 Annual fiber yield from an adult camel amounts to 840 g and its blending products with sheep wool have good market value. A model for camel eco-tourism has been developed at NRCC for promoting the camel. Indian Agriculture after Independence 148 4.8. Yak Yaks play multidimensional socio-cultural-economic role for the pastoral nomads, who rear yaks in high altitude Himalayan ranges, mainly for earning their nutritional and livelihood security. ICAR-NRC on yak established in 1989 works for conservation and improvement of yak for higher productivity and profitability in the country. The only breed of yak in India i.e., “Arunachali” was registered in 2018. The institute has developed NRC on yak has the privilege to produce First ET calf of yak named “MISMO” which was born on 27th June 2005 and later, first yak calf born through OPU-IVF on 27th July 2017 was named “NORGYAL” complete feed block, area specific mineral mixture and AI technology with frozen semen (average conception rate 65%) for sustained Yak production and rapid multiplication of superior germplasm. The first yak calf through AI was born on 7th July, 2006 in the institute. Selection of superior yak bulls and their maximization through AI technology is being practiced. This technology has been propagated and frozen yak semen straws are regularly distributed to AH Departments of yak rearing states for genetic improvement and reduce inbreeding. The protocol for production of embryo through in-vitro fertilization (IVF) of octytes retrieved with ultrasound guided ovum pickup (OPU) technique in yak is a significant development towards conservation and multiplication of elite yak germplasm in the country. The protocol for induction and synchronization of oestrus in Yak “Ovsynch protocol” was developed. Fifty-one varieties of fodder species received from FAO were tested at different altitude and seed setting was found reasonable for Dactylis, Vicia and Agrostis spp; three varieties of Salix were found to be suitable in this region. Number of products from yak milk viz. Yak milk whey beverages, Cheese, Functional paneer, Flavoured Churkam, Yak Mozzarella etc. and carpets/wall hangings, foot mats, jackets and other garments have been developed at the institute. 4.9. Mithun Mithun (Bos frontalis) or “gayal” is a unique bovine species playing central role in improving livelihoods of indigenous tribes of NEH region and symbol of prestige for local tribes. It is the state animal of Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. ICAR-National Research Centre (NRC) on Mithun, located at Medziphema, Nagaland, is the only Institute in the world fully dedicated to R&D and extension on this rare bovine. It is phylogenetically distinct from other Bos species: however based on phylogenetic analysis of mitochondrial genome of mithun, it has been found that Gaur and mithun have common origin from an extinct Bos species.