 In India, it is grown in Tamil Nadu. It is also found in various locations of Kerala, Assam and other states. 201 Nelumbium speciosum Indian lotus H-Kamal B-Padma M-Kamal G-Suriya Kamal Tel-Kalung T-Ambal Kan-Kamala Mal-Thamara O-Padam The leaves contains three alkaloids- nuciferine, roemerin and nor-nuciferin. The flowers are used for ornament and as offering in temples. Paste of rhizome is applied in ring worm and other cutaneous affections, carpels demulscent and nutritive and are used to check vomiting. The milky viscid juice of leaf and flower stalk is used in diarrhoea. Aquatic herb with stout, creeping rhizome found through out India, ascending up to 1800 m.It is native of China, Japan and possibly India. 202 Nerium indicum or N. odorum Indian oleander H-Kaner B-Karabi M-Kaneri G-Kagaer Tel-Kastouri Kan-kanagalu Mal-Areli O-Konera Roots, bark and seeds contain cardioactive glycosides. The principal cardiotonic substance present in the leaves is oleandrin. A paste of the root is used as external application in haemorrhoides, cancer and ulceration, and oil extracted from root bark is used in skin diseases. Fresh juice of leaves dropped into the eyes for inducing lachrymation in opthalmia. A large evergreen shrub with milky juice found in the Himalayas from Nepal west wards to Kashmir up to 950 m and in upper gangetic plains and Madhya Pradesh. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 366 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 203 Nerium oleander Oleander - The bark and flower posses cardio-tonic properties similar to leaves. The leaves of the plant are used in cutaneous eruptions. Decoction of leaves is used to destroy maggots infesting wounds. An evergreen glabrous shrub up to 6m high, native of Mediterranean region and extending as far as Iran. It is often grown in Indian gardens for ornament and also as fence and wind break. 204 Nicotiana tabacum Tobacco H-Tambaku B-Tambaku M-Tambaku G-Tambaku Tel-Pogaku T-Pugaiyilai Kar-Hogesoppu Mal-Pokala The bulk of tobacco produced in India is used for smoking in the form of cigarette, bidi,cigar, cheroot, chuttas and in pipe and hookah.It is used as a sedative, anti- spasmodic and vermifuge and in the treatment of various gaestro-intestinal disorder, skin diseases, and local affections. Stout viscid annual, 1 to 3 m high, unknown in the wild state at present. It was first grown for commercial purposes in Gujarat and Maharashtra. The important tobacco cultivated areas in India lie in Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal. 205 Nigella sativa Small funnel H-Kalonji B-Kalijira G-Kalonji Jeera Tel-Nellajeela Kaira T-Karumji ragam Kan- Karujirage Seeds are considered carminative, stimulent, diuretic, emmanagogue, galactagogue, and are used in the treatment of mild cases of puerperal fever.