 An attachment fitted with combine harvester uniformly broadcasts wheat seed and basal fertilizer during paddy harvesting followed by manual operation of mulching with the help of cutter-cum- spreader and applying light irrigation. In this technique, stubbles are harvested at 3-4 inches above the soil surface. The PAU experts have recommended 45 kg wheat seed and 65 kg DAP fertilizer application per acre at the time of sowing. Where such option is not available, farmers also broadcast the recommended seed and _ fertilizer manually in the field after harvesting of paddy with combine followed by cutting of stubbles with cutter- cum-spreader and irrigation. The Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana scientists have also developed a machine ‘Surface Seeder’ for direct sowing of wheat. It uniformly distributes wheat seed and _ fertilizer while simultaneously cut and spread the entire straw harvested with Super SMS loaded combine. This technique is very economical in managing paddy straw. Compared to existing residue management options, this method has benefits with respect to weed control, soil health as well as crop productivity along with economic benefits as costly machines and high-power tractors are not required in this technique. nd Wheat crop sown by surface seeding-cum-mulching technique in farmers field in Tarn Taran district Benefits of surface seeding As we know during 2022-23, thousands of farmers of Northern India including Punjab were affected with moderate to heavy lodging of wheat crop on large area due to torrential rain and hailstorms in the month of March. However, the farmers who opted for sowing of wheat by surface seeding method experienced less damage compared to other crop residue management practices and their crop resisted to lodging. As per scientists, this technique provides complete mulching, which keep the soil profile moist and saves the crop from terminal heat stress. Further, surface seeding of wheat develops fibrous root system on the upper layer of the soil. When plant is fully grown, fibrous root emerges from the ground a mat, thus holding the soil surface. These roots play pivotal role in stabilizing the plant to prevent lodging especially during adverse conditions like hailstorm, etc. The PAU scientists have listed several benefits of surface seeding over conventional methods of residue management, some of which are: e With this technique, straw management and sowing operation of wheat can be completed with a merge cost of 650 only compared to %2000-2500 per acre for conventional methods. e There isno need of costly machines and tractors with high ‘horse power’ for paddy straw management. e It meets out the concept of in-situ crop residue management that ensure healthy and porous soil system. S. Gurbachan Singh explaining about the root system on wheat plant sown by surface seeding method [*You can watch this on link https://www.facebook.