 (now Prayagraj) 1952 Agricultural and Food Engineering Department established at IIT Kharagpur, West Bengal. 1958 Grain Storage Research and Training Institute established at Hapur, UP. 1965 ICAR took over TL of ICJC and named as Jute Technological Research Laboratory (JTRL). 1966 ICAR took over ILRI and TL of ICCC and named as Cotton Technological Research Laboratory (CTRL). 1972 AICRP on Post-harvest Technology initiated and renamed in 2013 as AICRP on Post- harvest Engineering and Technology (PHET). 1975 AICRP on Farm Implements and Machinery initiated. 1976 Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering (CIAE) established at Bhopal. 1983 AICRP on Energy in Agriculture and Agro-based Industries initiated. 1986 Ginning Training Centre of CTRL established at Nagpur. 1987 AICRP on Utilization of Animal Energy with Enhanced System Efficiency initiated. 1988 Ministry of Food Processing industries set up. 1988 Agricultural Engineering Division established at ICAR Headquarter. Indian Agriculture after Independence 292 Year Milestone 1988 AICRP on Application of Plastic in Agriculture initiated and now renamed as AICRP on Plastic Engineering in Agricultural & Environment Management (PEASEM). 1989 Central Institute of Post-harvest Engineering and Technology established at Ludhiana. 1991 CTRL renamed as Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (CIRCOT), Mumbai. 1996 AICRP on Ergonomics & Safety in Agriculture initiated. 1998 JTRL renamed as National Institute of Research on Jute and Allied Fibres Technology (NIRJAFT). 2007 ILRI rechristened as Indian Institute of Natural Resins and Gums (IINRG). 2019 NIRJAFT renamed as National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering and Technology (NINFET). 5.1. Farm mechanization Indian agriculture is typified with small land holdings distributed in 2-3 parcels within a village or two which make introduction of mechanization unviable and against ‘economies of scale’ for individual ownership of farm machinery. The improved manual tools and animal drawn farm equipment on individual ownership basis are best suited to small farms mechanization. For high-capacity farm machinery custom hiring mechanism is the tried and tested model taking deeper roots in the rural areas and getting popular. The medium and large farms, however, prefer individually, the advanced high-capacity farm machinery. Though the degree of farm mechanization varies amongst the commodities and operations, the overall level of mechanization is about 47% in India. This could happen due to development and popularization of large number of self-propelled, power tiller/tractor operated implement and machinery. The technological advancements during last 75 years could be gauged from the fact that starting from a simple thresher in 1957 it reached to high capacity and energy efficient machinery such as laser guided land leveler, rotavator, planters, zero till drill, self-propelled rice transplanter, threshers and combine harvesters (pl see box).