 The technology of controlled breeding of carps with assured supply of quality seed of desired species, leading to complete shift from riverine seed collection, virtually steered the commercial carp polyculture of India and brought the country to the brink of the phenomenon ‘Blue Revolution’. The technology of this captive breeding was extended to widen the species spectrum with inclusion of several other important indigenous carps, catfishes and several other species of commercial value, and a few exotic species, and also improved further with use of different inducing agents like pituitary gland extract and several synthetic hormones for large-scale adoption by the farmers. In subsequent years, the technologies were improvised for mass-scale seed production with the successful development of eco-hatcheries. Today the country has been able to meet almost cent percent demand of carp seed and several states are even producing much higher seed than that required by those states. Of late, the brackishwater aquaculture also took a leap with shrimp as the lone commodity. Initially with the mass production of tiger shrimp seed in hatcheries, which dominated for almost over two decades (1985-2005), the industrial-scale shrimp farming in our coastal states could be a reality. Good numbers of hatcheries with low to very high capacities were established in the private sector in coastal India mainly in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. The industry further got a fillip with the introduction of Pacific white shrimp, with the seed requirement met from the same hatcheries. Success in development of breeding and seed production technologies of several important brackishwater and marine finfishes in recent years has further widened the scope of system diversification in both pond-based coastal aquaculture and open-sea cage farming in the country. Preface Although, aquaculture in India has been able to demonstrate consistent annual growth rate of over 6% during last three decades, the country has remained largely carp centric in fish production with over 80% contribution. While aquaculture in some of the top producing country involve more than 60 fish species, the commercial aqua-farming in the countries has been by and large confined to about a dozen of species. The need for species diversification has become quite inevitable not only for meeting the regional preference and increasing profitability of the farmers, but also for tackling the issues of increasing disease threat on farming of particular species, facilitating the conservation measures of several threatened endemic species, meeting emerging demand for species with short-production cycle, increasing species spectrum in polyculture systems, and bringing high value species under diversified farming systems.