 In addition, credit intensity plays a catalytic role to build the small-scale, agro-processing sector. Initially, the high-value crops have a high-input cost. To gain access to loans for agricultural diversiﬁcation, this ﬁnancing option is also useful for promoting the small- scale, agro-processing sector occasionally. Agricultural diversiﬁcation towards high-value commodities is aided by urbanization. Demand-side factors have been pushing agricultural diversiﬁcation in recent years, not only in India, but also around the globe. Rapid economic growth and development, as well as rising income levels in both urban and rural areas, result in an increased demand for high-value commodities, such as fruits and vegetables, and livestock goods, such as milk and meat. 4. Conclusions The study revealed that India’s agricultural sector is gradually diversifying in favor of high-value commodities, such as fruits, vegetables, vegetable oils, and oilseeds. These improvements were neglected because of their small share of the gross value of agricultural produces. Besides, the government only provided minor or no support for much of the diversiﬁcation. Traditional crops were mostly produced in response to consumer demand, whereas the ‘green revolution’ was driven by supply. It could be seen that food security is still a major concern in India. In this study, we found that there is crop diversiﬁcation rather than crop concentration in the country. Initially, crop diversiﬁcation was not very high in Indian agricultural practices. On average, since the year 2000, the agricultural diversiﬁcation index has improved. However, while there has been an increase in crop diversity throughout our study, the rate of agricultural diversiﬁcation has not been signiﬁcant across the entire country. Most agricultural-infrastructural parameters, such as irrigation intensity, fertilizer intensity, total road length, and credit intensity, have a positive impact on the diversiﬁcation process, except cropping intensity. Natural phenomena (rainfall deviation), along with demand-side factors such, as growing urban population and rising per-capita income, inﬂuence the process positively. All the determinates are signiﬁcant, except irrigation intensity and urban population. Usage of fertilizer and irrigation infrastructure are the Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 16 of 18 main predictors of crop diversiﬁcation, while other factors are determined to have little effect in the country. However, shreds of evidence from multiple states revealed that states diversifying in favor of non-cereals or high-value crops outperformed states specializing in traditional products, such as cereals, in terms of growth. In addition, the relative return or proﬁtability of high-value commodities to farmers, in comparison to other crops, had an important inﬂuence on deﬁning diversiﬁcation status. There is a large effect of diversiﬁcation on employment generation and export earnings.