 Biomass based decentralized power generation system The grid electricity supply in rural areas is characterized by unreliable supply, fluctuating voltage, and shortage of power in most parts of India. Coal-based power plants (accounting for 70% of electric power generation) are leading to environmental degradation and global warming. Hence, there is need for decentralized and renewable energy-based options to meet the rural energy needs in a sustainable way. Among all the available renewable energy sources, biomass is considered as the largest, most diverse and readily exploitable resource. In India, the biomass gasifier is an option among different bio-energy technologies for meeting the rural domestic electricity needs as well as for agricultural and rural industrial activities. Biomass gasification involves partial combustion of biomass under controlled air supply, leading to generation of producer gas. It constitutes the combustible gases like hydrogen (20%), carbon monoxide (20%) and methane (1-2%). The energy value of producer gas is about 5.0 MJ m-3. The producer gas can be used as a fuel for internal combustion engines for mechanical and electrical applications. Biomass gasifier systems based on woody biomass, raised on wastelands have the largest potential to meet rural electricity needs in most parts of Fig. 3. Power operated charcoal briquetting machine Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 112 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR India. The small size of gasifiers can be installed at community scale or at road side dhabas saving about 20-30% of fire wood per installation. The decentralized biomass gasifier-based power generation system can provide electricity for lighting, drinking water, irrigation water and flour-milling services in rural areas (Fig. 4). A 20 kW gasifier engine generator based system can meet all the electricity needs of a village of about 200 people. 3.1.4. Bio-char production Bio-char is a carbonaceous material produced by pyrolysis of biomass. It is increasingly recognized for its potential role in fuel, carbon sequestration, soil amendments and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is a stable carbon rich solid that can be used to lock carbon in the soil. Bio-char is of increasing interest because of concerns about climate change caused by emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHG). Biomass feedstock and the processing conditions are the main factors determining quality of charred material. The major constituents of the charred material are organic matter, volatile matter, mineral matter (ash), and moisture. The use of bio-char as soil amendment is proposed as an approach to mitigate man-induced climate change along with improving soil productivity. In order to sequester carbon, a material must have long residence time and should be resistant to chemical processes such as oxidation to CO2 or reduction to methane.