 Cotton: Farmers having irrigation facilities are advised to take up sowing of Bt.Cotton during second fortnight of May. 232 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS KERALA General Advisory: Follow strict personal hygiene and biosecurity measures in homes and farm to prevent spread. Follow personal hygiene including cough etiquette, social distancing and frequent hand washing in farm amongst laborers. SMS (SOAP- MASK- SOCIAL DISTANCING) are the three key words to be remembered by the farmers. Arrange the farm inputs together by farmers groups to avoid over exposure of farmers. During field preparation and nursery preparation manage the labourers in such a way so as to avoid overcrowding. Hand sanitization and other COVID related protocols need to be followed at all stages. Agricultural Advisory: Conserve water in surface and sub surface horizons of soil which in turn address drought related issues in coconut, arcanut, pepper, cocoa, nutmeg etc. Use Gypsum to manage soil acidity by blending with conventional soil ameliorants to manage the acidity in deeper sub surface layers of soil in all surface feeders like Rice, Coconut, Vegetables, Spices like Pepper, Cardamom, Banana to have pesticide free produce. Paddy fallow: Take up pulse crop to exploit residual moisture after second crop paddy and also to improve the fertility status and bio mass accumulation in our wet lands to sustain the productivity to be made possible. Paddy: In dry / wet direct seeded paddy fields, land preparation can be done on the receipt of pre monsoon showers. Addition of soil ameliorants, preferably lime or dolomite @ 2 kg/ cent as initial split should be made mandatory along with first ploughing. Crop residues should be well incorporated into the soil during first ploughing and FYM can be reduced to 50 % of the above dosage. Seeds should be treated with P.fluorescens @10 g/ kg of seeds before sowing for 12 hrs. Avail the facilities of Custom Hiring Centres for Seed cum fertilizer drills, which will be cost effective and saves seeds. Weed control using cono weeder/ power weeder. 233 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Pulses: Harvested pulses should be properly stored as there is a disruption in food supply chain due to lock down. Ensure pre drying of the crop and proper drying under sun / shade for adequate period. Grains to be used for seeds in next season should preferably be treated with neem-based products or chemicals for proper storing. Amorphophallus: On receipt of premonsoon showers, plant corm pieces of 1 kg after treating with slurry of cowdung and trichoderma in the pits applied with FYM @ 2.5 kg/pit. Mulching with dry/ green leaves should be done for proper crop establishment. Tapioca: For Tapioca, setts should be planted before the onset of SW monsoon. Plough land thouroughly on receipt of pre monsoon showers and prepare mounds at a height of 1 feet (30 cm) for ensuring drainage Lime @ 50 g and FYM @ 1 kg / mount can be incorporated before planting of setts.