5 Promotion of technologies covering Gender concerns Gender-related technology promotion programs conducted Number 11 12 15 20 25 * Efficient Functioning of the RFD System 5 Timely submission of Draft for Approval On-time submission Date 0 Timely submission of Results On- time submission Date Finalize a Strategic Plan Finalize the Strategic Plan for next 5 years Date * Improving Internal Efficiency / responsiveness / service delivery of Ministry / Department 6 Develop RFDs for all Responsibility Centers (Subordinate Offices, Attached Offices, Autonomous Bodies) Implementation of Sevottam Percentage of RCs covered % Create a Sevottam compliant to implement, monitor and review Citizen's Charter Date Create a Sevottam Compliant system to redress and monitor public Grievances Date Independent Audit of Implementation of Citizen's Charter %  of 20 Independent Audit of implementation of public grievance redressal system %  of 20 Section 4: Description and definition of success indicators and proposed measurement methodology for 2010-2011 Objective 1: With respect to strengthening the frontier research for enhancing agriculture production and productivity, it is stipulated to develop a programme on climate resilient agriculture initiative as the main programme in the target period. The programme conceptualization is envisaged to be completed by end of June 2010. Objective 2: With respect to improving soil health and water use efficiency, and farm machinery and agricultural processing, the action points/success indicators cover technologies developed in natural resource management and agricultural engineering fields. The emphasis on natural resource management is laid to ensure efficient use of natural resources under the changing situations and climate change. This can be equally supported by appropriate new engineering technologies and tools. Objective 3: With respect to conservation of genetic resources for sustainable use, it is envisaged to conserve plant, animal, fish and microbe genetic resources to have a repository and their evaluation. This will support development of varieties, breeds, strains for different agro-eco regions. Objective 4: With respect to production management, and disease diagnostics/ management and value addition, this is identified as the key objective of the Department. The actions will cover all aspects of crops, livestock/poultry and fisheries, and the success indicators are optimization of region-specific feeding schedules; development of diagnostics and vaccines, value added products and post harvest technologies. Objective 5: With respect to enhancing pulse and oil seed productivity the main thrust is on development of varieties for biotic and abiotic stress tolerance and increasing availability of breeder seed.