 He advocated that the India’s progress was dependent on rural economy (Pandey 2008). Presently about 65% of our population still lives in rural areas, most of who live in poverty, while the rest of the country has shown exceptional progress. The Mahatma gave importance to self-sufficiency (Atma Nirbharatha) and felt that rural under-development is the cause for poverty. He used to quote “life should not be a pyramid with apex sustained by the bottom” in his speeches. He emphasized that life is an oceanic circle with individuals as center. Everyone should be ready to sacrifice for the whole unit. His concept was entirely based on sacrifice. From its inception, ICAR has always worked with commitment for the rural development and many horticultural technologies have helped the farmers to find livelihood and promote employment in rural parts of the country. Generating employment opportunities in different sectors by collectively identifying the areas and planning accordingly to materialize the concept of Atma Nirbhar Bharat is one of the major focuses of ICAR. 2.2. Gandhiji’s Experiments with Nutrition and Diet He laid serious emphasis on the quality of food taken by an individual and he conducted diet- related experiments either on himself or tested at his ashram. His experimentation with diet began early. At the age of 18, he began eating only unfired (uncooked) foods (Rivets 1959). The range of Gandhi’s experiments in the arena of diets varied. His interest in the use of orange peels for preparing jams and murabbas are similar to that of present-day dieticians. His strict regimen of two meals a day mostly comprised of fruits and vegetables. The story of Mahatma nursing his wife Kasturba with dal, milk and green vegetables has been mentioned by various authors. In his book, Key to Health, he wrote, “Whilst it is true that man cannot live without air and water, the thing that nourishes the body is food. Hence Gandhiji with Sardar Vallabhai Patel. His intake of food was mainly comprised of fruits and fresh vegetables. Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 16 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR the saying, food is life” (Gandhi, 1948). His preference was vegetarian food. Gandhi’s diet mainly comprised of salads,curd, fresh fruits, unpolished rice, millets, pulses, jaggery and dry fruits. 3. Contributions of ICAR in Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security To realize the dreams of the Mahatma in rural development and nutritional security, the horticultural institutes of ICAR have taken proactive measures to ensure food, nutrition and livelihood security in the nation and have contributed significantly to enhancing the availability of nutritious food and providing employment opportunities to the rural population. These institutes train farmers in sustainable farming, enhancing profitability, water resource management and farming techniques.