 y The Directorate has registered 35 unique germplasm of 9 species with National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, New Delhi. Indian Horticulture 8 y Process developed for microencapsulation of extracts of Andrographis paniculata (King of bitters) and Cassia angustifolia. y Process developed for anthocyanin rich microencapsulated product from Garcinia indica fruit juice. y Developed improved protocol to obtain callus in endangered plant guggal (Commiphora wightii). y A low-cost organic growing media was prepared from waste biomass and low-grade mineral powder for kalmegh seedling production. y Process for isolation of high value molecules namely- mangostin and xanthochymol was developed. y Two phytoformulations F5 and F10 developed for control of acaricide resistant ticks were found effective in experimentally challenged and naturally highly infested animals. Technologies developed Protocols developed for seed standards and seed testing in medicinal plants: Protocol for minimum seed standards and seed testing of 25 medicinal plants has been developed and notified for undertaking detailed studies on germination ecology and studies on seed development and maturation. Tulsi cultivation as a trap crop for male fruit fly management and livelihood security y Tulsi (Ocimmum sanctum L.) comprises methyl eugenol as major constituent that acts as a pheromone precursor which is attractive to male fruit flies and is used in insect traps to attract certain species of fruit flies. y Being a rich source of methyl eugenol (82.81%), tulsi can be introduced in fruits (mango and guava) and vegetables (cucurbits) orchard as an intercrop to act as a trap crop for male fruit fly. y Tulsi can be successfully integrated into existing farming systems (as an intercrop) as one of the viable options for enhancing income (` 41000/ha) of poor farmers and suitable trap crop for fruit fly management. Shatavari: A suitable option for intercrop in perennial orchards to harness root yield and shatavrin IV content y The plants were grown under different green shade net intensity (SNI) (0, 25, 50, 75 and 90%) and harvested at three different times (6, 12 and 18 months of transplanting). The maximum number of stems/ plants, stem weight, root length, root diameter, fresh root weight and dry root weight were observed under 0% SNI followed by 25% SNI. y Shatavarin IV content was maximum (8.53 µg/g) in plants under 25% SNI. This study indicates that shatavari could be cultivated as an intercrop (25% SNI) for fetching higher shatavarin IV content without causing significant root yield loss. Method for multi-mycotoxin analysis in Indian medicinal herbs y This study reports a method to estimate nine regulated mycotoxins in Indian medicinal plants including giloy (Tinospora cordifolia), ashwagandha (Withania somnifera), safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum), satavari (Asparagus racemosus) and tulsi (Ocimum sanctum).