 Was there any methodology available during that period to differentiate events MON 531 and BNLA 60I (BN Bt event)? No methodology to differentiate different events of CrylAc was known to us at that juncture. 16. Which institution identified MIs Awasthagen for outsourcing and who signed the "30 agreement? Dr. Anand Kumar, Director, NRCPB, New Delhi suggested to outsource for analysis of flanking sequences of BN Bt event through MIs Avesthagen. Order was placed from CICR, Nagpur. 17. Was the information supplied by MIs Awasthagen regarding flanking sequence, event specific primers ofBNLA 601 event etc., correct and working? Test not carried out at Dharwad and report was sent to Dr. Anand Kumar, Director, NRCPB, New Delhi. 18. When did you know that the infonnation supplied by MIs Awasthagen was not correct? Came to know only after the complete molecular analysis of purified BN Bt hy Dr. Anand Kumar in October, 2011. 3\ - - - - - - - - - - - 19. What were the steps taken to rectifY the procedure in the development of BNLA 60 I event after knowing that the information supplied by MIs Awasthagen is not correct? Dr. Anand Kumar identified new flanking sequences of BNLA601 event through molecular analysis. 20. Was the non-Bt BN check in different RCGMlGEAC trials same or different from that ofBN used for transformation? The quantity of non BN Bt seed was limited, hence, seeds of other sources was also used as check in RCGM and GEAC trials. 21. Dr BM Khadi, When did you carry BN Bt materials from UAS, Dharwad to CICR, Nagpur? Please specify the generation and quantity of the material. Did you carry only this material or some other material also? What was done with this material at CICR? The BN Bt material of about 35-40 seeds was obtained from VAS, Dharwad. This material was of 2004-05 produce (f3). This material was used to compare with CICR transgenic material at CICR, Nagpur. 22. Dr Khadi, was the breeding work shifted to CICR Nagpur from UAS, Dharwad after your joining at CICR? No Sir, the conversion of elite varieties and parental lines ofUAS and State was continued at UAS, Dharwad. And conversion of nationally important varieties and parental lines of hyhrids was initiated and continued at CICR, Nagpur. 23. Dr Khadi, do you think, there was contamination or something else happened? Where and when there was possibility of contamination? Please be specific about the time when you came to know about contamination? Yes Sir, I believe it is only due to contamination. I really don't know whether contamination was intentional or natural. The contamination must have occurred at Dharwad. It is rather difficult to specify the time of contamination. I was informed about the contamination 2-3 months before the DDG(CS) meeting (Dec, 2009), and immediately this was brought to the notice of the concerned scientists. 24. Dr Khadi, did Dr. K.R.