 Gandhian Philosophy on Animal Husbandry Animal Ethics, as proposed by world countries, focuses on the use of animals for the intensive production of milk and meat and eggs and poultry, extensive production of feedstuffs for animals, and impacts on the environment due to intensive and concentrated production. The welfare of animals is an important underlying concept and need to be addressed in an animal husbandry unit. Gandhian philosophy on animal ethics is totally different from the normal animal ethics around the world. He spent nearly 30 years on elaborating an economically viable and religiously conforming animal husbandry system. He had a very strong conviction and ethical and moral principle that animals should never be slaughtered for meat purposes. He wanted that a scheme to recognize this on a national scale should be initiated. Gandhiji’s critical interpretation of cow- protection, advocated by Hinduism, leads to a general reflection on the duty of non-violence. The approach, adopted by Gandhiji, in solving the problem of cow-protection focuses on its practical dimensions and is based primarily on reforming animal husbandry. Mother cow is, in many ways, better than the mother who gave us birth. Our mother gives us milk for a couple of years but cows offer milk to human kind year after year till near the end. Gandhiji further stated, “I would not kill a human being for protection of a cow, as I will not kill a cow for saving a human life, be it ever so precious”. In his total commitment to nonviolence, Gandhiji always included the animals, stating, “The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.” 2.6. Gandhiji on Cooperative Farming Mahatma Gandhi’s experiences with cooperative farming started during his stay in South Africa. The ‘Phoenix Settlement’ and the ‘Tolstoy Farm’ are the two of his early experiments. In the Phoenix Settlement each member of the society were to cultivate three acres of land given to his family. This concept was started to avoid uncultivable land due to absentee land- owners. Tolstoy Farm was a rehabilitation settlement of the families affected by the South African freedom struggle during that period and the method of operation was similar to the Phoenix Settlement. There were 77 multi-religious members in the Tolstoy Farm who were assigned jobs including farming, carpentry, manufacturing and other such activities. These experiences and experiments helped him to develop the model he adopted in Sabarmati Ashram at a later stage. Observing the distress of small and marginal farmers due to poverty and debt, Gandhiji felt, “cooperation among the peasants is an absolute necessity for their prosperity”. Cooperatives, according to his philosophy, will help to battle against the difficulties faced due to capitalism and other common enemies for the betterment of the livelihood of its members. He believed also cooperation was one of the important means to empower people.