 Manipur: Projects have been sanctioned of the Manipur state to the implementing agencies under NBHM during 2020-21 to 2022-23. The amount sanctioned to the agencies is ` 132.59 Lakhs and fund release to the agencies is ` 84.04 Lakhs. Sikkim: Projects have been sanctioned of the Sikkim state to the implementing agencies under NBHM during 2020-21 to 2022-23. The amount sanctioned to the agency is ` 21.74 Lakhs and total sanctioned fund release to the agency. 17 Districts of NE States have been allotted to NAFED and NDDB for formation of FPOs of Beekeepers/ Honey Producers under the scheme entitled “Formation and Promotion of 10,000 new Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs)” of Govt. of India. For further interaction, please write to: 1Additional Commissioner (Hort.) and 2Executive Director (National Bee Board) Department of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 02. Horticulture Specialist, CIH, Medziphema, Nagaland Email: directorcih-ngl@gov.in Honey Production in NE States, mt (2021-22) Number of Honeybees colonies registered from NE States on Madhukranti November–December 2023 105 Technology Emerging Pests of Horticultural Crops in Northeast and its Management The horticulture sector is a shining beacon making a vast contribution to the rapidly growing Indian Economy. It supports the sustainable livelihood of many fruit and vegetable farmers. In addition, it also provides employment opportunities through post-harvest value addition to SHGs, entrepreneurs, rural youth, women, etc., across the country. The NE region is home to many unique and underutilised fruits and vegetables, besides many GI-tagged fruits, cash crops and spices. It contains over one-third of the country’s total fruit diversity. Such a wide range of economically important horticultural crops are infested by various insect pests, hampering their production and lowering their productivity. Changing climate and cultural practices are a few factors leading to the emergence of many insect species as pests causing economic damage. They include invasive insects alien to the country that could threaten the biodiversity of the region and are polyphagous, capable of feeding on new hosts. Since the NE region is promoted as an organic hub of the country, thrust is given to organic pest management practices to manage these pests. Arati Ningombam1*, Romila Akoijam1, Aruna Beemrote1, Ajit Kumar Ningthoujam2, Sushmita Thokchom3 and Susheel Kumar Sharma4 T HE Indian Horticulture scenario is vibrant and thriving. It makes a very significant contribution to the Indian economy. The production of horticultural crops breaks new records every year, and the productivity of horticultural crops is much higher than that of food grains (12.49 tonnes/ha against 2.23 tonnes/ha.). Its productivity and profitability have surpassed that of agricultural crops. India is the second-largest producer of fruits and vegetables.