6 Indemnity bond: An Indemnity Bond duly executed by the President/Chairperson, Secretary of the NGO, Surety and two witnesses have to be submitted along with Agreement when such an NGO is being considered for granting of a KVK. The format for indemnity bond is annexed (Appendix IV). 6.1.7 Mortgage of land: In case of NGO, the land of the selected site has to be mortgaged in favour of ICAR for sanctioning of KVK. The type of mortgage will be ‘simple mortgage’ which is required to be registered. The cost involved in registration of mortgage deed will be equally shared between the concerned NGO and ICAR. The format of mortgage deed in respect of the proposed land for the establishment of KVK as well as schedule of land is annexed (Appendix V). 6.1.8 Sanctioning of KVK: After fulfillment of all essential formalities and submission of necessary documents only, orders conveying sanction of the competent authority regarding the establishment of KVK shall be issued. Along with the sanction order, the staffing pattern, AUC format, budgetary allocation, terms and conditions for grants, a copy of MOU/Agreement duly executed will be conveyed. Once the KVK is sanctioned, the concerned ZPD should give wider publicity to the new KVK of the district. 6.1.9 Additional KVK in the district: During XI Plan, one additional KVK each in 50 selected large districts was approved to have effective dissemination of new technologies in the district. The criteria followed for establishment of additional KVK in selected districts are: (i) Large rural population (ii) Bigger geographical area (iii) Higher net sown area (iv) More tribal/SC/ST population (v) Relative backwardness (vi) Mountainous (above 5000 ft MSL) and difficult/border areas 6.1.10 Sense of belongingness of KVK by the host organization: Host organizations should have the pride of ownership and possessiveness of KVKs, as they are meant for helping the farming community, which will enhance the popularity and visibility of the host organization in the district. Therefore, the following recommendations are made to inculcate a sense of belongingness towards KVKs among the host organizations; 83 Administrative Guidelines ●Available financial provisions of ICAR shall be supplemented by the host organizations to develop the KVK infrastructure in such way that the farm is a miniature of the agro-climatic situation of the district with all the representative crops and enterprises. ●Investment and effective involvement should come from the top leadership in host organization for implementation of activities of KVKs. ●Promote interface in different blocks and villages of the district through KVKs to generate goodwill among the farming community at district level. Further, host organization should strengthen the communication strategy by involving innovative and progressive farmers to create public awareness for owning the KVK by different stakeholders in the district. 6.1.