*Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. (Volume I) Indian Horticulture 18 K K Srivastava, Dinesh Kumar and S Rajan* Increasing mango productivity through high density planting Despite being the world leader in mango production, India's productivity is low (9.7 MT/ha) in comparison to Brazil's 12.50 MT/ha. Mango's low output is due to inadequate orchard floor management, sparse planting density, poor canopy control, and lack of training, pruning, nutrient, and water management practices. Furthermore, due to the long gestation period and late orchard income, the present generation is unwilling to adopt mango cultivation. On the other hand, the introduction of dwarf, high and regular yielding cultivars, as well as high density planting strategies, have opened up new commercial options for mango production. Technology High density planting system Planting systems with a high density allow for a greater number of plants per unit area. Mango trees are normally planted 10 meters apart, with only 100 plants per hectare. When compared to the HDP system, these plants starts late bearing, while per plant yield is high and total yield per unit area is low. In northern India, UHDP is possible with the 'Amrapali' variety at 2.5×2.5 m spacing (1600 plants per hectare), whereas HDP is planted at 5×5 m spacing (400 plants per hectare). HDP orchards require regular pruning and canopy management strategies to keep the canopy under control.