 Any third party using logos and names of ICAR for promoting their product, services, institutions shall make sure that the name of ICAR doesn’t get defamed due to their actions and also they shall indemnify and keep indemnified the ICAR and its constituting bodies from any claims, loss or damages that may be caused to anybody due to actions of the said third party that has been granted permission to use the name of logo of ICAR   GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 15 Design and content For ICAR Headquarters Back: Bar code/QR code Front: Photo GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 16 Design and content For ICAR Institutes Back: Bar code/QR code Front: Photo GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 17 Annexure – III Features and Specifications for Personal Visiting Cards yy Material of card: Card sheet 200 gsm or better, any sheet of biodegradable material with sufficient stiffness and printability. Plastic sheets should be avoided. yy Size: 9.2 × 5.5 cm yy Design and content is given below: Front: Front: Back: Back: For ICAR Headquarters For ICAR Institutes GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 18 Annexure – IV Features and Specifications for Official Letter Heads (a) For ICAR Headquarters, ICAR-KVKs and for Institutes that do not have independent logo GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 19 (b) For Institute that have logo GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 20 Annexure – V Model Terms of Reference (ToR) Empanelment of press and media communication specialist(s) 1. Introduction It was felt that there is a need for empanelment of press and media communication specialists. The issue of publicity and dissemination of information for the benefit of public at large was discussed in the meeting and it was felt that the ICAR being a scientific organization, there is an inherent deficiency of Content Writer who can communicate ICAR achievements in non-scientific and easy to understand language. The objectives is to enhance the agricultural communication and awareness in the country at grass-root level by empanelling press and media communication specialists for dissemination of ICAR achievements in non-scientific and easy to understand language. 2. Objectives The press and media communication specialists are to collate the agricultural research information generated from the entire NARS, get the same edit and design the news items in non-scientific and easy to understand language for print and e-mode including social media platforms i.e. Facebook, Twitter, Youtube Channel etc. The broad objectives of communication specialists are: yy Strengthening of agricultural communication in the country yy Collation of information received from all ICAR Institutes, SAUs, KVKs and other resources viz; News, events, success stories, conferences, technologies developed, awareness, publicity etc. yy Editing and designing of the content (including images) as per requirement of print media, electronic media and social media platforms i.e.