 Transplanting may be done any time in day as compared to the afternoon hours transplanting in traditional nursery raised seedlings as there is less root damage. SUMMARY Production of good quality vegetable seedlings ensures high yield and quality. The seedlings raised in unscientific manner have poor germination, and are infested by insects, pests and diseases. This often results in increased mortality of seedlings when they are planted in the main field, and subsequently farmers realize low yield. The advent of scientific nursery growing techniques has opened new vistas for growing healthy vegetable seedlings with less effect from biotic and abiotic stresses. Such innovative techniques are facilitating the growers in producing higher yield and fetching remunerative prices. The high-tech nursery opened new window for raising healthy vegetable nursery round the year under soilless medium commercially. For further interaction, please write to: S N S Chaurasia (Principal Scientist and I/c Head), Division of Crop Production, ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: chaurasiaiivr@gmail.com in the center of the cell of the pro tray/ plug tray for sowing the vegetable seeds. 3. One seed per cell is sown and covered with medium either by hand or automatic seeding machines. 4. Coco peat with 300 to 400% moisture is used and hence no immediate irrigation is required until germination. 5. The entire stack will be covered using a polyethylene sheet to ensure the conservation of moisture until germination. The stacked trays are spread once the germination commences avoiding etiolation. 6. The trays are shifted to the net house on germination of seedlings and spread over the beds/ plate form. 7. The trays are irrigated lightly every day depending upon the prevailing weather conditions by using a fine sprinkling rose can or with a hose pipe fitted with a rose. Drenching the trays with fungicides as a precautionary measure against seedling mortality is also being done. 8. Spraying of 0.3% (3 g/litre) water-soluble fertilizer using poly feed (NPK- 19:19:19 with trace elements) twice (12 and 20 days after sowing) is practiced to enhance the growth of the seedlings. 9. The trays are provided with protective cover from rain by covering with polyethylene sheets in the form of a low tunnel whenever it rains. 10. The seedlings at the right stage of planting are hardened by withholding irrigation and reducing the shade before transplanting or selling to the growers. Shri M. Sankara Rao is a marginal farmer, belonging to a remote village of Naiduvalasa of Rambadrapuram Mandal of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. He is an ex-trainee of KVK, Vizianagaram. Having gained knowledge and skill in nursery, he established nursery unit with “mini-shade net” under the technical guidance of KVK faculty.