 The essential communication technologies employed in SIS are classified into two types (short- and long-range communication technologies): (1) the devices that function as sensor nodes and lead to transmitting data at small distances and have low energy consumption, and (2) the other devices are the ones that can forward massive data over long distances, having high-energy consumption [193]. Examples of short-range wireless communication technologies are Bluetooth, ZigBee, Z-wave, and Wi-Fi, which have transmission ranges between 1 and 500 m. These technologies are utilized in smart irrigation systems due to their low power consumption and short distance coverage, making them unsuitable. Examples of long-range communication technologies are cellular networks such as 1G, 2G (e.g., GSM and GPRS), 3G (e.g., UMTS), 4G (e.g., LTE), and 5G are widely used despite their high energy consumption. However, these cellular networks are greedy regarding energy consumption and could be more efficient regarding infrastructure costs [209]. Furthermore, low-power wide area networks (LPWAN) are other long-range communication networks that offer solutions to the challenges the above communication technologies face in WSN and IoT applications. Generally, there are two categories of LPWAN: unlicensed (such as LoRa and Sigfox) and licensed (including long-term evolution machine-type communications and narrow-band IoT) [211]. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 29 of 40 Figure 9. Role of data communication systems in smart irrigation technology (A: field; B: soil moisture sensors; C: water pump; D: water delivery system, i.e., filter, flow meter, and automatic valves for different zones; E: power storage system; F: solar panels; G: control system; H: data communication and sharing tower; and I: incoming and outgoing signals; and J: end user/farmer via computer and mobile application). 3.5. Role of Artificial Intelligence (AI) in Irrigation Water Saving In this modern era, AI has revolutionized almost every industry and is becoming a game-changer in irrigation, offering a variety of ways to save water and improve efficiency. AI systems can help expedite and refine irrigation decision-making, particularly in response to climate change. The application of AI in agriculture, particularly to improve the efficiency of irrigation water use, is an increasingly important area of research and development [212–215]. AI has already engendered digital transformation in the water management sector by providing insights and synthesis of real-time data analytics to make informed decisions. With AI-based predictions, applications (See Section 3) have been developed to monitor crop health, detect disease proliferation, and optimize resource utilization.