 Insect resistance genes from Cajanus platycarpus against Helicoverpa armigera: Cajanus platycarpus is one of the non-crossable wild relatives of pigeonpea possessing resistance to polyphagous insect Helicoverpa armigera. Hence, C. platycarpus was used for understanding the mechanism of resistance to H. armigera and identification of candidate genes to mitigate the menace of the herbivore. RNA-seq and differential gene expression analysis were carried out between C. platycarpus and cultivated pigeonpea cultivar TTB7, at different time points after challenge with the insect larvae. Fifteen herbivory response-specific genes with >2-fold differential expressions have been selected. These genes with probable role in: (i) insect structural destruction, (ii) interference in digestion, (iii) reduction in availability of nutrients, and (iv) transcription factors have been shortlisted for validation. These putative insect resistance genes have been cloned from C. platycarpus into binary vectors and are being validated in Nicotiana tabacum. QTL mapping of drought stress tolerance in chickpea: Genotyping-by-Sequencing approach was used for the large scale SNP discovery and simultaneous genotyping of recombinant inbred lines (RILs) of an intraspecific mapping population (Pusa 362 × SBD 377) of chickpea contrasting for drought related traits. The chickpea genome annotation project database was used to delineate the location of the GBS derived 3,267 SNPs in the genomic regions: intergenic, genic (exons), intragenic (introns) and UTRs. The occurrence of both types of transitions—C/T and A/G – was higher than any of the transversions. The SNP genotyping data was utilized to construct one of the most saturated intra- specific genetic linkage maps of chickpea having 3,267 SNPs on 8 linkage groups. The map was utilized to identify 15 quantitative trait loci (QTLs) associated with drought traits (membrane stability index, relative water content, seed weight and yield under stress condition) accounting for phenotypic variations ranging from 11.8% to 27.1%. Molecular diversity in jackfruit: A set of primer sequences from SSR flanking regions were identified for the validation of SSRs in a jackfruit germplasm set. Primer sets for 200 genic-SSRs have been custom synthesized in jackfruit for their validation, and molecular characterization of the 224 jackfruit accessions collected primarly from Jharkhand was carried out using these SSR markers. A total of 81 alleles were detected in 224 jackfruit accessions by using 27 SSR markers. The number of alleles ranged from 2 to 4, with an average of 3 alleles per locus. In population structure studies significant, genetic admixing was observed in the jackfruit accessions. Phenomics for abiotic stress breeding in field crops: Phenomics was used to identify germplasm and breeding lines with high water use efficiency (WUE) and drought tolerance in the major food crops.