 ● The Deans may update and oversee the information at least once in a year and the nodal officers of the Universities every quarterly in a systematic manner. ● Event-wise information has to be updated as and when the events take place, month-wise. This was followed by a brief presentation by Dr C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) outlining the guidelines governing the ICAR Development Grant. He specially mentioned the following points. ● A copy of the instructional materials such as practical manuals available for different courses must be sent to the office of the DDG (Edn.), INTERACTIVE SESSION – II (25 June 2010 at 2:30 pm to 4:30 pm) Themes : Critical areas of infrastructure and faculty training Chairman : Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Co-Chairmen : Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.), ICAR Dr P. Raghava Redy, Vice-chancellor, ANGRAU, Hyderabad Rapporteurs : Dr D.M.Hegde, Director, DOR, Hyderabad Dr Dharmeswar Das, Dean & Joint Director (Acad.), IVRI, Izatnagar 12 ICAR so that a national level manual could be prepared with the help of experts. The expenditure on their preparation will be met on actual basis. ● Constant re-orientation of courses keeping in mind the market demand and global scenario be done. ● Civil works be restricted to only construction of girls hostel, international hostel, examination hall, sports complex, museum as per the approved plan. ● There is need for level-playing in expenditure so that per capita expenditure on UG/PG education across agricultural universities is at par. The Chairman called for uniformity in the nomenclature of different faculties, specialized courses, departments and also colleges. This was followed by presentation by Deans of different agricultural universities from various States. The discussion centred around on admissions, academic activities and facilities. It was also requested to suggest measures to make the system more effective by giving importance for maintenance of buildings and field facilities. 13 In the opening remarks, DG emphasized that we must not loose sight of the long term vision to promote quality education in agriculture across the country. He cautioned against sporadic opening of colleges and departments without proper planning. He cited the area of funding to Biotechnology in colleges in that context. It was also emphasized that keeping in view the demand, funds could be sought for modernization of instructional farms, training programmes such as water management etc. Following are some areas of funding and support required from ICAR as per the interaction from various Deans of SAUs.