 The polyculture technology of these fishes has been demonstrated to small-scale farmers, which have triggered the diversification in the brackishwater aquaculture system. The demonstration of the technologies of organic farming of shrimp for higher value realization and biofloc-based shrimp farming for increasing production has also created great interest among the farmers in recent years. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 56 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 2.3. Technology Development in Mariculture Mariculture in India has been limited to small-scale farming of seaweeds, edible oysters and mussel on the west coast for a long period. The traditional farming of seaweed Gracilaria edulis and Gelidiella acerosa, in the coastal waters of Tamil Nadu were catering to the requirement of the food industry, pharmaceutical and marine biomolecule production to a certain extent. Of late the introduction of exotic seaweed species Kappaphycus alvarezii, however, has broadened the scope of seaweed farming in the country. The country is now looking for large- scale farming of seaweed and has developed a roadmap to become one of the major seaweed producing countries under the recently launched Prime Minister Matshya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) of Department of Fisheries, Government of India. The edible oyster Crassostrea madrasensis is being farmed along the south Indian coast. Among the marine mussels, green mussel, Perna viridis and the brown mussel P. indicus are also cultured along the southwest coast. Although the acceptance of mussel and edible oyster was largely confined to the locals of the southern coastal states, the increasing demand in niche market and hotel industry, and further their export potential have now created increasing interest among the entrepreneurs for large-scale farming of these species in the coming years. The country is a new entrant to the open-sea cage aquaculture. The non-availability of the seed of important cultivable species remained a major issue for the cage culture of finfishes. However, the concerted efforts of ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) in recent years have led to the development of breeding and mass-scale seed production of several commercially-important finfish species, viz., cobia (Rachycentron canadum), groupers (Epinephelus spp.), pompano (Trachynotus blochii), etc. The cage farming technology developed by ICAR-CMFRI has opened up the avenues of fish farming in the open-sea. At present, cage culture is underway in both west and east coasts of the country with the installation of over 3000 cages, which is expected to expand further in the coming days. Efforts are on to utilize the concept of Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) by integrating seaweed farming with cage culture activity, which is not only leading to an increase in the production of fish and seaweed but also helping in water quality amelioration in the cages.