 Mondal, Scientist, Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 METHODOLOGY Location Field survey was done in villages of Badaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly, and experimental studies were conducted in Division of Medicine and LPR (C&B), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and with the help of Grameen evam Krishi Vikas Samiti, Haldwani. PRA and field study By making visits to a number of villages of District of Budaun, Shahjanpur and Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) a total of 20 key informants were contacted and the information collected were analysed on a 10 score ranking by PRA matrix method. Bael (wood apple) is used extensively in human medicine. The medicinal virtues of bael are described in the Charaka Samhita, written in 700 bc. The half-ripe fruit is known to have astringent property, which reduces irritation in the digestive tract and is excellent for diarrhoea and dysentery. The full-grown fruit (when it just begins to ripen) is best for medicinal purposes (Kindersley, 1996). Liquid extract of bael prepared from dried slices of unripe fruit is given @ 1-2 drachms. Powder of dried pulp, kept in airtight bottles is administered 20 grains - 2 drachms. Bael is useful as an adjunct after treatment of bacillary dysentery. The unripe fruit is cut in slices and sun dried or roasted and made into powder to be given in chronic diarrhoea and dysentery in children when there is no fever (Nadkarni, 2000). Experiment The un-ripped bael fruits of medium size just before ripening were collected, its hard covering removed and fruit was sliced. The fruit slices were shade dried. The dried slices were powdered using  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. Bael tree electric grinder. The powder was stored in a plastic container for use (Fig. 1, 2 and 3). The schedule adopted in diarrhoea animals for validation of ITK in clinical cases is given in Table 1. The blood samples were collected before (day Fig. 1. Bael tree Fig. 1. Bael tree TABLE 1. DESIGN OF THERAPEUTIC TRIAL Location Field survey was done in villages of Badaun, Shahjahanpur and Bareilly, and experimental studies were conducted in Division of Medicine and LPR (C&B), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar and with the help of Grameen evam Krishi Vikas Samiti, Haldwani. Therapeutic agent Group(n=5) Dose regimen Duration (3 days) Standard therapy (Cotrimazine) I 15 mg/kg b.wt. Twice daily Standard therapy + bael fruit powder II 15 mg/kg b.wt. + 24 g/100 kg b.wt. Twice daily Bael fruit powder III 24 g/100kg b.wt. Twice daily Standard therapy + bael fruit powder IV 15 mg/kg b.wt. + 16 g/100 kg b.wt. Twice daily Bael fruit powder V 16 g/100 kg b.wt. Twice daily   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 4. A calf with soiled back due to diarrhoeaFig. 5. Dull and depressed diarrhoeic calf in recumbency Table 2. Mean haemato-biochemical changes in group I (5) calves (Cotrimazine @ 15 mg / kg b. wt.) (MeanąS.E.