 Agro-technique and economics Withania somnifera is native to India and distributed in Pakistan, Sri Lanka, South Africa, Iraq, Iran, Syria, and Turkey. It is also globally grown in arid as well as semi-arid regions. In India, ashwagandha is commercially cultivated in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Haryana, Punjab, Karnataka, and Uttar Pradesh provinces. It naturally grows throughout hotter parts of India particularly on waste places. Overall, approximately 10,770 hectares of land are used to grow Ashwagandha with an annual production of 8429 metric tonnes. ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ is very much important in terms of their immense health promoting effects as well as from economic point of view as this plant has been enlisted among high demand medicinal species. If appropriate region specific cultivation of this plant can be done, that will be of huge impact over quality and quantity of the raw materials. This can ensure supply of good quality raw as well as formulated materials in both national and overseas market, ultimately thrust to increase their demand and good monetary return to the growers. The small sand mixed seeds are sown directly in the main field by broadcasting. After receiving two showers, the field is thoroughly prepared, divided into plots of convenient sizes and the seeds are sown during the second week of September. Plant-to-plant (12-15 cm) and row-to-row (40 cm) distance can be adjusted according to soil fertility. The population of ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ plants should be more than 2,50,000 per hectare required for potential yield. The seeds are usually sown about 0.5 cm deep in month of September-October. The seeds in the field are sown in lines and covered with a layer of soil. The germination commences within 20-30 days of sowing. About 3.5 to 4 kg of seeds are required for sowing in one hectare. A light shower or irrigation up to 15 days after sowing ensures good germination. Naturally the plants of ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ are grown in social forestry parts of villages as a weed in central to western part of Rajasthan. Other than this social forestry area, the plants are also found in field borders, Long tuberous, stout and brittle roots of Ashwagandha elite DTWr-1 Indian Horticulture 24 near tree trunks (ber, khejri etc.) in fields especially in rabi crops like gram, wheat, mustard and seed spices. The plant is known as ‘Askand ’ and ‘padalsingh’ in central Rajasthan. The onset of flowering takes place during the winter season and crop mature in the month of March- April while in fallow fields the crop was harvested in the month of February-March. Yellow paper wasp is very useful for pest and pollination management in Ashwagandha. Visiting time of this wasp is morning hours (8.30-10.30am) for nectar purpose. While foraging for these food supplies, especially nectar, the yellow paper wasps are able to simultaneously pollinate flowers. DTWr-1 has maximum 6 to 7 flower buds in per bunch per node.