 However, unchecked dumping of untreated wastewaters, from domestic, industrial and other such sources, into the basins and the aquifers not only causes irreversible harm but also causes further stress to this precious commodity. It is estimated that 1 litre of wastewater, pollutes 9 litres of freshwater and therefore, there is an urgent need for collection and remediation of wastewater at point-source stage itself. I am happy to note that ICAR-IARI has come out with an innovative wastewater treatment technology, JalopcharTM that has also been set up at CAZRI-Jodhpur, which I have personally visited and have been impressed by its unique and distinctive features. JalopcharTM technology has demonstrated tremendous potential for effective and efficient redressal of the wastewater management challenges being faced by the stakeholders, as evident from its adoption by various Government bodies and private agencies. I congratulate IARI and ICAR for bringing out this success story “JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology” and wish them success for its future deployment at pan-India scale. Kailash Choudhary Minister of State, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Goverment of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi FOREWORD Food security and agricultural sustainability is unthinkable without water. However, due to burgeoning population growth, rapid urbanization, more water intensive consumption patterns coupled with climate change and over- exploitation of natural resources, the share of water for irrigation sector has been facing a strong competition. Hence increasing scarcity of water, combined with other factors such as energy and fertilizers, is driving millions of farmers and other entrepreneurs to make use of wastewater. The wastewater recycling and reuse concept, which is already in several countries of Europe and Americas, is slowly gaining ground in India. This is evident from the recent water policy reforms undertaken across industries, municipalities, and residential of India. In this context the presented sucess story on an innovative and eco- friendly way of decentralized wastewater treatment through the ICAR-IARI's JalopcharTM technology would not only sustain agricultural productivity in different agro-ecological regions of the country but would also provide an opportunity for Urban Local Bodies and utilities to reinvent and build low cost and low energy decentralized wastewater management infrastructure. Wide scale adoption of the JalopcharTM technology for wastewater treatment and its local reuse - at community, institutional and individual levels would facilitate achieving overall equity and sustainability. I wish the author all the success in further advancement and dissemination of the developed technology. Dated the 14th September, 2020 T. Mohapatra New Delhi  PREFACE Water knows no boundaries and can be found at each step of the food chain from farm to fork.