 These Organic cultivation of cabbage Indian Farming findings underscore the substantial impact and cost- effectiveness of KVKs in promoting agricultural productivity and income generation among farmers across the country. Other schemes and new initiatives KVKs are actively implementing several impactful schemes aimed at enhancing agricultural practices and empowering communities. Among these, ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture) is being implemented across 100 KVKs. An appreciable effort has been made which could result to develop capacity of 65,661 youths, and translating their skills in establishing 14,878 enterprises and ensuring retention of youth in agriculture. Similarly, KSHAMTA (Knowledge Systems and Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas) covering 125 tribal districts have materialize in conducting 26,800 demonstrations and could train 200,000 tribal farmers. This has helped in promoting sustainable livelihoods, and conserving the indigenous knowledge systems. Considering the role of women in agriculture, NARI (Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations) project is being implemented with the help of diverse stakeholders to influence sustainability of food and nutritional dynamics by empowering women in agriculture. Looking at the importance of sustainable agriculture, 425 KVKs have been instrumental in promoting natural farming by organizing 6,777 awareness programs engaging 6.80 lakh farmers, conducting 4,105 demonstrations, and developing the capacity of 37,978 farmers through 418 training programs. KVKs have also spearheaded various initiatives to revolutionize agriculture, including Kisan Sarathi, a digital platform with over 1.74 million registered farmers and more than 5.8 crore advisories sent, and KISAAN 2.0, which integrates over 300 agricultural Apps into a single interface accessible in multiple Indian languages. KVKs embraced drone technology to modernize farming practices and providing the exposure to students through Atal Tinkering Labs. Additionally, initiatives like Landscape Diagnostic Survey (LDS) in pulses across 52 districts and the promotion of FPOs, with KVKs supporting 117 FPOs and functioning as Cluster- KVK Jalandhar March 2024 Indian Farming 8 March 2024 Based Business Organizations (CBBOs), signify their holistic approach towards agricultural development. The KVKs are building partnership and collaborating with 61 ICAR Institutes, 31 Ministries/departments of Government of India, and private players, like Amazon, Bayer and Krishi Jagran which underscore their commitment to innovation and convergence. Linkages with Common Service Centre (CSC) is going to be the game changer in transmitting agricultural information and making farmers aware about new technologies and schemes. These schemes collectively demonstrate KVKs’ commitment to fostering innovation, empowering communities, and ensuring the sustainability of agricultural practices across diverse landscapes.