 In the northern part of India i.e. in the states namely Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Sikkim, Karnataka, Himachal Pradesh, and Gujarat, rice is farmed under irrigation (wet) conditions. - Process flow diagram The flow diagram shown in Fig. 1 indicates the process steps used for Blast disease recognition using K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) classifier algorithms. = Classifier (ctassitcation ) Classifier Fig. 1. Flow Diagram of Proposed Method. The digital camera is used to take a 512 512 pixel image of a rice leaf as part of the image acquisition process. To improve accuracy, the pixel size of images is lowered to 256 x 256 pixels. For use in a subsequent operation, the scaled colour image is converted into a grayscale image. During the pre-processing stage of an image, the HSV image is separated from the RGB image. Fig. 2 (a) and (b) depict the normal and blast-affected pictures that were employed in the processing processes. After pre-processing paddy leaf images, image segmentation is done using k-means clustering with a range of k values. The sample output of the k-Means clustering applied to images impacted by blast disease is shown in Fig. 3. Normal Blast Fig. 2. (a) Normal image (b) Blast affected image. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 78 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 79 Fig. 3. K-means clustering image. - Outcomes/ results of use case high level The outcome of the use case indicates the status of the paddy crop with respect to leaf diseases. Bacterial blight, blast, sheath rot and brown spot are the disease types are detected using the deep learning algorithm. Part B 3. Architectural considerations a. Data management The presented use case heavily depends on the image acquisition in order to predict the various leaf diseases in rice crop. Hence, the proper deployment of image collecting nodes and its transmission are critical to the success of the system. There are two possible choices for the deployment of image acquisition: (i) Periodically (once in 2 days) fly drones over the farmland and capture geo-tagged images. Adding intelligence to image acquisition such as, taking a close-up shot of the leaves which have developed suspicious spots, would improve the prediction accuracy. The images captured by drone cameras could be sent to a main server for further processing. (ii) Drones could be connected to local hubs through Wi-Fi for transmitting the images to the hub, which will be further transmitted to Cloud server. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Backgroun \\ Ta HSV removed |) ยง, 9) > j converted image image Normal) Diseased portion portion Fig. 3. K-means clustering image.