 It Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Different varieties of Onion Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK is used for tumours and diseases of spleen. Fresh onion juice is used against flatulence, dysentery and cholera, and also for restoring consciousness in fainting and hysteric fits. Fresh juice of onion is bactericidal. Onion extract also reduces blood sugar during intravenous glucose tolerance test and adrenaline-induced hyperglycaemia in man. Onion: A bulbous biennial cultivated throughout India. Scape 60-75 cm in height, ventricose; leaves sub- distichous, fistular, acute, shorter than the inflated scape; flowers greenish white, stellate, in large globular umbels with or without bulbils, enclosed by a thin membranous spathe; fruit capsule. The Middle Asiatic countries in the region of Iran and Pakistan are considered the primary centre of origin of onion; in these regions it has been in cultivation form pre-historic times. The Near East Asiatic and Mediterranean regions are considered to be the secondary centres of origin. Onion is grown in India, since remote times, as is evident from its reference in the Charaka Samhita. It has been in cultivation for over 5,000 years and its existence in the wild form is doubtful. The edible part of the plant comprises the swollen bases of the green foliage leaves and fleshy scales. In the early stages of growth when days are short, the foliage leaves develop, whereas with the approach of the long day conditions, the leaf bases begin to swell to form a bulb, and no further foliage leaves are formed; the swelling of the basal fleshy scales progresses till maturity. 694 Use of dried garlic rhizome for controlling gram dhora beetle in pulses Volume 2, page 151 Garlic Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 695 : Use of mustard oil to check spoilage by insect pests : Volume 2, page 152 : Mustard Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 697 Pest control with cattle dung Volume 2, page 152 Cedrus Bengali: debdaru, devdar, Gujarati: devdar, vanseo deodar; Hindi: dedwar, deodar; Kannada: bhadradam, devadaru; Dogri: dadar, dair, deodar; Malayalam: devataram; Marathi: devadam, dewadar; Punjabi: dada, dewdar, kalain, keli; Sanskrit: bhadravata, deodaru, devadaru, mastadaru; Tamil: devadaram, devadari, devaduni; Telugu: devadari, devadaruva. Deodar, Himalayan cedar, true cedar Cedrus deodara (Roxb. ex Lamb.) G Don The Himalayan cedarwood, on steam distillation yields a golden-yellow essential oil, known as Himalayan Cedarwood oil, which has a characteristic balsamic odour. The bark is astringent, which is useful in fevers, diarrhoea and dysentery.