 Differences in moisture conservation due to different types of mulches, however, were small, but in many cases significant. Pine-needle mulch had an edge over other mulch materials. The choice of mulch material will depend on its availability, cost effectiveness and moisture conservation in the long run. Pine needles are easily available locally. Pebbles also appear as a potential mulch material, as they are also locally available in plenty. However, they may interfere with cultural practices like fertilizer application etc. The land shaping as well as mulching used for soil-moisture conservation significantly improved the growth parameters of apple trees, viz. plant height, canopy circumference and stem diameter. The making of tree basins significantly improved all the three growth parameters (Table 6). However, composition of terracing and trenching further improved the plant growth whereas all the three parameters were highest under the treatment of basin+terrace+trenching. Likewise, growth of apple trees was better with mulch than without mulch (Table 7). All the three parameters of plant growth were significantly low under control without mulch. Highest plant growth was observed with pine-needle mulch, although differences due to other mulch materials were nonsignificant. Effect of mulching on water status of apple trees The effect of mulching on plant water status was determined in terms of relative leaf-water content of apple trees, and the data are shown in Table 8. The relative leaf water content (RLWC) increased significantly with the application of mulch. Highest RLWC was observed with pine- needle mulch, and the lowest in control. The differences in RLWC among different mulch materials were nonsignificant. According to Table 8 mulching improved the water status of apple trees under rainfed situations. Water harvesting Five dug-out tanks were constructed in the experimental area. Four of them were lined each with polythelene sheet (Fig. 8), bitumen (Fig. 9), mud (mixed with dry grass in the ratio of 10:1), and cement+concrete layer (RCC) (Fig. 10), and the fifth was kept as unlined control (Fig. 11). The capacity of polythelene sheet tank was 17.6 m3, of bitumen tank 10.0 m3, of RCC tank was 8.2 m3, mud-plastered tank was 9.8 m3, and control was 12.7 m3. The RCC and polylined tanks were effective in storing rain water in situ/v/ater from springs brought to the site through rubber pipes. No seepage was observed in RCC and polylined tanks even after 2 years of their construction. The bitumen-lined tank did not perform well at this site, because the soil at the experimental site was loose and gravelly. Consequently, the soils caved in along with the bitumen layer as the temperature rose and the soil became dry. The mud-lining also did not prove effective, as it developed numerous cracks upon drying. It was also not possible to store water at all in the un-lined control tank due to very high seepage.