06%) and aphid incidence (Aphid Index=0.96) under Jagudan (Gujarat) conditions. Livestock Management: A total number of 74,582 serum samples from various NADEN units and State Animal Husbandry Departments were screened for major livestock diseases for sero-surveillance and reco- mmendations were provided to the state governments. A total of 517 samples were analyzed for AMR pathogens (MRSA, ESBLs) and the prevalence of antimicrobial resistance was documented from livestock, environment and humans. The whole genome sequencing (WGS) of bacterial (n=1458) isolates for AMR surveillance was carried out. Complete genome sequence of 12 H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses (2 from Bihar, 1 from Jharkhand and 7 from Kerala) isolated from chickens, ducks, quails and wild birds during October 2022 to April 2023 in different epicentres was determined. Under FMD sero-surveillance, 72,308 bovine serum samples collected across the country were analyzed using the r3AB3 NSP-ELISA (DIVA) to determine the apparent prevalence of NSP-antibody (NSP-Ab) in the bovine population. For post vaccination sero-monitoring, a total of 92,306 serum samples were examined using Solid Phase Competitive ELISA (SPCE) under NADCP to assess the efficiency of immunization. A competitive ELISA kit for detection of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) p80 antibodies has been developed which is intended for serological diagnosis of BVD in cattle. It is based on the recombinant NS3 antigen of an Indian BVDV-1 isolate and anti-NS3 monoclonal antibody. A two-step CRISPR/Cas 12a based diagnostic test was developed for rapid detection of African swine fever virus in samples of porcine origin. A urine-based pregnancy diagnosis kit ‘Preg-DM’ was developed and validated in collaboration with ICAR-CIRB, Hisar. The kit helps to detect pregnancy as early as days 30 to 35 post breeding for achieving high lifetime productivity. A technology entitled “SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit” was released by Hon’ble Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and myself on ICAR Foundation and Technology Day on 16 July, 2023. Three laboratories, Meat Species Identification (MSIL), Food Microbiology and Meat Nutrient and Residue Analytical Laboratory have been accredited as per ISO/IEC 17025:2017 by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL). The AgriInnovate has commercialized the India’s first OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 5 Lumpy Skin Disease Vaccine (Lumpi-ProVacInd) to four major vaccine manufacturers, Biovet Pvt Ltd, Bengaluru; Indian Immunological Limited, Hyderabad; Hester Biosciences, Ahmedabad and Institute of Veterinary Biological Products, Pune. A horse foal Raj Himani was produced using frozen semen technology and embryo transfer technology. A healthy female foal was born on 4 October 2023. The weight of the foal at birth was 35 kg.