 In rice crop, basal application of fertilizer at last puddling helps in placing the fertilizer in the reduced zone for high use efficiency, especially in medium heavy and heavy soils. Top dressing of N fertilizer at tillering must be timed with first weeding using cono weeder for incorporating urea in the reduced zone for better N use efficiency. However, for light textured soils, more number of split applications of fertilizer helps in increasing the use efficiency. Rice field should be drained to saturation before applying fertilizer and shallow irrigation be given two days after it to maintain a submerged condition. This water management practice is useful for high N use efficiency in rice field. In rice fields with ponded water exceeding 5 cm nano urea may be sprayed over the crop canopy at recommended doses. Use of urea super granules can reduce the use N dose, especially in heavy textured soils under submerged conditions. Other agronomic practices like optimum time of sowing, pest management and crop management improves yield and indirectly enhance fertilizer use efficiency. SUMMARY The present fertilizer crisis has forced the researchers, policy makers, extension workers and farmers to reduce the use of chemical fertilizers in agriculture. Rice is grown in about 40 Mha in India and huge quantity of chemical fertilizers is used. For this important crop, Sesbania is a good green manure- cum-cover crop under lowlands and sunhemp under uplands. At field level, green manuring with Sesbania has potential to meet 62.5% of N, 3.9% of P and 28.2% of K requirement of an irrigated high yielding variety of rice in Eastern India. This practice can be promoted by providing an incentive at `1500/ha to farmers. In acidic soils, rock phosphate may be used as P source and the full dose for the rice crop may be applied to the green manure crop. In mild acidic soil, the P dose for rice crop may be met from SSP or a combination of rock phosphate and SSP. Generating vermicompost at farm level and use of other sources such as biofertilizers, city compost and biogas slurry has good potential in substituting the chemical fertilizers. The extension approach should re-orient more towards fertilizer and water saving techniques. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sachin.rautaray@icar.gov.in Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the (Volume Il) development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops.