 Flowers are used in cough and bronchitis A medium-sized to large deciduous tree, usually with a short bole and large rounded crown, found throughout the greater part of India up to an altitude of 1,200 m. Bark dark coloured, cracked; leaves clustered near ends of branches, elliptic or elliptic-oblong, 7.5-23 cm x 3.8-11.5 cm., coriaceous, pubescent when young, almost glabrous when mature; flowers in dense fascicles near ends of branches, many, small; calyx coriaceous, corolla tubular, fleshy, Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT cream-coloured, 1.5 cm long, scented, caducous; berries ovoid, up to 5 cm long, greenish turning reddish-yellow or orange when ripe; seeds 1—4, brown, ovoid, shinning. It is found in mixed deciduous forests, usually of a somewhat dry type, often growing on rocky and sandy soil and thriving on the Deccan trap. It is common throughout central India, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh; it is also common in the drier type of sal forests in Madhaya Pradesh. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1394 Use of neem leaves for control of banki disease in paddy Volume 2, page 120 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 110 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1404 Control of paddy caseworm {Nymphula depunctalis) with sindwar leaves Volume 2, page 121 Sindwar Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1406 Control of rice caseworm in paddy using bamboo-shoot extract Volume 2, page 122 Bamboo Refer to ITK Code No. 359 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* 1418 Control of caseworm (Nymphula depunctalis) by pasu and sali leaves Volume 2, page 123 Contents TTK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Pasu and sali Pasu: Refer to ITK No. 357 Sali: Bengali and Hindi: kundur, luban, salai; Gujarati: dhup, gugali; Kannada: Chitta, guguladhupa, madimara; Malayalam and Tamil: parangi-saambraani; Marathi: salai, salphullie; Oriya: loban; Sanskrit: ashvamutri, kunduru, shallaki; Telugu: phirangi-saambraani. Pasu: Refer to ITK No. 357 Sali: Indian frankincense tree, Indian olibanum tree Boswellia serrata Roxb. ex Colebr. Pasu: Refer to ITK No. 357 Sali: The tree, on injury, exudes an oleo-gum-resin known as Indian olibanum, Indian frankincense or salai-guggul. The gum is credited with astringent, stimulant, expectorant, diuretic, diaphoretic, emmenagogue, ecbolic and antiseptic properties. It is reported to be useful in ulcers, tumours, goitre, cystic breast, diarrhoea and dysentery, piles and skin diseases. It is used in the preparation of an ointment for sores, and with butter in syphilis. Pasu: Refer to ITK No. 357 Sali: A medium- to large-sized, deciduous, balsamiferous tree, up to 18 m in height and 2.4 m in girth (normally 1.