in) presents knowledge and information in bilingual mode (English and Hindi) for a wide range of stakeholders that include researchers, students, policy planners, farmers and civil society. The website is updated regularly with news, success stories, announcements, circulars, tenders and other relevant content. Currently, on an average more than three lakh hits per month from visitors across the globe are recorded with a significant percentage of new visitors. The ICAR website was updated on regular basis, 1,285 new pages were created, and 5,282,012 visitors (2,539,352 unique visitors) from 221 countries visited the website from across the globe; the top five countries include India, United States of America, Union Arab Emirates, United Kingdom and Phillipines. 13. Information, Communication and Publicity Service E-publication platform The ICAR website also hosts e-publishing platform textbooks (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ebooks) of the Council that includes e books, catalogue of textbooks, etc. The DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 120 INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 121 on-line availability in Open Access mode has enhanced visibility and improved the global reach. The top ten countries those read ICAR literature are China, Iran, Turkey, USA, Pakistan, Egypt, Mexico, Brazil, Philippines and Indonesia. Research journals have about 20,000 registered readers and total registered users on the e-publishing platform of research journals are more than 75,000. In all the epubs platform Indian Agricultural research journals (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal) hosts 36 research journals published by the Council or professional societies in agriculture. Viewership analysis revealed that on this portal—total sessions were 253,376 by 139,865 users, and they viewed 1,459,581 pages in 188 countries. Open access archives pertaining to the Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture have 511 issues with more than 13,000 articles. Two abstracting journals, i.e. Indian Agricultural Sciences Abstracts and Indian Animal Science Abstracts were published half-yearly by DKMA. Trainings and workshops A joint workshop on ‘Communication and Knowledge Management in Animal Science Research and Development’ was organised with the International Livestock Research Institute, Kenya. Write-Workshops were also organized to motivate and train young authors in scientific writing. Trainings on ‘Online article processing’ and editorial assistance were provided to various various stakeholders for printing and publishing of scientific on-line journals. Knowledge and information products The Council publishes twelve regular publications that include research journals, semi-technical (popular) periodicals and in-house newsletters (eight in English and three in Hindi). Review articles from leading experts appear as a regular feature in research journals.