 The Governing Body of the ICAR in its meeting held on 29th June, 2020 has appreciated and approved the new guidelines for adoption in the Council. I congratulate the Committee members and the Agricultural Engineering Division of the ICAR for their valuable inputs in developing this document. Mahe 8th February, 2021 (Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra) New Delhi ill  cmnite | HID SAT ICAR ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS TT" Committee on Scientific Equipment Policy likes to express its sincere and whole hearted thanks to Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR for his foresight in creating an equipment policy for ICAR, for instituting this Committee and further for providing his valuable inputs at various stages for finalizing the Scientific Equipment Policy document. The Committee also extends its sincere thanks to the Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR for his valuable guidance all through for drafting the recommendations. The committee also thanks to all the Deputy Directors Generals and other Senior Officers for their outstanding support and cooperation during the process of discussions and in finalizing the recommendations. The committee also extends its sincere appreciation and a note of thanks to all the Directors of ICAR Institutes, Vice-Chancellors, Directors and scientific staff of selected CSIR Institutes and IITs who provided valuable information for the formulation of the recommendations. Member Secretary of this Committee Dr. Indra Mani and his team of Scientists in the Division of Agricultural Engineering ICAR-IARI are appreciated, by the rest of the Committee, for their strenuous efforts in collating the information and drawing a conceptual framework that formed the basis of our discussions and for the overall coordination in formulation and finalization of the recommendations. K. Alagusundarm On behalf of Members of the Committee Scientific Equipment Policy  omits | HID SAT ICAR CONTENTS Foreword iil Acknowledgements v 1. Background 1 2. Constitution of the Committee 4 3. Audit of Existing Scientific Equipment Resources 5 4. Policy and Procedure 11 Annexures Annexure-I List of ICAR — Advanced Scientific Facilities 20 in Different Institutes Annexure-IT List of Scientific Equipment Facilities in ICAR Institutes 22 costing greater than £10 million and upto %40 million Annexure-HT List of Scientific Equipment costing greater than 26 %2.5 million and upto %10 million vii  SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY BACKGROUND xperimental research works involve measurement of physical, chemical and 4A <biological quantities. Famous British physicist, mathematician and engineer Lord Kelvin (1824-1907) says: “I often say that when you can measure what you are speaking about, and express it in numbers, you know something about it, but when you cannot measure it, when you cannot express it in numbers, your knowledge is of a meager and un-satisfactory kind”; he further added, “if you can’t measure it, you cannot improve it”.