 Despite the fact that herbs had been valued for their therapeutic, flavouring, and aromatic properties for ages, their significance was briefly eclipsed by modern synthetic products. D. scandens has been used traditionally as an important ethno-medicinal plant by certain tribal communities of North-East India and Nepal. The extract of the plant is prescribed as remedy against fevers, high blood pressure, high sugar levels, gastrointestinal disorders and as diuretic. The leaves of the plant are taken as raw for asthma problem and paste is applied on cut and injury to control bleeding and for wound healing. The paste made from the crushed root tuber is applied to get relief from tooth ache. Some tribes of Arunachal Pradesh use the paste from the fresh tuber in snake bite and the powder prepared from dried tubers is used in gastric problem. In Nepal, the plant is fed to animals as an anthelmintic medicine and is also used in religious ceremonies such as Shradda (rituals and offering to the dead). Plant is used to treat dysentery and its juice extract is also used to treat fever and is applied to treat wounds between the toes brought on by repetitive barefoot walking in muddy water during rainy seasons. SUMMARY This vine known as ‘Yellow bleeding heart’ due to the large yellow heart shaped flower gives ornamental and medicinal appeal in Himalayas. All parts are toxic and also cause skin irritation. It is used in morden, pharmacological, ayurvedic and homeopathic medicines from long ago. This ethno-medicinal plant is used to treat various inflammations and tumours by several tribes of India, Nepal and China. It is used for animals as an anthelmintic medicine, to treat wounds, fevers, high blood pressure, high sugar levels, urinal and gastrointestinal disorders. However, much needs to be investigated with respect to safe herbal raw drugs production and bringing it under cultivation. For further interaction, please write to: Dr T S Mehra (Professor), Department of Forest Products and Utilization, College of Horticulture and Forestry, CAU, Pasighat Arunachal Pradesh 791 102. *Corresponding author: mehra_ chf@hotmail.com Disclaimer Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services.