5 kg green teak leaf and 5 kg sugar required to cover one hectare. This mixture is boiled till half of the solution is left. After cooling, the decoction is spread over the crops. It is sprayed before the virus infestation at an interval of 10 days. Keywords: kukra disease, cumin seed, viral, green teak leaves, sugar Shri Har Ram Kala Balaya, dist. Naguar (Rajasthan) Shri R. Rajavel Thadicherry, Periyakulam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 531 Dr Ranjay K Singh Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2843 Measures to control different pests in chillies 2844 Use of bark of mukul to control leaf-curl virus in chilli 2845 Control of leaf-curl virus in chillies by using guggul 2846 Protection of seedlings of chilli plants from gavala by using branches of kada By using asafoetida, termite population can be effectively reduced in chillies. Asafoetida is mixed with irrigation water in channels prevents termite damage. For minimizing the leaf folder damage in chillies (Capsicum annuwri), Shri R. Radhakrishnan of Dindigal (Tamil Nadu) developed a technique in which seeds of chillies are soaked in milk and water in the ratio of 1: 1, which effectively controls leaf folder. Keywords: chilli, termite, leaf folder, asafoetida, milk Late Shri Rameshbhai Bariahas developed a fumigation technique to control leaf curl in chilli plant. The bark of mukul (Commiphora mukul) and its gum are mixed with maize flour and sugar. The smoke of this mixture helps in controlling the leaf curl disease. Key words: mukul, leaf curl, chilli, maize flour, smoke A virus infection in chilli plants (leaf- curl virus), causes the leaves to shrivel. This leads to loss of nutrition in the plants and the crop yield reduces greatly. Shri Kanubhai Desai of district Mehsana (Gujarat) burnt guggul (Balsamodendmn mukul) and fumigated the plants with its smoke. The guggul is placed on burning cow- dung cakes and is carried around the field so that the plant is exposed to the fumes. About 700 g guggul is required for 1-acre crop. Keywords: guggul, leaf curl, chilli, fumes Kapuriben Chauhan from Gujarat developed a gavala method to protect the seedlings of chillies from eavala Shri R. Radhakrishnan P.O. Sukkampatty, Thadicamfu, Dindigul Anna (Tamil Nadu) Shri Rameshbhai Baria SRISTI, Nanapuvaala, Devgadh Baria, dist. Dahod (Gujarat) Shri Kanubhai Dharamsibhai Desai, Mehsana (Gujarat) Ms Kapuriben Chauhan SRISTI, Veddungarkulia, Ved, Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No.