 The programmes were—Foundation course for Agricultural Research Services, Induction training Programme to newly recruited Assistant Professors of SAUs, Management Development Programme, Entrepreneurship development programme, Off Campus Programme, etc. Several programmes for administrative and technical staff for enhancing competency and efficiency are also organized for discharging their functions. In online certificate course, viz. Massive Open Online Course (MOOC) on Competency Enhancement for Effective Teaching, 1,192 participants registered aimed at improving the quality of teaching. Educational programmes: The Academy continued its efforts in imparting postgraduate education in the niche areas of Agribusiness Management (PGDMA), Educational Technology and Management (PGDETM) and Technology Management in Agriculture (PGDTMA) and achieved 100% placement of final year PGDMA students of PGDMA. Collaborative programmes: In campus and off campus programme were organized in collaboration with Coromandel International Limited, Institute of Hospitality Management, Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition (IHMCT & AN) and Asom Agricultural University during the period benefiting 294 stakeholders. Start Up through AGRI UDAAN: The Academy in partnership with CIIE, IIM-A, supported by DST has launched Food and Agribusiness Accelerator Programme, 3.0 called “Agri Udaan” to encourage startups to scale up. National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) Component 2 A Under component 2 A of NAHEP, Nine Workshops and training programmes, viz. National Workshop on Academic Excellence through Building Partnerships and Resources Generation, Consultative Workshop on Academia-Industry-Government linkages for Quality Agricultural Education, Training of Trainers Workshop for organizing workshops on Development of soft skills for Entrepreneurship among Agri Graduates, Training Workshop on Education Management and Academic Leadership, technical committee meetings were organized. A total of 377 participants have given their input for quality and relevance of agricultural higher education in the country. Special programmes Developing effective organizational leadership Senior Executive Development Programme on Developing Effective Organizational Leadership for Senior Officers of ICAR conducted by Administrative Staff College of India (ASCI), Hyderabad. This programme is being organized with domestic component Training programme for IFS Probationers In accordance of MoU with Indira Gandhi National Forest Academy (IGNFA), Dehradun, a 60 IFS Probationers and 2 Officers belonging to the Royal Bhutan Forest Service participated in the Training Programme on “Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) and Communication Strategies including Integrated Watershed Management (IWM)” organized for the IFS Probationers (2018–20 Batch) at ICAR-NAARM during 26–29 September 2019.