 Soil and Water Productivity ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 9 The thrust is on micro-level agricultural land use planning, soil and water conservation, water-harvesting and groundwater recharge, improving water productivity and nutrient use efficiencies, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, organic farming, integrated farming system, agro- forestry, waste water utilization, hill and coastal agriculture, bio-waste management, weed management, climate-resilient agriculture and abiotic stress management cutting across the states/UTs. Digital mapping: A framework for digital soil mapping using AVIRIS-NG hyper spectral data, SRTM data (30 m), and Sentinel-2 data were developed to predict soil attributes at taluka level. Digital mapping of soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil pH in Goa was done using the Quantile Random Forest model. Total six different multivariate models (Elastic neural network (elnet), Random forest, Gradient boosting, K-means neural network, Cubist, and Support vector machine) were evaluated to predict soil pH and SOC from soil hyper-spectral data for Goa. In independent validation, the visible and near infrared (VNIR) wavelength range-based elnet model performed better for pH prediction and the Fourier-transform infra- red (FTIR) wavelength range-based gradient boosting model was better suited to predict SOC. Desertification map of Rajasthan: ICAR-CAZRI has prepared geo-referenced desertification map of Rajasthan at 1:500,000 scale based on Indian remote sensing satellite images (IRS-AWiFs) for three seasons (kharif, rabi and zaid) and ground truthing. The map reveals that 62.06% (21.23 million ha) of the total geographical area in Rajasthan is undergoing Framework for digital soil mapping using AVIRIS-NG hyper spectral data Digital soil organic carbon map and variable chart ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 10 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY desertification/land degradation (DLD). The most significant process of desertification/land degradation in the state is wind erosion covering 43.37% area followed by degradation due to loss of vegetation (7.64% area), water erosion (6.21% area), salinity (1.07% area) and rest is man-made (0.24% area). Natural minerals as substitution of P and K fertilizers: The requirement of phosphorus and potash in India is heavily import dependent, putting pressure on government exchequer. While production of phosphatic fertilizers rests on imported raw materials, the potassic fertilizers are totally imported. Indian agriculture depends on imported P (>90%) and K (>95%). ICAR-CAZRI Jodhpur has recently developed a methodology for producing granular mineral fertilizers of P and K for using low grade rock-phosphate (estimated available reserves 312.67 m tonnes in India) and feldspar like orthoclase, microcline (estimated reserves 634 m tonnes in India), respectively.