 Ficus: Bengali: pakar, pakur; Gujarati: pepri; Hindi: kahimal, kaim, keol; Kannada: basari, juvvi, kari-basari; Malayalam: bakri, chakkila, chela; Marathi: bassari, dhedumbara, gandhaumbara; Tamil: jovi, kallal, kurugatti, suvi; Telugu: Badijuvvi, jati. Solatium: Bengali: kantakari; Gujarati: bhoyaringani; Hindi: kateli, katai; Malayalam & Tamil: kandankattiri; Marathi: bhuiringani; Oriya: bheji begun, ankranti; Sanskrit: kantakari, nidigadhika; Telugu: pinnamulaka, nelamulaka, vankuda. Aristolochia bracteata: Gujarati: kidamari; Hindi: bhringi, gandan, kiramar; Kannada: kattackirubanagida; Malayalam: aduthinnapala, karalakam; Oriya: paniri; hukka-vel, jufa; Sanskrit: dhumapatra; Tamil: aaduthinnapalai; Telugu: gadugagudupa. Aristolochia indica: Indian Birthwort Horsegram: Horsegram Solanum: Yellow-berried nightshade Aristolochia bracteata: Bracteated birthwort Aristolochia indica: Aristolochia indica Linn. Clerodendrum inerme: Clerodendrum inerme (Linn.) Gaertn. Clerodendrum phlomoides: Clerodendrum phlomoidis Linn. f. Horsegram: Dolichos biflorus Linn. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Ficus: Ficus infectoria Roxb. Solanum: Solarium surattense Burm. f. Aristolochia bracteata: Aristolochia bracteolata Lam. Active ingredients : Aristolochia indica: The dried roots and rhizomes of A. indica constitute an important drug, much esteemed as a gastric stimulant and bitter tonic. The roots contain a small amount of fixed oil, Aristolochic acid. The chief active principle of the drug is aristolochic acid, though aristolic and /7-coumaric acids also appear to contribute to the activities of the drug. Clerodendrum inerme: The leaves are mucilaginous, bitter and fragrant, and their medicinal properties resemble those of chiretta. Fresh and dry leaves possess alterative and febrifugal properties. A poulfice of the leave is used to resolve buboes. A liniment useful in rheumatism is obtained by boiling the root in oil. Clerodendrum phlomoides: Root is aromatic and astringent and its decoction is used as a demulcent in gonorrhoea. It is also used as a bitter tonic. The juice of leaves is useful as an alterative. Horsegram: Horsegram is extensively used in south India as feed for cattle and horses in the same way as gram is used in north India. Stems, leaves and split husk are also used as cattle feed. The seeds are astringent, diuretic and tonic. Ficus: The tree is one of the recorded host of the Indian lac insect. Young shoots are eaten in curries. A decoction of the bark is used as a gargle and as a wash for ulcers. The wood and bark are reported to be suitable for paper pulp. Solanum: Root is expectorant, forming an ingredient of a well-known Ayurvedic medicine, Casamula. It is employed in cough, asthma, paining chest, being used in the form of a decoction. Seem, flowers and fruits are bitter and carminative. The juice of berry are used in sore throat. The plant is credited with diuretic properties and is used to cure dropsy.