 Alternatively or in addition, CDFD Hyderabad may also be requested to carry out the analysis. Plant Material to be provided by Dr. Katageri. PAK to provide plasmids and information on primers. ICAR to facilitate the same. 2. PAK has provided MTA signed in 1996 by Dr. R. P. Sharma, then Director, NRCPB, with Dr. Altosaar of U. of Ottawa (Annexure II provided by PAK). He indicated that he tried to negotiate a Freedom to Operate agreement with Dr. Altosaar which attempt was unsuccessful. He also provided the minutes of a meeting held on 5-10-2006, chaired by DOG (CS &H) and proceedings recorded by Dr. Mauria (ADG,IPR), which indicated that the MTA "may not be considered as an agreement at the national level" and that the said CrylAc construct should be called "truncated CrylAc toxin gene from NRCPB, New Delhi". In the meeting "it was also decided that the freedom to operate analysis as desired by University of Ottawa in email correspondence with Dr. P. Ananda Kumar is not required at this stage". Subsequent to the same, PAK removed all references to Dr. Altosaar from the Katageri et Current Science paper. The earlier version of the manuscript which had Dr. Altosaar as a co-author was provided by PAK. He also indicated that the same can be verified from the journal. 3. PAK indicated that he was in no way connected with commercialization, breeding work and biosafety analysis of Bn-Bt. PAK also indicated that he has never received any seed material of Bn-Bt at any point. All his analysis has been conducted with leaf material, either sent or brought {by Dr. ( atageri) from UAS, Dharw d. He was in no way connect . the outsourcing of work to wasthagen for flanking sequence analysis of Bn-Bt. All ofthis was taken care y ClCR. Conclusion: If indeed PAK has not received any seed material of BN-Bt, the contamination with MON-531 would have to have happened outside NRCPB. 4. PAK does not agree with the sequence of events indicated by the proceedings released by ICAR regarding the meeting on December 10·h 2009 which refer to earlier meetings (particular the May 21" 2008 meeting). He prOVided a draft minute ofthe meeting circulated by Dr. K. C. Jain of the December 10'" meeting. He categorically denies that contamination with MON-531 was discussed in the meeting held on May 21" 2008 by DOG (CS). He also denies haVing been informed at any time prior to September 2009 by either Dr. Kranthi or Dr. Khadi that contamination with MON531 had occurred. The documents provided by PAK are handed over to the committee (list of the same enclosed). 58 •• - - - ~. - - - - - Documents provided by NRCPB to sub-committee of 50pory Committee that visited NRCPB on 24'" March 2012. 1. Response to queries of sub-committee with thirteen annexures that contain the requested information. 2. Letter of Dr. P. Ananda Kumar to Dr. Ramesh 50nti, member of the committee, requesting that certain information and documentation be placed before the committee. This includes the following: a.