 Transplanting Seedling are transplanted on a planting distance of 60 × 30 cm around 4,200-4,300 seedlings are required for planting in 1,000 m2 area of greenhouse. Mostly transplanting is done in the evening and the nursery must be sprayed with systematic insecticides like confidor or metasystox @1/2 ml/litre of water before taking it out from the nursery greenhouse for protecting the plants from post transplanting infestation of leaf curl virus or mites. Pruning and training In greenhouse conditions, to ensure good growth and fructification, plants are cultivated with one, two or three branches. Fewer ramifications on the plant result in improved air circulation, increased lighting and reduced pests. Perform pruning at 10–14-day intervals as new shoots appear. Remove the base leaves, shoots and some flowers to stimulate plant growth and development. Pruning the plants to a single stem, two stems or four stems facilitate better management, permit closer planting, early maturity of fruits, higher yield of larger sized fruits as well as uniform light penetration in the plant canopy. Due to the heavy vegetative growth and fruit load on the coloured pepper plants, shoot pruning proves to be one of the important factors in proper utilization of production area. Capsicum plants are pruned after 30 days of transplanting at an interval of 8 to 10 days which resulted in bigger fruits with better quality and high productivity. Each capsicum plant is trained to retain only 2 or 4 stems. Shorten the lateral shoots, leaving 2–3 fruits on secondary shoots. There should be a maximum of 2–4 branches: the lowest at 15–20 cm from the ground or mat, the next at 20–25 cm. Prune secondary shoots or Raising the capsicum seedling in the Hi-tech nursery March–April 2021 7 branches to leave only the ramifications of the main stem. This practise of pruning is usually done under protected or polyhouse structure cultivation with the only purpose to get maximum and continuous production by making indeterminate type of plant. The plants are trained along the plastic twines tied to the main stem after 6-7 weeks of transplanting. A grid is prepared over the plants with a GI wire for this purpose. The main stem grows to a height of 3.5–4.0 m and must be trained to remain vertical. Use threads or plastic or metal rings to trellis each fructification stem of the pepper so it can bear the weight of the fruits. Trellising is necessary only for the main branches, not for secondary ramifications. be more than 90–92% because it is inclined to disturb the fruit. Weeding and hoeing Usually weeding and hoeing are done once in a month manually if mulching is not being used on transplanting beds. But mulching of beds especially of yellow colour plastics protect the capsicum from weeds as well as against leaf curl virus, which is spread by an insect white fly. Yellow plastic mulch is black from the other side, which helps in weed control and soil moisture conservation.