 SUCCESS STORY Geetha’s Home to Home, Thrissur, Kerala To prepare all ICAR laboratories ready for this accreditation with National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL), which is a constituent board of Quality Council of India (QCI), Council has emphasized on capacity building of its lab-based scientists where they can register their laboratories under NABL and maintain its services. In the reported period Council had organized six NABL Assessor trainings at its different institutes, viz.ICAR- NAARM, Hyderabad (24); ICAR-NDRI, Karnal (19); ICAR-CIFRI, Barrackpore (19); ICAR-NIVEDI, Bengaluru (22); ICAR-CIFE, Mumbai (22); and ICAR- IVRI, Izatnagar(18) where 124 scientists were trained on these aspects. With all these efforts 15 ICAR labs got accredited in accordance with the Standard ISO/IEC 17025:2017, and many more are in process. Progressive Use of Hindi Various useful programmes for public utility and farmers were organized by the institutions of the Council in Hindi and Regional Languages. All activities including agriculture extension related to KVKs located in Hindi speaking areas were also performed in Hindi and Regional Languages. Various publications on ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 196 IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT Including Annual General Body meetings of ICAR Society, all proceedings of these meetings were prepared bilingually, i.e. Hindi and English. Hon’ble Agriculture Minister and other Senior Officers delivered their addresses in Hindi. Their speeches/messages were originally drafted in Hindi in the Council. TECHNICAL COORDINATION The mandates of Co-ordination (Technical) Section and Award Cell: Preparation of Monthly Cabinet Summary for Cabinet Secretary, Organizing meeting of ‘Standing Committee’ for grant of financial assistance to Scientific Societies and Academic Institutions for holding of National/International Conference/Seminars etc., and publication of Scientific Journals, Organizing Director’s Conference, coordinatingand organizing the ICAR Regional Committee Meetings, Collaboration with Department of Science and Technology, Department of Biotechnology, Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, CSIR, ICMR, Bureau of Indian Standards etc., deal with the references received from Prime Minister’s Office, President’s Secretariat, Members of Parliament and VIPs etc., ICAR Annual Report and Audited Accounts laying in the Parliament, Parliament Questions of inter-divisional nature, Nodal point for e-samiksha portal for DARE/ICAR, Revision of guidelines for Awards from time to time, Releasing funds for Lal Bahadur Shastri (LBS) and Norman Borlaug Award projects, handle and promote the Swachhta Action Plan (SAP): releasing of funds, uploading of approved quarterly report on SAP portal.