 They have been found to protect a variety of plants from soil-borne fungal diseases to varying degrees. Similarly, the members of the genus Nocardiopsis are known for their antifungal activity against different phy- topathogens (Bennur et al., 2016). The inherent problems of resistance development by the target fungi and residue in the environment, associated with disease control measures by chem- ical fungicides led to the search for alternative plant protection measures. Due to the lack of novel antimicrobial metabolites, more and more researchers are focusing their efforts on different ecosystems. In the present study, antifungal activity assay against four fungal pathogens has shown that all 65 actino- mycetes strains showed antifungal activity against both F. udum and F. oxysporum f. sp. ciceris. This is consistent with the results of Amini et al. 2016 who reported all 112 actinobacteria isolated as antifungal against F. oxysporum f.sp. ciceris. In the current study, 74.25 % strain showed antifungal activity against M. phaseolina and 60.60 % against S. rolfsii. Singh et al. (2016) tested the antifungal properties of 80 actinomycetes strains against Rhi- zoctonia solani, Fusarium solani, Macrophomina phaseolina, Sclero- tium rolfsii, and Colletotrichum truncatum, and found various level of antifungal properties of different strains. Kamara and Gangwar (2015) isolated 100 actinomycetes strains from 30 rhizospheric soil samples of Catharanthus roseus and Withania somnifera from different locations of Ludhiana, India, and tested their antifungal activity against viz: Sclerotium rolfsii, Rhizoctonia solani, Helminthosporium oryzae, Macrophomina phaseolina, Penicillium sp., Fusarium oxysporum and Alternaria alternata. These ﬁndings along with our results suggest that rhizospheric soils have the prospective to identify actinomycetes with potent antifungal activity. To the best of our understanding, the present study offers for the ﬁrst time a prelude about the unexplored strepto- mycetes and Nocardiposis diversity associated with different crop root rhizosphere and bulk soil from different locations in Tamil Nadu, India. 5. Conclusion Our ﬁndings suggest that there exists a higher level of diversity among the members of the genera Streptomyces and Nocardiopsis in agricultural ﬁelds of Tamil Nadu although the latter is less diverse as compared to Streptomyces spp. The study also demonstrates that members of these genera inhabiting the rhizosphere and bulk soils of the study area possess great potential as antifungal agents. Their utilities as biocontrol agents are to be explored in further studies. Authors contributions PT, MTZ and SCK performed isolation, morphological characterization, and antifungal activity assay. WAA performed the phylogenetic analysis and compiled the data. MK planned and supervised the experiments and prepared the ﬁrst draft. HC and AKS collected samples, planned experiments, and improved the manuscript.