 White pupal cases protruding out from the spikelet and cause chaffy grains with exit holes are seen. Gram caterpillar (Helicoverpa armigera): It is a polyphagous pest. However, Cotton, sorghum, pearl millet, lablab, soybean, pea, safflower, chillies, tomato, groundnut, tobacco, gram, okra, maize, etc. are the major hosts. Larvae hide within the ear heads India. The grubs cut the roots resulting in wilting of plants in patches and die. Among Termites, Odontotermes spp, and Microtermes spp, mostly damage crops. Termites also attack the roots of maize and sorghum, and the damaged plants topple. They eventually disrupt the movement of nutrients and water through the vascular system resulting in the death of the plant. The dead plants are sheathed with soil. Integrated pest management (IPM) in millets Cultural methods • Collect and burn stubbles, chaffy ear heads and feed the Indian Farming 20 March 2023 stalks to cattle before the onset of monsoon. This will prevent the carry over of over wintering pests. Deep ploughing one month prior to planting will expose the immature stages of insects and serve as food for predators. • Adopt synchronous and timely/ early sowing to reduce the damage of shoot fly, midge and head bugs, and crop rotate of sorghum and other millets with cotton, groundnut and sunflower, to reduce the damage by shoot fly, midge and head bugs. Intercropping sorghum with pigeon pea, cowpea or lablab also reduces the damage by stem borers. • High seed rate (1.5 times more) and delay thinning minimize shoot fly damage. Mechanical method: Set up of light traps till midnight and fishmeal traps impregnated with arpocarb insecticides @12/ha till the crop is 30 days–old helps to monitor, attract and kill adults of stem borer, grain midge, june beetle and other moth pests. Biorational methods: Balanced fertilizer reduce shoot fly populations and stem borers can be managed by setting up of sex pheromone trap at 12 ha. For white grub adult control, place 3 pheromone (synthetic pheromone- Anisole) dispensers per tree at 15 meter radius for 3 consecutive evenings after the first monsoon rains. Collect and destroy the adults fallen near the base of trees by putting them in kerosene solution. Chemical methods • Treat the seeds with thiamethoxam 70 WS @3 g/1 kg of seeds to reduce the damage of shoot fly and to some extent stem borer and sucking pest. • At the time of planting 20 kg/ha of carbofuran 3 g granules may be applied in furrows before sowing to protect seedlings against shoot fly. When the shoot fly damage reaches 5–10% of plants with dead hearts, the crop may be sprayed with cypermethrin 10% EC @1 ml/litre. • Stem borer: Carbofuran 3 g granules may be applied in the whorls @12 kg ai/ha or the entire field can be sprayed with Metasystox @2 ml/litre. • Midge: The crop may be sprayed at the 50% flowering stage (1 midge/panicle) with cypermethrin 25 EC @0.5 ml/litre.