 among fishers and entrepreneurs to enhance their earnings. Inland water bodies especially reservoirs due to its vast resources have immense potential for cage culture of fast growing and highly prized freshwater fishes. Status and potential In India, out of 3.5 million ha water coverage under reservoirs, 2,157,318 ha are under the purview of a medium and large category of reservoirs. Already there are 20,000 cages in Indian reservoirs of 20 States producing approximately 50,000 MT of fish. Commercial scale cage culture in India at present is mainly restricted to Pangas and GIFT Tilapia and an average production of 2-3 MT/cage is achieved. By using a mere 0.1% of the total area under large and medium reservoirs, 2,157 ha will be available to be covered under cage culture. There will be 400 cages to be accommodated in 1 ha area at a size group of 6×4 or 5×5 m2 and thus, a total of 8.62 lakhs cages could be installed in these bodies. Success Story Indian Farming November 2020 6 Potential candidate species The selection of species for cage culture shall be customized based on market demand and market value, hardy and tolerant nature of the species, and acceptance to external sources of food under confined conditions. It is preferable to culture species with high market value as the cage culture venture is capital and operational cost-intensive. The species selected should also be hardy and tolerant of confined, crowded conditions and to the rigors of handling during net changes, net cleaning, fish transfers etc. Since the reservoirs are mostly oligotrophic and fishes are stocked at higher densities, the external source of feed is a necessity and identified fish must be able to accept external sources of feed for higher growth and survival. Economically viable cage culture of Pangasianodon hypophthalmus is practiced in reservoirs of the country. However, cage culture of more species drawn from the indigenous species pool needs to be encouraged. Considering the consistent demand for species of high economic and nutritive value, and the regional preference for some species, the following indigenous species need to be inducted into the cage culture domain subjected to seed availability: Labeo bata, L. rohita (Jayanti rohu), Osteobrama belangeri (Pengba), Systomus sarana, Ompok bimaculatus (Pabda), Heteropneustes fossilis, Etroplus suratensis, Macrobrachium sp. etc. Apart from Pangasianodon hypophthalmus and GIFT tilapia, no other exotic species (including illegally introduced fishes) are strictly prohibited for cage culture in inland open waters. Pen culture Pens are areas along the periphery of water bodies, enclosed generally on three sides by means of bamboo or net fencing or a combination of both, with the fourth side being contiguous with shoreline. In case of unproductive floodplain wetlands, where external fertilization is not feasible; cage and pen culture are perfect management options, wherein an area can be demarcated for enclosure culture.