 As moisture conservation tillage practice for rapeseed after sali rice, one cross ploughing by power tiller incorporating rice stubbles is recommended. Linseed Optimum time of sowing is from middle of October to middle of November. In Barak Valley Zone sowing can be done in December after harvest of sali paddy. Seed Rate is 15-20 kg/ha. Spacing should be 25 cm between rows and 10 cm between plants. It can also be grown as relay crop with kharif rice.se3 Niger Time of sowing is October (September to middle of October for Lower Brahmaputra Valley Zone). Seed Rate should be 8 kg/ha (1.1 kg/bigha) for line sowing and 12 kg/ha (1.5 kg/bigha) for broadcast crop. Recommended spacing is 25 cm between rows and 5-7 cm between plants Potato Well drained sandy loam and loam soils, rich in organic matter are suitable. A pulse crop should preferably be included in the rotation to improve the soil condition. Field should be thoroughly ploughed to obtain a good tilth. It should be levelled for uniform distribution of irrigation water or ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 237 to maintain soil moisture uniformly under rainfed situation. The furrows should be prepared at 50 cm apart. The optimum time for planting is mid-October to mid-November. In case of Kufri Sindhuri planting may be extended up to middle of December. Virus free, healthy, medium sized sprouted tubers are to be selected for planting. Ideal size is about 2.5 cm in diameter (25-40 g). Bigger sized tubers may be cut into pieces longitudinally with 2-3 eyes in each piece. In case of cut seeds, the pieces are to be dipped in Mancozeb @ 5 g in 1 litre of water for about 10 minutes. After treatment, the seeds are to be spread thinly and dried under shade for 48 hours or should be covered with moist gunny bags for 2-3 days for suberization. The seed requirement is 22.5-25 q/ha when size of the tubers is about 2.5 cm in diameter (about 25 g) and planted with an intra row spacing of 15 cm. Intra row spacing is increased with bigger sized tuber. The sprouted tubers should be planted in furrows with sprouts facing upward. Care should be taken to avoid sprout damage while handling the tubers. The furrow method of irrigation must be adopted. Three irrigations should be applied, first at 25 days (stolon formation stage), second at 60 days (tuber formation stage) and third at 80 days (tuber development stage) after emergence of sprouts. In case of application of mulching materials in furrows, only two irrigations are to be applied at 25 and 60 days after emergence of sprouts. At the time of application of irrigation, care should be taken not to submerge the ridges completely. Horticultural crops For nursery raising of rabi vegetables, sunny area with well drained friable light soil rich in organic matter should be selected. The nursery bed should be 1 m width and of convenient length. The ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 238 bed should be raised to 10-15 cm above the ground level.