 However, due to insufficient chilling hours, the plants couldn’t bear fruit there. In 1963, it was successfully grown at the Division of Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) in Phagli, Shimla, Himachal Pradesh, under Harbhajan Singh leadership. This led to successful Kiwifruit cultivation in India, with the first commercial orchard established in 1985 at Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry in Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Today, Kiwifruit is grown in various parts of the country, including Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Jammu and Kashmir, Sikkim, Meghalaya, and Nilgiri hills. Effect of climate and soil on crop success For optimal kiwifruit production, specific climatic requirements are essential. It thrives in Himachal Indian Farming 34 September 2023 Pradesh, at elevations of 900–1800 m amsl, with 600–800 chilling hours to break dormancy. Frost and low temperatures during spring and autumn can be harmful, while high summer temperatures (>38°C) and low humidity can cause leaf scorch and fruit damage. Proper rainfall (120–150 cm) throughout the growing period is crucial. Protection from high winds, hail, and rainfall during flowering is necessary. Ideal soil is deep, well-drained sandy loam with pH between 5.5–6.5, providing sufficient moisture and organic matter. Heavy clay soil with poor drainage is unsuitable for kiwifruit cultivation. Diversity of kiwifruit varieties: Focus on staminate and pistillate kiwifruit Kiwifruit is a dioecious plant, which means that it bears staminate and pistillate flowers on separate plants. This means that both male and female plants are needed for fruit production. Pistillate kiwifruit varieties commercially grown in Himachal Pradesh include Hayward, Allison, Abbott, Monty and Bruno. There are also staminate (male) kiwifruit varieties, including: Allison, Tomuri and Matua. The Hayward variety is the most commonly grown and commercially important variety of kiwifruit, accounting for the majority of global production. The Allison kiwifruit variety is primarily grown in different regions of the state for its high yield, excellent fruit quality, and also good disease resistance and is the best choice for Himachal Pradesh. Approaches for propagating kiwifruit plants Kiwifruit propagation employs several methods, such as softwood, semi-hard, and hardwood cuttings. Softwood cuttings come from the middle part of the current season’s growth, while semi-hard ones are taken in June–July, and hardwood cuttings are sourced from one- year-old shoots during January– February. Among these methods, hardwood cuttings are widely used in commercial kiwifruit propagation. These cuttings should be 0.5–1.0 cm thick, with short internodes (spaces between leaves or buds) of about 10– 15 cm in length, and at least 4–5 buds. To promote rooting, the cuttings are briefly dipped in a 4000–5000 ppm IBA solution and then planted in a mist propagation chamber or open field conditions.