 Keywords: Farmer FIRST, Nutrient management, Residue recycling, Vermicomposting I NCREASE in agricultural production over the years has also resulted in a proportionate increase in the generation of agricultural waste in the country. As per the world agricultural waste statistics, India is the second largest agricultural waste generator after China. Annual production of agricultural waste in India is reportedly ~ 500 million tonnes and one-fifth of this waste is burned every year. In fact, a huge portion of this waste has the potential to get recycled and reused at farm level, and converted to bioenergy at industrial level. It is well known that bringing crop residue back to farm fields as mulch and/or in its recycled form as compost can contribute a lot to soil health enhancement and improve crop yield. Still, most farmers are unaware of the alternative use of their farm waste. To save time and money, farmers prefer the easy way out like field burning to clear crop residue. Also, ignoring the opportunity to use animal manure for biogas production or composting, mostly Indian Farming 74 (11): 58-61; November 2024 it is kept as heaps or in pits somewhere near the cattle shed without much care leading to the emission of greenhouse gases. Under these circumstances, stories of effective on-farm management of agricultural waste to exploit its beneficial effects to improve soil quality, promote healthy plant growth and add extra income to the farm family are always promising. The journey of a young farmer from Madhya Pradesh from a smallholder farmer to an Agripreneur with a little help from the National Agricultural Research System can motivate the unemployed Indian youth to get self-employed and support the revival of the local economy. Success story of Shri Santosh Meena through the Farmer FIRST Programme initiative Farming background Shri Santosh Meena, a 32-year-old farmer from the Kalyanpura village of Bhopal district in Madhya Indian Farming 59 November 2024 Pradesh, turned to agriculture after completing high school. His family’s primary source of income came from their 3.5 acre farmland and 6-7 cows. The traditional farming practices for their soybean-wheat crop rotation system involved intensive tillage and imbalanced use of nutrients, leading to high cultivation costs. Until 2016-17, the application of plant nutrients in his farmland was largely skewed towards nitrogenous fertilizers, particularly in the form of urea for soybean crop. Although they did apply 2 t/ha farmyard manure in each kharif season, use of chemical fertilizers for the soybean was confined to application of 100 kg N/ha in splits as broadcasting during the germination stage and another application during flowering stage. For wheat, fertilization involved a basal application of DAP and split application of urea along with irrigation (at a rate of 200 kg N/ha, almost 1.6 times higher than the RDF and 70 kg P2O5/ha).