 aonla extract was more protective against lipid peroxidation of the products than curry leaves extract. Spent hen meat: Value-added chicken meat products (chicken meat chips and chicken meat waffles) were Organic Animal Husbandry Organic certification of fodder was carried out and after due inspection and auditing, third year organic scope certificate was awarded for the fodder as per the NPOP standards of India. NRC on Meat developed the protocols for organic sheep production and recently received organic livestock certification from Organic India. developed utilizing tough spent hen meat incorporating whole grain flours, fruit by-products and natural antioxidants (Oregano, Basil and Vitamin-E). These products contained higher content of dietary fibre, total phenolics, -carotene and -tocopherolacetate which exerted health benefits in animal model trials in terms of reduced blood LDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol and had higher HDL-cholesterol level and antioxidant enzymes activities. Lactobacillus plantarum, one of the most effective probiotic bacteria which is known for its antioxidant and antimicrobial property, exerted antimicrobial action against E. coli and Salmonella typhimurium in tryptic soy-broth at temperatures of 18°, 20° and 22°C in chicken suasages. Calpains (μ and m) are the key proteolytic enzymes of calpain system that greatly influence the tenderness of meat. So, based on the activity of μ-calpain the post-mortem ageing for meat from different species of animals was standardized. Quilt from coarse wool: Processing technique was developed for the preparation of light weight quilt using coarse wool. This quilt of a size 7ft × 5ft (2.1 m × 1.5 m) has a total weight of 975 g. For the preparation of quilt, first a sheet of coarse wool was prepared and then it is laid inside a cotton cloth and stitched manually. Closely woven compact fabric is used to reduce the protrusion of fibres through fabric surface. The thermal insulation value of coarse wool assessed using thermal conductivity apparatus showed that it has Tog value of 3.23. This showed that the prepared quilt is useful to protect the user from cold during winter. It’s cost is 2.5-fold lower than cotton quilt. Wool Home furnishings: In the country, 34% of wool produced comes from southern states and majority of this wool is of coarse quality with diar >40µ. Coarse wool is difficult to spin due to high fibre dia, high bending rigidity and torsional rigidity. To mitigate this problem, a braiding process technology was developed for the use of coarse wool in preparation of furnishing items like picnic mat, yoga mat, doormat, bathmat and handle for bags. In this method, coarse wool is hand twisted and sliver is prepared. This sliver is fed into the core of the machine and covered with wool/polyester/nylon for making braided cord. The braided cord is hand sewn to convert into doormats, bath mats, picnic mat and yoga mat.