 The outcomes that the interventions aimed to change cannot be easily translated to DALYs or other common outcomes for. Conclusions In this study we estimated the cost of designing and im- plementing 3 participatory NSA interventions in rural India, responding to the gap in evidence on the costs of multisectoral NSA interventions and providing useful data to inform their potential scaleup. Our findings show that the costs per primary intervention participant of implementing the interventions are comparable with the results from a limited set of evaluated multisectoral NSA interventions. Considering that a substantial investment has already been made to develop the UPAVAN interventions, costs at scale could be decreased with a less intensive information monitoring system, reduced startup costs, integration within existing programs, and possible economies of scale. We recommend scaleup of AGRI-NUT + PLA, which had the lowest cost per unit increase in dietary diversity. This scaleup should be feasible, given that participatory videos on agriculture, nutrition, and PLA groups are already being implemented at scale in several settings, and because the intervention approach is designed to be responsive to local contexts. Acknowledgments We thank Avinash Upadhyay, Vinay Kumar and S. Kaushik from Digital Green; Kristina Granger, Sarah Hogan and Ashley Thompson from JSI SPRING, and the accountants at VARRAT and Digital Green for their contribution in setting up and collection of cost data. We thank Joanna Sturgess, Diana Elbourne, and Emma Beaumont for their contributions to the impact evaluation. We also thank all VARRAT, EKJUT, and DCOR field staff for delivering the intervention and conducting the impact evaluation surveys.The authors’ responsibilities were as follows—HH-B, JS: conceived and designed this economic evaluation study; HH-B: designed/adapted the cost data collection tools; MO, AK, SF, RP, SKa, SKr, HH-F: provided input for design/adaptation of the cost data collection tools; AK, AKO, SF, SN, NKM, ShP, PJ, SM, SNM: contributed to setting up and/or collection of cost data. HH-B: led the cost analyses; TP, EF, HH-F: contributed to cost analyses; HH-B: wrote the first draft of the manuscript; with critical contributions from HH-F, TP, JS, SKa, AP: made critical contributions to the manuscript; SKa, EA, AP: developed UPAVAN trial evaluation design; HH-F: provided support for UPAVAN trial evaluation design; EA: led the statistical analysis of the UPAVAN impact evaluation; SKa, HH-F, EF, PJ: helped with statistical analysis; SKa, AP, HH-F, RP, ShP, SuR, PKB, NN, NKM, ShR, HD, SKr, MO, PT: designed the interventions; SM: led the impact and process evaluation data collection; SKa, SKr, HHF, AP, EA, PJ, EF: supported the impact and process evaluation data collection; ShP, RP, SuR, NN, NKM: led the supervision of all implementation activities for all interventions; and all authors: read and approved the final manuscript.