 Brown sarson, toria and taramira are popular in Punjab. Brown sarson is more popular than yellow sarson in Assam. Sarson and rai are preferred in Bihar. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages 1151 Protection of pulse grains from storage pests Volume 2, page 230 Mustard and sesame Mustard: Refer to ITK No. 750 Sesame: Gujarati: Tal; Hindi & Marathi: Til; Kannada & Tamil: Ellu; Malayalam: Karunthellu; Oriya: Khasa, rasi; Sanskrit: Tila; Telugu: Nuvvulu. Habit Contents GRATN/SEED STORAGE English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Sesame: Sesame, Gingelly Sesame: Sesamum indicum Linn. Sesame: The oleaginous edible seeds of Sesamum indicum are traditionally esteemed high for the oil (oilcake used as a cattle feed). Sesame seeds are considered emollient, diueretic, lactagogue and nourishing tonic. They are said to be helpful in piles. A decoction of the seed is said to be emmenagogue is also given in cough. Sesame oil is widely used as an ingredient of confectionary and for making margarine. It can be used in the manufacture of soaps, cosmetics, insecticides and pharmaceutical products. Sesame cake-meal obtained as a by-product of the oil-milling industry is highly esteemed as a livestock feed. It is valued also as an ingredient of poultry feed because of its methionine content in practical rations for farm animals (cows, calves and bullocks), the cakes from ghani, expeller and solvent-extraction process are comparable digestibility of total carbohydrates. The sesame cake or meal is a source of protein for human nutrition. Sesame: An erect, branched or unbranched annual 60-180 cm high, cultivated throughout the plains of India and up to an altitude of 1,200 m; leaves 7.5-12.5 cm, simple or, when variable, with upper ones narrowly oblong, middle ones ovate and toothed and the lower ones lobate or pedatisect; flowers white, pink or mauve-pink, with darker markings, borne in racemes in the leaf axils; fruit capsular, oblong-quadrangular, slightly compressed, deeply 4- grooved, 1.5-5 cm long; seeds black, brown or white, 2.5-3 mm long and 1.5 mm broad. It is one of the most ancient of the cultivated crops in India. It was perhaps introduced into India by the earliest human migrants from Africa. Widespread cultivation of sesame in Asia and Africa since ancient times has rendered it difficult to ascertain its original home. Several authors recognize the Abyssinian region of Africa as the primary centre of origin of sesame in their wild forms, whereas central India, Assam and Myanmar have been regarded as the primary centres of origin of the cultivated forms. The central and eastern mountainous regions of China are recognized as a secondary centre of origin of the cultivated forms.