 Thus an extended classification was in consonance with the stated objectives of the identified schemes/ programmes across the 24 ministries. Such a cross cutting and thematic/ need based convergence of different programmes will ensure mainstreaming the developmental agenda as per the relevance of the programme to climate change adaptation. This approach envisages to sensitize policy makers towards the programme duplication issue and in ensuring effective utilization of the available financial resources thereby bringing prudency, effective targeting and outcome oriented approach towards enhancing the resilience of Indian agriculture/vulnerable section or region. Efficiency, inclusiveness and financing of dairy value chains Despite growing dairy industry in India, farmers’ lack of access to organized markets and institutional credit remains one of the major hindrances in improving the scale and productivity of dairy. These constraints also eased smallholder dairy farmers’ transition towards commercialization using a value chain approach. A study in Punjab (survey of over 600 dairy farmers) evaluated efficiency, inclusiveness and financing of formal dairy value chains. It revealed that 62% of the sample farmers representing 69% of the total milk sales were connected with formal value chains driven by co-operatives, multinational companies and private domestic processors, while, majority of small dairy farmers with informal value chains. The farm-level performance indicated more profits for farmers in cooperative value chain. More than half of the farmers borrowed credit both from within and outside the chain for dairy related activities. Chain-based financing was restricted to only one-fourth of the borrowers, mostly to farmers associated with informal value chains. Financing by commercial banks and other financial institutions was limited to only 9% of the borrowers, mainly large farmers. The socially-disadvantaged and small farmers were often neglected in institutional lending because of their lack of physical assets to use as collateral against loans. Value chain approach, due to its product market orientation, can serve as an entry point for financial institutions to improve their outreach to smallholders. The innovative financial products, such as ‘dairy credit card’ and ‘contract as collateral’ would enable them to adopt yield-enhancing technology and inputs and also to scale up their dairy activity. IT approach to agricultural marketing: e-Mandi system The study examined operation of e-tendering system for Red Gram in Gulbarga APMC, identified determinants of traders’ participation in e-marketing, assessed the impact of electronic auctioning on the various stakeholders - farmers, traders, commission agents and market revenue, and studied perception of the market participants on the e-auctioning mechanism of marketing of red gram. The results showed that e- tendering system has contributed towards an increase in the market revenue.