 Market surveys on cassava products showed that Pune, Mumbai and Kolkata are the major marketing and consumption centres for sago in India, inflow to the market being from Salem in the former two places and Samalkot in the latter place. M U S H R O O M Gene Bank of National Research Centre for Mushroom (NRCM) was enriched by adding 107 fleshy fungi collected form forest areas of Himachal Pradesh. For the conservation of germplasm, different methods were developed. Mushroom cultures could be preserved for a short period when wheat grain was used as substrate/medium and stored at 4°C. For medium storage, higher recoveries were achieved from liquid paraffin storage at room temperature and in glycerol, both at room temperature and at 4°C. For a long-term preservation, cryopreservation was effective and cultures could be stored for more than 2 years. Protocols for DNA isolation, purification, quantification and amplification were standardized to detect the genetic variations during storage. Of the 43 Agaricus bisporus lines comprising commercial strains, wild collection from India and exotic strains evaluated for yield, quality and insect pest resistance to select as parental lines, bran strains from USA produced tough fruit bodies with higher yield at lower temperature (14-16°C) compared to white strains. The Morchella vulgaris, M. conica and M. esculenta were collected from Himachal Pradesh for domestication. The compost prepared in newly-constructed phase I bunkers gave 18% higher yields of Agaricus bisporus/A. bitorquis in 6 weeks of cropping. Post composting supplementation of compost with organic nitrogen containing supplements like soybean/cotton seed at the time of casing showed significant yield increase when added to substrate at 6”depth and whole compost mass. Both soybean and cotton seed proved to be good supplements when applied after formalin treatment. Coir pith, fine grade garbage compost, coarse grade garbage compost, spent mushroom compost, both alone and in various combinations were promising as casing materials in cultivation of commonly-grown white button mushroom, A.bisporus. Medicinal mushroom, Ganoderma lucidum, was successfully cultivated for the first time in India on saw-dust and wheat straw substrates. Disease surveys conducted in mushroom farms of Himachal Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab revealed the maximum incidence of Mycogone perniciosa, followed by yellow mould and ink cap. In some areas in Haryana (Morni Hills) 25-30% incidence of wet bubble disease was recorded. Sciarid fly infestation was observed in all the farms surveyed. Integrated management of Mycogone disease includes removal of old casing - application of Bavistin (0.1%) spray -recasing of the bed. This reduced the disease incidence significantly and increased the healthy mushroom yield. Single spray of Bavistin @ 0.