 Grazing behaviour indicated that first preference of camel is lopped jal tree leaves followed by murali, tortlis, pala and phog. Supplementary feeding of green grammana grass improved milk production (4,980.29 ml). Milk production was higher in morning as compared to evening. Dry matter intake/100 mg body weight, digestible dry matter intake, DCP, TDN and ME were greater in supplemented group as compared to control. Chemical composition of commonly used fodders by bactrian camel was analysed. Crude protein was highest in Hypophae rhamnoides followed by gyalta, changna and alfalfa. Yak Some local fodder trees consumed by yaks were identified to species level and a herbarium was prepared. Comparative chemical composition of certain locally available fodder trees was studied. Total fodder production increased to 27,068.70 kg. Fodder maize (African tall) could be grown at 2,750 m amsl. Toxic factors and crude protein of bagar, domkor, phrengpa, marma, marshing, bamlakpa, khaksuma, suylili, blemkar were estimated. Mithun Different combinations of rations incorporating locally available grasses, tree leaves, shrubs etc with rice polish and wheat bran were developed, tested through experimentation and recommended for larger use by mithun farmers. Although suitable feeding technologies were developed for optimizing growth and production in mithun, the same could not be tested at farmers field because the mithuns are still kept by the farmers in semi wild state. The farmer may not use these technologies unless proper domestication and semi-intensive/intensive system of mithun rearing is followed. However, efforts are on to educate the farming community on the need of rearing mithun under confinement system. Grasses, herbs, shrubs and tree leaves preferred by mithun were surveyed and proximate principles for some of them were analyzed, and out of 70 samples collected 25 were taxonomically classified. Thedie tree leaves contain 31.48% crude protein, so 100 trees were planted in farm of the institute. Feeding of cultivated fodder was practised in the farm animals. Napier grass was relished by the mithun. Mithuns fed on napier grass at vegetative stage, gained a daily average body weight of 500 g/day with a feed conversion ratio of 1:5.32. Rabbit Economically viable feeding system for rabbits was developed with soybean- meal, which can completely replace mustard-meal in broiler rabbit diet. Broiler rabbits tolerated 8.4 mg glucosinolate/kg diet in the form of complete pellets. Long term feeding of mustard-meal caused motility in rabbits, and hence not suitable for breeding or wool producing rabbits. Netwok Programmes in Animal Nutrition Network programme on Micronutrients in Animal Production is in operation at SUCCESS STORY COMPLETE FEED BLOCKS At the CSWRI, Avikanagar, a machine was developed in collaboration with the IARI, to prepare complete feed blocks (CFB). A 10 horse power hydraulic machine was used to produce the CFBs.