 The existing method of colour measurement is as per Indian standard IS 6921:1973 which pertains to lac and lac-products, does provide guidelines for general quality assessment, including colour index. This comprises colour index estimation by visually comparing 10% solution of lac in alcohol with standard iodine solution. This method is time consuming, requires skilled manpower, consumes more solvent, with higher chances of human errors and hence often leads to compromise in the accuracy of analysis. LaCilyser is an integrated device designed for precise measurement of the colour index of lac. The device offers accurate results across a wide range of lac colour index values with its pre- calibrated system and resolution of colour index ±1.0. Operating on a user- friendly interface, the device incorporates data acquisition and processing capabilities, providing quick and reliable measurements in just 30 seconds. The standardized preparation of the lac solution, , ensures consistency and adherence to recognized protocols. The LaCilyser is a valuable tool for industries requiring precise colour evaluation contributing to its quality control. The instrument has been developed jointly by ICAR-National Institute of Secondary Agriculture and CSIR-Central Scientific Instrument Organization supported by NABARD. Patent of this instrument has been filed (Indian Patent Application No. 202331062688 dated 18.09.2023). Automatic fruit grading machine: An AI-enabled farm-friendly Automatic Fruit Grader of approximately 200 kg/h capacity for citrus fruits has been developed with the unique capability of carrying out washing, image-based sorting and weight-based grading of the fruits in one go. A custom lightweight CNN model called SortNet has been used to train the machine on the citrus fruits and the hyper parameters have been tuned to get the optimal performance. Using the DCNN technique, the POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 116 of conveyer feed belt, beating roller assembly, gripper holder assembly and is powered by 1.50 kW motor to operate beater roller and 0.75 kW motor to operate conveyer belt and suitable pairs of proximity sensors. The banana sheaths are gripped on holder assembly and conveyed to beater roller assembly. The directions (forward/ reverse) of movement of conveyer are controlled using electronic controllers. A higher fibre output of 25- 30 kg/h was obtained as compared to 10-12 kg/h and cleaner banana fibre with less scutcher waste. High throughput profiled rotating drum needleless electrospinning system (PDES): High throughput Profiled Rotating Drum Needleless Electrospinning (PDES) System was designed and developed. The developed system has a higher production capacity of around six times compared to the conventional single-needle electrospinning system. It provides positive feeding of solution through drum profile arrangements.