 Consequently, it is imperative to recognize the interconnectedness of the impacts of land and water resources alongside greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions through the land–water–energy–GHG nexus model. Nexus-thinking combines integrative systemic solutions to improve the usage of land and water resources besides efficient management of energy resources, while also considering social, economic, and environmental aspects. Sustainable resource management necessitates setting goals for using local resources to obtain long- term advantages while safeguarding natural resources and the environment. This approach plays a critical role Indian Farming 75 (01): 09-13; January 2025 Indian Farming 10 January 2025 in enabling decision-makers to take actions that can effectively manage sustainable resource utilization to achieve maximum efficiency. Soil management practices for climate resilient agriculture Many proven soil management practices can help farmers adapt to the increasing weather variability and climate change while also reducing agricultural greenhouse gas emissions. Widespread adoption of these practices can significantly contribute to national food security and development goals. Climate change and variability can impact soil health and plant growth through reduced/erratic rainfall, severe droughts, intense weather events causing erosion, reduced groundwater recharge, and soil moisture stress. Higher soil temperatures hasten the breakdown of soil organic matter, reducing the soil’s capacity to sequester carbon and retain water, and can also lead to soil salinization through higher evapotranspiration, as salts accumulate in surface layers, hindering plant growth and reducing yields. Proper management of irrigation and drainage systems is essential for growing salt-tolerant plants in such conditions. Some soil properties, like texture, are more resistant to change, while others, such as organic matter, structure, base saturation, and pH, are more sensitive to environmental changes, including those driven by climate and land management practices. Soil carbon stocks are crucial for monitoring land degradation. Soil physical properties influence its response to climate change and guide the management practices needed to maintain key ecosystem services, such as water retention, nutrient supply, carbon sequestration, and reduced GHG emissions. Understanding these properties helps agricultural producers adapt to and mitigate the impacts of climate change. Soil resources information systems The foregoing discussions underline the direct relevance of systematically understanding the status and condition of soils, along with their properties to make informed decisions about climate-smart land use through sustainable soil management.