 However, the severe thermal conditions in this processing technique leads to textural disintegration, limiting the process adaptability to a few species like tuna, crab, lobster, shrimps, etc. Hence, emerging species for thermal processing is demanded which further broaden the scope of value addition. Curing and drying, even though an age-old practice, opens up new dimensions and possibilities towards value addition in domestic as well as international markets. In India, as per the estimates, about 17-20% of the total catch is converted to dried products and dry fish export contributes to about 7.86% of total fish exports. However there are several factors hindering the addition of dried fishery products to the product profile. The major one being, lack of standard operating procedures as drying is still pratice in traditional method of processing. Moreover, there is a general concept that drying is a secondary method for preserving low value varieties, which compromised quality. Attempts towards improving the handling practices right from the point of raw material harvesting till marketing, popularisation of improved packaging practices, use of hygienic energy efficient mechanical driers, and adequate extension services can facilitate better adoption of drying practice in seafood sector. Although fermentation has traditionally been used to preserve fresh fish, especially in tropical climates, today it is used to enhance nutritive value, improve appearance and taste, destroy undesirable factors, and to reduce the energy needed for cooking. However, it takes long duration to develop the characteristic features of fermentation. Smoking of fish is done primarily for the unique taste and flavour, however, the texture of flesh may be affected during the smoking process. Hence, preparation of flavoured products with typical flavour extracts may be advised to reduce the process time and can be projected as a minimal processing protocol with product diversification scope for chilled high value fishes like sea bass, cobia, pompano, and grouper. This opens up value addition opportunities in terms of less intense flavour of cultured species owing to the difference in food chain followed in captive condition compared to the basic seaweed based food pyramid in marine ecosystem. Recently, the global seafood market indicate diversification with increased consumer demand towards more convenient on-the-go products, having superior nutritional value. In this line, a series of intermediate/low moisture foods such as nutritional bars, meat flakes, noodles, pastas, etc. have occupied the modern domestic and export markets. They have a low water activity (0.7-0.9), stable under ambient conditions for longer duration and can be used with/ without rehydration. Techniques like food extrusion provides a great versatility for the development of such nutritious and convenient food products especially cereal-based snacks and food products.