 So, due to the betterment of life, domestic demand remains important to high-value crops, such as, fruits, Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 6 of 18 vegetable oil. Therefore, we took urban population as a proxy variable of urbanization. Moreover, we took log transformation of urban population, i.e., lnupop = ln(urban population) This data of urban population was extracted from the CMIE database. 2.2. Selection of Model and Procedure for Estimation We examined the geographical variations in crop diversiﬁcation and attempted to uncover their causes in a panel-data framework. This is because the panel-data set allowed the study to minimize bias caused by omitted variables, and repeated observations of the same individuals across time revealed processes of change. Furthermore, panel-data analysis aids the control of unobserved disruptions associated with crop diversity [23]. The F test, Lagrange Multiplier (LM) test, and Hausman-speciﬁcation test were used to decide among Pool OLS model, Fixed Effect Model (FEM), and Random Effect Model (REM). The model framework for identifying the determinants of crop diversiﬁcation among the Indian states can be written as: siij = α0 + α1ciij + α2iiij + α3ﬁij + α4raindevij + α5troadij + α6lnpgsdpij + α7crintij + α8lnupopij + ϵij where, si indicates Shannon-Wiener index, ci indicates cropping intensity, ii indicates irrigation intensity, ﬁindicates fertiliser intensity, raindev indicates rainfall deviation, troad indicates total road infrastructure, lnpgsdp indicates log of gross-state-domestic products per person, crint indicates credit intensity, and lnupop indicates log of urban population. i denotes the state, i.e., 1, 2, 3, . . . , 20 (only major states were considered) and j denotes the year, i.e., from 1971–1972, 1972–1973, 1973–1974, . . . , 2017–2018. 3. Results and Discussion 3.1. Changes in the Crop Area Share Changes in the area of share of speciﬁc crops might be used to make a preliminary prediction. Primarily, Indian agriculture was dominated by rice and wheat. The ‘green revolution’ was one of the reasons for cultivating traditional crops in India, to immediately solve the acute food crisis in the country. Following the success of the ‘green revolution’, rice and wheat production had increased in leaps and bounds. Nonetheless, after 2000, the scenario of Indian agriculture changed again. It was inevitable that the areas with horticultural crops and spices had increased exponentially (Table 1). Due to multiple schemes or micro-missions that were set up under the technological mission, the area under pulses increased, which exerted an impact on productivity. However, it was not until the 1990s that production took another leap forward. Despite that, due to negligence, the situation repeated itself. Because most Indian farmers gave pulses a low priority, producing them on neglected and marginal areas that were unable to support other crops.