 Afterwards these boiled seeds are kept Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3605 Preparation of sanna 3606 Preparation of mimil in aluminum vessel (which is big and circular in shape) and covered with banana leaves. Cloth, gunny bag or rice straw is also placed over the banana leaf and kept as such for 4 days. Afterwards it is stirred after putting some hot water and again it is tied in gunny bag for one night. Now it is ready for consumption. The tribal people pack these seeds in banana leave for carrying to market (for selling). It fetches good money in the market. It is in vogue since time immemorial and it is a nutritious (protein) food, especially for sick person. Keywords: trtung rymbai, beans, banana leaves, protein Sanna preparation is similar to that of idli. Parboiled rice is soaked and ground well. Coconut toddy, grated coconut, vinegar and jaggery are added to the mixture, and then it is ground and kept separately. The mixture is stirred well and kept overnight for fermentation. The next morning, it is cooked like idli in a pressure cooker or using idli-maker. This gives special taste and is native preparation of Goa. Keywords: sanna, idli A rice variety, that is more sticky, is preferred for preparing mimil. For it, two pots of equal size are taken, one having hole at bottom. Water is filled up to half capacity in the pot (without hole) and it is covered with thin cotton cloth. In the second pot (with hole) banana or sal leaf is placed at bottom and rice grains with sesame seeds and sugar are kept on the leaf. The mouth of the pot is covered with another leaf and over it a wooden plate is kept. Pot Shri Tato Gawas Parye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3607 Preparation of hawaichar from soybean 3608 Preparation of naming from colocassia rhizomes and fish (half filled with water) is placed on fire and second pot (having rice) is placed over it. After complete cooking rice is taken out with leaf and served for eating. Keywords: stickiness, mimil, pot, hole, cotton cloth Local variety of soybean is collected and immersed in water.