 Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Samtoli, block Simdega, dist. Simdega (Jharkhand). PRA and field study A field study was carried out by using PRA tools covering 20 respondents. The ITK was compared with allopathic treatment on selected parameters, viz. extent of cure, duration of treatment, cost effectiveness, safety, increase in milk yield and effect on general health. Experiment The experiment was conducted with three replications having two treatments each. In first treatment harjore paste was applied over the Fig. 1. Treatment of fracture by paste of harjoren in cattle, buffalo and goats   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1. Assessment of performance of harjore and plaster of paris in treatment of fracture in cattle Criterion Paste ofPlaster of harjoreparis Extent of cure 7 8 Time taken in bone healing3 3 Cost effectiveness 10 2 Safety 6 2 Movement after cure 8 9 Licking of plaster 7 9 Perfect draft capacity 6 8 affected part, and in the second treatment plaster of paris was spread over the part. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data generated from field survey reveal that farmers believe that harjore paste is 70% effective in bone healing as compared to 80% of allopathic system of plastering with plaster of paris (Table1). The time taken for bone healing is similar in ITK and allopathic system. However, the material used in ITK is cheaper and safer also. According to farmers’ perception the ITK is very valuable for cure of the cases of fracture in animals. Experiment Results presented in Table 2 show that after application of paste of harjore, 33.3% of affected animals showed recovery within 30 days, whereas in case of plaster of paris the recovery was 66.6%. Besides, one out of three cases could not recover even after 90 days of treatment with the ITK. In allopathic system of treatment 100% cases recovered within 60 days. Table 2. Effect of paste of harjore and plaster of paris on bone healing Days after Recovery (%) treatmentPaste of harjore Plaster of paris 1 to 15 0.00 0.00 30 33.3 66.6 60 66.6 100.0 90 66.6 - CONCLUSION It was concluded that harjore plant possesses bone- healing properties. VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 864 Title of the ITK : Treatment for fractured bone in cattle Description of the ITK : Farmers in hilly areas of Kardang village in Lahaul district of Himachal Pradesh generally practice this method for treating the fractured bone in cattle. Manu (Inula recemosa) is a herb used for the treatment of fractured bone. Manu is ground well and its extract is spread on the fractured bone and covered tightly with the use of cotton. This practice helps in repaire of the fractured bone. Name and address of the discloser : Mr. Prem Singh, Village and P.O.