 Efforts of ICAR during this period have been internationally appreciated and ICAR recommended advisories for the fishery sector have been recognized by the FAO, Rome. Livestock and fishery sectors have immense importance for Indian agriculture and to ensure good health of cattle and fishes ICAR is continuing to develop vaccines and diagnostics and during this year also good progress was made in this area. Registration of indigenous breeds of livestock and poultry was strengthened and 16 indigenous germplasm were registered this year. I am pleased that ICAR is not only focusing on developing technologies to increase production of various agri-commodities but working intensely with the farming community. Immediately after onset of COVID-19 pandemic ICAR issued guidelines and advisories for farmers of all the States and KVKs network exhibited ground level presence and supported the farmers with all means including innovative Agri-solutions, trainings and technology demonstrations. Agricultural education is vital to develop trained and skilled human resource to take up present and future challenges confronted by Indian agriculture due to climate change and constraints to natural resources and ICAR is fully committed for this. During this period ICAR issued advisories to Universities to take necessary steps to connect each student through online tools and guidelines were prepared for e-learning, implementation of Student READY programme, conducting examination etc. The National agricultural higher education project (NAHEP) has provided excellent support to universities and now implemented in 58 agricultural universities and 3 Deemed Universities across 23 states. ICAR remained exceedingly vibrant, fully realizing the dividends of digital technology to not only address the farmers’ needs but successfully organizing national and international events. ICAR’s continuous efforts in development of innovative technologies for the benefit of Indian farmers is praiseworthy. I hope that ICAR Annual Report 2020–21 will be useful to different stakeholders and boost the research and development in agriculture. (Narendra Singh Tomar) President ICAR Society ...the country is very well familiar with the green revolution and white revolution. Time has come to bring about the changes in the lives of our ﬁshermen brothers through blue revolution and to supplement the income of our farmers through honey-bee keeping and honey production. We have been working to bring blue revolution, sweet revolution along with green revolution and white revolution. — Narendra Modi Contents Foreword iii 1. Overview 1 2. Soil and Water Productivity 9 3. Climate Change and Resilient Agriculture 14 4. Genetic Resources 18 5. Crop Improvement 31 6. Livestock Improvement 57 7. Crop Management 62 8. Livestock Management 76 9. Mechanization and Energy Management 86 10. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition 94 11. Agricultural Human Resource Development 105 12. Social Science 126 13.