 l Seaweed extract based packaging materials are prepared from the poly- saccharide of the red seaweed Gracilaria edulis and Gelidiella acerosa and brown seaweed Sargassum wightii. l The seaweed-based bioplastics exhibit good physical, thermal and barrier properties and are ideal for packing a variety of food products. l These bioplastics are biodegradable, eco-friendly, naturally available, renewable and cheaper. The products serve as an alternative to the petroleum-based plastics. l The packaging materials can be prepared in various combinations with fish protein/ antioxidants / natural antimicrobial agent/ flavouring additives to make them edible and bio-functional. Commercialization and availability l The technology has been validated and ready for commercialization. l A process workflow is ready for demo- nstration to interested entrepreneurs. 19. CIFTEQ® Seaweed-based Packaging Materials Compiled by: Ashish Kumar Jha, S. Remya, K. Sarika and Jesmi Debbarma Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Gelidiella acerosa Gracilaria edulis Sargassum wightii 22 CIFTEQ® Seaweed Hand Sanitizer About the product l Carrageenan, an important prospective marine polysaccharide, extracted from marine red algae, is having a wide range of applications in the field of food, cosmetics, pharmaceutical and biomedical industries. l The formulations of seaweed-based products have also been found to be active against several enveloped viruses like herpes virus, cytomegalovirus, influenza virus and HIV. l The seaweed-based hand sanitizer is developed as a preventive hygienic measure to attenuate the incidence of the corona virus infection affecting the people massively all over the world. l The hand sanitizer contains a novel amphiphilic succinyl chitosan derivative as moisturizer and excipient. l The sanitizer comprises isopropyl alcohol (above 75%) and 0.2% carrageenan (extracted from red seaweed Kappaph- ycus alvarezii) found to have pronounced antimicrobial and antiviral properties. l In addition to improving the hygiene standards of people, the product ensures the effective utilization of seaweeds. Commercialization and availability l The technology of seaweed-based hand sanitizers is licensed to M/s. Kerala Nutraceutical Pvt Ltd. and the product is available in the market. l The product is being marketed as a skin- friendly hand sanitizer under the trade name “Zafora”. 20. CIFTEQ® Seaweed-based Hand Sanitizer Compiled by: R. Anandan, Niladri S. Chatterjee, Rehana Raj and Suseela Mathew Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Kappaphycus alvarezii Notes Notes  Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhavan, Dr. Rajendra Prasad Road, New Delhi-110001. Phone: (Off.