 Use of improved varieties with bold nuts, good kernel size of first grade quality, high shelling percentage and with very high yield can lead to high returns from cashew plantations. Hybrids like Priyanka, Dhana, and Poornima Midlands of Kannur, Kasargode Kollam, Palkkad, Malappuram, Kozhikode Development of High density orchards Adoption of High Density Planting with 625 tress/ha at a spacing of 4m x 4m proved to be better than normal density of planting with 170-180 trees/ha, at spacing of 7.5mx7.5m , for realizing maximum production in the initial years of cashew plantation. This can be brought to the normal density by selective felling or can be managed by regular pruning and fertilizer application. 276 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Spices and Black Pepper Improved varieties Improved varieties in pepper can improve yield levels and reduce cost of production thereby enhancing farm income. The varietal technology adoption needs to be strengthened through facilitation of access and availability of planting material across the state. Some of the varieties in spice crops and their varietal characteristics are given below. Girimunda, IISR Malabar Excel KAU varieties: Varieties for open condition- Panniyur 1, 2, 3 Vijay Partially shaded situation – Panniyur 5, 8 Sreekara, Subhakara High altitude – Panniyur 9, For disease prone areas- Panniyur 8, Panniyur5 For drought prone areas Panniyur 5, 8. Scientific management practices Prophylactic plant protection measures, Shade regulation, Timely and adequate manuring, Moisture conservation measures, Open precision farming, Timely under planting and replanting, Grafted planting materials. Post-harvest practices: Cleanliness during harvesting, threshing, drying and storage, Avoiding contact with chemicals, soil and other contaminants during harvest, drying and storage. Spices: Cardamon Location specific varieties: Improved and high yielding varieties, varieties suitable for drought prone areas. Varieties PV 2 and Njallani Green Gold suited to Idukki distrit Malabar types like TDK 4, ICRI- 1, ICRI-5, ICRI- 6 are suited for drought prone areas ICRI- 7 for Wayanad Highlands of Idukki, Wayanad and Palakkad Selection of appropriate planting material In Kerala where viral diseases are not a problem, vegetative propagates can be used for planting. Rapid clonal multiplication: Closer spacing and good management practices, Easy and cheap method Spices : Ginger Use of high yielding varieties Varieties like IISR Varada, Athira, Karthika, AswathyVarada, Rejatha, Mahima are high yielding varieties with good quality Highland and midlands of Wayanad, Idukki, Palakkad, Kollam and Pathanamthitta.