 Of the successful candidates, 28% secured more than 90% marks against the filed bench mark of 75 % and about 49% secured between 80-89.9% marks and only 7% candidates had secured less than 73% marks. Out of 48 disciplines, all disciplines except eight disciplines, viz Agricultural Statistics, Biotechnology (PS), Computer Application in Agriculture, Fish and Fishery Science, Plant Pathology, Plant Physiology, Seed Technology and Soil Chemistry/Fertility/ Microbiology candidates got hundred per cent promotion. ❑ A systematic approach to develop and continuously improve organizational and individual competencies and capabilities is necessary for achieving organisational goals and objectives effectively. Human resource in an organization is the most crucial, vital and dynamic resource. Over the period, the Human Resource Management functions have undergone significant changes. Organizations are attaching tremendous importance to the management and development of their personnel. There is increasing recognition that the individual in an organization is a key resource and should not be simply looked upon as a cost. There is always need to improve competency in terms of skills, knowledge and attitude of the employees through appropriate training and development programmes from time to time. An employee becomes more efficient and productive if he/she is trained well as per training needs and competency gaps. To strengthen and facilitate training and capacity building of all categories of ICAR employees, the HRM Unit was established in September 2014 with the objectives: (i) Overall coordination, monitoring, implementation and management of training needs and HR policies for the Council. (ii) Evaluate and advice on all strategic HR needs and requirements of the Council. During 2015-16, several initiatives were taken to strengthen training and capacity building of the ICAR employees and some accomplishments were attained as given below. Nomination of HRD Nodal Officers For effective implementation of training functions at the Institute, all 108 ICAR Institutes nominated HRD Nodal Officers for their Institute. The HRD Nodal Officers developed the Annual Training Plan (ATP) for various categories of employees-based on Training Need Assessment (TNA) along with organization of suitable trainings. They also ensured effective implementation of ATP. Developing database of training details in ERP system Availability of complete and comprehensive database of training details of all the employees provide a logical backup for assessing the training needs/gaps and helps in planning current and the future training programmes. Complete training details of about 2,710 (54.5%) scientists, 585 (10.5%) technical, 443 (11.5%) administrative personnel and 73 (1.3%) SSS are available in the ERP system. There would be complete database of training of all the employees in the near future.