 Applicable to all regions in India, and particularly for the urban super markets. Also has potential in Export markets. Value added fish products like, pickle, gravy mix, sausages, burgers, etc. Ideal technologies for small scale entrepreneurs in fisheries sector. Can be an option for product diversification and enhancing income from value addition. ICAR-CIFT has commercially viable technology package for each product and till date more than 200 SHG’s and entrepreneurs have licensed these technologies. Applicable to all regions in India. Extruded snack from fish Extruded fish-based snacks are nutritionally superior to the conventional starch based extruded products available in market. ICAR- CIFT has the technology package for the production extruded fish and shellfish- based snacks. Extruder lines are available for trial production. Licensed the technology to 5 units. Applicable to all regions in India. High value by-products from rest raw materials Fish and shell fish processing operations generate significant quantity of rest raw material which are the sources for high value by-products viz., chitin, chitosan, chitin derivatives, collagen peptides, Applicable to all regions in India. Also has the potential for export markets. 291 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement nutraceuticals etc. Utilisation of rest raw material solve the problem of waste generation in processing and offer higher returns from the available raw material. The technology packages for commercialisation are available with ICAR-CIFT. Strategies 2: Utilizing Waste Lands/ fallow lands for enhan- Cing production Re-cultivation of fallow lands. Reclamation of degraded lands. Terrace and contour making in difficult terrain lands for arable purpose. Adoption of soil conservation measures and installation of bunds and other artificial structures to check erosion. Growing cover crops in sloppy areas. Consolidation of fragmented holdings. Restricting conversion of farm lands for commercial purposes. All regions. Strategy 3: Promoting Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) Identifying and diagnosing impacts of climate change with reference to specific crops and local conditions. Managing landscapes for improving sustainability, building resilience and mitigating adverse impacts. Water management at watershed and river basin for minimizing vulnerability of production systems. Promotion and extension of improved technologies i.e., seed, integrated nutrient management (INM) including micronutrients, soil amendments, integrated pest management (IPM), input use efficiency and resource conservation technologies along with capacity building of the farmers/extension functionaries. Demonstration and popularization of heat and salt tolerant crop varieties, promotion of micro-irrigation system, etc.