 This seasonal reduction in CO2 might also get affected from the meso-convective process, deposition of HCO3 (Iavorivska et al., 2016), along with enhanced photosynthetic fixation due to the increased soil moisture and vegetation cover (Chhabra and Gohel, 2019; Gupta et al., 2019). Since there is high CO2 uptake by vegetation, we observe negative or nearly zero NEE in most regions in this season. Furthermore, the presence of clouds during this season decreases the air temperature, thereby reducing the leaf and soil respiration rate, which eventually increases the carbon uptake (Sreenivas et al., 2016). Furthermore, our analyses show that CO2 concentration reaches a minimum of 392 ppm in September and a gradual increase from October to December in India. The reason for such large variability in atmospheric CO2 concentration is the seasonal activities that alter the atmospheric carbon balance. For instance, the mainland of India experiences the northeast monsoon winds in horizontal and vertical directions, causing upwelling of CO2 enriched air in this season; resulting in net gain in the surface CO2 concentrations (Krishnapriya et al., 2020). This might be a reason for the gradual increase in the CO2 concentration in the rabi (October to February) season. The seasonal increase in CO2 concentration with the onset of the agricultural season might also find a relation with the land preparation activities before crops are sown, which releases CO2 trapped in soil layers. However, due to this transition, the net photosynthesis from vegetation over croplands is significantly reduced during the initial period of rabi season (Chhabra and Gohel, 2019). The rabi crops are also called winter crops as they are cultivated between October and February, resulting in differential growth rates during winter months (December to February). Therefore, strong respiration and weak photosynthesis take place during the early crop growth stage, which contribute significantly to enhanced levels of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. Apart from these, the air mass is transported from the northwest land regions in this season at all regions, about 85%. However, the peninsular India receive much of its air mass (95%) from the Bay of Bengal in this season, which makes the relatively lower CO2 concentrations there. Anthropogenic activities like irrigation through diesel pumps during the winter months consume large amounts of fossil fuel energy, ensuring the release of CO2 into the atmosphere. In addition, there is no or little precipitation over most regions of India during this period and rabi crops are cultivated depending on residual soil moisture. Therefore, vegetation in this season is greatly reduced in most areas of India as observed with lower NDVI values during rabi season compared to that in the kharif season, except for places like the Peninsular India (PI) region. As a result, CO2 uptake by 6 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al.