 With the use of numerous cri- teria, MCDM is used to solve diﬃcult spatial decision issues and design structures. For LSA in agriculture and plantation, ten crite- ria were used: geology, slope, LULC, soil texture, geomorphology, soil pH, soil N, P, and K. The seven stages of the MCDM-based AHP approach employed in this work are: (i) criterion selection, (ii) rank determination, (iii) pairwise comparison, (iv) weight cal- culation, (iv) score determination, (vi) weighted overlay analysis, and (vii) accuracy assessment. The study’s district, Anantapur, is in southern India, where the hot, humid weather and scant precipitation lead to groundwater shortages and generally deplorable socioeconomic circumstances. A large portion of this region’s groundwater levels are dropping as a result of the aforementioned processes, land degradation, and in- cluding human effects. LSA investigations are therefore necessary. On the other hand, this study concentrated more on developing al- ternative thematic maps and less on analysing the ﬁndings. The main objective of the study are to prepare various thematic maps, and to prepare LSA maps for sustainable agricultural de- velopment in the semi-arid regions of India using the integrated approaches. The LSA result aids planners and decision-makers in their selection of effective land-use choices. Land use data allows for a better knowledge of features of land use such as cropping patterns, fallow land, forest wastelands, surface and groundwater, land potential, soil characteristics, and other factors that are criti- cal for development and planning. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Study area The study area falls in the Northeastern part of the Anantapur district in the Rayalaseema region of southern India and is situated between 77 °57 ′ and 78 °06 ′ North latitude and 14 °30 ′ and 14 °45 ′ Eastern longitude in the SOI topographical maps 57 K/7, 8, 11, 12, 15, and K/16. An excellent network of roads serves the region. It is around 76 kilometers from Anantapur city. The Chitravathi River is the region’s primary supply of drinkable water. The region is mostly covered in black cotton soils. Paddy, groundnut, and jowar have been grown by local farmers. Rain falls in the study region during the South-West monsoon, which lasts from June to Septem- ber, and the North-East monsoon, which lasts from May to Novem- ber. Anantapur, however, receives little rainfall due to its location away from the coastal zone. The rainfall from the South-West mon- soon is further reduced by the high Western Ghats. Rainfall in this area is variable during the later half of the North-East monsoon season since it is heavily impacted by depressions in the Bay of Bengal. Even though overall rainfall appears to be enough, poor distribution causes partial or complete crop failure for many years. 2.2. Data used The current study aims to determine the LSA of the study re- gion in the drought-prone zone of Andhra Pradesh, India.