 About 339 capacity building and need based interventions/ awareness programmes were organised for upliftment of the farmers in the SC clusters. Tutorial classes 514 in number were conducted for Personality Development Programme, Basic English Proficiency, Training programme on Entrepreneurial skill (startupreneur), Soft skills training programme and for preparing students to national/ international competitive examinations benefitting 4,544 students. Active coordination with AUs on various aspects To actively review, refine and strengthen various programmes implemented by the Education Division of ICAR, the virtual annual meeting of Vice Chancellors’ was successfully held on 10 April 2020 and preparedness for lockdown situation and strategies for COVID-19 pandemic was reviewed. This also provides an opportunity to the Vice-Chancellors of AUs to interact with each other and develop strategy for effective functioning to maintain quality standards in higher agricultural education in the country. The virtual Nodal Officers meetings were conducted on 8 May 2020 and 11 June 2020. All the nodal officers were apprised of the steps taken by ICAR and necessary steps to be taken by universities during the pandemic situation were identified. The Council issued advisories to all the AUs to take necessary steps to connect each student through various online tools for their classes, assignments and other related activities, so that there is no time lag in the schedule of academic session. Further, the Education Division has identified the IT solutions and shared with the universities to avail the available online options by all the concerned. The ICAR Model Act based on the recommendations of the Committee and comments received from various stakeholders was revised. Various webinars were also conducted, viz. webinar on 20 May 2020 titled Science, Society and Exponential Change: Reimagining the Future on 21 May 2020 titled ICT tools for the resilient agricultural education in India for the benefit of Directors, Vice Chancellors, Scientists, academic administrators, faculty and students of agricultural universities. A talk on Initiatives in Research, Teaching, Extension and Administration by Padma Sri Prof B.S. Dhillon was also organized on 10 June 2020. The Agricultural Education Division took initiatives to maximize the online work in view of the prevailing pandemic. Online Accreditation portal was launched on 11 August 2020 and also to obtain the required information from the AUs for national ranking,online system has been developed. Various activities under Schedule Tribe Component Support under Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) This is an umbrella strategy started in the Fifth and Sixth plan by the planning commission to ensure flow of targeted financial and physical benefits from all the general sectors of development for the benefit of Scheduled Castes. Under this component total ` 4,393.