 While doing so the distinction between merit promotion upto S-3 covered by Rule 19 on the one hand and "promotion based on outstanding performance" under Rule 12 of the Rules of the ARS on the other hand shall be given due attention on the recommendations of the Committee/guidance of Chairman, ASRB as far as possible. 12. The Committee shall then decide on the performance of the scientists by taking into consideration the documents mentioned in para 3(ii) above. The personal discussion with the scientist will not be a routine or formal type of interview to judge the theoretical knowledge and academic calibre of the scientisis, but will provide an opportunity to him to project his work and achievements during the period under assessment as well as to clarify and elaborate any specific aspect of work. The scientist will be free to add to or augment his record of work and may also bring to the notice of the Committee any bottlenecks that proved a constraint in his research output and functioning. 13. On the basis of their assessment the scientists will be recom- mended advance increment(s) or the Grade S-4 scale of pay as personal to 54 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE them or nothing as the case may b;. The total number of advance increments to be given will not exceed three. One advance increment means one increment over and above the normal annual increment. 14. The assessment of scientists should be more rigorous and their tuitability for grant of next higher pay-scale shall be adjudged by the Committee on the basis of whether their performance has been outstanding or not rather than on the basis of long and meritorious service. 15. As far as possible, the recommendations of the Assessment Committee may be finalised under the guidance of the Chairman, ASRB. III. S-3 Scientists of ARS holding higher pay scale-personal to them or research management position in Grade S-4 and above 1. The following criteria will be adopted for the five-yearly assess- ment of (i) S-3 Scientists of ARS holding higher pay scale personal to them or research management position in grade S-4 and above. (i) Professional performance in relation to the duties and tasks assigned. (ii) Spirit of co-operation and team work, (iii) Managerial/organization abilities/attributes, (iv) Personal/behavioural abilities/attributes. 2. Emphasis in the assessment will be on the contributions and achievements of the individual in relation to the requirements of the job and duties assigned to the scientists during the period 'of assessment. More consideration shall be given to the qualitative achievements of a scientist rather than to his quantitative achievments. An assessment system serves more than the obvious function of rewarding scientists by promotion or advance increments. It helps the individuals to identify and develop those aspects of their personality and performance, on which the organisation, they work for, lays emphasis.