 Bio-formulations like biopower and bioforce when applied to partially substitute bio-regulators, improved significantly vine traits like shoot length, yield/vine and berry characters, whereas another bio-formulation ‘Combine’ affected only berry characteristics. Spraying of anti-stress, a poly carbon acrylic formulation, before or after spraying of fungicides significantly reduced the disease incidence and sporulation of the pathogens, increasing the efficacy of fungicide. Yield in Botryodiplodia infected vines could be improved by treatment with fungicides or Trichoderma. Cent per cent recovery was obtained by treating Botryodiplodia infected cuttings with hot water at 60°C for 45 minutes. Thompson Seedless clone 2A, which was introduced from the USA in 2000, was found free from Botryodiplodia infection, while H5, introduced as an improved clone of Thompson Seedless, had few infected canes. PAPAYA At IIHR, Bangalore, Pusa Nanha and Pusa Dwarf were found to be dwarf. The hybrid, Surya, was found to be superior in quality having smaller cavity, dark pink in colour and higher TSS content compared to its parents. Papaya Coorg Honey Dew and Pink Flesh Sweet were promising with regard to yield as well as quality. At Coimbatore, 4 gynodioecious accessions recorded higher fruit yield with better fruit qualities. Application of 10 litres of water per day with 6 g each N and K2O per week through fertigation and soil application of 45 g P2O5/plant in bimonthly interval improved growth, yield and quality characters of CO2 papaya. Application of neem oil (1.0%) and dimethoate (1.5%) in combination increased fruit yield and recorded low incidence of PRSC. SAPOTA At IIHR, Bangalore, 31 accessions of sapota are being maintained. Sapota PKM 1 having resistance to various insect pests and diseases was superior in growth and yield at Periyakulam. An open-pollinated seedling selection having 92 g fruits with a few (2–3) seeds has been released as PKM 4 from Periyakulam. Under AICRP on Tropical Fruits a total of 20 varieties at Gandevi, 20 at Arabhavi, ROOTSTOCK IN GRAPES The rootstock Bangalore Blue performed better for Thompson Seedless scion, producing highest number of bunches and yield/vine (8.5 kg). For Arkavati salinity and drought tolerant rootstock Dogridge produced highest number of bunches (95) and yield/vine (12.5 kg/vine), whereas in Arka Kanchan, Thompson Seedless when used as a rootstock improved the bunch number (142) and yield (24 kg). None of the rootstocks used appreciably altered the quality of berries. On comparing productivity of Thompson Seedless and Arkavati on Bower and other training systems, Thompson Seedless produced highest yield (18 kg/vine) on Tatura system followed by Bower system (11 kg/vine). l Thirty-one accessions of sapota have been maintained at IIHR, Bangalore. l Forty-two accessions of litchi were maintained at NRC for Litchi.