 Summer/Winter Schools (SWS) and Short Courses Since 1967, ICAR has been sponsoring the organization of Summer School/Winter School/ Short Courses in the discipline of Agriculture, Veterinary, Animal Sciences, Fisheries and Food Technology, etc. across the ICAR-AU system. The purpose of organizing these courses is to bring about qualitative improvement and to update the teachers, researchers and extension specialists with the latest knowledge and techniques in the field of their specialization, provide necessary orientation to contemporary problems, provide a common forum for co-professionals to interact and exchange experiences and also to maintain feedback to make research and education more relevant. This activity has helped to bring out qualitative improvement in their pedagogical skills and also update their knowledge in the specialized/emerging areas thereby contributing to development of skilled human resources for making research and education more relevant. A Capacity Building Program (CBP) portal is operational as a workflow based online management system of all training programs. Each year 70 such programmes are supported by the Council leading to the capacity building of the stakeholders in upcoming newer areas. 6.6. Niche Area of Excellence (NAE) ICAR initiated this program for building excellence in specific strategic areas in education and research and includes improving specific area of research with quality human resource, along with creating facilities as well as environment for access to information, recognition and interaction with best of peer groups shared competitiveness in agricultural education and research. Total 71 programmes have been supported under this component since its inception in 2006-2007. Under various programs till date, 561 students obtained Masters degrees and 236 students completed Ph.D. degrees. The mandatory training programmes under this component led to horizontal capacity building in cutting edge areas and Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 325 awareness programmes and demonstrations, which made farmers aware about the newer technologies. A total of 860 capacity building programmes were conducted in various centres across country, leading to capacity building of 3260 faculty, 46672 farmers and 10279 other stakeholders (Jain et al, 2014, 2020). 7. Digitization of learning resources 7.1. e-Courses The Agricultural Education Division institutionalized, upscaled, supported and enabled development of e-Courses for the degree level programmes in seven disciplines viz., Agriculture, Fishery Sciences, Dairy Science, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Home Science and Agricultural Engineering by subject matter specialists of the respective disciplines as per ICAR approved syllabus. On July, 2013 e-Learning Portal on Agriculture Education or e-Krishi Shiksha was made available online at https:// ecourses.icar.gov.in/ for agricultural students.