 Twenty-five farmers from five different villages, adopted under the Farmer FIRST Programme, participated. All selected households were either marginal or small-scale farmers. The experimental fields had irrigation facilities using bore- wells. The predominant cropping system in the area is rice-wheat, and the main farming system includes crop + horticulture + livestock. The soils are sandy loam with an average pH of 7.5, electrical conductivity of 0.26 dS/m, organic carbon at 0.43%, available nitrogen at 268.3 kg/ha, phosphorus at 26.3 kg/ha, and potassium at 216.1 kg/ha. Crop sowing and harvesting periods, recommended fertilizer doses, and varieties for each cropping system are shown in Table 1. Recommended doses of nitrogen (N), phosphorus (P), and potassium (K) were applied to different crops using urea, diammonium phosphate (DAP), and muriate of potash (MOP), respectively. In every system, kharif season rice was grown under rainfed/irrigated conditions, while rabi/summer crops received irrigation at critical growth stages. Need-based intercultural and plant-protection measures were adopted for different crops. All five cropping systems were allocated in each farmer’s field, with each cropping system occupying a 500 m² block, i.e., 100 m² per system in each farmer’s plot. The experiment was conducted at the same site during both years of study. Rice was the initial crop in all crop sequences. Weather conditions were conducive for crop growth throughout the three years of experimentation. Recommended practices were followed for all crops in different cropping systems. Data on yield for all crops were carefully recorded. To compare the productivity of different cropping systems, yields were converted to rice-equivalent yield (REY) using the formula below: Rice equivalent yield (REY) = [Vegetable yield (kg/ha) × Vegetable price (`/kg)] / Price of rice (`/kg) The gross economic return was calculated based on the prevailing market prices of the commodities. The economics (cost of cultivation and gross return) and rice-equivalent yield were computed using the farm gate prices of the produce. Yield of vegetables The average yield and performance of vegetable- based cropping systems during 2020-21 to 2022-23 are presented in Table 2. During the kharif season, under low midland conditions, the average rice yield ranged from 41.47 to 47.58 q/ha. During the rabi season, wheat yield was 45.14 q/ha in the system where wheat followed rice. In the system where wheat was replaced by vegetables after rice, the vegetable yield during the rabi season ranged from 101.1 q/ha (pea) to 308.5 q/ha (tomato). During the zaid season, vegetable yield ranged from 112.8 q/ha for okra to 270.82 q/ha for pumpkin. Rice equivalent yield (REY) Total productivity of different cropping sequences was determined by calculating Rice equivalent yield based on the yield of component crops. Under low midland conditions, the highest average REY (314.