 Farmers are of the opinion that this system of making alternative layers of Calotropis and tobacco leaves improves the quality of the tobacco during curing. These layers are kept for about 10 days, till a peculiar smell emanates from them indicating ripening of leaves (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Srisuvalal (1996b) 86 Prevention of shedding of boll of cotton by use of castor oil Flowers and young bolls are often shed in cotton crop due to high temperature. To minimize this problem, farmers pour castor oil (approximately 50 ml) near the stem in the soil believing that it would cool the soil (Bharuch, Gujarat). Karamiya (1992) 87 Use of magha rain water as growth promoter Farmers store rain water received during the magha in the monsoon for future use. They believe that it works as growth promoter on the standing crop. According to them, the stored water does not get spoiled (Rajkot, Gujarat). Kapadia (1997b) 88 Prunning for higher boll formation in cotton Cotton plants grow tall in the highly fertilized field with good rainfall. Farmers cut the top branch of the plant which check the erect growth of the plant.It is believed that such practice imparts good flowering and retards vegetative growth (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Patel (1991f) 89 Minimizing the effect of frost in cotton by fumigation and irrigation Farmers practice fumigation and irrigation in the fields of cotton when they anticipate frost. Fumigation is done by cowdung cake, used engine oil or waste grass. They have been practicing this for the last 20 years. Some farmers make tall hedges around the field to protect the crop from frost (Mehsana, Gujarat). Dayabhai (1992) 90 To induce lateral branching in chickpea by nibbling by sheep Farmers get their chickpea crop nibbled by sheep, apparently to encourage lateral branching. This method is to check apical dominance, auxins present at shoot apex are removed by branching (Mahendragarh, Haryana). Anonymous (1991a) 39 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 91 Ratoon crop of okra Cotton, a major crop in the Vadodara and Surat districts in Gujarat, is being replaced by vegetables owing to the high incidence of infestations by various insects pests and diseases in cotton over the last few years. Some farmers took to cultivating vegetables because transportation facilities to surrounding urban markets are very good. Okra is an all season crop but farmers prefer to grow it in the premonsoon (May) and prewinter (September) periods. Most okra growing farmers sow the crop more or less at the same time which leads to a market glut and causes the price to fall sharply. Okra, cannot be stored to be sold later when better prices can be had. The problem also bothered the growers and they were constantly on the lookout for a way to regulate the harvest of okra.