 Agroclimatic zones The following five zones are broadly based on the soil and climatic characteristics, and coordinated trials are being conducted there since several years. I. Northern Hills Zone Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, hills of West Bengal and North-eastern States II. North Western Plains Zone Punjab, Haryana, northern Rajasthan, Delhi, western Uttar Pradesh III. North Eastern Plains Zone Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, West Bengal, Odisha and parts of Asom IV. Central Zone Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, southern Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, V. Southern Zone Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala 8. Description of morphological features Minimum traits required for distinctness, uniformity and stability of a variety may be decided by the workshop (Annexure-VI). 9. Others Information on the available DNA markers (based on the availability) is also to be recorded. Sugarcane 1. Important characters on which data should be recorded A. Yield (i) Cane yield (tonnes/ha) after 10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest (ii) CCS tonnes/ha after 10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest B. Yield components (i) Number of millable canes (thousand/ha) after10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest (ii) Single cane weight (kg) after 10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest (iii) Stalk diameter (cm) after 10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest (iv) Stalk length (cm) after 10 months for early and after 12 months for mid-late at harvest C. Agronomic features (i) Germination (%) at 30 days for tropics and 45 days for sub-tropics (ii) No. of tillers (thousand/ha) at 120 days (iii) No. of shoots (thousand/ha) at 240 days (iv) Flowering: Absent (A), present (P) (v) Leaf sheath spines: Absent (A), present (P), medium (M), heavy (H) (vi) Internode splits: Absent (A), present (P), low (L), moderate (M), heavy (H) (vii) Canopy structure and colour: Green, light green, yellowish green, dark green (viii) Bud size: Big (B), small (S), medium (M) 70 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (ix) Pithiness: Absent (A), present (P), less (L), heavy (H) D. Quality parameters (i) Brix (%) at 8 and 10 months for early and at 10 and 12 months for mid-late (ii) Sucrose percentage in juice at 8 and 10 months for early and at 10 and 12 months for mid-late (iii) Purity percentage at 8 and 10 months for early and at 10 and 12 months for mid-late (iv) CCS (%) at 8 and 10 months for early and at 10 and 12 months for mid-late (v) Extraction (%) after 10 months for early and after 12 months at harvest (vi) Fibre percentage after 10 months for early and after 12 months at harvest (vii) Pol (%) cane after 10 months for early and after 12 months at harvest E.