 The peeling operation is combined with a water-spray system for the removal of peel during the operation to increase peeling efficiency. The material of construction is stainless (SS 304) steel. A re-circulatory water system reduces water consumption and effluent disposal issues. The peeling efficiency is about 92% for Safed muesli and 55% for Shatavari. The capacity of the machine is about 15–20 kg/h which is 30 times higher than manual operation. The machine is run by a 3 hp electric motor. Pedal-operated de-bunching tool for medicinal tuber crops: Medicinal plants (Safed muesli and Shatavari) have bunches of roots with their apex ends attached. Currently, the roots are separated by manually cutting with a knife which is tedious and risky. Pedal-operated de-bunching equipment consists of a working table mounted with a spring-operated C-shaped blade, a tank for raw material and a discharge spout. The capacity of the machine is approximately 10 kg/h, with a de-bunching efficiency of 88%. Power - operated baby corn de-husker: Baby corn (Zea mays) ear head with husks needs to be removed before it is further processed or stored. A power-operated baby corn de-husker has been developed consisting of a slitting section and de- husking cum desilking section. The slitting section is provided with a feed inlet pipe and two pairs of swinging arm rollers having a pair of knives. One knife is fixed between the top set of rollers and the second knife is fixed between a bottom set of rollers. A rubber fitting is provided over the remaining rollers to ensure a delicate handling/de-husking of baby corn which facilitates the flexibility to bend inwards in the feed section to accommodate different contours and geometry of baby corns. The husk is slitted on both sides longitudinally in the slitting section. After slitting, it passes to de-husking cum desilking section comprising of four rollers (300 mm in length and 75 mm in diameter) with a brush made of food-grade nylon. De-husked baby corns are collected at the main outlet, whereas husks and silky portions are collected in the husk collector set beside the machine. The slitting section and de-husking cum desilking section are operated by 0.5 hp and 1.0 hp electric motors, respectively. It has a capacity of 25 kg/h. Slitting efficiency, de-husking efficiency and desilking efficiency of the machine are 100, 92, and 100%, respectively. Electronic nose (e-Nose) for real-time health monitoring of onion, potato and tomato under storage: An electronic sensing system (e-Nose) has been 11. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 133 collecting tray. A 5-hp engine operated blower supplies air for cleaning. Air from the blower is passed through the onions falling inside the material flow bed during the process of cleaning. The feed inlet is mounted on the main frame to feed the onions on to the cleaning unit.