 Pulses are the second most important group of crops next 21 Odisha 396 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 to cereals in Odisha. The state grows ten important pulse crops namely, greengram, blackgram, pigeonpea, horsegram, lentil, gram, cowpea, rajmah, lathyrus and ricebean. Groundnut, sesame, castor, mustard, niger, sunflower, safflower, soybean and linseed are the major oilseed crops grown in the state. Of these, groundnut, sesame, mustard and niger are the major ones. Now, sunflower is gaining popularity in the State. The oilseed situation demands to enhance the production to meet the domestic need. Among the fiber crops, jute and mesta are the most important ones. Jute is mainly cultivated in the coastal districts of undivided Balasore, Cuttack & Anandpur subdivision of Keonjhar and Mesta in the interior districts of Mayurbhanj, Keonjhar and Koraput. The area under jute & mesta is shrinking fast, mainly due to invasion of polythene & synthetic fibers as a cheaper & convenient substitute in addition to the inadequate marketing support. The agro-climatic condition of the State is favourable for production of brinjal, chilli, tomato, okra, cucurbits, greens and bean, peas. Odisha is the second largest producer of vegetables in the country next to West Bengal. The major vegetables having commercial significance grown in the State are solanaceous vegetables (brinjal, tomato and chilli), cole crops (cauliflower, cabbage, knolkhol), cucurbits, okra, legumes, greens and tropical tuber crops (sweet potato, dioscorea, amorphophalus, colocasia). The vegetable growers of the State are now taking much interest in cultivation of hybrid vegetables and high value exotic vegetables like broccoli, red cabbage, lettuce and Chinese cabbage. Major fruits grown in the State are mango, guava, citrus, banana, litchi, papaya, etc. Commercial floriculture has been identified as a profitable venture, which can open up great opportunities to the farmers. Besides, there is vast scope for promotion of allied sectors such as dairy, poultry, pisciculture, mushroom cultivation, bee keeping, value addition to agricultural produce, etc. 21.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints Productivity Gaps Yield rate is one of the major indicators to assess the production trend of the agriculture crops in the State. The yield rate of food grains in Odisha is below the average yield rates in some of the major States and at all India level. There is, therefore, a need for greater efforts through different policy interventions to increase the productivity of major crops. The average yield rate of rice has increased from 18.21 quintals per hectare in 2013-14 to 23.63 quintals per hectare in 2014-15. But during 2015-16 it declined to 14.91 quintal per hectare. However, the yield rate of Potato and Sugarcane decreased from 123.24 to 101.73 and from 719.51 to 644 quintals per hectare respectively during 2015-16 over previous year.