 After consuming parboiled brown rice, the blood glucose response area under the curve was lowered by 35% and 38% in diabetic and healthy participants, respectively. In both groups, blood glucose reactions to white rice and brown rice were not statistically different from one another [110]. Brown rice processed via parboiling and microwave drying may be beneﬁcial for patients with obesity and diabetes, as well as for individuals seeking healthier choices [118]. Parboiled germinated brown rice of KDML 105 has beneﬁcial bioactive components such as ferulic acid, p-coumaric acid, GABA, γ-oryzanol, and γ-tocotrienol, when compared to white rice and brown rice. These ﬁndings imply that frequent eating of parboiled rice may prevent liver cirrhosis and cancer by reducing inﬂammation and liver ﬁbrosis [125]. This was also supported by other studies which demonstrated that parboiled germinated brown rice is high in anti-inﬂammatory effects and could improve the cardiac structure in hypertension rats [126,127]. Moreover, serving parboiled rice powder with buttermilk every half an hour can prevent diarrhea in youngsters [128]. This apparent beneﬁt of parboiled rice consumption, which is not well publicized in the literature, must be acknowledged by consumers and food technologists in order for parboiled rice to be appropriately exploited in the improvement of human nutritional industries. Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 17 of 24 8. Wastewater Treatment Due to paddy’s need for soaking, the manufacture of parboiled rice typically consumes a considerable amount of water. The efﬂuent from rice mills is generally yellowish, features an offensive, pungent odor, and is composed of organic debris and other pollutants. A total of 1–1.2 L of wastewater are produced per kilogram of paddy [129]. The efﬂuents from rice parboiling plants do not include hazardous substances, but untreated wastewater is a rich source of organics and nutrients; thus, this wastewater’s regular disposal is an environmental hazard. The soak water includes a high concentration of suspended and dissolved organic compounds that decompose over time, resulting in water and groundwater contamination. Dischargeable wastewater from processing industries has contaminated the groundwater. Several water quality indices, including turbidity, acidity, biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), dissolved oxygen (DO), chemical oxygen demand (COD), iron, hardness, chloride, and sulphate, were identiﬁed [130]. Rice parboiling efﬂuent contains a high concentration of organic and inorganic ele- ments, constituting a substantial source of pollution [131]. Several studies are contradictory regarding the toxicity of rice parboiling wastewater efﬂuent to living organisms. Gerber et al. (2016) employed zebraﬁsh exposed to raw efﬂuent; they revealed negative correlations with indicators of sperm quality, acute toxicity, and chemical metrics for iron, phosphate, and total suspended solids concentrations [132]. Gerber et al.