 Nitrogen removal capacity of Pseudomonas aeruginosa WS L-9: Four different carbon sources namely acetate, glucose, citrate, and succinate were used for evaluating the nitrogen removal capacity of the isolate WS L-9. The results revealed that with the use of glucose and citrate as carbon source in the media, the nitrogen removal (ammonium-N) capacity of the isolate WS L-9 was more than 80%. The isolate could remove ammonium more than 80% and nitrate more than 60% after using glucose and citrate as C-sources in the media after 48 hr. Similarly, at pH 7 and 8, temperature 37oC and C:N ratio of 10, be nitrogen removal capability of this isolate was found to be more than 70%. ❑ Fish fingerlings being released into the Ganga river at Assai Ghat, Varanasi Fish fingerlings being released by students into the Ganga river at Arail Ghat, Prayagraj icar annual report 2022-23 126 10. Mechanization and Energy Management Tractor-operated side trencher and FYM applicator for grape orchards A tractor operated side trencher was developed at ICAR- CIAE, Bhopal to make trench up to 300 mm depth. It was tested in the vineyards at ICAR-NRCG, Pune. The effective field capacity and efficiency of the trencher are 0.2 ha/h and 71%, respectively when operated to dig a trench of 300 mm deep in 3 m wide vineyard at 2.0 km/h forward speed. The cost of operation was about ₹560/h. It saves cost of operation, labour and time by 72, 94 and 80%, respectively as compared to digging of trench manually with hand tools. The tractor-operated FYM applicator of 1 tonne capacity was also developed for placing FYM near the plant and tested in the vineyards at ICAR-NRCG, Pune. It is operated by hydraulic system of tractor, using hydraulic motor. The side dispensing units on both sides of machinery rotates outwards through power transmission from hydraulic motor and chain- sprocket arrangement. The observed application rate was 8–10 kg/m as per recommended dose of 25 tonnes/ha. The effective-field capacity and efficiency of FYM applicator are 0.2 ha/h and 71%, respectively at 2 km/h forward speed for 3.0 m wide rows of vineyards. The cost of operation is about ₹645/h. There was saving in labour, time and cost of operation by 98, 80 and 88%, respectively as compared to manual method. Tractor-operated drip lateral and plastic mulch layer-cum-planter A tractor-operated drip lateral and plastic mulch layer-cum-planter has been developed to perform various field operations such as raised bed formation, drip lateral and plastic mulch laying and placing metered seed in plastic mulch in single pass of the tractor. The effective-field capacity and efficiency of machine were 0.2 ha/h and 74%, respectively at forward speed of 1.7 km/h and operational width of 1 m. The total cost and operational cost of equipment was ₹ 3,00,000 and ₹ 1,500/h, respectively. The payback period of equipment was 1.9 years (444 h) and break- even point 70 h/year.