 The high level of magnesium in the pearl millet is known for controlling blood pressure, heart diseases and improving respiratory-related problems. Finger millet is a king of calcium source and the regular consumption of finger millet will enrich the calcium content in the body and helps for bone quality. Like pearl millet, finger millet also contains lysine, methionine and tryptophan in substantial quantity (Chandrasekara and Shahidi 2011; Devi et al. 2014). Of the 12% total dietary fibre in the grain, the insoluble dietary fibre content is 12% and soluble is 2% (Ramulu and Rao 1997). The high quality fibre food is very good for increasing the rate of nutrient absorption in the stomach, helps in reducing the blood lipids, prevents the colon cancer and improves the digestion (Tharanathan and Mahadevamma 2003). It is also noticed that germinated grain increases the haemoglobin content. The anti-oxidant rich grain extracts help in scavenging the free-radicals and have antimicrobial properties. Foxtail millet contains 11% and 4% of protein and fat, respectively. A range of anti-oxidants including carotenoids, phenols, and phenolic acids found in significant level in the grains (Saleh et al. 2013; Zhang and Liu 2015). The yellow grains are used for medicinal purposes such as to control bleeding and skin softening. Most of the digestive issues including, poor digestion and food movement in the stomach are improved by the regular consumption of the foxtail millet. The white grain is used for treating cholera and green seeds are used for kidney-related issues and improving virility. The good amount of protein (12.3%) and minerals (3.3%) in the grain are considered as a good source of food for over-all healthiness (Vithal and Machewad 2006). Like other millets, kodo millet is meant for its own nutritional superiority. The fibre content is 14.3% followed by protein (11.0%) and fat (4.2%). The high fibre content of the grain is good for better gut heath. Moreover, it is gluten-free hence an alternative source of food for the gluten sensitive people. The lecithin present in the grain is very important for the nervous system. Kodo millet contains most of the B-complex vitamins, including B3, B6 and folic acid. As for the mineral profile is concerned, the grain is a good source of calcium, potassium, zinc 123 and magnesium. It is said that the positive role of kodo millet in curing some health issues faced by the post-menopausal women. Barnyard millet, a millet of Indian origin has an excellent source for quality carbohydrate and fibre. It helps in preventing diabetics (Ugare et al. 2011) and other gut-related health issues. The retrogradation nature of amylose presence in the grain is another reason for balancing the blood glucose level and helps in managing diabetics. Barnyard millet has both unsaturated fatty acids (linoleic and oleic acids) and saturated fatty acid (palmitic acid).