 An eminent Scientist /Teacher having at least 8 years experience in the grade of Principal Scientist/Professor or in an equivalent position in pay band -4 with grade pay of ` 10000 out of which 3 years experience should be in a Research Management Position1 or in an equivalent position or atleast 6 years experience in any of the following positions. (a) Heads of Divisions at ICAR Institutes. (b) Heads of Regional Stations of ICAR Institutes. (c ) Project Coordinator. (d) Zonal Coordinator (service rendered prior to27.01.2009). (e) National Coordinator, NAIP. (f) Joint Directors of Institutes other than IARI IVRI/NDRI/CIFE and NAARM. Or An eminent Scientist having proven record to scientific contribution working in a reputed organisation/ Institutes having atleast 21 years experience in the relevant subject, out of which 3 years experience should be in a Research Management Position1 or in an equivalent position or atleast 6 years experience in any of the following positions. 26 | P a g e Existing ICAR Qualifications Revised UGC Qualifications for comparable Posts Proposed Qualifications or in an equivalent position or atleast 6 years experience in any of the following positions. (g) Heads of Divisions at ICAR Institutes. (h) Heads of Regional Stations of ICAR Institutes. (i) Project Coordinator. (j) Zonal Coordinator. (k) National Coordinator, NAIP (l) Joint Directors of Institutes other than IARI/IVRI/NDRI/CIFE and NAARM. (iii) Evidence of contributions to research/ teaching/ extension education as supported by published work/innovations (a) Heads of Divisions at ICAR Institutes. (b) Heads of Regional Stations of ICAR Institutes. (c) Project Coordinator. (d) Zonal Coordinator(service rendered prior to 27.01.2009). (e) National Coordinator, NAIP (f) Joint Directors of Institutes other than IARI/IVRI/NDRI/CIFE and NAARM. (iii) Evidence of contributions to research/ teaching/ extension education as supported by published work/innovations and impact. Desirable : The candidate should have demonstrated scientific leadership and skill in research management with a broad vision and perspective of agricultural research. Note1: If a candidate has less than 3 years experience in a research management position and has experience of working in position/s listed at (ii) (a) to (f) then a weightage equal to half of the service rendered in position/s listed at (ii) (a) to (f) shall be added to the candidate’s actual RMP experience to determine eligibility for these posts. Desirable : The candidate should have demonstrated scientific leadership and skill in research management with a broad vision and perspective of agricultural research.