 This causes silvery or brown patches on the affected parts where the plant cells have been destroyed. As a result of the damage, curling up of the leaves and wilting of the inflorescences were also recorded. In severe cases, affected fruits become Indian Horticulture 46 Fruit borer attack on mango the entrance hole and the shoot becomes hollow. Larvae bore into the young shoots, resulting in the drooping of the leaves and the wilting of the shoots. Larvae also bore into the inflorescence stalk. Management Need based spray of lambda cyhalothrin @1 ml/litre at fortnightly intervals during the emergence of new flush. For further interaction, please write to: H S Singh, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, PO Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author email: hari.singh1@icar.gov.in Leaf webber damage on mango Shoot borer (Chlumetia transversa Walker) Larvae enter the mid rib of leaves and then enter into the young shoots through the growing points by tunneling downwards. They excrete their excreta through CRISPR/Cas9 mediated genome editing of mango fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis Utility of genome editing of mango fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis mediated by CRISPR/Cas9 was demonstrated by disrupting the white gene, spermatogenesis pathway genes such as topi, per. Editing was achieved by delivering single guide RNAs (sgRNAs) along with Cas9 protein through embryonic microinjection and by electroporation. Disruption of white gene produced greenish metallic eye color and variation in pigmentation in cephalothorasic region. This successful lead could be useful for developing male only strains by disrupting oogenesis and speramatozoa production pathway genes. This will enable future environmental release of sterile males for area wide pest management of B. dorsalis. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2020 Edit Wild July–August 2021 47 V K Singh and S Rajan* Physiological disorders in mango and their management A number of eco-physiological disorders in the mango crop limit fruit production and quality. Black tip, soft nose, clustering (Jhumka), fruit drop, internal necrosis, fruit cracking, softening of fruits (jelly seed), and spongy tissue are the most serious issues that must be addressed. The main goal of this chapter is to explain the causes of these disorders and how to manage them. Research Black tip Black tip is a serious type of physiological disorder that causes significant economic loss to orchardists. Dashehari has the highest risk of the disorder, while Lucknow Safeda has the lowest. Fruits are affected at the marble stage, resulting in a distinctive yellowing of tissues at the distal end. The colour intensities gradually fade into brown and, finally, black. The development of the fruits is slowed at this age, and the black spot at the tip gradually extends towards the upper part of the fruits. Such fruits ripen prematurely and yield very low returns.