 Among the citrus fruits, the mandarins are dominating over the sweet orange, lime, lemon, grapefruit, and other citrus species in India due to their diverse and stable agro- climatic adaptability as well as commercial importance, such as Kinnow, Nagpur Santra, Khasi and Coorg mandarins. India contributes 11.41% of world citrus production, with an annual production of 15.73 MT and annual growth rate of 1.42% and 1.83% in area and production, respectively. Citrus productivity remains unchanged due to poor orchard management and climatic factors (heat waves during flowering and fruit setting). Additionally, growers are also facing unprofitable prices due to market glut, particularly Kinnow’s, because its ripening index is highly positive responsive to cool temperature and fruit mature at the same time in arid region. Thus, ICAR-CIAH has taken initiative to start work on germplasm augmentation cum improvement. For this, new cultivars of mandarins like Fremont, Daisy, Michal, Murcott, Nagpur seedless, Fairchild, Pear Tengelo, PAU Kinnow -1 etc. and their interspecific hybrids were collected and established during 2015. Among them, Daisy mandarin has been found the most promising cultivar based on fruit yield, colour, juice, and storage qualities as revealed from one decade of research on citrus crop under arid environment. Daisy mandarin’s striking characteristics It is an interspecific h y b r i d o f F o r t u n e Clementine and Fremont m a n d a r i n d e v e l o p e d by Dowlin Young at US Department of Agriculture, Daisy: A high-yielding and early maturing mandarin for Thar desert Daisy is an interspecific hybrid cultivar of mandarin and is known for its high yield, attractive dark orange fruit peel colour, and tasty juice. Its plant growth is medium in size with a drooping canopy and leaves (thick, larger, and slightly folding nature). These distinctive morphological characteristics make it well suited for high-density planting and water-deficit conditions. It produces medium-large sized, juicy, sweet, less-seeded fruits exhibiting dark orange, thin and glossy peel along with unique flavour. The better yield, attractive, sweet and juicy fruits mature in lean period (a gap between sweet orange and kinnow mandarin supply in market). It gives early quality marketable harvest in November month in the arid region may increase farm income, and farmers can adapt an alternative source in place of Kinnow mandarin, which is suffering from a market glut with a lower fruit price in current scenario. Jagan Singh Gora* and Ramesh Kumar Research Attractive deep saffron orange peel colour and less seeded fruits Turn to page 7 May–June 2024 Published bimonthly, Vol. 69, No. 3 C O N T E N T S Project Director : Rajarshi Roy Burman Incharge (EEU) : Ravindra Verma Associate : Vivek Chauhan Design & Production : Punit Bhasin Editorial Contact: Telephone: 011-2584 1004, 2584 1960/617 Fax: 011-2584 1282 E-mail: editor.horticulture@icar.gov.