K 2 Transfer of Technology: One day training programme was conducted (on 5th of every month) by this centre. Every month an average number of 40‐50 participants attended the programme from different places of the state and even from other states also. So far 289 such programmes have been conducted and more than 20,000 people have participated in these programmes. About 620 spawn production units and more than 1400 mushroom entrepreneurs are distributed through out the state. The sustained efforts taken through All India Coordinated Mushroom Improvement Project for the production and supply of quality spawn, mother culture and stock cultures of various kinds of mushrooms and timely supply has created a strong impact on mushroom production in this state. During 2004‐2005 more than 450 new entrepreneurs have been trained on small scale mushroom production. In addition intensive training on tissue culture, spawn production and large scale production of tropical mushrooms have been imparted to 37 unemployed graduates. Many satellite mushroom growing units, Self‐help groups and spawn production centers have been established through out the state due to the efforts taken up by TNAU center. Details of Extension activities (Trainings organized & Supply of Spawns) No. of Spawn supplied : 98,095 No. of One day trainings : 289 No. of 5 days training : 28 No. of 10 days training : 2 No. of ODL trainings : 289 No. of visitors to MRTC : 2000 No of Publications :17 No of Books Published : 6 Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur (Vellayani): Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.): The experiments laid out with oyster mushrooms were fully successful. Both Pleurotus sajor caju and Pleurotus florida gave very good yield. Trials conducted with the blue oyster mushroom also gave good results but Pleurotus sajor caju and Pleurotus florida out yielded Hypsizygus. Ulmarius, the test species. www.icar.org.in 62 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Milky mushroom (Calocybe indica): Paddy straw alone was the substrate used for cultivation of Calocybe indica . C.i.– 3 strain provided by the Centre proved to be a promising variety in all the trials conducted . Nine native isolates of Calocybe were compared with the strains from Solan. All the local isolates proved to be better. The native isolates were also preferred because of better taste than the Solan isolates which had slight pungent taste. Black Ear Mushroom (Auricularia polytricha): After a series of attempts the Centre could standardize the cultivation of Auricularia on mango wood chips. Paddy Straw Mushroom (Volvariella volvacea): Trials with isolates from Solan gave poor results only except for one isolate. Germplasm Collection and Survey & Surveillance of Diseases and Insect Pests: Survey and collection of wild mushrooms were undertaken during the monsoon seasons in the forest areas and districts of the state. A total of 110 wild specimens have been collected and preserved in the museum.