 On a relative basis and in line with the policy goal of doubling farmers’ incomes from 2015 to 2016 levels by 2024, the small im­ provements in income might still be seen as a win for reducing the depth of poverty (Government of India, 2017; Lele, 2019). With low incomes to start with (e.g. our estimated 0.27 PPP$ day−1 median FDPI for the bottom IBI quartile), however, it is a long way to go from doubling farm incomes (e.g. to 0.54 PPP$ day−1) to transforming farmers’ poverty status and reaching 1.90 PPP$ day−1. Even impressive gains in agri­ cultural productivity and profitability on a per hectare basis are not going to directly benefit most small farmers but mostly those that are already better off. To benefit the smaller farmers, policymakers need to invest in incremental and coordinated upgrading of agricultural value chains (including irrigation) and job training programs to create inclu­ sive and diversified job opportunities for them. 3.4. Home consumption and market participation Given that transforming the poverty status of most smallholders through better crop production alone is unlikely, this section explores patterns of home consumption and market participation to shed line on food security and off-farm income dimensions. As shown in Section 3.1 (Fig. 2), most smallholder directly consume rice and wheat production at home. One may assume that households with home consumption at sufficiency levels of, e.g., 2700 kcal person−1 day−1 would increase their incomes by selling additional produce. But multifaceted household, non- household and geographical factors influence smallholders’ market participation (Barrett, 2008). Accordingly, in our dataset, a higher number of irrigations and higher yields were associated with a higher number of kcal that were not Fig. 5. Smoothing splines of estimated average FDPIs in our sample in relation to irrigation intensity, IBI group and irrigation cost. FDPI remains low for low IBI groups irrespective of irrigation intensity or irrigation costs. See Supplementary material for how these average results vary across soil and crop types – key contributing variables – as well as partial effect sizes when controlling for contributing variables. FDPIs only show a strong response for the higher IBI groups. IBI appears to be more consequential for daily incomes than irrigation costs, although the negative slopes indicate that high costs for rented diesel pumps result in profit reductions in rice cultivation. Incomes are derived from full net value of production for rice (top) and wheat (bottom) at the received farm gate prices (left) and most recent minimum support price of 2020 (right). Dashed line is international poverty line of 1.90 PPP$ day−1. Non-linear features likely indicate influence of co- variates on yield response (e.g. limiting factors). A. Urfels et al. Agricultural Systems 207 (2023) 103618 9 sold to markets by the household.