 The App is expected to strengthen the farmer-based fish disease reporting system and improve the reporting of aquatic animal diseases in the country. Development of next generation shrimp larval feed, Larvi+A ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquacul- ture (ICAR-CIBA) upgraded its existing shrimp larval feed by novel additives and growth promoters and developed the improved next generation shrimp larval feed, Larvi+A. It was tested in 16 commercial hatcheries of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu in collaboration with start-up entrepreneurs. Larvi+A performance revealed good water stability, palatability and excellent growth and survival up to 92%. Larvi+A feed can serve as a cost-effective option for shrimp hatcheries. Vaccine for production of disease resistant spawns, CIFA- brood-Vac ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (ICAR-CIFA) developed a vaccine, ‘CIFA-brood-Vac’ for vaccinating female Indian major carps and catfish brooders in order to enhance the production of disease resistant spawns up to 30%. Circular cage for inland open waters ICAR-CIFRI developed circular HDPE cages having 16 m diameter and 5 m depth and 900 cubic meter water area. These cages were Lysinibacillus fusiformis L. macrolides Bacillus safensis Cell morphology and ammonia degradation ability of some isolated bacteria FISHERIES MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 98 used to rear adult hilsa Tenualosa ilisha and Indian major carps in river Ganga at Farakka. The cage is structurally sturdier and therefore can withstand a higher degree of wave action with water velocity of 0.8 to 1.0 m/s. The product has been commercialized through Agrinnovate India Ltd. FISHERIES MANAGEMENT Solar-powered fish feed dispenser A solar powered fish feed dispenser unit was designed and built on the Internet of Things (IoT) framework with a Radiofrequency (RF) module for wireless data transmission using a single board microcontroller. The device can move around the pond and dispense 6 kg of feed in 5 min. ❑ Circular cage for inland open waters Solar-powered fish feed dispenser ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 99 9. Soil and Water Productivity Agricultural land use plan of Bikaner Division: Agricultural land use plan based on the potential of soil enhances the land productivity. Bikaner division of Rajasthan represents arid agro-ecosystem with land degradation issues including wind erosion. A total of 2108 soil samples were collected from 531 geo-tagged soil profiles, processed, and analysed for soil properties. Digital soil mapping technique was used to develop soil spatial maps of eight key soil properties, viz. sand, silt, clay, available water capacity (AWC), pH, electrical conductivity (EC), soil organic carbon (SOC), and calcium carbonate (CaCO3) content.