 Subramanian Emerging Diseases and Our Immunity 191 Dr Chandrima Shaha Transforming Global Food Systems after COVID-19 194 Dr Johan Swinnen CONTENTS xi Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Social Issues and Sports Issues Concerning Land Degradation in the North Eastern India 199 Dr Rajkumar Ranjan Singh Gender and Nutri-Sensitive Agriculture 201 Dr Ashok Kumar Singh Issues Concerning Child Rights in India: Challenges and 204 Opportunities Mr Priyank Kanoongo Women in Leadership Role in India 206 Ms Rekha Sharma Land Reforms in Agriculture — Way Forward 208 Justice Navniti Prasad Singh My Journey to Success 211 Mrs M.C. Mary Kom Modern Technology in Managing Human-Wildlife Conflict 213 Dr Kaushal Konwar Sarma Public-Private Partnerships for Sustainable Irrigation: Role of 216 Government, Users and Private Sector Dr Steve Goss If Not Global Hunger Index, Then What? 219 Prof. A.K. Nigam Special Lecture Save Soil- The World’s Largest People’s Movement 225 Sadhguru Calendar of Lectures held under ICAR 75 Lecture Series 227 Speaker Index 234 CONTENTS xii Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 1 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Atmanirbhar Bharat Atmanirbhar Bharat 2 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 3 Atmanirbhar Bharat ATMANIRBHAR BHARAT SELF-RELIANT AGRICULTURE Narendra Singh Tomar A series of lectures were organized by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) starting on March 17, 2021 on various topics by experts, eminent scientists, policy-makers, spiritual leaders, motivational speakers and many successful entrepreneurs. Shri Tomar spoke on “self-reliant agriculture”. Referring to the develop- mental journey of the Indian agriculture and the contributions of the ICAR, he said that at present, we are among the world’s leading countries in agricultural production, fulfilling our food demands as well as helping in foodgrains needs of other countries’. Agriculture and farmers have to self- reliant. The ICAR and its scientists have contributed enormously in the development of agriculture. Their endeavor has been in breeding new seeds (release of climate resilient seed varieties and fortified varieties) and delivering them to fields; increasing productivity and developing new technologies for farmers. India’s large number of population depends on agriculture. What we need now is to decrease the total dependency on agriculture of the population through technologies. Technologies in a way can also attract youth to agriculture. The ICAR initiative, such as Kisan Sarthi, is a Shri Narendra Singh Tomar is the Minister of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare, Government of India. He has also been the Minister of Rural Development, Minister of Panchayati Raj, Minister of Mines and Minister of Parliamentary Affairs in the Government of India. 4 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series digital platform. It will empower farmers in the remote areas with technological interventions.