 Major constraints in fish farming are use of traditional methods for fish culture and harvesting, poor access to quality feed and seed, poor processing facility, seasonality in the occupation, poor access to credits, lack of knowledge among farmers about government policies and subsidies, inadequate and poor infrastructure, lack of diversity in culture of fish species, lower productivity due to incidence Indian Farming 74 (03): 30-31; March 2024 Fish farming An ocean of opportunity for enhanced income and livelihood S K Singh’, S K Dubey'*, Seema Yadav' and Raghwendra Singh' "ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Rawatpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 Fish farming plays a vital role in improving the socio-economic conditions and livelihood of rural communities. Many studies have shown that pond fish farming is more profitable enterprise than rice cultivation, promoting many poor farmers in rural areas to switch to fish farming with the benefit cost ratio ranging from 1.7 to 1.9. Furthermore, the increasing human population has created a lot of pressure on diminishing agricultural land for food production. Fish farming can be considered as an alternative source of livelihood generation and may act as bridge for achieving one of the goals of SDGs (sustainable development goals) 1.e. zero hunger. The blue revolution has significant role in post independence increased production of fish which is considered as a cheap source of protein and contains essential amino acids and fatty acids. The Krishi Vigyan Kendras have emerged as connecting link between the poor farmers and new technology which led to the enhanced production of fish besides livelihood generation. Keywords: Benefit cost ratio, Blue revolution, Fish farming, Livelihood ISH farming is considered as one of the oldest occupation and fastest way to enhance poor farmer’s income as well as livelihood. It also plays a significant role in improving socio-economic status of the rural community. Fish farming is not only helpful in providing food security but also ensures-nutritional security as an outstanding source of animal protein rich in essential amino acids and fatty acids, weaving the pathway towards achieving the goal of zero hunger (one of the goal of SDGs of UN). After China, India has privilege of being known as second largest fish and aquaculture producing nation. The bloom of fisheries is because of blue revolution which has led paradigm shift in the production of fish from 0.75 MMT in 1950- 51 to 13.76 MMT in 2018-19 with annual growth rate of 6.8% (NABARD 2020). This trend has shown immense potential of fisheries sector in doubling the farmer’s income. The fish production has two dimensional significance i.e. employment generation and export potential. India’s contribution in global fish production is 7.73% and 4% in global export. Fish and fish products in India has share of 7.28% in agricultural GVA and 1.28% in national GVA (APEDA 2020).