25 /kwh and water ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 92 conservation bonus of another Rs.1.25 /kWh. Six solar pumps, with a total capacity of 56.4 kWp, installed in the pilot sites to generate an income of three lakh rupees per year from solar power sales. SPaRC can play a big role in fulfilling the Prime Ministers dream of doubling the farm incomes in the country. Underground Taming of Flood for Irrigation (UTFI): The household data of UTFI project reveal that water availability for domestic use has increased because improved groundwater levels. The community participation in terms of site renovation and maintenance was formalized through inclusion of Mahatma Gandhi Rural Employment Scheme (MGNREGA). Additionally UTFI has been included in in the District Irrigation Plan (DIP) for Rampur. Index Based Flood Insurance (IBFI): IBFI is the insurance vehicle proposed to scale-up the agricultural flood insurance to 1 million farmers by 2025. The project has developed the flood insurance products using remote sensing data and flood hazard modelling tools that can accurately depict yield loss in smallholder farming due to weather and/or other perils. Climate change and adaptations: Farmers adapting the water saving interventions were able to reduce the cost of cultivation, improve yield and income along with the water use efficiency. The adoption of DSR, AWD and MSRI in Guntur district of Andhra Pradesh was able to gain a net impact of 10,000 to 26,000 Rs/ha and 166.3 crores in the district due to uptake of the interventions.The government of Andhra Pradesh has targeted to increase the area under adaptation through ‘Rythukosam Program’, a mission mode approach for the double digit growth of agriculture. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India The Under Ground Taming of flood for Irrigation (UTFI): is in progress under the Ganges River basin. The project is addressing the two major water challenges of seasonal flooding and groundwater depletion through the interventions. The project has demonstrated that the community-owned assets can be converted in to recharge structures that are effective in achieving both flood mitigation and enhance groundwater availability. The community has actively participated under MGNREGA program in the pilot site. The recharge rate in recharge wells were measured by measuring drop in water depth over a period of time. The groundwater quality on heavy metals, arsenic, cadmium, cobalt, chromium, copper and fluoride are found to be below detection limit or within the acceptable limit. Underground taming of flood water for irrigation, Rampur District (http://utfi.iwmi.org) ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 93 Index based flood insurance and drought monitoring system: IWMI has developed the flood and drought monitoring tools that allow governments to better plan their investments in development.