Serve as a Think Tank for ICAR and facilitate strategic management of human capital 3. Salient achievements • Organized 334 capacity buildingprograms to various levels of functionaries in agricultural research and education reaching over 25,453 stakeholders during 2016-2022. • Foundation Course for Agricultural Research Service (FOCARS) is the flagship programme of the Academy, which is offered twice a year for ARS probationers. During last five years, 9 batches have completed FOCARS programmes successfully. • The Academy conducts three Post Graduate academic programmes such as, Post-Graduate Diploma in Management-Agriculture (PGDMA), Post-Graduate Diploma in Technology Management in Agriculture (PGDTMA) and PG Diploma in Educational Technology Management (PGD-ETM)wherein about 467 students have graduated during 2016-22. • More than 13,161 faculty/students benefitted through 7 Massive Open On-line Courses (MOOC) courses offered by the Academy. • During the last five years the Academy implemented various research studies in the six areas, the results of which were published as research papers (420), technical bulletins and training manuals (130) and policy briefs (25) and others. Agricultural Education 198 ICAR Institutes Profile 198 • a-IDEA, Technology Business Incubator of NAARMincubated 83 Agri startups and conducted ‘Entrepreneurship Development programs for about 2108 Agri-Graduates under ‘Student Ready Agri-preneurship’. • 80 FPOs (Farmers Producers Organizations) were trained in business plan development and market linkages, thus contributing to the national program on FPOs. • A total of 162 MoUs were executed by the Academy with several governments, private institutions and universities during last five years. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Academy organizes various capacity building programs such as Foundation course for state agricultural universities faculty, administrative and finance officers, Management Development Programs for pre-RMPs, coordinators of KVKs, Executive Development Programs for ICAR directors, off-campus for scientists/faculty and other category staff of NARES, Foundation course for newly recruited scientists of Agricultural Research Service (FOCARS), Refresher Courses/Summer /Winter Schools-21days for students and other need based programs for researchers, academicians, extension personnel, policy makers, farmers and farmer-groups, agripreneurs, agribusiness houses and other stakeholders of the NARES. • A new agri-innovation Centre, a-Idea at NAARM caters to the needs of potential young agri-preneurs in the ecosystem • Performing the role of a think tank in providing policy prescriptions and strategic inputs to ICAR for facilitating the organizational renewal of institutions of NARS and ensure the long-term viability of Indian agriculture.