 The second and third sprays are given at flowering stage at 15 days interval. Crop management: Wide spacing and withholding irrigation at flowering minimizes charcoal rot incidence in rabi sorghum. In hybrid seed production plots of sorghum, flowering synchrony should be such that A-lines must get sufficient pollens from R-lines for fertilization. Preventing bacteria contaminated irrigation water from entering into sorghum or pearl millets field minimizes the chances of bacterial stalk rot. Resistant cultivars: Host-plant resistance provides the most economic and environment friendly method of managing millet diseases in organic agriculture. For grain mold management, use of a cultivar that escapes the disease is the best option. Use of mold tolerant cultivar such as hybrids CSH16, CSH27, CSH30, and varieties CSV20 and PVK801, and harvesting the crop just at maturity without leaving it for more days in the field are the second best options to avoid grain deterioration and weathering. Though high level of genetic resistance is not available against charcoal rot, the present day cultivars, viz. CSV19R, CSV216R and DSV6 possess good tolerance. All recently released cultivars of pearl millet (e.g. HHB 67, ICMH 356) possess tolerance to downy mildew as they are released only after multi- location testing. GPU 28 and GPU 48 is widely used cultivar of finger millet resistant to neck and finger blast. Removal of diseases plants or plant parts: Incidence and severity of downy mildew of sorghum and pearl millet, all types of smuts of sorghum, pearl millet and small millets, and leaf diseases like anthracnose, leaf blight, and leaf spots and viral diseases can be greatly reduced. Collecting smutted heads in cloth bags and dipping in boiling water to kill the pathogen is the popular practice that will reduce the inoculum for the next year and minimize incidence. Prophylactic measures: Rapid curing of an established infection is probably best done by chemicals. However, chemicals can be replaced by bio-agents or botanicals for management of foliar or panicle diseases to promote organic farming. Many reports are available on millet diseases where foliar sprays with bio-agents or botanicals have controlled diseases, e.g. pearl millet blast by Pseudomonas fluorescens, leaf diseases of forage sorghum by Trichoderma asperellum and grain mold of sorghum by T. harzianum. Similarly, in small millets foot rot of finger millet and banded blight in all millets can be managed by soil application of T. viride or T. harzianum and P. fluorescens. However, prophylactic spray of pesticides for disease management should be the last option and practices described previously should be followed stringently, so that diseases do not appear on the crop or they remain in control. SUMMARY Diseases are one of the major constraints of millet production and improvement in productivity.