 Ltd, Bikaner Aadvik Foods, is India’s first company to process, market camel milk and its products in the country and abroad. In a short span of 2.5 years, it has acquired over 250,000 customers who consume camel milk on a daily basis. One of the prime objectives of company is to dispel the gap between the camel milk and its consumers. In a pursuit to diversify their product portfolio, company has joined as Incubatee Company ABI, NDRI, Karnal in 2018 to carry out the core Research and Development in Camel milk and goat milk products. Mishti Farmers Producer Co. Ltd., Karnal A milk producer company consisting of about 250 farmers has started commercial of bajra lassi, whey drinks, sweets, ghee, butter, lassi and curd under the Business Incubation Programme of ABI. The milk collected from 270 resource poor farmers is processed and at present the company has 14 outlets in five district of Haryana. ABI has supported them through mentorship and skill development in commercial production of dairy products. It has also extended its support to continuously educate them with series of interactions with experts and developing business acumen in order Indian Farming January 2020 36 to compete with intangible market forces. One of the best examples of rural entrepre-neurship where poor farmers can be linked in the form of a Producer’s company to provide better price of milk and higher return through manufacturing of innovative value added dairy products. The company is providing direct employment to about 15 persons and indirectly to about 150 persons. The company will expand its business through increasing manufacturing capacity and by launching new products. Conclusion India has made a remarkable growth in milk production, but still there are several issues that need urgent redressal to keep the momentum. Large population of non-descript cattle and buffaloes, very low productivity of milch animals, lack of feed and fodder, longer calving interval, reproductive problems and non-availability of good quality semen & animals. Likewise, milk processing industry is facing the problem of adulterants & contaminants, lack of standardized manufacturing technologies, absence of mechanization, poor emphasis on quality & safety and product innovations. The scenario is more of less similar across the country and it offers newer opportunity for rural youths and farmers. Present environment and government efforts have also created a positive atmosphere for the startups and it is an opportune time for entrepreneurs. Corresponding author's e-mail: aksndri@gmail.com. Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops (Volume I) TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes.