2% in Sahiwal and 54.5% in HF), especially beta caseins (34.6% in Sahiwal and 36.4% in HF). Immunomodulatory activity of proline- rich polypeptides (PRPs) was studied and In vitro analysis indicated higher phagocytic activity and moderate lymphocyte proliferation index of PRPs from Indigenous breeds. Furthermore, immunomodulatory effect of the PRP was evaluated through the in vivo studies in mice model. It revealed that serum of mice challenged with E coli has higher IgG and IgA concentrations when fed with PRP from indigenous breeds compared to PRPs of Karan Fries. Level of anti- inflammatory cytokines (IL-10) was higher and pro-inflammatory cytokines (TNF-α, IFN- γ) was lower in mice fed with PRPs from indigenous breeds. Medicinal and immunomodulatory prope- rties of the urine of indigenous Badri cattle: The immunomodulatory properties of Badri bull urine distillate were studied in Wistar rats. The findings demonstrated that Badri bull urine distillate had immunomodulatory effects on humoral and cell-mediated immunity. In humoral immunity, significant increase in titer of HI antibodies (41.55%) and ELISA values (25.41%) was observed at 90th DPT. Significant increase in Δ OD of the B-lymphocyte proliferation assay (LPA) performed in splenocytes of the test and control rats using lipo-polysaccharide Effect of PRP supplementation on cytokine profile C-Control; NC-Negative Control; GP-PRP from Gir; SW-PRP from Sahiwal; TP-PRP from Tharparkar; KF- PRP from Karan Fries; IFN-γ - Interferon-gamma; TNF-a - Tumour Necrosis Factor - Alpha and IL-10 - Interleukin 10 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 66 (LPS) as mitogen showed 26.69% and 45.85% enhancement of B-lymphocyte proliferation at 60th and 90th DPT, respectively. The results scientifically validate the immunomodulatory effect of Badri bull urine distillate which can be used in Ayurvedic preparations just like cow urine distillate. It was found in the study that all the CUD from Pahari and Jersey cattle had effect against CPV with fall in virus titer and inhibition of CPE, while no antiviral effect of the hexane and butanol fractions could be detected with cells getting infected by virus. Effects of Pahari and Jersey cattle urine (CUD was compared with acyclovir against CPV. It was found that Pahari cattle urine CUD had virus inhibitory effect which was less than acyclovir, but it was better than Jersey cattle urine CUD. Unique signatures of selective sweeps in indigenous dairy cattle breeds: Samples of Sahiwal cattle (82) were genotyped using by sequencing (72 own data + 10 online data) subjected to quality filtering and the sequence reads were aligned to the Bos taurus reference genome assembly (ARS-UCD1.3) for variant calling, employing a range of bioinformatics tools. Several parameters were calculated to evaluate the genetic diversity within the Sahiwal population. Subsequently, a total of 146 regions were identified as undergoing selective sweeps.