 y A process for coating metal nano particles on surface of jute fibre /textiles for enhancing functionality of jute fibre/fabric and jute- polymer resin bio composite sheet obtained thereof. y A process for surface modification of jute fibre / fabric for improved interfacial adhesion characteristics and bio composites obtained thereof. y Jute bio composite comprising compatibilizer treated jute fibrous material with induced hydrophobicity and a method of manufacture. y Chemoattractant based upstream migration of amphihaline migratory fish. y A peptide sequence and polyclonal antibodies against identified peptide for the detection of cow and buffalo luteinizing hormone. y A novel method for preparation of green gold nanoparticle developed. y Peptide elicitor of insect, and pathogen defence in brassica. y Bi-axial electro spinning setup for production of nano fibre mat. y CRISPR/Cas9 edited maize for glyphosate tolerance. y An immunosensor for ultra-low detection of total pesticide concentration in vegetable extract. y Rapid and direct electrochemical growth of multi-coloured electrochromic film of zinc naphthalene metal organic framework (MOF) for display devices. y Anti-tick phyto-molecule for the management of acaricide-resistant ticks infesting livestock. 3.4 Publications More than 950 research papers (up to December 2023) have been published in peer reviewed journals by the researchers out of the NASF projects. It is worthwhile to note that about 787 papers have been published with NAAS rating >6.0. The number of papers published in various years and during different calls are shown in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10, respectively. Apart from these many articles have been published in scientific magazines and reports. Solar refrigeration & PV power facility Major Outputs Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 72 3.5 Training & Workshops NASF has also supported few workshops in the frontier areas to identify potential projects. Some of these workshops are as shown below y “Precision Agriculture in India- Way Forward” held at NASC Complex, New Delhi on August 27, 2018. y “Hilsa Breeding and Management: Way Forward” held at ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore from October 24-26, 2017. y “Transgenic chickpea and pigeon pea” held at NASC Complex, New Delhi on April 22, 2017. y “GM Crops in India-Way forward” held at NASC Complex New Delhi on May 17, 2016 in New Delhi. y “Animal-Human conflict in Agro- pastoral contexts” held at National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru from December 11-12, 2015. Figure 10: Call wise number of publications Figure 9: No. of papers published under NASF supported projects 73 (i) Development of diagnostic kits for detection of Covid-19 infection in animals: Outbreak of novel coronavirus pandemic (Covid-19) caused by SARS-CoV-2 was reported in Wuhan China during Nov/ Dec 2019.