10: Establishment of educational museum and linkages between SAUs & ICAR institutes GADVASU, Ludhiana emphasised on exchange of students and faculty and use of infrastructural facilities among SAUs. Educational museum should be established in SAUs and this facility should be interlinked with all SAUs and ICAR institutes, so to provide wider exposure to both faculty and students (both UG& PG level). It was noted. It was noted. Agenda 6.11: Strengthening of newly established College of Fisheries GADVASU, Ludhiana informed that College of Fisheries established during 2008 is actively involved in academics, research and extension activities. Both UG and PG programmes have been initiated. As the existing infrastructural facilities need to be adequately upgraded, it was proposed that ICAR should provide adequate funds under the development grant for the establishment of aqua-museum, state of art laboratories and lecture rooms. It may be added here that this college has been included under Niche Area of Excellence. Agenda 6.12: Demand for more hostels GADVASU, Ludhiana mentioned that at present out of total 140 girls only 102 girls have been able to get adjusted in the girl’s hostel and this gap is increasing every year with new admissions. There is great dearth of one more new girls hostel, so that all the girls can be accommodated in the hostel. It was noted. Agenda 6.13: More funds for Agricultural Extension should be allocated like many foreign Universities IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda which was noted. Agenda 6.14: The funds approved in the EFC of the Five Year Plan should be made available in time in full, to the respective institutions IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda and was noted. 13 Agenda 6.15: Modernization/Strengthening/Infrastructural developments IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. It was suggested to send the required information for the purpose of compilation. [Action: VC, IGKV] Agenda 6.16: Development in niche areas IGKV Raipur presented the agenda. The issue was discussed and suggestion was made to submit the proposal under the programme. [Action: VC, IGKV] Agenda 6.17: E-Governance, paperless system and ERP IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. It was suggested to send the required information for the purpose of compilation. [Action: VC, IGKV] Agenda 6.18: Provision of funds for approach and peripheries road JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The issue was discussed and suggestion was made to submit the proposal under the programme. [Action: VC, JNKVV] Agenda 6.19: Providing vehicles grant to the SAUs by ICAR JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. The contingency grant may be utilized for outsourcing the facility. [Action: All, VCs] Agenda 6.20: Continuation of development grant in 12th plan for SAUs JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda emphasizing upon the continuance of development grant in the XII plan. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.