 Five farmers each were selected from these panchayats for the demonstration of e-Crop based Smart Farming (eCBSF), which was conceived and proven successful through different trials since 2014. Farmers followed two methods of cultivation, one by the method they have been following for years, i.e. traditional farming (TF) and the other according to eCBSF. The harvesting of the crop started during October. Sweet potato was harvested first. The tuber yield obtained under SF was 218% of TF practices. With the financial support of Kerala State Planning Board, another study was conducted at two panchayats in Malappuram district, Kerala to demonstrate e-Crop based smart farming system Krishi Krithya Mobile app Electronic crop device Self-learning crop models Self-learning crop model development programmes are already initiated, and field trials are being undertaken in Malappuram district of Kerala. This study aims at making e-Crop intelligent so that the device develops the model of a crop from the real-time field data. Thus, the time required for developing crop simulation model can be saved and the benefit of e-Crop based smart farming can be extended to any crop easily. e-Crop based smart fertigation system (eCBSFS) e-Crop based smart farming system (eCBSFS) is a system and method for automatic fertigation of crops, which helps in the application of nutrients and water to crops as per the quantities and interval calculated by e-Crop. e-Crop generates agro-advisory to reduce yield gap and realize potential yield at reduced input application. The advisory contains daily requirements of N, P, K and water to reduce the yield gap and it is sent to the farmer as well as e-Crop Based Smart Fertigation System (eCBSFS) in the form of SMS. This device receives and processes messages. The relay system inside the device has a series of motors, which are connected to nutrient (NPK) containers and the water source as well as to the irrigation system. As per the quantity mentioned in November–December 2024 37 eCBSF in cassava as well as for developing AI based self- learning models to make e-Crop intelligent so that it can be adapted to any crop easily. The increase in yield was obtained at a reduced input application. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers were applied at 49, 73 and 57%, respectively of the dosages in TF. Similarly, for Cassava, Elephant Foot Yam (EFY) and Banana, eCBSF yields were 187, 218 and 152%, respectively of the corresponding TF yield. Yield gap reduction is the main advantage of this technology. In case of cassava and sweet potato, the normal yield gap is around 50-60%. Through eCBSF, this gap was reduced to 5% and 8% for cassava and sweet potato respectively. Implementation of eCBSFS in the fields, is expected to benefit the farmers by more automation as well as increased yield at reduced input application. The yield increase is mainly because the crop is getting the required inputs, whenever it needs.