 Singh, Project Director (DKMA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012; Lasertypeset by M/s Xpedite Computer Systems, WZ-276/F1B, Inderpuri, New Delhi-110 012 and Printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028   

Web Url-https://icar.gov.in/  Annual Report 2019–20 Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Government of India Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi  DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 III Foreword Agriculture, with its allied sectors, is unquestionably the largest livelihood provider in India, more so in the vast rural areas. It also contributes a significant share to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of country. Sustainable agriculture, in terms of food security, rural employment, and environmentally sustainable technologies such as soil conservation, sustainable natural resource management and biodiversity conservation, are essential for holistic rural development. Indian agriculture and allied activities have witnessed green revolution, white revolution, yellow revolution and blue revolution to improve overall growth of various sectors. Presently special emphasis has been on micro level agricultural land use planning, soil and water conservation, water harvesting storage and groundwater recharge, improving water productivity and nutrient use efficiencies, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, organic farming, integrated farming system including agroforestry, waste water utilization, hill and coastal agriculture, bio waste management, weed management, climate resilient agriculture, abiotic stress management cutting across the states/UTs. An e-ATLAS on Micronutrients in Indian Soils was developed to address the problem of micronutrients deficiency in different soils of the country. Climate resilient integrated organic farming systems were developed for small and marginal farmers for semi-arid region and sloppy land of NEH region. During this year, a total of 220 varieties of food crops were notified and released for commercial cultivation. These varieites comprised cereals (96), oilseeds (37), pulses (51), commercial crops (18) and forage crops (18). Besides, 20 biofortified varieties of different crops including rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, linseed and finger millet were developed through genomic selection. The CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing technology was standardized for different crops to enhance stress tolerance and nutritional quality. A total of 133 varieties of horticultural crops were notified and released for commercial cultivation consisting of varieties of vegetable crops (71), spices (14), seed spices (15), potato (5), tuber crops (18), fruit crops (6), and plantation crops (4).