 Inputs To enhance farmers’ skills in Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) in the central Uttar Pradesh cluster of Malihabad, 13 training programs, four workshops, two mango buyer-seller meetings, five field days, and nine frontline demonstrations were organized. These events covered various aspects, such as center opening of old and dense orchards, application of ICAR-CISH Fasal Prabhat for quality fruit production, use of fruit bagging technology, integrated pest and disease management, harvesting at proper maturity with stalks using mango harvesters, and proper post-harvest handling, including desapping, grading, and packaging in CFB boxes/plastic crates. Farmers were also linked to exporters through aggregators and FPOs. An export-quality CFB box was designed and demonstrated for mango farmers. Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) for producing residue-free, clean fruits were provided, along with critical inputs such as fruit bags, harvesters, ICAR-CISH Fasal Prabhat, yellow sticky traps, and fruit fly traps. Approximately, 200,000 fruit bags were demonstrated with the Dashehari variety of mango in Malihabad. Similarly, in the Western Uttar Pradesh cluster in Siyana, Bulandshahr, capacity building for mango growers focused on wilt management, fruit bagging, safe harvesting, post-harvest handling, desapping, grading, and packaging in CFB boxes/plastic crates. Farmers were linked to exporters through aggregators and FPOs. An export-quality CFB box was designed and demonstrated for mango farmers. GAP technologies were demonstrated in 50 orchards with the Chousa mango cultivar. Approximately, 200,000 fruit bags were demonstrated with the Chousa variety of mango in Bulandshahr and Saharanpur. Output Central Uttar Pradesh Cluster: Mangoes are affected by several pests and diseases, leading forcing farmers in the mango belt of central Uttar Pradesh to spray pesticides 7-8 times, which results in high production costs. Demonstrating fruit bagging at an early stage not only reduced the number of sprays to 2-3 times but also improved mango quality in terms of colour development. None of the bagged mango fruits were affected by the unusual heat waves that prevailed during the 2024 mango production season. The improved fruit quality and extended shelf-life made bagged mangoes suitable for export markets, opening up new opportunities for mango growers to tap into international demand. High quality double layer fruit bag Indian Farming 16 October 2024 Fruit yield and physico-chemical parameters were studied in both bagged and non-bagged fruits, and it was observed that bagged Dashehari mangoes showed improved quality compared to unbagged fruits. Bagged fruits had a higher percentage of ‘A’ grade fruits (40- 50%) compared to unbagged fruits (15-30%). The titratable acidity was slightly lower in bagged fruits. The overall quality attributes and colour of bagged fruits were excellent.