 This is in vogue since last 10 years Keywords: neem seed kernel, cinnamon, foot and mouth disease Shri P. Kanniyan S/o Shri Periyasamy, Sukkankuli Kuzhumani, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2503 Control of foot-and-mouth disease by using Acacia bark Foot and mouth disease (FMD) is a common bovine disease prevalent mostly during the monsoon. The stem bark of babool (Acacia) is used for treatment of FMD. About ½ kg Acacia stem bark is ground properly and boiled with 10 litres water. This lukewarm extract is applied over the affected hooves of the animals. This practice is followed twice a day for 4-5 days. This treatment is commonly practised in Afajalpur village of Buland Shahr district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: foot and mouth disease, Acacia bark Dr (Ms) Kiran Singh C/o Dr Tungveer Singh, D-37, Medical College, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) 250 004 2303 Treatment of foot and mouth disease of cattle by keeping fish on tongue and adding fish water in drinking water It is a common and local practice in all the districts in the jurisdiction of Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri in Maharashtra. An animal suffering from foot and mouth disease is generally treated by keeping one fish on the tongue of animal and fish water is also added in the drinking water. The affected hoofs and digital space are washed with fish water. The disease is cured within a week. Keywords: fish water, fish on tongue, foot and mouth disease Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Curing foot and mouth disease in animals To cure foot and mouth disease of animals, farmers of North Solapur of Solapur district and Ahmednagar district allow the animal to sit in the muddy water for some days. By this practice the excess body heat of animals gets subsided. Keywords: foot and mouth disease, muddy water, excess body heat Director of Extension education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2602 Control of foot disease in animals The treatment is quite helpful in curing foot and mouth disease in animals. A decoction of copper sulphate (Neela thotha) is prepared for the purpose and it is applied on the feet of affected Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural  animals. After application, the animals are allowed to take rest for some time. In some cases, kerosene oil is also used for the same purpose. For this, it is heated in a small vessel and wrapped in a thick cloth and then applied to the feet of the animals twice in a day, continuing the practice upto 5-7 days. This practice is under use among the farmers of Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: foot disease, kerosene oil, Agriculcopper sulphate Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.