 The universities need to initiate action in this regard, considering its benefits for the students and faculty. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.9: Attracting successful alumni serving abroad to the AUs. The university can take necessary action on its own. However, under NAEP some provision have been made for inviting scientists from abroad for specific purpose. [Action:All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.10: Starting Colleges of agriculture in private universities The matter need to be taken up by such universities who are willing to start such programmes. The minimum standards for opening specific colleges are being worked out. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.11: Addressing smallholder farmers in course curriculum The issue may be considered by the V Deans Committee, already constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr. R. B. Singh. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.12: Technical updation of faculty members from SAUs at National and International Institutes on the pattern of scientists working in ICAR schemes. The issue has been proposed to be taken up under the proposed NAEP project. [Action: ADG (EQR)] 17 Agenda 8.13& 8.14: Equivalence of degrees of the Foreign Universities viz; Afghanistan, Africa, Asia including South Asia with that of Indian Universities, and with the degree of developed countries. The committee constituted under the chairmanship of Dr R. B. Lal may take up this issue on case to case basis. All the issues need to be resolved. In case of equivalence of degree of Indian Universities with the degrees of developed countries, ICAR may have an understanding with specific universities for working out equivalence of degrees in the above universities. The students who come to Indian universities and vice versa may get the admissions smoothly. Similarly specific cases be considered by the Sectorial Committee of the Accreditation Board constituted for this purpose. [Action : ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.15 National Mission on Education through information & communication technology The ICT request can be submitted. Support has already been provided under NAIP and also by DKMA. Agenda 8.17: Meeting of Deans The V Dean’s Committee shall be conducting faculty-wise meeting of Deans. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.18: Medi-claim scheme for foreign students This can be considered as per the provisions under the scheme. However, in other cases, it may be dealt as per rules of the university. The universities may devise mechanism in consultation with Health Insurance Companies. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.19: Fee of foreign students at admission Matter was discussed. Universities may adjust from their own resources and the amount may be deducted after fellowship is received from ICAR. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.20: Support for skill intensive agricultural education. Support is being provided under Experiential Learning. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.22: Revival of farm developmental grant: 18 There was some provision for the specific purpose in XI Plan.