 y Non-availability of quality seeds is one of the factors for low productivity of the crops, especially in winter season vegetables like pea, potato, cabbage, broccoli, knol-khol, lettuce, etc. Therefore, improved varieties/ hybrid seeds tested in the region should be promoted for commercial production. y There is enormous scope for the processing and value addition from different crops like sauce and ketchup from tomato, sauce, and pickles of the local chillies (dale chilli, birds eye chilli), chow-chow totty fruity, dried powder of curry leaves, zanthoxyllum, dehydrated mushrooms, and bitter gourd shreds, canned baby corn and mushrooms, sago from tapioca, potato chips, bamboo shoot pickles, etc. y Commercial vegetable cultivation faces problems of abiotic (moisture stress, frost) and biotic stresses (bacterial wilt and early and late blight in tomato, potato, bacterial wilt in brinjal), hence varieties should be developed and promoted which is well suitable for the region. y Most of the farmers lack improved technical know- how of the crops and seed production; therefore, awareness programmes should be organized for the farmers. y There is also a need to focus on research to develop the package of practices and value addition of the underutilized vegetable crops and targeted value chain development. y Soils being acidic, applying liming @ 2.5q/ha should be promoted for better yield and quality of the vegetable crops. Likewise, promotion for conversion and uses of biomass (biochar, compost, etc.) in the production system could better impact the environment. y Water scarcity is one of the limiting factors of vegetable production during the winter season. Therefore, water harvesting in Jalkund/ponds and efficient utilization through drip/micro irrigation with mulching should be promoted for year-round production of vegetable crops, increasing the area of crops and cropping intensity. To enhance vegetable productivity, using new innovative methods and technologies is the best alternate to sustain food security. The adoption of improved agronomic practices, such as staking and mulching in open field-tomatoes, resulted in yield increase by 15% and reduction of labour costs by 30%. The cultivation of cucumber, bitter gourd, brinjal, tomato, chili and capsicum under farmers’ friendly low cost protected cultivation with improved production practices such as staking and mulching enabled farmers to obtain yield ranging from 150 to 200%. Therefore, as an off-season crop, technology-led vegetable production hold bright prospect. The cultivation of Kharif chilli, Kharif onion and Kharif tomato can provide immense potential in the Northeastern region and thereby contribute towards higher income per unit area, diversification of agriculture for better land use with least investment, food and nutritional security, scope for massive employment generation, unveiling new horizons for economic and social betterment of the rural community.