 The standard conventional treatment gave 100% recovery within 3 hours of drench. The herb was not effective in reducing the flatulence or bloat in animals. Shed–dried seeds and shade-dried pulp were weighed. Anthelmintic activity of the seeds and pulp was evaluated by of faeces in 36 calves at LPM section of cattle and buffalo farm, Indian CONCLUSION Amaltas was effective as anthelmintic in calves. However, it was not effective in reducing flatulence or bloat in animals. Table 2. Efficacy of amaltas fruits against flatulence or bloat in animals Treatment No of Quantity of product used Duration of Remarks animals treatment Conventional treatment 6 As per the standard schedule - Effective in reducing the bloat Amaltas fruit or seeds 5 150–170 g/animal Drenched The therapy is not drenched along with hot twice at an effective water hour/interval Experiment Pods were collected from the institute campus. Table 1. Anthelmintic potential of amaltas fruit in calves: mean eggs per gram in buffalo calves Days PT Gr I Gr II Gr III 0 826 880 790 7 785 659 591 15 802 592 480 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1581 Title of the ITK : Garkati disease in animals and its treatment Description of the ITK : In garkati disease, inner part of the tongue gets swollen and the cattle do not take feed and drinking water, that results into death of cattle. For its treatment, farmers of village Asanbera of Thethaitangar block in Simdega district of Jharkhand use olekand, tamarind, salt, carbon, fat of pig and sindur. First, swollen tongue is touched by the hot iron rod, then 200 g olekand, 20 g tamarind and salt each and 10 g carbon are powdered, mixed, and fed to the affected animals. After that pig fat and sindur (vermilion) is rubbed on the tongue. Then water is given to drink. One treatment is enough to cure garkati. This indigenous treatment is being used by the farmers for the last several years without any modification. The disease generally prevails in June and July in 5% of the cattle. The traditional method cures 40% of cases. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Anjelus Kerketta, Asanbera Kathartoli, Simdega (Jharkhand) 835 235 Location of use of the ITK : Village Asanbera, Post Thethai Tangar, Simdega (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Amorphophallus campanulatus is a stout herbaceous plant with an underground corn, which is hemispherical. Experimenter : Dr B.K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkahand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted village Asanbera, P.O. Thethai Tangar, dist. Simdega (Jharkhand). PRA and field study Field study was conducted using PRA tools with 20 respondents. The reported ITK was compared with recommended allopathic medicine on selected parameters/factors, viz. extent of cure, duration of treatment, cost effectiveness, regaining in milk yield, draught power, and safety.