 However, double cropping of blackgram/greengram/cowpea (fodder) and rabi sorghum is recommended wherever found operationally feasible as legumes save about 10–20 kg N/ha. Soybean + rabi sorghum sequence cropping is found feasible and profitable in irrigated conditions. Intercropping of sorghum with safflower with 4:2 or 6:3 ratio is recommended on deep soils. As the moisture is a limiting factor during post-rainy sorghum production, intercropping is feasible only in deep soils. Sorghum + chickpea and sorghum + safflower are the important intercropping systems in rabi sorghum growing regions of Maharashtra and Karnataka. Harvesting and threshing Crop should be harvested at physiological maturity (110–120 days after sowing) depending upon the genotypes duration. The harvested panicles are left in the field for about a week for drying and thereafter the grains are separated from panicles by threshing or manually. The panicles are harvested first and remaining plants later. Drying and Bagging After threshing, the grains are sundried for 1–2 days to reduce the moisture content up to 10–12%. Bagging of the grains is done in plastic or gunny bags for immediate marketing. Performance of the demonstrated technologies in farmer’s fields under FLDs The area under rabi sorghum reduced with little extent recently in last decade. However, due to concerted efforts made by the scientists, extension workers, developmental agencies and farmers, average productivity has now increased to 989 kg/ha in 2019–20 from 894 kg/ha in 2007–08 under rainfed conditions. Total 3699 FLDs were organized since last nine years, Preparation of compartment bunding to conserve monsoon rains Rainwater stored in compartments Rainwater stored in ridges Net benefits obtained from rabi sorghum FLDs over farmer’s practice Net returns under FLD (`/ha) Net returns under FP (`/ha) Net benefits obtained from rabi sorghum FLDs over farmers' practice (FP) Grain yield under FLDs Grain yield under FP Grain yield advantages or rabi sorghum FLDs over farmers' practice National Avg. Yield (tonnes/ha) Indian Farming 104 January 2023 (2012–13 to 2021–22) with improved rabi sorghum cultivars, viz. CSV 26R, CSV 29R, CSV 18R, CSV 22R, PKV Kranti, Phule Vasuda, Phule Yashodha, Phule Revati, Phule Chitra and Parbhani Moti, and recommended package of practices in major sorghum growing states Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana. They gave 49% more grain yield than the farmer’s practice (FP) which was 2–3 times higher than the state average productivity. The higher yield of the FLDs resulted into same 49% more net returns than the FP. SUMMARY At all the locations, the demonstrated improved sorghum production technologies took over the yields and profits of the local varieties.