/PO: Solapur, Maharashtra Location of the use of the ITK :Solapur, parts of Sangli, Ahmednagar and Pune (Maharashtra) Geographical indicators :Botanical name:Cassia tora Local name :Takala Family :Leguminoseae A small weed plant, an annual herb 30–90 cm high. It is widely spread, growing on dry soil. It occurs in wasteland during rainy season. Leaves and seeds of takala are laxative, antipyretic, anthelmintic, ophthalmic and expectorant. The leaves and seeds are useful in cough, constipation and stomach disorder. Experimenter :Dr N.P.Dakshinkar, Associate Professor of Clinical Veterinary Medicine, Nagpur (Maharashtra) 440 006 METHODOLOGY PRA and field study Randomly selected goat raisers of five districts of Vidarbha region were interviewed using PRA tools. Three villages from each taluka of every district were selected and five goat raisers from every village were interviewed by preparing a standard questionnaire. Parameters or factors studied were recorded on a questionnaire sheet and the data were analysed to draw inferences. Experiment The study was conducted from 60 goats suffering from diarrhoea . These goats were subjected to detailed clinical and parasitological examination and were divided into parasitic and non-parasitic groups. Each group was equally divided into 5 sub groups comprising 6 goats each. Table 1. District-wise distribution of respondents District No. of respondents Wardha 15 (6.27) Chandrapur 24 (10.05) Nagpur 85 (35.56) Bhandara 85 (35.56) Akola 30 (12.56) Total 239 (100.00) Figures in parentheses indicate percentage  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study In the study 35.56% of goat keepers were consulted from Nagpur and Bhandara districts regarding traditional treatments of diarrhoea in goats with takala flower or leaves. Wardha district represents the lowest percentage of respondents ( 6.27 % ). Overall 239 goat raisers of Vidarbha region participated in the summer study (Table1). Of 239 respondents, 166 (66.45%) goat raisers were found to treat diarrhoea at home. The same proportion of personnel were under-taking traditional treatments for effective control of goat diarrhoea. It indicated that hardly 30% of goat raisers rely on other types of treatments, which include role of veterinarian. In Akola district, almost all goat keepers treat diarrhoea at home using traditional medicine (Table 2). On the other hand, in Wardha district, hardly 46.66 % goat raisers treat their animal at home using this age- old practice. Experiment The therapeutic regimen adapted in the animals is detailed in Table 3. Faecal samples of goats sufferings from diarrhoea were collected before treatment and then on day 6 after treatment. Freshly collected faecal samples were examined by concentrated method for detection of endoparasitic ova. Efficacy of drug was evaluated on the basis of reduction in EPG at day 0 and on day 6 after treatment. Table 2.