 PRA and field study The PRA was done in villages of Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. Experiment In experiments on animals, the antiviral activity of kasaundhi seeds was done in the laboratory.The results showed that the seeds have no anti-viral activities. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Farmers were not aware of ITK and they were not convinced of its use or efficacy. Experiment The powder of kasaundhi seeds was tested for anti-viral activity and it was found to posess no antiviral potential in vitro. CONCLUSION The seeds of kasaundhi showed no anti-viral property. Hence, it was decided not to use the ITK in clinical cases of dog bite, as it may predisposed chances of rabies in the bitten animal. REFERENCES Chatterjee, A. and Pakrashi, S. C. 1985. The Treatise of Indian Medicinal Plants, Vol. I and II, Publications and Inforamtion Directorate, CSIR, New Delhi. Dash, Y. B. and Kashyap, V. L. 1980. Materia Medica of Ayurveda. Concept Publishing Co. New Delhi Sivaranjan, V. V. and Balachandran, I. 1996. Ayurvedic Drugs and their Plant Sources. Oxford and IBH Publishing Co. Pvt. Ltd, New Delhi. VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 282 Title of the ITK : Effect of black pepper (Piper nigrum Linn.) and turmeric (Curcuma longa Linn.) water to stimulate energy in day-old calf Description of the ITK : Black pepper (Piper nigrum) powder, if blown from the mouth of a person nursing the birth of a calf, acts as an instant energy provider to the calf. For 1 day-old calf, dysentery is prevented by giving turmeric (Curcuma longa) juice (1 spoonful). After birth, the calf lies on the mud. The person nursing the animal takes some black pepper in the mouth and crushes it there and then introduces the crushed substances into the nose of the calf by blowing from the mouth. This activates the calf immediately, and after some time it stands and starts running. Thus black pepper acts as an instant energy provider to the calf. Pepper costs Rs 5 and turmeric costs Rs 4. This is in practice in Midnapore village in West Bengal. Name and address of the discloser : Mrs. Saroja Bala Manna, Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 s Location of use of the ITK : Bachichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Experimenters : Dr F.R. Sheriff, Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Madhavaram Milk Colony Post, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 051, Dr Cecilia Joseph, Associate Professor, and Dr S. Thilagar, Professor and Head, Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 007 METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in the Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai. New born calves at the Livestock Research Station, Kattupakkam and those born at the Large Animal Clinic, Madras Veterinary College Hospital were used as experimental materials for this study.