 The preparation for operationalization of crop contingency plans begins with the long-range weather forecast (LRF) issued by IMD, which provides Weather forecasts and their applications in developing agromet advisories in India Extended Range Contingency plans as more lead time is available Medium range 15 days to month 3-10 days More lead time, better decision making and efficient resource use (labour, inputs) Weather Forecasts Long range Season Crop selection and input management Short range 24-48 hours Useful for sowing, irrigation and pest management Indian Farming 71 January 2025 an overall idea of whether the southwest monsoon will be above normal/normal/below normal. If the forecast is below normal, steps to implement crop contingency plans are taken. The events of mid-season drought can be identified using an extended-range weather forecast issued by IMD, which is valid for two weeks. Regular agricultural operations can be planned according to the medium-range weather forecast. Nowcast is the latest forecast issued by IMD in the event of hail storms, cloud bursts, lightning, etc. which can be used by farmers to protect the livestock and high-value crops. Farmers require timely and accurate weather forecasts and advisories information to plan the operations and remedial measures to reduce the losses in farm produce due to aberrant weather conditions. Inputs (seeds, fertilizer, plant protection chemicals), as well as the entire crop, can be saved when agromet advisories are delivered in a timely way (especially at the maturity stage). Key information that can address extreme weather events in India’s agriculture context through agromet advisories are described below. Drought management advisories • Early drought warnings: Advisories that provide long-range weather forecasts and monitor drought onset to help farmers plan for water scarcity. • Crop diversification recommendations: Farmers are advised to plant drought-tolerant crop varieties (e.g., millets, pulses) and use short-duration crop varieties to reduce water demand during drought periods. • Water conservation techniques: Recommendations on water-saving practices such as mulching, micro- irrigation, rainwater harvesting, and the use of moisture retention techniques to cope with limited water availability. • Irrigation scheduling: Precise advisories on when and how much to irrigate based on weather forecasts and soil moisture levels, ensuring efficient use of scarce water resources. Heatwave management advisories • Heatwave alerts: Early warning of impending heatwaves allows farmers to take measures to protect crops and livestock from heat stress. • Crop protection measures: Advisories may recommend covering crops with shade nets or using organic mulches to reduce soil temperature. In addition, adjusting planting dates to avoid critical crop growth stages coinciding with heatwaves is suggested.