 The model was validated through the Annapurna Krishi Prasaar Seva (AKPS) and four Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) of ANGRAU in Andhra Pradesh. Besides providing expert agro- advisories on agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries, farmers’ training programmes and field diagnostic services and veterinary camps were organized in identified villages. Innovative farmer-to-farmer information sharing meetings were organized, which were attended by ~ 180 farmers. Similarly, thirty three rural youth (project villages) were given a 4-days residential training on operation and benefits of AKPS for undertaking the work as ‘Annapurna Volunteer’ in the project villages. Standardization of ethnic foods and beverages: Instant dry idli mix technology was developed using a dry form of patented culture to get soft textured steamed idli. Ready-to- eat (RTE) idli packaging in retort pouch had over three-month shelf-life at atmospheric temperature (28 ± 2oC); it needs to be reheated in micro-oven for 5-10 seconds or steam heated in conventional oven for 2-3 minutes before serving. Dry mix sambar and chutney for the RTE idli packed in high density polyethylene (HDPE) bags also had more than three months’ shelf life. and it need to be boiled for 5 -7 minutes before serving. Wet idli batter mixed with preservative could be stored without spoilage for three days at room temperature and five days on refrigeration. Technology details of millet dhokla mix and ready-to-eat dhokla were showcased for technology commercialization; and entrepreneurs showed interest in this technology. Ultrasonication of coconut toddy for 20 minutes with 99% power level was standardized to improve the quality of non- alcoholic (neera) toddy for safe consumption up to two months of storage. Presence of health- benefit lactic acid bacteria profile was created in the coconut toddy on storage. Arsenic in food chain: The study undertaken to overcome the harmful effects of excess arsenic in the soils of West Bengal on the entire food chain including soil, crops, human beings, livestock and fish. This has resulted in: identification of indigenous bacterial strains capable of volatilizing inorganic soil arsenic under aerobic vis-a-vis anaerobic environment. The imposition of intermittent ponding during vegetative phase reduced arsenic content in grain and straw significantly, but non-significant yield reduction in the rice. Varying depths of irrigation water, commensurate with root development, could be adopted for arable crops to reduce arsenic content in edible parts without compromise in yield. Further, retting of jute increased the arsenic content of surface water bodies which ultimately led to increased arsenic content in fish tissues, an unexplored source of arsenic contamination as yet. Interestingly, the vermicompost, as low-cost and eco-friendly, has emerged as the best organic amendment to reduce arsenic availabilities in contaminated soils through greater metal-organic matter complexation.