 Under the horticulture module, kitchen gardening with improved vegetable technology was implemented to improve nutritional status of the farmers especially, marginal farmers who could save their expenditure on vegetables as an income. Over the years, different interventions under NRM module were taken up like zinc application on sugarcane, use of wild animal repellent (Herboliv+), line sowing, ridge and furrow method of sowing besides integrated water management practices to help farmers conserve soil, water and to protect their crop from the wild animal menace. Every year, 667 farmers were involved from different socio-economic categories to test different interventions of the project. The crop module has the highest number of beneficiaries under different millet interventions, followed by the enterprise module which provides not only processing services but also helps in employment generation. To improve the knowledge and skills on improved millet practices, technology usage and resource conservation practices of the selected farmers, various extension activities such as demonstrations, field and exposure visits were taken up every year (Table 1) including trainings on cultivation practices, machinery usage, value–addition for preparing innovative millets food items etc. The parameters for the impact evaluation were chosen after discussion with the extension scientists and research experts. The data on yield and economics including feedback from the beneficiaries under different modules of the project, and training programmes were collected. With the help of semi-structured interview schedule and focus group discussion, the data of improved practices (IP) i.e., project interventions were compared with the farmers’ practices (FP) to assess advantages of the interventions on yields, and returns were analysed using descriptive statistic tools. The opinions of the farmers were also recorded for further refinement of the technologies and input for researchers. Table 1. Extension programmes and other activities organized during last seven years Programmes/ activities 2017-18 2018-19 2019-20 2020-21 2021-22 2022-23 2023-24 Events No. of farmers Events No. of farmers Events No. of farmer Events No. of farmers Events No. of farmer Events No. of farmers Events No.