 Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator planted as the main cash crop in interspaces. Gentle sloping areas with gravel having moderate fertility along with shallow black sandy soil with gravel is selected for pineapple and mandarin mixed with black pepper crop. In waterlogged soils, rice is planted and banana is grown on bund. If the slope is little bit gentle and soil is shallow black, it is indication of medium fertile soil, and the farmers grow vegetables and cereal crops in combination with fruits. If the slope is gentle and soil is black, farmers consider it highly fertile, and grow cash crops. Low level of fertility is recognized by greyish or light brown soil with high slope. For this area perennial fruit trees and spices are grown and timber plantation is done to control soil and water erosion as well as to fulfill the diversified needs of the people living in East Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh. Keywords: soil identification, fertility, soil and water erosion, gentle slope, shallow black, deep black, timber, crop diversification and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content 5 Pest and Disease Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2826 Use of kohu gans for control- ling insect pests in rice Leaves of kohu gans (Grewea sp.) are collected and ground to control insects and pests in rice. A few litres water is added and the extract is sprayed in the affected field. Erection of stems of this plant in the affected field also gives good result. Keywords: kohu gans, insect pests, Shri Willy Sangma Neperpatty, P.O. Ncperpatty, dist. Karbi Anglong (Assam) Grewea sp. 2827 Control of gundhi bug in rice 2828 Use of markati in paddy field as a repellent Farmers of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh use crabs as insect attractant. Farmers collect 40-50 crabs and kill them. After killing, these crabs are tied with bamboo sticks and placed randomly in the field. Insects are attracted with the smell of crabs and they sit over the body to suck the sap. Thus the crop is saved from the insects. Keywords: crab, gundhi bug, rice Farmers (women) of Mishing tribe of East Siang district, Arunachal Pradesh spread the leaves of markati plant (Baccaurea ramiflora) randomly after transplanting paddy in the field. By spreading these leaves, the paddy crop is saved from various diseases and the insects are repelled from paddy field. This practice is used since time immemorial and 80-85% farmers rely on this practice. Keywords: markati, paddy, disease, insect, repellent Dr Ranjay K.