 Fig 5 IoT system deployed in the aquarium and pond system 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - Performance and evaluation criteria Maintaining optimal levels of dissolved oxygen in fisheries and ponds is crucial for favorable fish production. The system is able to manage the DO level in real time which not only promote the fish health but also reduce the mortality due to DO deficiency. High stocking density in proportion to the volume of water results in the shortage of DO for the biomass in a pond. In this scenario, the developed system can maintain the DO level with its smart embedded technology without human intervention. Besides that, it can reduce the cost of energy consumptions of continuous aerator operation or required manpower to operate the aerator. The developed system is deployed in different water areas like aquarium, ponds, fish tank etc. to test the working process of the system as well as the DO readings from the sensor. The system generated DO readings were validated with lab tested results. The system was also tested for the aerator functioning when DO level goes below the threshold level. All the results were satisfactory (Table 1). In this first attempt, the system is developed for real-time DO monitoring and management of the waterbody. With this process, the continuous DO and temperature with 10 minutes’ interval data are recorded and stored in the cloud server. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report d. Deployment consideration The loT system is able to operate with electric power or solar power. The system is suitable for commercial fish farming system where cultured fish sps are sensitive to the DO level of the water, where stocking level is high. The system is deployed at aquarium and pond system (Fig. 5). Fig 5 loT system deployed in the aquarium and pond system 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - Performance and evaluation criteria Maintaining optimal levels of dissolved oxygen in fisheries and ponds is crucial for favorable fish production. The system is able to manage the DO level in real time which not only promote the fish health but also reduce the mortality due to DO deficiency. High stocking density in proportion to the volume of water results in the shortage of DO for the biomass in a pond. In this scenario, the developed system can maintain the DO level with its smart embedded technology without human intervention. Besides that, it can reduce the cost of energy consumptions of continuous aerator operation or required manpower to operate the aerator. The developed system is deployed in different water areas like aquarium, ponds, fish tank etc. to test the working process of the system as well as the DO readings from the sensor. The system generated DO readings were validated with lab tested results. The system was also tested for the aerator functioning when DO level goes below the threshold level. All the results were satisfactory (Table 1).