 [Action: ADG (EQR)] Thereafter, agenda-wise discussion was taken up and the recommendations emerged are as follows: Agenda 1: Current Status and Future Thrusts of Higher Agricultural Education Dr Arvind Kumar, DDG(Edn.) made a comprehensive presentation highlighting the various activities initiated by the ICAR for strengthening and development of higher agricultural education in the country. He mentioned that development of institutional linkages at national and international levels, improving the faculty competence, enhancing the institutional capacity for course content development, modern delivery systems, and examination and governance mechanisms at the universities; emphasis on e-learning and teaching including e-content/resource development; networking and strengthening of libraries along with promotion of ICTs, connectivity, video conferencing etc. provision of Visiting/Adjunct Faculty in specialized areas, identification of more areas for support under Niche Area of Excellence, development of need based Experiential Learning Units for hands-on training to students, mobilizing youths towards agriculture, creating few other Centers of Advance Studies, inter-institutional faculty 5 and students exchange are some of the areas which need adequate attention at university level. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 2: Changing Perspectives in Agricultural Extension: Krishi Vigyan Kendra—A Knowledge and Resource Centre Dr K.D. Kokate, DDG (Agril. Extn), ICAR mentioned that Agricultural Knowledge Management is gaining centre stage of agricultural extension system to avail the benefits of information revolution. We should have thorough understanding of emerging extension models both at national and international levels. It may be in the form of Farmer led extension, market- led extension, ICT-enabled extension, public–private partnership. Extension research should focus on refining and up-scaling these emerging models, scaling up government agricultural development programs, building strategies for greater adoption of frontier technologies like GM (biotechnology) and nano-technology. He added that for KVKs to be effective knowledge and resources centres, KRCTO model can be adopted. The model includes—Knowledge: Farming systems and productions systems, agricultural technology, markets (demand and prices) and policy; Resources: Infrastructure to provide necessary Technological backstopping and capacity building; Competency: Evaluating technologies, processing and value addition, weather based agro advisories, market intelligence and agro-logistics; Technology Products: Critical technology products, and problem solving consultancy is to be provided; Organizing farmers: To exchange information, facilitating learning from experience and support in decision making. To efficiently play the role of knowledge and resource centres, KVKs need to be strengthened by increased technological backstopping by ICAR and SAUs.