 Salient achievements Fishery sciences • Technology of production of seaweed sanitizers was transferred to M/s Kerala Nutraceuticals Pvt. Ltd., Kerala. • Methodology was developed for the preparation of chitosan nanoparticles loaded fish gelatin membrane. • Biocompatible poly (vinyl alcohol)/starch based composite hybridized films developed. • A loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay as well as a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting major capsid protein (MCP) gene of CyHV-2 were developed and evaluated for detection of CyHV-2. New LAMP and PCR capable of detecting 10 copies of the plasmid construct containing 942 bp fragment of MCP gene of CyHV-2. • Full length CDs of four major antioxidant genes namely glutathione peroxidase-1(GPX-1), glutathione stransferase (GST-mu), CuZn superoxide dismutase (CuZnSOD) and catalase (CAT) were amplified and the sequences were submitted to the NCBI database. The complete bioinformatic analysis including domain architecture of the genes were carried out. The ontogeny, tissue specificity and the expression levels in three infection models were studied. • Constitutive expression of C9 in rohu during the different stages of ontogeny and in response to pathogen exposures along with high degree of sequence homology with other fish species proved it as an important primitive immune molecule of the complement system lytic pathway. Animal sciences • Using state-of-art molecular techniques picorna viruses were detected for the first time in porcine population of the country. Molecular epidemiological survey established the presence of porcine enterovirus in Indian pig population. Molecular epidemiological survey also established the presence of porcine sapelovirus and porcine teschovirus infection in Indian pig population. • RNAseq based transcriptome data were generated and analyzed in skin fibroblast cells of Sahiwal cows and Murrah buffaloes exposed to heat stress. Several genes and pathways impacted due to heat stress in both the major dairy breeds of India were identified. • Genotype by sequencing data was successfully generated in 105 cattle samples representing 12 native Indian cattle breeds from different agro- climatic regions to identify SNPs and variation in heat responsive genes. By employing Illumina Hiseq 2,000 sequencing platform, 21.32 million raw reads (100 ntq seq files) were generated. A total of 82,878 SNPs tags, were identified in all cattle breeds, with an average SNP to SNP distance of 30 kb across the reference genome. The mean nucleotide diversity among all breeds was 0.178463846. Ongole and Malnadgidda cattle showed the lowest and highest genetic diversity, respectively. The SNPs identified and characterized in the current study serve as useful markers for the conservation, genetic studies and population evaluation of the native Indian cattle breed Bos indicus.