 Recently, the Council has got the support of three projects that are supported by Indo-Swiss and/or Indo-UK Funding Mechanisms. During 2019-20, ICAR has signed a MoU with Heinrich Heine University, Germany to undertake joint research for introducing genome edited traits for bacterial blight resistance into the Indian rice varieties. One of the landmark projects is on next-generation breeding, genotyping and digitization approaches for improving the genetic gain in Indian staple crops supported by the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, USA that is being implemented by the ICAR Institutes with CGIAR collaboration. The collaborations in frontline research in animal sciences being bovine tuberculosis control, antimicrobial resistance, disease surveillance and molecular epidemiology, etc., and in NRM sector, most foreign-aided projects deal with climate resilience, drought resistant crops, water and nutrient use efficiency, etc. 26 Germplasm Exchange One of the important aspects of this global partnership is that India could harness the potentials of global germplasm. Through various MoUs and agreements, ICAR enabled exchange of over 1.75 lakhs of germplasm from different global partners during the last 5 years that helped in explorative and futuristic agricultural research in India. It may be noted that this exercise of germplasm exchange is as per the provisions of National Biodiversity Act 2002 and the Biological Diversity Rules, 2004 as notified by the Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change, Govt. of India. Through neighborhood partnership, we got about 127 accessions during 2015-19 from the SAARC nations, and exported 803 wheat accessions to SAARC nations, particularly Bangladesh for screening against blast diseases. In addition, as high as 27,79,878 samples were imported from the CGIAR nurseries for testing at different locations. All these helped in developing stress resistant, resilient and improved crop varieties. One of the notable example of ICAR’s partnership in field crops is the landmark development of Swarna sub-1 rice that can tolerate complete submergence for two week due to flash flooding. HRD and Capacity Building As the mandate of DARE-ICAR is on research and education in agriculture and allied fields, all the MoUs and Work Plans cover capacity building programmes Figure 2. Foreign participants trained in India under various training programmes 27 including study visits and training of scientists. This has enabled exchange of scientists between countries for training and visits. Year-wise details of scientists trained since 2012 is given in Figures 2 & 3. During the last 5 years (2014-2019), ICAR trained 219 foreign delegates in different specialized areas in agricultural research, and also deputed 156 ICAR scientists abroad for training.