 However, this problem can be significantly addressed through implementation of diverse bio-terracing model. These models can effectively enhance organic matter content, micronutrient levels, moisture conservation within soil. Nonetheless, local communities, known as Jhumia, have played a crucial role in preserving agro-biodiversity through their adherence to traditional rules, practices, and informal networks for seed exchange and knowledge sharing. It is important to note that tribal people in these regions possess a strong aversion to use of chemical fertilizers, which has contributed to degradation of soil quality in Jhum areas. Therefore, implementation of various bio-terracing models, which include leguminous green manuring shrubs, emerges as most suitable approach for improving soil health & enhancing crop productivity. Green manuring crops are typically incorporated into soil when they are still green or during early flowering stage (~40-50 days after sowing) to conserve soil, nutrients, and moisture. This investment during the specified period proves beneficial for subsequent two crop seasons, leading to improved production. Addition of organic material enhances soil structure (tilth) and simultaneously conserves and returns nutrients utilized by plants back to the soil, thereby enhancing soil fertility. While almost any crop can be used for green manuring, legumes are preferred due to their ability to fix atmospheric N (sesbania, cowpea, greengram, clovers, lentil). Practice of growing legume crops to be incorporated into the soil is an age-old agricultural technique that is gaining popularity once again. Furthermore, soil N content is closely associated with organic matter, and decomposition of organic matter significantly influences availability of soil nutrients. Therefore, it is important to discuss the quantity and sources of organic matter in Rakesh Kumar1, Bal Krishna2, Manoj Kumar1 and Sanjeev Kumar2 Prospects soils, as well as factors that contribute to its increase and its role in soil health. Soil organic carbon plays a vital role in improving the physical, chemical, and biological properties of soil. In hills where perennial water sources are present, cultivation of green manure crops has proven highly successful in enhancing soil health of Jhum land, which suffers from deficiencies in organic matter, N, P & other micronutrients. Consequently, incorporating green manuring practices becomes a viable alternative for maintaining the productivity, profitability, and sustainability of Jhum land. Land use patterns There is significant disparity in agricultural growth pattern across country, characterized by variations among the regions, sectors, and farming communities. The Northeastern Hills (NEH) region, comprising states i.e., Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Mizoram, Tripura, Nagaland, and Meghalaya, lags despite its abundant natural resources.