 ŠŠ Attains maturity in the first year of its life and breeds in confined waters, almost throughout the year with two peaks of July-August and March-April. ŠŠ Sexes are distinct during spawning season with females having comparatively large bulged abdomen in comparison to male, and the later exudes thick white milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Captive spawning can be undertaken both in hapa and the hatchery. In both hapa breeding and in circular hatchery, a sex ratio of 1:1 female to male ratio is maintained. ŠŠ Brooders are induced by injecting either pituitary extract (PE) or commercial hormone (CH) in mild doses. Females are induced with a single dose of PG extract @ 2-3 mg or CH @ 0.1-0.2 ml/kg and males injected with PE @ 2 mg or CH @ 0.1 ml/kg and brooders are released into spawning pool/ hapa in the ratio of 1:1. Since common carp eggs are sticky, either aquatic weeds or polythene/ netting strips are spread in the spawning tanks substratum. ŠŠ Spawning occurs within 6-8 h of hormone administration. One kg female lay around 1.5 lakh eggs. Rate of fertilization is generally 80-95%. ŠŠ Stripping method of spawning is also practiced. In this method, male and female gametes are collected by stripping and fertilized by mixing them. As soon as eggs come in contact with water it becomes sticky. Therefore, it is essential to remove the stickiness to enable them proper handling and successful hatching, which is performed by using salt carbamide (fertilization solution) (30 g carbamide + 40 g NaCl dissolved in 10 l clean water) or cream milk method (20 g of full cream milk powder, fat content 26-28% in one litre of water). ŠŠ Eggs are kept for hatching either in hatching hapa or spawning tanks of hatchery, where they hatch within 36-48 h. The yolk-sac of the hatchling gets absorbed in 72 h and free-swimming spawn is developed with hatching rate of more than 70%. ŠŠ Spawn are reared in nursery ponds or concrete tanks for 15 days for raising fry. Compiled by: Dr Sudhir Raizada and Dr P. Routray More information: Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, U.P. Email: director.nbfgr@icar.gov.in 49 Silver Barb Barbonymus gonionotus (Bleeker, 1849) ŠŠ An exotic barb of south-east Asia, has long been domesticated in India for culture in seasonal ponds as well as a component in carp polyculture system. A preferred fish species in eastern and north-eastern India. ŠŠ An aquatic weed feeder and hence preferred for culture in weed infested ponds and tanks for their control. ŠŠ Attains maturity in the first year and breeds twice in a year. Sexes are well distinguished at maturity with females having large bulged belly and red vent. Males are slender and ooze milky-white milt when abdomen is gently pressed. ŠŠ Brooders are reared in pond either alone or along with other carps. Mature brooders of 2+ year age having size 400-700 g, in sex ratio of 1:1 female to male are used for breeding.