 Š Š Inadequate Veterinary Infrastructure and livestock services delivery system. Poultry Constraints in Poultry Š Š Low availability of good quality poultry germplasm. Š Š Loss of poultry birds due to pathogenic diseases particularly New castle disease, Fowl cholera etc. Š Š Poor input delivery system. Š Š Inadequate cold chain facilities. Š Š Inadequate capacity for proper hatchery management and feed formulation. Š Š Lack of new marketing strategies for augmenting sale of poultry and poultry products. Š Š Lack of organised cooperatives and cluster farming for better utilization of resources. (xii) Inland Fish Constraints in aquaculture Š Š Aquaculture is not used as primary farming and entrepreneurship activity. Š Š The large water bodies are not in use for fish farming due to poor quality. Š Š Adoption of traditional practices, low input and with limited use of quality seed and feed formulation by the fish farmers. Š Š Lack of capacity building/awareness of farmers for best aquaculture practices including disease management. Š Š Fisheries sector not getting equivalent status like agriculture, facing difficulties in getting loans and rate of electricity being very high. 615 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 29.2 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income Strategy Action Plan 1. Low productivity of crops as compared to national average and efforts are required to improve the productivity /situation Crop diversification, varietal intervention, intercropping and crop establishment techniques like SRI (System of rice intensification), SWI (System of Wheat Intensification). On-farm and In situ moisture conservation and water management, increasing water use efficiency through micro-irrigation e.g. drip/sprinkler system, bed planting, spaced sugarcane planting techniques (SPAT) for quick multiplication, cultivation of short-duration summer mungbean after wheat and its intercropping with sugarcane, increasing cropping intensity in rice-fallow areas by promoting cultivation of short- duration lentil, linseed and mustard for higher returns. ™ ™ Adoption of SRI technology using high yielding varieties/ hybrids leading to enhancing production by 20-25%. Green manuring before rice cultivation for improving soil organic matter content and foliar spray of micronutrients for correcting Zinc and Iron deficiency. ™ ™ Popularization of Swarna Sub-1 rice variety in waterlogged areas. ™ ™ Adoption of input use efficient high yielding varieties for improving production by 10-15% over traditional low productive varieties. The potential varieties are listed in Table 32, Table 33, Table 34, Table 35, Table 36 and Table 37. ™ ™ Immediate distribution and dissemination of leaflets and bulletin containing information about promising varieties, recent technologies, system intensification models, several Government schemes, success stories etc.