 yy Seed bio fortification with Rhizobium and PSB culture should be done before sowing for better plant stand and yield. yy Apply pre-emergence herbicide Pendimethalin @ 1.5 /ha for weed control. 143 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS OILSEED: Groundnut yy Sowing of Groundnut could be completed from 15th May to June first week using high yielding variety like ICGS 76, ICGV 91114 and Girnar 4. yy Pre emergence weedicides Butachlor may be used to control upland weeds @ of 10 ml/ litre of water. yy For higher crop production NPK @ of 20:60:40 may be applied for better yield yy Seed bio fortification with Rhizobium and PSB culture should be done before sowing for better plant stand and yield. yy To control Blister beetle that feed on groundnut flower Dichlorvos @ 2 ml per litre of water may be used. Fishery yy Feeding Management: Feed pallets maybe given at 2% body weight of the fish. If pallet feeds are not available locally available ingredients maybe used, such as Rice bran and Mustard oil cake @ 1:1 ratio or Rice bran and Palm oil Cake @ 1:1 ratio. yy Water Quality Management: To maintain proper quality of pond water 250kg/ ha of lime may be given. If such situations occur where lime is insufficient because of transport restrictions due to COVID 19 lockdowns, Wood Ash may be used. yy Stocking Management: Fish stocking must be done at 5000-8000 fingerlings / ha at the rate of 30:30:40. yy Breeding of IMC& EMC: Locally breed fishes are encouraged during the pandemic to avoid contact with outside individuals. yy Happa Breeding: Happa breeding of Common carp is encouraged and advised so as to avoid procurement from outside. Starting from 1st June to the end of July. yy Stocking can be done from 1st week of July and only locally produced fingerlings are advised for procurement during the pandemic. 144 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Piggery yy Deworming of pigs using Albendazole/ Fenbendazole @7-10mg/ kg body wt empty stomach starting from the 1st week of May and repeat after 3 months interval to avoid parasitic infestation. yy Cleaning of pig pen using disinfectants like Sodium/Calcium hypochloride @1-2% inside the pen and outside the farm premises starting from 1st week of May and repeat every 2-3 days interval to avoid viral and bacterial diseases. yy Cleaning of storage tank using bleaching tablet/powder. And provide regular clean drinking water. yy Proper drainage system for proper waste management and to avoid infections from pig faecal materials. yy To avoid stress, give immune booster and clean the pigs with cool water and soaps. Poultry yy Vaccination of chicks from 1st May using Mareks vaccine, Ranikhet vaccine and IBD vaccine by following proper vaccination schedule. yy Prepare proper feed storage room to avoid spoilage and fungal infections. yy Disinfecting the poultry equipment, surroundings with chemicals like Kohrsolin, Germex spray.