 Hence, a need was felt to develop a document that could address different issues related to organization, its personnel and their interaction with the world. The present document has v been prepared after taking inputs from directors of various institutes and pondering over the bottlenecks indicated by them in establishing ‘brand ICAR’. Interaction with media, effective utilization of spaces, dealing with stakeholder and public, contracting and outsourcing certain activities are some of the issues addressed in this document. These guidelines, including some of the annexures, are mostly in suggestive nature and are expected to be followed in spirit for effective branding of the ICAR. Over all, the committee attempted to: Raise the bar for branding the ICAR; Raise the feel-good factors within the ICAR; Raise the belongingness to the ICAR; Raise the visibility and marketability of the ICAR; and Raise the impression of the ICAR. The document was considered for publication and the approval of the ICAR’S Governing Body held on 29th June, 2020 is annexed in the document for reference and adoption at appropriate level. – Drafting Committee vi Foreword iii Preface v Branding Efforts 1 Individual Level 1 Institute Level 2 § Media and Public Interaction 2 § Website of the Institute: 4 § Pointers for utilizing potential spaces in the institutional 5 area for brand visibility and advertisements Dos 7 Don’ts 8 § Content Management 8 § Goodies & Products 9 Organisation (ICAR) Level 10 Third Party Level 12 Annexures i. Governing Body Approval for the Guidlines for Promoting 13 Brand ICAR ii. Features and Specifications for Personal Identity Cards 14 iii. Features and Specifications for Personal Visiting Cards 17 iv. Features and Specifications for Official Letter Heads 18 v. Model Terms of Reference (TOR): Empanelment of press 20 and media communication specialist(s) vi. Guidelines for use of ICAR Logo 24 viI. Guidelines for Participation of ICAR in national/ 32 international Exhibitions and Kisan Melas etc. viiI. Check List (Participation of Council in Exhibitions) 38 CONTENTS Guidelines for Promoting Brand ‘ICAR’ GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 1 Branding Efforts The brand of a large organization like ICAR could be made visible and prominent at four different levels. These four levels and possible way of promoting brand ICAR is as shown below: yy Individual – ID Cards, Visiting Cards, Letter Head, Personal Items (caps, necktie, T- shirt, tie-pins, lapel pins, etc.), e-mail signature, etc. yy Institute – Website, Building Façade, Boundary Walls, Displays, Hoardings, Media Activities, Goodies, Products Developed and Sold, Carry Bags, Packaging Materials, Stickers, etc.