 tuberosum tubers Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Ploidy analysis through flow cytometry for confirmation of diploids a) Diploid b) Tetraploid March–April 2021 43 Praveen K Singh*, Selvakumar R, Mam Chand Singh, Hira Singh Bhupal, Jugender Kumar and Ravi Gautam Vegetable grafting for combating stresses and to increase productivity Vegetable production faces many challenges of biotic and abiotic stresses. Gene introgression for stress resistance is time consuming and laborious and limited by crossability barriers as well as linkage drag. Vegetable grafting is seems to be an easy and successful alternative to face these challenges. Research G RAFTED vegetable plants are ‘physical hybrids’ resulting from combining at least two genotypes/ varieties, a rootstock and at least one scion; the first used to provide important traits and the second used to produce fruit. Grafting is a surgical technique to facilitate fusion of two sets vascular tissue of two different plants. It serves as a rapid alternative approach to combat stress. This technique is becoming popular in the members of Solanaceous and cucurbitaceous crop to reduce infection by soil-borne pathogens and increase survival and to induce vigour, precocity, better yield and quality. The process is analogous to organ transplantation in that rootstock and scion varieties and seedlings must be compatible, the operating room and patients clean and disease-free, the grafter using appropriate methods, and the newly-grafted plants allowed to recover under specific conditions. Objective of vegetable grafting are to reduce dependence on agrochemicals for organic production and to impart tolerance against biotic and abiotic stresses as well to increase the production and productivity. Vegetable grafting history and Indian perspective Grafting of vegetable seedlings is a unique horticultural technology practiced for many years in East Asia to overcome issues associated with intensive cultivation using limited arable land. This technique was first practiced by grafting watermelon (Citrullus lanatus) onto pumpkin (Cucurbita moschata) rootstock in Japan and Korea in the late 1920s. A serious crop loss caused by soil-borne diseases aggravated by successive cropping was avoided by production of vegetables with grafted seedlings. In many fruit-bearing vegetables such as watermelon, cucumber, melon, tomato, eggplant and pepper, the use of grafted seedling has become increasingly popular. Grafting is an environment-friendly approach which is used to control soil borne diseases and increasing the yield of susceptible cultivars.