 -Soil type: Predominantly sandy loam/silty loam -Agriculture productivity: Low -Crop diversification: Relatively good - Water table: Deep -Terrain: Undulating -Soil erosion -Water run-off II. Central Plain This region cuts through the state from north-west to south-east. This region covers about 67% area of the Punjab. Zone-2 is comprised of districts of Amritsar, Barnala, Faridkot, Fathegarh Sahib, Ferozepur, Jalandhar, Kapurthala, Ludhiana, Moga, Patiala, Sangrur, Tarn Taran, and parts of Bathinda, Gurdaspur, Nawanshahr, Hoshiarpur, and Mohali. The mean maximum temperature is 29.6+/- 0.7°C and the mean minimum temperature 16.7+/- 0.8°C. The mean annual rainfall is 703.9+/- 152.7 mm. -Soil type: Predominantly sandy loam -Agriculture productivity: High -Crop diversification: Relatively mono-culture of paddy-wheat -Groundwater: Depleting -Injudicious use of fertilizers and agro- chemicals III. South- Western This region lies in the extreme south-west covering nearly 23.5% area of Punjab. It includes the parts of Bathinda district, and Mansa, Mukatsar and Fazilka districts. The mean maximum temperature is 29.6+/- 0.4 °C and the mean minimum temperature 17.2+/- 0.6°C. The mean annual rainfall is 422.8+/- 43.3 mm. -Soil type: Predominantly loamy sand -Groundwater: Brackish -Problem of waterlogging in some parts -Crop pattern: Wheat-paddy and wheat-cotton -Irrational use of agro- chemicals 456 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 1.2 Livestock Sector Production and productivity: There exists a huge gap in the yield levels of the milch animals of various producing categories. If these gaps are narrowed down by improving the milk yield of small and marginal farmers, it will help a lot, in improving the growth rate of dairy sector Animal health issues: Huge economic losses are incurred on account of various livestock diseases and nutritional imbalances in the state. Existing facilities at veterinary dispensaries, hospitals are inadequate. Poor quality and shortage of fodder: Fodder is one of the most important and critical input to productivity. Availability of green fodder is inadequate as only about 10 % of the total cropped area is under fodder production. Environmental issues: Animal waste management, higher residue levels due to pesticide application& heavy metals, emergence of food borne pathogens, antibiotic and anthelmintic resistance, veterinary drug residues and climate changes are posing a threat to the environmental safety. Rising input costs: Increase in price of milk (24 – 27 %) is not commensurate with the increase in cost of milk production (32 – 47 %) during last couple of years due to which the profit margins have been squeezed. Viability of small and marginal dairy farms: Structure of dairy farming is changing now. Earlier animals were kept mainly at the level of marginal and small farmers.