 Mud crab, Scylla serrata, is an economically important crustacean species which is also being cultured. Mud Crab Reo Virus (MCRV) is Overview icar annual report 2022-23 8 an emerging viral pathogen in mud crab culture. On RT-PCR screening, MCRV were detected in gills and hepatopancreatic tissues. Herpesviral haematopoietic necrosis disease (HVHND) is caused by CyHV-2, which causes severe mortality in goldfish. A rapid and sensitive RPA (Recombinase Polymerase Amplification) assay, coupled with lateral flow dipsticks (LFD) was developed by designing specialized RPA primer, LFA primers and probes. The RPA-LFD assay developed presents a simple, rapid and sensitive method for point- of-care diagnosis of CyHV-2, especially under resource limited conditions. A Coliphage cocktail for controlling antimicrobial resistant (AMR) E. coli, containing 10 coliphages, selected based on their broad host range, varied location and their ability to lyse AMR E. coli was developed. The Coliphage cocktail has a phage titer of ~1012 to 1014 pfu/ml and can be used for the control of E. coli and AMR E. coli on food contact surfaces. The Coliphage cocktail can be stored under chilled conditions (<4â°C) condition for a minimum period of 3 months. Soil and Water Productivity: Micro level agricu- ltural land-use planning, soil and water conservations, water harvesting, storage and groundwater recharge, improvement in water productivity and nutrients use efficiency, integrated nutrient management, resource conservation technologies, chemical free agriculture, integrated farming system, waste-water use, dryland, hill and coastal agriculture, weed management, precision agriculture, climate resilient agriculture, abiotic stress management was given special thrust. The land resource inventory (1:10,000 scale) for Bundelkhand region prepared for sustainable land use, spectral signature library of the soils of India for quick and inexpensive acquisition of surface soil properties, potential crop planning zones of Telangana, and land suitability analysis for turmeric in Kerala under projected climate change scenarios were accomplished. The groundwater quality map of Madhya Pradesh for irrigation and groundwater recharge plan for Korba and Janjgir-Champa districts in the upper Mahanadi Basin developed. ICAR-CSSRI and NTPC joint study on efficiency of flue gas desulphurization gypsum (FGDG) revealed 8-11% decline in saline soil pH after one year of FGDG surface application (0-15 cm depth) and neutralization of soil alkalinity improved paddy yield by ~40%. A Solar Irrigation Pump Sizing Tool (SIPS) was developed for large scale adoption by farmers and support the PM-KUSUM initiatives. To promote organic farming, packages for 5 cropping systems for Gujarat, Rajasthan an Uttarakhand were developed. ICAR-NIASM developed beta version of the Abiotic Stress Information system (ASIS) consisting of modules on Atmospheric and Soil Stress information for generating query based geo-spatial maps.