 19. SFLF fields and farmer from Chenua & Saharadiyo Village, Odisha Fig. 20. SFLF fields at Gingia village, Assam Fig. 21. Training on diploid hybridization on potato and on Biofortification in CIP-Lima 57 The International Rice Research Institute (IRRI), a member of the Consortium of the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) was established on 9th December, 1959 with the headquarters at Los Banos, Republic of the Philippines. IRRI is a world leader in rice research. It has direct presence in the 17 rice growing countries in Asia and Africa. IRRI technologies are being used by > 65 countries. Over more than six decades of operation, IRRI has amassed a unique portfolio of research products and intellectual assets on different aspects of rice systems, which remain as public goods. Ever since its establishment, IRRI has had a close relationship with Indian agricultural research institutions/ universities. India was one of the signatories to IRRI’s Charter when it was established. Senior Indian scientists and government officials have served almost continuously on IRRI’s Board of Trustees since its establishment. Indian scientists at IRRI have contributed significantly to IRRI’s success in using cutting-edge science to help bring food security, economic growth, and environmental protection to the world through their dedicated research and administrative efforts. Dr. M.S. Swaminathan, the first World Food Prize Laureate in 1987, served as IRRI’s fourth director general during 1982-88. Dr. G.S. Khush, a rice breeder and 1996 World Food Prize laureate worked for 34 years at IRRI and made most outstanding countless contributions to keep the Green Revolution in rice production on right path. Over the years, more than 50 Indians have distinguishingly served/ serving IRRI. IRRI collaborative work with ICAR institutes and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) in India has immense contribution to the development of the rice sector. Nearly half of total high yielding varieties of rice released in India over the past 60 years have used IRRI’s germplasm in the varietal development. Nearly one-fourths of India’s rice genetic improvement accounted for IRRI’s germplasm during the period, 1966-2015 contributing to around 15% of total rice area accounted for IRRI’s germplasm. Having contributed immensely to enhancing food security in India and the region over the last five decades, through a Cabinet decision of the Government of India, IRRI recently established a South Asia Regional Centre (ISARC) at Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, which was inaugurated by the Hon. Prime Minister Narendra Modi in December 2018.