4, the image sensing unit (camera) available in a smart phone or drone would capture the images of leaves in the paddy field. These images are transmitted to cloud server that runs the Al algorithm to detect any of the four leaf diseases occur and communicates the outcome to the mobile app on the farmer’s smart phone. - Definition and description of sub-systems The use case was tested in a rural place of Tamilnadu, called ‘Paimpozhil’, located in Tenkasi district. Pictures of the agricultural farm land was captured on a regular basis and the data thus collected was processed at a cloud server. The neural network based optimization algorithm, which was trained on the various data sets, detected the presence of leaf diseases such as blast, blight etc. The outcome of the algorithm could be received through a mobile app. c. Communication infrastructure (a) Drone/ Smart Phone with cellular connectivity such as LTE/ 5G for control and live transmission of images to the cloud server. (b) 2.4 GHz/ 5.8 GHz might also be used for Wi-Fi communication between drone and the local hub, which would later transmit the images over cellular/ wireline network. - Interfaces, protocols for communications - (a) LTE/5G connectivity (modem) (b) Wi-Fi NIC TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 80 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 81 d. Deployment considerations Images from the paddy field were taken using smart phone and sent to cloud server using 4G. Since the number of images was considerably high, the latency of the system was significant. The delay performance could be improved, if the smart phones are replaced by drones and transmit the images using 5G. Alternatively, smart phones/ drones may transmit to local hubs and further to cloud. e. Regulatory considerations Country-specific regulation related to drones. 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - Performance and evaluation criteria The performance of the presented use case is evaluated by generating the confusion matrix for the applied AI algorithm. - Qualitative and quantitative comparison of before and after implementation of the use case, the comparison can be illustrated by graphs, tables, figures, etc., Based on the identification of blast-affected images among the normal images, the training phase accuracy of K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) classification algorithms is demonstrated. Among the normal images, 99% of the blast- affected images are detected by ANN classifier. However, the KNN classifier only offers 90% accuracy. In the training phase, the detection accuracy for normal images is 99% for ANN and 90% for KNN, respectively. The efficiency of both ANN and KNN classifiers during testing, where KNN and ANN's accuracy for detecting typical images is 63% and 88%, respectively.