 The time required to appear these problems and their severity vary with soil type, cropping system adopted by the farmers, maintenance of the canals and presence of network of natural drains in the command areas. Indiscriminate and excess use of water by farmers and faulty irrigation application system, the worst fears came true in the form of water logging and secondary salinization particularly in low lying areas of Ukai-Kakrapar Command (UKC) on river Tapi in South Gujarat. In UKC Success Story Indian Farming November 2020 15 planned proper drainage and other land planning initiatives. Development of efficient drainage system and its maintenance, provision of interceptor and collective surface drains, plantation of bio- drainage trees resulted into lowering of water table and farmers are able to cultivate their land. The farmers of UKC have not simply adopted the CSSD in affected area, but they are also doing some modifications in the system, so as to meet their site- specific requirement. Many farmers have been benefited with this achievement but Patel’s farm at Virpor and Ghala village, Taluka Choriyasi, Surat district, Guajarat, emerged as a leader in adopting the package of technologies for reclaiming barren land due to water logging and salinity (Fig. 1 and 2), the success story is addressed here. Farmers details: The closed subsurface drainage has been installed on the fields of Shri Morarbhai Koyabhai Patel, Head of family, Shri Balvantbhai Morarbhai Patel and Nayanbhai Morarbhai Patel are the son at Virpor and Ghala village, Taluka Choriyasi, District Surat of Gujarat state in the command of Surat branch under Ukai Kakrapar irrigation project with the technical support from Soil and Water Management Research Unit, Navsari Agricultural University, Navsari, Gujarat. Objective: The basic objective of drainage is to remove excess water from the waterlogged fields. Further, it also helps in reducing secondary salinization/ sodicity problems from the field. The other problems related to water logging conditions are poor growth and yield of crops, land workability (preparation) and higher infestation of pest and diseases are the problems due to continuous wet condition i.e., vapsa condition is not attained. All these aspects have negative impact on crop growth and ultimately reduce yield. Subsurface drainage installation helps in lowering the water table below root zone by draining excess water and also reclaiming the salt affected soils. General characteristics and history of fields: The soils are heavy with more than 48% clay. The soil is moderately alkaline in reaction, and high in soil salinity. The soil salinity in most parts of the area is higher than 6.5 dS m-1 at all the depths. On the basis of electrical conductivity of saturation extract (ECe) of soils, most of the area has been identified as saline. The water table of this area is highly fluctuated and observed at soil surface during monsoon season and 1.