 loT infrastructure | Database management and loT management company Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Veterinary Service Provider Veterinarian Advising/treating based on diagnosis for mastitis management and treatment Infrared Thermal Device Owned by the farmer or Veterinarian or veterinary field worker Sourcing the device Image Capturing by the farmer or by the veterinary field worker Veterinary Field worker or farmer Database management and uploading the thermogram with details about the animals loT Infrastructure Management Company Engineers Database management in clouds Image processing Algorithm optimization and validity Analysis of the Image and sending the prediction Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Online IR image capturing before milking or after milking by IR Camera WAN and LAN, 4G and 5G network Mobile Technology Or through the IPV6 network Database and running of algorithms in the cloud Computer server loT infrastructure TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 106 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 107 9.5. Use case: IoT based Dissolved Oxygen (DO) Monitoring and Management System in Cultured Fisheries Source: Dr. Basant Kumar Das, ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI) Kolkata, India Part A 1. Introduction Fish and shellfish culture especially in inland fisheries have gained momentum due to ever- increasing demand of those substances. Growth and survival of those aqua products like fish and shellfish are very much dependent on the ambient environment. Among different water parameters, role of dissolved oxygen and toxic gases like ammonia is well known. Fisherman/ fish farmer used to take suitable remedial measures to lessen the stresses caused by those parameters from their congenial range. In this scenario, aerators or water lifting pumps are used to operate to increase the oxygen level in the water. In recent years, advancement in automation technology resulted in development of technologies that can improve the water quality of the fish farm, thus leading to increase fish production. Moreover, aquaculture and sensor-based water quality monitoring system have exponentially grown in the world but, combination of both domains still remains at its early stage. Generally, sensors are particularly vital in systems where water is recirculated and where stocking levels are high, but they are generally expensive, low limits of detection, high maintenance requirements. Many a cases, fisherman takes experience-driven management steps, rather than data driven which often not properly timed. Hence, an integrated automated system is necessary which will simultaneously identify the real issue and initiate appropriate management steps in real time to address the problem.