 Also, famers should practice ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 183 burning of dry neem leaves especially in morning and evening hours to reduce mosquito bite to livestock. Š Š Livestock farmers should take up cultivation of improved crops during the kharif making use of monsoon. Š Š All sheep and goats especially young ones from 3 months to 1 year of age should be Š Š Maintain litreter qualitrey in deep litreter system rearing of poultry birds to avoid Coccidiosis Š Š All back yard poultry birds compulsorily should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease. Fisheries: Š Š Maintain 6 feet water in the fish pond for proper growth and development of fishes. Š Š Remove unwanted plants and animals prior to release of fishes in the pond. Š Š As a supplementary food, floating pallets or groundnut cake (25%), paddy husk (40 %), sweet potato powder (10%), fish meal (24 %), vitamin and mineral mixture (1%) should be mixed and feed scientifically. Continue to feed fishes 3-5 % of body weight on daily basis. Š Š The suitable breeds for fresh water aquaculture are catla, rohu, mrigal, amur common carps, jayanti rohu, pungasius, GIFT tilapia, grass carp, silver carp, murrel. Prior to release of fingerlings (15 days) mix cow dung (100 kg/100 m2) in the pond for plankton production. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 184 These advisories are intended to enhance the preparedness for taking up appropriatemeasuresinthe event of deficitrainfall situations Kerala General Advisory: Conserve water in surface and sub surface horizons of soil which in turn address drought related issues in coconut, arecanut, pepper, cocoa, nutmeg etc. Intercultural operations in uplands during the onset of south west monsoon and subsequent operations during the offset of North east monsoon will helps in conserving surface moisture helping almost all crops in home steads and uplands especially in plain lands of High hills and mid land laterites. Use gypsum to manage soil acidity by blending with conventional soil ameliorants in equal proportion is beneficial in increasing the nutrient use efficiency of almost all upland crops like Coconut, Arecanut, Spices like Pepper, Cardamom, Banana and vegetables by managing the acidity in subsurface soil Paddy In dry / wet direct seeded paddy fields, land preparation can be done on the receipt of pre monsoon showers. Addition of soil ameliorants, preferably lime or dolomite @ 2 kg/ cent as initial split should be made mandatory along with first ploughing. Crop residues should be well incorporated into the soil during first ploughing and FYM can be reduced to 50 % of the above dosage. As a prophylactic measure, the seeds can be soaked in a solution of Pseudomonas culture (10 grams for 1 kg seeds) to control sheath blight, sheath rot, leaf spot disease etc. The seedlings can be soaked for 30 minutes in pseudomonas solution (20 gram Pseudomonas in one litre of water).