 The leaves and seeds are useful in cough, constipation and stomach disorder. Experimenters Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Science University (MASFSU) Dr. N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr. G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr. D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr. V.S. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr. Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr. Rajneesh Rana, Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division CIRG, Makhdoom- 281122, Mathura (U.P.). Results and discussion Results obtained for treatment of diarrhoea using takala flower juice revealed that, administration of takala flower juice significantly reduced the dehydration score and faecal consistency particularly in cases of non-parasitic diarrhoea. The average recovery period in ITK treated groups was 4 and 6 days in parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea respectively. The standard treatment, however, brought about clinical recovery within 2 and 5 days respectively. This indicated possible anthelmintic activity of the flower juice of takala (Cassia tora). The changes in haemato- biochemical paramaters simulated the clinical recovery profile. Antibiogram of Pojo tree bark extract Antobiogram of Cassia tora leaf extract At CIRG overall therapeutic efficacy of takala leaf juice was 60%, which suggested that the juice of takala leaves at the tested concentration was moderately effective in bacterial diarrhoea in goats untoward reaction was noticed during treatment and serum biochemical parameters did not indicate toxicity of ITK . 33 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Conclusion The initial validation study using ITK (flower juice of takala in treatment of diarrhoea was conducted at Veterinary College, MASFSU, Nagpur. The findings recorded moderate degree of effectiveness of the ITK against parasitic diarrhoea in goats. Further trial at the same centre substantiated the previous year’s results with additional finding on the moderate efficacy of the ITK in non- parasitic diarrhoea. Considering non- availability of flowers in different seasons, takala (Cassia tora) plant leaves were assessed for their efficacy against E. coli diarrhoea at CIRG, Makhdoom. The leaf extract showed enough potential as an antidiarhoeal therapy in management of diarrhoea in goats. 7.12 Wound management in animals by use of leaf extract of ridge gourd (Luffa acutangula) or ekdandi (Tridex procumbens) Description of the ITK This practice is followed by the farmers of semi- arid tract of western Maharashtra especially in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Ridge gourd or ekdandi leaves are grind and the juice is extracted. The extracted juice is smeared over the wounds of the animal. This practice effectively controls wound in animals due to antiseptic lotion present in ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves.