com Khasi Mandarin Orchards Pineapple Orchard in Hills of Mizoram Dragon Fruit in Farmer’s Field of Mizoram Indian Horticulture 6 Scenario of Horticulture Research and Development in India and Northeastern India The Northeast region has a vast scope of horticultural crops. The temperate crops have a lot of potential in the hilly regions, similarly, flower crops particularly orchids, Lilium, anthurium, etc. Research on the mushroom cultivation and processing of produce are other potential areas that need to be encouraged in the region. There is a need to promote product diversification in a unit of land through horticulture to increase the land capacity and bring the land to its full potential by linking to assured marketing channels through identifying demands and outlets of the products in Northeast India. H ORTICULTURE is an important agriculture sector contributing towards food and nutrition security. Over the last three decades, horticulture sector has become a driver of economic growth. Horticulture provides an opportunity for crop diversification and intensification for adequate nutritious food and augmenting the income of the farmers. Horticulture production increased 13-fold from 25 million metric tonnes during 1950-51 to 347 million metric tonnes during 2021-22 surpassing food grain production. Currently, with 18% area, this sector contributes to about 33% of the gross value-added to the agricultural GDP of the country. India is the second largest producer of horticultural crops next to China contributing 11.4 and 11.8% to world fruit and vegetable baskets, respectively. India is the largest producer of ginger and okra amongst vegetables and ranks second in production of potato, onion, cauliflower, brinjal and cabbage. Amongst fruits, the country ranks first globally in the production of banana (36.7%), papaya (43.6%) and mango (40.4%), ranks second in cashew and third in citrus. This sector is being considered as a driver of economic growth and gradually turning into an organized industry with key linkages to seed business, value-addition and exports. It is also well established that horticulture plays a key role in doubling the farmer’s income along with meeting the much-needed nutritional security. The area and production of horticultural crops have been increasing constantly over the last decade. The compound growth rate of area expansion is 1.72% while growth rate of the production is 2.78%. The growth rate in productivity of aromatic and medicinal crops, and plantation crops is negative, whereas fruit, vegetable and spices sector performed well during this period. Status of Horticultural Research in India India has a vast diversity of horticultural crops with 109 fruits, 54 vegetables and 27 spice species of economic importance. The indigenous germplasm includes more than 5,000 accessions of fruits, 35,000 vegetables, 500 ornamentals, 6,000 spices and 8,500 medicinal crops.