 The drainage map was used in identifying the poorly drained and well- drained soils separately and thereby, helping to fine tune the AESR map. This led to revising the number of AESRs from 17 to 29 and from 36 to 54 in the Indo-Gangetic Plain and Black Soil Region, respectively. Carbon dynamics in soil-plant system: The emission of methane (CH3) was found significantly higher (26-36 per cent) whereas emission of nitrous oxide (N2O) was lower by 9 per cent under the rice fish system compared to rice alone. Algal isolates capable of higher biomass yield under elevated CO2 level were isolated, maintained and further investigated to find significant increase in their biomass content at higher CO2, levels. At 4 per cent CO2 level, there was 4.8-fold increase in biomass yield, 172 per cent increase in chlorophyll content and 34 per cent increase in lipid yield. It was estimated that approximately 1,350 tons of CO2 per ha per year might be fixed by the alga at 4 per cent CO2 level and thus, indicating its high prospects for carbon trading. The carbon dynamics and greenhouse gases (GHGs) emission in soil-plant system under anticipatory climatic change condition [elevated CO2, (550 ppm) and temperature (2oC above the ambient temperature)] was quantified in low-land submerged rice ecology in open top chambers. A three-year study in Open Top Chamber (OTC) under elevated CO2 along Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 48 with elevated temperature was conducted. The study showed that the carbon allocation under elevated CO2 was in the order of panicle > root > stem > leaf. The stimulatory effect on CH4 and N2O emission under CEC was linked with relevant factors including the higher iron concentration and increased activities of methanogens and extracellular enzymes. Combined application of chemical and organic nutrients as the INM was able to minimize the adverse effect of the elevated CO2, on rice grain yield. The grain N use efficiency also decreased by 4-8 per cent in elevated CO2, as compared to ambient environment under varying nutrient management in OTC experiment. 2.4 Nanotechnology in Agriculture Effect of graded levels of nano selenium supplementation on the performance of broiler chickens: Nano selenium (NSe) was synthesized by chemical method using inorganic sodium selenite as selenium source, GSH as reducing agent and bovine serum albumin (BSA) as stabilizer. The size of the NSe particle was 40–80 nm and shape were spherical with the concentration of 3200 ppm. Also, nano-Se was synthesized by biogenesis and green method by using selenium reducing microorganism isolated from industrial effluents and leaf of spices plants, respectively. Supplementation of 0.15 ppm of nano selenium improves the body weight gain, higher anti-oxidant enzyme status like GPx and SOD activity, both cellular and humoral immunity of the commercial birds.