 The cross of Nicobari (male line) and CARI Red (female line) was adjudged as the best cross combination for dual purpose, i.e. egg and meat production. Successful seed production technologies of Indian pompano (Trachinotus mookalee), pig-face bream (Lethrinus lentjan) and orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides) were developed for uninterrupted supply of quality fish seeds for coastal mariculture and open sea cage farming. The farming of Indian white shrimp, Penaeus indicus, is being popularized because Indian white shrimp can be farmed as an alternative to exotic white-leg shrimp (Penaeus vannamei). The population of hilsa (Tenualosa ilisha), an important food fish of Indian sub-continent, is declining rapidly. Its rearing in brackishwater earthen pond suggested the possibility of captive maturation and reproduction for seed production. Crop management: A long-term tillage experiment in maize-wheat and rice-wheat system indicated that the wheat crop was not affected by tillage in rice or maize. To study the effect of resource conservation technology in pulse based cropping system, experiments conducted for sixth year revealed that system productivity in terms of chickpea equivalent yield was higher in zero tillage and offer residue incorporation. Enhancing crop yield per unit water use through improved agro-techniques involving sprinklers in summer greengram indicated higher stability in Samrat over IPM 205-7. Sprinkler irrigation resulted in less water use (26.3%) with higher water productivity (43.2%) and net return (28.4) over flood irrigation. The analysis of grain yield date after 43 years of experimentation under rainfed soybean-wheat system confirmed that only FYM treated plot provided an increase in the wheat equivalent grain yield than the first year. The average yield with application of 10 tonnes FYM/ha along with recommended NPK (6,730 kg/ha) recorded 106% higher wheat equivalent grain yield than recommended NPK. To minimize the requirement of cane (Sett) for planting, use of ethrel was found promising, which improved the germination and also advanced the germination by 15-20 days. A minimum 0.62% soil carbon (SOC) is required to sustain perennial guinea + cowpea-berseem based organic forage production. This level of SOC can be achieved in minimum 4 years by annual application of 65 tonnes FYM/ha. A liquid Bio NPK formulation containing nitrogen fixing, P solubilizing and K sulubilizing bacteria was developed and validated for performance. Bio NPK was validated for its yield contributing attributes for cereals, millets, pulses, vegetables, fibre and oilseed crops. Seed treatment with silver nanoparticles @ 2 ppm could contain the fungal infection (Macrophomina phaseolina and Rhizoctonia bataticola) by 33.33% in jute and 10% in chickpea seedling compared to 90 and 96.66% infection in untreated plants, respectively. Intervention with center opening of canopy and cutting the cross branches, in 40-year-old sapota cv.