During the course of storage there was faster decline in seed germination, vigour and dehydration activity in gunny bag than in straw bin (Orissa). 28 Sieving device Farmers in Tamil Nadu use traditional sieves to remove dust, immature seeds, stones etc. from threshed pulses. A small-sized sieve made up of steel is used to remove the stones, leaves etc. when the quantity handled is less. A big size sieve made of wire mesh with wooden frame is used to clean, when the quantity handled is more (Tamil Nadu). Lakshmana (2000) 29 Cleaning Sunflower by using sieves (Salladai) Salladai (sieves) are used to remove dust, immature seeds, stones, etc. from the threshed grains. In case of small quantities, a smaller sieve made of steel is used to remove stones and leaves. For larger quantities, a big sieve made of wire mesh with a wooden frame is used. After threshing,sunflower seeds are separated by means of a sieve-like utensil made of Palmyrah leaf sheaths (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 30 Increasing shelf- life of potato Forming a trench around the heap of freshly harvested potato and filling with water enhances shelf-life due to better suberization because of cold storage (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 31 Preservation of processed products, like sunflower or gingelly oil by mixing jaggery Storing with pieces of jaggery in oil, and placing them in mud pots or tins (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 146 POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 32 Packaging of perishables Packaging of perishables like tomato is done in boxes made of bamboo called ‘Tokra’ which are covered with thin gunny bags on the top. The shape of container provides easy carriage of material on human head or back. The structure is easy to clean and dries soon after washing it (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 33 Quality improvement of Avare grains The practice of slight warming and crushing dry pods of Avare enhances quality, storability and facilitates milling as slight warming destroys insect eggs and husk acts as insect trap (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 34 Extraction of tomato seed by lemon juice Generally, tomato seed extraction is done by two methods, viz. acid method and fermentation method. In acid method, hydrochloric acid is used which is costly and beyond the reach of the poor farmers. The fermentation method takes 16- 24 hours and the colour of the seed extracted is not so good, for which the acid method is recommended to get seeds with enhanced colour for fetching good market price. However, in Ganjam district of Orissa, farmers use an indigenous technology for tomato seed extraction. In this practice, lemon juice which contain citric acid is taken as substitute for hydrochloric acid and seeds are treated with the juice for 2-3 hours @ 20 lemons/kg of wet seeds.