 Imparting training to extension functionaries of SAUs, ICAR centres, Line departments, NGOs, and progressive farmers to ensure proper use of the soil health card b. Production of biofertilizers in PPP mode. 4. Promoting Precision Agriculture Most of the farmers are unaware of precision farming technologies a. Mapping soil fertility status including secondary and micronutrients b. Laser land levelling c. Application of fertilizer based on STR and site specific nutrient management a. Imparting training to extension functionaries & progressive farmers on precision agriculture b. Demonstrating crop specific precision farming techniques with real time models. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 155 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 5. Prioritizing Micro- Irrigation Structures (MIS) Farmers still adopt surface irrigation methods without calculating amount and time of water requirements. Indiscriminate use of water especially in canal command areas. a. MIS need to be made compulsory through incentivized schemes. b. Prioritize water conservation practices. c. Persuading farmers to practice irrigation at critical growth stages. d. Promoting furrow, band and foliar irrigation methods. e. Promoting Laser land leveling to increase irrigation efficiency. a. Imparting training to Extension functionaries and progressive farmers on improving WUE and FUE. b. Policy interventions promoting the availability of crop-specific superior grade liquid fertilizers/ secondary/ micronutrients at affordable rates. 6. Leverage Integrated Weed Management Most farmers still practice hand weeding and inter- culturing operations without considering crop- weed competition period. a. Take preventive measures to check weed dispersion. b. Consider crop-weed competition period for effective & economical weed control. c. Cultivation of green manure crops. d. Intercrop with cover crop to check weed. a. Imparting training to extension functionaries and progressive farmers on economical and effective weed management practices. b. Testing new and efficient molecules to be used as weedicides 7. Prioritize Integrated Pest /Disease Management Farmers follow haphazard and indiscriminate use of agro chemicals for controlling pests and diseases. While spraying, insecticides and fungicides are liberally mixed and applied without worrying about the incompatibility of the chemicals. a. Select pest tolerant or resistant variety b. Popularize cultivation with trap crops. c. Follow integrated approach for effective and economical pest control. d. Follow mechanical control measures to control pests/ diseases a. Imparting training to extension functionaries and progressive farmers on IPM and IDM. b. Promoting safe use and application of chemicals. c. Prioritizing training of input dealers. d. Research on new or emerging/ recurring pests and diseases by SAUs and ICAR centres.