 Activities include strengthening teaching and research infrastructure, organizing Distinguished Lecture Series and Special Lectures to inspire students and faculty, conducting National and International training programs, and collaborating with the private sector to develop market-oriented programs. So far, 285 students and 152 faculty members have completed International training, and over 3,500 national-level training programs and seminars have been held to enhance students’ scientific entrepreneurship and research effectiveness. Initiatives undertaken by CAAST partner universities include the development of climate-smart agriculture tools, innovative secondary agricultural technologies, and the establishment of innovative research labs. The Innovation Grants (IG) projects have been awarded to select participating universities to help them achieve accreditation. Till date, 24 sub-projects have been awarded under this component. Key activities include national-level training for faculty enhancement, master’s and Ph.D. sandwich programs, alumni connections, industry seminars, professional workshops, and e-enabled learning activities. It’s noteworthy that, in the past four years, universities under the IG have achieved ICAR accreditation mainly due to support and interventions through NAHEP. A total of 47 faculty members from these institutions have completed International training. The Component 2 aims to support ICAR in carrying out institutional reforms and enhancing its effectiveness in coordinating, guiding, and managing agricultural higher education in the country. Activities undertaken include strengthening key digital infrastructures within the ICAR-AU system, such as the establishment of virtual classrooms at AUs and the effective implementation of the Agri- DIKSHA web channel, which involves the development and upload of e-content by partner universities. Additionally, AR/ VR labs have been established at ten partner universities, and the KVC-Alnet initiative has been launched and scaled up. During the period, a strategic implementation plan was formulated for the phased rollout of blended learning platform (BLP) across 75 AUs and an exclusive single point of contact (SPoC) for BLP implementation. Over 60 SCROM compliant courses are currently in process of development under RAES. Concurrently, sensitisation workshops for Vice chancellors (83 participants), Deans and Directors (246 participants) and BLP SPoCs was carried out for better traction and co-ordination for capacity building. Through-out the year, PIU NAHEP has also undertaken various initiatives to promote the overall program and its agenda at National level. Activities under ‘Azadi Ka Amrut Mohatsav’: 75-ICAR Lecture Series, International Conference on Blended Learning Ecosystem (ICBLE) 2023, Green and Clean Campus Award 22, KRITAGYA AgTech Hackathon 3.