 Symptoms on the leaf appear as small, elliptic to circular spots, with straw colour centre and wide margin. Adjoining spots may coalesce to give a blighted appearance on the leaf. There may be up to 50% loss in grain yield under severe epidemics conditions. Leaf blight is an economically important disease of sorghum causing significant loss on grain and forage sorghum. Millets can be infected by various types of leaf spots including zonate leaf spot, stripe, gray leaf spot and rough leaf spot in sorghum; Cercospora leaf spot, Curvularia leaf spot, Dactuliophora leaf spot and Phyllachora leaf spot in pearl millet; Cercospora and Helminthosporium leaf spot in finger millet and others. These diseases are sporadic in nature Smuts of kodo and barnyard millets Grain mold, ergot and smut on sorghum grains Indian Farming 69 January 2023 and are less damaging, unless they are favoured by congenial weather conditions. They become significant on forage millets. Root and stalk diseases: There are few important root and stalk diseases, which are soil-borne and severely impact plant stand and yield of millets. The most important one is charcoal rot which is commonly observed in rabi (winter) sorghum. Symptom appears as discolouration at the base of the stalk. Pathogen infects root, destroy cortical tissues and may block water movement through vascular bundles. Rotting and breaking of the basal internodes cause lodging of the crop, which in turn facilitates further loss of water from the cracks in the stalk, affecting fodder quality. Yield losses vary from 20–64%. Banded blight is another soil-borne disease, which is commonly observed on all the small millets. The disease is characterized by oval to irregular light grey to dark brown lesions on the lower leaf and leaf sheath. The central portions of the lesions subsequently turn white with narrow reddish brown margins. Later, the spots get distributed irregularly on leaf lamina. Under favourable conditions, lesions enlarge rapidly and coalesce to cover large portions of the sheath and leaf lamina. In severe cases, symptoms appear on peduncles, fingers and glumes as irregular to oval, dark brown to purplish brown necrotic lesions. scale. Under such situation, disease management is focussed on prevention through reduction of primary sources of inoculums, minimization of infections and need based application of bio-control agents for protection from infection and curing. Preventive measures: Practices such as deep ploughing during summer season, cleaning of field bunds after crop season, removal of crop residues from the field, regulating irrigation water from entering into other field not only reduces sources of inoculums or initial inoculums load but also lessens the chances of disease occurrence. Almost all the disease of millets can be managed or kept to a minimum by these practices. Clean cultivation: Practice of clean cultivation includes all the activities that keep the field and the surrounding clean.