 Greatest inventions have happened only when the person is alert and focused — Newton discovered law of gravity while he was relaxing under the tree. Hard work is very important but after intense work one needs time to unwind and sleep is the best unwinder. Methew Halker said that “Sleep is the nature’s best remedy to immortality”. Sleep is the first thing which we have to look for and after enough sleep, falling sick would be reduced automatically. Diet and exercise are also important, but sleep is the basic for healthy life. Mr Khurshed Batliwala, an Art of Living teacher, interest includes importance of rest (sleep, meditation and mindfulness) for sustainable growth and work-life balance of an individual. 176 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Five Steps to Sleep Better 1. Avoid white light in the night as it gives illusion of the day. Use of yellow, orange or red light in night helps melanin secretion that induces sleep. 2. Improve sleep environment by reducing noise and by keeping room temperature cool and comfortable, preferably at around 18-240C. 3. Take a hot shower before sleep at night; it helps one to calm down, improve quality of sleep and induces sleep. 4. Eat dinner three hours before sleep so that energy is rightly used for body recuperation than digestion. 5. Try to sleep and get up at the same time every day. Key takeaways Maintain a regular schedule for sleeping and waking up. It is recommended to sleep in East-west direction, not North-south. Place dhub grass (Cynodon dactylon) under the pillow to avoid nightmares. 177 Health and Good Living INNOVATIONS FOR TRANSFORMATION Krishna Ella In Innovation ranking, India is at the 46th position globally. When an entrepreneur tries resolving a public problem, it leads to innovation. In India, innovation start has been from Hindu mythology (Lord Ganesha is the first example of organ transplanting — xenotransplantation — in the world); Golconda Fort was constructed without the help of engineers (here sound system in each building has a citadel-shape, positioned to transport sound up to three kilometres); discovery of zero (without zero we wouldn’t have developed any software); eye surgeries; diamond cutting etc. Albert Einstein also vouched for Indian innovations and once said “we owe a lot to the Indians who taught us how to count, without which no worthwhile scientific discovery could have been made. Human-beings can innovate through imagination and knowledge by applying skills. Major example is of canola oil in Canada where with some innovative research pungency and colour quality was reduced in view of the preference of the European market (now 50 per cent of Canada export of Agri produce is of Canola oil). Innovation is how better we can use existing resources to produce better product to fetch higher returns.