 Nashik district alone produces more than 25 percent of the total onion production of Maharashtra. Onion growers were chosen randomly from 15 villages in three blocks: Nifad, Sinnur, and Baglan. The blocks were classified into three categories – low, medium, and high production areas of onion – and one block was selected randomly from each category. The districts and villages were chosen based on similarity in agro-climatic conditions between farmers who used contracting firms and farmers who sold independently. The same year, a separate survey in Punjab and Haryana collected information from baby-corn growers in Punjab and Haryana, India. Punjab and Haryana were India’s epicenters of the Green Revolution, where farmers adopted a rice-wheat crop rotation. Adding value to traditional maize, many farmers recently have popularized and cultivated the niche specialty crop known as baby corn. Unlike the typical cereal corn, baby corn can be eaten raw and is included in the diet in several ways, such as in salad, chutney, vegetables, pickles, kheer, and Chinese dishes, but is not used as a provider of starch (Mishra, Mayorga, and Kumar, 2022). Dass et al. (2012) note that baby corn is a young, finger-like, under-fertilized cob of maize with 2, 3 cm of emerged silk. Hooda and Kawatra (2013) note that baby corn, a new vegetable that is not yet so popular, is emerging among progressive farmers around big cities. Additionally, the nutritional value of baby corn is comparable to that of several high-priced vegetables like cauliflower, cabbage, French beans, spinach, lady finger, brinjal, tomato, and radish. Baby corn is becoming popular in domestic and foreign markets and has processing and export potential. Increased demand for baby corn, changing food habits, and improved economic status give baby-corn producers the po­ tential to earn higher profits. Baby-corn farmers were chosen randomly from eight villages in four blocks belonging to Jalandhar and Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar districts in Punjab and Sonipat in Haryana. The districts and villages were selected based on similarity in agro-climatic conditions between farmers who used contracting firms and farmers who sold independently. Fig. 1. Trends in area and output of fruits and vegetables in India, 1990–2020. Note: Own production based on data from FAOSTAT (2022). 7 Smallholders farm only one commodity. There is no cross-over in production of the onions, okra, baby corn, or pomegranate. A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1313 Similarly, in 2016, IFPRI conducted a survey for okra growers from the Baramati block of the Pune district and the Faltan block of the Satara district in Maharashtra. Farmers were selected randomly from those blocks and scattered over 21 villages. The districts and villages were chosen based on similarity in agro-climatic conditions between farmers who used contracting firms and farmers who sold independently.