 Did you inform your seniors about the presence ofMON 531 event in the BN Bt material? Yes. The presence ofMon 531 event in the putative 'BN-Bt' material as a 'perceived concern' was informed in August 2005 to I. Dr B. M. Khadi, Director, CICR 2. Dr Sheoraj, Head Crop Protection and 3. Dr S. K. Banerjee, Principal Scientist Entomology. 14. Why not others, i.e., DDG (CS), Dr V.V. Singh and Dr Sumanbals Singh? It was only a perceived concern at this stage in 2005 and Dr B. M. Khadi was to take remedial measures ifneeded. In any case, it would be the job ofthe Director to inform DOG (CS), not that ofa senior scientist (I was senior scientist in 2005). After the matter was brought to the notice ofthe immediate seniors Dr S. K. Banerjee, Principal Scientist, Entomology, Dr Sheoraj HOD, and Dr B. M. Khadi, Director, there was no perceived need to - - mention the same to anyone else. Dr V. V. Singh and Dr Sumanbala Singh were provided with the result sheets as is the normal practice. 15. There are various documentslletters from CICR during 2008-2009 regarding the performance, spacing, fertilizer requirement, seed production, t"lXation of price for procurement of BN Bt from UAS, Dharwad and t"lXlItion ofsale price. Under what circumstances these communications have been carried out keeping in context the problem existing with the BN Bt event? There was never any context ofany admitted problem with the BN-Bt event about the presence of Mon 531, mentioned by either NRCPB or VAS Dharwad until date at any point oftime, until date, either before distribution ofseeds for cultivation or thereafter. However the possible presence ofMon 531 in the 'purported' 10 BN-Bt seeds was discussed on 21 st May 2008, only at the behest ofDr B. M. Khadi who brought it to the notice ofthe DOG (CS). There were no instructions from the ICAR headquarters, or any contra-indications from NRCPB or VAS Dhawad subsequent to the meeting held on 21 st May 2008, at any point of time before the seeds were distributed for cultivation, either to go slow or stop distribution or re-examine the commercialization or any such instruction contrary to the process of commercialization. Therefore CICR went ahead with the process ofcommercialization. There were two meetings held in 2008 under the chairmanship ofthe DOG (CS). The fIrst meeting was 'regarding road map for the promotion and utilization ofBN-Bt cotton' held on 21 st May 2008 and the second meeting held on 12th December 2008. In the fIrst meeting on 21 st May 2008, the 'presence ofMon 531 in eight out often seeds provided by Dr B. M. Khadi' was discussed. Also the issue offlanking sequences (Avesthagen data) submitted to GEAC for BNLA60I was discussed. The Avesthagen data characterizing BNLA601 event showed right border cotton genome sequences flanking the T- DNA insert which were convincing, since the junction region specifIc primers amplifIed the BNLA60l-event-speciflC amplicon in the WD tests as presented by Dr KatageriIDr P. A. Kumar.