 It is recommended to plough the field when the soil is liquid because doing so requires significantly more tractor horsepower and could lead to greater clod sizes if done when the land is dry. A one-way disc or moldboard may be necessary if the soil is dry. For second workings, disc harrows or tyne devices are ideal. To help soil flow out of bucket, any surface residues must be broken up or eliminated. Step 2: Conducting a topographic survey: When the field has been ploughed, a topographic survey should be conducted to identify the high and low points. By adding together all the readings from the survey and dividing it by the total number of readings, we can determine the mean height of the field from the readings. The mean height of the field can then be calculated using a field diagram and this information can be strategically used to transport dirt from high to low regions. Step 3: Setting up tripod: Unlock the tripod legs, then place each one separately until the base plate is essentially level. Get the base plate level by using the horizon as a visual reference. Adjust the various screws on the transmitter’s base if the laser is not self-leveling to place the bubble in the middle of both circles. Most lasers require a level transmitter to revolve. Attach the receiver to the staff and turn on the sound monitor after the transmitter is level. The laser is now prepared to start taking height measurements. Step 4: Leveling the field: location of laser-controlled bucket should correspond to the field’s average height. Setting the cutting blade just above ground level is recommended (1–2 cm). The tractor should be moved from the field’s higher points to its lower points in a circular motion at a speed of 5 to 6 km/h. In the field, the tractor should be maneuvered in a circular motion from higher to lower areas. As soon as the bucket is almost full of soil, the operator should turn and go in the direction of the lower region to maximize operating efficiency. The tractor should also be turned around and driven back to the upper areas as soon as the bucket is nearly empty. The tractor and bucket should then make a final leveling pass in long runs from the high end of the field to the lower end after covering the entire field in this circular pattern. Once the appropriate level of precision has been reached, the field should be resurveyed. Care must be made to fill the damp portions from the affected edge in a circular motion in wet places where there is a risk of bogging the tractor. Fast-moving wind conditions and fog would render the laser leveler inoperable. SUMMARY A contemporary resource- conservation technology endeavour, laser leveling of agricultural land, has the potential to transform how food is produced by improving resource-use efficiency of essential inputs without having any negative or disruptive consequences on the ecosystem’s productive resilience.