, DARE requested the VCs to review the progress made, lessons learnt and way forward mechanisms and formulate strategies to spend grants on time as revalidation of the sanction may not be possible in the succeeding financial years and emphasised that AUs must develop proper financial management systems. Dr. R.B Singh, Former President, NAAS, stressed the importance of NARS in green and white revolution and told that there is a need to mobilize youth to contribute in Indian economy, especially in agriculture. He appreciated that theme for the next Indian Science Congress has been aptly titled “Youth for Development”. He opined that nurturing of trained person is more essential rather than only imparting training to them. Thereafter, the chairman opened the floor for general discussion and following issues were raised.  Dr. B. Ashok, VC, KVASU, Kerala suggested that special budget could be allocated for enhancing specific skills of the University. Classroom/hostels are required as per demand due to the increasing number of students.    Dr. Narayana Gowda, UAS, Bangalore stressed that priority areas should be set for higher performance and expressed concern about lack of communication skills in students. Knowledge delivery coupled with outcome may be emphasized in the Universities.   5  Dr M.S. Aulakh, VC, MSKRJKVV, Banda raised the issue of score card and desired modifications.   Dr Gaya Prasad, VC &Director, IVRI urged for a strong initiatives to tackle inbreeding among faculty and students in AUs.    Major Gen. Srikant, VC, LLRUVAS, Hisar urged that English teaching may be introduced at UG level to address declining communication skills of students and faculty.    Prof. C.S. Chakraborty, VC, WBUFAS, Kolkata, raised the issue of attracting rural students towards higher agricultural education and motivating them to go back to the farm as entrepreneurs, so as to transfer the benefit of higher education to the farmers.    Dr. S. Honnapagol, Animal Husbandry Commissioner, urged that the AUs must refrain teaching methodology using regional languages and English should be language of instruction. He was of the view that the issues of degree equivalence awarded by the reputed foreign universities should be dealt at the level of Education Division, and minimum standards of higher agricultural education in all disciplines of agriculture should be followed   by all the AUs. He also informed that the Experiential Learning modules have been finalised. He requested that the 5th Dean’s committee under Chairmanship of Dr. R.B. Singh, may submit the report at the earliest.    Dr. S.B. Dandin, VC, UHS, Bagalkot was of the view that rural agricultural work experience should be a part of the UG programmes with at least three credit course. RAWE may be linked to rural school drop-outs and be offered as three or six months certificate course/ diploma with stipend of Rs. 1000/- and after completion students may go back and work with farmers.