 This model enables small and marginal farmers to achieve bargaining power and economics of scale by strengthening backward and forward integration along the supply chain, lowering costs, and improving efficiency by synchronizing and harmonizing selected key operations (such as: land preparation, planting, and harvest). Fig. 17. Mini Tubers Production using Apical Rooted Cuttings Technology Facility ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 55 CIP piloted the SFLF model in 12 locations of Odisha (Fig. 19) and in 3 locations of Assam (Fig. 20). Through this model CIP has demonstrated the benefit of collective efforts in farming operations (Table 7). While the model emphasizes on bringing the small and marginal farmers together, at the same time it opens doors for better availability of inputs (seed, machines, fertilizer and other chemicals) through backward linkage to input suppliers. The potatoes framers from Odisha and Assam, participating in this model shared that for the first time they saw, learned and practiced mechanization for the potato crop – the initiative introduced mechanized potato planters and diggers in all the pilot locations. The initiative got overwhelmed response from farmers in both the states. Farmers participating in this farming model, have claimed that their productivity has doubled, and profit has increased three to four times. Fig. 18. Decentralization of Potato Seed System in West Bengal Table 7: SFLF pilots implemented in 2019 Total Districts Villages Total Number of Participating Farmers Variety Introduced Assam 3 districts Sonitpur Darrang Goalpara 3 Villages 105 Kufri Jyoti (table variety) Lady Rosetta (processing variety) Odisha 4 districts Puri Jagatsinghpur Kendrapada Cuttack 12 villages 500 Kufri Jyoti (table variety) Capacity Building yy Two weeks training for a CPRI scientist on the bio-fortification programme in CIP-Lima. yy Two weeks training program (Fig. 21) for a CPRI scientist on hybrid diploid potato from true seed in CIP-Lima. yy Organized visit of two scientists from Assam to attend World Potato Congress in Cusco, Peru and discuss research programs with CIP scientists in Lima. yy Organized a learning visit for scientists from Haryana and Assam to visit temporary net houses seed multiplication in Dhaka, Bangladesh. yy Organized a learning visit of Scientists from the University of Horticulture Science, Bagalkot, Karnataka to visit apical rooted cuttings seed production in Dalat, Vietnam. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 56 yy Organized a weeklong training on apical rooted cuttings for scientists from CPRI and state agriculture universities in Bangalore. yy Sponsored a scientist from CPRI to participate in CIP led conference on Euro Blight in Beijing, China. yy More than 500 persons including extension workers of Department of Horticulture and farmers trained on best potato production including seed production. Also organized exposure learning visits of potato stakeholders among potato growing states. Fig.