 l The addition of seaweed extract in fruit juice also improves the content of nutri- tionally-essential elements such as iron and calcium. l The technology is aimed at the inter- nationally rapidly growing health promoting beverages industry. Many different combination formulations have been developed with seasonal and mixed fruit juices. Commercialization and availability l The product has been licensed to Kerala Nutraceuticals Pvt. Ltd., Kerala. The company will market the product as a health promoting beverage formulation. 12. CIFTEQ速 Seaweed Nutridrink Compiled by: Niladri S. Chatterjee, C. O. Mohan, S. K. Panda and Suseela Mathew Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 15 CIFTEQ速 Seaweed Cookies About the product l Caulerpa racemosa, commonly known as sea grapes, is a green seaweed that possesses various physiological benefits. l The seaweed is one of the salubrious foods consumed traditionally by the coastal populations. l This seaweed is a good source of essential minerals like calcium, iron and magnesium, and natural antioxidants. l In traditional and folk medicine, Caulerpa has been widely known to treat high blood pressure and rheumatism. l Cookies with Caulerpa racemosa as an ingredient, offer a unique and innovative approach towards the utilization of seaweed as a functional food. l The cookies are rich in protein and dietary fibre contents, along with high phenolic content and antioxidative potential. l Seaweed cookies provide the option for market diversification of seaweed in the form of a healthy biscuit. l The technology is aimed at the global healthy biscuit market, which is valued at 2.2 billion US$ and is expected to grow at an annual rate of 5% between 2019 to 2025. Commercialization and availability l The product has been commercialized to M/s ZCorp. Organic Pvt. Ltd., Palakkad, Kerala, and M/s Zaara Biotech, Thrissur, Kerala. l The company has started marketing the product as organic cookies for promoting digestive health 13. CIFTEQ速 Seaweed Cookies Compiled by: Anuj Kumar, M. D. Hanjabam, C. O. Mohan and George Ninan Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Caulerpa racemosa 16 CIFTEQ速 Seaweed Yoghurt About the product l Sargassum wightii, a brown seaweed, is rich in fucoidan which is a fucose-rich sulphated polysaccharide possessing various physiological properties. It has got potential applications in the formu- lation of functional and nutraceuticals products. l Fucoidan possesses several bioactivities i.e., anti-cancer, anti-thrombotic, anti- virus, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-diabetic and neuroprotective functions.