 Keywords: Barnyard millet, Germplasm, Recombination, Sequencing, Varieties B ARNYARD millet is becoming one of the most important minor millet in the world specifically in India because of its multiple uses like food, feed and fodder. It is scientifically named as Echinochloa sp. which contains two major species Echinochloa esculenta (Japanese barnyard millet) and Echinochloa frumentacea (Indian barnyard millet) cultivated for human consumption and livestock feed. Globally, India is the biggest producer of barnyard millet, both in terms of area (0.146 m ha) and production (0.147 mt) with average productivity of 1034 kg/ha during the last 3 years (IIMR 2018). It is less susceptible to biotic and abiotic stresses and mainly cultivated in marginal lands in fragile soils. Barnyard millet is a good source of protein, carbohydrates, fibre and most notable micronutrients like iron and zinc, and vitamins. Despite of its agronomic and nutritional benefits, this crop has remained as underutilized orphan crop. Recently, after the establishment of ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) and collaborative works with ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resource (NBPGR), New Delhi and International Crops Research Institute for Semi-arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Patancheru, Hyderabad the progress has been achieved in the areas like characterization of large number of germplasm Indian Farming 73 (01): 50-52; January 2023 resources, identification of trait specific accessions, discoveries of genes/QTLs, transcritpome analysis studies, genome sequencing (Japanese barnyard millet) etc. In this article we are highlighting the recent advances in genetic and genomic resources development, and improved technologies in barnyard millet. Recent advances in barnyard millet improvement Echinochloa sp. belongs to the family Poaceae, sub- family Panicoideae, in which 35 related species are identified for their taxa and phylogenetic relationships through morphological, biochemical and molecular markers. Globally, 8000 germplasm accessions were conserved at different centres, viz. Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS), India; Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR), India; National Institute of Agro-biological Sciences (NIAS), Japan and Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research like International Crop Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), India. Core collection comprising of 89 accessions was established from the main set of 736 germplasm lines representing the entire diversity based on phenotypic and genotypic characterization. Three potential and trait specific genetic stocks (easy dehulling, glumeless mutant Indian Farming 51 January 2023 and grain smut disease resistant) were registered with national Gene Banks (NGB) to protect from IPRs and also to facilitate the breeders to use in crop improvement programmes. In India more than 20 improved varieties were released for cultivation in different parts.