) i) Reaction to stresses : 11 a) Yield data in coordinated trials (breeding, agronomy, : pathology, entomology, quality etc) regional/inter regional district trials year- wise (levels of fertilizer application, density of plant population and superiority over local control/standard variety to be indicated (to be attached) b) Yield data from national demonstration/large-scale : demonstrations (to be attached) 12 a) Agency responsible for maintanence of breeder seed : b) Quantity of breeder seed in stock (kg) : Variety A line B line R line Hybrid 13 Specific recommendations, if any, for seed production : (e.g. staggered sowing, planting ratio of parental lines of hybrids in foundation and certified seed production, probable area of seed production) 14 Vivid presentation (field view, close-up of single plant and seed/economic parts) 15 Package of practices along with attainable yield levels 16 Any other pertinent information : Signature of All Contributors Signature of the Head of the Institution (Concluded) 89 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Checklist for Proforma for Submission of Proposal for Identification of Crop Varieties/ Hybrids by Workshops Details/documents Attached Parentage with details on pedigree, including the source from which variety/Inbred/A, B and Yes No R lines of hybrid has been developed Source of material in case of introduction (IC/EC numbers provided by the NBPGR) Yes No Flow chart of details of development of variety/ parental lines of hybrids Yes No Molecular/ DNA profile of variety/hybrid/A, B, R lines of the hybrid vis-à-vis check variety/ line Yes No (details of unique amplicons that distinguish markers (with photographs) Detailed description of hybrid/variety Yes No Detailed description of parental lines of the hybrid Yes No Yield data and other data on diseases, insect-pests, quality, etc. from coordinated trials Yes No Yield data from national demonstrations/large-scale demonstrations Yes No Specific recommendations, if any, for seed production (e.g. staggered sowing, planting ratio Yes No of parental lines of hybrids in foundation and certified seed production, probable area of seed production, etc.) Vivid presentation (field view, close-up of a single plant and seeds) with photographs of the variety) Yes No Package of practices Yes No Proforma signed by all co-authors and the Head of theOrganization Yes No Any other pertinent information Yes No Signature of the Head of the Institution 90 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Table 2. Adaptability to agronomic variables Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Year of No. of Proposed National Zonal Local Latest . Qualifying variety testing trials/ variety check 1 check 2 check 3 released locations check 4 var. 1 var. 2 var.