 ICAR-CIRCOT has developed a miniature ginning machine, which can process the seed cotton at farm level for obtaining the cotton fibre (Lint) and seeds. The village-level carding machine (CIRCOT Mini Card) can be used to make cotton sliver at the farm level. The cotton slivers thus prepared can be further used to make fabric in the cottage industry. ICAR provides regular training to farmers on post-harvest processing of cotton and value addition to biomass and clean cotton-picking programs are organized to create awareness about the package of practices to harvest clean cotton to fetch a better price. The national productivity of jute crop has been doubled and jute crop has been integrated into the multiple cropping sequence (Vision 2025, CRIJAF). Raw jute, which is widely used as a raw material in textile and paper industries, building and automotive industries, and various other uses, is an important driver of national economy (https://farmer.gov.in/cropstaticsjute. aspx). ICAR made significant contributions in the development of high yielding varieties and improved production technologies of cotton and jute crop. 3.3. Towards Localized Food Security Gandhiji always emphasized to “eat local” which in turn would reduce carbon footprint by limiting transportation, directly support farmer’s livelihood, and increase the local economy. It would facilitate the restoration of soil and ecology. He desired that the food production at the village level should be adequate to provide access to quality food for the villagers, and should reduce the reliance on imports from outside. He preferred millet consumption and had Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 138 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR conducted a lot of experiments on this crop and its grains. He regarded it one of the medicinal grains which contain a myriad of beneficial nutrients (Yadav 2012). Green Revolution in India, which led to increase in food production, alleviating hunger and poverty was driven by the introduction of high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat. While the wheat and rice production doubled, the production of indigenous rice varieties and other food crops like millets declined (Nelson et al. 2019). ICAR has pioneered focused research programs on other grains like sorghum, finger, and pearl millet, which would greatly reduce the energy use by up to 12% for cereal production nationally. The water-use can be further reduced by almost 25%, and greenhouse gas emissions would be reduced by up to 13%. The protein availability can be boosted by up to 5% in people’s diets, and iron by up to 49%, by the use of varieties of grains. Further, the switching over to rotation of crops would significantly increase drought tolerance and overall climate resilience of cereals by 13%. Thereby, the losses would be substantially reduced in comparison to the water-dependent rice crops (Bryce 2019). Millets are now called as nutri-cereals.