 Fresh roots of phiriki is taken and juice is prepared. This juice is given orally in emptry stomach @ 10-15 ml once a day for 20 days. Keywords: phiriki, chronic dysentery Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2695 Plant leaves in use to avert damage to food stuffs Many food stuffs, when stored for later use, may get damaged due to infestation and infection with insects and other micro organisms. Certain plants have immense insecticidal and pesticidal properties and also work as lrepellent to the insect pests. Among such plants neem (Azadiractha indica) and tobacco (Nicotiana spp) are very prominent. Leaves of these plants are put to use by blending them with the stored food stuff. This method helps keeping the food material free from Collection by pests. The technique is in use in and around some areas of Jammu. Keywords: neem and tobacco Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu  leaves, insecticidal and pesticidal property, stored food stuff 2696 Preparation of pula (foot wear) by using bizia fibre Pula are foot wear which are traditionally used by many people of Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh, since a long time. Pula are mainly prepared by women from the fibre of the plant bizia (Canvissp). The fibre is collected from the stems of the plants and then thick and thin threads are made. It is done locally through kaidulu and tekli. To make them attractive in the upper portion, cloured thread of goat and sheep wool are also used. Keywords: pula, bizia fibre Dr Onkar Singh Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2698 Use of shabal juice as a medicne for eye disease Shabal is a orchid species and is grown mostly on the rocks. Shabal roots are collected and crushed properly. Then it is boiled in water and the extracted juice is used for treatment of eye disease by the local people of Nichar block of the tribal district of Kinnaur (Himachal Pradesh) since very long time. It is used as an ointment for many eye diseases. Keywords: shabal root juice, eye disease Dr Onkar Singh Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2664 Treatment of piles by using roots of shalu plant The rhizome roots of shalu an orchid, are used for treatment of piles by the people of Phati Khani of Anni tehsil of Kullu district in Himachal Pradesh since very long time. The rhizome roots of the shalu plant are collected and cut in the small pieces. The pieces are then powdered and the powder is called shalu jhalakada. It is eaten with butter for 15 days to 1 month. It is also used in stomach disorder which is also prescribed by local vedu.