The local variety of the farmers was sown in April each year in a plot size of 100 sq metre with 5 replications. The treatements, namely T/1: Famers practice (imbalance use of cow urine and asafoetida extract), T/2:Spraying of Bavistin (1g/litre),T/3: Drenching of Bavistin (1g/litre) and Plantomycin (1g/litre), T/4: Coating of Bavistin and Plantomycin paste and T/5: Drenching of asafoetida and cow urine (10 g of asafoetida in litre of urine) were imposed to study the efficacy against the soft rot of ginger.The assessment made in the investigation revealed that drenching of Bavistin (1g/litre) and plantomycin (1g/litre) in the root zone of zinger (T/3) reduced the wilting of ginger drastically (8.9%) caused by the soft rot and gave the highest yield of 139.8 q/ha with 76.6 q/ha (121.2%) increase in yield over farmers practice. However, drenching of asafoetida and cow urine recorded only 10.3 q/ha (16.3%) increase in yield resulting in 35.9% wilting.The farmers practice showded the maximum wilting (47.2%) and minimum yield (63.2) q/ha) of ginger at Kandhamal district of Orissa (Kandhamal, Orissa). Sahoo and Kanungo (2002) 34 Indegenous practices for vegetable crops It was found in Uttaranchal that wood-ash is used by the farmers on exposed surface of cut potato tubers at the time of planting of tubers. Wood-ash was also applied to check the spread of powdery mildew in cucurbits.An obnoxious weed of the hilly region, Kuri (Lantana camara) was found to be used as support for climbing vines of cucurbitaceous crops.This weed is highly resistant to pest attack. This quality of weed also protects cucurbits from pest attack (Uttaranchal). Joshi et al. (2002) 35 Control of damping off disease of tomato by using leaf extract of Kahithapu Kahithapu (Bougainvillea glabra) leaf extract is used for control of damping of disease in tomato nursery.About 20 ml leaf extract is mixed in 1lt water and seeds are soaked in it for 6 hours (Vattalakundu, Tamil Nadu). Kupusamy (2000) 169 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 36 Disease control in bottle gourd by hing The lower portion of the vine of the bottle gourd has a tendency to rot. A spoonful of 'hing' (asafoetida) powder is put on the rotten portion and a fine cloth bandage is tied around it. This treatment has been in existence for a long time and is mostly used in homestead gardens and with fafourable effects within a week (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Patel (1993i) 37 Control of Kukkad disease in chilli by tobacco extract Kukad is a viral disease of the chilli plant characterized by curling of leaves and dropping of flowers and is very common is winter. Farmers prepare an extract of tobacco leaves and mix it with equal quantities of pearlmillet flower and butter milk. This admixture is sprinkled on the crop. Approximately 30 - 40 kg of the mixture is required for one acre. A week after this treatment, the plants bear new growth.