6 cultivation zones 114 leaf rust resistance of 153 nitrogen use efficiency in 151 Women empowerment 118 Wood apple 54 Wool 96 Work plans signed 146 Yak 78 Yard long bean 55 Zinc-solubilizing microorganisms 66 ❑ Published by Dr. S.K. Singh, Project Director (DKMA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012; Lasertypeset by M/s Xpedite Computer Systems, WZ-276/F1B, Inderpuri, New Delhi-110 012 and Printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028   

Web Url -https://icar.gov.in/    DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 III Foreword The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is nearing nine decades of its service to the nation and as a vibrant organization continues to generate technologies for sustainable development of agriculture. I am pleased to place on record that Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and ICAR is working towards enabling ‘Doubling of Farmers’ Income by 2022’ on a mission mode. We strongly believe that science-led development of agriculture is the basis for transformed Indian agriculture enabling the country to sustain its food grain production. Towards increasing the productivity, production and quality of field and horticultural crops, we have developed 209 new varieties/hybrids with potential for higher yields and enhanced tolerance/resistance to various stresses across different agro-ecological regions of the country. Our landmark varieties such as Pusa Basmati 1121 in rice and HD 2697 in wheat have transformed production and trade scenario both within the country and at international level that today India is amongst the leading exporters of basmati rice. The Council has developed 12 biofortified crop varieties that would help the nation to address the prevalent malnutrition in the country. We prepared and submitted a strategy paper for achieving self-sufficiency in pulses to the Government, followed by establishment of seed hubs across the country have resulted in a big success story during 2016-17. As part of lab-to-land programme, our efforts to reach out to the farmers/villages is gaining momentum through frontline demonstration by KVKs and also village adoption under ‘Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav’ initiative. The Council has constituted State Level Coordination Committees with a mission to doubling farmers’ income that are preparing strategy documents highlighting Science-led Approaches to Double Farmers’ Income in respective states. To enable personalized decision support systems, the Council has developed several digital platforms both in web portal mode as well as mobile apps that help the farmer to integrate scientific inputs in their farming practices. Further, the Council has also established 100 centres for promoting sustainable agriculture through its Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Unnat Bharat Krishi Sikhsa Yojana.