 We also ensure that the list includes only villages that received KVK interventions in 2016–17 but received none in 2014–15, 2015–16, or 2017–18. KVK villages were selected randomly from this list, and non-KVK villages were selected randomly from their respective list. A complete household listing was compiled for each selected village in selecting farming households. After that, we formed four quartiles based on total cul- tivable land. Five farming households then were selected randomly from each quartile. Appendix Table A2 summarizes a sample size by KVK (923 farmers) and non-KVK villages (573 farmers). Among KVK villages, 227 farmers belong to villages where only frontline demonstrations have been implemented, 399 farmers belong to vil- lages where only capacity-building programs have been imple- mented, and 297 farmers belong to villages where both frontline demonstrations and capacity-building programs have been implemented. The household questionnaire (or module) collected information on farmers’ awareness of KVKs and the beneﬁts they received regarding frontier agriculture technologies (frontline demonstra- tions, capacity-building programs, and others). Farmers were quer- ied on production, sales, and cultivation costs and asked to provide detailed household information and demographic characteristics for 2017–18. The module also included information on wheat vari- eties and recall-based information on adoption and dis-adoption patterns of seed varieties from 2014–15, thus enabling us to con- struct a panel dataset from 2014–15 to 2017–18 on the adoption of wheat varieties. The survey followed a ‘‘network within sample” approach to identify network beneﬁciaries, asking each farmer about his or her link to every other person in the sample (Chandrasekhar and Lewis 2011). Ideally, a village census is needed to identify network beneﬁciaries, with all farmers asked to list their network members, a time- and budget-intensive approach in large villages (Van den Broeck and Dercon, 2011). Therefore, we follow a second-best strategy and use a ‘‘network within sample” approach. Although this technique truncates the network and may provide estimates with a downward bias, it nevertheless offers valuable insights into quantifying the extent of network beneﬁciaries and spillover effects of an extensive public program such as KVKs in India. We query farmers about their links to every other person in the sample (Chandrasekhar and Lewis, 2011; Santos and Barrett, 2008). We collected information on farmers’ relationships (friend, neighbor, relative) with each of the other 19 randomly surveyed farmers in the same village, whether farmers discussed agricultural matters, and whether they accepted the advice of others, including advice concerning the adoption of new wheat varieties.