 Other achievements include construction of evaporatively cooled room for on-farm pre-cooling and storage of fruits and vegetables; development of blender-cum-mixer, betel leaf curing chamber, and technology for producing corrugated roofing panel from crop residues and starch-based edible film. In cotton technology, a cotton stalk puller-cum-chipper was developed and an attempt was made to explore the possibility of producing Avivastra wool cotton by adopting short-staple commercial spinning system. Biological control of lac predators, development of lac varnish for wood and hot melt adhesive for packaging industry and preparation of lac wax-based emulsion formulations for extending shelf-life of fruits and vegetables are the highlights of lac technology. Development of power ribboner of improved design and low-cost jute and jute-blended carpet are the significant findings in case of jute technology. Under renewable sources of energy, some of the salient achievements are the development of large-size natural circulation solar dryer; a system for operation of domestic refrigerator powered with solar photovoltaic panels; natural convection updraft type biomass gas stove for rural household cooking; and a horizontal flow floating drum- type biogas plant for anaerobic digestion of fibrous agro- residues. Under irrigation and drainage engineering, an automated testing facility for pumps and drippers was designed and developed at Bhopal. Under Agricultural Human Resource Development, OVERVIEW 7 1,084 students in 10 disciplines of under-graduate programme (UG) and 1,051 in 70 disciplines of post- graduate (PG) programme were given admission, after conducting All-India Competitive Examination, in the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and Deemed Universities (DUs). At PG level all students moved to other universities to reduce inbreeding. The KAU, TNAU and GBPUAT ranked first, second and third, respectively, in receiving Junior Research Fellowships (JRFs) through ICAR entrance test. Three committees were constituted to bring out document on the issues discussed during the Vice-Chancellors’ Conference, i.e. Expectations of SAU, Financial Constraints in SAUs—Ways and Means to Improve Financial Health of SAUs—and Efficient University Governance. Recommendations of Dr Kirti Singh Committee to support the institutions and colleges outside the SAU system were published and sent to all SAUs and private agricultural colleges. The Rural Agricultural Work Experience was made integral component of all degree programmes in agriculture and allied sciences. To upgrade the technical and support service to farmers through agri- clinic and agri-business centres, with the involvement of agriculture graduates, it was envisaged to set up 5,000 such ventures every year on individual or joint/group basis. Special allocations were made to colleges of Home Science and Fishery for infrastructural development. Four SAUs, viz.