 A deep learning approach, “Yield-Spike Seg Net,” has been developed for the yield estimation in the wheat plant using visual images. This approach consists of two consecutive modules: “Spike detection module” and “Yield estimation module.” The spike detection module is implemented using a deep encoder-decoder network for spike segmentation and output of this module is spike area and spike count. In yield estimation module, machine learning models have been developed using artificial neural network and support vector regression for the yield estimation in the wheat plant. The spike segmentation and yield estimation performance reflect that the Yield Spike Seg Net approach is a significant step forward in the domain of high-throughput and nondestructive wheat phenotyping. Nearly balanced treatment incomplete block designs (BTIB): In several experimental situations, the experimenter may be interested to compare a set of new treatments called test treatments with one established treatment called control. Often there may be a nuisance factor that needs to be taken care of during experimentation. Balanced Treatment Incomplete SOCIAL SCIENCE Food Loss Index (FLI) Food Loss Index (FLI) for India and food loss percentage under the project entitled “Study on reviewing the Food Loss Index (FLI) estimates for India was compiled. The assessment report for inclusion of the SDG Indicator 12.3.1 in the National Indicator Framework of India” funded by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), Rome through FAO-India using the FAO methodology and the data generated through three post-harvest losses surveys conducted during 2005-07, 2012-14 and 2020-21 was prepared. The statistics has been calculated using 12 commodities as per procedure of FAO and all the 45 commodities were common to all the three surveys. Stepwise and year wise decrement method has been suggested for imputing the index during intervening years. Moreover, some suggestions of weighting the imported quantities only for storage losses has been suggested. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 146 Block (BTIB) designs are quite popular for comparing test versus a single control treatment. The class of BTIB designs has been extended by introducing nearly BTIB designs. Nearly BTIB designs can act as a useful alternative to BTIB designs when the latter is not available for a given parametric combination. An algorithm is proposed to construct nearly BTIB designs and a list of such designs is also provided in a practically useful parametric range. Two-part structurally incomplete designs: Two- part designs are helpful in selecting the best possible components in Integrated Farming System (IFS). They involve two groups of treatment arranged in incomplete blocks with respect to both groups, and the concurrence of treatment pairs within and between groups is constant. The fusion of two in complete block designs in a systematic manner can yield two-part designs.