 Omit phosphorus application in rice following wheat that received recommended dose of phosphatic fertilizer. Use nitrogen judiciously based on Leaf Colour Chart (LCC). Excessive use of nitrogen fertilizer encourages multiplication of insect pests and diseases hence should be avoided. yy To control Zinc deficiency, apply 60 kg of zinc sulphate heptahydrate (21%) or 40 kg zinc sulphate monohydrate (33%) per hectare at puddling in case previous crop in this field had shown the symptoms of zinc deficiency. Where the deficiency is noticed in the growing crop, apply this quantity of zinc sulphate as soon as possible. Direct Seeded Rice (Unpuddled rice) yy Farmers should adopt direct seeding of rice (DSR) as it saves water and solves the scarcity of labour during rice transplanting season. Farmers need to adopt this technique only in medium to heavy textured soils. Its cultivation is not successful in light textured soils due to severe iron deficiency and lower crop yields. 16 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Sowing should be done in the first fortnight of June and PR 126,PR 114, PR 121, PR 122, PR 127 are suitable varieties. Divide the field into kiyaras (plot) of desirable size after laser land levelling and apply pre-sowing (rauni) irrigation and prepare field when it comes to tar-wattar (good soil moisture) condition and immediately sow the crop with rice seed drill fitted with inclinedplate metering system or Lucky seed drill (for simultaneously sowing and spray of herbicide) by using 20 to 25 kg seed/ha in 20 cm spaced rows. The seed should be placed at 2-3 cm depth. Before sowing, treat rice seed with 3 g Sprint 75 WS (mencozeb + carbendazim) by dissolving in 10-12 ml water per kg seed; make paste of fungicide solution and rub on the seed. yy For controlling weeds, spray2.5 litre per hectare pendimethalin 30 EC in 500 litres of water in moist soil within two days of sowing. It should be followed by 250 ml/ha bispyribac 10 SC if the crop is infested with swank and paddy mothas or 40 g/ha of azimsulfuron 50 DF or 20 g/ha metsulfuron methyl +chlorimuron ethyl 20 WP (Almix) if the crop is infested with paddy mothas including gandiwalamotha and broadleaf weed sat 20-25 days of sowing in 350-400 litres of water. yy Apply 130 kg urea/acre in three equal splits at 4, 6 and 9 weeks aftersowing. Phosphorus and potash should be applied only if the soil test shows deficiency of these nutrients. Skip phosphorus application to DSR if recommended dose of phosphorus had been applied to the preceding wheat crop. yy Apply first irrigation at 21 days after sowing and schedule succeeding irrigations as per monsoon rains. yy Start giving copious irrigations as soon as chlorosis (iron deficiency) appears and give 2 or 3 sprays of one per cent ferrous sulphate solution at weekly intervals (2.5 kg of ferrous sulphate in 250 litres of water per hectare).