 After 410 days, fish attained average body weight/length of 443±45.29 g/35.46±1.16 cm at Kakdwip. Formulated brood stock feed (CP- 39% and fat 15%) was offered @ 5-3%. Pond was fertilized weekly, alternate with PlanktonPlus (30 kg/ha) and mustard oil cake (60 kg/ha) to maintain the plankton population. Comparative gonadal maturation of captive and wild brood stock revealed that females collected from both captive and river were in similar stage of Synthesis and characterization of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) as vaccine delivery vehicle To exploit the adjuvant potential of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN) to thermo stabilize the PPR vaccine virus (PPRV), four types of MSN were synthesized and characterized. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) imaging of these nanoparticles on a model substrate demonstrated random particle assembly forming a dense scaffold with inter-particle spaces. The nanoparticles were FITC labelled and analysed by fluorescent microscopy and flow cytometry. Confocal microscopy studies demonstrated the uptake of FITC- labelled particles in Vero cells. Different concentrations of nanoparticles were tested for in vitro cytotoxicity in Vero cells. The ability of MSN particles for recruiting host cells was studied in laboratory animals. MSNs were evaluated for binding of PPRV and release kinetics was studied. In vitro release of PPRV from MSN was confirmed in Vero cells by visualization of cytopathic effects (CPE) and immunofluorescence assay using PPRV-specific antibodies. Immunization with antigen-loaded MSN particles demonstrated the formation of the antigen-MSN depot with inter- particle spaces for recruitment of antigen-presenting cells leading to enhanced immune responses in mice model. The experiments demonstrated that sera from mice and rabbits immunized with MSN- encapsulated PPRV were able to generate neutralizing antibodies and generated comparatively higher antibody responses in comparison to animals immunized with naked PPRV. reproductive maturity with GSI 13.68±0.04 in riverine and 13.05±0.14 in captive condition, while the captive male (av. body weight 122.33±3.38 g) showed advanced maturation (GSI 2.24±0.025) compared to wild male (238.67±4.67 g) with maturing phase (GSI 0.768± 0.002). Around 80% of the captive brood fish were in different stages of maturity. An automated anaesthetic device was developed for safe handling and performing procedures Characterization of mesoporous silica nanoparticles (MSN). (A) SEM image of hollow mesoporous silica nanoparticles (HMSN), (B) TEM image of HMSN Visualization of uptake of FITC-labelled MSN particles in Vero cells (40× magnification). (A) FITC labelled HMSN, (B) DAPI stained nuclei, (C) Merged image representing the localization of MSN in the cytoplasm of Vero cells Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 176 RCER, FSRCHPR, Ranchi and UBKV, Cooch Behar respectively.