 Preventing Counterfeiting: Blockchain can be used to combat food adulteration by preventing the counterfeiting of products. By recording each step of the supply chain on an immutable ledger, consumers can trust the authenticity of the food they purchase. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 41 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 42 4. Digital Agriculture Digital agriculture encompasses a wide range of technologies and practices aimed at enhancing various aspects of agricultural production. These include precision farming, data- driven decision-making, smart irrigation systems, crop monitoring using drones and satellites, automated machinery, and predictive analytics. By collecting, analyzing, and interpreting vast amounts of data, farmers can gain valuable insights into soil health, crop growth, weather patterns, pest infestations, and market trends, enabling them to make informed decisions and optimize resource allocation. The digitalization of agriculture involves integrating cutting-edge digital technology into the farm production system, including artificial intelligence (AI), blockchain, remote sensing and GIS technology, use of drones and robots, sensors and communication networks. 4.1. Precision Agriculture Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) has defined Precision Agriculture as “a management strategy that gathers processes and analyses temporal, spatial and individual data to support improved resource use efficiency, productivity, quality, profitability and sustainability of agricultural production. Precision agriculture includes precision livestock farming (PLF) and equivalent approaches in aquaculture and agroforestry”. Precision agriculture often employs technologies to automate agricultural operations, improving their diagnosis, decision-making or performing. The goal of precision agriculture is to define a decision support system for whole farm management with the goal of optimizing returns on inputs while preserving resources. Figure below depicts important components of Precision Agriculture- (Source: ScienceDirect7) Figure 31: Precision Agriculture System 7 https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0981942823007556 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 4. Digital Agriculture Digital agriculture encompasses a wide range of technologies and practices aimed at enhancing various aspects of agricultural production. These include precision farming, data- driven decision-making, smart irrigation systems, crop monitoring using drones and satellites, automated machinery, and predictive analytics. By collecting, analyzing, and interpreting vast amounts of data, farmers can gain valuable insights into soil health, crop growth, weather patterns, pest infestations, and market trends, enabling them to make informed decisions and optimize resource allocation.