 (Eastern Uttar Pradesh) Gupta (1993) 583 Cleaning the uterus after abortion in sheep and goats To clean the uterus after an abortion, the following treatment is given: Crushed tender twigs of sipda are mixed with butter-milk and boiled till the solution becomes white. It is then cooled and given to the animal to drink. It is given three to four times for complete cleansing of the uterus in sheep and goats. Sipda is a two to ten (0.5m to 3.0m) feet tall plant with leaves; it grows on hedges and bunds of fields. (Mahesana, Gujarat). Thakor (1994) 282 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 584 Treatment of weaking of teeth Animals are not able to eat if their teeth become loose. One part bark of khatamadi (Pavonia ceratocurpa) and one part bark of ambala (Emblica officinalis) are crushed with two parts root of Saslanu heju. This pounded mixture is given to the animal along with water. Khatamadi and ambala, being trees are found throughout the year, but Saslanu heju is available only during the monsoon season (Bharuch, Gujarat). Chaudhary (1992) 585 Tradional wool combing and spinning In temperate Himalayas, farmers use large sized shearer/scissors for shearing wool from goats and sheep. The sheared wool is combed and made smooth either with a special comber called kangoo or with a special arrow like device called phanani. The combed wool is stored in small bamboo basket (kamoli). These small woolen packs are used for spinning a thread with a special spindle known as taklu. These woollen threads are used for making woollen fabrics like blankets (pattu) long woolen cloth (lahanga/pattee) dark-black woollen cord (dora) and shawls which are generally woven by gaddies on indigenous handlooms (Temperate Himalayas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 586 Reducing food poisoning Small part of donkey’s faeces is suspended in water and given to animal for minimizing the food poisoning caused due to excessive feeding of immature sorghum or leaves of castor (Makan-champa ). Parmar (1992b) 587 Treatment of in grown horn wound As an animal ages, its horn often curls so that it penetrates the head or the lower portion of the horn. Not only is this deformed horn easily broken, but the wound is susceptible to infection. To treat the wound, a few human hairs are added to a paste of nagli (Eleusine coracana- a minor millet) flour and water. This paste is applied and the wound is bandaged until the wound is healed. This practice has existed for at least 15 years. Ravjibhai Vasava recently used it with success (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (1992d) 588 Black pepper and pearl millet flour for disease control in chicken Chicken sometimes suffer from a disease characterized by frothing at the mouth, frequent cackling, restlessness, and reduced food intake. If it is a male chicken the comb (locally Kalgi) becomes dark-red and a spine-like structure appears on the tail.