 The system of identification and release of varieties as well as for the production of nucleus/breeder Preface seed and for on-farm verification trials are very well developed and standardized in crops like wheat and pearl millet. However, in several other crops, the situation is not the same. In some of the projects, for instance, the entries are subjected to specific zonal testings only without exposing them to other potential zones. Very often plot sizes and number of replications do not commensurate with the minimum requirements to properly assess genotypes for their yielding ability. In some cases, the number of testing locations are also not adequate, while in some crops, sufficient information is not generated even on the key components of yield, reaction to major diseases and insect-pests. In some cases no attempts are made to study responses to agronomic variables and adaptation to abiotic stresses. Details of weather parameters, and even occurrence and severity of stresses are not reported. Appropriate morphological descriptors to establish distinct identity of the test material are also not developed. The existing testing system is considered too rigid for variety identification and release with regard to the criterion of a number of years of testing before a strain becomes eligible for consideration for identification, release and notification. Although the AICCIP system is a proven success, there is unanimity that there is much potential to give more mileage by taking into consideration new developments due to globalization of agriculture and trade. Large-scale adoption of new breeding techniques such as marker -aided selection, requires appropriate consideration in varietal testing procedures. Genetically engineered varieties have become a reality in several crops. Their development and introduction necessitate appropriate testing procedures for ensuring bio-safety. The development of export-oriented agricultural produce, including foodgrains, is likely to increase considerably with globalization of economy and trade. Another important development is increasing role of private sector involvement in crop breeding, seed production and supply. This demands for creation of a reliable and a transparent testing and evaluation system. A Committee was constituted by the Council to critically review the existing guidelines and update these by incorporating the present needs. A series of meetings were held by the Committee and suggestions/ comments from Directors/Project Directors/Coordinators were also sought. The draft was circulated among all concerned, and it was discussed under the Chairmanship of Deputy Director General (Crop Science) to bring out this document to its present form. The Committee acknowledges the support rendered by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Dr S. K. Datta, Deputy Director General (Crop Science) consistently facilitated in collection of information and Dr J. S.