 The road ahead Finally, the roadmap for these incubation centres is to integrate various stakeholders – not just the producers/ farmers and the market players, but to also create a cadre of professionals who play an integral part of the entire supply and value chains in agribusinesses. For this, it will be critical to integrate the principles of NEP into the Universities and “catch them young”. Students will need to be provided with skill sets and guiding principles of entrepreneurship right when they step into these academic institutions; there is a great merit in prodding them and assessing their inclination towards own venture pursuit. Towards this, Universities can play a pivotal role in providing them access to technologies already developed by the former, support and facilitate them with research and testing resources, provide them mentorship through technical and business experts, and above all, facilitate the flow of funds to assist in prototyping, proof of concept, market-testing, etc. In short, the spirit of integrating NEP should be to impart necessary education that lies beyond the classrooms and textbooks and “create ecosystems where all stakeholders including industry prosper”. 1Vice Chancellor, Assam Agricultural University, 2CEO, Assam Agricultural University Incubator (NEATEHUB), Jorhat, Assam 785 013 Email: bidyutdeka@yahoo.com has decided to implement IDEA (Internship for Development of Entrepreneurship in Agriculture) program for students enrolled in Post Graduate programme in- lieu of regular thesis research work for few motivated students. Further, AAU has put in place its own Innovation, Startup and Entrepreneurship Policy to enable the faculty members of AAU to collaborate with students, patent their technologies and embark on their own agri-ventures. Such initiatives at university and academic level will slowly but surely fuel the fire in the belly and 48 T he National Policy on Education 2020 has introduced many innovative reforms for improving the teaching learning process and the quality of education while recognizing the fact that education is fundamental for achieving full human potential and for promoting national development. It has laid emphasis on the fact that the world is undergoing rapid changes in the knowledge landscape and global ecosystem necessitating reimagining of Indian Universities in the new paradigm. When we are reimagining Indian Universities, we are in fact reimagining the future of our children and the future of the entire nation. The NEP is a forward looking, innovative, democratic and a student centric policy with a lot of freedom, flexibility and autonomy built in. In particular, the students have been given the freedom of choosing multiple subjects in an academic program, freedom of choosing multiple universities and freedom of speed for completing the program with an opportunity for life long learning.