 Two containers of appropriate size may be earthen, plastic or cement could be used as bio digester for regular decomposition of these NADEP compost: It is a method of aerobic c om p o s t i n g b e c a u s e of aerobic respiration, composting is fast and nutritional status of the compost is better than the ordinary compost. In this method of composting, farm wastes (Cow dung, green/dry grasses, wheat/ paddy straw and weeds) along with good quality farm soils are used. Microbe mediated compost: An effective micro- organism consortium is used for fast decomposition of organic wastes, contains lactic acid and photosynthetic bacteria, yeast, filamentous fungi and actinomycetes, etc. These are aerobic and anaerobic in nature and can exist in acidic and saline soil both. Farm wastes (Cow dung, green/dry grasses, wheat/paddy straw and weeds) can be used for production of microbe mediated compost. Use of crop/organic wastes as mulch Crop residues and organic wastes can effectively be used as mulch in fruit trees as well as line sown crops. Mulching is helpful in weed management, reduces water evaporation, minimizes soil erosion, maintains soil temperature and improves physical, chemical and biological property of the soil. Use of rotavator in rice wheat cropping system After harvesting of paddy as well as wheat, ploughing of field with rotavator breaks crop residues in small pieces and further irrigation of field with Jeevamrita/Amritpani/ Cow pat pit/waste decomposer helps in fast decomposition of organic wastes. Jeevamrit/Amritpani/cow pat pit are the bio-enhancers which can easily be prepared at the farm and used in crop production. It contains fast fermenting and beneficial microbes. In situ decomposition of organic waste improves the soil fertility as well as crop health. Indian Horticulture 92 Containers for decomposition of kitchen and organic wastes Permanent structures for gardening at rooftop materials. These should be placed at the top of terrace for routine decomposition of bio-waste to convert as rich manure. Daily wastes which are generated should be filled in one container after filling (say up to 3/4th), should be drenched with any bio-enhancer such as Jeevamrita / Cow pat pit/ vermi-wash as per convenience for enhancing decomposition of materials. Normally it takes few days for decomposition. The other container should be used for filling. This should be a routine process for regular cleaning of household and availability of enriched compost. Ready compost along with some garden soil from nearby area should be used as filling mixture in any structure or container or structure which can be used for production of daily requirements. One should try to procure seeds or seedlings on their own or try to procure from nearby genuine source for growing as per season.