 Effect of mesenchymal stem cell transplantation on ovarian function and fecundity in goats: To develop infertile rodent models by depleting their follicles and ovarian restoration through the transplantation of allo-genic or auto-genic MSCs, ovarian reserve depletion has been successfully established in rat model. Ovarian morphologic analysis and mating trials were carried out. MSCs attached to the culture flasks sparsely and displayed a fibroblast-like, spindle-shaped morphology during the initial days of incubation. The non- adherent cells were removed on third day after culture, and adherent cells grew as fibroblast- like morphology. Female Rat Mesenchymal Stem Cells at different time and passages. A: day 1, B: day 3, C: day 5, D: day 7, E: passage 1, F: passage 2 (original magnification 10X). Untreated (A), BPA (µM)~2.75 (B), 5.51 (C), 13.79 (D) Histological changes in ovaryafter BPA exposure Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 38 evaluation in lactating Balb-c mice challenged with virulent S. aureus isolate. It was observed that there was significant reduction in the bacterial load per gland in the AMP and antibiotic treated groups as compared to infected glands treated with sterile PBS. Further, there was significant reduction in expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, IL-1, IFN-Y, iNOS, TNF-α and TGF-β) in comparison to mouse infected with bacteria and treated with sterile PBS. The results of SAMAMP-1 treatment of infected mouse mammary gland were comparable with the standard antibiotic treatment group. Further, histopathological analyses showed that S. aureus - induced inflammatory cell infiltration, mammary alveoli thickening and edema were significantly reduced by treatment of AMP and standard antibiotic. Thus, this lead AMP can be a promising molecule for treatment of bacterial mastitis, especially caused by S aureus. Synthetic Endometrium: A novel model to study early embryonic development and uterine health in ruminants: To develop endometrium-like 3-Dimensional cell culture system in buffalo, buffalo genetalia with ovary bearing CL haemorrhagicum were procured from local slaughter house in HBSS. The primary endometrial epithelial and stromal cells culture [2D- EEC/ ESC culture] systems were established separately using double enzymatic digestion method. The confluent cultures of primary stromal and epithelial cells were achieved by days 7-9 and 10-12 of culture, respectively. Eleven set of experiments revealed that purecol (PC) and its combination in different concentrations with Geltrex (GT)/ matrigel, Gelatin (GL) and Maxgel (MX) showed successful growth potential for both type of cells. Maximum stromal cells growth and attainment of confluency was observed at the earliest in PC +GT followed by PC + GT + MX, PC, GT, GL, MX and control. Co-culturing stromal as well as epithelial cells up to day 28 of culture was successful.