 Start-up Entrepreneurial Activities at ICAR Agri-Startup and Entrepreneurship Conclave: Council had organized a two days Agri-Startup and Entrepreneurship Conclave for Unleashing potential in agriculture for young agripreneures (UPAYA) on the World Food Day during 16-17 October, 2018 at NASC Complex, Pusa New Delhi. About 700 participants attended the Conclave which includes 104 ICAR (ABI-Network) nurtured agri- startups /entrepreneurs /licensees from different corners of the country. It had provided a unique platform for bringing together agri-professional, business experts, researchers and Farm Producers Organizations (FPO) in a face to face mode, same time country’s finest mentors, angel investors, and venture capitalists were also interacted in different technical domains. The platform was also equipped with an exhibition of agri-startups / entrepreneurs /licensees on farm machinery, fish gadgets, plant protection methods, post-harvest technologies, and seed and planting material, for sharing of success stories and explored business and marketing linkages, technology and financial tie- ups and partnership opportunities. It had been created the desired awareness and helped to build an entrepreneurial environment particularly in agriculture sector with participation of various stakeholders such as the government, corporate, educational institutions and other who were interested to join hands approach in partnerships, focusing on “sure projects”, or “low hanging fruits”. The primary reason being that in innovation based partnerships or collaborations the end result is not always certain and commercial success is not often assured right in the beginning. Therefore, it is not easy to motivate the industry to participate in the innovation-based technology development as the risk is large and financial returns are not easily foreseeable. Internalize the IPR dimensions, nevertheless, is becoming more and more complex, because of the divided opinion among people who are passionate about the environmental and public good perspective of public sector research in agriculture and others with strong feelings towards much faster realization of the agro- economic value in natural resources. While the debate goes on, steps are being taken by GoI to strike a balance between affordable access and private interest. ICAR intends to closely work with other organizations/departments and as in the past shall adjust the policy frameworks, if need be, to provide the basis for equitable adjudication between the various interests involved in a manner consistent with the ICAR’s primary commitment to public interest. Corresponding author's e-mail: kmnmvs@gmail.com. and together built a better ecosystem for entrepreneurship in agriculture sector. In the line of Start-up India initiative, Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare had released a book entitled as “AgRIM- Agri-Startups: Reflection of ICAR Technologies in Market”.