 The ELISA results depicted a dramatic increase in the phospho-ERK (pERK) levels in all the treatment conditions. But there was no changes in the total-ERK levels with respect to the control recorded. Immunoblotting results corroborated with ELISA and qRT-PCR results. The qRT-PCR, ELISA and FACS analysis indicated that PGN and flagellin can potentially activate the ERK- signalling in kidney cells to induce IgM and IgZ synthesis as compared to Poly I:C (7.8-folds; 13.88- folds) and LPS (1.75-folds, 6.48-folds). Effect of elevated CO2 and temperature on water productivity and nutrient use in soybean-wheat cropping system: Significant positive effect of elevated CO2 and temperature on plant growth parameters, pod attributes and grain yield was observed in soybean-wheat cropping system. Under the recommended dose of fertilizer, above ground biomass at harvest was higher by 31-47% under elevated CO2 and/or elevated temperature conditions as compared to ambient chamber. The difference in the biomass under open field and ambient chamber was not significant. The increase in grain yield over ambient conditions varied from 30% under elevated temperature to 51% and 65% under elevated CO2 and under elevation of both CO2 and temperature, respectively. The seed index as measured through weight of 100 numbers of seeds, was significantly higher under elevated CO2 and/or elevated temperature treatments than the ambient chamber and open field treatments. The study on functional properties of soybean seed indicated a trend of significant reduction in water absorption index and water hydration capacity under elevated CO2, elevated temperature and under elevation of both CO2 and temperature. Eliciting soil microbiome responses of rice for enhanced water and nutrient use efficiency under anticipated climate changes: Elevated carbon dioxide (eCO2) promotes the population of EPS producing Capacity building of farming families Life Skills Awareness Camps were organized at the Lead as well as at the three cooperating centres to identify Peer Support Volunteers (PSVs). Rural youth were sensitized about mental health issues and need for psychological first aid. A total of 1,129 applications received till date and selection of PSVs is underway through a structured interview. Further, for the capacity building of PSVs, training instruments are being developed and tested. A pilot training was held on the modules related to suicidal ideation, recognizing and managing stressors, understanding of depressive ruminations and negative cognitions. On the evaluation front, piloting of baseline survey was started at multiple locations including pockets of suicides with a sample of 80 vulnerable farming households through eight psychological tools (GHQ, Connor-Davidson Resilience Scale, Cognitive Distortions Scale, BDI-II, Rosenberg Self-Esteem Scale, Suicide Behaviours, Questionnaire- Revised, Modified Scale for Suicidal Ideation and Friedman’s Well-being Scale).