 Farmers believe that certain feeds and fodder of this category may cause harm to the animal health hence, they do not prefer to use during normal conditon (Vaghada, Patdi Khapat, Una). Ganeshbhai (1993) 380 Subabul seeds as a food additive Subabul (Acacia spp) seeds added to livestock’s feed, increases milk yields and fat content (Gujarat). Patel (1993g) 245 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 381 Cactus and other xerophytic plants as livestock feed There was a severe drought for three successive years during 1986 that forced people to try many kinds of local resources as livestock feed for their animals. Cactus and other xerophytic plants after collecting were cleaned of thorns, chopped into small pieces pounded slightly, and soaked in water and fed to animals (Vaghada, Patdi Khapat, Una). Ganeshbhai (1993) 382 Grazing of cultivated pea for higher fat content People (mostly Yadav) facilitate the milch animal for grazing in pea crop culivated for the purpose when plants acquire a height of 7-8 inches .They believe that this pratice increases the fat per cent in milk (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 383 Feeding of cattle and buffaloe with locally available feeds and fodder Cattle and buffaloe are fed paddy straw and mixture of rice and wheatbran and mahua, soaked in water. 200-250 g dry mahua and 100-150g bran per animal is fed (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 384 Feeding of horsegram (Dolichus biflorus) for reduction of calving interval in cows A survey conducted in Dhenkanal district of Orrisa (involving 212 farmers of villages adjacent to Dhenkanal and Livestock Inspectors of the district) revealed that in dairy cows feeding of horsegram (Dolichus biflorus) is practised by the farmers since long for improvement of fertility status in general and reduction of calving interval in particular. Horsegram tied in a cloth is soaked in water for germination . The germinated horsegram at the rate of 200 g/day/cow is mixed with 100 g of treacle. This mixture is fed to cows which do not come to heat after 4 months of calving. The feeding continous for three weeks. If the cow does not come to heat after that then this mixture is supplemented with 50 g of mineral mixture. The success rate of treatment was found to be 72% as reported by the farmers . (Dhenkanal, Orissa). Mishra and Dehuri (2002) 385 To initiate feeding of calf during first calving After the first calving, some cows will desist feeding the calf. They are not able to recognize the calf. Such cases are efficiently handled by villagers. About 25-30 leaves of Premna abtusifolia are collected and soaked in about 10-15 litres of buttermilk. Onion, garlic, jeera, turmeric, chilli and salt are added in equal amount after grinding. Next day the calf is separated from the mother for the entire day. Then the whole process of calving is repeated by pushing and pulling the Premna obtusifolia leaves.