 Thus, breeding specifically for popping efficiency is taken up at ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad. Popping sorghum grain changes the starch granules into thin lattices of interconnecting sheets. Popped starch is more digestible in comparison to native starch and exhibits higher susceptibility to in vitro enzymic (pancreatin) digestibility. Significant decrease in carotenoid, moisture content and increase in protein and carbohydrate content was observed upon popping in sorghum. Uses and benefits There are two ways by which the popping in sorghum can reach different strata of society. One is through commercial scale popping on large scale, in which large quantities of seeds are popped in machines. The other one is by popping small quantities of sorghum in the households as and when required in small machines. It can be used as an additional source of income in rural areas, where sorghum pops can be sold in popular places in small quantities. Pop sorghum can be sold for a few hours to generate additional income with low investment. Due to high digestibility and improved access to protein and starch reserves, popped sorghum can be commercially explored for instant food mixes and weaning foods. Sorghum is a rich source of micronutrients and phytochemicals, and its instant popping can be a popular food product made from sorghum due to its easy to prepare and oil free preparation. The availability of sorghum cultivars whose grains exhibit superior popping quality without any pre-treatment should be of significance to food technologists and breeders. Utilization of these popping sorghums in breeding programs aimed at improved popping quality can be rewarding. SUMMARY In central and southern India, popped sorghum is a common traditional snack dish with good commercial potential. It is a major source of carbohydrates and in comparison to raw sorghum grain, has greater starch and in vitro digestibility. Popped sorghum is typically cooked over dry heat. As nutritious as popcorn, sorghum grains that have been popped have a pleasant flavour. Additionally, because it is soft and contains less hulls, popped sorghum is also said to be superior to popped corn. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: visarada@millets.res.in Sorghum pops Indian Farming 96 January 2023 Promising millet production and processing technologies in rainfed areas Rajendra R Chapke* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Many millet production technologies are available with research organizations which need to be evaluated in farmers’ fields for their wider adaptability. For this, an initiative was taken by the ICAR-IIMR, Hyderabad under farmer FIRST project wherein improved practices gave substantially higher yields and net returns compared to existing farmer’s practices especially from de-hulled finger millet and little millet grains which fetched up to 2–5 times more profit.