 The information on natural genetic divergence and stock structure has strong implications for scientific management of the important fishery resource through evolving comprehensive conservation strategies. EUS disease resistance/ susceptibility in fishes: Epizootic ulcerative syndrome (EUS) is a disease of finfish caused by Oomycetes, Aphanomyces invadans. In Hilsa shad, Tenualosa ilisha twelve alpha-2- Macroglobulin (A2M) isoforms were reported through SMRT sequencing. Five putative markers of EUS disease resistance in A2M protein, which were present in MG2 domains, classified fishes into two groups, resistant and susceptible to EUS. Potential markers predicted that T. ilisha be placed in EUS susceptible category. Putative markers reported in A2M protein may serve as molecular marker in diagnosis of EUS disease resistance/ susceptibility in fishes. Genes for muscle growth, lipid synthesis and immune system in Hilsa: Through RNAseq of muscle, identified 53 genes related to muscle growth and genes associated with different pathways, viz. 75 in PI3/AKT, 46 in mTOR, 76 in MAPK signalling, 24 in Janus kinase- signal transducer and activator of transcription, 45 in AMPK and 27 in cGMP pathways. Among genes involved in lipid metabolism, 32 genes were associated with glycerophospholipid metabolism and 4 were involved in fatty acid biosynthesis. There were 58 immune related genes, in which 31 were under innate and 27 under adaptive immunity. Transcriptome profile of Argulus siamensis parasites: For prevention of argulosis in carps, full reference transcriptome sequences were generated separately from male and female parasites. Total full length non chimeric clustered consensus isoforms for female was found to be 84,337 whereas for male it was 209,271. Species specific genes were identified (105 for male and 10 for female). Overall, the information of A. siamensis male and female will help in generating efficient prevention strategies for this parasite. Induction of triploidy in rainbow trout: Production of sterile triploid rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) is the major concern for its production enhancement. Better induction of triploidy was achieved on exposure of green eggs to heat shock treatment at 28°C for 10 min, with up to 80% success, 40–46% hatching rate and 57– 68% survival up to swim-up fry stage. Triploid fry after yolk absorption exhibited three sets of chromosomes (86– 90) and cell size of erythrocytes was 13% bigger. Growth performance of triploids was 9–19% better than the diploids up to fingerlings stage in 90 days. Survival of triploid fingerlings was 48–68%, while that of diploids was 62–72%. ❑ Aquatic genetic information system of India (AqGRISI) An online information system, AqGRISI was developed to provide information on different aspects of native fishes of India. Presently, it covers 3,137 native finfish species belonging to 1,022 genus, 247 families and 47 orders.