 Roots act as diuretic, anti-syphilitic, while sap acts as laxative, diuretic, emmenagogue, antiscorbutic and totally used as tonic and poultice. The active ingredients are sugar yielding alcohol, agavose, saponins, steroids. Parabia et al. (2000) 305 Medicinal importance of groundnut Seed and nut oil of mungphali (Arachis hypogea) are the useful components of the crop. Mainly palmitic acid, oleic acid are present and are nutritious, aperient, emollient and cures tympany and relieves constipation in cattle. Parabia et al. (2000) 234 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 306 Medicinal properties of maharuk/tree of heaven Leaf and stembark of accva , maharukh (Ailanthus excelsa) are used owing to the presence of ailantic acid which is bitter used as tonic, carminative, febrifuge and stembark is expectorant, anthelmentic, antispasmodic and hence used in dyspepsia and bronchitis. Parabia et al. (2000) 307 Medicinal uses of onion Useful parts of onion (Allium cepa) are bulb and seed which contain volatile oil and mucilage. Bulb acts as stimulant, diuretic, expectorant, aphrodisiac, carminative, emmenogogue are used in prolapse of uterus/vagina to control blood cholestrol and also used in inducing animal to heat. Parabia et al. (2000) 308 Medicinal importance of Apium graveolens Root and seed of Apium graveolens are the useful parts. It contains sulphur, poisonous principle, glucocide, apiin, volatile oil, albumen, mucilage and salts. Seed act as stimulant, cordial, tonic, carminative while root acts as alterative, diuretic, emmengogue, lithotriptic and used against colic, bronchitis, asthama, liver and spleen diseases, flatulence and tympany. Parabia et al. (2000) 309 Ethnomedical use of bakla Gum and bark of the bakla, Anogeissus latifolia is useful. Important constituents of the plant are gum and tannin. Poultice of the plant is used against scorpion string/snake bite. Bark is used as astringent and used to cure chronic diarrhoea and liver complaints. Parabia et al. (2000) 310 Medicinal uses of Citrullus colocynthis Bitter principle of indrayani (Citrulluis colocynthis), colocynthin, glucoside, hydrocarbon saponin, root has alpha eleaterin, saponin, tannin and is used as astringent, diuretic, purgative, bitter tonic, anthelmintic,jaundice, ascites, urinary diseases, rheumatism, snake bites, scorpion stings, dysentery, diarrhoea, epilepsy, inducing conception. Parabia et al. (2000) 311 Medicinal use of garlic Useful parts of garlic (Allium Sativum) are bulb, tuber, oil that contains mucilage, volatile oil. Bulb is carminative, diuretic, aphrodisiac, expectorant, stimulant and used in curing cough, fever, rheumatism, to control blood cholestrol and to control ring worm. Parabia et al. (2000) 235 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.