 Developing a seasonality chart or calendar will identify the timing of different seasons for locally available fruit species. The chart can also be used as a guide to explore different underutilized fruits throughout the year. Prospects T HE Eastern Himalayan region of India stretching between 21°50’ and 29°34’ N latitude and 85°34’ and 97°50’ E longitude spreading over an area of 2,620,230 sq km comprises Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. It is a region geographically nestled in one of the most biodiversity rich regions of the world. The region is divinely blessed with diverse agro-climatic conditions, soil physiography and is endowed with wealthy plant genetic resources including several underutilized fruit species. The region is considered an abode and reservoir of numerous wild genetic resources specifically underutilized fruit crops growing wildly in the forest and in almost every homestead and backyard. Underutilized or neglected fruit species are those fruit species which represent an enormous wealth of agro- biodiversity and have great potential for contributing to food security and nutrition, health (nutritional/medicinal), income generation, environmental services and combating the hidden hunger caused by micronutrient deficiencies. These fruit species are seen growing widely in forest and in almost every backyard without much care and attention that are neither grown commercially nor traded widely, lesser known to people, have less demand in the market and are less palatable. Further, whose distribution, cultivation and uses are poorly documented. Underutilized fruits contribute significantly in improving human health by meeting their nutritional need, livelihood, household food security and ecological sustainability. Since yore, indigenous food resources constituted the bedrock of the diversity in traditional and indigenous food systems of communities in the north- eastern region of India and underutilized fruits constituted an integral part of traditional diets and contributed significantly in the livelihood security of several ethnic tribal communities of the region. The ethnic tribal till the present time have excellent knowledge in the use of almost all the fruit tree species found in the forests as a source of food, medicine and timber and they have been using such species since several generations without having anything in written. The information on the period (month) of flowering and fruit availability of underutilized fruit species has not been given much attention and documented since the beginning, as compared to the major fruit species leading to dearth of knowledge and awareness on its time of availability. Therefore, underlining a seasonality chart or calendar will confirm and identify the timing of different seasons for locally available fruit species. The chart can also be used as a guide to explore different underutilized fruits throughout the year.