 271 Contents DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 OVERVIEW 1 03-004-01.p65\1\(28.02.03\06.03.03) 1. 1. 1. 1. 1. Overview Overview Overview Overview Overview Agriculture in our country provides livelihood to about 70% of the population, employs about 65% of the work-force, and contributes about 24% to national Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and nearly 16% to export earnings. The main issues which our agricultural research has to now address relate to production, profitability, efficiency and sustainability while protecting the natural resource base. We have to be adequately prepared to successfully meet the challenges and requirements of globalization, intellectual property rights, sanitary and phytosanitary measures, post-harvest technologies to ensure safe storage and transport of farm produce, processing, value- addition, agri-export, market intelligence and related issues. Need-based reorientation of agricultural research and education is thus our foremost priority. As conservation and optimal use of plant genetic resources is a key requirement for aiming at high production on a sustainable basis, 15,243 accessions of crops and their wild relatives were collected during the year. Twelve exploration missions were specially mounted to collect plant genetic resources from Sardar Sarovar Catchment area to capture genetic resources which may disappear as the development programmes in catchment are proceed. Besides, 27,847 samples of crops from 39 countries (including 79 of transgenic crops) were introduced. During the year, the National Seed Genebank has been enriched with 27,245 accessions. It processed 138,364 crop samples including 91 transgenics for quarantine clearance, and issued 31 phytosanitary certificates for germplasm export. DNA fingerprinting of crop varieties in cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, citrus and banana and neem is gradually moving forward to strengthen variety information database. Under Crop Improvement and Management, 21 varieties and one hybrid in rice, five varieties in wheat, one variety in barley, six hybrids/varieties in maize, three hybrids and one variety in pearl millet, and one variety each of fingermillet and little millet have been released for commercial cultivation in food crops for various agro- ecologies. Also, nine varieties of wheat and one variety of barley have been identified for release. In oilseed crops, four varieties of groundnut, five of Indian mustard, four of soybean, three each of sesame and linseed, and one each of niger and karan rai, and three hybrids of sunflower and one of castor (first hybrid for semi- arid region of Rajasthan) have been released/identified for cultivation. Two varieties each of chickpea, pigeonpea and mungbean, and one of lentil have been identified in pulse crops for commercial cultivation. In commercial crops, one intra-hirsutum and one intra- arboreum hybrid of cotton has been identified for release. Two new species of Corchorus have been recorded in jute crop.