 Techno-scientific activities are energy-hungry and encompass economic, scientific, and social development models practically 132 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR separating human communities from nature. The introduction of processed quality seeds, some genetically modified traits of crops, organic farming and other newer methods of plantation, etc., have provided many farmers higher income and better living conditions than before. The economic state of today’s farmers has grown much better than their ancestors owing to an overall improved state of economy in many sectors. Buying power, distribution channels and consumerism have made the agro-markets more profitable. Gandhiji considered agriculture as the main stay for the upliftment of the entire nation. He also had the firm belief that “the future of India lies in its villages”. To Gandhiji, the practice of agriculture signified a promise of limitless reach. Gandhiji said, “to forget how to dig the earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves”. Gandhiji desired that the workers in village should feel confident of the science inherent to their work, and that the modern scientists should sensitize the villagers about the scientific developments, relevant to them. This has been internalized in the ICAR’s technology demonstrations and implementation with rural institutes like commodity groups and common interest groups in agriculture. This chapter captures the views of Gandhiji on science and technology with special reference to those relevant to agriculture and analyses them in the contemporary context of development. The initiatives of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) towards institutionalizing the Gandhian thoughts and principles in developing Indian agriculture are also highlighted. 2. Gandhiji’s Perspectives on Science and Technology Science and technology have played a significant role in the development of our society. Gandhiji campaigned during his lifetime for an economic development through the promotion of cottage and village industries. But he was not favourably inclined to the setting-up of heavy industries, especially in villages and rural areas. The stalwarts like P.C. Ray reiterated the possibility of general progress through basic education and promotion of traditional industries. Though Gandhiji was not against science and technology per se as being perceived, he had detested their misuse- e.g., destructive weapons, vivisection or machines. He had pointed out that “Modern civilization, far from having done the greatest good to humanity, has forgotten that its greatest achievements are weapons of mass destruction, the awful growth of anarchism, the frightful disputes between capital and labour and the wanton and diabolical cruelty inflicted on innocent, dumb, living animals in the name of science, falsely so-called.