 Mandates and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on groundnut to improve productivity and quality • Provide access to information, knowledge and genetic material to develop suitable varieties and technologies • Coordination of applied research to develop location specific varieties and technologies (AICRP on Groundnut) • Dissemination of technology and capacity building Activities • Pre-Breeding for developing groundnut genotypes having resistance/tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses and quality aspects (high Fe, Zn, Oleic ≥80%, oil >54%, etc.). • Breeding groundnut varieties for high yield (>3000 kg/ha for rainfed and >4000 kg/ha for irrigated) having multiple disease and insect pest resistance and quality traits • Management of abiotic stresses (drought, salinity and temperature) through agronomic, microbial, nutrient and water management practices • Plant nutrition, soil health and biofortification of Fe and Zn in groundnut through fertilizer, agronomic and microbial package in high yielding groundnut cultivars • Understanding important insect pests and diseases (biotic stresses) and their management for maximizing yield. 3. Salient achievements • Developed/released more than 150 varieties of Groundnut with different habit groups along with dissemination of more than 100 crop management technologies (by DGR and AICRP on Groundnut) • Developed exclusively five high yielding groundnut varieties (Girnar 1, Girnar 2, Girnar 3, Girnar 4 and Girnar 5) out of which two (Girnar 4 and Girnar 5) are biofortified with high oleic (>78%) acid. Besides, Raj Mungfali 3, HNG10, AK159, GG7, and Pratap Mungfali 5 were released from segregating materials supplied by DGR only. 13 Crop Science 13 • Developed two highly competitive strains of groundnut rhizobia (IGR6 and IGR40) having yield advantage of upto 18% and marketed through IFFCO, NAFED, etc. • Developed criss-cross method of planting of groundnut having yield advantage of upto 15% • Commercialized two process knowhows for production of enzyme cellulase from groundnut shell and proteases from de-oiled groundnut cakes through microbial processing • Developed transgenic groundnut for imparting tolerance to drought (Dreb, mtlD) and biotic stresses (PBND and PSND: coat protein mediated; Spodoptera: cry1AC mediated) and maintained • Pre- and post- harvest aflatoxin management practices developed and extended to stakeholders. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Five bioformulations viz., NutBoost, NutMagic, NutGrow, DroughtGuard (water saving upto 30%) and SalGuard developed for groundnut cultivation, are ready for commercialization on non-exclusive licensing • Sophisticated instrument for analysis of samples of stakeholders • Contract service and research for private companies and Agri-Business Incubator for startups and entrepreneurs. High yielding and bio-fortified variety released (Girnar-4 and Girnar-5).