 Angiographic studies Angiograms of the fractured limb were obtained at 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 postoperatively. Arteriography was carried out in all the animals under general anaesthesia as described earlier, taking routine aseptic precautions. Their brachial artery of the fractured limb was exteriorized and cannulated using 20 G intravenous canula. The contrast agent containing diatrizoate acid and meglumin (Contrastin 76%, Dabur India Ltd) was injected @ 20 ml per animal rapidly into the brachial artery. The medio- lateral radio graphs were taken immediately after injection using standard radiographic exposure factors. The cannula was removed and the brachial artery was sutured using 6–0 Vicryl (Ethicon). The surgical wound was closed routinely. The arteriograms were evaluated and compared, and the course, number , contour and calibre of the ves sels supplyingthe fractured areato assess the amount of blood supply at the site. Statistical analysis Statistical analysis of the data was carried out  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY using Student’s t test and comparison between the treatments and days was done at 5% level of significance. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Information collected from field study using PRA tools is as follows (i) Number o f persons contacted : 64 (ii) Number of persons knowing about the use of manu infracture healing in animals : 11 (iii) Species of animals in which this technique was generally used: bovine, caprine and ovine; besides two persons also talked about its use in mules as well (in general this technique was used in lighter-weight animals). (iv) Age of animals: All age groups (v) Sex of animals: Both sexes (vi) Fractured body parts commonly treated: Fore and hind limbs; it was also used for tail and horn fractures sporadically. (vii) Type of fractures : Closed and uncomplicated, long bone fractures. Mostly metacarpal, metatarsal, radius- ulna and tibial fractures were subjected to this fracture fixation technique. (viii) Common cause of fractures: The people were inquired about the various possible causes of fractures such as automobile accidents , fall from a height , slipping , jumping, entangling a part of body in crevices etc. All causes were found to be prevalent. (ix) Season or climatic condition at the time of fracture treatment: All seasons. (x) Preliminary treatment adopted before the use of manu and fracture fixation: Some of the people used temporary bandaging or splints and oral feeding of some local medicines. (xi) Time lapse between fracture occurrence and its final fixation: 0–3 days; one person also told about the use of this technique after a few weeks when the other conventional methods of fracture management failed. (xii) The part of plant utilized for treatment: Roots (xiii) Method of application: The roots of manu plant were thoroughly sun-dried and then finely ground and a paste was prepared with any home - available edible oil.