 Carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, chemical residues on the food and the environment, pesticide exposure on workers, over exploitation of soil and water and land resources and unintentional but deleterious impacts on the production ecosystem and wildlife are of concern and needs attention. Food Safety is an issue for the consumer and the governments because the modern food production-transportation-processing- marketing chains expose consumers to chemical residues, additives, microbial pathogens and other such issues of great concern to human health. Traceability, quality inspection and Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 176 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR transparency are important in a food supply chain for safe food supply to the consumers. Gandhiji advocated strongly that the agriculture in India should be organic. He emphasized that every farmer should make efforts to return to the mother earth of what has been used for growing the crop. This implies that continuously extracting the wealth from the soil will deplete its potential to produce crops with the same vigour season after season. Gandhiji also emphasized on appropriate and environment friendly agriculture and encouraged that the resources like the natural fertilizers, farm workers and sources of energy, tools and implements used for agriculture should all be derived locally. Indian agricultural system is at the cross roads with respect to the input supplies to agriculture, the type of inputs to be used and the input use efficiencies. We cannot continue to unscrupulously use the external input resources, external to the farm, for the agricultural production. These external inputs include petrochemical based fertilizers, chemicals and energies from non-renewable sources. This is not because they are beginning to be expensive and non-affordable to small and marginal farmers, but more importantly because their reserves are depleting fast, faster than ever before, and are harmful to environment and our production systems. Furthermore, the huge biomass generated as a result of the farming is either wasted or underutilized. They also cause environmental damage. A typical example of environmental damage due to biomass is the pollution and smog caused because of crop residue burning, particularly in Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh.