 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3614 Ethnic food -Wijung thongba 3615 Ethnic food—bish kachu macher jhol chillies, theiding (sesame seed), thamboee (aquatic plant like lotus), leaf of hawai matar (pea), cabbage and komprek (indigenous wetland plant). These vegetables may be added according to their availability. Vegetables are chopped into small pieces. Roasted and crushed, fermented fish is added with salt and chilli. Chopped vegetables are mixed well with the fish mixture and powder of theiding is added to it. Finely chopped onion and coriander leaves are spread over it. About 80-90% inhabitants of Uripak Vachaspati Leikai (Imphal) are preparing this ethnic food from age-old times. Keywords: shingju, salid, theiding, thamboee, pea, komprek Meitei community of Manipur prepare this ethnic food from wijung (Bambusa oliveriana), onion, dry fish, fermented fish, salt, chilli and coriander. First wijung is washed and cut into small pieces. All the ingredients except wijung are kept in a container and cooked by adding water. Afterwards pieces of wijung are mixed well with the cooked materials by continuous stirring and coriander leaves are sprinkled over the final mixture. Wijung is an aquatic plant, very hardy and nutritive. It is good for the person suffering from digestive troubles. It is an age-old practice and about 85% people consume it. Keywords: wijung thongba, aquatic, digestive trouble, nutritive Small pieces of local colocasia (bish kachu) are cut, boiled in water and paste is made by adding garlic and chillies. This paste is fried in mustard oil by adding many local spices. and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3616 Use of simol and donkalegin tubers as ethnic food materials Marsang 3617 Ethnic food prepared from local fish and green tender leaves of pumpkin or mustard Turmeric powder, salt and fried fish (rui) and also water are added to it. It is cooked till water disappears. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: bish kachu, col ocas ia, fried fish Tribal women of Adi tribe of Pasighat area of district East Siang (Arunachal Pradesh) are efficient in identifying edible tubers among several other species available in forests. They use simol and donkalegin from forest areas and boil them after washing properly. After boiling the skin of tubers is removed and small pieces of tubers are made.