 Roots of kuth or costus (Sausurea lappa) contain alkaloid saussurine and is used for protection of woollen clothes from insect. 75. Sphaeranthus indicus contains pesticidal properties. It contains toxic oils. 76. Strinking roger is toxic and  effective as larvicide and for killing maggots in wounds and is repellent to blofly as it contains an essential oil, tagetes oil. 77. White tephrosia (Tephrosia candied) shows insecticidal properties due to the presence of rotenoids. 2303 Use of mustard in wheat as a trap crop Farmers of all tehsils of Solapur, Ahmednagar and Nasik districts sow mustard as a trap crop in wheat crop. Mustard is having too much foliage, hence the sucking pests are diverted towards mustard crop and wheat is saved from these pests. Keywords: mustard, wheat, foliage, sucking pest Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of neem oil+Nirma mixture to control pests and diseases of grapes Farmers of Pandharpur tehsil of Solapur district spray Bordeaux mixture after pruning the grapevines in October. After this, 3-4 sprayings of mixture of neem oil+Nirma soap is done to control pests and diseases of grapes. Keywords: neem oil, nirma, bordeaux mixture Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of hing kada (asafoetida) to control microbes There is a belief among the farmers of Solapur district that microbes of the field can be controlled by keeping hing kada (asafoetida) in the irrigation channel. Keywords: microbes, irrigation channel, hing Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Growing zendu plant alongwith chilli, brinjal and tomato to control nematodes In some parts of Dhule tehsil of Dhule district of Maharashtra, farmers sow zendu plant alongwith chilli, brinjal and tomato crops in the field simultaneously. Due to zendu plants there is no incidence of nematode. Keywords: zendu, chilli, brinjal, tomato, nematode Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2366 Control of nematode in crops To control nematode in soil, farmers use to apply karanja oil cake @100 kg per acre at the time of ploughing. It helps in controlling the nematode to a great extent. Keywords: nematode, karanja oil cake Shri Nabakishrore Baral Kalapathar, Kantilo, Nayagarh (Orissa) 2303 Control of whitefly by using leaves of Lantana camara Tribal farmers of Nandurbar district of Maharashtra use Lantana camara to control whitefly. About 3 kg leaves of Lantana camara are boiled in 20 litres water till the boiled material is reduced to 5 litres.