in/ G arcinia trees provide spice, fruit, medicine, cooking butter, colour and polishing agents for metallic surfaces such as gold and silver. The fruits of the genus contain p-hydroxycitric acid which has inhibitory effect on lipogenesis and helps in controlling obesity in human beings. Garcinia possesses. anticancer and antioxidant properties or can be used as bio preservatives. Garcinia has assumed great significance in the biological research arena today providing not only traditionally known products but new ones also. The fruits of Garcinia species are used for edible purpose or medicinal purpose. The important species of this genus in India are mangosteen (Garcinia mangosteena), Kokum (Garcinia indica), Malabar tamarind (Garcinia gummigutta), yellow mangosteen (Garcinia xanthochymus), etc. the description of these lines is given here. Mangosteen (Garcinia mangostana) Mangosteen or purple mangosteen is a tropical evergreen tree native of South Eastern Asian countries. It is considered as the finest fruit of the world’ or ‘queen of fruits’ due to exquisite flavour, softness and taste of pulp. It grows mainly in Southeast Asia and tropical South American countries. In India, it was introduced long back but grown in humid tropical areas of Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka. The area is very limited due to orthodox climatic requirement but the demand of fruits is very high and get very high price in market. The Mangosteen is very slow-growing, erect, medium size tree with ovate-oblong, leathery, thick, dark-green leaves. It grows in frost-free regions with equatorial climate up to an altitude of 400–900 m and receiving 180-250 cm rainfall. Deep, well-drained soil with high content of organic matter is suitable for cultivation. There is no recommended variety in India. Jolo, large leaves and fruits of variable size, small leaves and small fruits are important varieties grown in South Eastern Asian counties. It may be propagated by seed and grafting. Traditionally seed propagation is use to multiply plants as seed is parthinocarpic. Planting is done at 6×6 m distance. The seedling tree starts flowering 8 to 10 years of planting whereas grafted plants start flowering after 7-8 years. The tree flowers in March-April and flowers are pink coloured. Leaf eater, leaf miner, fruit borer and leaf blight, Diplodia fruit rot, brown root disease are major pests and diseases of mangosteen. The fruits mature in after 120-128 days of fruit set, mostly in the month of July-August in south India and tree satrts full fruiting after 15 years and a grown up tree gives 40-60 kg/tree fruits. The immature fruits are yellow green and turn dark-purple to red-purple. The fruits have smooth surface and 3.4 to 7.5 cm diameter. The fruit rind is 6 to 10 mm thick, red, purplish-white on the inside. The pulp is snow-white, juicy, soft flesh, very sweet. The flesh is sweet with distinct flavour.