 Every 100 g pearlmillet contains 11.6 g protein, 4.2 g calcium and 8 g iron. Keywords: sajja burva, buttermilk, pearlmillet Korra buvva is a local food prepared from fox-millet in southern Telangana region. One kg of cleaned millet is soaked in water for 30 min. (half an hour) and is added to 1.5 litres of boiling water while it is being cooked. This is good to eat with buttermilk or locally made dal. Every 100 g fox- millet contains 12.3 g protein, 0.031 g calcium and 2.8 g iron. Keywords: korra buvva, dal, buttermilk Korra kichidi is a very healthy food. Seasoned onions is put in oil alongwith ginger and garlic paste, sliced chillies, leafy vegetables and greengram are added to it and fried. Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3592 Preparation of shanaga gudala 3593 Preparation of pindi pulusu 3594 Preparation of shanaga bajjilu 3595 Food from motha tuber during drought Salt and chilli powder are added according to taste. Sufficient water is added and boiled. Then 1 kg foxtail millet is added and cooked. This dish is good to eat with curd. Every 100 g greengram contains 24.5 g protein, 0.075 g calcium and 3.9 g iron. Keywords: korra kichidi, chilli, calcium, protein, iron Shanaga gudala is made by soaking chickpea for 4 hr and then boiling it and then adding salt. Excess water is drained. Keywords: shanaga gudala, chickpea Pindi pulusu is made of chickpea flour. Onion is seasoned, and ginger and garlic paste is added. Some chilli powder and salt are also added. Then tamarind pulp is put into it and sufficient water is added. When it is boiled, some chickpea flour is added and mixed so that it would not form moulds. It is made ready in diluted form. Keywords: pindi pulusu, chickpea, chilli, tamarind Shanaga bajjilu is a snack dish eaten during tea-time. The flour of chickpea is taken, and some salt, chilli powder, ginger and garlic paste alongwith sufficient water are added to it to a level of flow consistency. A few spinach leaves are put in it and fried in oil. The bajjlu can be made with other alternatives like potato slices, big green chillies and other green leaves. Keywords: shanaga bajjilu, spinach, potato slices The local tribes and resources-poor people of many blocks of districts Bhavnagar, Surendernagar and Kheda Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K.