 Collection of paddy straw and storage Presently, the plant buys paddy straw through the vendors / aggregators who bring paddy straw in the form of rectangular bales and dump at the plant site. The cost of such bales is around ` 1,500 to 2,000 per tonne of paddy straw depending on the plant location from the collection point of straw. The farmers get the advantage of cleaning their fields by a third party and making it ready for the next crop without burning. They do not, however, get any financial benefit at present. The team visited paddy straw based power generation plant site as explained above; collected detailed information of the biomass logistics, plant specification, operation of biogas plant, problems associated in functioning of the unit, power generation, Grid supply system, bio-fertilizer disposal/utilization, etc. Storage of paddy straw Baled paddy straw received at plant site is stacked in the premises of the plant campus and also stored in the biomass storage shed. It was found that due to weather changes and long term storage in changing weather 20 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options conditions the straw in the top few layers get damaged. Covering the bales with water proof sheets will prevent the damages due to rain or condensing water particles. Operation of plant The plant comprises of i) Feed preparation unit, ii) Substrate feeding unit, iii) Biogas reactors, iv) Hydrogen sulphide scrubbing unit (Biological Scrubber), v) Power generation and grid feeding unit, vi) Bio-fertilizer preparation unit. A view of paddy straw based biogas power generation unit of M/s Sampurn Agri-Venture Pvt. Ltd. at Fazlika, Punjab. Cost-economics of paddy straw based Bio CNG plant Following are the basic information based on which the economic analysis PAU Model – I biogas plant was done: • The cost calculations are made for a plant which has a paddy straw handling capacity 40 tonnes per day. • Quantity of animal dung required per day of operation is 6 tonnes. • Cost of installation of a biogas plant or Bio-CNG plant is ` 3,000/- lakhs • Total operational life of the plant is 20 years. • Cost of pipe lines for connecting the biogas / bio-CNG with the nearest grid point is ` 20/- lakhs. • Quantity of biogas produced is 12,000 m3 per day (or equivalent of 5,600 kg of bio-CNG per day). 21 Industrial Level Plant for Prodcution of Biogas/Bio-CNG Table 5. Estimation of returns and costs for a bio-CNG plant with a paddy straw handling capacity of 40 tonnes per day Sl. No. Cost Particulars Costs ` Per Year Price Realised 1. Price realized from bio-CNG (cost of bio-CNG at 708.40 ` 46 per kg, for a production of 5,600 kg per day and for 275 days of operation per year) 2. Price realized from bio-CNG (cost of compost at 61.88 5,000 per tonne, for production of 45 tonnes per day and for 275 days of operation per year) A. Total price realized by selling bio-CNG and compost 770.28 Operational Costs 1. Purchase cost of paddy straw per year (@ 40 tonnes 220.