 This will support for the crop modeling, policymakers, government planners, researchers and producers to achieve the sustainable development goals in Indo-Gangetic Plains and similar agro-climatic conditions of south Asia. Keywords: Alternative cropping system, Climate resilient cropping, System productivity I ndia is the vast and diversified country with a total geographical area of 328.7 m ha, out of which~141.3 m ha is net sown area. Production of all food grains increased from 50.8 million tonnes in 1950–1951 to 316.1 million tonnes in 2021–2022 on a country scale. The country produces large diversity of crop at a higher rate than any other country due its diversified climatic conditions. Food grains (rice, wheat, maize, millets, pulses), cash crops (cotton, jute, sugarcane, tobacco, oilseeds), plantation crop (tea, coffee, coconut, rubber) and horticultural crops (fruits, vegetables) are the 4 main groups into which the crops grown in India can be grouped. Cropping systems Order in which crops are grown on a piece of land over a specified period is known as cropping system. By using an effective soil management technique, land productivity can be maintained or Indian Farming 73 (08): 16-19; August 2023 even boosted. Cropping systems continue to be dynamic in both time and space, making it challenging to estimate their distribution over a broad area using conventional production methods. More than 250 double cropping systems are reportedly in use across nation. Thirty significant cropping systems have been identified for irrigated agro-ecosystem based on rationale for spreading crops across the districts in country. Among these, rice-wheat (10.5 m ha), rice-rice (5.9 m ha), and cropping systems based on coarse grains are key contributors to the nation’s food production (10.8 m ha). Together, rice and wheat provide ~65% of total food grains, compared to 40% for rice-wheat Pre-dominant cropping system of India Rice-rice, 4.7 Rice-rice-rice, 0.04 Rice-wheat, 10.5 Rice-maize, 0.53 Maize-wheat, 1.8 Rice-pulses, 3.5 Rice-vegetable, 1.4 Millet-wheat, 2.44 Cotton-wheat, 1.39 Cropping system area (M ha) Rice-rice Rice-rice-rice Rice-wheat Rice-maize Maize-wheat Rice-pulses Rice-vegetable Millet-wheat Cotton-wheat Indian Farming 17 August 2023 system alone. Soil types and climatic factors are taken into the account, when determining cropping systems of given region, which in turn determines entire agro-ecological setting for nourishment and suitability of a crop for cultivation. When choosing a particular cropping system, farmers should be guided by prospective productivity and financial gains. The judgments regarding selection of a specific crop/cropping systems are further narrowed down by several different micro level factors. Identification of efficient cropping systems Sustainability of agriculture is threatened by post-green revolution emergence of some second-generation problems i.e.