 After fermentation, the product should be stored properly and distilled scientifically cutting the head and tail, which contain the harmful compounds. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The PRA study and experimental results suggest that preparation of distilled liquor from different types of fruits is a common practice in the entire tribal district of Kinnaur in Himachal Pradesh. It is a common family drink which people use during festivals or ceremonies, also for medicinal purpose, prayer services etc. Different samples tested during the present investigation reveal that only edible fruits are used, wide fluctuations in alcohol content (17.03% 107.76%) is manifested, which can be examined at two levels, viz. i. Samples extracted using molasses have higher alcohol content than samples extracted without molasses. This is became sugar in molasses gets converted to alcohol, adding to the overall alcohol content. ii. Samples of the first bottle have higher alcohol content than the of the last bottles, indicating that the head is the strongest and the tail is the weakest in alcohol content.  ETHNIC FOOD iii. The combined extraction has the most acceptable level of alcohol. Extraction from the batch containing pure fruit was 11 bottles and that from the batch containing fruit and molasses was 17 bottles. This confirmed that adding molasses also increases the quantity of distillate. All beverages were negative for methyl alcohol content and were safe to drink. Both ester content and volatile acidity are quite high from palatability and maturation points of view. Extraneous matter was found absent, indicating standard hygienic conditions. These results confirm traditional knowledge in that addition of molasses is avoidable as sugar turns into alcohol, thereby increasing the potency of the distillate; raashi, i.e. combined extraction, (sample 4), is most acceptable; moori, i.e. first bottle, is not good for human consumption, especially when molasses has been used, as it will cause intense heart-burn. The results obtained from the study bring into sharp focus the need of standardization of the value addition to create a food product, liquor, using traditional methods.   ETHNIC FOOD Code : 1047 Title of the ITK : Preparation of bhaley Description of the ITK : Bhaley is prepared on special occasions like Diwali and birthday. Bhaley contains certain nutrients like carbohydrates, protein, lipids, minerals and vitamins that provide energy. It is considered as good appetizer and overcome gastric ailments to improve the health, as it is quite hygienic food. Bhaley is prepared from mah (Phaselus mungo). About ½ kg mah is soaked in water overnight. It is ground properly in grinding stones and spices (bhabri, jhau leaves, salt, chilli) are added accordingly, and then mixed properly. Now chapatis or rotis are prepared from it with 1–2" diameter and fried in refined oil/mustard oil or ghee until it turns brownish. After properly frying, it is ready for eating.