 App contents are organised in six major heads namely, shrimp pond preparation, seed selection and stocking, feeding and feed management, soil and water quality management, health management, regulation, food safety and record keeping. The App works as a two-way interactive tool containing both static and dynamic modules. In the active module, the users can post their queries through ‘post a query’ option, and the questions are answered within two working days after consultation with a subject matter specialist. Empowering women in agriculture ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (ICAR-CIWA), a prime research institute, has the mandate of carrying out research exclusively on gender issues in agriculture. The outputs in the form of gender related information, knowledge and model have the potential of benefiting different stakeholders including farm women. Gender sensitization for empowering women in agriculture: The outreach project on “Development and Testing of Institutional Innovations for Empowering Women in Agriculture” primarily focused on gender sensitization of the stakeholders engaged in research, extension and developmental works related to women in agriculture. Workshops covering NGOs, media and institute personnel; and training programs for farm women in jute handicrafts, garden tools, oyster mushroom cultivation and other crops were conducted. Radio programs, voice message services, success stories documentation, development of training modules and checklists etc were used as potential outreach strategies for including gender in institutional programmes and disseminating institutional innovations to the end users. For integrating gender perspectives in agricultural research and extension, Empowerment in Crop Production Index (ECPI) was developed, tested and verified. The factors influencing agri-entrepreneurship developments by rural women were identified by a checklist. Suitable agri-educational modules were developed and workshops conducted involving R&D stakeholders and selected women in the project “Promoting Agricultural Education among Rural Women for Entrepreneurship Development”. Gender Knowledge System Portal: Gender Knowledge System Portal was developed in which data on gender friendly technologies, information and statistics, publications and schemes are being uploaded. It is a single window knowledge system on gender related information, databases, research, technologies, etc. in agriculture for the benefit of policy makers, researchers, development and extension workers, teachers and students. The portal would host different data bases and information capsules generated through studies under the project and compiled from other sources. The portal would provide a platform to the R&D stakeholders working on gender issues and women SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 104 empowerment to share their information and facilitate cross learning among professionals.