 The primary focus was to develop expertise in fish stock assessment, fish biology, modernization of fishing craft and gear, standardization of aquaculture protocols for marine and inland fishes, disease diagnostics and management, fishery habitat monitoring and environment management, post-harvest value addition, market development strategies and so on. To cater to the need for trained manpower in the research institutes, the Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE) was established in 1961, along with forming several Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 169 Fisheries Colleges in State/Central Agricultural Universities over an extended period. Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), established in 1957, focused its research efforts on the development of harvest and post-harvest technology, thereby enabling the country to meet the growing needs of the seafood industry. The major challenges in fish farming were systematically addressed and several breakthroughs in breeding and hatchery development of major finfishes and shellfishes were achieved during the first three decades after independence. The success of induced breeding of carps by hypophysation in 1957 and large-scale farming of Indian major carps in the 1980s revolutionized carp farming in the country. The research focus on aquaculture was intensified with the establishment of independent institutes - Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA), Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture (CIBA) and NRC on Coldwater Fisheries (NRCCWF) in 1987 by reorganizing the research centers of CIFRI. These institutes not only strengthened existing aquaculture technologies, but also developed cutting-edge technologies in the aspects of species diversification, strain improvement, diagnostic tools and control of aquatic diseases, modernization of aquaculture systems, feed for cultured species, and other intensive farming systems. Shrimp farming witnessed unprecedented development during the 1990s owing to the renewed research and extension focus. India’s fish and fish products exports soared at unprecedented rates during the mid-1990s, making the country a major contributor to the global seafood industry. However, the issues of disease incidence started dampening the growth momentum of the sector during the early 2000s. To address these issues, harnessing the advancements in genetics and biotechnology were mooted. The National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources (NBFGR), established in 1983 has played a notable role in the above context, apart from its mandated areas of characterizing and cataloging the diverse genetic resources for sustainable utilization and species diversification. New tools of biotechnology and genetics were developed which were utilized for stock characterization and maneuvering suitable genetic traits for fish improvement.