 Open irrigation channels at 10 m intervals Light soil cover (3-4 cm) over cane setts irrespective of depth of planting. Germination of cane buds is adversely affected if cane setts are covered and put with heavy load of soil particularly in fine textured Clayey soil conditions. There should be sufficient soil moisture (18-20 percent) and good moisture content in cane setts (critical moisture content: 50.3 percent) at the time of planting. Apply FYM at 12.5 t/ha or compost 25 t/ha or filter press mud at 37.5 t/ha before the last ploughing under gardenland conditions. In wetlands this may be applied along the furrows and incorporated well. Fertilizer: 300 kg Nitrogen, 85 kg and 60 kg potash is recommended for sugarcane. Phosphorous and potash is applied before planting and nitrogen is applied in four splits. Sett Treatment Select healthy setts for planting. The setts should be soaked in 100 litres of water dissolved with 50g Carbendazim, 200 ml and prophenophos for 15 minutes. Use of moist hot air treated seed be preferred. Seed Rate: 1,25000 eue buds/ha or 100 q/ha. Seed cane crop must have been adequately manured and fertilized as per recommendation. It has been reported that phosphorous in the internode contribute to the process of early breaking of bud dormancy. The longer the staling the lower the germination, but the germination of stale cane can also be improved by soaking the setts for three hours in water before planting. Seed cane crop of 8-10 months age should be used for planting. Propping: Do double line propping with trash twist at the age of 210 days of the crop. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 328 Ratoon Crop management: Remove the trash from the field. Do not burn it. Follow stubble shaving with sharp spades to a depth of 4 - 6 cm along the ridgesat proper moisture. Work with cooper plough along with sides of the ridges to break the compaction. Control the weeds followed by last nitrogen application. Tie cane plants together to prevent lodging from wind speed. The gaps areas in the ratoon sugarcane crop should be filled within 30 days of stubble shaving. The sprouted cane stubbles taken from the same field is the best material for full establishment. The next best method is gap filling with seedlings raised in polybags. Apply basal dose of organic manure and super phosphate as recommended for plant crop. Fruit Crops Plough the orchard and remove weeds from the orchard Soil working to improve aeration and weed control Protect new young plants from frost. Give light irrigation to new plants to minimize the frost damage. Arrangements should also be made to cover the small non-bearing plants with straw Apply Bordeaux Paste on the trunk up to height of 30 to 45 cm. to avoid frequent incidence of termites and any other fungal diseases.