 Separating and planting bulblet individually aids in the production of flowering-sized bulbs after a year of growth. y Bulbil: Bulbil is found in leaf axils. The bulbil is planted in the beds, flats/frames and provided protection over the winter. Typically, it takes 2-3 years for bulbils to develop and produce robust blooms. In vivo bulblets production through scales March–April 2024 29 Insects and diseases a) Insects Insect Damage Control Aphids Sucks the saps from the younger plants Transmits the viral diseases Foliar spray of metasystox or rogor @ 1.5 ml/ lit water. Thrips Feeds on blooms and petal sheaths Cause the silvering and the whitish streaks Spray Dimethoate @ 2ml per lit. water Cut worms Feeds on the different plant parts and sever the plants at the base Spray of metasystox or rogor @ 1.5 ml/lit water. Mites Feed on the leaf blades under the warm and the shady areas White coloured specks seen on the leaves which later turns to bronze/silver Spray miticides viz. Dicofol @ 1ml /lit water or Omite@ 0.3ml/lit water. b) Diseases Disease & Casual Organism Symptoms Control Root rot complex (Fusarium solani, F. oxysporum, Pythium spp., Rhizoctonia solani, Phytophthora cactorum) Here the infected parts become shrunken, plants then wither and die, but the bulbs remain undamaged. Stem become brown- blackish & week, tends to break the plant. i. Proper drainage should be provided. Dug up and destroy infected plants ii. Spray copper fungicide in early spring. iii. Treat the bulbs before planting with solution of Carbendazim @ 2g/litre water Bulb rot (Fusarium oxysporum var. lilii & Cylindrocarpon destructants) Restricted to the base of scales that are separated from the basal section of the bulbs. The lower leaves arising from infected bulbs turn yellow or purple and prematurely dry out. i. Removal of infected plants ii. Drenching of soil with formalin iii. Drenching of Captan @ 0.2% solution Bacterial soft rot (Erwinia carotovora) Bulbs show a soft and wet decay. Discard infected bulbs Proper drainage Avoid bulb injury during digging from soil exacerbated by high temperatures. Leaf scorch: It takes place during the critical visible bud stage. Initially, the young leaves exhibit a slight inward curl, followed by greenish-yellow to whitish spots on the scorched leaves, a few days later. It occurs when there is an imbalance between water absorption and transpiration, leading to ‘Ca’ deficiency in young leaves. Applying a foliar solution of 1% CaCl2 just before the visible buds become apparent can help reduce leaf scorch. Harvesting: The flower spikes are harvested at a height of 15 cm above the ground level when they begin to show color and just become loosely attached. The residual portion of plant is permit to continue growing so that the development of bulbs can persist in soil. Subsequently, the spikes are sorted based on the number of the flower buds per stem, length of the stem and its firmness.