 This is very different from planting conventional orchards system where new trees are planted as whips and severely pruned to encourage strong growth. During the 1st year of tree training the leader is not cut and after bud break, competing side shoots near leader along with broken or damaged branches are removed. Any feathers lower than 50 cm are also removed. The feathers having diameter more than 50-66% of leader diameter should also be removed. This is very critical as we need to maintain the dominance of the leader. These branches whose diameter is exceeding the diameter of leader should be cut with bevel cut which will encourage the new growth from below the cut. Tying down of feathers below horizontal is the most important aspect of tall spindle. Then the support system is installed at planting and trees are attached to it. Our goal during first year should be to let the leader grow as tall as possible so that it should be reaching top in the 2nd or 3rd year itself. In the initial 1-2 years the trees energy is directed to growth towards the top wire and producing many feathers that will crop early. Vertical axis: This system of training is also similar to tall spindle besides here the branches are maintained just horizontal unlike tall spindle where they are managed below horizontal. This system also relies on high density, dwarfing rootstocks, minimal pruning, limb renewal, and an effective support system. The major disadvantage is that it is a tall system that requires working off the ground. Maintaining sufficient vigour in the bottoms and controlling excess vigour in the tops is a challenge in some varieties. Slender spindle: This system is bit difficult to develop as compared to above discussed systems. After one year of the development of initial basic system the leader is bended and then new branches will develop on that side and at the end of year then the leader will be Variety Rootstock to be used Planting distance Training system Gale Gala, Redlum Gala, Jeromine, Red Velox M 9 (dwarfing rootstock) for standard or semi- spur variety 2.5 × 1.0-1.5 m Tall spindle Red Cap Valtod, Super Chief, Scarlet Spur MM 106 (semi-dwarf) / MM 111(semi-vigorous) for spur bearing variety 3 × 1.5-2 m Tall spindle Bending of branch below horizontal in Tall spindle training system Indian Horticulture 12 bended in opposite direction of first bend and it will also bear branches on alternate side and top canopy will look like S-shape. This system is generally preferred by those growers who wish to work exclusively from the ground level only and are not confident in building the wire support systems. In this system, each tree is supported with a wooden stake 8 feet long and 3 inches in diameter. The tree is pruned to develop a narrow conical shape and excess vigour of the tree top is controlled by annually cutting of 2-year old wood to remove the top most 2 or 3 limbs, which are generally too vigorous.