 Supports agricultural education in the country through its deemed to be Universities and State Agricultural Universities on the pattern of University Grants Commission (UGC) 6. Provides evidence-based techno-economic recommendations to the Government of India for policy formulation for agricultural sector 7. Provides techno-economic and educational support to developing countries for increasing south-south cooperation ICAR 2050 2 ICAR 2050: Focus Areas of Research 1. Genetic potential improvement and value chains of agricultural commodities 2. Agricultural productivity, efficiency and profitability 3. Resilience to climate change, and abiotic and biotic stresses 4. Improve food, nutritional and health security 5. Risk management strategies in agriculture and allied sectors 6. Sustainability of natural resource base of agriculture 7. Valuation of ecosystem services 8. Agricultural markets, policies and institutions 9. Bio-security, especially emerging from cross-border vector-borne diseases 10. New educational and learning system and environments 3 Mechanism for Facilitation International cooperation in DARE-ICAR has been operating through the MoUs/Work Plans signed with various countries/ International Organizations/Foreign Universities and Institutes with DARE as the nodal Department after due clearances from other government of India ministries/departments (Ministry of External Affairs, Ministry of Home Affairs, Ministry of Commerce & Industry and Ministry of Environment, Forests and Climate Change depending on requirement). International cooperation of this kind is generally of bilateral nature wherein the MoUs are signed either between the Government of India (represented by DARE) and the Government of another country (represented by their department handling agriculture), or between the ICAR and another foreign autonomous body/Institute/University. DARE- ICAR also participates in the MoUs/Work Plans signed by the Department of Agriculture Cooperation & Farmers Welfare and Departments of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries, which often play the nodal role. Further, the Ministry of Science and Technology, Govt. of India has several programmes of S&T cooperation with various countries and international organizations in which DARE-ICAR is the participating agency for agricultural research. At Inter- Government level, Joint Commissions/Working Groups constituted by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Commerce do have component of agricultural research in which DARE-ICAR participates directly or through the Department of Agriculture Cooperation & Farmers Welfare and the Departments of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries. DARE provides the governmental linkages for establishing international cooperation in agricultural R&D and education upon the technical recommendation from ICAR.