 60 KUFOS TNJFU Vishakapatinam Chennai Zoological Survey of India in 1943, emphasised the necessity of establishing fisheries institutes in India. His recommendation for the establishment of research institutes in fisheries was included in the "Report of the Fish Sub-Committee of Policy No. 5 on Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries" dated 18 January 1945. The Government of India referred this recommendation to Lt Col. R B Seymour Sewell, on whose recommendation the Central Marine Fisheries Research Station (currently known as the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute) was established. The Central Inland Fisheries Research Station was founded in Barrackpore, West Bengal in 1947, and later changed its name to the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI). The Central Fisheries Technology Research Station was established in Cochin in 1957, and the processing wing was constructed the following year to handle research on handling, preservation, processing, product development, and quality control. The Centre was given institute status in 1961 and became the Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT). CMFRI, CIFRI, and CIFT were transferred from the Ministry of Agriculture to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in 1967, and CIFE in 1979. The Central Institute of Fisheries Education (CIFE), which was founded in 1961 in Versova, Mumbai, was given the status of a Deemed University in 1989. yy Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) Agricultural research and education received substantial funding during Lord Curzon's tenure as Viceroy of India in the first decade of the twentieth century. In 1929, the Royal Commission established the independent Imperial (now Indian) Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). With a non-lapsing fund of ` 5 million, it was tasked with promoting, guiding, and coordinating agricultural research. The ICAR's establishment boosted agricultural research in India. A significant reorganisation was carried out in 1987 with the goal of enhancing and streamlining the research, instruction, extension, and training activities of the fisheries institutes under ICAR. The previous institutes were repositioned throughout this procedure, and the following institutes were founded: yy State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) The ICAR's establishment in 1929, boosted agricultural research in India. However, the ICAR had no administrative control over provincial research institutions. Only 17 agricultural and veterinary colleges were established at the time of independence in 1947 to focus on agricultural training of students, whereas the State Departments of Agriculture and Community Development focused on research and extension. There were no close links between agricultural colleges and research departments to ensure that proven technologies were used to their full potential.