 The photo library has provided visual support to the publications brought out by the DIPA and during the year 1,500 photographs were added to the library. Business Unit Business Unit looks after the advertisement, distribution and marketing of ICAR publications, both priced and unpriced. This unit generates revenue for ICAR by marketing the publications through its large network among farmers, agricultural scientists, research scholars and students. This unit also distributes the important publications like ICAR/DARE Annual Report, ICAR News, ICAR Reporter, ICAR Budget Book and Telephone Directory etc. to Parliament and other dignitaries regularly. During the period under report, it earned a total revenue of Rs 40 lakh approximately from sales and advertisements. Out of this amount, Rs 32 lakh have been received from sale of publications, Rs 6.15 lakh from books published under Revolving Fund and Rs 1.75 lakh from advertisements. It is noteworthy that out of Rs 25 lakh received from ICAR Revolving Fund for publication of books, an amount of Rs 11 lakh has already been refunded to ICAR headquarters. To augment the sales of ICAR publications, vigorous efforts were made by participating in Kisan Melas and organizing Book Exhibitions at a number of places throughout the country. During the year, the Business Unit participated in seven agricultural fairs/exhibitions including India International Trade Fair, New Delhi and Agri-Index, Coimbatore. It has also made tie-up with ICAR institutes and agricultural universities for sale of ICAR publications through Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC). Steps have also been taken to renovate and modernize the Business Section. The publications sale counter, which is functioning at the ground floor of KAB-I, has been renovated and the entire billing system has been computerized. Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC) Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC) is the central source of research information of the Council. It collected and processed information on AP Cess Fund Schemes, Research Projects of ICAR Institutes (RPFs), Indian agricultural periodicals, AICRPs, retired ICAR scientists, crop varieties released by ICAR and National Agricultural Research Database (NARD). ARIC, as the National input centre for AGRIS database of FAO, submitted AGRIS Inputs. SDI and document delivery services were provided to about 200 scientists, research scholars and students. ARIC brought out the biennial publication Directory of Conferences, Seminars, Symposia, Workshops in Agriculture and Allied Sciences and the ICAR Telephone Directory (2002 and 2003). PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 229 Major achievements during 2002-2003 are: National Agricultural Research Database (NARD) The Indian National Agricultural Research Database (NARD) was conceptualized and developed by ARIC as a part of the ICAR-CABI workplan under NATP programme.