 Salient achievements • Feeding of rumen modifier (RM-7, a blend of seven plant parts) to buffalo calves, resulted in 14.5% higher gain in body weight and 14.8% reduction in methane production. • CSSLs are an important pre-breeding resource to discover genes of interest. Swarna/O. nivara: 74 CSSLs from IRGC81848 population and 60 CSSLs from IRGC81832 population, both in BC2F8, were identified. Two major effects, stable QTLs qDM2.1 and qPH1.1were identified. Seven CSSLs showed significantly increased panicle weight, yield and biomass. In F3 of BIL166s/ BIL14s, one major effect QTL yld4.1 and 4 families with significantly higher yield were identified. ICAR National Fellow: ICAR operates National Fellow programme with the twin objective to promote excellence at national level in agricultural research and education and to recognize the meritorious contribution of individual agricultural scientists/teachers and facilitate their research and related activities in agriculture. There are 25 positions of National Fellows across National Agricultural Research and Education System. During the period under report, 22 National Fellows are in position including 8 new National Fellows who joined during 2017-18. Their areas of specialization include Horticulture (3), Animal Science (7), Fishery Science (5), Natural Resource Management (3), Agricultural Engineering (2) and Economics, Statistics and Management (2). Salient achievements • Collagen hydrolysate prepared from shark skin (Sphyrnae mokkaran) was demonstrated to possess hypolipidemic activity in high fat-fed Wistar rats. Fish collagen based composite scaffolds for wound healing and skin tissue engineering applications,chitosan-based gel sol useful for curing calluses and corns and chitosan-based Varieties Developed Brassica juncea cv RLC 3 (first canola mustard variety in India), B. napus cv. GSC 7 and B. carinata cv. PC6 (first determinate Brassica variety in the world) were released and got notified. Cases for obtaining PVR for these varieties were submitted to Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPVFRA), New Delhi. Germplasm Registration Information System (GRIS) The Germplasm Registration Information System (GRIS) was developed to make the entire process of germplasm registration—submission of application, evaluation by experts and decision by Plant Germplasm Registration Committee—a web-based system. The GRIS was launched by DG, ICAR on 2 August 2017. The system is expected to provide genebank managers, breeders and plant researchers with a hands-on-tool for management of germplasm registration process, and to policy makers with a reliable source of information. To register and use GRIS, one can log on to www.nbpgr.ernet.in/ registration. • Total gene expression profile upon infestation by pod borer in a mild resistant (ICC-506EB) and susceptible (JG11) cultivars of chickpea was studied.