40 metric tonnes from which realization was about ` 5246.32 crores. Organic products were exported to USA, European Union, Canada, Great Britain, Switzerland, Turkey, Australia, Ecuador, Korea Republic, Vietnam, Japan, etc. Steps in commercial organic farming Organic conversion: It is the interim period required for establishment of an organic management system and building of soil fertility. The duration of the conversion period depends upon the past use of the land and also the ecological situation. In general, 2-3 years conversion period is required. Organic management: The organic management starts from the conversion period and it includes number of activities. Habitat management: It constitutes plantation on the farm to encourage creation of biodiversity on the farm and construction of structure for on-farm production of manures/compost/ plant protection materials. Choice of crops: All seeds and planting materials should be certified organic. Species and varieties should be adapted to the soil and climatic conditions; these should be resistant to pests and diseases. Use of genetically modified seeds, pollen, transgenic plants or planting materials are not allowed. Soil fertility management: In organic farming, soil fertility management depends on biologically derived nutrients through recycling of on-farm inputs, crop rotation, crop residues, etc. Use of organic manures such as composts, vermicompost, FYM, oil cakes and bio fertilizers (Rhizobium, Azotobacter, Azospirillum, Azolla, AMF, PSB, etc.) as well as green manuring either through in situ growing of leguminous crops (Dhaincha, sun hemp and cowpea) or through ex situ addition of green lopping from Pongamia or Gliricidia trees. Efforts are made to minimize losses of nutrients and maximize the input use efficiency and minimize the accumulation March–April 2023 73 of toxic substances in the soil. Manures containing human excreta are prohibited for use on vegetation for human consumption. All synthetic fertilizers are prohibited. Soil and water conservation practices are integral part of all activities in soil management on organic farms. Weed management: Weed management is one of the most challenging aspects of organic vegetable production, even with rigorous crop rotation. Failure to manage weeds effectively results in reduced crop yield. The critical weed-free period for most of the vegetables is about 4-6 weeks after transplanting (or longer if the crop is direct- seeded). Weed management can be accomplished through mechanical methods, cultural methods, growing cover crops, suppression of weeds through crop competition and mulching. Insect–pest and disease management: Organic insect/ disease management is based on a combination of preventive techniques, cultural practices, natural remedies, botanicals and limited use of permitted chemicals. Use of resistant varieties is the most important. Prevention and sanitation procedures are also important.