 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 29 Prefer to irrigate the fields during daytime to maximize predation of insects by birds. Regularly monitor wheat crop sown in straw managed fields in the month of November- December to identify the problems related to insect pest, disease, or rodent. Use recommended practices for the management of insect pests, diseases, and rodents. Use recommended pre- and post-emergence herbicides for control of weeds in case of crop sown with Super Seeder and only post emergence herbicides for crop sown with Happy Seeder. Incorporation of paddy straw or its retention through Happy Seeder for more than three years helps in increasing the wheat productivity and improves soil health. From fourth year onwards, 20 kg urea can be saved per acre. Rapeseed and Mustard Improved varieties Toria: TL 17 and TL 15 Raya: RCH 1, PHR 126, Giriraj, RLC 3, PBR 357, PBR 97, PBR 91, RLM 619 Gobhi Sarson: PGSH 1707, GSC 7, GSC 6, Hyola PAC 401, GSL 2, GSL 1 African sarson: PC 6 and Taramira: TMLC 2 Time of Sowing: The optimum time of sowing for rapeseed and mustard is given below: Crop Sowing time Toria Whole September Intercropping of Toria and Gobhi Sarson Third week of September Gobhi Sarson 10-30 October Raya and African sarson Mid October to Mid-November Gobhi Sarson and African Sarson by transplanting November to Mid-December Taramira Whole October ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 30 Seed Rate and Method of Sowing When sown as sole crop, 1.5 kg seed per acre is sufficient for rapeseed-mustard. Seed mixed with soil increases the bulk and thus ensures uniform distribution in the field. The depth of sowing should be 4-5 cm. Toria, raya, African sarson and taramira are sown in 30 cm and gobhi sarson in 45 cm apart rows. For sowing of canola gobhi sarson GSC 6 and Hyola PAC 401 during November, reduce row to row spacing to 30 cm. Transplanting of Gobhi Sarson and African Sarson A successful crop of gobhi sarson or African sarson can be raised by transplanting. For higher yield, transplanting should be done in November. Nursery Raising: Sowing of nursery should be undertaken about 60 days for gobhi sarson (GSL 1) and 30 days for canola gobhi sarson and African sarson ahead of the transplanting period. About eight marlas (200 sq. metre) of nursery is sufficient for transplanting one acre. Broadcast uniformly 400 g seed of gobhi sarson or 600 g seed of African sarson. Method of transplanting: After applying pre-sowing irrigation, prepare the field well. Draw furrows 45 cm apart for gobhi sarson and 30 cm apart for African sarson. Place one seedling at 10-15 cm distance. Close the furrows and irrigate the field immediately. Bed planting: Transplanting of gobhi sarson can also be done on raised beds for higher yield (10-15%) and saving (20-25%) of irrigation water. Fertilizer Application: Apply 90 kg urea and 75 kg SSP per acre for Raya, Gobhi sarson and African sarson while 55 kg urea and 50 kg SSP per acre for Toria.