 Irrigation is done using rose can otherwise there is a chance of washing out of seeds and the seedlings are transplanted 25 days after sowing. Manage tomato leaf curl disease (whitefly insect) by Dimethoate 30% EC 660ml/ha or Phosalone @ 625 ml/ha. Cauliflower Seeds are first sown in seedbeds or seedling trays under shade. Healthy seedlings are later transplanted on raised beds after 30-35 days of sowing. Cauliflower may have the trouble of ‘bolting’ (Early flowering, no curd), or ‘Buttoning (small non-edible heads) if conditions are unfavorable. Good seed, proper season, the cool, moist atmosphere around the vegetable is a must. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 302 Radish The land should be prepared to fine tilth and levelled. 15 x 10 cm spacing is normally adopted. Weeding and hoeing can be done as and when necessary. At the second weeding, thinning of densely sown plants should be done. Aphids, flea beetles and mustard saw fly can be controlled by spraying Malathion 50 EC 1 ml/lit twice or thrice at 10 days intervals. White rust can be controlled by spraying Mancozeb 2 g/lit or Copper oxychloride 2 g/lit. Carrot Seeds are sown directly on raised beds or ridged beds. Soil should be loosened about one-and-a-half times the expected length of the carrot. Break the soil fine to avoid any obstruction to root. Edible roots can be harvested in 80-100 days of seed sowing depending on variety. Banana Clearing and removing of all dried hanging leaves of the pseudo stem should be removed. Utilization of inter space of banana orchard by sowing of legume/ green manure crops (green gram/black gram) is beneficial during the month of August to September. If age of the plant is five months or more then spray IIHR banana special for 5 times from five months onwards at one-month interval. Panchagavya of 3% may be sprayed as foliar spray for three times at 3rd, 6th, and 9th months after planting. Bunch feeding of banana by applying of 500 gm fresh cow dung + 7.5g urea +7.5 g SOP (sulphate of potash) dissolved in 100 ml water allow for 15 days is beneficial for uniform fruit size and quality of banana. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 303 Spraying or soil application of Cartap hydrochloride 4G (Boregan SP) is recommended to control major pest of banana. Spraying of Azoxystrobin or Trifloxystrobin is effective against most fungal diseases of banana. Pineapple September to December months is ideal time for pineapple plantation and Queen’ and ‘Kew’ are the two major cultivars are grown in Tripura. Raised bed of planting of pineapple at spacing of 30 cm X 60 cm X 90 cm (6960 nos./kani) or 40 cm X 60 cm X 90 cm (5200 nos./kani) is ideal for South Tripura condition. For better yield plant to plant spacing should be 30-40 cm, row to row spacing should be 60 cm and 90 cm of bed to bed spacing. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 304 For plantation of pineapple, 600 gm sized sucker is ideal in terms of yield and days to flowering.