 ● Linkages have been developed among different departments of Agriculture Education of the University and other organizations for better developmental interaction. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT Agricultural Human Resource Development Project Implementation of the Agricultural Human Resources Development (AHRD) Project with World Bank Credit which assisted India’s drive to modernize its agriculture sector through improved agricultural education system was completed on December 31, 2001. This project was initiated in 1995 with the financial assistance from the World Bank and besides ICAR, it was implemented by the States of Andhra Pradesh, Haryana and Tamil Nadu in their development departments and SAUs. The AHRD Project covers only four universities i.e. CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hissar; Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore; Acharya N. G. Ranga Agricultural University, Hyderabad and Tamil Nadu Veterinary & Animal Sciences University, Chennai, yet it is a matter of great satisfaction that the educational reforms made under the project have spread to non-AHRD Project participating SAUs also. The major initiatives taken under the AHRD project by ICAR include establishment of Accreditation Board and new accreditation procedure for education quality assurance, reducing inbreeding through All-India Competitive Entrance Examination for admission in SAUs, uniformity in UG and PG regulations, major revision of course curriculum at UG and PG levels, introduction of sabbatical leave, development of instructional material, faculty training for improving competence as a teacher, infrastructure development, modernization of laboratories and lecture halls, library strengthening and access to information through internet and delegations, women technological empowerment and bringing global competitiveness. In the project participating States initiatives put in place by the Development Departments included trainers training, establishment of Human Resource Management and Human Resource Development cells, establishment of Human Resource Management and Human Resource Development cells, establishment of Manpower Advisory Council, infrastructure development for trainings and transfer of technology to end users. AHRD Projects-CAD courses organized: 1. Graphic and Multimedia Production at IARI, New Delhi. 2. Computer Aided Interior Designing and Landscaping at Hyderabad 3. CAD - Fashion and Textiles at Lady Irwin College, New Delhi. 4. Graphic and Computer Applications in Food Science and Nutrition Management at College of Home Science, Madurai. Accreditation of Agricultural Universities The Accreditation Board approved the accreditation of four SAUs with their 32 constituent colleges out of 35 colleges.