in 114 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science All India Network Project on White Grubs and Other Soil Arthropods 1. Title of the Project : All India Network Project on White Grubs and other Soil‐ Arthropods 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Y.S. Mathur AINP on White Grub & other Soil Arthropods, Department of Entomology, Agricultural Research Station, Durgapura, Jaipur 302 018. Rajasthan TeleFax No.: 0141‐2548905 Email: suryashm@yahoo.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): • Pheromone from whitegrub female adults of Holotrichia consanguinea was isolated and identified during the last plan period. During the present plan period refinement in the pheromone technique of whitegrub (H. consanguinea) management was done. On campus and off campus training programmes were organized for farmers and extension functionaries to educate them about pheromone technique of whitegrub management. Large‐scale demonstrations/onfarm trials were conducted in several villages covering more than 900 ha. • The pheromone technique of whitegrub management has reduced the pesticidal consumption by more than 60 per cent which ultimately reduced the cost of protection, labour and pesticidal load on the environment. The pest population and the crop damage in campaign area/demonstration villages was reduced by more than 80 per cent and increased the productivity of groundnut crop by more than 4 q/ha • Under taxonomic studies work on identification of whitegrub species is continued at Bangalore centre. During the plan in 2002, 6 species; in 2003, 22 species; in 2004, 23 species and in 2005, 20 species were identified and added to database. Database on whitegrub for the entire country updated with 13435 specimens recorded from 1682 locations; about thirty crops/cropping systems and representing 268 species. The database provided information on present taxon status, distribution and host range of the whitegrubs • In Rajasthan, Himachal Pradesh, Karnataka Uttaranchal and Assam states many species of whditegrubs i.e. Holotrichia consanguinea, H. coriacae, Leucopholis lepidophora, Lepidiota stigma, Leucopholis burmeisteri, L. coneophora, Anomala rufiventris, H. longipennis, H. serrata and H. reynaudi are causing severe damage during 2002‐2006 to crops including groundnut, potato, palm, soyabean, maize, pea, arecanut, pulses, vegetables, apple, peach, pear, plum, millets, upland rice and off season vegetables. To overcome the menace due to this polyphagous scarabid number of new chemicals were tried along with the recommended pesticides (Chlorpyriphos and quinalphos) and among them imidacloprid 200 SL, imidacloprid 70 WS, thiamethoxam 70 WS, fipronil 5 FS as seed dressers and imidacloprid 200 SL, fipronil 5 FS and thiamethoxam 70 & 25 WS as standing crop treatment were found promising. www.icar.org.