 Keywords: milking efficiency, jaggery, gram, fenugreek Shri Bhaity Dutta, Patiogaon Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3362 Use of jaggery and satawar (Asparagus racemosus) to increase milk yield in animals 3363 Use of bamboo (Bambusa spp.) leaves to increase milk yield in animals 3364 Use of satawar (asparagus) to increase milk production in animals 3365 Use of a mixture made from asadiyo and suwadan seeds to increase milk yield in cattle To increase the milk production in animals, people of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment. About 500 g jaggery and 250 g satawar are mixed properly and is given twice daily for 3 days. The milk of animal increases. Keywords: milk, animal, jaggery, satawar (Asparagus racemosus) To increase the milk in animal, farmers of village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use new leaves of bamboo. About 1 kg bamboo leaves are boiled and its paste is given orally twice daily. It increases the milk production in the animal. Keywords: bamboo (Bambusa spp.) leaves, milk production During lactation period, sometimes animals suddenly become dry or stop milk production. The farmers of village Chitrete of district Dungarpur in Rajasthan use this treatment to start milk production in animals. About 250 g green roots of satawar (Asparagus sp.) are crushed and ground properly. It is mixed with 250 ml water, and given daily for 4 days to the animal. Animal again starts milking and milk production is also increased. Keywords: milk production, satawar To increase the milk production in cattle, 200 g asadiyo (Lapidium sativum) seeds and 200 g suwadan (Peucedanum graveolens) seeds are taken, paste is prepared and it is mixed with 1 litre water. The mixture is orally given to the cattle by using bamboo stick. The dose and frequency depend on the type of animal, breed and body weight. This practice is very fruitful and effective up to 60-70% in Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Hira Lai, S/o Shri Nukta Prasad, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Mohan, S/o Shri Gautam Parmar, Chitrete, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) D. Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College o( Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.