 Fertilizer should be applied around the plant but only lightly incorporated into the soil to avoid damaging the developing root system. The required quantity of N and K fertilizer should be divided into three doses. First dose should be applied at onset of rainy season, second in the middle and third at the end of the rainy season. Water stress should be prevented to produce good crop. Harvest and yield The fruit is picked when full grown and still firm but slightly yellow-green. If allowed to soften on the tree, it will fall and crush. It is easily bruised and punctured and must be handled with care. Firm fruits are held a few days at room temperature. When eating ripe, they are soft enough to yield to the slight pressure of one’s thumb. Having reached this stage, the fruit can be held 2 or 3 days longer in a refrigerator. The skin will blacken and become unsightly while the flesh is still unspoiled and usable. Studies of the ripening process in Hawaii have determined that the optimum stage for eating is 5 to 6 days after harvest, at the peak of ethylene production. Thereafter, the flavor is less pronounced and a faint off odor develops. The sour sop is a shy-bearer, the usual crop being 12 to 24 fruits per tree. In Puerto Rico, production of 5 to 8 tonnes per ha is considered a good yield from well-managed orchard. A study of the first crop of 5 year- old tree in Hawaii showed an average of 42.5 kg fruits per tree. Yield was slightly lower during next year. The 3rd year, the average yield was 78 kg per tree. At this rate, the annual crop would be 16 t/ha. In India, though soursop has been introduced long back, it is grown very limited scale in the plantations. The average productivity of soursop in India is about 25-40 kg per tree. A cost and return analysis prepared by the Bureau of plant Industry for guyabano planted at 5 m × 5 m spacing shows a progressive increase in yield starting 4 years after planting with a fruit yield of 4.8 tonnes per hectare and a net profit cost ratio of 47.56% in the seventh year. In the 10th year, net profit cost ratio is At fruit setting stage Fruit March–April 2021 35 about 200% with a projected yield of 11.8 tonnes per hectare. Data obtained from Hawaii, however, disclosed that with 215 trees per hectare fruit yield in the 6th year was 18 tonnes per hectare. Post-harvest handling High temperature can cause premature fruit ripening and fermentation of the fruit. Fruit is harvested when fully mature and firm. The skin colour changes as the fruit approaches maturity. The immature soursop is dark green and shiny and becomes slightly yellowish green at maturity. Sour soup respiration begins to increase within a day after harvest and reaches its peak at the sixth to eighth day. Total soluble solids increase from around 10-16% during the first 3 days of ripening. The major titrable acids are malic and citric acids. After day 5 to 6 titrable acidity, produce a bland flavour and even slight odour.