 Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) January–February 2022 15 Pollination Since tomato is a self-pollinated crop having bisexual flower, therefore normal flowering and fruiting takes place in sunny weather, however for better fruit setting in foggy or cloudy weather, electric vibrators or air blowers or manual shaking can be used for effective pollination during 10 to 11 am and 2 to 3 pm in the day. Harvesting Harvesting starts 80-85 days after transplanting and depends upon purpose for which they are harvested and distance over which they are to be transported. Tomato is harvested at mature green stage for long distance transportation. For short distance transportation, fruits are harvested at pink stage and for processing, fully ripe red colour tomato should be harvested. Average yield Yield depends on climatic factor and cultural practices. On an average, it gives fruit yield around 90- 100 q/1000 m2 area of polyhouse. Plant protection The warm humid condition and availability of abundant food under protected condition provide an excellent stable environment for pest development. Sanitation, soil solarization, mulching and fumigation are done to manage pest in protected condition. Major pest of tomato under polyhouse are whiteflies, mites and nematodes, which come inside with the workers due to frequent entry in the polyhouse. The polythene used as cladding material should have 200 micron thickness and UV stabilized. Similarly, insect proof net should be of 40 mesh. Building a screen foyer to create a double door entry partially solve the problem of wind career insects. Our major emphasis should be on prevention of entry of pest inside the protected structure. The seedling should be raised in protected environment for transplanting. The lower or damaged leaves should be removed to make ground clear for proper ventilation and also to avoid spread of pest. For whiteflies, aphids and leaf miner adults, yellow sticky cards (8 “× 12”) should we placed @ 5 card / 100 sq. m. area for control of pests in protected environment. Hang the yellow sticky cards /traps in the crop with the help of string about 4” to 6 “ above the plant canopy. As the crop grows, card can be moved up. The card is changed when more than 60 to 70% of the area is covered by trapped insect. For effective management of pest and disease, integrated pest management (IPM) strategies should be followed. If required, Dicofol @ 2 ml per litre of water should be applied to control mites and trizophos @1 ml /3 litres of water to control whiteflies. For fungal diseases, mixture of 1 g carbendazim and 1 g mancozeb per litre water solution can be applied. Market value Pusa Golden Cherry Tomato-2 is the first indigenously developed golden yellow cherry tomato variety which is suitable for low cost protected cultivation. It looks very fascinating and appealing. Its unique selling point is that this cherry tomato variety is sweet and rich in nutrients, antioxidants, vitamin A and C.