 Tinospora cordifolia Tinospora crispa Tinospora sinensis Total ion chromatogram using LC-HRMS Analysis of market place samples for its authenticity Authentic Adulterated Identification of biomarkers Development of chemometric model Extraction with methanol:water(8:2) Dark coloured crude extract Colourless clear solution LC-MS/MS analysis for aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone, deoxynivalenol, T-2 and HT-2 toxin • LOQ (µg/kg): 0.5-20 (LC-FLD) and 1-20 (LC-MS/MS) • Recovery (%): 71-110 • Precision (RSD) (%): <10 LC-FLD analysis for aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, G2), ochratoxin A, zearalenone Cleanup with multi-mycotoxin immunoaffinity column (IAC) Indian medicinal plant matrices Giloy (Tinospora cordifolia) Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) Safe musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum) Satavari (Asparagus racemosus) Tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) Indian Horticulture 10 SUMMARY The MAP sector is facing several challenges. Since, diversity of bioactive chemicals in MAP is vast and remains untapped for its potential use as human, animal and plant health products, there is a need to accelerate efforts for conservation of species and habitats, and development of technologies from production to finished products for sustainable supply of quality raw drugs. Current and upcoming improved research capabilities undertaken by ICAR-DMAPR provide unique opportunities for enhancing and fostering new uses of plants for human health. The seamless merging of exploratory and translational research with advances in genomics, bioinformatics, combinatorial chemistry, smart and targeted delivery systems, and innovative formulations will accelerate the pipeline for new plants resilient to climate change and drugs produced from it for human health and well-being. The Directorate is committed to move from galenical to genomical era with the advancement in agricultural and basic sciences. Traditional knowledge supplemented with innovation and product development under GAP, GLP, GMP and QA/QC will be the core principles of the Directorate in achieving the delivery of highest quality botanical products to the consumers. In this sector, involvement of private organizations is negligible and the stakeholders are mainly looking forward to the ICAR-SAU system for the technology generation to fulfill their aspiration. The ICAR-DMAPR will develop strategies in a participatory mode with the industries and other organizations by introducing a culture of responsibility, accountability and integrity to respond to the demand of every stakeholder and uplifting the status through MAP sector. For further Information, please write to: Dr Manish Das (Director), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: director.dmapr@icar.gov.in properly processed and packaged. All powders can be used as immune booster as directed by the physician.