 Thereby, to understand the factors driving adoption of SAPs, we conducted a ﬁeld survey of 400 farmers across Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra, India. We further used structural equation modeling to model the relationship between SAPs and its driving factors i.e., intrinsic motivation and institutional factors. Findings show that perceived usefulness, easiness and compatibility are strong motivation in implementing sustainable agriculture practices by farmers. These factors need to be inculcated among farmers for improving their adoption of SAPs. The subsidy provided on seeds, fertilizers, and water leads to overutilization of these resources, which itself is an unsus- tainable practice. Only incentives and extension services showed a statistically signiﬁcant and positive relation- ship with the adoption of SAPs. Findings can help policymakers in designing targeted interventions for farmers and agriculture sector in India. 1. Introduction The global agricultural food system is encountering unprecedented disruptions in recent times, largely attributable to climate change (Liu et al., 2023). These disruptions frequently bring about uncertainty in production and pose signiﬁcant threats to the yield and welfare of farmers, particularly small and marginal farming community in Indian subcontinent, who heavily rely on agriculture for their livelihoods. For instance, the extreme events manifesting in droughts along with dimin- ished and erratic rainfall patterns, can detrimentally affect crop pro- duction during critical productive and vegetative stages, resulting in complete harvest failure or yield reduction (Swami et al., 2018). It may lead to serious implications for both food security and farmers’ well-being. Considering these challenges, it is imperative for farmers to adopt innovative solutions that can enhance productivity while mitigating environmental damage. Production via sustainable means is one of the solutions to overcome these challenges (FAO, 2019). In light of these unprecedented challenges, policymakers and development agencies have advocated for interventions focused on promoting, spreading, and implementing sustainable agricultural practices (SAPs) across globe and India. Sustainable agricultural practices ensure high nutritional value, efﬁcient use of local resources i.e., land, water, and air, fertility management, and pest control (Forster et al., 2013). Further, current and emerging ethics, lifestyle, and nutritional requirements are driving a majority of the upper and middle-income population towards food produced using organic means i.e., without using any chemical fertilizers and pesticides (Wiggins and Nandwani, 2020). These factors warrant the immediate attention towards adoption of SAPs by farming community in India and worldwide. European Commission (2018) considered crop rotation, conservation * Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: dswami@iitk.ac.in (D. Swami), dp@hss.iitb.ac.in (D. Parthasarathy).