 A planting method of crops with ridges and furrows which helps water sensitive crops in adapting to high intensity rains by draining the excess water through furrows and under water scarcity situations help in irrigating the crop with limited water ultimately conserves all available natural resources. Way forward Several climate-smart agriculture (CSA) practices have been developed, Raised bed potato + maize intercropping Raised bed planting of maize Indian Farming 26 February 2024 improved upon, and tested by various research organizations and farmers to respond to the challenges of climate change. The perceptions of climate vulnerability and reactions to climate resilient practices, however, differ with the bio-physical and socio-economic diversity of farm households because of knowledge gaps and fragmented information provided to extension agents, policy planners, and farmers. The lack of biophysical and socio-economic knowledge integration in technology targeting prevents a wide range of farmers, particularly underrepresented and female farmers, from adopting it widely. A “one-stop-shop” for extension agents and planners to assist them in focusing portfolios of CRA practices under diversity of farming practices for improved adaptive capacity of farming community, ensuring food security while minimizing agriculture’s environmental footprints is provided by raised bed planting technique on key CRA practices in intensive cereal based systems. *Corresponding author email: raghubar.bhu@gmail.com fao.org/world-pulses-day Is the result of eating too little, too much or eating an unbalanced diet that does not contain the right quantity and quality of nutrients to be healthy. NUTRITIONAL BENEFITS OF PULSES Low glycaemic index, low fat & high in ﬁbre Increases satiety and helps to stabilize blood sugar and insulin levels, making them suitable for people with diabetes and ideal for weight management. Women at reproductive age, when combined with Vitamin C, pulses’ high iron content makes them a potent food for replenishing iron stores. Coeliac patients, pulses are gluten-free. Vegetarians and vegans, to ensure adequate intakes of protein, minerals and vitamins. Malnutrition When other foods are combined with pulses, the nutritional value of pulses is further enhanced or lowered. The role of pulses Pulses + Grains The overall protein quality is improved. MANY CAN BENEFIT FROM EATING PULSES THE MANY HEALTH BENEFITS OF PULSES GETTING THE MOST FROM YOUR PULSES High in dietary ﬁbre May reduce the risks of coronary heart disease. Source of vitamins, such as folate Reduces the risk of neural tube defects (NTDs) like spina biﬁda in newborn babies. Rich in phytochemicals and antioxidants May contain anti-cancer properties. Presence of Phytoestrogens May prevent cognitive decline and reduce menopausal symptoms. Pulses + Vitamin C Another way of increasing the body’s ability to absorb iron (lemon juice on lentil curry for example).