 Decentralized and planned planting material production should be undertaken in NER with focus on black pepper, ginger, turmeric and large cardamom in the first phase. Validation, refinement and scaling up of plant propagation techniques suited for the region also need to be undertaken. Establish an agency for comprehensive resource mapping in agriculture: Mapping various resources using spatial/digital mapping techniques can enhance the efficiency of planning for the region. Profiling of underutilized crops, real time data on area under various spice crops, watershed regions, soil characteristics, rainfall and other parameters is important for developing comprehensive production plans and market support activities including price support. A dedicated agency, without any conflict of interest needs to be entrusted with this responsibility. Focus on Market-led crop promotion: The NER is home to several niche spice commodities which have considerable market potential. The market demand should form the basis of crop promotion and planned development of production clusters. The production clusters should be linked to specific value chains, ensuring market access and fair prices for the primary producers. Promote heirloom varieties of NER through branding and marketing: While stressing the importance of varietal replacement, it is also important to leverage the traditional varieties of spices cultivated in NER, especially those varieties with unique traits. These heirloom varieties are a part of the rich tradition of the region. They also have a commercial value in niche markets, which can be explored through suitable branding and marketing strategies. Facilitate Geographic Indication (GI) for potential candidate spice crops: There are several spice crop commodities with potential for GI registration. The GI registration is one way to create a market demand for the produce and to create awareness about the unique qualities and exclusiveness of some of the spices. At present five spices from the NER have obtained GI certification. These include Naga mircha (chilli), Mizo chilli, Sikkim large cardamom, Assam Karbi Anglong ginger and Lakadong turmeric. Along with the registration of the GI’s, the producer registration has to be facilitated so that the primary producers in the region can use the GI tag for marketing. Establish efficient inter-institutional linkage among agricultural R&D institutions: The strong institutional canvas of the region can nurture the development initiatives only when efficient and functional networks are established among them. This would need a proactive approach from various institutions to identify critical problems, develop measurable indicators for baseline and target scenarios and work in time-bound manner to address the identified problems.