6 FG5 - Data Management and Data Analytics The data analytics and data management group will be responsible to keep an eye of emerging technologies of ICT which can be leveraged in agriculture sector. This group will also integrate various data sources, generate scenario using OLAP, perform analytics, data modelling and visualization of data through exploration. 5.6.1 Roles and Responsibilities: yy Discovery, analysis, adoption and implementation of emerging technologies in the organization and institutes. Kisan-Sarathi Portal 17 ICT-Roadmap yy Introducing and implementing an innovative idea / project to meet stakeholders’ requirement. yy Bringing perceptible improvement in processes or systems through analytics. yy Preparedness / performance / operations continuity in emergent situations like disaster. SG1 - Database Management and Administration yy Database design and management. yy Database backup and restore. yy Query management and maintenance. SG2 - Data Integration yy Standards for data integration. yy Interoperability for data exchange. yy Cross domain integration and analysis. yy Scenario Building. SG3 - Data Warehousing and visualization yy Schema design. yy Design and Development of ETL tools. yy Design and development of dashboards. yy Agricultural Intelligence. SG4 - Statistical Computing and Data Science yy Statistical Computing. yy Machine Learning and AI. yy Big Data Analytics. yy Cloud Computing. yy Internet of Things (IoTs). yy Modelling and Simulation. 18 ICT-Roadmap A Standing Committee of ICT and Emerging IT Technologies in ICAR, New Delhi will be created under ICAR By Laws. This will be apex committee which be responsible for formulations of ICT policies, roadmap and provide directive to align / re-adjust IT research and development as per requirements of agricultural research priorities along with development of management, monitoring and evaluation system of agriculture research in ICAR to make it more relevant, effective, transparent and accountable in line of national priorities. The objectives of this committee will be: yy To provide policies, roadmap and directives for applications of ICT and emerging / disruptive IT technologies in ICAR. yy To provide directive to align / re-adjust IT research / tools / software / systems with agricultural research priorities to make it more relevant and effective in line of national priorities. yy To monitor implementation of ICT / IT services, tools, software and systems for management, monitoring and evaluation of agriculture research in ICAR to make it transparent and accountable. Implementation, Management and Monitoring 6 19 ICT-Roadmap 6.1 Standing Committee Chairman: Director General (DG), ICAR, New Delhi. Members: yy Secretary, ICAR. yy Three Deputy Director Generals of ICAR nominated by DG ICAR, New Delhi with term period of three years. yy Two Directors of other ICAR Institutes on rotation basis with term period of two years.