2 cm) with average phytoplankton production 145.0 mgC/m3/hr in the selected canals. Soil quality is an important factor in aquaculture productivity as it maintains the bottom stability. Soil texture of the Sundarbans canal is sandy-loam (67.33%). Soil pH was alkaline in nature. Organic carbon acts as source of energy for microbes that release nutrients through biochemical processes. It was low to medium (0.38-0.60%), which indicated there was no organic matter accumulation at the bottom of the canals. In general, soils under brackish water contain good amount of available phosphorous which is beneficial to the growth of fish food organisms. Accumulation of good quantity of available nitrogen and phosphorus in canal soils are considered to be productive environment. Biotic communities The assemblage of biotic Fig. 2. Field visit of trainees/ fishers to ICAR-CIFRI experimental site, Bherua Canal, Shivpur Indian Farming November 2020 13 sophore, Pethia ticto, Parambassis ranga, Chanda nama, Trichogaster spp., Anabas testudineus, Macrognathus pancalus, Glossogobius giuris, Channa punctata, C. marulius, Salmophasia bacaila, Notopterus notopterus, Mystus gulio, Mystus spp. Chelon parsia, C. tade were the major catch. Penaied and non-penaied prawns also contributed a good amount of share (<10.0%) to the total fish catch. Canal fisheries development in Sundarbans A degree of management stocks to be required to maintain a more productive sustainable fishery. With this view, since 2017, ICAR-CIFRI associated in staggered stocking of Indian major carps in various fresh water canals of (Bali and Gosaba block) Sundarbans with local village development team in a participatory approach. Need-based capacity building programmes are being organized in selected areas to promote canal fisheries as a livelihood options. Interventions are made by simply release of Indian major carp fingerlings in 6 canals of Sundarabans (Bali and Kalitala area) where fish production was obtained up to the tune of 800 kg/ha/year of table sized fish without supplementary feeding. Fish production can further be increased by following proper management strategies. Stocking of right size fish seed at right time and maintaining of water depth/ volume are the two major crucial factors for the fish production/ enhancement in these canals. Recently, ICAR-CIFRI has initiated trial in ‘net partition systems’ for ‘carp polyculture’ in selected freshwater canals of Sundarbans (Bherua and Bishalakhi canal) where stocked IMCs are resulting good growth (ongoing). It was reported that after 6 months of culture period, the maximum size recorded for catla, rohu and mrigal was 1.2 kg., 1.0 kg and 0.80 kg respectively; which may encourage the local community to culture fish in canals. Experiment on culture practices with diversified fish species is urged to do on these canals and perennial irrigation canals in particular existed in various states.