5 m apart with spacing of 60 cm between the plants. Generally 2-3 seeds are sown in a hill at 2.5 to 3.0 cm depth. The channels should be kept weed- free by frequent h a n d w e e d i n g , hoeing and light earthing up along with application of fertilizers. Irrigation T h e c r o p c a n n o t t o l e r a t e drought or water stagnation. Irrigate the channels two days before dibbling the seeds. Frequent irrigation at 3-5 days interval especially at flowering stage and at alternate days Pusa Hybrid-4: First gynoecious based high yielding hybrid of bitter gourd for commercial cultivation Bitter gourd is an economically important multipurpose vegetable and highly valuable for its nutritional contents like carbohydrate, proteins, vitamins, minerals (mainly high concentrations of ascorbic acid and iron) and numerous medicinal uses including treatment for diabetes and also possess anti-microbial, anti-oxidant, and anti-viral activities. Pusa Hybrid-4, the first gynoecious based early and high yielding hybrid, has been released and recommended by the Central Sub- Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for Horticultural Crops for cultivation in National Capital Region of Delhi including Delhi and its adjoining areas of Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Fruits of Pusa Hybrid-4 Indian Horticulture 4 during fruiting is necessary. Regularly shallow inter- cultivation is done after 4-5 days of irrigation to remove weeds and to facilitate soil aeration for proper root development. Manures and fertilizer management About 20-25 t/ha of farmyard manure, 70 kg N, 40 kg P2O5 and 30 kg K2O/ha is sufficient for 1 hectare of land. The farmyard manure should be mixed in soil at the time of field preparation. Apply 1/3rd N and full dose of P and half dose of K just before sowing. The additional dose of N (Urea 40 kg), P and K can be applied in several split doses (5-6) at fortnightly intervals. Since bitter gourd is harvested frequently, fertilizer also should be applied in several split doses. Plant protection Sulphur fungicides are cheaper to use for powdery mildew control. Wettable sulphur has been used for many years for powdery mildew control. Myclobutanil, tebuconazole, and chlorothalonil, are registered for use on bitter melon for powdery mildew disease. Chlorothalonil can also be used for gummy stem blight. Fusarium wilt can be managed by long crop rotations of 4–5 years or more with non-host crops. Drenching root zone with Carbendazim 12% + Mancozeb 63% WP is also effective in management of this disease. Downy mildew can be managed by spraying Ridomil @ 2g/litre of water. Plants affected with complex viruses should be uprooted in the early stages as well as spraying with acetamiprid 20% SP @ 100 g/ha for controlling the vectors like aphid and white fly.