org Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 30 December 2023 Optimizing reproductive efficiency to improve productivity in buffaloes Amala Jackson1, Neeraj Srivastava1* and Shashikant Gupta1 1ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh 243 122 Optimizing reproductive efficiency involves managing reproductive traits to achieve the goal of getting calves at regular intervals as decided by the management, and increased milk yield. In fact, losses from impaired reproductive efficiency or reproductive failures constitute the greatest cause of losses in productivity of calves and milk yield in buffaloes. Certain reproduction targets, interference levels, and management practices and protocols, useful to buffalo farmers for optimizing reproductive efficiency are discussed here briefly to improve productivity under Indian agrarian conditions. Also, importance of regular and accurate recording of reproductive events is emphasized to utilize the production potential of the buffalo farming system. Keywords: Buffalo, Efficiency, Production, Reproduction B UFFALO plays a significant role in food security and poverty alleviation, particularly in Asian countries. Buffaloes, often described as the black gold are favourite multipurpose animals with huge potential for social and economic changes for the agrarian community. Recent data show (DAHDF, Govt. of India, 2021-22) that India has 111.85 million buffalo accounting for approximately 57.7% of global buffalo production. About 20.5% of the total livestock population in India is contributed by buffaloes. In India, buffalo contributes more than half of the total milk production producing 105.84 million tonnes of milk in the year 2021-22. Moreover, India ranks 1st in production of buffalo meat with share of 42.60% and exports buffalo meat to more than 70 countries across the globe. Astonishingly, the population of cattle decreased from 204.5 million to 193.46 million between 1992 to 2019, whereas despite so many odds, population of buffalo increased from 84.2 million to 109.85 million during the same period.