0 mm) attached to the upper end and vertically just below the lower roller can pass the power input to the chain-roller assembly. They are held in the vertical plane. (8) Chain system is the main important component to make it differ from the other forage cutter in the market. In this assembly Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator system, chain and two horizontal rollers are attached to each other, to distribute load in both rollers. Hence the input power applied at the shaft attached to chakka is almost the same as the previous one. The comparative strength and weaknesses of the improved forage cutter over conventional forage cutter are as follows: (1) In the improved model the rollers are mounted on bearings, whereas in conventional model rollers are mounted on bushes. (2). In the former the movement of forage is easy due to proper gap between the rollers and the plate. In the latter the gap is normally misaligned due to poor life of bushes, which leads to blockage of forage and thus increases the probability of accidents. (3). In improved model proper synchronization results in low efforts and high efficiency. In conventional model improper synchronization leads to high fatigue and low output. 4. In improved model incorporation of chain drive for the third roller distributes the load evenly on both sides, thus leading to easy running and low maintenance. In conventional model complete load on one side leads to high maintenance. (5). Side chakka in the former is made of better material (MS), which improves its life. In the latter model it is normally made of CS, leading to poor life and high maintenance. (6). Due to better material and proper synchronization the improved model can be operated with an electrical motor at high speed and thus saves appreciable cost. But separate machines are used in conventional model to operate with motors, which are costly. The improved version of the forage Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator cutter developed by Karanpal has following features: (1) Better cylinder movement, thus leading to minimum breakage of bearing and rollers, (2) Free movement of forage without any blockage, (3) Better synchronization due to incorporation of chain drive for the third roller, which distributes the load, is on both sides, (4) Incorporation of extra bearings reduces the wear and tear, (5) Same cost as the conventional forage cutters, (6) It is strong and sturdy, (7) It has longer life with less maintenance and (8) It is light in weight. Key words: chakka, chain, force, forage cutter, vertical plane, roller, shaft 2946 Three and four wheel tractor of 12 H.P. Shri Bhanjibhai has developed a small three-wheel tractor powered by a 10 HP engine. The unique feature of this tractor is that it was evolved over 15 years in its convertible ability.