in) of all ICAR personnel under single ICAR domain for effective communication. ICAR Data Center is ISO-27001:2013 certified for Information Security and ISO 20000-1:2011 for IT Service Management System. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 102 and efficient manner at ICAR. PMIS System was successfully implemented for posting of new recruited scientists and online transfer process in ICAR. Genetic code of groundnut stem rot disease causing fungus Atheliarol fsii: A team of scientists from JAU, Gujarat and ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi has successfully sequenced this fungal genome (~73Mb) and identified 16,830 genes. This study also revealed insight of evolution of pathogenicity and virulence. This fungal genome was sequenced for the first time in the world (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598- 017-05478-8). This finding will pave the way of genome based solution in stem rot disease management leading to better productivity of groundnut crop in tropical region of world. Estimating crop area, yield and production under mixed, repeated and continuous cropping: Sampling methodology for estimating crop area, yield and production under mixed and continuous cropping was developed. This methodology was tested and validated in Indonesia, Rwanda and Jamaica. The developed sampling methodology is likely to be adopted globally specially in developing countries in future by Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations. One technical report in the form of Technical Report Series: GO-21-2017, March 2017, Global Strategy, FAO, Rome, was published by the FAO and is available at FAO’s Global Strategy web site. Private food grains stock estimation: A suitable sampling methodology aligned with existing Input Survey for estimation of private food grain stock and post harvest losses at farm level was developed. The estimates of food grain stock, pre-harvest opening stock, production obtained, quantity sold, quantity stored, quantity disposed, percentage stock and percentage post-harvest loss at farm level were obtained along with its percentage Standard error (%SE), and were reasonably good. Therefore, it is expected that for overall holding size classes, the proposed methodology will provide farm level reliable estimates of food grain stock including post-harvest losses at district level. The project report was accepted by the FAO-India. The study established the feasibility of inclusion of developed questionnaire in the future Input Survey of Agriculture Census in India to estimate the food grains stock including post-harvest loss at farm operations and will bridge the gap on post-harvest information and private food grains stock in on-farm and off-farm domains of the supply chain. Estimation of area and production of horticultural crops: The ICAR-IASRI is the National Level Agency (NLA) under Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH).