 1808 213 Storage of rice Volume 2, page 250 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Karukkurachi and aalimaram Aalimaram: Bengali: luvuni, nona; Gujarati and Marathi: raamaaphal; Hindi: anta, luvuni, nagnewa, nona, raamaaphal; Kannada: raamaaphala; Malayalam: manilanilam, parankichchkka, raamachchita, vlathi; Oriya: barhial, nena, raamopholo, raamositaapholo; Sanskrit: krishnabeejam, lavali, lavani, mruduphalam, raamaaphalam; Tamil: aninuna, manilvatta, raamsita; Telugu: raamaaphalamu, raamaseethaaphalamu (fruit). Aalimaram: Bullock's heart, West Indian custard-apple Aalimaram: Annona reticulata Linn. Aalimaram: The fruit is brownish or yellowish red and is larger than that of A. squamosa, and fruits of about 1 kg each have been reported. The plant possesses insecticidal properties, the seed, leaf, stem and root being more potent than those of other species. The seed is reported to possess astringent and vermifugal properties, and is used in diarrhoea and dysentery. The seed-meal is rich in nitrogen. The oil is found to be toxic to aphids and can be used as a contact- poison. A water-suspension of the seed is reported to be lethal to green bugs. Aalimaram: A small, deciduous or semi- deciduous tree, up to 10 m in height, native to tropical America, particularly the West Indies, completely naturalized in some parts of India and also cultivated. Bark rough, chocolate-brown, with longitudinal fissures, 1.4-4.0 mm thick, becoming double-quilled when dry; leaves oblong-lanceolate, 10-20 cm x 2.5-1 A cm, with unpleasant odour; flowers solitary, leaves-opposed, fleshy, greenish- white, scattered on the branches; berries many, in heart- shaped syncarpium, yellowish or brownish-red when ripe, 7.5-18.0 cm in diameter, with pentagonal areoles; seeds smooth, black. The tree, introduced into India, has become completely naturalized in peninsular and eastern India, and also recorded from Uttar Pradesh and Nepal. Ripen fruits Branch Contents GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 224 Seed storage Volume 2, page 250 Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 225 Seed storage using goat dung Volume 2, page 251 Pungam Refer to ITK Code No. 1376 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 740 Innovative methods against stored grain pests Volume 2, page 251 Turmeric and mustard Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Mustard: Refer to ITK Code No.