 Note: AP- Andhra Pradesh, AS-Assam, BR-Bihar, CG-Chhattisgarh, GJ- Gujarat, HR-Haryana, HP- Himachal Pradesh, JH-Jharkhand, JK-Jammu & Kashmir, KA-Karnataka, KL-Kerala, MP-Madhya Pradesh, MH-Maharashtra, MN-Manipur, MZ-Mizoram, OR- Odisha, PB-Punjab, RJ-Rajasthan, TG-Telangana, TN-Tamil Nadu, TR-Tripura, UP-Uttar Pradesh, UK-Uttarakhand, WB- West Bengal. The Government of India has taken several initiatives towards improving the nutrient use efficiency, and bringing a balance in nutrient use. This includes introduction of neem-coated urea, soil health based application of nutrients, natural farming, etc. Neem- coated urea has been found effective in improving nutrient-use efficiency. The recent announcement of PM-PRANAM (Programme for Restoration, Awareness, Nourishment, and Amelioration of Mother Earth) aims at promoting balanced use of chemical fertilizers, while creating awareness about regenerative agriculture. A new scheme of Green Credit has been launched to incentivise farmers for the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices. To achieve these objectives, the first step should be to identify the districts with high fertilizer use and unbalanced use of nutrients for targeting of different schemes. Further, there is also a need to correct distortions in nutrient prices artificially created by differential rates of subsidy for different nutrients. Additionally, fertilizer subsidies should be linked with the recommended application of different nutrients. There is also a need for investment in research to look for alternatives to chemical fertilizers. Finally, the existing fertilizer subsidy should be re-purposed to agronomic practices that generate ecosystem services beneficial for soil, water and environmental health. Sources of growth in Indian agriculture What can substitute paddy– An economic perspective: Crop diversification is high on the policy agenda. The aim is to substitute water-guzzling paddy by other crops. Although there are several crops that technically can substitute paddy, but cannot because they are less remunerative as compared to paddy. Based on the economic criteria, i.e. the production costs and returns, the probability that paddy can be substituted by other crops (except horticultural crops) is extremely low in the Trans and Upper Gangetic plains. For example, in Haryana, the net returns from paddy are almost twice of that from cotton, and close to four times larger than that from pearl millet. Similarly, in Punjab the net returns from paddy are 25% more compared to cotton, and three times more than maize. Improving comparative advantage of alternative crops requires either significant improvement in their yields, or increase in their prices, or compensation to farmers for the revenue foregone from paddy.