 As expected, I do not find any differential increase in population and agricultural worker counts in treatment villages relative to control villages prior to the launch of the program (Columns 1-4, Appendix Table B2). To address concerns of this test potentially being underpowered, I repeat this exercise with all program-eligible villages across India.21 Panel A (c) of Fig. 3 plots yearly means by treatment status for this sam- ple of 51,424 villages, of which 23,985 are treated between 2001–2010. The patterns I describe above hold in this sample of program-eligible villages across India as well. Treatment villages are larger than control villages, and there appears to be an uptick in the number of agricultural workers in treated villages in 2011, which suggests an increase in agricultural activity. A formal test of equality of trends in the pre- period is presented in Columns 5 and 6 of Appendix Table B2. I find a small, statistically significant difference in total population growth across treatment and control villages in Column 5 (the magnitude of this difference is 0.68%, relative to the control mean). The test yields a precisely estimated null coefficient on the total number of agricultural workers in Column 6, which provides empirical support for the underlying assumption that agricultural activity trends in the 21 I outline the step-by-step implementation of this exercise in Appendix D.1. Journal of Development Economics 152 (2021) 102686 8 Y. Shamdasani same way across treatment and control villages prior to the launch of the program. Second, I use two waves of REDS surveys — corresponding to survey years 1982 and 1999 — to test the parallel pre-trends assumption in key agricultural outcomes used in the main analysis.22 I use specifications that are similar to Eqs. (1) and (3), except that the post dummy here takes the value one for the year 1999. I present results for five agricultural outcomes in Appendix Table B3. I fail to reject the null for four out of the five outcomes, which suggests that there are no differential changes in these outcomes across treatment and control villages prior to the launch of PMGSY. Third, I estimate an event study version of the difference-in- differences model using night time luminosity data, which has increas- ingly been used in economics as a proxy of economic output. The event study serves as a way to test the causal interpretation of the difference- in-differences analysis by allowing me to examine trends in pre-PMGSY years. I use an event window that ranges from three years before to three years after the launch of PMGSY, omitting the year 2000. Panel B of Fig. 3 plots the estimated differences and 95% confidence intervals for night time luminosity in treatment villages relative to control villages before and after the launch of PMGSY for program- eligible villages in (d) and incidental villages in (e).