 This method can be very accurate. Maintenance of Greenhouses Greasing should be done to the following parts of a polyhouses. Doors: The wheels of the doors and the ridge, on which the wheels move from one side to other, should be greased properly once a month. Racks: In case of an automatic opening and closing of vents of a greenhouse, the racks should be greased completely once a month. Adopters, in which the racks are moving, should be greased. This will result in easy movement of racks. Pipes on which the racks are mounted, joints of the pipe and racks should be greased. Handles of side vents: In case of side vents, the handle of side vents should be greased properly once a month. This will allow less force to operate the vents up and down. Wheels of shade nets: The wheels on which the string of shade net is moving, should be greased once in 15 days to achieve easy movement of shade net. Cleaning of top plastic: Accumulation of dust particles on the top of plastic reduces the light transmissions in the polyhouses up to 15%. In order to achieve maximum light transmission in the polyhouses, it is necessary to clean the top plastic. We can achieve this by washing the top plastic with clean water every month particularly in a peak season Such washing also helps removal of algae if it is collected on top plastic. Application of Distemper/chalk: Application of distemper/chalk helps in reducing light intensity and temperature in the greenhouse, especially in summer and hot seasons. Way of application: Lime or calcium carbonate [CaCO3] is used for coating on top plastic. White coating of lime reduces the temperature inside the greenhouse by 3–40 C, it also reduces the lux intensity by 20-25 Klux. For a polyhouses of 500 sqm area, 20 Kg of lime is mixed in 150 lit of water and is sprayed on top plastic with the help of foot pump or knapsack sprayer. The lime should be thoroughly mixed in water and it should be properly filtered with the use of clean cloth, otherwise there may be chances of chocking of nozzles of spray gun. For the lime to stick properly on the plastic, a gum or sticker [fevicol-ddl] is used in lime solution. Before using lime, the top plastic should be washed with clean water. Two labors can finish washing and lime coating in 4 hours for a polyhouses of an area 500 sqm. Procedure of application of distemper is same, only the quantity required is 15 Kg of distemper. Painting: In case of mild steel polyhouses, one should paint the structure with silver paint once in every two years. It will avoid rusting of the structure. CONCLUSION In the last 10-15 years, farmers from Northeast region have successfully grown Anthuriums and orchids those are in demand all over India and are also exported to Dubai and other countries. Vegetables cultivation under such structures is now common in Northeast. However, more efforts are required to promote such technology by using local available inputs like Bamboo, etc.