 Development of proper vaccination to control all the strains of virus casing FMD in cattle viii. Establishment of Fodder Bank in Ganderbal, Anantnag, Bandipora, Kupwara and Handwara districts to meet fodder requirement of area. ix. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Srinagar, Budgam, Ganderbal, Pulwama and Kupwara districts69 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 222 x. Establishment of elite mutton type stud rams mother farms. The superior rams produced in these farms can be distributed in niche belts suited for mutton production xi. Devising pilot projects in a phased manner for introduction of AI in sheep and goat. xii. Shift from traditional rearing mode to in house management for round the year availability of quality mutton. Poultry i. Popularization of dual purpose poultry breed “Kashmir ii. Commercial Layer” which gives about 150-180 eggs/year against 70-80 eggs in conventional breeds and also attains a weight upto 2 kgs in 6 months and thus can increase the economy both ways. iii. Development of hatcheries in Kashmir division to avoid the financial inputs upto the tone of RS 30 lakh/month in importing the one day old chicks from rest of the state. iv. Adoption of back yard poultry; v. Promotion of exotic hens having higher laying potential; vi. Increase egg production through improved variety of backyard poultry vii. To make backyard poultry sector an effective tool for production of poultry meat in the state. viii. Popularization of corn cultivation can have dual benefits as fodder and poultry feed and thus can be important part of IFS. Fisheries i. Cold water fisheries; fish farming, high nutrition fish feeds ii. Large scale development of fish ponds in Ganderbal, Budgam, Bandipora, Kupwara, Handwara, Srinagar, Budgam and Kulgam districts iii. Increasing hatching and rearing space for production of quality carp and trout seed in the existing hatcheries/fish farms of the department. iv. Development of Recreational Fisheries (Sport and Ornamental Fisheries) v. Reclamation of hitherto un-exploited areas for development of Fisheries vi. Development of Sport Fisheries Kashmir Regions. vii. Development of Marketing Facilities for fish and fish product by way of establishment of Wholesale /Retail Fish Markets. viii. Introduction of Cold storage facilities for maintaining the hygiene in the Marketing of fish Strategy 2: Access to market for better realization of farmers’ produce i. Development of cold chain system for fruits and vegetables in all the districts of Kashmir with special attention to fruit growing districts like Baramulla, Shopian, Pulwama and kulgam State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 223 ii. Promotion of farmer producer organization (FPOs); iii. Promoting special commodity markets; iv. Establishment of platform where farmers can be connected to e- market; v. Adoption of contract farming; vi. Public Private Partnership in creation of farm level infrastructure; vii.