 For preparing compost, in addition to farm wastes, materials such as sugarcane trash, urban wastes like garbage, night soil, industrial wastes like coir waste and pressmud are used. Enriched FYM with P and K and bio-inoculants are popularly used in crop production. The increasing number of poultry units supplies considerable quantities of poultry wastes, which are used as source of nutrients, sludges and effluents form minor sources of organic manures (Tamil Nadu). Selvakumari et al. (2001) 44 Nutrient management technology in selected agro-eco regions of Maharashtra In all 16 indigenous nutrient management practices are in vogue in 9 agro-climatic zones of Maharashtra. The technologies refer to are use of dung-urine slurry, vermiculture through rishikrishi method, use of soil of ant-hill + cowdung + urine + biofertilizer smearing to seed, use of Gadhies (Buruj) soil or tank and well silt, feeding of banana suckers/pseudostem to sitting cattle in the field, practice of confining sheep/goats on uncropped land, practice of raising nursery on the place of sitting cattle/sheep/goat herd, burying of dead animals under fruit trees, rabbing in rice fields, burning of sugarcane trash in the field, use of rice husk, sorghum stubble, use of fish waste direct and after composting, practice of utera crop after rice, use of residual fertile soil for growing legumes on rice bund and utilization of organic residue (biomass) of greengram/blackgram in cropping system/intercropping (Maharashtra). Malewar et al. (2001) 105 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 45 Technology for nutrient management in Jammu and Kashmir Agriculture is the mainstay of the people of Jammu and Kashmir. The farmers of Jammu and Kashmir produce crops, rear livestock and majority of the farmers use organic manure prepared from dung and urine of the livestock. A number of farmers practice green manuring wherein dhaincha and sunnhemp are mainly used (Jammu and Kashmir). Gupta et al. (2001) 46 Nutrient mangement practices of West Bengal West Bengal has diverse agro-ecological zones. Farmers of the different zones follow various indigenous practices for nutrient management in their fields. These practices are mainly centered on the use of organics in different forms, viz., tank silt, fish- meal, night soil, sewage-sludge, leaf mold and green manuring. Besides, ingenuity in pattern of land use and crop rotations such as fallowing, paira cropping are also important indigenous practices followed by the farmers of the state to maintain soil health (West Bengal). Mandal and Mandal (2001) 47 Nutrient management technolgy of Central Himalaya Indigenous technology of traditional societies indicates, organic resource incorporation into the farming systems and composting of available resources (crop residue, by-product) as major nutrient management strategies in Central Himalaya (Central Himalaya). Singh et al.