6 billion, according to estimates by Greenpeace (World Health Organization, 2021). In addition to damaging the ecosystem of Indo-Gang- etic plains, this open burning of biomass negatively impacts health, climate, cryosphere, monsoon patterns, agricultural production, and farmers’ income (Bhattarai et al., 2019). It is interesting to note that the root cause of CRB practice lies in various government policies, starting from GR and includ- ing policies that encouraged the adoption of HYV seeds, RWS, MSP and more recent policies that stipulate the rice sowing season to be matched with the monsoon commence- ment in a bid to save groundwater. The impact of various agricultural policies from a social and environmental sus- tainability point of view has been quite negative, as can be gleaned from Table 2. Requisite changes to promote sustainable agricultural policies While the majority of the farmland (>90%)34 in India uses chemical-based farming, sustainable agriculture practices have started catching up in recent times. The long-term sustainability of agriculture and food production in India will depend on the large-scale adoption of such practi- ces. However, government policies and incentives are still supporting chemical-based farming. For example, out of D1,250 billion of the total budget for agriculture (including agricultural education and research), only D4.6 billion is provided to support natural farming methods35. To eliminate the impact of the existing policy structure on the current cropping patterns and promote a shift to sustainable cropping patterns, a signiﬁcant shift in fund- ing and policy focus is necessary. Below listed are a few policy mechanisms to enable the reorientation towards more sustainable agriculture. Sustainable agricultural practices The Council on Energy, Environment and Water (CEEW) con- ducted extensive ﬁeld studies to identify the various sustain- able agricultural practices (SAPs) being adopted in the country. CEEW has identiﬁed 30 different SAPs and their impact on yield, water use, GHG emissions, biodiversity and health (Gupta, Pradhan, Jain, & Patel, 2021). Several other research studies have examined SAPs, such as Organic Farm- ing, Conservation Agriculture, Agroforestry, and Precision Farming, and found that each of them demonstrates differ- ent types of beneﬁts from a triple-bottom-line perspective. According to CEEW, most SAPs promote crop and food diversity through intercropping, mixed cropping, crop rota- tion, agroforestry, etc. The resultant diversiﬁcation of food and income sources has the potential not only to increase farmers’ food security but also to enhance nutrition security (Dwivedi, Lammerts van Bueren, Ceccarelli, Grando, Upad- hyaya, & Ortiz, 2017), thus contributing to a reduction in India’s malnutrition. However, adopting SAPs is not straight- forward, as they are both knowledge- and labour-intensive.