 The scale-neutrality of the technologies of freshwater and marine ornamental fish breeding and culture is likely to help in the expansion of the activity from the present practice only in areas adjoining cities/towns. It is expected that with the continued R&D efforts by fisheries research institutions, initiation of new programmes of the Government of India like Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY), increasing thrust on technology dissemination and convergence between the organizations & government agencies, increased private investments, etc., the fisheries sector would continue to keep the growth pace and able to achieve the national target fish production of 22 mmt and export value of US$ 14 billion by 2025. The saying “Give a man a fish and you feed him for a day; Teach a man to fish and you feed him for a lifetime” is more relevant today when the future increase in fish production needs to come largely from aquaculture and in this endeavour dissemination of scientific technologies has to be the main key. Key takeaways Adoption of diversification of species and of culture systems for increasing fish production. Non-conventional farming systems including cage culture, ornamental fish farming, seaweed farming, etc. have to be focused on for entrepreneurship development. 73 Contemporary Agricultural Research KNOW YOUR DAIRY FOOD A.K. Srivasatava India produces 22 per cent of world milk. In early 1970’s India’s milk production was 1/3rd of the US and 1/8th of the European Countries. At present it is twice of the US and 25 per cent more than EU. In India, every fifth rupee generated in farm sector is from milk. By 2024, livestock sector is predicted to produce more than half of the total agricultural output. Cattle population is second largest in the world and 36.04 per cent of the total Indian livestock population. Over 70 million of 147 million Indian households depend on dairy and out of these 75 per cent are small marginal and landless milk producers. Milk processing scenario indicates 50 per cent milk consumption is fresh; and only 5 per cent is for value addition. Technologies for detection of adulterants in milk and milk products have also been developed Recently there has been increased interest in nutritional and therapeutic virtues of milk of non-bovine (sheep, goat, camel donkey) and minor bovine (mithun, yak) animals. Consumption of non-bovine milk production has increased by 20 per cent in the last 4-5 decades. Milk is an excellent source of quality proteins, good fat important source of Ca, Mg, P, K, iodine, Se, vitamin A, D, B12, K, Riboflavin, Biotin and pantothenic acid. There are two probiotic dairy products— one for cardiovascular health (Cardioviva- world’s first disease specific probiotic to maintain cholesterol level) and Glucoviva for treating diabetes 2. Lately, there is Prof. A.K. Srivastava, Former Member ASRB, Currently Vice Chancellor U.P.