 Sarjoo 52, Mahamaya and MTU 1010 varieties are likely to maintain normal to enhanced yields in future in Uttar Pradesh, Chhattisgarh and Bihar. Except Bihar, all states in eastern region are likely to experience reduced yields of below or equal to 10% during mid-century climate- change scenario. Mitigation of climate change in rainfed regions: An experiment was initiated in pigeonpea and castor system with different tillage practices and also residue levels, by managing harvesting heights (0 cm, 10 cm and 30 cm) to increase residue contributions in the field. The GHG emissions (considering both indirect emissions from farm operations and input use) were reduced by 26 and 12 % in zero tillage and reduced tillage over conventional tillage. The percentage contributions of N2O based CO2 emissions were higher to total GHG emissions in both pigeonpea and castor. Net global warming potential (NGWP) and Greenhouse gas intensity (GHGI) were influenced by tillage and residue treatments. They increased with increase in crop residues in both the crops. The fuel consumption in zero tillage was reduced by 58 and 81% as compared to conventional tillage in pigeonpea and castor, respectively. The results indicated scope to reduce GHG emissions by reducing one tillage operation (reduced tillage) and by harvesting crop residues at 10- and 30-cm height with minimal impact on crop yields. Soil-organic carbon sequestration rate was positive in tillage and residue treatments with highest rate in zero tillage with 10- and 30- cm anchored residues but it was negative in conventional tillage with no residues. Prediction of future of mango fruit-fly (Bactrocera zonata): Temperature-based phenology model was developed for mango fruit-fly by constructing thermal reaction norms for cohorts of single life stages at both constant and fluctuating temperatures within ecologically relevant range (15–35°C) for its development. The model was implemented in the Arc GIS to examine potential future pest status of B. zonata, using temperature change projections from the SRES A1B climate-change scenario for year 2050. Geographical regions on the map with the establishment risk index (ERI) value 1.0 indicated that at least certain proportion of B. zonata population could establish and survive throughout the year. The areas where ERI was less than 1.0, likelihood of permanent establishment of B. zonata was reduced considerably. Major areas of mango cultivation are predicted as optically suitable for establishment, abundance and spread of B. zonata. B. zonata is predicted to complete average of 8-10 generations (GI) per year under the current climatic conditions in most of the mango-production areas. Owing to climate change, B. zonata may complete additional two more generations per year in most of the mango-growing belt of the country. Further, being highly polyphagous pest, chances of incidence and population dynamics into new areas are greater.