 The CGIAR’s new framework is organized around five impact area platforms: (i) Nutrition, health and food security to achieve positive measurable benefits; (ii) Poverty reduction, livelihood and jobs; (iii) Gender equality, youth and social inclusion; (iv) Climate adoption and mitigation; (v) Environmental health and biodiversity. CGIAR research programmes and platforms have been consolidated into four coherent groups (three global and one regional) to effectively work towards the five impact areas by prioritizing system transformation, resilient agri- food systems and genetic innovations. By drawing on the global network’s best capabilities and ways of working and by rethinking engagement with traditional and new partners, it is possible to improve the CGIAR’s efficiency and reach and deliver impact in the epilogue of the Food Systems Summit. Key takeaways All agriculture in the future must be nature positive; not only in the developing countries but at the global level. Land, food and water systems can be transformed by using strategic alliances and investments in research partnerships. 140 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series FUTURE PROOFING THE DRYLANDS Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes The drylands are the home to 2.1 billion people; and produce half the world’s grains and meat. While the global aggregate production is more than enough to ensure that the world population can be fed; yet endemic hunger and malnutrition persists across poorer regions of the world, especially in the drylands. Climate change and extreme climatic events are leading to big shifts in food systems such as rapid urbanization and lifestyle changes, demographic transitions, greater food awareness and the degrading ecological base of agriculture. Dryland agriculture in Asia and sub-Saharan Africa is constrained by fragmented land holdings, resource- poor farmers, low availability of water and other resources, lack of adequate agriculture infrastructure, weak seed systems and value chains and also poorly resourced research in dryland crops Future technologies for drylands Precision agriculture: If 15-25 per centt of farms are able to adopt precision agriculture globally, yields from the fields could increase by 10-15 per cent, greenhouse gas emissions could be reduced by 10 per cent and water use could be reduced by 20 per cent. Artificial intelligence and blockchain: About 30 per cent of food produced is lost or wasted along the value chain. Farmers need access to the right inputs Dr Jacqueline d’Arros Hughes is the Director General of the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT), Hyderabad, India. Her main interests are in plant health, epidemiology, gender equity, nutrition and remote sensing/digital agriculture. 141 Climate Smart Agriculture for their farms and also access to the right data in a timely manner. Predictive analytics could be a game changer for agriculture.