21: Provision of funds for seed godown JNKVV, Jabalpur mentioned that for better utilization of KVK instructional farm, an amount of Rs 10 lakh for each KVK may be provided for seed & fertilizer godown for each KVK. The issue was discussed and it was suggested to send the required information to DDG (Extn.) [Action: VC, JNKVV; DDG (Extn.] Agenda 6.22: Administrative Block of the Vishwa Vidyalaya JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The issue was discussed and it was suggested to send the required information for consideration in next plan. [Action: VC, JNKVV] Agenda 6.23: Extension of hostel facilities for girls JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The issue was discussed and it was suggested to send the required information. [Action: VC, JNKVV] Agenda 6.24: University auditorium cum conference complex JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The issue was discussed and it was suggested to send the required information. [Action: VC, JNKVV] 14 Agenda 6.25: College – specific/ project specific allotment of ICAR development grants KAU, Thrissur mentioned that part (Fifty percent) of the development grant sanctioned to a SAU may be made project specific and college specific so that at the end of the plan period, there will be some projectable development in the infrastructure. The remaining fifty percent may be allotted as is being done now so that the VCs can prioritize and spend the amount. It was noted. Agenda 6.26: Provision for grants to develop simulation models for imparting Veterinary Education KVAFSU, Bidar presented the agenda and emphasized for funding for creating facilities for hands on training for veterinary graduates through electronic technologies. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.27: Support grant for celebrating World Veterinary Year KVAFSU, Bidar presented the agenda requesting a grant of Rs 1 lakh for each Veterinary college or Rs 2 lakh for every Veterinary University of the country. It was decided to release 1 lakh for each veterinary college including Animal Science Institutes for strengthening them. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.28: Support grant for Entrepreneurship courses KVAFSU, Bidar presented the agenda. It was suggested to take up the issue in the XII plan. Agenda 6.29: Organizing the Agri-Fest and Agri-Sports KVAFSU, Bidar presented the agenda. The decision on Agri-Sports (2011-12) at PDKV, Akola and Agrifest (2011-12) at GBPUA&T Pantnagar was already taken during the last meeting. It was decided to organise Agri-sports (2012-13) at KVAFSU, Bidar and Agrifest (2012-13) at JNKVV, Jabalpur. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.30: Niche Area Centre of Excellence Project Transformation MAU, Parbhani mentioned that the Niche Area Centre of Excellence located at College of Food Science, MKV, Parbhani needs to be converted into non plan project to explore its full potential for education and need based research. Agenda 6.