 SUCCESS STORY Intercropping of ber in date palm: a way forward for doubling of farmers’ income Shri Sona Ram belonging to Bhedana village Gudamalanito tehsil of Barmer district planted Date palm (variety Barhee) in 2016. He planted 208 date palms at row to row spacing of 8 m and plant to plant spacing of 6 m in one ha area. He obtained low benefit cost ratio due to high cost of cultivation that compelled him to think of some innovation. Then he took initiative of intercropping ber in date palm fields under the supervision of KVK, Barmer-II. He has planted 204 ber plants as intercroping in date palm fields. The flowering and harvesting of date palm is February to March and July to August, whereas ber plants are August to September and December to February, respectively, in arid region. The planting of additional ber plants provides an additional income. Intercropping of ber has helped farmer to take higher profit than sole cropping of date palm. He obtained net returns of ` 206,855/ha and B: C ratio of 2.12 by cultivation of date palm. With intercropping of ber net return is being realized to the tune of ` 278,095/ha. Seed distribution Training programme on Integrated Farming System (IFS) TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 148 Demonstration on Nutritional Garden under NARI by COVID 19 during day to day farm operations and post-harvest activities. An added impetus was given to the attempts made during the previous year with reference to brining awareness on Covid appropriate behaviour, implementing field operations and marketing strategies to be deployed for effecting disposal of farm produce. Advisories on crop and livestock production/ protection technologies for kharif 2021 and rabi and summer 21–22 in 15 different local languages were compiled, uploaded on ICAR website and disseminated by KVKs through extensive use of ICT platforms and social media. A total of 430 awareness programmes were conducted by KVKs across the country to bring awareness on covid appropriate behaviour among 79,470 farmers during the period under report—crop (8,486) and livestock (3,320) related advisory were given by KVKs during the crop seasons for the benefit of 1,504, 400 and 196,264 farmers respectively. A total of 560 different interventions were undertaken by KVKs with respect to facilitating marketing of farm produce amidst constraints posed for transport of commodities during second wave of COVID 19 benefitting 108,815 farmers. In addition to these attempts, KVKs also undertook various COVID related interventions like publication of literature, use of Youtube channel and other social media platforms for helping farmers overcome restrictions posed by the pandemic benefitting about 50,000 farmers.