 The improvement in these parameters examined thereof was observed under these plots could be associated with carbohydrates liberated by glomalin soil related protein (GSRP) which functions as a trap for diverse group of microorganisms and SOM, and finally resulting in the increased SMBC, β-GaA and development of extra-cellular polycarbohydrates to stabilizes water aggregates size of 1–2 mm [24,50]. The significant reduction observed in WSA1–2mm under CT(C)-CT(M)-Fallow (NSr) and CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) (Table 3) concur with the findings of Beare et al. [51] who have indicated that continuous cultivation of the soil leads to decreased soil ag­ gregation. Wright et al. [52] have also reported better stability of 1–2 mm size aggregates after three years of no-till (NT) relative to plough-tillage. However, biological properties bind the soil particles and quickly respond to soil disturbances and other agricultural management practices. Of all the biological properties examined, AMF is of critical importance, ascribed to a physical impact of a network enclose to the soil fragments, along-with the hyphal secretion of some GRSP, which binds the soil constituent [6,46]. 12.3. System cotton equivalent yield The system yield in terms of cotton equivalent increased by nearly 14 % with zero tillage + residue retention treatment and by 116 % with weed management interventions. It was also observed that system yield was higher with integrated weed management (IWM), followed by the herbicide application. This could be due to the herbicides ability for weed suppression, which reduces weed competition, thus giving access to the plant for adequate resources (moisture, air, light and nutrients) required for the growth and development. On the other hand, herbicides decrease soil biological attributes, particularly in regions likes semi-arid of southern Telangana in India with inadequate status of SOC and alkaline soil pH probably due to inhibition of soil C cycling. Similar results were reported by Rose et al. [53] who has observed inhibition of soil biota in alkaline and low organic matter soils treated with glyphosate and atrazine in the semi-arid zones of Australia. So, considering both system yield and soil quality related attributes examined in the present study, IWM along-with ZT(C) + SrR-ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS was considered remunerative treatment combination with better system yield, soil microbial biomass carbon and β-galactosidase activity probably brought about by low weed density at the initial crop developmental phase. The application of herbicides in time and subsequent control of later germinated weeds by the supplemented inter-cultural operation followed by hand weeding cause a reduction in weed competition, leading to increased photosynthetic activity [54,55], and this agrees with the results of the present investigation. 12.4.