 Š Š Rigorous health care programme such as deworming vaccination, improving farm sanitation and monitoring of Procine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome and other trans-boundary diseases must be ensured regularly to be taken up under the strict supervision of State Veterinary Department. Š Š Setting up of biogas plants for controlling environmental pollution. Š Š Establishment of hygienic pork production, pork processing plant and abattoir for ensuring market to the producers. Introduction of regulation and enforcement of safety animal food production mainly in urban and semi urban areas at the initial stage. Š Š For enhancing animal based Integrated Farming Systems in the state, greater efforts may be given to encourage duck-cum-fish farming, pig- cum-fish farming in areas where water bodies are available. Š Š For doubling the household income, the ideal combinations would be to maintain i) 2-3 363 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 dairy cattle, 100 chick and 20-30 ducks in semi urban areas; ii) 2-3 dairy cattle, 3-4 pigs, 25 - 100 chickens and 20 ducks in rural areas of valley; and iii) 1-2 cattle, 100 chickens, 15 ducks and 3-4 pigs in hill areas for a household having at least 0.5 hectare of land. Š Š Livestock like goat may be encouraged in the hills integrated with other crops in small holdings. Recommended Animal Breeds Š Š Cattle: Cross-breds of Holstein-Friesian/Jersey, etc. (Source of germplasm to be arranged from NDRI, Karnal/West Bengal/ AAU, Assam, Khanapara in the form of frozen semen mainly in addition to procurement of bulls (selected units) for cross breeding & up- gradation). Š Š Pigs: Cross-breds of Hampshire/Yorkshire/ Berkshire/Large Australian, etc. through vertical expansion directly by procuring parent stock from NRC, Pig, Assam / AAU, Assam. Š Š Poultry: Strains/Commercial parents of Classic Hubbard/Cobbs/Vencobbs/Gramapriya/ Srinidhi/Giriraja/Vanaraja/FFGN/CARIShyama/ Nirbheek/Priya/Devendra, etc (Initially procurement of eggs of commercial parents and rearing at the research station for production of high yielding chicks) Š Š Ducks: Cross-breds of Khaki Campbell/ Pekin/Indian Runner/ Muscovy, etc. (Initially procurement of eggs of commercial parents and rearing at the research station for production of high yielding chicks) Š Š Goats: Cross-breds of Black Bengal, Assam local, etc. (Direct procurement of animals from AAU, Khanapara, Assam & multiplication at the research station for supply to the target indexing groups of the state). Š Š For different farming systems with fishery components the major recommendations were rearing of local high value fishes like Ngaton/ pengba which are labour intensive in less than 0.5 ha holdings. Š Š For hill terraces: Paddy cum Pisciculture with Indian major carps is recommended. Š Š Taking up fish breeding and making readily Availability of quality fish would be one option for earning higher returns.