 Keywords: pigeonpea, cowdung ash, earthen pot Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 2303 Storing of chickpea seed by using its husk in earthen bins The tribal farmers of Nandurbar, Dhule and Ahmednagar districts store seeds of chickpea by using chickpea husk in earthen pots. The husk is spread at the bottom of the pot and over that a layer of seed is spread. In this manner alternate layers of husk Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  and seed are laid in the pot. The mouth of the bin is covered with earthen lid which is made airtight by plastering with dung and mud. Keywords: chickpea seed, husk, earthen pot 2466 Use of sand to store greengarm The harvested greengram is mixed with sand and stored. The sand particles absorb the moisture from greengram seeds and thus increase their storage life. The cuticle (upper skin) of the insect is damaged by friction with sand particles and the pest population is reduced in greengarm. Farmers of Gudalur village in Tamil Nadu are following this practice since 10 years. Keywords: greengram, sand particles Shri P. Devandran Nallasamy Therar, W-4 Guddalur (Tamil Nadu) 625 518 2303 Storage of beans in ash In pulse crops there is much infestation of stored grain pests. Therefore, good preservation of beans is a skill because the seed has to be stored for the next season sowing. The bean seeds are mixed with ash and stored in tin boxes. This results in good storability of grains Keywords: beans, tin box, ash Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2438 Storage of grains by mixing dried neem leaves or ash Farmers of north Solapur and Ahmednagar districts are using dried neem leaves or ash to store grains safely. It prevents the attack of store grain pests. Keywords: neem leaves, ash Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2461 Use of neem leaves in controlling stored grain pest Farmers of Venkatapuram, Reddipalli and Ratarypuram in Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh use dry neem leaves along with paddy and store it in gunny bags. Neem leaves act as insect repellent. It is an eco- friendly and a low cost technology used to control storage pests. Keywords: neem leaves, stored grain pests, gunny bag, insect repellent Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515 701 2464 Use of walnut, mentha, neem and eucalyptus leaves in storing grains To avoid the attack of insect pests in stored grains, the farmers make use of leaves of walnut, mentha, neem and eucalyptus in grain storage. Farmers store their grain in a container called peru. During storage time about 5-6 leaves each of these plants are kept at various depths of peru. These leaves act as repellent to the insect pests.