4 mg) in Kheri ewes, synchronized with lutayse (two 10 mg doses, 10 days apart), gave a good ovarian response. DAIRYING AND ANIMAL PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY MILK AND MILK PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY Milk Processing Technologies ● Technology for the manufacture of non-dairy coffee whitener was developed. ● Shelf stable tomato - whey soup was developed. ● Incorporating sugar partly in caramelised form could reduce manufacturing time of kunda as well as energy consumption. The results indicated that the manufacture time could be reduced by 25 - 45% and the energy requirement by 45% by adopting this method. TECHNOLOGIES ASSESSED AND TRANSFERRED ● The efficacy of twin apron conveyor system for making chhana and the kneader was demonstrated to the interested users for its adoption. ● A Palada Payasam Instant Mix was developed at Southern Regional Station, Bangalore under the Network Project, and commercialized by transferring the technology to Malabar Milk Producers Union (MILMA) in Kerala. ● Hansa test serum to detect adulteration cow milk with buffalo milk was produced and supplied to various dairies from time to time. ● A Palada Payasam dry mix was developed at the SRS, NDRI. The Malabar Co-operative Milk Producers Union Ltd., procured the technology for commercial production of Palada Payasam in Kerala. ● Pronounced immunomodulatory effect was observed in bioactive peptides derived from casein. ● Antimicrobial spectrum of purified buffalo milk lysozyme was established. ● Lactobacilli exhibiting good probiotic properties, viz. survival at pH 1-3 in the presence of 2-4% bile and higher cell surface hydrophobicity and adsorption to epithelial cells, were isolated. ● The process of making good quality skimmed milk powder by using a combination of coagulant (citric acid+whey, 75:25) and sodium chloride, each at 0.05% and fermented skim milk (15% w/w), was standardized. Camel Milk Physico chemical and gross chemical composition of camel milk was studied. Camel milk is opaque white in colour with normal odour and salty sweet in taste. Milk samples were analyzed for protein, fat, lactose, SNF, ash, moisture, vitamin C, pH, acidity, specific gravity and viscosity. Camel milk was evaluated for shelf life for 8 hr at 37°C and refrigerated temperature. Postpartum changes in gross chemical composition of camel colostrum/milk acidity and pH ranged from 0.29 to 0.3 and 6.35 to 6.61 respectively, fat increased from 0.1 to 3.78%, and protein deviated from 17.62 to 2.66%. An increase in pH and decrease in acidity in milk with time of calving was observed. Goat Milk The milk yield was highest (0.770 ml/day) in Jakhrana and lowest (0.500 ml/ day) in Marwari. Similar trend was observed for fat content. The pH value was higher for Sirohi (6.64), followed by Jakhrana, Marwari and Kutchi.