 Hand tool for okra (bhindi) harvesting: Harvesting of okra is difficult as it has filaments on the outer surface of pod which often pierce into hand while plucking and causes skin irritation and injury. To address these problems, a manual harvesting tool has been developed. A collecting box is provided which can collect about 200-250 g okra (15-20 pods). The average harvesting capacity is 13.6 kg/h with 99% cutting efficiency and 93.4% collecting efficiency. Moreover, the machine provides the comfort in hands and protects from the skin irritation. It eliminates the complete hand touch of okra pod. Ergonomical pineapple leaf pruner: Pineapple leaves have thorns which pierce the skin during harvesting of fruits or during pruning. The traditional operation includes cutting older leaves with a dao (knife) resulting in poor posture due to the short length of the knife. To combat this, a long-handle pineapple leave pruner has been developed. The pineapple leaf pruner is operated by DC motor and battery. The battery of 12V, 20Ah can be used for 5 h on a single charge. It has been observed that the average number of leaves cut per minute are 90 with increase in productivity of 79%, whereas the number of plants cut per minute is 26 with increase in productivity of 85% as compared with the manual method. The field capacity of the pruner is 0.005 ha/h. The battery powered pineapple leaf pruner can reduce the musculoskeletal disorder (MSD) involved during pruning operation as well as increases the productivity. Deep learning based bird identification for automatic feed dispenser: A computer vision based bird identification system has been developed to count the birds and can be used to calculate the amount of feed to be dispensed. The object detection algorithm used is Yolov7, an upgraded version in the YOLO family of object detectors, characterized by its fast detection, high precision, and easy training and deployment. The image acquisition has been conducted under the natural light condition from the farm using the digital camera (64 MP Camera). The model performed better with 100 epochs and IoU is set to 0.5. The batch size is set to 16 as it gives better performance compared to other combinations. The model converged successfully without any overfitting during the training phase after 80 epochs. The model achieved an overall precision of 84%, recall 83% and mean average precision (mAP) value of 84%. The results show that the computer vision approach is effective in detecting birds and can be effectively integrated into the automatic feed dispenser for poultry birds. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 109 Automatic spraying system for polyhouse: The polyhouse has high temperature and humidity that could be very severe and hazardous for workers who spray pesticides due to poor air circulation. To combat it, an automatic spraying system has been developed for chemical application inside the polyhouse. The developed system has two units, i.e.