 SUMMARY With changing climatic conditions, rising global population, expanding water requirements across various sectors, and shifting attitudes towards water usage priorities in developed nations, it Process of automated sub-surface drip irrigation in rice is imperative that we initiate efforts to promote, raise awareness and implement innovative techniques such as automation in drip irrigation at the grassroots level. Automated drip irrigation not only conserves water but also contributes to weed control and mitigates the effects of salinity on plants, culminating elevated crop yields and enhanced irrigation water efficiency. The Indian government has launched schemes like the Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) to promote micro-irrigation and efficient water use in agriculture. These initiatives aim to encourage adoption through financial incentives, capacity building, and technical assistance. Collectively, the Indian and state governments are offering substantial subsidies, ranging between 70% and 90%, to facilitate the widespread adoption of micro irrigation systems. The automation of micro-irrigation systems in India presents a promising solution to address water scarcity and enhance agricultural productivity. The integration of automation technology enhances the effectiveness of these systems. However, challenges related to affordability, education, and maintenance need to be addressed to achieve widespread adoption. By adopting automation technology, farmers can optimize water use, reduce costs, and contribute to sustainable farming practices. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sk0097411@gmail.com TEXTBOOK ON CHEESE TECHNOLOGY TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 369; Price: ` 600.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-273-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Textbook on Cheese Technology” This textbook is an excellent compilation of the basics of cheese technology, incorporating the advances that are taking place in the modern cheese industry in order to tackle issues such as cheese manufacturing, quality, mechanization, safety, cost, environment etc. This textbook is written with a view to cater to the evolving needs of the rapidly growing cheese industry and highly suited for the Dairy and Food Science Colleges of the globe. Indian Farming 33 September 2023 Enhancing profits for Himachal Pradesh growers: Exploring kiwifruit production technologies Neha Dhiman, Jaya Chaudhary and Rajeev Raina* Krishi Vigyan Kendra Chamba, (Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni Solan) Himachal Pradesh 173 230 Kiwifruit cultivation has great potential in Himachal Pradesh due to its suitable agro-climatic conditions.