 On the basis of their assessment, the technical persounel will be given merit promotion or advance increment(s), as the case may be. The number of advance increments to be given will not exceed three. One advance increment means one increment over and above the normal annual increment. I. 2. 3. 4. 5. 6. 7. 8. ICAR HANDBOOK OF TEOIN!CAL SERVICL'i Proforma Ill ASSESSMENT FORM FOR TECHNICAL PERSONNEL (CATEGORY III) OF THE ICAR rTo hf filled in by /he concerned fall Section al the Jnslitutd/C AR hqn·J Reported period Name Date of birth/age Field of specialization ' Basic degree and the institution the degree was obtained from Date of entry into the Council's service Present grade and scale of pay Duties assigned to the posl for which the person has been recruited 9. Date of continuous appointment to the present grade 10. Any other basic information B (Besides the above information. the office may be required to furnish at the time of assessment all the information relevant to the employee's career before and after entry into the ICARJ " !CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES PART I (To be filled m br 1/te Rel'invee) Please furnish the following information. 1. Educa1ional career : Degree/Diploma/ Certificate Doctorate Class/Grade Mas1er 's degree or equivaJent or any higher degree Bachelor's degree I Diploma Matriculation/school leaving certificate/ higher secondary!PUC 2. (a) Subjects of specialization at the highest degree/ diploma (b) Sub3ects of specialization at the next lower degree I diploma University/Board Year Institute 3. Additional qualification/training acquired In India and/or abroad (List of a!l part-time -or short-term trainings. not included in educational career. Give dates, duties and duration of course) ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES " 4. Employment record oflast five/seven years ending on ................. starting with your present post, list in Reverse Order every employment you have had. Name of Designation employing organization Salary/pay Date of Date of scale joining leaving Nature of duties actually performed 5. What were the priority areas of work during the past five/seven years of your service ending on. . . . . . . . . ... Please mark priorities against each area as 1,2,3, etc. one being the highest and so on; and indicate the percentage of time approximately allotted to each priority area (Normally, you should not assign more than thr~ priorities. As area should be considered a priority area, only ifit takes at least 25% of your working time). Area Technical suppon for scientific work Teaching/guiding Extension Management/Co- Ordina1ion Administration Priority Any other area (Please specify the area) Time allocation IC AR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 6.