 Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Pigeonpea: Arhar is largely consumed in the form of split pulse or dal or, when tender, as a vegetable. The green leaves and tops of the plant are used as fodder and as green manure. The husk of the pods and seeds constitutes a valuable cattle feed. Arhar is a good soil-renovator and is used against soil erosion and also as a cover crop. Pigeonpea: An erect, annual or perennial hairy, suffruticose herb or shrub, 0.75 to 4.3 m in height, cultivated nearly throughout India up to an altitude of 1,800 m in the Himalayas. Leaves trifoliolate, leaflets oblong-lanceolate, entire, acute mucronate, sub-coriaceous; flowers yellow, or yellow veined with red or purple, in sparse distinctly peduncled, densely hairy, corymbose racemes, often forming a terminal panicle; pods 5.0-7.5 cm x 0.6-1.25 cm, finely downy, 3-7 seeded; seeds greyish brown, red or pale yellow, often with a small caruncle. Although India is believed to be the native home of pigeonpea or arhar, some doubt exists whether the genus was originally a native of India or of Africa. The absence of any wild or even naturalized form anywhere in the Indian subcontinent, perhaps precludes an Indian origin to this genus. 1192 Use of a mixture of mustard oil, sugar, pulse grains and unripe banana finger to increase milk yield in cows and buffaloes Volume 2, page 332 Mustard, sugar, pulse, banana Banana: Hindi: kela; Kannada: bale; Malayalam: vazha; Sanskrit: kadali, ramMa; Tamil: vazhaiTelugu: arati, anati Banana: Edible banana, plantain Banana: Musa paradisiaca Linn. Banana: Banana peel is a potential source of pectin. Banana fruit possesses mild laxative properties. The fruit aids in combating diarrhoea and dysentery and promotes the healing of intestinal region in ulcerative colitis. Banana powder is effective in the treatment of colic disease. The ripe fruit is useful in diabetes, uremia, nephritis, gout, hypertension and cardiac disease. Unripe fruit and cooked Active ingredients Geographical indications Contents TTK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES flowers are useful in diabetes. The ash of the root and also the entire plant is anthelmintic. Geographical indications Banana: Edible bananas of hybrid origin valued for their seedless fruits are included under this specific name. They Flowers and Fruits Habit comprise all the diploid, triploid or tetraploid clones, mainly hybrids of M. acuminata and M. balbisiana.