 Relationships between (a) soil organic carbon (SOC) concentration (g kg−1) and MWD (mm), (b) stratification ratio (SR) of SOC concentration and storage of SOC (Mg ha−1), (c) SR of TN concentration and storage of TN (Mg ha−1) under different land use practices (Forest, ZT, RT, and CT). The SRs 0–5:5–10, 0–5:10–15, 0–5:15–20, 0–5:20–25, and 0–5:25–30 cm necessarily correlate to SOC and TN storage at 0–10, 0–15, 0–20, 0–25 and 0–30 cm, respectively. Fig. 8. Changes in soil CPI among different land uses (ZT, RT, and CT) with reference to Sal forest at six soil depths. The data present mean ± SD (m = 3). The different uppercase alphabets imply significant differences across treatments for a given soil depth, and the lowercase alphabets imply significant differences across the soil depths for a given treatment (P < 0.05). S.K. Kar et al. Geoderma Regional 32 (2023) e00616 11 tillage techniques for the North-West Himalayan region of India. The SR of MWD followed the trend Forest> ZT > RT > CT for all soil depth ratios. It suggests that conservation agriculture with minimal soil disturbance improves soil quality in terms of MWD compared to CT, as seen by SR. Compared to CT land uses, the SR of SOM was greater in the forest, and conservation agricultural land uses due to the continued build-up of higher SOM in the surface layer. The forest had the highest SOM among land uses, and CT had the lowest. In comparison to CT (41.33 ± 1.19 Mg ha−1) and CA (42.84 ± 0.27 Mg ha−1, ZT, and 41.41 ± 1.84 Mg ha−1, RT), forest (56.56 ± 1.90 Mg ha−1) had significantly higher SOC storage based on equivalent soil mass approach. Moreover, the SR of SOM was highly correlated with the SOM storage along the soil profile, making SR a reliable predictor of SOM storage. The higher CPI value for CA than CT contributed to higher SOC storage with deeper depth. Additionally, CA stratifies the distribution of SOM, promotes its surface storage, and subsequently sequesters more SOM into the soil. Our results suggest that CA may be a viable alternative for improving soil physicochemical parameters degraded due to CT. Considering these results, CA-based land management is advantageous for enhancing SOC and TN stocks in the soil profile, and they may be a suitable climate change adaptable agricultural strategy for the Himalayan region. Thus, the results of this study support our hypothesis that although the con­ version of native forest land to CT degrades soil health, by following CA practices, soil health will be progressively restored in the North-West Himalayan region. Further, SR should be recommended as a suitable indicator for determining the extent of soil degradation for various re­ gions with spatially heterogenous soil profiles. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors of this article declare that they have no conflict of interest. Data availability Data will be made available on request.