 Physical parameters (i) Seed size (small, medium, bold) (ii) Colour (red, amber, white) (iii) Hardness index (measured by SKCS) (iv) Grain appearance (scale 1-10) (v) Hecto litre weight (kg/hl) (vi) Yellow berry incidence in durum b. Nutritive/biochemical parameters (i) Protein content (%) (ii) ß-carotene content (%) (iii) Micronutrients (Fe, Zn, Cu, Mn) (iv) HMWGS (v) γ-gliadin in durum c. Processing quality (i) Flour recovery (%) (ii) Sedimentation value (iii) Water absorption capacity 18 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (iv) Falling number d. Product quality (i) Chapati- making quality (ii) Bread- making properties (iii) Biscuit- making quality (iv) Noodle/pasta -making properties Note: In case of durum, semolina recovery, ß-carotene content, prevalence of yellow berry and pasta- product quality are also to be recorded. 2. Characters on which data should to be recorded in the IVT (i) Yield (g/plot) (ii) Days to 75% heading (iii) Days to 75% spikes turning yellow (iv) Plant height (cm) (v) Threshability (easy, medium, hard) (vi) Straw strength (0-5 scale)/lodging (%) (vii) 1,000-grain weight (g) (viii) Seedling count per running metre (average of 5 observations) (ix) Number of ear-bearing tillers per running metre (average of 5 observations) (x) Plant stand at maturity (% visual score) (xi) Reactions to following diseases and insect-pests Diseases: Rusts (yellow, brown and black). In addition to field reaction in the trials and nurseries, information on the response to individual important races under the controlled conditions must also be studied. For Karnal bunt, loose smut, powdery mildew, leaf blight, all reaction to be recorded in national disease screening nurseries in addition to field reactions. Insect-pests: If there is incidence of termites, shoot- fly, brown mites, aphids, root aphids, recording needs to be done. (xii) Quality features such as grain size, colour, hardness index, appearance score, protein content, hecto-litre weight must be recorded. 3. Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I (i) Yield (g/plot) (ii) Days to 75% heading (iii) Days to 75% spikes turning yellow (iv) Plant height (cm) (v) Threshability (easy, medium, hard) (vi) Straw strength/lodging (%) (vii) 1000-grain weight (g) (viii) Seedling count per running metre (average of 5 observations) (ix) Number of ear-bearing tillers per running metre (average of 5 observations) (x) Plant stand at maturity (% visual score) (xi) Reactions to following diseases and insect-pests. Diseases: Rusts (yellow, brown, black) (to be supplemented with reactions in the national 19 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS pathological screening nurseries), Karnal bunt, loose smut, powdery mildew, leaf-blight and other minor diseases. Insects: Incidence of termites, shoot-fly, brown mites, aphids, root aphids may be recorded and supplemented with the reaction in the national entomological screening nurseries.