 When the leaves of the plant start falling, asci and ascospores are produced within perithecia and are protected until the following spring. A temperature of 30°C is favourable for maximum colony growth and acervuli production. Anthracnose in beans Source: CABI, Plantwise Plus Leaf rot In leaf rot, lesions are water soaking with various colours and shape formed on the appearing spindle and young leaves; thus the leaflet does not open fully. Central shoots are affected, and further, all the crown leaves get rotted. The lesions enlarge and fuse leading to extensive rot of spindle leaves. Rotting results in the decay of buds as it extends toward the interior of the spindle which further causes the yellowing of leaves. The pathogen survives as long as debris of the infected plant remains. The remaining debris lying on the soil is often the source for primary inoculation that infects other plants of upcoming seasons. High humidity and moisture (dew) on the leaves are needed for the pathogen to infect the host. Cercospora zeae-maydis is an atypical pathogen, whose conidia before penetration can grow and survive for many days. Powdery mildew Source: Department of Primary Industries and Regional Development temperature between 68 and 77°F and relative humidity between 40% and 100% are favourable for spore germination. Powdery mildew development is also favoured by low and diffuse light. The mildew spreads faster as the disease cycle can be finished in about 72 hours. Leaf yellowing P. pauciseptate and P. ramiseptata are the most aggressive species causing leaf yellowing in plants. Yellowing of leaves may be caused by manganese, zinc or nitrogen deficiencies. It is widely known as chlorosis. The yellow spot of disease, caused by Pyrenophora tritici-repentis, is a stubble-borne disease. The fungus survives on stubble in small fruiting black bodies, asci, from season to season. Leaf yellowing Source: Research Gate Leaf spot Source: Wikipedia Stem canker Stem canker is often confused with Phytophthora stem rot. Necrosis and interveinal foliar chlorosis may occur as a result of fungus producing toxins. These symptoms may be similar to those of sudden death syndrome and brown rot. Stem canker is noticed at the latter half of the growing season. During the early reproductive stages of plants, reddish-brown stem lesions appear which are in the portion of the stem node. The pathogen can survive in the residue of host or the soil for many years in the form of spores which act as the primary source. During rainy weather, spores are produced in the early vegetative stages which splash onto plant tissue causing infection. Indian Farming 17 February 2023 Downy mildew Downy mildew is caused by oomycete organism. It is spread by airborne spores. The infection is enhanced by prolonging wetness of leaf. Spore formation can occur within 4 days after the initial infection. However, the typical period for germination of spores is 7–10 days.