 to the nodal implementing agencies/departments/organizations/institutions for their effective implementation under intimation to the ICAR. Comments of concerned DDG are obtained on the feedback report and proceedings. The Subject Matter Divisions at ICAR also monitor the implementation of the key recommendations emanating from these events for their logical conclusion. This compendium includes key recommendations emanating from the national/ international seminars and conferences organized during the last 3 years (2017-18- 2019-20). The recommendations in the compendium are categorized under different heads. I sincerely hope the document will serve the purpose well and generate interest among researchers and policy planners alike. The guidance and encouragement provided by Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR and all the members of the ICAR standing committee are gratefully acknowledged. The painstaking efforts taken by the committee members; Dr. C S Prasad, Dr. Deva Kumar and Dr. B B Singh constituted by DG, ICAR for the purpose and the officers & staff of Technical Coordination unit are duly acknowledged. (S P Kimothi) Assistant Director General-Coordination  Contents Sl. No SMDs/ Divisions Nos. Page No Executive Summary 1 1. Crop Sciences CS1-CS26 13 2. Horticultural Science HS1-HS8 29 3. Natural Resource Management NRM1-NRM27 35 4. Animal Science AS1-AS25 51 5. Fisheries Science FS1-FS8 67 6. Agricultural Extension AEx1-AEx19 73 7. Economics Statistics & Marketing ESM1-ESM11 83 8. Agricultural Engineering AEg1-AEg11 89 9. Agricultural Education AEd1-AEd2 95  1 EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy and livelihood for a large section of rural masses. Its role in the industrial development is also no less important. The agricultural sector supplies raw materials to the agro-based industries like sugar, jute, cotton, ground-nut and oil seeds. It also directly and indirectly provides an enabling market environment for the industrial products. It is time and again tested that a rapid development of the economy depends on a smooth and sustained growth in the agricultural sector. The Indian agriculture is threatened by various adverse consequences and challenges imposed by climate variability. In future, droughts, floods cold snaps, untimely rains, and heat spells are likely to be more frequent and severe. Scientific efforts, in the face of expected climate change and burgeoning population, must continue to be in forefront in overcoming emerging plethora of challenges in the field of agriculture and allied sector. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, an apex body for conducting research, education and extension in the field of agriculture grants financial assistance to different registered scientific societies and academic institutions for organizing national/international seminars/ symposium/conferences in India to promote all round agricultural development in the country.