 The robot comprised mainly prime mover (chassis, drive wheels, caster wheel, upper body, gearbox and motors), controller (pixhawk 2.4.8) and sample collection unit. The soil sampling collection unit was design and fabricated to collect the samples automatically in the field. Media and information Media and Information Unit assists in press coverage and public relations showcasing the ICAR technologies through national and international exhibitions and production of documentary films. The Unit prepared and released advertisements through print and electronic media. During the year, four documentary films were produced namely ICAR Technologies, ICAR at a Glance, ICAR Achievements and C. Subramanium Convention Hall. About 51 exhibitions were conducted in different states which included Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Assam, Meghalaya, West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir and India International Trade Fair. These exhibitions were participated by 68 institutes of ICAR. The Information and Publicity Unit under DKMA took the initiative in preparation of Concept note on International Year of Millets 2023 for participation of ICAR through tableau in Republic Day Parade which has been accepted. ❑ Information, Communication and Publicity Services icar annual report 2022-23 183 17. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) are mandated for technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development under different farming situations across the country. During the reported year, 7 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs to 731 in the country. Besides lab to land activities for outreach, important programmes such as Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and Awareness creation on government schemes, etc. were taken up to address various challenges of engaging youth in agriculture, brining self-sufficiency in production of pulses and oilseeds, sustainable agriculture, etc. Technology Assessment Assessment of the location specificity of technologies developed by National Agricultural Research System under various agro-ecological situations is the core activity of KVKs. Technologies assessed under various crops, livestock, enterprises and women empowerment during the year are briefly presented below. Crops: A total of 6,198 technological options in various crops were assessed by the KVKs at 14,155 locations through implementation of 31,532 trials at farmers’ fields to provide technological alternatives to the identified problems across the country.