 With the launching of Operation Flood in 1970, one of the largest rural development programmes of the world, the milk production grew steadily at 6.4%, well above the global annual growth rate of 2.2%. The per capita availability of milk in the country has increased to about 400 g day-1 at present, which is much higher than world average of about 300 g day-1. Genetic improvement of livestock species has been carried out to increase milk yield, body growth and reproductive performance. Several breeds of cattle, goat, sheep, camel and poultry have been conserved in their original habitats as well as in the form of embryo, semen and DNA. Production of cloned buffalo calves has been carried out from dead progeny- tested buffalo bull and wild buffalo through inter-species cloning. Vaccines and diagnostics including H5N2 DIVA marker vaccine against avian influenza virus, sheep pox vaccine, VLP-based IBD vaccine for poultry, swine fever live attenuated vaccine, equine influenza vaccine for respiratory viral infections and brucella vaccine and thermo-tolerant type ‘O’ FMD vaccine have been developed for effective control of livestock diseases. For balanced animal nutrition, several feed formulations have been developed. ICAR has handled several dreaded livestock diseases due to diagnostics and vaccines developed at different institutes. A major contribution has been the eradication of Rinderpest disease, which was declared eradicated in 2011 from the country, making it the first animal disease to be eliminated in the history of mankind. Poultry is one of the fastest growing sub-sectors of agriculture with around 8% growth rate per annum, making India one of the world’s largest producers of egg and broiler meat. Currently, emphasis is given for the conservation and improvement of indigenous breeds. In 2020, for the first time in India, a gazette notification of 197 registered indigenous breeds were done and in 2021, three breeds of dogs were registered. Indian Agriculture after Independence 14 Detail achievements in livestock and poultry sectors are presented in Chapter 7 and in animal health in Chapter 10. 4.4. Fisheries The Blue Revolution has enhanced fish production making India the second largest fish producing country in the world. A genetically improved rohu called ‘Jayanti Rohu’ with 17% higher growth realization per generation was developed through systematic selective breeding and being cultivated commercially. Species diversification of freshwater aquaculture for over two dozens of important fish species such as carps, catfishes, other miscellaneous species and freshwater prawns has been successful including packages of practices of their breeding and seed production. Marine cage-culture has been used for farming high value fish species and provided technical support to install cages along the Indian coasts. Several value-added fish products, products of aquaculture importance and nutraceuticals from sea weeds have been developed.