 During the year 2019–20, AgIn helped transfer 52 technologies earning a gross revenue of ` 1.54 crore. Sectors of crop sciences (39%), dairy and veterinary sciences (32%), horticulture (23%) and fisheries (6%) contributed significantly in this endeavour of AgIn. Promotional activities Significant among these include: • Revamping AgIn’s website (www.agrinnovate. com); • Participation and presentation at VAIGA 2020- Sustainable Development through Agriprenuer- ship, Cochin, Kerala (January 2020) • Participated and presented on the activities and role of AgIn at the seminar organized by Atal Innovation Mission, at AIM Institute Chattarpur, New Delhi (Nov 2019) • Presented the activities of AgIn at CII’s Northern Region’s Conference on Innovations and Entrepreneurship in Agriculture, New Delhi (6 March 2020). International collaborations and linkages Agrinnovate India Limited facilitated the tech transfer and establishing an International linkage with Ms. Accrued Gains Pvt. Ltd., Republic of Botswana, by licensing—‘Banana Pseudostem sap for use as biofertiliser for crop productivity enhancement. The technology developed by Navsari Agricultural University (NAU), Gujarat was transferred through a commercial non-exclusive license for a period of five years (December 2019). PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 173 Agrinnovate India Limited (AgIn) collaborated with BIRAC in licensing out the Brucella Vaccine Technology (Brucella abortus S19$#Äper) for the control of bovine brucellosis developed by ICAR-IVRI, Bareilly, to Hester Biosciences Limited, Gujarat for a global market access for 15 years (September 2020) K — ujsUnz eksnh eSa bu —f"k foKku dsaæksa dks vkèkqfud —f"k ds u, ds rkSj ij ns[krk gwa A bu dsaæksa ls fudyk çdk'k] ns'k ds —f"k txr dks çdk'koku cuk,xk A fo'ks"kdj —f"k foKku dsaæ dk lcls egRoiw.kZ dke gS& fdlku rd uÃ rduhd] uÃ tkudkjh dks igqapkuk Lighthouse 18. Supporting Basic and Strategic Research The ‘National Agricultural Science Fund’ supports basic and strategic research in agriculture with an outlay of ` 164.5 crores during the period 2017–18 to 2019–20. The main objective of the scheme has been to build capacity for basic, strategic and cutting edge application research in agriculture and address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organizations/institutions.