 The benchmark publications of ICAR under Handbook series— Handbook of Agriculture and Handbook of Agricultural Extension are in process at different stages. Two Volumes of Handbook of Horticulture were released on the occasion of the Foundation Day of ICAR, i.e. 16 July 2019. The in-house faculty was also involved in conducting trainings on ‘Online article processing’, ‘Writing for Quality Research Journals’, ‘Role of Reviewer in Quality Research Journals’, ‘Book Writing’ and ‘Success Stories’. The ICAR web pages were revised and current news items were posted in web mode. Development of e-resources on agricultural knowledge and information for global exposure is done through http://www.icar.org.in and http://epub.icar.org.in/ ejournal. The Directorate has facilitated online access to 3,300 journals from a single subscription in more than 152 website institutions under CeRA. During the reporting period Business Unit has achieved the target of ` 69 lakh through sales of ICAR publications. Business Unit participated in major agricultural and science related events for distribution of ICAR publications and showcasing ICAR publications to agricultural community. Social media In order to disseminate information in real-time and also the last time, the ICAR website is updated on regular basis, and in total 1,320 pages were created, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 122 INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 123 and page-views 3,642,753 from more than 200 countries. Knowledge seekers from across the globe visited the website. The top five countries visiting the website include India, United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and Nepal. DARE website received GIGW certification in 2018. The website is updated regularly. E- Krishi Manch, a web based public utility, is a public-connect platform for stakeholders in more efficient, quick and simple manner by direct approach.On ICAR facebook total 254 posts were published and it has 185,145 followers. ICAR twitter handle https://twitter.com/icarindia has more than 60 thousand followers. On an average one tweet is posted every day, there are total 280 tweets. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has video films, animations, lectures/interviews by dignitaries and eminent scientists, proceedings of national and international events, etc. Some of the popular documentaries have received more than 250,000 views. Agricultural Knowledge Management Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit (AKMU) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research undertakes management and maintenance of ICT infrastructure which includes Gigabit-speed wired and wireless network in premises of ICAR at Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-1, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-2 and National Agricultural Science Centre Complex. An e-Publishing system developed and implemented in-house is hosted in secure network center of ICAR at KAB-1, Pusa Campus, New Delhi.