 yy Transport calves safely and comfortably in appropriate vehicles with adequate ventilation, bedding, and protection; do not pull calves by limbs, ears, tails, or necks; do not throw calves onto trucks. yy Calves should spend as short a time as possible in the journey. Ideally, they should move directly from the origin to their final destination. yy Management should be prepared (and calf caretakers trained) for : a) Handling cows having difficulties in calving. b) Observing time elapsed after calving (e.g., important for colostrum management) and time elapsed between calvings in any calving pen. c) Guaranteeing that calves have continual access to a source of freshwater or are watered at least twice a day or as necessary to maintain proper hydration. d) Guaranteeing that calves receive high-quality colostrum or colostrum replacer in a timely manner (identify the person responsible for checking colostrum quality, feeding colostrum, and saving excess colostrum). e) Guaranteeing that calves are given a palatable, high-quality starter ration offered within a week after birth. f) Monitoring calves at least twice daily and recording their health status. g) Maintaining daily records of the calves’ health and any medication used (dosage, duration of treatment, route of administration, compatibility of medications, and withdrawal times) under supervision of a qualified veterinarian. h) Handling calves gently and firmly. Biosecurity Biosecurity is an important tool for maintaining animal health. Biosecurity procedures are meant to control and avoid the introduction of new infectious 30 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS agents into the herd as well as to keep the spread of any diseases within the gaushala at a minimum level. Protocol for ensuring biosecurity yy The gaushala should be enclosed by wall, fences or natural vegetation to limit the entry of disease carrying animals. yy Strictly control the entry of people and maintain an appropriate hygiene barrier around the gaushala, e.g. foot baths at entry/exit points, and clean clothes/overalls and boots/shoes for visitors. yy Strictly maintain a hygienic environment, for example by disinfecting vehicles and equipment as they enter the farm if they have been exposed to other farm animals, and when they leave. yy New animals should be checked for tuberculosis, Johne’s disease and brucellosis. yy Isolate all new animals for a sufficient period (minimum 30 days) before allowing full entry into the herd and contact with other animals. yy Animals from different physiological stages or ages should be kept in separate paddocks or units and should have separate management strategies. yy Dead animals should be removed immediately and disposed of in a sanitary manner to avoid the risk of spreading infection. 31 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS A clean shelter increases the comfort level of animals and has a positive impact on the health of the animal.