 The major vaccines/ vaccine candidates included (i) H5N2DIVA marker vaccine against avian influenza virus (ii) Sheep pox vaccine (Srinagar strain); (iii) Gumboro vaccine (VLP based) for infectious bursal disease (IBD) in poultry; (iv) Classical Swine Fever live attenuated vaccine; (v) Heat tolerant type ‘O’ FMD vaccine candidate; and (vi) Brucella abortus mutant vaccine. DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 28 Diagnostic kits for Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome (PRRS) virus antibody and avian influenza antibody detection, anti- structural FMD virus antibodies; monoclonal antibody-based ELISA kit for Brucella infection in bovines Japanese encephalitis; IgM ELISA kit for JE antibodies in pigs , etc developed. A urinary metabolite-based pregnancy detection kit; Preg-D for pregnancy detection in cows and buffaloes; and a peptide-based immunoassay for early pregnancy diagnosis in goats were developed. Developed an anti-methanogenic supplement (Harit Dhara) with Tamarind seed husk. Supplementing ruminant’s diet up to 5% with Harit Dhara can reduce methane emission by 18-20% without any adverse impact. Harit Dhara is an ionic mishran effective for the prevention of hypocalcemia, minimizing the occurrence of milk fever and other similar metabolic disorders and increases milk fat by 0.4-0.5 units, and also helps in ameliorating reproductive disorder as the animals. BUFCOL-A, a patented complete diet formulation for enhanced survivability & growth of neonatal buffalo calves was developed at NDRI Karnal and CIRB, Hisar. Specific mineral mixture for breeding bulls (Bullmin) developed for better quality of semen production. Seven alternate feed resources and 9 feed additives were developed for poultry. ICAR-NIHSAD-Avian influenza detection kit ICAR-DFMD-Anti-FMD Structural Antibody Detection Kit ICAR-CIRB-Pregnancy Detection Kit for Cow & Buffalo DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 29 Using simplified handmade cloning technology, several cloned buffaloes were produced. Recently, production of 7 copies of elite buffalo bull of Murrah bull No. M-29 and 1 re-cloning pregnancy of Hisar Gaurav (normal fertility 55%) were achieved. Currently, 12 live parentage tested progenies of Hisar Gaurav are available. Fertility of cloned bulls similar to non-cloned bulls, and so far produced > 60 progenies using cloned bull’s semen. Developed 7 paper strip based tests for rapid detection of common adulterants in milk at NDRI viz., neutralizers, salt, glucose, maltodextrin, added urea sucrose and hydrogen peroxide. This is a rapid (10 mts), simple and cost-effective assay. The technology has been commercialized. A qualitative rapid and highly sensitive test developed at NDRI, Karnal and patented for detection of detergent in milk. This kit is highly sensitive and cam detect the level of adulteration as low as 20 mg/100 ml of milk. The results become available in 2 minutes.