5 t/ha or FYM Indian Farming 51 January 2025 @ 10 t/ha + poultry manure @ 2.5 t/ha along with the Azotobacter and PSB yield comparable to conventional inorganic system in tomato, cabbage, pea, cowpea and okra. Suitable cropping system Under vegetable based cropping system with assured irrigation, capsicum-French bean-pea; tomato-okra- broccoli; tomato-okra-cabbage; tomato-okra-toria and tomato-okra-pea has been found economical with 300% cropping intensity. This vegetable based cropping system has income potential of ` 63-87/sq. m. Water harvesting and use of modern irrigation system The rain water harvesting, in situ moisture conservation, reduction in seepage losses by use of lining materials, improvement in conveyance efficiency of irrigation channels, scheduling of irrigation (root zone), change in crop establishment and management practices by crop geometry, adjusting crop growth period and multiple use of irrigation water etc. increases the water-use efficiency. The channel system of irrigation (water saving 30-50%) in sandy soils is most practicable for cucurbits, brinjal, tomato, chilli and beans, which reduces manure and fertilizers (30-35%) and labour cost (25-30%). Morever, it is highly suitable for climate- resilient tuber crops like sweet potato, colocasia, tapioca etc. In arid climate, a short-spell of moisture deficit (3-7 days) affects the plant growth, flowering, fruit set, marketable quality and yield. Therefore, controlled techniques like bubbler or hose-pipe up to crop–field for channel or deep furrow and pressurized (drip and sprinkler, increase yield of 15-50%) must be used as they save 30-40% water and maintains crop rhizosphere almost at field capacity so that the plants do not experience moisture stress. The single lateral line (14- 16 mm) at 2.0 m distance with in-line drippers (14 Lph) at 50 cm distance is most appropriate for kachari, snap melon, round melon, long melon, mateera, muskmelon, bottle gourd, sponge gourd and ridge gourd. Similarly, with a trellis system of crop cultivation, the laterals at 2.0 m and drippers at 50 cm distance is useful for Indian bean, sword bean, ivy gourd, and bitter gourd. Drip technology also give excellent results in brinjal, tomato, cowpea and cabbage (laterals at 1.0 m apart and drippers at 50 cm). Use of solar energy for running drip and sprinkler will be beneficial. Straw mulch before sowing the seeds or sowing of crops to cover land spaces, conserve the moisture and limits the weeds. In hilly area, highest marketable head yield (22.75 t/ha) in broccoli with hybrid ‘Pushpa’ using dry weed biomass mulch of Eupatorium and Ambrosia spp. @ 1 kg/m2 as well as black polythene over traditional practices. Post-harvest management Fresh vegetables account up to 95% of moisture which determines useful quality traits like weight, sheen and texture in one way but high moisture content also make products susceptible to drying and microbial attack.