 Finger millet is very rich in calcium and is beneficial for improving bone health and prevention of osteoporosis in elderly. Apart from well known nutrients, millets are a rich source of phytochemicals like polyphenols and anthocyanins with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties useful for preventing chronic lifestyle disorders. Regular consumption of millets not only diversifies the diet but, also imparts many health benefits. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: venkat@millets.res.in Indian Farming 94 January 2023 Pop sorghum KBRS Visarada*, C Aruna, M Elangovan, Jinu Jacob and C Ratnavathi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Sorghum is a multipurpose crop and its use as food is the key component. Rotis and cooked sorghum are primary consumption patterns, while there are other foods and snacks locally popular in India. One such delicacy is the sorghum pops, as described in this article. Popped sorghum is easy for digestion and is used as weaning food. Sorghum pops are traditionally made with elaborate procedure of soaking, shade drying and popping in pans. In this article, sorghum popping was tested using popcorn maker, a small device that can be purchased with a low cost. The advantage of this procedure is that this pop-maker can be used to pop a handful of seeds and it takes 2–3 min only for the same. It can be explored as an additional income source. There are many varieties released for popping, e.g. Phule Panchami (RPOSV-3), Pop11 and other lines in pop series. Advanced lines having high popping and high yield through breeding efforts are in the pipeline. Keywords: Low phytic acid, Pop percentage, Pop volume, Sorghum snacks S ORGHUM grain is consumed in the form of food and snacks in many parts of India. Roti and cooked grain are the most popular forms of food preparations, nevertheless, many other products for snacks and tiffins are available in different parts of India. Among them, popped sorghum is a kind that is used as weaning food and snack, which can be explored and popularized. Popped sorghum is fluffy white flower like structure which resembles popcorn, but is smaller in size. Sorghum pops are crispy, tasty with a pleasant fragrance that makes them tastier. Sorghum pops are low in calories and fat, gluten-free and completely devoid of hull. Because of their easy digestibility, sorghum pops are used as weaning food and for feeding the old recovering patients. Sorghum grain is recommended for celiac patients as it is gluten free. Popping treatment reduces phytic acid content in the grain and thus, improves starch digestibility. Sorghum pops do not have bran like rice pops and it makes them easy and ready for use. Pop sorghum Sorghum grains are popped and made to flour. They are made to laddus with jaggery and consumed during Tholi ekadasi (July) in Telugu speaking states. Karnataka state is popular for making sorghum pops.