 In this study, AHP is used to estimate the weight of all relevant parameters that inﬂuence the potential of groundwater recharge in the study region. AHP implies an assessment of the signiﬁcance be- tween the parameters, the normalization, and calculating the con- sistency ratio (CR). It is agreed that the priority of the inﬂuencing variables acknowledges the relevance of the characteristics at var- ious levels of the hierarchy, depending on the hierarchical order formed. To obtain qualitative data, the factors that inﬂuence each level are compared in pairs. The Saaty scale from 1 to 9 ( Table 1 ) is used to measure the relative importance of the factor ( Saaty, 2008 ). 5. Normalization of weights an assignment AHP for choice creating includes breaking down a problem into various criteria, bringing them together in a multi-leveled frame- work, agreeing on the general value of sets of parts, and mixing the outcomes ( Saaty, 1990 ). Each thematic map has more than ﬁve classes, indicating that the relationships between these con- nected classes are far too complicated. To determine the various groupings, the link between these ten thematic levels was con- structed using AHP. They have included movement with advance- ments to the method for establishing the weights for thematic maps, and they are looking at groups independently using AHP ( Schwilch et al., 2011 ; Zolekar and Bhagat, 2015 ). 6. Pairwise comparison matrix According to Saaty (1990) , A diagonal matrix was prepared by placing the values in the upper triangle and their reciprocal val- ues are used to ﬁll the triangular matrix. Expert’s judgment was used for PCM. In addition, the relative weights were normalized. This fundamental eigenvalue is used to degree the consistency of ideas through an analysis of the consistency ratio (CR). ACR values lower than 0.1 can be considered as opinions with less uncertainty in weight determination. The Consistency Index (CI) is calculated using the equations ( Eq. 1 ) and the comparison matrix ( Table 3 ) to compare all parameters for calculating CR. CI = λmax −−n/n −−1 (1) where, λ max = average number of consistency vectors and n = number of criteria. The CR has been computed using Eq. (2) CR = CI/RCI (2) where, RCI = random consistency index, provided by Saaty (2008) . 7. Land suitability analysis 7.1. Highly suitable For farming operations, ﬁeld signatures were utilized to give scores to sub-criteria groups. Land with average to high slopes and dense soil cover is more suited. The FAO deﬁnition was employed in the present attempts for the LSA research, and it was initiated that 26.55 percent of the land is “highly suitable” for agriculture and plantation. Gentle slopes (0 to 5%), fallow land, and vegeta- tion cover lands contributions are important for plantations ( Fig. 5 ; Table 4 ). If irrigation infrastructure and the necessary economic as- sistance are provided, this sort of fallow lands can be transformed into agricultural areas.