 However, under prolonged and severe stress conditions, stomatal movement imposes a huge limitation on gaseous exchange which in turn impacts both the primary and the secondary metabolism adversely, resulting in poor quality with significant biological yield loss. This is because during mild or initial stress condition, the photosystems are not permanently damaged and secondary metabolisms are the preferred sink for phosynthates as compared to the control conditions. Under severe stress conditions, the photosystems are permanently damaged causing reduced input of photo energy under the vicinity of scarcity of intracellular CO2 ultimately severely compromising biological yield that cannot compensate for the increase in the active ingredients (Fig. 1). Recently in a comparative transcriptome study involving two diverse genotypes of G. sylvestre DGS 3 and DGS 22, five main pathways related to the photosynthesis were investigated and 123 genes were identified. The pathway leading to the biosynthesis of porphyrin and Fig. 1. Comparison of fate of absorbed light in plants under optimum and stress condition. PAR is photosynthetically active radiation, Chl Flr is chlorophyll fluorescence, NPQ is non- photochemical quenching, NADP is nicotinamide-adenine dinucleotide phosphate, ET* is ethylene, CK is cytokinins (physiological concentrations), AUX is auxin (physiological concentrations), NPC is other normal physiological conditions (absence of stress), WDS is water deficit stress, HT is high temperature, CLA is constant light absorption, HWV is high wind velocity, ABA is abscisic acid, JA is jasmonates, BR is brassinosteroids, CK implies cytokinins at high concentration, AUX implies auxin at high concentration, PHPB is exposure to plant and human pathogenic bacteria, WMIH implies wounding; mechanical; insect; herbivores. Source: Kalariya K A et al. (2021). Stomatal development and impact of stomatal movement on secondary metabolism in medicinal plants. JSM Environ Sci Ecol 9(1): 1074. Indian Horticulture 34 Research Yellow bleeding heart: A widely used hypotensive and hypoglycemic medicinal plant of North-east India Dactylicapnos scandens (D. Don) Hutch (Syn. Dicentra scandens (D. Don) Walp.), is a perennial scandent herb that belongs to the family Fumariaceae. It has horizontal tubers with a network of fibrous roots, and yellow heart-shaped blooms. It can be found in the Central and Eastern Himalayan regions. The plants feature four petals, two of which are actinomorphic whorls that are located opposite each of the outer petals. Ovary is superior, unilocular, bicarpellate, narrowly linear to broadly ovate-oblong in form, with parietal placentation and thin style. Fruit is an indehiscent, fleshy capsule that is ovate to oblong in shape, pale yellow-white when young, and turns reddish. Corydine, isocorydine, protopin, aporphine alkaloids, glaucine and isocorydine are the chemical compounds present in the plant.