 Synthetic anti-microbial peptide hydrogels for bovine mastitis: The lead antimicrobial peptide (AMP) molecule identified from insect secretions was chemically synthesized and initially tested for its activity against ESKAPE bacteria to determine the MIC and MBC. Stability at different temperatures, in presence of salts and serum, toxicity in Galleria melonella larvae, mammalian cells and haemolytic activity in RBCs of different species were determined in vitro prior to therapeutic evaluation in lactating Balb-c mice challenged with virulent Staphylococcus aureus isolate. The mice were euthanized 24 h after S. aureus inoculation, and mammary glands were aseptically collected for determining CFU/gland and for quantitation of pro- inflammatory cytokines using real-time PCR. It was observed that there was significant reduction in the bacterial load per gland in the AMP and antibiotic treated groups as compared to infected glands treated with sterile PBS. Further, there was significant reduction in expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL-10, IL-1, IFN-Y, iNOS, TNF- and TGF-) in comparison to mouse infected with bacteria and treated with sterile PBS. The results of SAMAMP-1 treatment of infected mouse mammary gland were comparable with the standard antibiotic treatment group. Further, histopathological analyses showed that S. aureus - induced inflammatory cell infiltration, mammary alveoli thickening and edema were significantly reduced by treatment of AMP and standard antibiotic. Thus, this lead AMP can be a promising molecule for treatment of bacterial mastitis, especially caused by S. aureus. Further studies in bovine mastitis cases are being taken up for therapeutic evaluation of the lead compound. SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 155 Biological filter for safe wastewater irrigation: Out of 22 isolates screened for cadmium and chromium absorption, 3 highly potential mutually compatible strains were selected and grown in nutrient media supplemented with different concentrations of cadmium and chromium. Analyses of these samples revealed that the microbes were tolerant to both the metals in 20 ppm and absorbed the heavy metals provided to them during their growth. Analysis revealed that the above strains IIWM-DW-02E (1420 bases), IIWM-DW-03H (1414 bases) and IIWM- DS-01O (1432 bases) were 99.93% similar to Pseudomonas aeruginosa, 99.86% similar to Actinobater baumannii and 100% similar to Bacillus cereus respectively. The microbial isolates were also immobilized in variable concentrations of calcium alginate to entrap them so that they would not mix with the flowing water when used in the filter. Shearing test of the beads in distilled water with magnetic stirrer at a constant speed revealed that maximum shearing was seen in beads prepared with 0.25% alginate followed by 0.5% which was around 1 h and 3 h, respectively, while the beads prepared with 1% alginate started shearing from the 24th hour.