 The scientific information provided in the Chapters is a result of efforts made by the scientists and other associated staff of Institutes and AICRPs under ICAR. The authors gratefully acknowledge their contributions. The compilation gives us hope and confidence that ICAR is on the track to realize the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi about rural livelihood and nutritional security. In the course of preparing the book, the authors and editors have received help and support from different individuals. We are extremely grateful to each one of them. The editors take this opportunity to express their gratitude to all the authors for developing the chapters in a comprehensive manner. We sincerely thank Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj; and Hon’ble Minister of State of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Govt. of India for their guidance and support in bringing out this publication. We are thankful to the ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, New Delhi for its kind support and guidance; and Mr. Sunil Kumar Sinha, ICAR- NRRI, Cuttack for formatting and developing cover page of the publication. We hope that the publication would be useful to the researchers, teachers, policy makers, planners, administrators, farmers and students of agriculture. Editors xiii contents Foreword vii Preface ix Acknowledgements xi 1. Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: 1 Role of ICAR Innovations Trilochan Mohapatra, Sanjay Singh and Suresh Pal 2. Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 14 AK Singh, S Sriram, ES Rao, Santosh Eapen and MR Dinesh 3. Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 27 BN Tripathi, MS Chauhan, A Mukherjee, VK Saxena and V Bhasin 4. Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood 39 BN Tripathi, Ashok Kumar, AK Dixit, B Rai and VK Saxena 5. Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 48 JK Jena, PC Das and A Panigrahi 6. Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 60 TR Sharma, Kuldeep Singh, K Gupta, N Sivaraj and John K Joseph 7. Local Interventions in Natural Resources Management for Global Gains: 74 Gandhian Principles SK Chaudhari, S Bhaskar and A Islam 8. Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 86 AS Panwar, N Ravisankar, SK Sharma and G Suja 9. Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 97 H Pathak, M Shahid, Neeraj Kumar, N Jain and Jagadish Rane 10. Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhiji’s Thoughts 107 CR Mehta, S Gangil, R Naik and SK Giri 11. Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 119 Vilas A Tonapi, Nepolean Thirunavukkarasu, Lakshmi Kant and K Haiprasanna 12. Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 131 Ch. Srinivasarao, P Krishnan and V Ragupathy xiv 13. Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 144 RC Agrawal, G Venkateshwarlu and PS Pandey 14.