in) was developed as a single window platform for providing vital education information/announcements/ event schedules/e-learning resources from Agricultural Universities across the country in an easy and fast way. In addition, the complete information about accreditation of agricultural universities, the list of accredited universities is available on the portal. The portal also helps in management, monitoring and promoting activities/schemes of Education Division, ICAR. Various functionalities, viz. state wise, university wise and college wise information is available. The proposals/ demands of all the sub schemes of the Agricultural Education Division, reports/ Student Unique Identification Number (UID) is generated on this portal. At present, UID has been generated for 1,16,855 students covering 72 AUs. The portal is a major source of information for providing details of various sub schemes being operated in agricultural education, their guidelines, information about various courses being offered by different agricultural universities. The platform provided information about various scholarships/ fellowships of ICAR, available for national and international admission at UG, PG, Ph.D. and post doctoral level. Direct benefit transfer The Direct benefit transfer (DBT) for 20 DARE/ ICAR components under various schemes is being done. During the year, data of 15,778 beneficiaries who were given ` 816,333,865 under the different components were uploaded on the portal. Regular meetings are being conducted to sensitize all the stakeholders for data updation on the DBT portal. The DBT MIS was developed (in house) by the DBT Cell (DARE) and IASRI, New Delhi (https:// dbtdare.icar.gov.in). Presently all data are transferred from the DBT DARE portal (https://dbtbharat.gov.in) to the DBT Bharat portal automatically through web service at a fixed date every month. A user manual was developed for data updation on the portal and is available at https://dbtdare.icar.gov.in/Files/ DBT_manual.pdf. DBT related OMs are also placed at the website at -https://dbtdare.icar.gov.in/Files/ DBT_OM.pdf. The Aadhar notification under section- 7 of the Aadhar act was processed for the eligible components and it will be published in the official gazette very shortly. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 106 training and capacity building, organization of seminars and workshops, industry interactions and student employments, creation of central instrumentation facilities, and improvements of campus social amenities and student well-being. Three new facilitative units (IIIC- Industry Institution Interaction Cell / Start up cell / incubation cell / experiential learning unit / placement cell etc.) for strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure have been established. Students from 19 participating AUs and faculty members were sent for overseas training.