 Although the contribution of agriculture to national GDP is decreasing over the years, it is important that the growth of other sectors and overall economy depends on the performance of agriculture to a considerable extent. Because of these reasons agriculture continues to be a dominant sector in the Indian Economy. The post-Independence journey of Indian agriculture has been quite impressive despite several limiting factors such as uncertainties of weather, declining soil health, increasing atmospheric temperature and emergence of more virulent pests and pathogens. Technological advancements in agriculture have been influential in driving changes in the farm sector. Although the amount of land and labour used in farming declined, the total farm output increased more than 5 times between 1950–51 and 2020. Similarly, the yield (kg/ha) has increased about four times during the same period. ICAR has focused on different aspects of Agricultural Research such as food security and supply; food, nutrition and human health promotion and next-generation food system; climate and energy needs; sustainable use of natural resources; food safety; small business innovation and product development; and agricultural education and workforce development. ICAR has played a major role in promoting excellence in higher education in agriculture and coordinating education in all state agricultural universities and central agricultural universities. ICAR vigorously pursued the deployment of digital platforms in agriculture and the application of ICT for farmers’ empowerment. The digital revolution has opened new windows for Indian farmers. Technologies like precision agriculture, e- extension, drone-led operations, smart warehousing and transport optimization, real-time yield estimation and price information, credit and insurance management and e- marketing have proven their applicability in making agriculture predictable and profitable. Soil and water management for sustainable yield: The digital soil mapping framework has been developed using AVIRIS-NG Hyper spectral data, STRM data (30 m), and Sentinel-2 data, and prepared Geo-referenced desertification map of Rajasthan (1 : 500,000 scale) using Indian remote sensing satellite images (IRS-AWiFs), mapping of groundwater potential zones and identification of recharge structures in hard rock areas. Granular minerals fertilizer was developed as an alternative to conventional P and K fertilizer, mechanized technique for seed coating of biofertilizer and a soil biological health kit. Besides, a mini pan evaporimeter for on-farm irrigation scheduling, cut- soiler technology for reclamation of saline soils and a bio- consortia for enhancing the productivity of agri-horticultural crops were standardized. CSR GROW-SURE, a unique bio-stimulant comprising highly efficient salt tolerant bacteria was developed. The formulation was tested for growth and yield parameters in tomato, and banana cultivated in sodic soils of pH 9.14– 9.