 • The effectiveness of the models has been checked using ROC and Accuracy estimation. It is revealed that the applied models are more or less strongly effective in potentiality analysis as the FCOPRAS and Random Forest approaches are more effective than other applied techniques. • From the study, it is found that about 10–19 per cent of the total area is the least potential for agriculture and about 14–23 per cent of the area is the most potential for agriculture. • This research will also help governments and non-governmental organisations in the region implement development plans and manage agricultural land. 8. Conclusion Several distinct variables were chosen to assess land potential as­ sessments, with scales ranging from nominal to ratio. The soil appro­ priateness of the research region was evaluated using a GIS-based multi- criteria decision-making technique and machine learning algorithms (Random Forest, Multilayer Perceptron) in this study. In this accept­ ability analysis, the AHP approach was utilised to assign relative weight to the fifteen different criteria, and thereafter the FCOPRAS model was applied using a normalised pairwise comparison matrix from AHP. The machine learning algorithms were applied using field data in the Weka software. Because it is a time-saving strategy, the “GIS” technique has been used to “Obtain the result,” “Investigate the result,” and “Analyse the data.” The continuous, complicated, and uncertain information is Fig. 5. Validation of the results applying ROC. S. Saha and P. Mondal Artificial Intelligence in Geosciences 3 (2022) 179–191 189 represented in a simple, categorised map manner via GIS-based land potential analysis. According to the findings, the area is an appropriate agricultural region. The main factors are optimum organic carbon con­ tent, low bulk density, optimum soil pH, and cation exchange capability, which are behind the high potential. The primary causes of less pro­ ductive areas are sluggish soil quality, lack of soil moisture, and so on. Although this location is naturally rich, there is a threat of crop devas­ tation because of flooding during the rainy season. From the validity estimation, it is found that FCOPRAS and RF techniques are more pro­ ficient with 91.9 per cent and 92.0 per cent respectively. Farming can have a big impact on the environment. Even though the negative effects are serious and can include pollution and the degradation of soil, water, and air, agriculture can also have positive effects on the environment. For example, crops and soils can trap greenhouse gases. This suitability analysis helps the government instruct farmers on how to choose the best place for farming to preserve the environment. Government au­ thorities should take steps to strengthen flood forecasting systems, flood management measures, marketing facilities, transportation, and soil management to minimise damage and promote growth in this area.