 Verma (1998) 502 Treatment of skin diseases by devdar (Cedrus deodara) in sheep and goat Oil extracted from the wood is used to treat a skin disease of sheep and goats known as makku disease; also used to cure the demodetic scabis disease (Central Himalayas of India). Maikhuri et al.(2000) 503 Skin care Preparations from amarvel or Cuscuta reflexa are used to alleviate swelling and skin infection in humans and animals. Animals sustaining injuries and suffering from internal swelling can be given relief using this plant. The plant is thoroughly dried and burnt in such a way that the smoke is directed towards the face of the animal. It gives relief from swelling. According to Dipak Kumar, the entire plant should Kaur (1998b) 267 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference be boiled in water and the filtered brew used to wash and massage the legs of people suffering from swelling and pain. The filtered brew also gives relief from pain caused by dislocation of bones. Taking a bath after adding juice extract of amarvel to the water alleviates skin allergy. Directing the vapour of boiling amarvel, gaandhala (Murraya koenigii) and nirgandhi towards the body opens the pores of the body and facilitates normal sweating (Una, Himachal Pradesh). 504 Treatment of skin disease Cattle often suffer from skin diseases characterized by hair loss and rough, hard skin. A paste is prepared by adding water to the scrapings of the inner portion of the bark of Baval (Acacia nilotica). Application of this to the affected area is continued for 7-10 days. This method has been widely used in this region for many years (Rena, Shahera). Lilabhai (1993) 505 Treatment of voils on cattle skin Seeds of Croton tiglium are crushed in curd and the paste is applied on the skin of cattle suffering from voils, five hours after the application it can be washed off (Bangalore, Karnataka). Hemawati (2000) 506 Oil of oil engine for treatment of skin disease Spent engine oil is boiled and sprayed over the skin for controlling skin disease of animals. This practice is followed for the last 20-25 years. This skin disease is locally known as Lihvo (The boiled engine oil has acaricidal action and cures skin diseases only if it is caused by mange (Paniyala). Chawda (1992) 507 To prevent abortion Farmers believe that animals abort during early pregnancy because of their internal body heat. To prevent this, the leaves of kanthi ( Limonia acidissima) are crushed and mixed with sugar and given to the animal . One dose of 500 g of leaves, 200 g sugar and one litre of water is given daily. The treatment is started after the first signs of pregnancy are noticed and continued for 21 days continuously kanthi is a plant available throughout the year in common lands and grasslands in arid regions. It bears small leaves, similar to henna leaves, and has a hardcoated fruit which is considered to be very nutritious.