    Dr. S. L. Goswami, Director, NAARM informed that Education System Management Division has been started at NAARM and acapsule programme in outreach mode for newly recruited faculty has been initiated. The Universities may nominate the faculty for training.    Dr. A.R. Pathak, V.C., NAU, Navsari raised issues of unfilled positions in KVKs and stressed the need for national level training for newly recruited faculties.    Dr. A.K. Mishra, VC, MAFSU, Nagpur requested ICAR to identify 5-10 Universities and set targets/schemes to be fulfilled with full support and monitoring of ICAR in particular University to be developed as a model, and the Universities can reach the peak in shortest time.    Dr. L.N. Harsh, VC, AU, Jodhpur, urged that courses should be structured in such a way that the students turn into job providers instead of job seekers.    Dr H.S. Gupta, VC & Director, IARI, New Delhi, emphasized the need to fill up vacant posts and use the services of retired scientists to address faculty shortage.  6  Dr. S.N. Puri, VC, CAU, Imphal was of the opinion that some issues like attracting and retaining youth in agriculture, mechanization of small farms, provision of marketing facilities and market intelligence services need attention.    The agenda items were taken as outlined below:  Agenda 1:Confirmation of the proceedings of the last Annual Conference held on February 19-20, 2013 Since no comment on the proceedings were received, the proceedings of the last VC Conference held in February, 2013 were confirmed. Agenda 2: Action taken report on the proceedings of the last Annual Conference held in February 19-20, 2013 Dr. Pradeep K. Sharma, ADG (EPD) presented the Action Taken Report. The compliance report submitted by the universities was included in the ATR. The Action Taken Report was presented by ADG (EPD) and was accepted after discussion. Regarding Agenda item no. 8.3 it was suggested by the GB member Shri Sudhir Kumar, that Dean’s Committee may debate on the issue of nomenclature of Bachelor Degree of Home Sciences, and submit the report. [Action: President Dean’s Committee] For Agenda item no. 8.6.9 regarding enhancement of State limit for student admission from 40 to 60 % .A committee was constituted to look into the issue, comprising of following members: Dr B. Ashok, VC, KVASU-Chairman; Dr. S.B. Dandin, VC, VHS, Bhagalkot-Member and Dr. B.S. Dhillon, VC, PAU, Ludhiana-Member. [Action: ADG (HRD)] To avoid the difficulties, faced by the students from Africa and Afghanistan, it was agreed to initiate a six month English proficiency course at the level of AUs. Depending upon proficiency, one extra semester can be taken up by students. The modalities need to be worked out in consultation with DARE/MEA. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 3: Agenda from EPD Agenda 3.1: Development grant: Effective utilization and other related issues Dr. Pradeep K.