 Siltation due to jhum cultivation, deforestation, unscientific land use is also contributing towards the low productivity from natural resources. Poor adoption of technology: One of the most important constraints that lead to poor unit area productivity in the state is due to poor adoption of modern fish farming technology as a result of inadequate extension support. The state fisheries departments are facing the problem of shortage of technical staff 384 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 for extension work. Poor adoption can also be attributed to illiteracy of farmers. Further as the rural farm families cannot afford the input cost adoption of technology becomes a problem with the existing difficulty in availing credit facilities. In addition, lack of entrepreneurship has been one of most reason in the state for not taking up fish culture on large scale. The farmers are also facing vulnerability to risk involved such as- floods, droughts, theft, etc. Non availability of inputs: • In adequate availability of critical quality farm inputs such as quality seeds and cost effective feeds is a major concern in the state that hinder the development of aquaculture. • Lack of scientific knowledge on fish culture Although the modern fish farming technologies are available maximum of the farmers from the state still follow traditional fish culture practice with no management strategies adopted during the culture. Farmers do not have knowledge on scientific management procedure and do not follow scientific pond preparation steps, right species combination, stocking density etc which has led to the low productivity and overall production of fish from the state. Lack of reliable database on resource availability: The state Mizoram is blessed with rich fish diversity and other natural resources. There have been several reports on discovery of new species from the region in the recent past, indicating inadequate information on reliable database on the diversity of fishes in the rivers of the state which poses hindrance in planning strategies for conservation and propagation of important fishes of the state. 19.2 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income Crop production sector: Strategy Action Plan Enhancing crop production Reshuffle the activity nods of current seed supply chain at ground level, for timely and efficient supply of hybrid seeds/ high yielding variety seeds/ planting materials to the farmers under different state sponsored projects. Construct the suitable infrastructure (Community water reserve tanks, village level check dams to ensure the agricultural water supply, efficient pumps/ delivery pipes, drip system, sprinklers etc) to increase the water application efficiency with ensure sufficient irrigation water supply to the farmers preferably during rabi season.