 Soil -organic carbon sequestration rate was positive in tillage and residue treatments with the highest rate in zero tillage, but sequestration rate was negative in conventional tillage with no residues. Temperature-based phenology model, developed for mango fruitfly using temperature change projections for the year 2050, indicated that at least a certain proportion of Bactrocera zonata population can establish and survive throughout the year. Hence, wide area management strategies are advised to restrict or slow down its incidence and population dynamics. Assessment of green house gases (GHGs) emission from dairy farms, indicated that supplementation of combination of saponins, and condensed and hydrolysable tannins effectively reduced methane production in cattle. Addition of aspirin may partially ameliorate the adverse effects of high ambient temperature on growth, feed conversion and immunity in poultry. Estimation of emission of greenhouse gases from prawn (Penaeus monodon and Penaeus vannamei) and fish (catla and rohu) culture ponds revealed higher average emission of all GHGs in fish culture ponds compared to shrimp culture ponds. Aquaculture ponds acted as sink during low temperature conditions and rainy days. Changes in environmental parameters, viz. salinity, nutrient cycling, plankton and macro-zoo- benthos abundance, etc. have triggered changes in fin- fish and shell-fish diversities in the Sundarban estuary. Though, there is an increase in total fish landings from around 7,431.59 tonnes during 2009-10 to about 11,962.52 tonnes in 2015-16, the catch compositions indicated a gradual replacement of commercially important species by relatively low priced fish species. Genetic resources: Seventeen explorations were undertaken and 1,115 accessions, including 531 of wild species were added to the germplasm collection. Herbarium specimens, 387, were added to the National Herbarium of Cultivated Plants. In the National Gene bank, germplasm for long-term storage comprised 10,224 accessions of orthodox seed species; along with cryopreservation of 14 shoot tips/ meristems of vegetatively propagated species and 14 accessions in the in vitro Gene bank. A total of 31,110 accessions were imported from 39 countries; the promising introductions were rice accessions having high yield (EC881897-903), and salinity (EC881904-1905) and submergence tolerance (EC881906 and EC887557) from the Philippines, and wheat with heat tolerance from the USA. Large scale studies involving characterization and evaluation of more than 18,601 accessions of wheat and rice for terminal heat and drought tolerance were completed leading to identification of 472 rice genotypes/lines as moderately resistant to biotic and abiotic stresses.