 It is common and special in North Goa, where small and marginal farmers go for this type of cultivation. At the foot- hills of Sahayadri ghats (a part of Western Ghats), Mhadie river flows. People living in the region divert the flow of water to a small patch and sow paddy in late winter (rabi) season and Shri Keshav Majik, Tumbigi, Ranewada, Sanquelim. Sattari North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Rupesh D. Gauns, Ranewada, Porye, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2787 Use of paddy stalk to suppress weeds and conserve moisture in sandy loam soil 2788 Retention of moisture in soil by ploughing 2789 Use of leaves of custard apple and Vitex nugundo to protect rice against rat and other pests harvest by April end. Ploughing and land preparation are done manually. This practice is otherwise called silt cultivation because it is grown on the riverbed after removal of pebbles. Keywords: puran, paddy, riverbed, silt, divert During first week of June, paddy stalks are spread in a thick layer on sugarcane field. The layer acts as a cover to decrease the intensity of rain and suppress germination of weed seeds. After decomposition it is converted into organic matter, which is available to the suceeding crop, i.e. wheat or greengram. This technology is quite useful for the crop grown on sandy soil, and sugarcane crop can sustain moisture stress up to 20-30 days. About 70-80% weed population is controlled by this practice. Keywords: paddy straw, weed, moisture, rain intensity After harvest of paddy, in this area groundnut is cultivated. Prior to sowing of groundnut, ploughing three times helps retain moisture in the field, under rainfed condition. Keywords: paddy, groundnut, moisture Farmers of Narkuda village of Rajendranagar in Ranga Reddy district of Andhra Pradesh expose the paddy crop to the smoke of burnt leaves of custard apple and Vitex nugundo for better control of insects and rats. This practice exists in the farm families of the village for the last 20 years. Leaves of these plants are put in a pot and burnt near the rat burrows. By this practice, rats are killed and insects fly away from the plants. About 5 kg Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Prakash Sakaram Bali, H.No.252, Bela Vita Wada Sangolda, Bardez, North Goa (Goa) 403 511 Shri Ramulu, Narkuda, Rajendranagar, Dist. Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) 500 030 Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No.