 • After setting all three options mentioned above, clicked on option to check the date of next irrigation. • The output, weather irrigation due on mentioned date will appear below in written and same output voice will come through speech text option. Guidelines for compliance of irrigation date • Always remember date of planting of sugarcane. • Provide 75 mm water in each irrigation for sugarcane plant and ratoon crop. • Keep irrigation channels free from weeds and damage. • In case field was irrigated before planting of sugarcane then, pre planting irrigation date must be considered as last irrigation date. • Decide yourself the irrigation date after hoeing in sugarcane fields during summer season (April–June) and then use mobile app for determination of next irrigation date. • Nitrogen application in the standing crop must be given through urea in the side of rows of sugarcane after two days of irrigation followed by light hoeing. • For determination of next irrigation date during the rainy season (July–September) always follow the weather forecast for irrigation. • In case of heavy rainfall in near future, consider last date of irrigation after three days of end of rains. • Once crop field is irrigated, after that 10 mm or less rainfall will not change the date of last irrigation for determination of next date of irrigation. • Irrigation must be stopped before one month of sugarcane harvesting. Highlights of the app • This app is based on scientific calculation. • It is very simple app which makes it very easy to use. • Entire app has been made in Hindi language to make it more useful to sugarcane growers. • Output, next date of irrigation appears in text and speech to text option. • Necessary guidelines have been provided in the app for proper use and implementation of output. • The app is equally useful for sugarcane plant and ratoon crop, autumn, spring and summer planted crop and early and mid late varieties. • It avoids unwanted irrigations in sugarcane crop. • It is useful in case of rains. • App provides brief history of establishment of ICAR-Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow. SUMMARY Sugarcane crop is considered as high water demanding crop. Regular extraction of ground water for irrigation use has resulted in receding of the ground water table by 2–3 m per annum. Therefore, precise irrigation scheduling in sugarcane crop for efficient utilization of irrigation water is imperative. Sugarcane farmers of the north Indian states can increase irrigation water use efficiency in sugarcane crop by using the Ikshu Kedar mobile app for precise irrigation scheduling in sugarcane at different crop growth stages. The app in its present version serves mainly the plant crop and surface irrigation situations. To broaden its applicability new features like scheduling irrigation for sugarcane ratoon under mulching, skip-furrow irrigation both in plant and ratoon crops and drip irrigation methods need to be added.