 y Cut slices of banana trunk 7-10 cm thick, place them around the stool on the ground covered by banana leaves to trap and then kill banana weevils mechanically. Adult Rhizome weevil Tunneling and rotting of pseudostem due to pseudostem weevil Scarring beetle damage on tender leaf and whorl May–June 2023 51 y Disc-on-stump traps can be used for trapping weevils. Disc-on-stump traps consist of corm slices placed on top of harvested plants cut at the rhizome. Adult weevils are attracted to the cut stems or corms for shelter, to feed and to lay eggs. The weevils can be collected by hand and destroyed. The efficiency of the traps depends on their numbers and frequency of trapping. y Cosmolure (an aggregation pheromone) can be set at the rate of 4 traps/ha. The pheromone will last for 2-3 months. Pit fall trap is a metal basin of 15 cm diameter and 12 cm height filled with detergent water up to 3 cm level from the bottom. This is placed in such a way that the brim of the basin is at the ground level and the remaining part inside a pit. A small wooden stand is kept at the middle of the basin on which cosmolure is suspended. The trap should be placed on a 20 × 100 m grid throughout the area. After a month, the trap is moved to 20 m thereby the whole area will be covered with in a cropping season at 4 traps/ha. y Apply castor cake @ 250 g per pit before planting also prevents infestation. y Application of 60 to 100 g of neem seed powder or neem cake at planting and then at four months intervals significantly diminished pest damage and increased yields. Application of over 100 g of neem oil was phytotoxic (harmful to plants) and uneconomical. y Apply 50 g of powdered neem seed kernel per plant in the baby pits in which suckers are planted, apply one kg of neem cake in two equal split doses at one and two month after planting, apply 50-100 g neem seed powder around each stool at 4 months interval (applying higher rates will harm the plant) and apply neem leaf mulch around the base of the plant (1 kg per plant). y Extracts of M. azedarach, Tagetes spp and R. communis could possibly control the weevil through affecting oviposition. y Regular monitoring of weevil by keeping banana traps viz. (i) longitudinal cut stem trap of 30 cm size @ 10- 15/acre. In case once weevil is attracted to the laid traps, place longitudinal split banana traps @ 100 ha with bio control agents like Beauveria bassiana or Heterorhabditis indica @ 20 g/trap. These bio control agents have to be swabbed on the cut surface of the stem traps and keep the cut surface facing the ground. y Apply biocontrol agents like Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae in the banana fields and it causes more than 90% mortality of the weevils y Dip suckers in Beauveria bassiana @ 20 g/l for 30 minute before planting. y Predatory ants such as the big headed ant (Pheidole megacephala) and Tetramorium spp feed the eggs, grubs and pupae of weevils. y Some endophytic non pathogenic Fusarium spp.