6 2009 CSIRO, Australia RCA4_CSIRO 4 EC-EARTH 2010 ICHEC, European Consortium (EC) RCA4_ICHEC 5 MIROC5 2010 MIROC Japan RCA4_MIROC 6 MPI-ESM-LR 2009 MPI-M, Germany RCA4_MPI 7 IITM-RegCM4 CanESM2 2010 CCCma,Canada 50 km × 50 km RegCM4_CCCma 8 CNRM-CM5 2010 CNRM, France RegCM4_CNRM 9 GFDL-ESM2M 2011 NOAA, GFDL, USA RegCM4_GFDL 10 MPI-ESM-LR 2009 MPI-M, Germany RegCM4_MPI A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 6 system components, which in this study will be changes in stream flow (and ultimately water available for irrigation) and crop yield caused by changing climatic conditions. Adaptive capacity is the ability of the system to cope with change, which in this context will be determined by performance metric thresholds defined by stakeholders as levels of acceptable performance. 3.1. Bottom-up approach for vulnerability assessment The study used the CRIDA methodology for vulnerability assessment, which is a flexible methodology depending on the system under consideration. It helps in accounting for the risks posed by climate and other non-climatic stressors in our decisions to plan for adaptation measures. The CRIDA concept is an extension of, and contains the same basic elements as, the conventional water resources planning and management cycle, but it incorporates the technical analysis needed to deal with future uncertainties (Mendoza et al., 2018). At the same time, it moves away from conventional planning by focusing on performance objectives relevant to the system under consideration. The method is in the process of transforming from a purely research and academic concept to one that is operationalized, as in the case of flood manage­ ment in Udon Thani, Thailand and water resources management plan­ ning by the California Department of Water Resources, United States (https://en.unesco.org/crida/cases). The broad methodology of CRIDA used for the vulnerability assessment in this study is presented in Fig. 3. Main diversions needed from the conventional adaptation planning methods include (i) gaining a clear understanding of the current vul­ nerabilities of the system under consideration (ii) identifying the rele­ vant climate and non-climate stressors acting on the system and (iii) finding the conditions that are expected to expose the system to risks. The vulnerability assessment described in this article covers only the first two steps in the CRIDA approach. The research will be further extended to cover the remaining steps of CRIDA approach. Initially, stakeholders are identified, and performance objectives for each are defined in consultation with them. The method involves a shared planning exercise involving multiple stakeholders with varying planning objectives. For each performance objective, thresholds or limits of per­ formance are also defined as the performance values beyond which the Fig. 3. Steps in CRIDA methodology (). Adapted from Mendoza et al., 2018 A.G. Kamalamma et al.