 Both the sexes are polled; males may rarely have scurs or rudimentary/small horns. Tail is short and thin (range: 7–16 cm). Fleece is extremely coarse, open and hairy. The flocks are generally purebred; males are selected on the basis of size and conformation. In Bandur animals, Roman nose, medium sized head, white patch from poll to neck, long body with medium height, short and strong legs, particularly the hind legs and presence of wallets are the desirable traits for selection of breeding males and females. Typical Bandur ewes are selected and maintained with great MECHERI SHEEP Under the Network Project on Animal Genetic Resources, Mecheri sheep was studied. Mecheri is a promising hairy breed, which occupies the first position in population and area of distribution in Tamil Nadu. The breed is mainly distributed in Salem, Erode and Dharmpuri districts of Tamil Nadu. Its approximate population is about 0.58 million. Kongy, Vellar and Vanniyars are the communities responsible for developing this breed. The average flock size of this breed includes about 16.6 breeding ewes, 1.02 breeding rams and 4.12 lambs. The coat colour of this breed is mixture of brown and white. The animals are polled, medium sized with pendulous ears, hairy coat “v” shape thin and short tail.The Mecheri sheep skin is superior for the quality viz., softness, grain tightness, fullness, surface smoothness, uniformity of colour and general appearance. The histology of Mecheri skin has thick stratum corneum, more number of hair follicles in the papillary layer and sebaceous glands in the reticular layer. The population in the present status does not require conservation but genetic improvement for better growth needs to be undertaken. Round enclosures (koodu) for lambs Adult Mecheri ram Adult Mecheri ewe Patti with bamboo sticks LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 95 efforts and care for producing breeding rams; the cost of such ewes and their progeny is comparatively very high. November to December is the main lambing season and August to October the minor. Lambing rate is about 70% with an average lambing interval of 8–12 months. An ewe produces 10–12 lambs in its lifetime. The animals are generally sheared twice a year (January–February and July–August). Average greasy wool production is about 400–450 g/annum in two clips. Hassan sheep: Hassan sheep breed prevails in Hassan district of Karnataka; the name was derived from the name of its habitat. The flocks are of medium size— average flock size is 34—very small flocks are rare. The animals are small to medium in size. The body colour is white or white with light brown or black spots on head and different parts of the body. Ears are medium long and drooping. Average ear length was 14.1 ± 009 cm (range: 8–17 cm). Females are usually polled; about 30– 40% of the males are horned and remaining polled. Tail is short and thin (range: 8– 24 cm).