) - 8,000 Total expenditure 1,58,000 Income from Amaranth seed produced (1tonnes/ha) TL seed price of amaranth @ `400/Kg 4,00,000 Income from sweet corn produced Market price of sweet corn @ `30/ kg 35,000 Gross income 4,35,000 Net income (B-A) 2,77,000 Benefit-cost ratio 1:2.75 Indian Farming 39 November 2023 Seed production of amaranths with sweet corn as border crop • Timely sowing and removal is very important for border and trap crop and any avoidance will lead to failure of purpose. SUMMARY It is important to adopt border and trap crop strategies as a component of IPM module for multifarious advantage with high yield of vegetable crops. Seed production with border crop provides opportunity of additional income generation with sustainable ecosystem and resource conservation. However, it is equally important to consider other approaches for complete protection from invaded pests in cultivated vegetable crop. Most common crops may be used for trap or border crops for commercial cultivation of vegetable crops and judiciously may be applied to other crops also. *Corresponding author’s email: meenu10iari@gmail.com behaviour. • Pests accumulated on trap or border crop should be destroyed with suitable strategies like cultural method or natural enemies before their spillage to main crop. • Results of trap and border crop may vary according to weather conditions. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi Handbook of Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi HANDBOOK OF INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi Animal Husbandry HANDBOOK OF www.icar.org.in SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 42 November 2023 

Website Link : https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Rice Variety Cover IV : United Nations Decade on Ecosystem Restoration 2021-2030 Volume 73, No. 10 OCTOBER 2023 IS/ISO 9001:2015 Organization Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incur- ring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any conse- quences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.