 The need of information through ICT (mobile phone) was highest for crop production. The extent of awareness of women farmers on indicators of climate change and climate variables influencing production, revealed that 51.06% of respondents were fully aware about increase in temperature followed by 40.68% about changes in water level and 33% about irregular rainfall. Regarding adoption of practices for coping with climate change, 39.63% had changed their planting calendar, 36.09% adopted inter-cropping, 32.27% adopted crop diversification, 31% shifted to integrated farming system and 29% adopted crop rotation. A conceptual framework for scoping IFS models from gender perspective with emphasis on income enhancement was developed and altogether 37 IFS models were identified based upon agro-climatic zones. Data collection on use of ICT in agriculture and allied sectors. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 121 The fibre extraction procedure were standardized for non-conventional sources of underutilized fibres, viz. 6 bast fibres, 2 leaf/sheath fibres, and 2 seed hair fibres, and were processed for value addition. The extracted fibres were analyzed for the chemical composition and fibre quality parameters. A natural dyed castor fibre showed good to extremely good sunlight fastness and very good to excellent fastness for washing, rubbing and perspiration. Underutilized fibres, viz. mesta fibre was also utilized for sanitary napkins preparation. Fibre extracted from selected plant biomass Under popularization and product diversification of ethnic crafts on textiles with ICT application, traditional designs and motifs were documented, which will be tested for the acceptance of the fusion of art forms and subsequently the designs, will be digitized for commercial production and development of a business model. Data on reproductive health, maternal health and child care and psychological well being were collected in 11 states. The standard norms for prevalent levels of psychological well being, reproductive health knowledge and maternal and child health knowledge of rural women were established and intervention packages were developed to bring improvement. Awareness camps on reproductive and maternal health were also organized. To prepare woman for conception and delivery of a healthy child and to nurture the child in healthy environment, information and risk factors about maternal and child care in rural families and knowledge of farm women regarding reproductive health were collected. The total Maternal and Child Health Awareness (MCHA) showed significant relationship with reproductive health awareness, psychological well being and socio-economic status. With regard to reproduction health awareness significant positive correlation was found with intellectual health dimension and total well-being. ❑ 13.