 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2833 Control of rice hispa in paddy by using jamalakhuti 2834 Pest management in rice by tulsi (Ocimum sanctum) plant This practice is followed by the people of Amtola village in dist. Kamrup of Assam. Rhizome of jamalakhuti (Costus speciosus) is crushed to make a paste and the juice is extracted out of it. This juice extract is diluted and can be used to spray in paddy field to control rice hispa. Keywords: hispa, jamalakhuti, paddy Tribal farmers of Champhai district of Mizoram follow the cultivation of rice in jhum lands. In rainfed rice of jhum lands there is attack of various insect pests. Farmers broadcast the seeds of rice in field and plant tulsi on borders of the field. This plant is also planted randomly to repel many other damaging insect pests. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: jhum, rice, tulsi, repel Shri Haren Kalita, Amtola, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 134 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 2835 Control of rice pests by neem- oil spray 2836 Control of crane entry in paddy fields Shri Thanikachalam experimented and found an effective control of rice pests like stem borer and leaf roller, using neem-oil spray. Two hundred ml neem oil is mixed with 4 kg soil or sand and a little cowdung to enhance microbial activity. This slurry is incubated for 2 days. The liquid is then extracted by repeatly washing with water. It is filtered through four folds of cloth. Volume of this solution is then finally made up to 60 litres. The prepared solution is sprayed on paddy field with a power sprayer. It effectively controls stem borer and leaf roller in rice. Keywords: rice pests, neem oil, soil, cowdung To control the presence of crane in the paddy field, farmers tie waste audio and video cassettes tapes in and Shri A. Thanikachalam, Assistant Manager Shri C. Bhakkiyanadhan S/o Chandrasekaran, P.O. Nettavelampatty, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2837 Use of sirang theirong leaves to control weeds and insects in paddy field around the field. Noise from the tape and glittering shine keep away the crane from the field. Keywords: crane, paddy, noise, tape Farmers of Nagainga village of disrict Ukhrul, in Manipur collect fallen leaves of a local tree, called sirang theirong (Juglans regia) and broadcast the leaves in paddy field. Thickness of layer is up to 1-2 cm. When the decomposition starts, weed growth is suppressed. Simultaneously many cutting and chewing type of insects are controlled. About 35-40% inhabitants use this old practice. Keywords: sirang theirong, weed, insect, decomposition (via Kottaipalayam), taluk Thuraiyur, dist.