 In this transition, issues of technology transfers through commercialization from public research, gaps of knowledge in new product development (NPD) processes for the markets by attracting agri-entrepreneurs through agri incubators have started to emerge. Incubators are recognized as “technology-led and knowledge-driven enterprises” as they help in speedy commercialization of innovations and research outputs. Technology business incubators not only help in growth of technology based new enterprises but also improve survival rate of the agri- entrepreneurs who are not only required to act as innovator but also for economic growth and job creation. They have immense potential to improve the livelihoods of stakeholders in agri-production and consumption systems in rural regions. The incubators help in mustering support services for start-ups with respect to technology refining, validation, business services including strategy, planning and scale up operations, IP services, help in finding funds etc. Compared to other sectors like engineering, pharmaceuticals, ICT, machinery, consumer goods etc., this concept is at an early stage in the agriculture and food sector. Even at the global level, there is start of evolution of a variety of agribusiness incubators and many are still at early stage levels. The processes of technology transfer from academic institutions to industry have emerged during the last two decades following the “Bayh-Dole Act of 1980”, an amendment to the patent code of United States. It paved way to claiming ownership in intellectual property on research funded by U.S. Government. Soon this led to similar initiatives in India. In the Indian NARES, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) had taken the stewardship of technology commercialization through the promulgation of IP and technology commercialization policy in 2006. The IP&TM scheme launched during 2008 can be seen as a driver towards implementation of the policy. Under this scheme, Institute Technology Management Units (ITMUs) were established across all ICAR Introduction 1 institutes. These initial steps of ITMU scheme grants led to the building of vibrant IP ecosystem in the NARES. In terms of visible gains, the number of filings under various IP categories have increased significantly. To upscale the process 22 of BPDs in NARES were establised with National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP). The overall objective of the project grants was to initiate this new mode in NARS and internalize the scope of incubation into the system. Units under BPD projects sought to provide a wide range of services ranging from incubation facilities, research support and business services such as office space, access to Information and Communication Technology (ICT) services, advisories on management, and marketing, technical, legal and financial issues.