 SARS-CoV-2 can infect multiple animal species including pet (Dogs and Cats) and wild animals (Tiger, Lion, Minks and Ferrets). To detect SARS-CoV-2 antigen in animals, a RPA-CRISPR based point-of– care kit ‘SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit’ has been developed for detection of SARS-CoV-2 antigen in clinical samples by ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar. The test can be performed within 1 hour using a thermal block and results can be obtained using lateral flow strips. The kit is being validated using clinical samples. Further, to detect SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in pet animals (dogs and cats), an indirect ELISA kit ‘SARS-CoV-2 Antibody detection ELISA Kit’ has been developed. The kit is being validated using dog and cat sera. Similarly, a blocking ELISA kit ‘Covid-19 Blocking ELISA’ has been developed to detect SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in multi-species (dog, cat, lion and tiger). Using this kit, number of serum samples collected from Covid-19 affected (RT-PCR positive) lions and tigers from Arignar Anna Zoological Park, Chennai during 2021 were found positive. The kit is being validated using serum samples collected from different species. (ii) Animal cloning technology: India created a history in the field of animal cloning research by the birth of world’s first cloned riverine buffalo using an economical and simple animal cloning technique called handmade cloning at ICAR-NDRI Karnal. Using simplified buffalo cloning technology, several cloned buffaloes were produced in the country using different types of somatic cells. The technology developed is less demanding in terms of equipment, skill and time. Seven clones from a single superior bull, named ‘M-29’, were produced and birth of first re-cloned calf of a cloned bull, named ‘Hisar-Gaurav’ was successfully achieved. It has already produced 15,000 doses of semen. These semen doses have been used at ICAR-CIRB as well as at farmers herds to produce 62 pregnancies which are growing normally, similar to progenies of bulls born conventionally. The semen of the cloned bulls has fertility attributes equal to those of normal bulls. (iii) Chemical, structural and functional characterization of identified anti-tick lead phytochemicals and optimization of delivery matrix for effective application of natural formulation for the control of acaricide resistant ticks: Safe, stable and characterized flowable (F10) and natural cream formulations were developed to tackle the resistant tick problem. 4 Prominent Success Stories SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit SARS-CoV-2 Antibody detection ELISA Kit Covid-19 Blocking ELISA kit Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 74 Identification and quantification of five active compounds in the formulation were validated. Both the formulations were 80- 90% effective under in vitro model and 60- 90% effective against ivermectin resistant ticks. Both the formulations were evaluated against experimental challenge infestations and 70-90% efficacy was recorded.