 Some species of Dendrobium are grown on walls, on tree trunk or branches to beautify and cover them. Some herbal medicines can be prepared from the dried stems of Dendrobium nobile. As Dendrobium can enhance salivation, it can cure dry coughs, dry mouth and severe thirst. Many other diseases can be cured from the herbal medicines prepared from different species of Dendrobiums, which specifies the importance of these plants in the field of medicine. Dendrobium blossoms are the most common spices used in cooking. In Thailand and Europe, these Research Flowering plant of Dendrobium nobile July–August 2023 31 Blossom, Sally Fiesta, Rudkin, Ice Storm, Hawaiian Twinkle, Sea Sky, Singa Beauty, Arthur Reserve, Green Wonder, Open Heart Leaf, Rising Star, Fairy Star, Burbank Candy, Burnt Orange, Justine. Variety-species hybrid: Blue Rain, Samson Toy, Margaret Thompson, Third Eyes Vision, Rods Eagle, Spider Lily, Sylvester, Paradise Fortune, Sky Mirror, Butterfly Dawn, Island Snow, Australian Idol, Fine Ford, Half Moon Bay, Special Bride, Two Kings, Genting Lipstick, Singa Kagoshima, Jairak Spin. Cultivation Potting mixture: The potting media of Dendrobium orchid should be well-drained, loose and friable. It should mimic epiphytic condition and supply sufficient air nearly equivalent to the amount that a Dendrobium root gets while growing on tree top. At the same time, it should hold sufficient moisture for the plant and hold the plant erect. If it supplies some nutrients to the growing roots, it can be a win-win situation. A potting medium consisting of charcoal or leaf mould, brick pieces and coco chips/ coconut fibre/woodchips in equivalent proportions is ideal for plant growth as well as flowering. Under low humid conditions {30% relative humidity (RH)}, a mixture of tree bark/perlite/sphagnum moss or osmunda are used in plastic pots; under average humidity (35 to 50% RH), a mixture of tree bark and sphagnum moss are used in plastic pots; under high humidity (≥55% RH), bark, stone culture, charcoal or tree fern are used as potting media in clay pots. Among potting mixtures, cocochips + cocopeat + leaf mould + brick pieces (4: 1: 2: 3) is found to perform well. If some potting materials are not available to the growers, locally available stone/brick pieces, wood chips (1-2 inch size), leaf mould (chopped in small pieces) could be used as potting media in 1:1:1 ratio on volume basis. Plastic pots should have a fair number of drainage holes (4 to 8 holes on 3” to 4” pots, 8 to 12 holes on 5” to 6” pots) and the pots should be kept at 2-3 feet high table or other structure so as to provide sufficient aeration. Potting Dendrobium orchids: The roots of the Dendrobium should be placed in the pot and accordingly pot size should be just large enough to accommodate the roots.