 There should be a greater focus on community rain water harvesting and recycling research with more equitable distribution of water for protecting the interests of small and marginal farmers in a watershed framework. Practices like high density 9 planting, introduction of high value species and popularization of promising new technologies should be made attractive for adoption by the small farmers to increase and sustain their incomes. Judicious mix of farming and non farming occupations for various rural communities should be encouraged to stabilize their income and livelihood. Facilities for grading and pathological testing should be ensured at the door step of the farmers. There is an urgent need to strengthen existing technology transfer system within the NARS (front-line extension, Agri-Business incubator, Agrinnovate India Ltd.) and to establish technology parks for commercialization both in ICAR and SAUs. Women Empowerment: Capacity building of women and vulnerable farming communities in market intelligence, environmental issues and adverse effects of environment/ climate change on crop production and creating awareness about new technologies and products such as improved biomass stove. Indiscrete burning of forest biomass should be avoided to preserve carbon foot- print of the ecosystem. Cross-learning of empowerment strategies adopted globally may be exploited for the betterment of livelihood of rural women. Other Ideas: Reiteration of known practices and concepts such as community rain water harvesting and recycling, high density planting, introduction of high value species and popularization of promising new technologies, innovative practices like covering grape bunches with metal cones promote grassroots innovation oriented technology validation, assessment and refinement oriented projects, establishment of Hi-tech kitchen gardens in the urban areas and capacity building in organic and sustainable farming systems. Validation of valuable ancient knowledge and wisdom of Vrikshayurveda in traditional agriculture with modern science-based technologies needs to be taken up for strengthening Sustainable Agriculture Practices (SAP). 7. Economics, Statistics and Marketing Eleven proposals were sponsored by the Council under the themes of role of women in agricultural production and marketing, sustainable development goals related to agriculture and farmers and advanced research methodologies in social science. The salient recommendations were as listed below: FPOs, Marketing and e-NAM: There is a need for forward and backward linkages for efficient marketing of the agri-produce using e-NAM for which capacity building of manpower as well as ease of doing business is infused. Creating awareness about e-NAM and future market and its benefits to farmers through different extension programmes; tracing of market linkages and resulting price convergence happening out of e-NAM to assess the impact.