 On Pulses research, IIPR is the nodal institute with 12 other partners involved in lentil, grasspea, Kabuli chickpea and faba bean research on breeding, pathology, agronomy and research demonstrations across major pulse growing areas. On barley and wheat research, ICARDA is working with IIWBR and its partner centers in developing high-yielding promising lines with resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses and quality traits. Genetic materials bred and tested in Lebanon, Morocco, Egypt, Ethiopia and at its research platform in Madhya Pradesh are made available to respective collaborators. NRM research is being carried out with CAZRI, IARI, IISS and CIAE on water and land productivity, conservation agriculture and cropping systems. Under ICAR-ICARDA work plan, the following five projects are in implementation in collaboration with ICAR institutions and several State Agricultural Universities. yy Identification and deployment of climate-smart traits in Indian Pulse improvement programs to enhance production and improving livelihoods and nutritional security yy Development and deployment of climate- resilient germplasm of barley and wheat for wide adaptation under climate change scenarios yy Improving farmers’ income and livelihoods in rain-fed production systems through agricultural intensification and crop diversification yy Climate resilient and cost-effective technologies for rainfed regions ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 20 yy Capacity development of young researchers and visits of policy makers to various International events for cross learning Import of genetic materials: Under crop improvement program of legumes and cereals, 1868 germplasm, breeding lines and segregating populations comprised of 37 nurseries across lentil, grasspea, Kabuli chickpea, faba bean, barley, bread and durum wheat were introduced under International Nursery Network. Besides, 4857 lines of lentil, grass pea, faba bean, Kabuli chickpea, durum wheat, and 2 winter wheat nurseries from Turkey were introduced on special requests. The materials have been shared with partner institutes and a set was planted at FLRP, Amlaha. Additionally, selections made at ICARDA’s research platform at Amlaha are shared with respective institutes as under: to Fusarium wilt, rust, powdery mildew and Stemphylium blight under field conditions. Kabuli chickpea: A total of 145 elite lines for early maturity (105-115 days); tall, non-lodging and erect growth habit, bold seed (>50 gms/100-seeds), and lines with higher podding intensity and yield potential were selected at FLRP, Amlaha and shared with IARI, PAU, JNKVV, RLBCAU, RAK college, BCKV, OUAT. In AICRP: AVT-1 (6): PhuleG16315, PhuleG16318, BG4009, DK 16-313, DK-17-1306, DBGV503 and FLIP07-314C-S2, FLIP93-93C, FLIP09-272C-S3 lines are in Station trial at Rani Laxmi Bai Central Agricultural University (RLBCAU), Jhansi Grass pea: Based on early maturity, (<120 days), high biomass (up to 6.5 t/ha) and seed yield (1.