 The numbers on the vertical coordinate typically represent the distance or dissimilarity between clusters. This distance is a measure of how different or similar the clusters are to each other. The higher the number, the greater the distance or dissimilarity between the clusters being merged. Fig. 6. Spatio-temporal distribution of classification of districts according to the HCA in Karnataka during 2004–2005 (a) and 2018–2019 (b). 5. Conclusions and recommendations 5.1. Conclusions The research focused on 10 major crops (rice, jowar, bajra, maize, ragi, tur, gram, groundnut, sunflower, and cotton) cultivated across Karnataka, delving into the spatio-temporal variation in agricultural efficiency during 2004–2005 and 2018–2019. Moreover, this study examined the spatio-temporal variation of irrigation intensity, S. DAS, et al.: Spatio-temporal variation and relationship between agricultural... Regional Sustainability (2024) 5(2) 100144 13 providing insights into the adaptability of agricultural practices in response to variation conditions. The investigation further explored the relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity. This study assessed the pattern of inter-district variation by computing the differences in agricultural efficiency between 2004–2005 and 2018–2019. Significant improvements were observed in Belgaum, Gulbarga, and Yadgir districts, signifying positive development of agricultural efficiency. Conversely, specific districts, particularly in the northern and southern Karnataka, exhibited a decline in agricultural efficiency, underscoring the necessity for focused interventions. The central theme of this study revolved around the relationship between agricultural efficiency and irrigation intensity, unveiling a positive correlation over time. While the overall trend implied that increased irrigation intensity contributed to improve agricultural efficiency, the existence of exceptions in Kodagu and Gulbarga districts underscored the complexity of this relationship. The results highlighted a significant advancement in agricultural efficiency, particularly in Belgaum, Gulbarga and Yadgir districts, which signaled promising prospects for agriculture extension and development in these regions. Conversely, certain districts in the study area faced significant challenges, exhibiting a decline of above 20.00 of agricultural efficiency index. The impacted districts included Bagalkot, Bidar, Raichur, and Bijapur districts in northern Karnataka; Chitradurga, Chikballapur, and Hassan districts in the southern part; and Koppal and Gadag districts in southern Karnataka. The spatial distribution of agricultural efficiency index indicated that, in both the study periods, the southern Karnataka consistently outperformed others. Moreover, the study revealed significant variation of irrigation intensity during 2004–2005 and 2018–2019.