 Nine incubatees are incubating in this Centre, out of which one has started an innovative process of utilizing rice husk for making incense sticks. Other off- campus incubatees have started their agribusiness in different sectors. At ABI Centre, 63 candidates have so far graduated through Comprehensive Agribusiness Incubation Program while 257 candidates graduated through Technology based Entrepreneurship Development Program and 11 candidates graduated through Skill based Entrepreneurship Development Program. Future plans for NRRI-ABI The NRRI-ABI is being upgraded from incubation centre to Start-up Park which would have modern workshop, production facility for microbial fertilizer, bio-agent production unit and quality lab besides incubation offices. The start- ups will be able to use these facilities on payment basis at nominal rate. CONCLUSION In situations where rice cultivation is less remunerative, it can be made profitable through innovative agribusiness approaches. The role of Agribusiness Incubation Centre at NRRI is to make available the scalable and commercial technologies in rice based ecosystem to the budding agripreneurs to make their farming remunerative. With the above mentioned technologies and also with the upcoming technologies, ABI Centre would reach more number of aspirants and train them to develop agribusiness ventures through incubation process. Corresponding author's e-mail: gak.kumar26@gmail.com. Technology preference of the participants. Series1, Farmers & rural youth, 124 Series1, Students, 102 Series1, Diploma holders 43 Series1, Urban 26 youth, Series1, Businessmen & Entrepreneurs, 21 Series1, Ex-serviceman, 15 No. of participants Category of participants Category of participants Different sectors of people participated in training programs. Series1, programs for FPCs, 7 Awareness Series1, Rice Seed technologies Training, 4 Series1, Capacity building for FPCs, 2 Series1, Agriprenurs' Conclave, 1 Number of programs Type of Program Other training programs organised by ABI Details of other programmes organised by ABI Centre. in the Entrepreneurship Development Programs. It included farmers/farmwomen, students, entrepreneurs, ex-servicemen, youth Indian Farming January 2020 56 S IMULATING the model of innovation lead entrepreneurial development through commercial licensing and incubation, has widely been practiced in a number of research universities abroad, the ICAR, the apex body for all agriculture and allied sector based research organizations in India has adopted its own policy of Intellectual Property Rights and Technology Management policy( IP&TM) in 2006. This further helped ICAR to institutionalize a robust system of technology commercialization through licensing and incubation across the R&D institutions under its purview.