 In this, data analytics of smart agriculture has been used and the facility of bidding has also been given to the farmers. • Agri-Market Mobile App: This app can be used by farmers on their mobile devices. To know the market price of the crops within 50 km. This app automatically captures the location of the person using the mobile and informs the farmer about the Global Positioning System (GPS) and price of the markets within 50 km. • RiceXpert: This is an app developed by National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack in the year 2017. It has been developed to provide all the information related to rice like, rice varieties, nutrient availability, weed control, nematode management, pest infestation and control, disease related problems and prevention, crop management, agricultural monitoring available to reduce labor etc. has been given for different ecologies in the crop. Also, this app acts as a diagnostic tool for quick resolution in rice by answering questions, assessing the problem by picture and through voice. • Krishi Insecticide and Fungicide Calculator: National Centre for Integrated Pest Management Research, New Delhi has developed insecticide and fungicide app on web and mobile platform for 12 major crops, viz. Rice, Cotton, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Brinjal, Arhar, Groundnut, Tomato, Soybean, Gram, Chilli, Okra. The main objective of these apps is to assist researchers, agricultural extension workers and farmers in the selection and use of pesticides with labels, judicious pesticide selection for the management of pests and diseases. • Fasal Salah: It is an informative Mobile app which is designed to help farmers by providing real time personalized crop advisory based on current and forecast weather which includes Temperature, Humidity, Wind Speed and Direction, Rainfall for next 10 days at taluk and village level. • Krishi Yantra App: Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal (ICAR-CIAE) under Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has developed Krishi Yantra App to augment research, operations and technology dissemination process in the field of agricultural engineering. In order to ensure that appropriate mechanization technology is selected by the entrepreneurs, a web-portal has been made available by ICAR-CIAE on their website. This helps prospective and existing entrepreneurs in selection of machines and available choices for procurement. Option of interaction between user and specialists is also available in the portal. • Farm mech App: The App is related to decision support for selection of suitable farm machineries for five major crops of Tamil Nadu. It also has dynamic Networking of 2,250 Custom hiring service operators in Android platform.