 It occurs in the north-western Himalayas from Kashmir to Garhwal at altitude of 4000–10000 feet. 71 Cedrus deodara Himalayan cedar H-Deodar Principal constituent of the oil is sequiterpene which is associated with sequiterpene alcohol. The oil is used as soap perfumery. The wood has diaphoretic, diuretic and carminative properties and is useful in fever, piles and pulmonary and urinary disorder. The bark is astringent and useful for fever, diarrhoea and dysentery. The olioresin and dark coloured oil obtained from the wood is valued as an application for ulcer and skin disease. A large evergreen, handsome tree with spreading branches, reaching up to 250 feet height. It occurs in north-western Himalayas from Kashmir to Garhwal at altitude of 4000 to 10000 feet and is most common conifer between 5500 and 8000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 326 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 72 Ceiba pentandra True kapok tree H- Safed simal B-Sehwetsimul M-Salmali Tam-Ilavum Tel-Tellaburaga Kan-Buraga Mal-Ilavu The kapok seed oil is used for same purpose as refined cotton seed oil. It is one of the adulterants in groundnut oil. The tree yields dark-red, almost opaque gum. It is astringent and is given in certain stage of bowel complaints. The root is diuretic. The leaves are used as emollient. The press cake and seeds are used as feed for cattle. It contains 26.2% crude protein, 7.5% fat and 23.2% carbohydrate. The cake is rich in mineral content. A medium sized deciduous tree, 50–100 feet high . The branches are prickly and young and bear digitately compound leaves. The fruits are oblong capsule. The plant is widely distributed in the hotter parts of western and southern India, Andaman Islands, Sri Lanka, Burma, Malaya, Java, Indo-China and other south-east Asian countries. 73 Celastrus paniculatus - H- Malkangni B- Malkangni T-Valuluvai Kan-Kariganne Mal-Palulavam The leaves are emmenagogue and the leaves sap is used as an antidote for opium poisoning. The bark is abortifacient. The seeds are bitter, laxative, emetic and tonic. They are used as a stimulant and diaphoretic in rheumatism, gout and various fevers. Flesh aril contains two alkaloids- celastrine and paniculatine. The stimulant action of celastrine specially manifest in the brain and is not followed by secondary depression. A large climbing shrub with yellow fruits common all over the hilly parts of the country up to an altitude of 4000 feet. The seeds are brown and are covered by a scarlet aril. 74 Cenchrus ciliaris - H- Anzan T-Kollukattai Tel-Kusa The grass can be fed green or turn into silage or made hay. It is said to increase milk in milch cattle and impart to them a sleek and glossy appearance, indicative of well doing stock.