 TECHNICAL COORDINATION Two meetings of Directors of ICAR institutes and ATARIs were held under the Chairmanship of Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR through Video Conferencing (VC). All the 114 Directors of ICAR institutes and ATARIs besides, Secretary, ICAR, Financial Advisor DARE/ ICAR, DDGs, ADG and senior officers from the ICAR Headquarters attended the meeting from their respective locations. First one was held on 19 March 2020 before the lockdown decision, wherein all Directors and senior officers from SMDs were asked to provide all possible assistance/ advisories to farmers and government in this critical situation of COVID-19 which should help not only sustain their farm activities but also to take care of their health and welfare. Second meeting through Video Conferencing was held on 10 April 2020 wherein it was emphasized to strictly follow lockdown guidelines, maintain hygiene, use of mask and social distancing in any circumstances. Besides these, various action points regarding the research protocols to be developed and observed were decided. It was emphasised to ensure the technology and input delivery among the farmers and other stakeholders using ICT and all other possible means were decided to minimise the impact of the COVID-19 on farmers agricultural sector. It was also decided to assess the losses in various agricultural commodities due to the pandemic along with the strategies for its mitigation. Need to create a bank of breeder’s seed to mitigate emergency situations and to study the plant pathogens including viruses along with the host resistance along with the host-pathogen interaction to improve the preparedness to address such issues in future were emphasised. Use of plant genetic resources to identify resistance genes especially for viral diseases was identified as the top priority area of agricultural research. Meetings of ICAR Regional Committees No. I and II were held on 30 June 2020 and 8 October 2020 through Video Conferencing from ICAR, New Delhi. The meeting of RC-I was inaugurated by Shri Narendra Singh Tomer, Agriculture Minister. Shri Parsottam Rupala and Shri Kailash Choudhary, Ministers of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare participated as the guests of Honour. The meeting of RC-II was inaugurated by Shri Parsottam Rupala, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. Shri Kailash Choudhary, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare participated as the Success stories of entrepreneurs/start-ups Shri Mohammed Fawas T C, a 21 years old highly ambitious young man ventured to start the entrepreneurship in seafood sector with the Ready-to-Eat (RTE) Mussel products. The mussels are considered as one of the most nutritive foods, which stimulates the brain functions, improves heart health, promotes cellular functions, facilitates blood circulation, reduces arthritis and prevents anaemia and asthma.