 Under damp conditions, the spots grow rapidly, forming elongated brown necrotic areas, which later rupture and give the older leaves a shot hole appearance (Fig. 5b). Young leaves are more prone to attacks than old ones. White tip symptoms are caused by infection at the tip of very young branches. Small fruits are also affected under favourable weather conditions (Fig. 5c). The infection is favoured by high humidity at moderate temperatures Symptoms of powdery mildew (Fig. 4a. panicle, b. leaf) a b Symptoms of anthracnose (Fig. 5a. Initial, b. developed, c. infection of fruit-lets) a b c Indian Horticulture 40 (25˚C). Conidia were observed to germinate and form appressoria between 95 and 100% relative humidity. Management In order to avoid fresh infection, the sources of infection should be eliminated. Diseased twigs, leaves, and fruits that fall to the ground in the orchard should be collected, and severely infected twigs from the tree should be pruned and burnt, as the fungus has a long saprophytic survival ability on dead twigs. Plants may be sprayed with suitable fungicides like copper oxychloride 50WP @ 0.3%, propineeb 70WP @ 0.2%, carbendazim Symptoms of shoulder browning (Fig. 6a. Initial, b. developed) a b Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the development of production-intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping-system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio- sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon. This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers.