 (vii) In fallow-mustard-sunflower sequence, the mustard yield decreases but increases in green manure/ greengram/ summer maize-mustard sequence, (viii) In soybean+popular agro- forestry based system soil health may be recovered by addition of organic matter, without shading or adverse effect on soybean/ berseem based system. (b) In other crops: (i) FYM/compost/green manure/waste residues are useful, but presently their use is low because of intensive cropping. This requires repromotion. (ii) Timely sowing has its own importance. Mustard is sown when the farmers can-not sleep without a bedsheet. (iii) Wilt disease does not occur if seed treatment in pulses like chickpea and pigeonpea is done through curd, butter milk and of linseed and mustard (for 24-48 hr). Use of fresh cowdung as seed treatment in cotton helps in early germination and protects from pests and diseases besides facilitating sowing operation. (iv) Use of coconut dust and wood ash in vegetable seeds, particularly in cucurbits, tomato and brinjal helps to save seeds from pest/disease damage in storage. (v) Use of besharam (Ipomoea carnea) is beneficial in controlling rats/pests in rice fields. (vi) Intercropping of chickpea/lentil + linseed (4:1 row ratio) and pigeonpea+sorghum  (1:3 row ratio) helps in controlling wilt disease. (c) For grain storage: (i) Pulses (split dal) for house- hold use may be kept safe without loss for a longer period by coating it with mustard oil. (ii) For house-hold use, rice is stored with common salt (small pieces); pulses with asafoetida (heeng) and camphor (kapoor); and wheat with garlic bulblets. The practice help control damage by storage pests. (iii) Use of dry neem leaves is useful in storage of grains. (iv) Seeds of cucurbitaceous vegetables, tomato and brinjal can be stored safely by mixing with wood-ash. (d) General: (i) For controlling termites in sugarcane or in any crop, use of cowdung in pots (pitchers) and placing it in field is an effective method. The smell of dung attracts termite which are trapped in the pitcher. (ii) Cow urine + neem leaves (4:1 ratio by weight) + copper piece/plate are mixed in pitcher and put in soil for about a month or two. Then it is boiled and the quantity is reduced to half, filtered and stored in bottle. The product acts as a good insecticide for all crops. (e) Amendments: Lucerne meal and barley straw are amendments for cotton root rot disease. Green manure of soybean is amendment for potato common scab. Wheat straw, corn stover and lucerne hay are amendment for potato black scrub. Oat straw, corn stover and lucerne hay are amendments for bean root-rot 2350 Mixed cropping of groundnut, sorghum, pearlmillet, pigeonpea and castor It is an age-old practice in Penugonda mandal of Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. Mixed cropping with groundnut reduces the risk of failure of crop under rainfed condition. Castor serves as a trap crop for spodoptera. Sorghum or pearlmillet serves as a guard crop.