No. Post Number Permanent Staff at ICT Unit at ICAR Hqrs, New Delhi 1. Scientists working at pay level 13 or above 03 2. Technical 03 3. Under Secretory 01 4. FAO 01 5. Section Officer 01 6. Assistant / UDC / LDC 05 Manpower 8 27 ICT-Roadmap S.No. Post Number Permanent Staff at IT Unit at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi 7. Scientists working at pay level 13 or above 05 8. Technical 05 9. Assistant / UDC / LDC 01 The capacity building of the permanent staff needs to be done regularly to make them productive, effective and competitive in the latest ICT / IT development. 8.2 Contractual Manpower Functional Group wise Scientific and Technical contractual manpower will be hired based on requirement from time to time. It has been contemplated that maximum 50 contractual manpower of various category may be required at present. These Functional Group may form network of available human resources available in ICAR. The hiring of contractual staff i.e. RA / SRF / Young Professional / IT professionals on contract / ad-hoc basis will be done as per guidelines of the Council and requirements. The qualification and experience of these professionals may be modified based on requirements from time to time. The contractual staff is to be hired by following ICAR/DST/GoI procedure as per requirement and approval of the Competent Authority.    

 Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi CROP RESIDUE MANAGEMENT OPTIONS EX-SITU ii Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options ©2021 All rights reserved Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Printed by Dr S.K. Singh, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture; Lasertypeset at M/s Dot & Design, 208, Reshabshree House, Ranjeet Nagar Comm. Complex, New Delhi 110008 and printed at M/s Chandu Press, 469, Patparganj Industrial Estate, Delhi 110092 Printed : July, 2021 Design and Production Punit Bhasin, DKMA ISBN: 978-81-7164-231-1 iii Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Foreword A LARGE portion of crop residues is burnt 'on-farm primarily to clean the field for sowing the next crop. The problem of crop residue burning is intensifying in recent years due to mechanized harvesting of crop, narrow time gap between harvesting of the previous crop and sowing of the next crop and shortage of human labour for removing the crop residues from field. As per the available estimates, burning of crop residues is predominant in northern and central states, namely, Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. A Central Sector Scheme on In-situ Crop Residue Management is in operation for the past three years and it has yielded increasing results in reducing the residue burning incidents. There are various ex-situ crop residue management options are available today.