 before the pest undergo winter hibernation on litchi trees. Not a single orchard should be missed for insecticidal spray. An organophosphate group of insecticide such as Triazophos (Triazophos 40% EC @1.5 ml/L), Profenphos (Profenfos 50 EC @ 2.0 ml/L water) or quinalphos (Quinalphos 25% EC @ 2.0 ml/L) will be appropriate at this phase. Further at the time of panicle initiation (but before flower opening), two insecticidal sprays (mass spray) need to be undertaken. At that time, combination of insecticides rather than single (as given under management strategy) may be undertaken. All these need to be done by the Department of Agriculture, Government of Bihar as individual farmer neither will be able to afford it nor the objective of community spray be fulfilled if left to farmers. An additional fund by the government may be earmarked to implement the action plan. The long term strategy to manage the pest will involve reasearch on eco-biology of the pest and alternative management options involving use of proven parastoid like Anastatus bangalorensis and Anastatus acherontiae. Mass rearing and release of parasitoid of the pest is to be undertaken at local level. This parasitoid and the technology for mass rearing is available with ‘National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources’, Bengaluru. Funding of the the project for mass rearing and release of this parasitoid at local level can be made under Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) or under State Horticulture Mission. Complexities involved in adopting the management strategy for quick know-down yy This pest is so sensitive to disturbances and sound that once a spraying operation is going to start, it flies away to another trees and after sometime when effect of insecticidal spray lessens, it again settle down on sprayed trees. yy The female lay eggs in batches that hatches on different time so one spray is not sufficient to kill the population of nymps. yy Though insecticidal spray has a quick knock down effect, some individual may escape (say 2-5%) and from the small population can again build up population in large numbers because of high fecundity of female and longer life cycle, that are capable of infesting whole orchard. yy There are no natural enemies of the pest because of being an introduced pest in the region. yy During flowering and fruit-set, population builds up very fast and no insecticidal spray can be done during this time. Hence, farmer just have to wait and watch their litchi crop being damaged by this dreaded pest. yy Another dimension is that the pest emits bad odour and the body fluid are toxic causing blisters on skin of human being. Even if there are fruits on tree, it becomes difficult to harvest fruits as skin of the body of labourers get blisters once the insect come in their contact that is inveitable to happen during the process.