 Pusa-FSF could achieve daytime temperatures as low as approximately 4–6°C when the daily ambient maximum temperature reaches about 45°C. Post-harvest management and value-addition: IoT- based smart storage structure for pulses was developed for one-tonne storage bin, based on the developed protocol. It includes three sensor modules, and each module has a carbon dioxide sensor, temperature and RH sensor, and a display unit. One module has an oxygen sensor also. Maize cobs are harvested at around 35% moisture content while shelling operation is performed at around 17% moisture content. Therefore a hot air maize cob dryer was developed with 150 kg capacity. The drying is carried out at 60°C, and it takes 24–27 h to reach the final moisture content of 17–18% at the atmospheric temperature (36.86°C) at RH (51.37%). Certain fungi that are found in agricultural crops such as maize, peanuts, cotton seed, chillies etc. produce aflatoxins. These are carcinogenic and impose qualitative and quantitative losses to the agricultural produce. The lateral flow immuno assay (LFIA) device was developed for detection of toxins in the agricultural crops. A natural ventilator based modular onion storage system of one tonne capacity was developed. The storage study of the onions indicated 18% physiological weight loss, 5.5% rotting and 0.2% sprouting losses of stored onions. A power operated baby corm dehusker was developed to reduce the drudgery in dehusking of baby corn. It has capacity of 25 kg/h. Slitting efficiency, dehusking efficiency and desilking efficiency of this machine are 100, 92 and 100%, respectively. Composite yarns prepared by wrapping conductive carbon filaments with cotton fibres through friction spinning were used to develop flexible heat generating pads for multiple applications. These include heating shoe pads, thermal garments, warming seat covers, heating gloves etc. which can be operated by 5V, 2A DC power supply. Nutri-cereals such as bajra and maize are highly nutritious and are even superior to rice and wheat in various nutritional constituents. In spite of all these benefits, bajra and maize occupy a lower position in human food chain in comparison to staple food grains and are not popular among consumers due to lack of good dough making quality, which limits their application in routine bakery products and in chapatti making. To address this problem, vital wheat gluten (VWG) protein added for reconstitution of bajra and maize flour and products such as Hallur: Soft Bajra Atta and Makai: Soft Makka Atta were developed. These products were as good as wheat for superior dough quality. The VWG was extracted from wheat flour. Superior nutritional composition of Hallur: Soft Bajra Atta and Makkai: Soft Makka Atta will boost their consumption, and also enable farmers to have incentive to grow more nutri cereals. Agricultural human resource development: ICAR ensures quality assurance of AUs through accreditation and ranking process.