  In rural areas, inadequate infrastructure, including electricity and internet connectivity, can pose significant challenges for deploying IoT devices and accessing cloud-based AI services. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report - Process flow diagram Sensor data collection from field Data transmission to server/cloud Weather data collection and processing v vu Sensor and weather data receiving at main controller vu Use of Al/ML for prediction of local environment Decision making by the main controller gy Alerts and Notifications v Control actions uv loT based real-time irrigation and monitoring Fig. 1: Flow diagram for the proposed framework - Outcomes/ results of use case The outcome of the use case indicates the optimized irrigation scheduling based on soil moisture deficit as well as weather prediction to minimize water input and energy savings. Implementing Al and loT-enabled irrigation systems in India comes with several lessons and challenges: e One of the primary challenges is ensuring widespread adoption of Al and loT technologies among farmers, especially in rural areas. Limited awareness, access to technology, and technical expertise may hinder adoption rates. Providing training and support to farmers is essential to overcome this barrier. e Inrural areas, inadequate infrastructure, including electricity and internet connectivity, can pose significant challenges for deploying loT devices and accessing cloud-based Al services. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 119 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 120  The cost of implementing AI and IoT systems can be prohibitive for smallholder farmers with limited financial resources. Finding cost-effective solutions and exploring financing options, such as subsidies or grants, can help make these technologies more accessible.  Ensuring the proper functioning of IoT sensors and AI systems requires regular maintenance and technical support. Building local capacity for troubleshooting and repairs, as well as establishing service agreements with suppliers can help minimize downtime and maximize system reliability. Part B 3. Architectural considerations a. Data management NOTE - Topics that could be addressed here include data acquisition, transmission, processing, output, and governance (including ownership, security, privacy, etc.). - To be refined (inspiration can also be taken from the relevant details of the ITU-T FG-DPM template presented). b. System architecture The system's central hypothesis is to apply the right amount of water at the right time to fulfill the water requirement of the crop. For achieving this condition, the intelligent irrigation system consist of a soil moisture sensors and temperature sensor installed at the effective root zone of a specific crop in undisturbed soil.