 Cardamom hill reserves within the cardamom hills of Idukki district, Kerala account for 70% of the cardemon production of India. Existing climatic situation is challenging for the profitable cultivation of cardamom in Cardamom hill reserves of Kerala as it is congenial for occurrence and incidence of insect pests and diseases, which Indian Farming 18 March 2024 Indian Farming 79 March 2024 invites indiscriminate use of synthetic pesticides. For safer and continuous higher sustainable production, attention is needed on good agricultural practices through eco-friendly management of pests and diseases. The ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru has developed several bio-agents viz., Bacillus thuringiensis, Beauveria bassiana, Apantele sp., Friona sp., entomopathogenic fungus Lecanicillium lecani, Anthocorid bug, chrysoperla sp., entamopathogenic Nematode (EPN), Paecilomyces lilacinus Plft5 (Pl55), Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Glomus fasciculatum, Trichoderma viride and Trichoderma harzianum are effective for eco-friendly management of major insect pests of cardamom - shoot and capsule borer, thrips, root grubs and nematode as well as major diseases of cardamom- capsule rot/panicle rot, clump rot and Fusarium rot. These technologies were widely disseminated among farmers Fusarium rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents by farmer Mr. Manikandan by ICAR-KVK, Idukki through various activities. This has led farmers to adopt ICAR-NBAIR technologies for eco-friendly management of small cardamom thereby reduced usage of chemical pesticides, saved expenditure on plant protection, grown healthy crop, harvested quality produce and brought small cardamom production system sustainable. In fact, eco-friendly technologies and practices are low input demanding, energy efficient and cause little or minimum disturbance to the production system. As the demand for organic spices is increasing among consumers at the rate of 20% annually, ICAR-NBAIR technologies played a pivotal role in Idukki district for producing and exporting safer small cardamom and its value-added products to the domestic and world market. *Corresponding author email: sudhakarsounda@gmail.com Physical chemistry of soil and soil mineralogy are the two pillars which form the basic foundation of soil science. Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility. To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute.