 The issue has already been addressed at agenda 5.3. Agenda 7.22: Advance training to Faculty members MPPCVV, Jabalpur mentioned that a revised PG course curriculum of ICAR adopted by the university includes many advance courses, which needs regular advance trainings to faculty members at National/International level. The suggestion was made to provide the facilities of NAARM, Hyderabad. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.23: Provision of Post Doctoral Fellowship NDRI, Karnal emphasised upon introducing Post Doctoral Fellowship for at least one seat in each discipline of DUs. The committee constituted for realisation of fee structure and bench fee for foreign students will be finalising it along with the operational guidelines. Agenda 7.24: Faculty and student exchange programme OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda. As discussed earlier, the faculty and students may take the benefit of scheme already existing. Agenda 7.25: ARS/NET Examination and Performance of ARS OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda emphasising upon organising a training programme at each University level to create awareness among PG students for new ARS/NET Examination. The point has already been addressed. Agenda 7.26: Sending in-service teachers abroad for completing doctorate programmes PAU, Ludhiana presented the agenda proposing that inter-institutional arrangements be revived with universities of international standing in the USA, for which ICAR 21 could provide the necessary financial assistance. The point has already been discussed. Agenda 7.27: Central Recruitment Policy for SAUs RAU, Pusa emphasised upon the need of recruiting at least 50% faculty position through Central Recruitment Agency (ASRB) to enhance the teaching quality as well as check the inbreeding. The proposal was not agreed to. However, the interested AUs may out-source it to ASRB. Agenda 7.28: Weightage should be given to students of rural background in Admission at UG level RAU, Pusa emphasised on provision of weightage for students of rural background in admission at UG level. The point was noted. Agenda 7.29: Provision of merit-cum means scholarships for UG students RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. The issue has already been discussed. Agenda 7.30: Organization of short term training programs/courses, for entrepreneurship development RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. The committee constituted under the chairmanship of Dr SL Mehta is looking into the matter. Agenda 7.31: Inter-university transfer of interested students amongst SAUs RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. The issue has already been discussed at length. Agenda 7.32: Compulsory use of electronic media/computerized teaching for imparting instructions RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. The issue has already been discussed. Agenda 7.33: Inclusion of different specialized agricultural discipline subjects viz., Agronomy, Plant breeding, Soil science, Agriculture Engineering and Veterinary subjects etc.