 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Giloy: A multipurpose plant The leaves of giloy or Tinospora cordifolia are used in preparation with other ingredients to cure disorders of the respiratory, nervous and digestive systems. According to Ankush Sud, consuming giloy leaves with sugar cures acidity, and with ghee or purified butter, it cures constipation. Taken along with honey, it cures cough, and with dry ginger, it alleviates body ache. Manoj Dhimaan says that the leaves of brahmi and giloy should be boiled together till they from a semi-solid mass, and given to help mentally challenged people recover. The extract of the leaves should be mixed with ilaychi and honey, and given to patients suffering from tuberculosis. The brew from boiling giloy leaves and black salt in water can be helpful in curing fever and removing impurities from the blood (Una, Himachal Pradesh). Dariyal (1998) 2 Biodiversity management There are several sacred groves dedicated to the temples spread over different villages. Communities jealously protect these groves against interference of any kind. These groves are excellent examples of biodiversity conservation. For example, it was religiously prohibited to cut any vegetation from the lands in the immediate vicinity of temples and religious places known as oran (protected forest) lands. Collection of dry wood only was allowed for fuel and serious punishment was prescribed for using axe in orans. In Barmar, Jaisalmer, Naguar, Jodhpur, Pali, Sikar, Jhunjhunu and Jalore districts of Rajastan there are still 420 orans covering a total areas of 100 -140 ha (Rajasthan). Malhotra (1988) 3 Preparation of traditional tea Dried leaves of shilphori (Bergenia ciliata) ground into powder, which is a good substitute for tea leaves (Central Himalayas of India). Maikhuri et al. (2000) 287 14 Methods of Weather Forecasting S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Forecasting rain and frost (i) Ants coming out from their nest carrying their purpae, indicates that rain will come soon.Goats can sense approaching rain, and through behavioural changes signal the coming 2 to 3 days in advance. They change their usual resting places, show little interest in taking food or water, and bawl and shout the day long. (ii) If the neem (Azadirachta indica) tree bears plenty of fruit and the baval (Acacia nilotica) tree produces plenty of pods, then the total rainfall for the monsoon will be high. (iii) If there is a rain on seventh day of next fortnight of the month Shravan, there is a high chance of frost that winter and if rain comes on eighth day of next fortnight of month Shravan (the day called Janmashthami) the chance of frost that winter will be low. Using this method, farmers decide whether or not to go for late sowing (Amreli, Gujarat).