 Seed crop should be harvested Steps in aeroponic seed production system Aeroponics Indian Horticulture 20 bottles and manually harvest the green microtubers. Avoid damaging the microtubers, especially the thin periderm during harvest. The harvested microtubers are then washed and treated with 0.25% mancozeb for 10 min, and allowed to dry in the dark at 20°C for 2 days. Grading of microtubers in <4 m, 4-6 mm and >6 mm should be done while packing. Pack the treated microtubers in perforated polythene covers and store in a refrigerator for 4-5 months until planting. Take out the microtubers from the refrigerator after about 1 month before planting for breaking the dormancy. Aeroponic seed production system The conventional system is quite effective but it has low multiplication rate and higher field exposure which increases the risk of viral infection. Keeping this in view, tissue culture based system of quality seed production was integrated with breeder seed production programme. The conventional way of producing potato minitubers through micro propagation is to multiply in vitro material in insect proof net houses. The conventional method uses substrate made of soil and mixture of various components. This method usually produces 10-12 minitubers per plant depending on cultivar. The aeroponic system offers the potential to increase production in terms of number of minitubers per plant from 3-4 times. Aeroponics is the process of growing plants in an air mist environment without the use of soil or an aggregate medium. Aeroponic system mainly consists of an electrical unit, light proof growth chambers, nutrient solution chamber, high pressure pump, filters and spray nozzles. Interiors of growth chambers are covered with black lining to avoid any light to the root zone of plants. Aeroponic unit can be placed under insect-proof net house under natural conditions or under controlled environment conditions. For aeroponics, in vitro grown 15-21 days old microplants are required to be hardened before shifting to this system. For hardening, microplants are allowed gradually to acclimatize to the outside conditions and are kept at 25-27oC for 7-10 days. These hardened plantlets of about 15 cm height are planted in the holes made in the roof of the grow boxes of the aeroponic unit. All essential nutrient elements required for the plant growth are dissolved in water in nutrient 15 to 20 days after haulms cutting when the tuber skin is hardened. The seed tubers thus produced are minitubers. Curing is done by keeping the seed tubers in heap for about 15 to 20 days in a cool shady place. After curing, the seed tuber should be graded into >3 g and treated with 3% boric acid solution for 10-15 minutes to prevent surface borne pathogen inoculum. Minitubers harvested from microplants (Generation-0) are called as nucleus seed. Store the minitubers in country store in hills while cold store at 3-4ºC in the plains.