34 q/ha) and minimum in Kufri Pukhraj (203.99 q/ha) with similar management practices. The better crop performance under microsprinkler could be attributed to the minimum influence of frost, white fly and nutrient leaching. Frequent irrigation with microsprinklers washed the leaf canopy and minimized the whitefly infestation. Apart from this, microsprinkler irrigation might have created a better microclimate, which facilitated better plant growth and photosynthesis and thus resulted in higher tuber yield. Further, during December at the tuberization stage, minimum temperature was as low as 5-12°C for few days. Microsprinkler irrigation system protect the crop from the adverse effects of low temperatures by sprinkling water droplets on the leaves, which help in better growth, early maturity and higher tuber yield as compared to drip system of irrigation. In sandy soils, root system was also very fibrous and extensively distributed in soil horizons, which might be helpful in better absorption of moisture and nutrients. Continued from Cover II Potato Cultivation... March–April 2024 7 For obtaining better market price, the size and quality of tuber play a vital role. In this investigation, the maximum tubers (>76%) were in the large size of grading (>75 g) in all varieties irrespective of irrigation systems. The medium and small sizes tubers were very less and together constitute <24%. Besides, the shape and colour of tubers were also very attractive. The colour of tubers was light golden. While harvesting if pulls out the plant, almost all tubers are hanging without much adhering soils. This shows that potato crop can be cultivated well under sandy soils of arid region with proper management. Economic viability Adoption and sustainability of any crop in new areas not only depends on its climatic suitability and productivity but also on economic viability and practical feasibility of cultivation practices. Since this was a new introduction in a hot arid region, therefore, simple economics based on prevailing rates for inputs and output in the local market was calculated. The management practices and input used under both irrigation systems were the same, thus, the cultivation cost in form of gross input was ₹ 69,500/ha for each cultivar. Only based on gross output the net return varied (Table 1). The net return was higher under microsprinkler system as compared to drip irrigation system, due to higher tuber yield/ha in almost all the cultivars under sprinkler system of irrigation. The highest net return was obtained by the cultivation of Kufri Chipsona-4 under microsprinkler system (₹ 1,17,664/ha) followed by Kufri Frysona (₹ 98,403/ha) and Kufri Jyoti (₹ 93,271/ha) and minimum in Kufri Khyati (₹ 66,172/ha). Whereas, under the drip system, the highest net return was obtained is Kufri Frysona (₹82,878/ha) followed by Kufri Chipsona-4 (₹ 80,536/ha) and minimum in Kufri Khyati (₹ 471,49/ha).