 Keywords: foot disease, karela (Momordica charantia) leaves, alum To cure foot and mouth disease in cattle, water from dead animals' leather, which is secreted during the processing of leather to improve quality, is collected. This water is separated and kept in earthen pot and given when the animals suffer from foot and mouth disease. The efficacy of this treatment is 60-70%. Keywords: leather water, earthen pot Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rameshwar Dayal, S/o Shri Mohan Lai, Bishesharpur, Joytijagir. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bhup Ram, S/o Shri Sohan Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3399 Remedy for FMD in animals 3400 Use of hedgehog to cure foot and mouth disease in cattle 3401 Remedy to cure FMD in catle Required amount (about 50 g) of rhizome of Curcuma longa (haldi) is taken and crushed to powder. Sufficient quantity of salt is added to lukewarm water to prepare a decoction. The tongue and toes of the affected animals are washed daily with this lukewarm water. The turmeric powder is sprayed on the toes and tongue daily for 10-12 days. Keywords: tongue, rhizome, lukewarm, toe Thorns (spines) of dead sherio (hedgehog), a small creature having thorny body cover are collected and burnt and the smoke is allowed to pass through the body of the animal suffering from FMD. Keywords: sherio, hedgehog, placenta, flatulence 1. In this, 50 g resin of dhak (Butea spp.) tree is mixed with 50 ml latex of Euphorbia sp. along with 50 g alum. This mixture is applied inside the mouth of the infected animal. About 15-20 g gum is used for each dose, three times a day, for 2-3 days. 2. The bark of Acacia nilotica tree is another material used to treat FMD. The bark is boiled in water along with a little alum (phitkari) and filtered. The filtrate when lukewarm is poured on the hooves of the affected animal. The same filtrate is also used to wash the insides of the animal's mouth. The extract may also be prepared without alum. 3. Plain table salt solution is used as a topical application. The salt is dissolved in water, which is heated to a temperature that the animal Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Lakhabhai B. Khatana, Bhavnagar (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Udaikishore Sharma, Roosolgarh (Pahasu), Bulandarshahr (Uttar Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.