 A collaborative research program of NDDB with Central Cattle Breeding & Research Farm has reported birth of Sahiwal calf from transfer of Sahiwal embryo to crossbred Jersy(https:// www.indiatoday.in/education-today/gk-current-affairs/story/india-calf-jammu-and-kashmir- embryo-transplanted). 4.7. Semen Sexing A total of 12 semen stations in different states viz. Gujarat, Haryana, Kerala, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Uttar Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Punjab and Himachal Pradesh have been established. The use of sex-sorted semen will not only enhance milk production but also crucial in limiting population of male cattle/ stray cattle. At parallel, ABS Technology (website genusabsindia.com) claims to make available sexed semen of Sahiwal, Gir and Red Sindhi bulls in India. The sperm cell sorters have employed at Bengal, Kerala, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand, which are producing sexed semen for use of AI. Also, the use of sexed semen of exotic breeds is becoming popular in some Indian states like Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and West Bengal. However, the high cost and poor pregnancy rates are the limiting factors that have prevented the wider use of sexed semen. 5. Cattle Breeding Initiatives by Govt. of India 5.1. Pre-independence scenario During this period many committees having experts from agriculture and animal science were constituted by the Government of India for suggesting means and ways for bringing 35 improvement in livestock sector. Imperial Institute of Animal Husbandry and Dairying was established at Bangalore in 1923, which was subsequently shifted to Karnal and renamed as National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI). Royal Commission on Agriculture (RCA) in 1926, suggested that the type of cow most suitable for the farmers in the villages would be the one which would produce a strong calf (future bullock) and yield around 1000 to 1500 pounds (450 to 680 kg) of milk per lactation for each household. For cities, the aim was to produce a high yielding cow with a production level of 8000 pounds (3600 kg) of milk per annum but not the dual-purpose animal. RCA anticipated that commercial dairy farms were likely to resort to crossbreeding in future, and therefore, advised that government agricultural department should not take up experiments on crossbreeding and should aim to improve the milking qualities of indigenous breeds like Sahiwal, Red Sindhi and other breeds. Later, the two animal husbandry experts Norman Wright (1937) and Oliver (1938), who were invited by the Government, also opposed adoption of crossbreeding and strongly recommended improvement of indigenous stock by means of selective breeding, better feeding and improved management. In 1944, the Government invited another expert, Mr. Pepperall to advice dairy development in India. He recommended improvement of indigenous cattle breeds and indigenous buffalo to accelerate milk production.