 India as a founder member of SAARC, BRICS, BIMSTEC shaped regional cooperation in agricultural R&D with member Nations. The agreements between the Governments of India and 359 International and National Collaborations Israel led to establishment of high-tech farm demonstration unit at IARI in 1996 and later the Centre of Excellence (CoE) for Horticulture in the States under MIDH. The Hi-tech Centre and CoEs served as demonstration and training center for latest technologies for protected cultivation. More recently in 2021, BRICS-ARP for collaborations and exchange of information and ideas for research and innovations amongst BRICS countries was established and made operational in India. ICAR also established collaborates with UN Agencies like FAO, UNDP, UN-CAPSA and many organizations such as CABI, NACA, APAARI, APCAEM, ISTA and ISHS. These collaborations resulted 54 foreign aided projects on ground in 2019-20. India made an impressive foot print in its neighborhood through the establishment of ANASTU in Afghanistan, ACARE in Myanmar and Deemed University for Agricultural Education in Nepal. Besides, several initiatives and fellowships implemented in Africa. The ICAR-Industry collaborations that started in 1990s, have been extended for technology dissemination, upscaling and validation. The international collaboration and its implementation sharpened after 2014 with creation of International Relations (IR) Division in ICAR. 1. Introduction In a man-machine-animal-plant-competing world, the sustainable development of agriculture & allied sectors took the central stage in all planned efforts for the progress in an agrarian economy like India. The agriculture and allied activities, otherwise also, was the major source for economic growth at the time of independence as evidenced by their lion’s share in the Nation’s GDP. Amongst the various subsectors of agriculture, cropping enjoyed the centrality immediately after the independence for ensuring the food security. Gradually, agriculture diversified towards allied activities for raw materials like textiles, dairying, logging, fishing, etc. Agriculture, in its entirety, have been pivotal for ensuring food security to all on a given geography and income for those who opt it as a primary occupation. As the population grew and income increased, the dietary intake and demand diversified and consumption also increased which has to be met through the finite land and water resources. The luxury of abundance of these resources started drying up and stresses to plant, animal and mankind started escalating due to their over exploitation. The agriculture research through well-orchestrated national and international collaborations helped the country’s efforts to address the food security concerns, raising the income of the farmers and livelihood support to those who depend on the farms and farm related activities.