 • For ameliorating micronutrient deficiency in vegetables, crop-specific multi micronutrient formulation ‘KashiSookshma-Shakti’ has been prepared, which increases yield by 12-38% in different vegetable crops. 95 Horticultural Science 95 • Production technologies for sustainable cultivation of vegetables such as conservation tillage, organic farming, integrated nutrient management, protected cultivation, drip &fertigationetc. have been standardized in a gamut of vegetable crops. • Development of grafting technology in vegetables for catering the needs of urban farming, improving yield and mitigating biotic and abiotic stressesunder changing climatic conditions. • Integrated pest management technologies have been developed for the management of major diseases and pests of vegetables crops. • A wide range of value-added products of vegetables have been developed with the aim to reduce produce losses and provide alternative food products to consumers. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Five patented technologies pertaining to value added products are available for commercialization viz., Process for shelf stable low-fat tomato-whey soup, Process and composition for preparing instant bottle gourd kheer mix, Moringa soup mix and process thereof, Moringa drink mix powder and implementation thereof and Process for preparation of dried green chilli powder. • Transfer of technologies to the farmers and other stakeholders through capacity building, demonstration, field day, showcasing. • Development of grafting technology in vegetables. Tomato var. Kashi Adarsh Brinjal var. Kashi Manohar 96 ICAR Institutes Profile 96 ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NRCB, Somarasempettai - Thogaimalai Rd, Thayanur, Tamil Nadu 620102 ii. Name of the Director: Dr (Mrs.) S Uma (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.nrcb@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 0431-2618125 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research on genetic resource management, crop improvement and production technologies for sustainable and enhanced production and utilization of banana. • National banana gene bank management, coordination and validation of research for enhancing and sustaining the productivity of banana. • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhanced and sustained production of banana. • Referral Laboratory for monitoring the quality of micro-propagated banana plants. Activities • Improving banana through conventional and molecular breeding approaches and exploiting the genetic resources to tackle biotic and abiotic stresses and developing nutritionally rich bananas to meet the demand of food and nutritional security. • Use of novel technologies like bioreactors to produce quality TC bananas on a large scale to meet increasing demand.