 ICAR-NDRI Karnal, and some state government institutions such as Uttarakhand Livestock Development Board (ULDB) are working on augmenting production of indigenous livestock. Animal Breeding Farm of Kalsi under ULDB provides pure Red Sindhi, and crossbreed Jersy x Red Sindhi males for genetic improvement of hill cattle of the region. The farm produces Red Sindhi calves through embryo transfer. Red Sindhi cows at this farm have milk production of more than 4200 kg per lactation. Around 141 pure Red Sindhi ETT calves are reported from the centre. Red Sindhi cows developed at this farm have milk production of more than 4200 kg per lactation (https://rkvy.nic.in/Uploads/Success Story/ UTTARAKHAND/2017). 4.6. Ovum Pick-up and in-vitro Fertilization (OPU-IVF) Technology A technique for in-vitro embryo production (IVEP) has been made available as a tool for utilization of the indigenous cow oocyte / gamete pool for enhancing the maternal contribution to genetic improvement. Ovum Pick-Up (OPU) is the only OPU-IVF Sahiwal calf ‘Holi’ produced at the ICAR- NDRI, Karnal Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 34 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR means for collecting oocytes from live animals of known pedigree; further this technique also enables repeated collection of oocytes from live animals on a weekly or biweekly basis over a long period of time. When using in-vitro procedures, average rate of blastocyst formation is around 30-40% and calf production is 10-15%. The indigenous cattle of high genetic merit available in GAUSHALA which are clinically sub-fertile or aged or those which do not respond to conventional ETT procedures, this is the only technology which may help in obtaining high value oocytes for using in IVF and embryo production. The embryos generated through OPU- IVF are to be transferred to surrogate mother and elite calf can be produced. At NDRI, Karnal out of the 73 oocytes collected by OPU from Indian cattle breeds subjected to IVM and IVF, 24 reached to 2-4 cell stage at day 2 post-fertilization, with a cleavage rate of 33%. The study demonstrated the use of OPU as a means of obtaining developmentally competent oocytes from an Indian breed of cattle (Manik et al. 2003). The OPU-IVF technology was successfully established and demonstrated by the birth to India’s first female Sahiwal calf named ‘Holi’ from an aged animal in 2007 at ICAR-NDRI, Karnal. The OPU derived Sahiwal oocytes were matured in-vitro to yield blastocysts in a study at G.B. Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar in 2005. A recent report of JK Bovagenix (JK Trust), an NGO working in the field of animal husbandry, established 94 IVF pregnancies from a Gir Donor cow ‘GAURI’ in a span of 16 months (https://timesofindia.indiatimes. com/india/moo-over-nature-gauri-donor-mothers-better-cows/articleshow/72990160.cms).