 The genetic diversity of various horticultural crops will be collected from different eco-regions, characterized and utilized to develop varieties for higher yields, quality and biotic and abiotic stresses. The action points /success indicators include production of quality seed and planting materials. Objective 4. Strengthening of frontline agricultural extension system and addressing gender issues The success indicators with respect to assessment of technology through OFTs is measured by the actual number of technologies assessed by conducting on farm trials. Capacity building and trainings organized are measured with the actual numbers of such programme / activities undertaken by the KVKs. Regarding support for promoting gender issues is measured through the success indicators of actual number of gender related technology promotion programmes conducted by the DRWA. Objective 5. IP management and commercialization of technologies With respect to commercialization of technologies and promoting public-private partnership, it is envisaged to bring commercial ethos in agricultural research. Indicators for commercialization of page : 16 of 21 Generated on : 30/03/2012 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology Results-Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research and Education -(2012- 2013) technologies, promoting public-private partnership, and protection of intellectual property rights will be determined by the commercialization through partnership development, including licensing of ICAR technologies. The increasing numbers over the years may indicate a higher emphasis on technology transfer through enterprises; thereby contributing to larger adoption and improved socioeconomic impact of ICAR technologies. Objective 6. Assessment and monitoring of fishery resources To enhance fish production and productivity on a sustainable basis from the available resources, and to address the issues and strategies to overcome the critical research gaps in realizing the full production potential from fisheries and aquaculture sector, the research activities have been consolidated and prioritized. The action points and the success indicators under this objective have been identified depending on the priority and availability of the resources and the needs and requirements of the stakeholders. It is expected that by undertaking these programmes, there would be an increase in fish production, conservation of resources, more opportunities for livelihood and employment generation. Objective 7. Development of vaccines and diagnostics The production of diagnostic kits and vaccines would involve delineation of process (processes) and thereby denoting a specific number for field testing / validation. Objective 8.