 A part from this, the brief information about the trainees is collected to know their socio-economic profile. It is to ensure that the redesigned course schedule fits to the aspirations of the participant trainees as well as their prevailing socio-economic conditions. Pre training test: The effectiveness of training programmes with respect to the perception, knowledge and skill level of the trainees may be done through pre- and post-evaluation. Pre-evaluation guides the trainers to modify their training programmes as per needs of the clientele. Course evaluation: This is conducted after the training programme to obtain the feedback from the trainees about the training programme, training facilities, trainer, training equipment, subject matter as well as the shortcomings, scope and suggestions for improvement. The trainees may keep their identity secret while filling the course evaluation forms. Accordingly, doubts/ comments of the trainees are to be cleared during the feedback session. Based on the feedback data, the training programmes are to be modified from time to time to fit in to the needs of the trainees. 124 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Feedback: The ex-trainees of KVK may be randomly selected to know how far the learned technologies/skills are utilized in their back-home situations. This exercise may enable to identify the successful utilization of technologies/enterprises as well as their proper documentation. 10.1.10 Extension programmes Designing and implementation of appropriate extension strategies are essential for individual, group and mass awareness about technologies and practices that can address identified problems. Some of the methods are as follows: Individual contact ●Individual need analysis ●Interface visits ●Farm Advisory Group contacts ●Community need analysis ●Farmer group discussion/meetings ●Method/interactive demonstrations ●Field days ●Agricultural seminars ●Workshops ●Celebration of important events ●Visits and advisory Mass contact ●Farmers’ Fairs and Exhibitions ●Media utilization (both print and electronic) ●Extension literature ●Technology week ●Campaign 10.1.11 Technological products KVK should give priority for production of newer seeds/seedlings/livestock strains/bio products etc, which are important and suitable for the district. ● Ensuring quality of technological products produced at site ●Quality seeds, planting material, livestock, fish fingerlings, bio-products etc. should be produced in KVK instructional farm with revolving fund and should be provided to the farmers. For large-scale promotion of these quality materials, skill training may be given to rural youth/ farm women/progressive farmers.