 Crop breeders, pathologists, seed production technologists, quality assurance and the sales and marketing personnel trained within the country or abroad are not only manning these departments within MNC’s but also within Indian companies. The job opportunities in these areas have grown several folds since the OGL act in 1989 and the efforts of these personnel have helped improve both production and productivity by two to four folds in several crops. Admittedly the impact has been on major vegetable crops only, especially where hybrid vigour was possible because by marketing hybrids seeds, companies have an inherent protection of their IP’s. These crops are Okra, Tomato, Hot and Sweet Pepper, tropical Cauliflower where breeding was taken up in India from germplasm development to hybrids. Other crops where hybrids are ruling the market are Cabbage, Watermelon, Melon, Bittergourd, Cucumber, Sweet Corn, Baby Corn, Beet Root and a few others. However, in these crops breeding is done abroad, and hybrids are tested in India to select the best for various markets. Focus on the crops where heterosis is not enough and hence OP varieties is the main advancement avenue haven’t so far been addressed by the sector, e.g. legume vegetables. This is of late changing as the IP scenario is getting more robust. Crop wise key progress made by private sector is presented below. Major milestones from private sector efforts in India on vegetables With the advent of in-house research, each company recruited accomplished breeders to lead their crop breeding and established a clear target approach in their planning. The targets were fixed through discussions with the company’s key sales and marketing teams and from that evolved what are known as Product market segments that have enough commercial value to support in-house research investment. This is one of the key success factors of the private sector as they found clear gaps in the crops where there was market potential and delivered products on time bound plans. Focus was to collect germplasm from within the company’s own and from various germplasm repositories around the globe and based on that developed a screening platform to select appropriate lines followed by recombinant breeding to create new lines, go through top crossing and combining ability tests to identify superior inbreds that became parents of successful hybrids in tomato, okra, peppers, tropical cauliflowers. Around 1993 (5 years after the OGL act) and beyond when hybrids from these in-house efforts in these crops started to roll out and found acceptance by farmers. Among these crops, cauliflower is the one that took the longest time. Initial tropical cauliflower hybrids were commercialized around 2005 but the real ground breakers are only 5 to 7 years old. Details of how market driven breeding is conducted under private sector can be found in the recently published book on ‘Market Driven Plant Breeding for Practicing Breeders’ by Aparna Tiwari et al.