 The questions are: (1) In general, we consider ourselves happy; (2) Compared to my peer farmers, we consider ourselves happy; (3) In most ways, our lives are close to our ideal; (4) We are satisﬁed with the technology we use in our agricultural practices; (5) We are satisﬁed with the technology used by our peer farmers; (6) The use of CSAT has helped us to get most of the things we wanted in life; (7) The use of CSAT has helped us to get better of our counterpart; (8) The use of CSAT has stabilized our farm income; (9) Compared to our neighbours, our farm income is more stable; (10) Most people are happy in their lives irrespective of what is going on; you identify yourself (your family) as one among them. An index is con- structed by using the household response to the above-mentioned ques- tions through the principal component analysis (PCA)5 method. The construction of the index through the PCA method is described as follows: HIðPCAÞ ¼  P n i¼1 λiPi  P n i¼1 λi (1) where I ¼ 1, 2,10, Pi's are the Principal Components (deﬁned as normalized linear combinations) of attributes with correlation co- efﬁcients between Pi and Pj as zero, λi's are eigenvalues of the correlation matrix of different dimensions, and λ1> λ2 > … > λn. Once the index is created, it is standardized as follows: HI ¼ Actual value  Minimum value Maximum value  Minimum value Further, the present study has identiﬁed 18 different types of CSAT practices adopted by the farmers of Odisha. Therefore, a CSAT adaptation Table 2 (continued) Variable Description Nature of variable Knowledge about the CSAT Level of education It is the level of education that the HH has completed. Qualitative: Reference category: Illiterate Dummy, 1 ¼ primary (7th or less), 0 ¼ otherwise Dummy, 1 ¼ secondary (8th to 12th), 0 ¼ otherwise Dummy, 1 ¼ higher (above 12th), 0 ¼ otherwise Level of land index (LLI) It is the total land owned by a household divided by the maximum land owned among all the households. Ratio: 0 LLI 1 Categorical: Lower ¼ LLI 0.25 Moderate ¼ 0.251  LLI 0.50 Higher ¼ 0.501  LLI 0.75 Highest ¼ LLI 0.751 Reasons for females not using the CSAT. The reasons for which females not using CSAT: 1. Not Women-friendly, 2. No adequate skill 3. Socio-cultural reasons Qualitative: Reference Category: Women using CSAT Gender-wise agricultural decision Agricultural decision taken by the household: 1. Male, 2. Female, 3. Both Male and Female Qualitative: Reference Category: Male Dummy, 1 ¼ Female, 0 ¼ otherwise Dummy, 2 ¼ Both, 0 ¼ otherwise Gender-wise land ownership Land owned by the household: 0. No land 1. Male, 2. Female, 3. Both Male and Female Qualitative: Reference Category: No land Dummy, 1 ¼ Male, 0 ¼ otherwise Dummy, 2 ¼ Female, 0 ¼ otherwise Dummy, 3 ¼ Both, 0 ¼ otherwise 5 For a detailed discussion on PCA see Kumar et al. (2007) D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 7 index (CSATAI) is developed to understand the intensity of the use of CSAT by a farming household.