 A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 379 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 240 Syzygium cuminii Balck berry H- Jaman M-Jaman Tel-Necreedu G-Zamli T-Naval Kan-Nerate Mal-Naval O-Jamo P-Jammu Vitamins presents are V-4 (80-IA), and malic acid is the major acid (0.59% of the weight of fruit). Malic acid and tannin accounts for astringency of fruit. Oleanolic acid is also found in the flower. Glucose and fructose are principal sugar in the ripe fruits.The stem bark contains betulinic acid, beta-sitosteral. The leaves are palatable fodder for cattle, sheep and goats. The seeds are used as feed for livestock. The seeds may be used as a replacement for oil cakes in animal feed upto 75%. The bark is used in dyeing and tanning and for coloring fishnets. Extract of bark stems, leaves, buds and flowers possess moderate antibiotic activity against Micrococus pyogeries var. aureus. Extract of the leaves also showed moderate activity against Escherichia coli. Bark is astringent and is used in the preparation of gargles and mouth wash. Decoction of bark and leaves are used for treatment of diabetes. The bark extract has an effect on glycogenolysis and glycogen storage in animals. The fruits are used in the treatment of diabetes. Extract of the bark is toxic to Piricularia oryzae and physalospora tucumanensis. Large evergreen tree attaining 30m in height and 3.6 m in girth with bole up to 15 m, found through out India, up to an altitude of 1800 m. The flowers are greenish-white, fragrant, in trichotomus panicles. The tree grows widely in differing localities, but is generally found in streams and in damped places. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 380 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 241 Tamarindus indica Tamarind H-Imli B-Tentul M-Chinch G-Amli Tel-Chinta-chette T-Puli Kan-Huli Mal-Puli O-Tentuli P-Imbli Invert sugar (30–40%) is the most important constituent. Tartaric acid is the principal acid in the pulp. Pulp is much used in the Indian medicine as a refrigerant, carminative and laxative and is also commonly prescribed in febrile diseases and billious disorders. The pulp is also reported to posses antiseptic and is recommended as a poultice on inflammatory swelling. Ground seed is useful for cattle feed. The seeds particularly the testae are astringent and are used to cure diarrhoea and dysentery. Infusion of the leaves is cooling and useful in billious fever. The bark is astringent and is given in diarrhoea. The leaves contain glycosides, bitaxin, orientin and iso-orientin.