 Tractor-operated Straw Chopper-cum-Spreader To solve the problem of rice-straw management, for its incorporation in the soil, the PAU, Ludhiana centre, has developed a tractor-operated, straw-chopping machine. The machine harvests straw and chops it into pieces for spreading in the field in a single operation. The chopped and spread stubbles are buried easily in the soil by traditional disc-harrows in 2 operations. The straw chopper can be operated by a 40–45-hp tractor, and can chop straw to 5-cm length and spread it in the field. The field capacity of the machine has been found as 4.00 ha/day. PROTOTYPE FEASIBILITY TESTING Tractor-mounted Rotavator The machine has showed promise for seed-bed preparation in a single or double pass compared to 3–4 operations in the conventional method of the seed-bed preparation. Tractor-mounted Pulverizing Roller-attachment PAU, Ludhiana centre, has developed a pulverizing roller-attachment to 9-tine cultivator. It is suitable for puddling as well as for dry seed-bed preparation. Performance of equipment at higher speed of 4–5 km/hr is better because of churning action of the soil. The equipment could cover 2.5–3.0 ha/day with 70–90% of field efficiency and saved one-third of the irrigation water, because of better puddling. It saves 40% in labour requirement and 20% in cost of operation over the traditional method. ANGRAU Hydrotiller It churns wet soil and levels field thus reducing labour (6 man-hr/ha) for levelling puddled soil. Its field capacity was 0.18 ha/hr with field efficiency of 94% and cost of operation was Rs 311/ha compared to 0.15 ha/hr, 81% and Rs 516/ha, respectively, of the power-tiller. The cost of puddling operation by this was 40% lesser than power-tiller. l Prototype feasibility testing done on tractor-mounted rotavator, pulverizing roller attachment, ANGRAU Hydrotiller, zero-till drill and light weight power-weeder. l Evaluated self-propelled vertical conveyor-reaper for rice and wheat. The saving in cost by this was 24% in harvesting and 60.5% in labour requirement. A pulverizing roller attachment to 9-tine cultivator has been developed at the PAU centre. It saves 40% on labour and 20% over cost of operation 26.02.03 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 142 ANGRAU Animal-drawn Puddler in NEH Region The ANGRAU animal-drawn puddler was operated by the ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Barapani centre in the valley lands of watershed in Mawpun village of Ri-Bhoi district of Megyalaya. This puddled soil was better than the soil puddled with local plough. It saved 80% in labour and 72% in operational cost as compared to bullock-drawn country plough. The field efficiency was 65%. Tractor-mounted Zero-till Drill for Peas The sowing of pea for seed-grain purposes under the sodic saline soils could be advanced by 9–12 days with the zero-till drill.