 bamboo and wood to maintain required body temperature to curb the chick mortality because of cold stress which is otherwise a major problem in the climatic condition of Sikkim. To maintain the temperature in brooder, she used 100 watt bulbs. The movement of the chicks was restricted nearer the heat source with the help of chicks guard made with card board. Before taking up the enterprise she built a semi- permanent house with rough pucca floor, 2 feet brick wall with wire net in uncovered upper portion of the poultry house. She initially started with more than 360 sq. ft. area of size 18 x 20 feet. She also put some wooden nest box inside the house to control the scattered egg laying. The total cost involvement of poultry house was Rs. 10,000/-. Mrs. Sharma used hay, pieces of straw, dry leaves, rice husk etc. as a litter material. In nursery, chicks were reared on standard broiler starter ration. In the second phase, she fed the growing birds with vegetable wastes, grass and other kinds of locally available grains like maize and rice polish besides the feed material available from free range. She made available fresh and clean water at all times in bamboo made watering and feeding trough. Mrs. Sharma also periodically supplemented the birds with multivitamin (Ambiplex @ 1ml /lt of water) and during laying period calcium supplement regularly (Calcicare @ 1ml/lt of drinking water).After attaining maturity (3-4 months) she sells her extra male birds @ Rs. 220/ kg live weight and egg @ Rs. 10/ egg at local market. Income generated per annum by selling the product vis-à-vis cost of production per unit: Enterprise Breed Stock per batch Expenditure (Rs.) Income (Rs.) Profit (Rs.) B:C ratio Backyard poultry farming Gramapriya 60 14,446/- 25,720/- 11,274 1.78 490 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Success story on rural entrepreneurship development through pig farming Sri Mandip Rai a progressive educated rural youth of Nandok village of East Sikkim district. Previously he was working in Dubai as a sales man but 3 years ago he came back to his home place to do something agricultural related work in his own land. He has 2 ha land in his homestead and wanted to do integrated farming activity. Later he was engaging himself in agriculture, horticulture and livestock farm activity like dairy and backyard poultry. Initially, KVK supplied a total of 45 piglets among 15 farmers i.e. 3 nos. of weaned piglets of 2 months old (2: female + 1: male) to each beneficiaries of the adopted village as first line beneficiaries. Before taking up the enterprise Mr. Rai built a semi- permanent pig house with rough pucca floor and 2 feet brick side wall. He initially started a pig shed of 5 compartments of equal size (8 x 8 ft. of each compartment) with the necessary guidance of the SMS (Animal Sc.).