 Prohexadione-calcium (Pro- Ca), a gibberellin biosynthesis blocker, has also been Vishal B Mhetre, V B Patel*, S K Singh and M K Verma Research Indian Horticulture 20 Use of plant bioregulators in tackling uneven ripening in grape Several attempts have been made to overcome this problem, such as the regulation of crops by using cultural practices like girdling, ringing, thinning, and exogenous treatments with plant bioregulators. These approaches have shown some encouraging results in the improvement of grape quality. The grape variety ‘Flame Seedless’ has been recommended for commercial cultivation in North Indian states such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, and other neighbouring states. Beauty Seedless is another cultivar that has the potential to be grown commercially in these North Indian conditions. Berries of the Flame Seedless cultivar are light red coloured, while in the Beauty Seedless cultivar, they are dark-red coloured. Both these cultivars ripen during the first week of June to the third week of June in these regions. However, as stated earlier, berry ripening is uneven within the cluster, resulting in unattractive, uneven-coloured, sour-green, and inferior-quality berries in North Indian viticulture. Being a gaseous hormone, ethylene is available in the market as an aqueous solution of Ethrel® (Ethephon 39 SL) (39% w/w). When Ethrel solution is sprayed on the grape berries, it penetrates the berry skin and is translocated and progressively decomposed to ethylene, which positively influences the berry ripening and colour development. Recently, the study found that the application of plant bioregulators such as abscisic acid (400 ppm) and ethylene (400 ppm) at the veraison stage (berry starts ripening stage) improved the colour of the grape berries in Beauty Seedless and Flame Seedless varieties under North Indian semi-arid subtropical conditions. Furthermore, since ethylene (Ethrel) is more affordable than abscisic acid, we advocate using it to enhance the colour of grape berries in commercial viticulture. To prepare a spray solution of ethylene (400 ppm), 1 ml of Ethrel is dissolved in 1 litre of water by mixing it uniformly; thus, the prepared solution must be sprayed immediately. Moreover, the ethylene application also enhanced the berry quality characteristics such as total soluble solids (TSS), berry phenolics and flavonoids, ascorbic acid content, and antioxidant activity in both Flame Seedless as well as Beauty Seedless varieties. However, a slight reduction in berry firmness may be observed after the treatment with ethylene since ethylene is a stress hormone. On the other hand, a better compromise between berry colour and firmness can be achieved by using an optimized dose of ethylene. Other reports are also available on the successful use of abscisic acid and ethylene to improve coloured grape cultivars, such as Crimson Seedless, Rubi, Flame Seedless, etc., under the semi-arid subtropical regimes.