 Developing competency and management of socio- emotional problems of rural youth Projects–Developing competency of rural youth in agriculture through vocational intervention, and Sensitizing rural families for management of socio- emotional problems of youth— were initiated in Human Development and Family Studies component. Out of 1,167 academically backward children from 10 centres, students from Jorhat, Hisar, Palampur, Pantnagar, Udaipur and Ludhiana showed high external resilience in case of school, home, community and peer assets. Socio-economic and socio-emotional status of 349 school dropout youth was assessed and found that children of two centres suffer from severe emotional problems and 5 centres have mild problems.A Counseling centre was established at Hatichungi Komar Gaon, AAU, Joraht. Knowledge management system for agriculture extension services in Indian NARES Estimation of area and production of horticultural crops: This alternative methodology for “Estimation of area and production of horticultural crops” was developed, tested and validated in five states, namely, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Himachal Pradesh and Karnataka. It may be implemented at national level from 2017-2018. Mobile Assisted Personal Interview (MAPI): The software was developed to collect the data on crop area, yield, production and other demographic and social parameters. It is available online at http:// sample.iasri.res.in/ssrs/android.html, free of cost. The online data analysis software will help the user to SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 119 draw simple statistical conclusions from the data within the device just after completion of the survey. Estimation of seed, feed and wastage ratios for major food grains: The estimates of seed, feed and wastage ratios of major food grains were obtained through a survey organized in Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and Odisha. It indicated that overall ratios had gone down by 4.5% approximately as compared to the factor ratios (12.5%) used since long for estimating the total availability of food grains for human consumption in the country. The results indicated that these estimates were within a reasonable degree of precision. These seed, feed and wastage ratios to the production of major food grain crops are of immense use for planning and formulation of future policies by the Government and policy makers for the economic development of the country. KRISHI: ICAR Research Data Repository for Knowledge Management in Agriculture called KRISHI (Knowledge based Resources Information Systems Hub for Innovations) portal (http://www.krishi.icar.gov.in) was launched as a centralized data repository system of ICAR consisting of Technology and Data. This portal consists of repositories for (i) Technology, (ii) Publication, (iii) Experimental data, (iv) Observational Data, (v) Survey Data, and (vi) Geo-portal.