0 + Diclofenac I/M sodium 15 ml clinical trial to treat foot lesion in FMD. The cure rate with ITK was better than with costly allopathic treatment including antibiotic and analgesic. The material used in ITK is readily available almost at no cost. The shelf life of the decoction is also quite satisfactory. REFERENCES Mandal, A. K. and Chauhan, J. P. S. 2000. A survey on ethno-veterinary medicine practices in West Bengal. Indian Journal of Veterinary Medicine 20: 90–91.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND NAIMAL HUSBANDRY Code :1589 Title of the ITK :Treatment of diarrhoea in animals (goat and sheep) Description of the ITK :Goat and sheep which are suffering from diarrhoea are treated by pojo plant. Paste is prepared by crushing the pojo plant. It is and fed to animal @ ½ cup of pojo paste daily for 3 days. Villagers believe that pojo plant has medicinal value, controls diarrhoea and prevents dehydration. This wisdom is being used for the ancient times without modification. About 40% goats suffer from diarrhoea in the village from where the ITK is reported. Out of these, 30% cases of diarrhoea are treated by the method of ITK, and 5% remains untreated and equally are treated by some other medicines. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Veeresh Kumar, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. Location of use of the ITK :Sose, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Experimenters :Dr B. K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Ranchi Veterinary College, and Shri S. K. Sawaiyan, SRF (ITK-NATP), Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Table 1. Performance of pojo bark paste in control of diarrhoea in goats and sheep Criterion Paste of Allopathic pojo bark medicine Extent of cure 8 8 Duration of treatment (days)3 5 Cost effectiveness 10 4 Safety 10 4 Regaining in milk yield 4 2 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Sose, block Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study A field study was carried out using PRA tools with a total number of 20 respondents. The parameters or factors studied included the extent of cure, duration of treatment, cost effectiveness, safety and regaining milk yield. Experiment Twenty goats, suffering from diarrhoea were made into two groups, 10 in each group. Group 1 received treatments following ITK method, i.e. half cup of pojo bark paste was fed orally twice daily for 3 days. The other 10 animals in Group 2 received anti-diarrhoeal drug (Svifta) orally twice daily for 3 days. Faecal examination was done for examining the presence of helminths. The goats found positive with worms were given ½ bolus of panacur under allopathic treatment. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The results obtained from field study are given  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 2.