 Three types of conveyors are used for conveying value added products, viz. belt conveyor, screw conveyor and pneumatic conveyor. Flour pulverizing machine consisting of two stone rollers as grinding mechanism where the gap between the two rollers can be adjusted and fine atta can be achieved through the designed outlet chute fitted with sieve mesh of specified size depending upon the requirement. Baking of biscuits of different shapes can be done in a baking oven. The time taken to bake the biscuits in a closed tunnel varies from 5–6 min. The biscuits are cut in the shape of the fixed die which slowly moves through the mesh on baking zone and gets collected through the outlet as baked biscuits. Then the biscuits are tested for their taste, flavour, texture, hardness, chewiness, gumminess, breaking ability using a texture analyzer Ready to eat snack extruded food Different flaked millets Puffed and flaked millet value added products are prepared by roasting the grain in the roaster at a higher temperature for less time which are then puffed in a puff gun machine at a higher pressure. For flaking of millet grains, first the grains are soaked and then roasted in a roaster at a higher temperature for less time. The roasted grains are then pressed in an edge runner for getting thick flakes of millets. The gap between the rollers and the periphery is adjusted in such a way that the thickness of the flaked rice can be adjusted. Thin flakes are obtained by pressing the roasted grain in the roller flaker mill. Both circular roasters and conical roasters are used for roasting the grain for making semolina. Specific gravity separators are used in millet processing for separating the grain according to the differences in specific gravity. Rotary ovens are used for baking muffins and biscuits at a higher temperature. Paddler type wet cleaners are used for cleaning the millets before subjecting to processing. Dry cleaning is done using cleaner cum grader cum aspirator. Destoning is done by difference in density of the grains and the stones. Dehulling in millets is mainly done to remove the outer seed coat called testa. This testa hinders the edible nature of the food, as it is cooked and causes indigestion Indian Farming 109 January 2023 and then calorific value is determined using a bomb calorimeter. Sensory analysis is done for acceptance among consumers by trained panel of 9 members with a score card prepared using hedonic scale with parameters of body and smooth texture, flavour and acceptability as standard procedure for any value added product. Packaging of millet based products: Packaging is done of three types which includes nitrogen flushing packaging, vacuum packaging and ordinary form fill, and seal packaging for all the value added products developed using both major and minor millets. Hand sealing machines are used for sealing various value added products. Ziplock covers are used for storing the samples for analysis in refrigerated conditions.