 Cuddalore, Dindigul, Erode, Karur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Pudukottai, Ramanathapuram, Sivagangai, Thanjavur, Thiruvannamalai, Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Trichy, Villupuram and Virudhunagar. However, in remaining 13 districts, this trend was negative. Similarly, the growth rate of production was found to be positive in 21 districts and negative in other 10 districts viz., Coimbatore, Cuddalore, Dharmapuri, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Namakkal, Perambalur, The Nilgiris, Tiruppur and Vellore. Consequently, the productivity trend was positive in 27 districts of Ariyalur, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Dindigul, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Karur, Krishnagiri, Madurai, Nagapattinam, Namakkal, Perambalur, Ramanathapuram, Salem, Sivagangai, Thanjavur, The Nilgiris, Theni, Thiruvannamalai, Thiruvarur, Thoothukudi, Tirunelveli, Tiruppur, Tiruvallur, Trichy, Villupuram and Virudhunagar, while it was negative 501 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 in the remaining four districts. This implied that the downward trend in growth rates in productivity needs special attention. Moreover, in Tamil Nadu, rice cultivation is taken up in three seasons namely kar/kuruvai/ sornavari, samba/pishanam and navarai/kodai. Among these three seasons, controlled irrigation is possible, predominantly only in kar/kuruvai/sornavari. The samba season is totally depended on the supply of water through canal/tank irrigation and SRI technology practices can be adopted in these regions. Heavy tillers, healthy root development, vigorous crop growth and non-lodging nature ultimately resulting in high yield are the main features of this technology. Therefore, the overall strategy must be to increase production through productivity increase in all the districts of Tamil Nadu by adopting modern technologies like System of Rice Intensification (SRI) and also by the distribution of quality seeds, farm machineries and other management practices. Besides, efforts need to be taken to supply critical inputs like bio-fertilizers, zinc sulphate, micro nutrients, bio-pesticides etc. Resorting to community nursery in rice growing areas, promotion of laser leveler and demonstration would increase the yield of crops. It is proposed to cover additionally 3.55 lakh ha. under SRI in the next five years. Supply of 80,000 MT quality seeds, issuance of 17 lakh soil health cards and provision of incentives for practicing machine sowing and harvesting would lead to increase in production. Millets Millets form an important component of nutritional and livelihood security of resource poor farmers. These crops exhibit wide adaptation in marginal and currently occupy niche areas and provide farmers with opportunity for assured harvest, staple food, required nutrition and sufficient fodder in an environment characterized by scanty rainfall.