 After independence, a need was felt for a scientific and pragmatic policy to reconstruct higher education including agricultural practices. This became imminent with the appointment of University Education Commission in 1948 by Government of India. The commission gave the concept of rural universities, thereby opening the way for setting a new pattern for initiating agricultural education. However, the setting up of SAUs became a reality only after the recommendations of the first Indo-American Team in 1955. Relationship of Indian Agricultural Universities with the U. S. Land Grant Universities, started with the USAID program, that started in India in 1955, was on a regional basis for agricultural education. The trend one Agricultural University for each state took shape in 1960 and all AID support was on a state basis. By the year 1968, there were eight agricul- tural universities being assisted by the agency for International Development through 6 US Land Grant Institutions. This university-to-university relationship became the bridge to scientific and cultural understanding between two great democracies. These relationships Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 315 Box 1: Report of first Indo-American Team- Set up Universities on the Land Grant pattern Education Commission of India (1948) headed by S. Radhakrishnan had recommended setting up rural universities in India on American land-grant pattern as a solution to solve the problem of lack of university education in rural India. The Government of India, in view of growing food shortages however, approached United States Technical Cooperation Mission for solution. Consequently, a Joint Indo American Team was constituted in 1954 (Tamboli and Nene 2013). The Team in its report submitted to the Government in 1955 grant pattern as a solution to solve the problem of agricultural education. The team recommended strengthening of post graduate teaching and research in agricultural subjects as well as effective coordination of agricultural education, research and extension. These recommendations laid the foundation for the creation of agricultural universities and research in agricultural sciences. The contracts were signed with the 5 US land grant universities. According to contracts, each contracting US university had to work with agricultural colleges and research station in India for some definite period. The task of mentoring the proposed university in UP was assigned to the University of Illinois. The University was dedicated to the Nation on 17 November 1960. Illinois faculty served the university in designing its education system and putting in place an effective research and extension system for a period of 12 years (Singh 1999). In 1958, the second joint Indo American Team on Agricultural Education Research and Extension was appointed to frame proposals for third Five Year Plan.