 With its insights, farmers can make much better decisions to manage their crops for maximum yield and quality. Digital farming and Agri-insurance Cloud-based Agri-tech SaaS solutions find a breakthrough application in agri-lending and agri- UAV and AI initiatives for pest and disease surveillance November–December 2024 9 insurance by providing actionable insights on the associated risk of the farm plot. MIS keeps cloud storage for the storage of history that is available about the farms. Suppose a farmer comes in and asks for a loan, the bank can use agritech SaaS to look into the farmer’s records related to the yield and profits in the last ten years. Assessment of the crop acreage The assessment of crop area is important for agricultural management and monitoring. It helps in identifying seasonal crops, tracking crop growth, and providing information for agricultural planners and cultivators. The accuracy of crop production estimates depends on the accuracy of crop area estimates. Challenges of digital farming Challenges include the high cost of equipment, implementation, as well as management of digital farming technologies; limited access to data and connectivity in rural areas; and potential data privacy and security issues. Additionally, there is a learning curve involved in implementing new technologies, as it may take time for farmers to adopt digital farming solutions. High cost of adoption Many digital farming technologies can be expensive, which may be a barrier. The cost of in-house development is almost 10 times or more than the cost of implementation of a SaaS Product. Further, additional software infrastructure in terms of Servers, Maintenance, and Software Licenses (Microsoft, SQL, Google License, etc.) is a huge cost that the organization has to bear independently. Limited access to technology In some cases, access to digital farming technologies may be limited, particularly in developing countries or rural areas with limited infrastructure. Training and knowledge There may also be a learning curve associated with using digital farming technologies, and farmers may need to be trained in order to use them effectively. Data security and warehousing Organizations would require to have teams as well as products for data security and warehousing so that the information can be effectively used across the years for analysis and decision-making. Many organizations having their inhouse product have missed this part, thus data utilization has become a big challenge. Changing industry and Business needs The industry is dynamic and the need for products, reports, and ways of farmer engagement is changing very fast. By the time one product is developed, the needs may change. Management companies take into consideration all such changing environments and provide the best solution suitable for that time. For example, Cropin was just mobile-based in an earlier version, now it is an intelligent agriculture cloud-based solution.