, and the results indicated that the likelihood of children being malnourished reduced with an increase in mother’s age, her educational status and household’s monthly expenses. Mapping livelihood assets of fishers of Ganga river basin For mapping livelihood assets of fishers of Ganga basin, survey was conducted in Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The preliminary analysis revealed that the livelihood issues and assets of fishers of Ganga basin in these states are distinctive. Jharkhand: In district Pakur, 91% of the sampled population belonged to fishermen caste (SC) with poor literacy rate. The main source of income was fishing and annual income was about ` 47,390. In addition they worked as labourers in stone chip mines, etc. which contributed about 44% to the total family income. Around 40% of the fishermen community members were indebted due to social obligations like daughter’s marriage, etc. and their average indebtedness was about ` 11,000. Uttar Pradesh: In district Varanasi the average annual income of fishers was about ` 42,000 and the average family size was seven. Almost all the fishermen were illiterate and due to financial constraint they were unable to send their children to schools. In district Allahabad, the average annual income from fishery was about ` 46,000. Only 17% fishermen had membership in fishery co-operatives society. Though fish marketing system is organized, but fish markets are not specified in Allahabad city area, this also causes lower income to fishermen. Bihar: In district Siwan average annual income of fishers household from fisheries activities was about ` 60,000. Around 50% of the fishers’ household have Kisan credit card. Many aquaculture farms have come up in last 3-4 years in this district. In district Saran average annual income of fishers from fisheries activities was about ` 48,000. Riverine fishers of Pahlejaghat do fishing in Ganga for only four months and migrate to Rihand reservoir in district Sonbhadra, Uttar Pradesh to work on wage basis. In Gopalganj average annual household income from fisheries was ` 53,000. Fishers involved in aquaculture generate higher income compared to riverine fishers. Socio-economic evaluation of fishers of Torsa river: Among the important rivers of sub-Himalayan Terai region of West Bengal, Torsa is one of the major rivers and lifeline for a large number of native populations. Survey conducted by ICAR-CIFRI revealed that the fisher folk of Torsa river area have annual average family income of ` 46,574 and average land holdings 1.25 katha. Most of them have kachha houses. In upper stretch from Totopara to Jaldapara, involvement of women in fishing activities is greater than men, 52% women were involved in fishing and 48% were involved in fish marketing. Fishing contributed 62% to average family income followed by livestock rearing (17%), agricultural labourer (9%), tea garden/ forest labourer (7%) and farming (5%).