 One of the important step in the direction is establishment of Business Incubation Centers for nurturing the budding entrepreneurs. Government has recently launched Dairy Processing and Infrastructure Development Fund (DIDF) with a total outlay of ` 10,881 crore, where cooperatives will be provided loans at 6.5% annual interest to be repaid within a period of 10 years. The centre will provide the interest subsidy. This scheme targets to benefit 95 lakh milk producers through coverage of 50,000 villages. Many skilled, semi-skilled and unskilled workers would get direct or indirect employment opportunity. Under this scheme, additional milk processing capacity of 126 lakh litres per day with milk drying capacity 210 tonnes/day and 140 lakh litres of milk chilling capacity per day will be created. The programme has also provision for Rapid milk testing machines and promotion of value added dairy products. Some of the major initiatives are discussed hereunder: • Dairy Entrepre- neurship Development Scheme (DEDS): Department of Animal Husbandry, Dairying and Fisheries, under the Ministry of Animal Husbandry and Farmers has launched the scheme under 12th plan, which continued in current financial years. The National Bank for Agriculture and Rural Development (NABARD) is appointed as nodal agency or the implementation of DEDS scheme. There is budget provision of ` 144 Crore with ` 110 Crore for General Component, ` 17 Crore for SC component and ` 13 crore for North-eastern. The scheme is for promotion of dairy sector including animal and milk processing. • Startup India: Recent initiative of central government with the aim of fostering entrepreneurship and promoting innovation by creating an ecosystem that is conducive for the growth of start-ups. The scheme could be game changer for entrepreneurs and hopefully proves to be a milestone. (www.startupindia.gov.in) • Stand-up India: Stand-up India scheme provide bank loans between ` 10 lakh to ` 1 crore mainly for socially deprived and women entrepreneurs. The enterprise may be in manufacturing, services or the trading sector. (www.standupmitra.in). Success Stories in Dairy Sector Olitia Foods Pvt. Ltd., Jaipur The sectors of operations are indigenous breed based dairy farming, value added dairy products, olive tea, traditional beverages and primary processed products. It is a complete “Make in India” venture. The milk from indigenous cows is processed and packed in biodegradable cartons and marketed. Company is located in Jaipur and has units in various districts of Rajasthan and having an annual turnover of ` 25 crore. The company provides employment to around 150 persons. Agribusiness Incubation (ABI) of ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal has guided and mentored them in establishing state- of-art dairy farm, milk processing unit and also in formulation of new products. Aadvik Foods & Products Pvt.