 Land preparation Laser guided land leveller: Land levelling is important for soil and crop management practices. Laser guided land leveller has become popular for precise and Indian Farming 75 (01): 64-67; January 2025 Indian Farming 65 January 2025 efficient levelling which helps improve water-use efficiency. It is also noted that it is more compatible with the lands where slope is somewhat less and soils very deep. However, consolidation of holdings in small groups will allow the laser leveller to be used more effectively, thereby increasing water holding capacity at on-farm level. It will be suitable for rainfed agriculture wherever favourable topography exists. It is normally used to achieve fine levelling with desired grade on the field. This levelling technique will be helpful for proper drainage during heavy rainfall and ensure uniform water-use efficiency during dry spells. Laser guided land leveller comprises of laser transmitter, and receiver fitted on a mast. The transmitting unit emits an infrared beam of light that can travel up to 700 to 1000 m in a straight line. Receiver at the other end senses the infrared beam of light and converts it to an electrical signal. These electrical signals are used to activate hydraulic valve which raises and lowers the blade of a grader as per the set level grade. This enables to level the field within certain degree of desired slope using a guided laser beam to entire field. The use of a laser-guided leveller with automatic cutting and filling operations is an advanced technology for levelling the field. However, laser guided land leveller is not recommended to the lands with two way undulated topography. Laser guided land leveller Sowing operation Sowing operation is most crucial operation in rainfed agriculture. It mostly depends on moisture availability in the soil at the time of sowing. The rainfall in dryland areas is very erratic with frequent dry spells during crop growing season. Proper soil moisture is required for seed germination and crop establishment. So, timeliness is very important in sowing of rainfed crops. Various farm machineries are developed to get assured moisture during the growing period of crops, like raised bed planters, zero till drills and broad bed furrow planters. CRIDA zero-till drill cum herbicide applicator: CRIDA developed zero-till drill cum herbicide applicator to solve the sowing problems in conservation agriculture based rainfed cropping systems where the standing residues are involved in addition to the no- till condition. This machine accomplishes four task-such as sowing, fertilizer application, seed covering and pre- germination herbicide application. It mainly consists of 6 row seed and fertilizer boxes in which the inclined metering plates are used to drop the seed and the cell type metering plates which are customized to deliver the variable fertilizer are used.