 Pearl millet: A preferred crop in salinity affected arid tracts Soil salinity is a fast-emerging threat to crop production and salination of farmland is increasing due to several factors that are natural as well as anthropogenic. Salinity is more evident in semi-arid and arid regions where precipitation is less and evapotranspiration is more. Pearl millet is known to withstand salinity stress effectively and genes from pearl millet have been used to generate salinity tolerant rice and ground nut plants. It is even suggested as an alternate crop for salinity affected areas. Since, the crop is mostly free from major pests and diseases, use of pesticides and fungicides is also less, making it a sustainable crop with minimum impact on the environment. SUMMARY Pearl millet is among the hardiest of all crops and a great promise in climate resilient agriculture. The crop displays great potential in imparting food and nutritional security among the marginal farming communities and livestock of arid and semi-arid regions. As the crop is resilient to heat, drought, salinity and various abiotic stress factors, it’s a promising alternative for the major cereal crops which might fail in the changing climatic conditions. Realizing the importance of this crop, efforts are underway for developing high yielding varieties and hybrids to suit farmers’ fields in different zones of pearl millet cultivation. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: jinu@millets.res.in Indian Farming 35 January 2023 Commercialization of pearl millet: Seed production and value addition Jinu Jacob* and P Sanjana Reddy ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum), is the sixth most important global cereal and the millet occupying largest area in India. As a versatile crop that provides food, feed and fodder, and survives in the arid and semi-arid tropics with minimum inputs, pearl millet is regarded as a promise for future farming. Good quality seed is a vital input for exploiting complete potential of crop production. This article elaborately describes the seed production programmes in pearl millet. The significance of value addition in the crop for food and other uses is also described. Keywords: Malting, Pearl millet, Shelf-life, Seed production, Value addition P EARL millet is a hardy crop, can be grown in areas which are very hot and dry, and on soils too poor for crops like maize and sorghum. The major pearl millet growing states in India are Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana, which together account for more than 90% of pearl millet acreage in the country. Most of pearl millet in India is grown in rainy (kharif) season (June–September). It is also being increasingly cultivated during the summer season (February–May) in parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh; and during the post-rainy (rabi) season (November–February) at a small scale in Maharashtra and Gujarat.