 Keywords: molya mehandi, stem, mustard oil, wound and cuts In this practice about 50 g roots and leaves of Canscarca andrographioides (Garo name, sak-sre) is ground to make a paste. It is applied externally on the affected body parts of the animal, twice daily, till recovery. Keywords: sak-sre The wounded place is washed with the alum water, 20 g green leaves of devil tree (Calotropes gigantea) are crushed and extract is taken out. This extract is applied on the wound to give immediate cure. This practice is very effective and 80-90% of cattle owners are Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, village Borgaon. dist. Kamrup (Assam) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Lalmuanzuala Chinzah, GIAN-NE, IIT, G-North Guwahati (Assam) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Cod Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator using it. Pasighat (Arunachal Keywords: devil tree, wound Pradesh) 731 102 3164 Treatment to cure wound in The leaves of Elephantopus scaber L. Shri Moolchandra cattle by using Elephantopus are cleaned with water and crushed (Karnataka) scaber into a fine paste. The paste is Facilitator: National externally applied on the affected part Innovation Foundation, of the wounded animal. The paste Ahmedabad (Gujarat) should not be smeared on the wound. 380 015 It is placed in a thin cloth and tied around the wound of the animal. This is good for the navel infections too. One plant at a time is enough for curing the wound. Keywords: wound, smeared, navel infections 3165 Use of paste of butter and snails (ghongha) for healing the shoulder wound of bullocks Cattle owners of Sonapur, Sewata, Hamirpur and Kalbalhuti villages of district Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh observe that young bullocks' shoulders are wounded from juwath (yolk of plough) during training of running a plough, whereas trained bullocks are wounded while running the plough in heavy-textured soil. To cope up with this problem, cattle owners collect 1 or 2 snails from the lowland black cotton soil areas, separate the shell and crush the remaining portion with butter to make a paste. This paste is applied on the affected part of shoulders, twice a day (morning and evening). This practice is continued till complete cure. It gives 80-90% relief, and 35- 40% cattle owners are using this technology since ages. Keywords: shoulder wound, snails, butter, yolk Dr. Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.