2 Adaptive research: It is essentially research done for solving a local problem and uses research information generated by applied research to tailor appropriate technology for specific areas and defined groups of farmers. This research is primarily conducted to test the performance of the technology under farmers’ condition, which is different from the condition of the research stations. It identifies existing inputs or practices that might help to solve major problems of farmers in a defined area and therefore it is essentially a problem-solving research. 5.3 Adoption gap: It is the gap between the level of recommendation and the extent of adoption of recommendations. The gap in adoption of technology is computed in percentage by the following formula: Where, R= Total obtainable score and A = Total obtained score. 5.4 Agro-ecosystem: It refers to grouping of elements in relation to agriculture and ecology within a boundary and analysis of functional relationship of these elements to each other as an individual or as a group to assess the potential of the system as a whole. That means it is composed of the total complex of the crops/animals in an area together with overall environment and as modified by management practices. 5.5 Capacity building: Capacity building is the ability to perform appropriate tasks effectively and sustainably. UNDP (1997) defined capacity building as the ability of an individual or organization to perform functions effectively, efficiently and sustainably. 5.6 Case study: It is a detailed report of the success or failure of a project or an intervention highlighting the background, major milestones, turning points and the overall achievements. A successful or unique case can be studied over a larger population to establish the effect/spread of the technology/process implemented. Such cases can be used as study/training materials to draw lessons from the experiences. 5. Operational Terminology 73 Operational Terminology 5.7 Coordination: It is synergizing the efforts of individuals and groups for accomplishment of set objectives. For smooth running of an enterprise coordination is necessary within the organization, as well as with other/outside organizations. 5.8 Data: Data usually means raw, unevaluated facts, figures, symbols, objects, events etc. A database is a structured collection of records. A computer database relies upon software to organize the storage of data. The software models the database structure into what are known as database models. 5.9 Diagnosis: Implies studying farmers circumstances and farmers practices in order to understand the farming system and its interactions, identify the possible productivity problems, and begin to develop hypotheses on possible solutions on what?, how? and why?. 5.