 In heterogeneous ﬁrm models of trade, Melitz (2003) increased physical efﬁciency and higher quality promises to lead to increased exports. Furthermore, by increasing the proﬁts of varieties, GIs can enable entry into export mar- kets, as producers would be able to recover the ﬁxed costs of exporting. Finally, GIs may increase exports through bet- ter marketing of the product in foreign markets (Agostino & Trivieri, 2014; Raimondi, Falco, Curzi, & Olper, 2019). We combine a novel dataset on state-product-year level exports from the Directorate General of Commercial Intelli- gence and Statistics (DGCIS) with data on registered GIs for agricultural products from the GIs Registry for 20042016. India provides an ideal setting to study the effect of GIs on exports, as GIs were extensively promoted by both the Cen- tral and State governments as a regional development tool during this period. In fact, there were 123 agricultural prod- ucts registered as GIs during 20042016, with 23 states reg- istering at least 1 GI product during this period. To estimate the impact of GIs on exports, we rely on a difference-in-differences framework comparing the changes in exports for GI-registered state products (treated) with other state-product observations that do not receive GI registration (control). Moreover, to ensure that the state products in the control group are comparable to those that receive GIs, we restrict our sample to comprise product lines for which, at least one state registers a GI during our sample period. Further, to ensure that our estimates are well identi- ﬁed, we control for the state-product-speciﬁc time trends to account for any differential pre-existing linear trends in exports for both treated and control state products. Finally, our speciﬁcations also include a rich set of high-dimensional ﬁxed effects to absorb as much of the effect of time-varying unobserved shocks as possible. We include state-product, product-year, and state-year ﬁxed effects to capture time- varying shocks at different levels of aggregation. This ensures that we control for the effect of the demand and supply side time-varying unobserved factors that are corre- lated with GI registration as well as exports. Our key ﬁnding is that GIs on agricultural products do have a signiﬁcant positive effect on state-product level exports. Largely, our results suggest that the GI registration of a product increased the state-product level exports by 67.7% on average. Our results are robust to using a long-differenced speciﬁcation. A key question for policymakers is whether IPRs like GIs can promote the socio-economic development of relatively less-developed regions. Heterogeneity analysis based on the per-capita income of states reveals that states with higher per-capita income differentially increase their exports in GI products relative to low per-capita income states.