 The production cost of cattle feed coupled with erratic supply of green fodder due to frequent drought condition aggravate the situation. Hence, improving fodder production by promoting high yielding fodder varieties is needed. Besides, emphasis has to be laid on optimum utilization of wasteland to grow fodder. Providing proper infrastructure and equipment to the veterinary health care institutions is necessary for the timely diagnosis and treatment of animal diseases. Further, a strong program for the supply of sufficient veterinary vaccine is imperative. Each veterinary health care institution is to be provided with cold storage facilities to store vaccine. Sensitization of the general public and livestock farmers on various livestock diseases through information, education and communication campaign would help in education the people about animal diseases. Training on value addition of milk and milk products and capacity building of livestock farmers, besides strengthening activities of veterinary hospitals, dispensaries and clinics, would go long way in improving this sector. The details of specific action plans are discussed below Provision of Modern Veterinary Diagnostic aids to Veterinary Institutions Animal health care services and prevention of animal diseases is a priority for maintenance of a healthy livestock for optimum production. Protective and therapeutic activities of the Animal Husbandry Department are being conducted through various institutions such as Veterinary Polyclinics, Veterinary Hospitals, Veterinary Dispensaries, Mobile Veterinary Units and sub- centres. Modern diagnostic aids will enable the Veterinary Institutions function as “Referral centres” by providing them with cutting edge technologies, reduce loss of productivity due to delay in diagnosis and will significantly reduce infertility among dairy cattle and prevent loss of germplasm. Veterinary services need to be delivered following “Good Veterinary practices” and “Good Animal Husbandry Practices” for which, minimum infrastructure like proper building, necessary equipment, furniture, etc., should be available. In the absence of any of the components of this system, the GVP and GAP shall be severely compromised. The advances in the field of Veterinary profession can be disseminated more effectively in an efficient, user 514 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 friendly environment for the ultimate benefit of the farmers. Improved infrastructure facilities will provide improved veterinary services contributing to reduction in the incidences of animal diseases thereby increasing the overall productivity of animal wealth. The Rural Veterinary Dispensaries are either functioning from rented premises or in dilapidated buildings.