   HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code :370 Title of the ITK :Sprouting in yam by cowdung slurry Description of the ITK :Tuberous roots of yam (Dioscorea alota) are divided into many pieces, weighing about 150 to 200 g, dipped in freshly prepared cowdung slurry, dried in shade and kept in sand for sprouting. This results in sprouting within 5–6 days, giving 100% germination. Application of cowdung slurry prevents the entry of microorganisms, loss of moisture from the cut ends and supply the nitrogen at the during initial stages. By this practice the farmers get additional income of Rs 10,000 per acre over planting only tops of the tuber. It is being followed by almost all the yam-growing farmers in Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Orissa. Extent and coverage The greater yam (Dioscorea alata) is propagated mainly through setts. Traditionally the farmers use whole tuber or proximal setts ( with bud ) for planting in the field after sprouting. In this method the yam is cut into setts (1 sett/ corm) and kept in shade for sprouting or whole tuber is used as sett. After20–30 days the sprouted setts areplanted in the field. In this method only terminal buds sprout, for which a large number of setts as well as large quantity of seed tubers are required for large-scale cultivation. As a result , the cost of cultivation is increased due to cost involved for the seed material. Moreover it is very difficult to set laarge quantity of raw material for large- scale cultivation. Name and address of the discloser :Shri Narendra Bisoyi, C/o Binayak Bisoyi, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 Location of use of the ITK :Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam, (Orissa) 761 126 Experimenters :Dr S. K. Naskar, Principal Scientist, Shri P. Sethuraman Sivakumar, Scientist (Agril. Extension), and Dr R. C. Ray, Principal Scientist, Regional Tuber Crops Research Centre, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 761 126 METHODOLOGY Location The efficacy of cowdung slurry in inducing sprouting in yam was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal and field survey were done at village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, dist. Ganjam (Orissa)  HORTICULTURAL CROPS and the experiment was conducted at (a) Regional Centre of Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Bhubaneshwar ( Orissa ), and ( b ) village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, dist. Ganjam (Orissa). PRA and field study The method was applied to determine the efficacy of cowdung slurry in inducing sprouting in yam. It was compared with recommended practice (treating with 0.05% Bavistin and ash/ cowdung slurry) with a control treatment. The study was done on 10 farmers of village Benakunda in terms of quick sprouting, good field establishment, less disease incidence, number of planting material required ease for of operation, low cost, high yield and good taste.