 HORTICULTURE Collection of new germplasm A total of 1,053 germplasm of different horticultural crops including fruit crops (248), flowers and other ornamental plants (271), vegetables (525) and medicinal and aromatic plants (38) were collected. The crops-wise number of collections are presented as below. In addition to above, a total of 90 accessions of vegetable germplasm (cultivated and wild relatives of Luffa sp, Abelmoschus sp, Trichosanthes sp and Cucumis spp) were collected from the Sundargarh district of Odisha in collaboration with ICAR-NBPGR RC, Cuttack. Collection of wild and uncultivated germplasm In addition to the cultivated germplasm, a total of 83 germplasm of vegetables belonging to 42 species of different crops including 30 species of wild relatives were collected. These were collected from varied agro- climatic regions such as Malia, Somakhiali, Bhachau, Bhuj, Kharoi, Mandvi, Naliya, Kothara, Narayan Sarovar, Lakhpat, Nakhat Rana, Khadir, Ratanpur, Balasar, Rapar, Santalpur, Radhanpur, Patan, Unjha, Vadgam, Danta, Dantiwada, SK Nagar, Ranitunk, Deesa, Tharad, Adesar, and Kandla areas of Banaskantha, Kutch and Patan districts of Gujarat. Herbarium specimens (20) were also deposited in National Herbarium of Cultivated Plants (NHCP), ICAR- NBPGR, New Delhi. Some of the accessions collected GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 59 tetragonolobus (2), Abelmoschus tetraphyllus) (1), Abelmoschus tuberculatus (3), Abelmoschus ficulneus (1), Amaranthus spinosus (1), Citrullus colocynthis (1), Cucumis melo var. agrestis (2), Cucumis melo var. callosus (1), Cucumis prophetarum (3), Luffa actangula var. amara (7), Momordica balsamina (2), Momordia charantia var. muricata (2), Solanum coagulans (3), Solanum incanum (6), Solanum virginianum (4) and Trichosanthes cucumeria var. cucumerina (2). Germplasm from exotic sources A total of 57 germplasm accessions comprising 17 improved lines of tomato from AVRDC, World Vegetable Centre (WVC), Taiwan, and WVC, Hyderabad center besides 40 advance lines from Tomato Genetics Resource Centre (TGRC), University of California, Davis, USA were received. Mushroom strains collected A total of 232 new wild edible mushroom accessions were collected from forest areas of different parts of Himachal Pradesh by the ICAR-Directorate of Mushroom Research, Solan. Out of these, 200 were identified up to genus level and 100 specimens up to species level. Among these collections, some of the interesting specimens were Bovista colorata, Coprinellus micaceus, Cruentomycena viscidocruenta, Dacymyces lacrymalis, Dacryopinax spathularia, Hygrophorus eburneus, Laccaria amythstina, Laccaria laccata, Laccaria torsilis, Scleroderma citrinum, Singerocybe humilis etc. Culturing of 11 specimens namely Agrocybe agereta, Beauveria sp., Inocybe, Strobilomyces strobilaceus, Ganoderma lucidum, Scleroderma sp., Pisolithus tinctorius, Bovista colorata, Macrocybe gigantia, Xylaria curta etc. was done.