 He asserted that the only way of bringing the progress and prosperity to India is development of rural economy, industry and skills. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with sound scientific and spiritual values. Gandhian vision of rural development is based on Antyodaya i.e., ‘the upliftment of the last man in the row’. In principle, he wanted to reconstruct a ‘harmonious, poverty-free, non-violent and self-reliant society’ on the basis of ethical principles marked by Hind Swaraj. Gandhiji insisted on the social workers to render effective service in the village. In order to do this, they must acquire sufficient theoretical as well as practical knowledge about agriculture. Though a critic of modernity, Gandhiji was in favour of technology. He opposed the inequalities and hierarchies of power and the blind subjugation of nature to man, resulting from the estrangement of technological development from morality. He wanted a peaceful and sustainable integration of men, modernity and mother-nature. In spite of tremendous progress in last decades, several challenges are posed to Indian agriculture. It is high time that we learn lessons from the past and plan out strategies, which are relevant to our times following Gandhiji’s vision, which gives us a rare insight into the future of mankind. This publication is about the contribution of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on the upliftment of livelihood and ensuring food and nutritional security of Indian masses. Seventeen chapters of the book capture various aspects of Gandhian philosophy on sustainable agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries, rural development and agricultural education; his principles of food and nutritional security, environment, natural resource management, agro- biodiversity, ecology, organic farming and integrated farming system; his thoughts on new science and technology-led development and also ethics in agricultural science and future path of ICAR with Mahatma’s vision. The success stories of various ICAR institutes in improving productivity and profitability of crop, horticulture, livestock, poultry, fisheries and other commodities; managing natural resources in a sustainable manner; imparting agricultural education; and taking the knowledge and technologies to the farmers using of modern technologies have been documented. The technologies developed by ICAR have contributed to increasing the income, reducing gender divide, and in empowering the villagers to lead a dignified life. The Council is committed to internalize and upkeep the Gandhian philosophies, the relevance of which are more than ever before, in all its research endeavours. xii The present publication is an outcome of a detailed exercise by more than 60 leading scientists of ICAR, from a range of disciplines engaged in research on various aspects of agriculture.