 Similar to this, drones are also being used to detect mechanical issues with canal operation and maintenance, which may result in the development of sustainable water resources. This has the potential to cover a bigger area, while cutting down on inspection time, which will aid in canal maintenance and repair. Though at this moment the use of drones for precision irrigation is very low, but there is a scope for their enhancement. For precise irrigation water management in canal commands, India can use this method. Precision irrigation using FAO CROPWAT model: A computer model called CROPWAT was created by the FAO to assist crop water and irrigation needs from climatic and crop data. It also enables the determination of the scheme’s water requirements for the entire region, as well as the formulation of irrigation schedules for various management situations. The model is based on water balance, where the soil moisture state is assessed daily using inputs for rainfall and computed evapo-transpiration. The software uses climate information, such as maximum and minimum temperatures, relative humidity, wind speed, sunlight hours and rainfall data. It calculates the evapo- transpiration rate using the Penman Monteith method. Scope for transition from nascent stage utilizing advances in information technology Although precision irrigation water management is still in its infancy in India, there is enormous potential for it to be adopted more widely over time while making full use of current developments in machine learning, digital farming solutions, etc. The automation and real-time data monitoring under the precision irrigation system will get further reinforced with the introduction of new emerging approaches in the field of information technology at both the worldwide and national levels. Benefits of precision irrigation Precision irrigation systems are designed to deliver water to specific locations on the farm in a controlled manner, which can help you optimize yields and improve profit. These systems offer many benefits to farmers, including: • Less water use: Crops are harmed by excessive water use, which is terrible for the environment. They are deprived of the nutrients, needed to grow when there is little water. According to statistics, precision irrigation can cut agricultural water use by up to 25%. • Easy installation: Easy installation of precision irrigation systems and the possibility of automated control. • Direct supply of water to plant: Direct distribution of water to the plant ensures the best possible support of plant water needs. • Increasing productivity: It has been observed that precise watering increases yield by 8%. Precision irrigation delivers water straight to the plant’s roots, whereas standard irrigation spreads it out around the plant, depriving the roots of the majority of it. Farmers can water their crops year-round in this way.