 It is used for line sowing of rainfed crops like sorghum, groundnut, pearlmillet and cotton. All farmers in this regions use this implement for sowing of rainfed crops (Adilabad, Medak, Karimnagar and Warangal, Andhra Pradesh; Raichur, Belgaum and Bijapur, Karnataka; and Kolhapur, Wardha, Nagpur, Akola, Jalgaon and Hamadnager, Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 105 Pore hal (seed drill) It is manufatured by the local artisans with hallow bamboo or sheet metal. The attachment is tied with a country plough with a rope and the seed is dropped through the pore. It covers 0.6 acre/day and weighs about 1.5 lbs for seed attachment only (Sirmur, Himachal Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 133 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 106 Natkal kurgi (seed drill) It is manufactuered by local artisans with Shisham, Babool,Sal and teak and weighs about 50-80 lbs. The beam of the implement is tied to the yoke of bullocks by means of rope. The seed rate of various crops is adjusted by the skill of the operator. It is used for line sowing of mixed crops of cereals, oilseeds and legumes. This drill is also used for sowing of cotton by blocking the middle coulter. It covers 3-5 acres per day and has the service life of 5-10 years. Almost all the farmers in this region use this drill for line sowing of mixed crops (Puna, Kolhapur and Dhulia, Maharashtra; Ahmedabad, Baroda, Gujarat). ICAR (1960) 107 Seed drill for sowing of sugarcane This implement is made up of Babool, teak, bamboo wood and mild steel bars, fabricated by local artisans. The drill is hitched to the yoke operated by two bullocks by means of ropes. A boy sitting on the seat feeds sugarcane sets through a specially prepared seed bowel. It is single row drill and sow sugarcane sets at 3 inches depth (Surat, Gujarat). ICAR (1960) 108 Two tyne drill for sowing rainfed crops It is made up of Babool/teak/bamboo and mild steel and fabricated by local artisans. The beam is tied to the yoke with the ropes and the depth of sowing can be adjusted by adjusting the hitching distance. The work rate of the implement is 2 to 4 acres/day. It can sow to a depth of 2 to 5 inches. This drill is specially used for sowing of cotton. The weight of the implement is 40 to 70 lbs. Almost all the farming community are using this implement for sowing of rainfed crops. (Dharwad, Karnataka; Ahmedabad, Est Khandesh, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) and Parbhani. Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 109 Bida (harrow- cum- weeder) for land preparation This implement is made up of Babool, salwood and mild steel, flat by the local artisans and has the weight of 45 to 50 lbs. It is used for thinning and broadcasting the seedlings of jute and paddy and covers 6 acres per day. It is fixed to the yoke by a means of beam and ropes. It is operated by a pair of bullocks and a man.