 The effective agroforestry practices include alley cropping with Leucaena and Gliricidia on slopes, contour planting with Leucaena and Eucalyptus to reduce runoff, rainfed agro-horticulture (peach and turmeric) and integrating trees like Morusalba on bunds. Alder cultivation in Nagaland has been successful in controlling erosion and maintaining soil fertility. Further, the vegetative barriers offer a cost-effective alternative to traditional soil and water conservation methods. Similarly, native grasses like citronella reduce soil erosion in Assam’s Diphu hills. Agroforestry barriers, particularly on slopes up to 4%, control runoff and soil loss while offsetting potential yield losses through increased biomass production. Over a period of three years, it was found that these barriers have significantly increased the soil depth and significantly contributing to agricultural sustainability. Sustainable soil management strategies: Sustainable soil management in the hilly NER is crucial for addressing soil erosion, nutrient depletion, and organic matter decline. Maintenance of soil fertility requires regular applications of manure and fertilizer with an adjusted pH of 5.5 to reduce the aluminium toxicity found in these areas. Practices like multiple cropping, intercropping, and integrating legumes boost productivity while preserving soil health. With 85% of the NEH region having acidic soils, application of lime and use of acid-tolerant crop varieties, along with organic amendments, can significantly improve the yields. Recycling abundant weed biomass (5-20 t/ha) and incorporating biochar into acidic soils further enhance soil quality, increases pH, improve water efficiency, and promote resilience in challenging conditions. SUMMARY System diversification offers a viable pathway to ensure sustainable livelihoods in the Eastern Himalayan region of India. By integrating a variety of crops, livestock, agroforestry practices, and non-farm activities, farmers can mitigate the risks associated with climate change, fluctuating markets, and the region’s challenging topography. Improvement in the rice and maize fallow areas by the inclusion of short duration legumes and oilseeds besides adopting regenerative techniques like vegetative barriers, integrated farming systems, organic agriculture, and water- efficient methods, farmers can enhance productivity and resilience. Agroforestry, and sustainable soil management play vital roles in improving crop yields and preserving ecological balance. More focus should be oriented towards the indigenous practices for moisture conservation along with that some smart approaches as hydrophobic mulches, no-till farming should be initiated. Empowering farmers through capacity building and market-oriented initiatives will further strengthen livelihoods and promote long-term sustainability in this vulnerable region. *Corresponding author email: subhiari@gmail.com Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment.