5 and average conception rate was 42.7%. Development of early pregnancy diagnostic assay through discovery of biomarkers in cattle and buffalo: An ELISA was developed for detection of PR-2 protein in the test sample using MAP-1738 as capture and HRP linked MAP-1739 as detector antibodies. The sensitivity and specificity achieved Development of PAG based proof of concept for early detection of bovine pregnancy LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 78 on gestation days 17–20 and 30 of cattle were 61.54, 92.39 and 72.22, 92.39%, respectively. Climate resilience of native Indian cattle: Study under controlled thermal stress conditions in psychrometric chambers and in different seasons (under different THI) revealed that crossbred cattle are under more immune stress than indigenous cattle. Semi-intensive mithun rearing units: The Institute developed an alternative package of practices of mithun rearing under a semi-intensive rearing system. Under this system, the mithun can be monitored by the owner regularly for growth, reproduction, health care, and breeding. Phytogenics: Phytogenics reported to improve health and growth of poultry, are considered as safe and residue free. A novel phytogenic blend was developed to replace antibiotic growth promoters (AGP) in broiler production. Dietary supplementation of the blend (@ 1% level) significantly improved body weight gain and feed conversion ratio and reduced the Salmonella and coliform counts in the caecum. Livestock protection Disease informatics: The National Animal Disease Referral Expert System v2 (NADRESv2) developed and maintained by ICAR-NIVEDI was updated with 4,986 district wise livestock disease outbreaks data from November 2019 to September 2020. The prediction results, risk maps, post prediction maps were disseminated through forecasting bulletin to all the State Animal Husbandry Departments and DAHD, GoI for initiating preventive action. A bluetongue forewarning Mobile App was developed and launched to provide forewarning of bluetongue two months in advance for all Taluks of Karnataka. The mobile app can be downloaded from Google play store. The maintenance and updation of National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) with 28,756 baseline, biological, disease outbreak and hatcheries data was done. Nation-wide Sampling plan for sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring of FMD, brucellosis and PPR in India was formulated and provided to DAHD, GoI. Sero-epidemiology Sero-prevalence of economically important bacterial disease: The burden of economically important diseases or diseases of public health importance was estimated by sero-survey. The seroprevalence of porcine brucellosis at national level was estimated to be 4.4% (n-5431). The disease burden in bovine population from Chhattisgarh (159 blocks in 22 districts) showed 4.64% seropositivity (n-3144).