 Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 42 November 2024 Nutrigardens for increased farmer income and food security in Kiphire, Nagaland L. J. Bordoloi, Sunil Kumar* and C. S. Karibasappa ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Nagaland Centre, Longtroktrok, Kiphire, Nagaland 798 611 In Kiphire district, a remarkable transformation has taken place through the adoption of nutrigarden practices, a chemical-free approach to farming. Over 500 farmers have established nutrigardens, covering 200 ha, and noticed a 30% increase in crop yields and 25% rise in income. This initiative has not only improved soil health and biodiversity but also empowered farmers, especially women, with knowledge and skills to manage their own food systems. The success of Nutrigarden in Kiphire serves as a model for sustainable agriculture, demonstrating its potential to transform lives, environments, and communities. This initiative has also led to the formation of farmers' groups, facilitating knowledge sharing, resource exchange, and collective marketing efforts. As a result, Kiphire has become a beacon of sustainable agriculture, showcasing the power of community empowerment and dedicated support in transforming farming practices and improving livelihoods. Keywords: Income, Kiphire, Millet, Nutrigarden, Sustainable agriculture K IPHIRE, a picturesque district in Nagaland, India, is renowned for its breathtaking natural beauty, rich cultural legacy, and diverse flora and fauna. Situated between 25.9°N - 26.7°N latitude and 94.5°E - 95.3°E longitude, Kiphire boasts a unique geography. The district’s subtropical climate is characterized by hot and humid summers, with temperatures ranging from 25°C-35°C, followed by heavy monsoon rainfall and mild winters with temperatures between 10°C-20°C. Kiphire’s terrain is marked by steep hills, narrow valleys, and elevations spanning 800 to 2,500 meters above sea level. The region is home to dense tropical evergreen and subtropical forests, supporting a wide range of biodiversity. With a population of approximately 74,000 (2011 census) Kiphire is predominantly inhabited by the Sangtam and Yimchunger tribes. Despite its remote location and limited connectivity, Kiphire’s natural resources, cultural heritage, and resilient communities make it a fascinating and distinctive region. Kiphire district has been blessed with various agro- climatic conditions suited for the production of a variety of crops. Kiphire enjoys south-east monsoon with average rainfall between 1,500 to 1,800 mm occurring over 6 months from May to October. The Kiphire district stands out as a beacon of sustainable agriculture, where farmers have collectively embraced a chemical-free approach to farming.