 About three-fourths of the population in rural India depends on agriculture. India is a major player in agriculture worldwide. There is around 195 million ha under cultivation in the country, of which approximately 63 per cent (or 125 million ha) are rainfed and 37 per cent are irrigated (70m ha). Additionally, 65 million hectares of India’s territory are covered in forests. According to the ICAR, India is blessed with vast tracts of arable land divided into 15 agro-climatic zones that have a diversity of soil types, weather patterns, and crop-growing potential. India is the world’s top producer of a variety of fresh fruits and vegetables, including bananas, mangoes, guavas, papayas, and lemons, as well as important spices like chili pepper and ginger, as well as fibre crops like jute and staples like millets and castor oil seed. India is the second largest producer of two main food staples in the world, rice, and wheat. Several dry fruits, agriculturally based textile raw materials, roots and Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 2 | tuber crops, pulses, farmed fish, eggs, coconut, sugarcane, and a variety of vegetables are among the items India produces that are currently in second place on the global scale. In 2010, India was one of the top five producers in the world of more than 80 per cent of agricultural products, including many cash crops like cotton and coffee. With one of the quickest growth rates, India is among the top five producers of meat from livestock and poultry worldwide. For all- encompassing rural development, sustainable agriculture is crucial in terms of food security, rural employment, and environmentally friendly methods like soil conservation, sustainable natural resource management, and biodiversity protection. India has experienced a green revolution, a white revolution, a yellow revolution, and a blue revolution in agriculture and related fields. The Economic Survey 2021–22 found that the Covid–19 shock was most easily absorbed by the agriculture and related sector, which grew by 3.6 per cent in 2020–21 and then by 3.9 per cent in 2021–22, contributing to the overall Indian economy’s real GDP growth of 9.2 per cent in that year. Figure 1.1. Women Collecting Firewood. History of Indian Agriculture In northwest India, early plant cultivation and the domestication of crops and animals marked the beginning of Indian agriculture in 9000 BCE. Wheat and grain production on the Indian subcontinent was at its peak. After they established, agriculture-related tools and methods were quickly developed. Due to two monsoons, two harvests were obtained in one year. Foreign crops were India and Agriculture | 3 brought to India, and Indian goods quickly spread around the world thanks to established trading networks. The Indians began to worship and revere plants and animals since they were seen as vital to their survival.