 The discussions held with the stakeholders such as senior officials of the Departments of Agriculture and Extension, with the private sector and a representative group of farmers will form part of the process. C Main body of the report i. Brief history: A page about past history of the institute/unit and outstanding achievements. ii. Mandate of the Institute: India's agricultural research, education and development system continues to evolve rapidly. In this changing policy environment, the Institute may be called upon to work with a revised mandate. If the Panel feels that the mandate of the institute should be Changed, it should provide its suggestions in this regard. A draft of the revised mandate may be suggested. iii. Priorities, programmes and projects: A comprehensive review of these will constitute the main body of the Report. The procedure as indicated in the three-part process-the present position, in-depth analysis and recommendations may be followed. The analysis part should 4 offer an opportunity to draw attention to the significant achievements of the institute during the past five years and to some of its failures. The achievements should be in terms of the impact of the institute's work in the form of development and dissemination of improved and new production technologies evolved by the institute, their expression on farmers' fields in the form of area covered, increased productivity and production, increase in the income of farmers, and any other socio-economic benefits. A number of methods are now available for analyzing economic impact of the technologies released to farmers and to the agri-business sector. The impact will also be seen in the form of strategic and basic researches carried out by the scientists, and the papers published in the reputed scientific journals. The papers published in the high impact journals should be highlighted. The reaction of the stakeholders may be included. The Panel may also like to comment on the balance between basic, strategic and applied researches. Research carried out by Ph.D students and Post-Doctoral Fellows, wherever applicable, may receive attention. It may take into consideration the services rendered such as training, demonstration, education, exchange of research material, etc. • Structure and organization: The mandate, the research priorities, programmes and projects of an institute would normally determine its organizational structure, which should facilitate effective and efficient conduct of research. A pre-conceived structure cannot be imposed on an institute. The Panel will offer its observations on the appropriateness of the existing organization and structure of the Institute following its analysis, and make recommendations for change, if considered necessary. • Management practices: The ICAR has laid down certain norms for allocation of funds to different projects.