 [48] Cost of skilled labour Since the availability of skilled workforce is limited, the capital involved in hiring a professional is relatively high. [48] High investment cost The capital cost involved in procuring the drones is not affordable. [38,53] Implementation Lack of Incentives The capital cost involved in procuring UAV is substantial and is a substantial investment for a farmer. There exist no government schemes that provide subsidy for the procurement of UAVs. [40] Policy and regulations Existing drone rules beside ensuring the safety and security also impediments its wide adoption due to restrictions set as a part of the guidelines. [48] Access to service centers As drone development is in a nascent stage, the connectivity to service centers for repairing and maintenance is not established in rural areas posing significant challenges of spatial accessibility. [54] H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 5 (iv) Interruption of existing work: Farmers view the transition from conventional techniques to adopting unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) as a significant hurdle in their ongoing and planned works. This perception stems from the concern regarding the time-consuming nature of adopting UAVs and its potential impact on their yield, which heavily relies on seasonal factors. (v) Trust: Agro-based drones being electronic devices equipped with numerous sensors, the reliability of UAVs is also a major concern. (vi) Logistics between site and farm: Transportation of UAVs between dwelling units and the farms is challenging as it requires dedi足 cated vehicles. The problem is more prevalent in the case of Agro- Drones. (vii) Access to power: The majority of the agricultural farms are iso足 lated geographically and lack a power supply which is a challenge to charge the drone, which would be a mandatory requirement in view of the limited flight time of the drone. 3.3. Field visits to a village To verify if the obtained responses from the experts translated the ground reality, a field visit was conducted in a nearby village, Karnal (Ref. Fig. 4), Haryana. The primary occupation in the chosen village is agricultural and it is one of the top producers of wheat. A team comprising researchers and students with preliminary training inter足 acted with the group of farmers. A few of the participants own their own farm, and a few of them are involved in farming activities. The partici足 pants of the survey comprised males and females with age between 22 and 47 years. As the first phase of interaction, an ice-breaking session (conducted in the local language) which was proven effective in making participants feel comfortable, was conducted. As an outcome, it was noted that drones are a popular term among the participants. However, they are popular for photography and videography videos, especially during marriages. After this session, they were asked about their awareness of drones in boosting yield and income levels.