 It takes the efficiency of both, standard center pivot and drip irrigation system designs and combines them, providing an excellent solution for a number of common issues seen with the center pivot system. Micro-sprinklers: Similar to drip irrigation, micro-sprinklers are made for small areas. They can be used in orchards or row crops and spray water in a circular pattern. Precision sprinkler irrigation: A machine or manually controlled tool that can be put temporarily/ permanently, travel forward or rotates, sprays water through it. Depending on their guns and nozzles, sprinklers have varying pressures and droplet sizes. This precision irrigation method is only suitable for some crops, as big drops and high pressure can damage them. Additionally, any insoluble particles that get lodged inside the system will render the device inoperable. Another problem is that the winds have a significant impact on moisture distribution. Precision surface irrigation: In accordance with the law of gravity, water distributes naturally through- out the area. It is acceptable when soil penetration is poor because it doesn’t use any cutting-edge technologies but requires a lot of water. This precision irrigation method is suitable for clay soils, but will be difficult to implement in sandy ones. The surface method is performed in the following ways: • The basin technique limits the area with bunds and floods it. • The water stays there for a long time. • This is a common method for cultivating rice and is also applicable to wheat. • The technique is used on flat terrain with optional further levelling. • The furrow technique entails digging large, water-filled ditches called furrows. • The water drains naturally through syphon tubes or gates or through furrows that are higher than the crop rows. • The border method provides water in the spaces between stretches of land. Precision irrigation techniques Precision irrigation management using EOS data analytics crop monitoring: EOSDA crop monitoring helps farmers to manage their fields by saving time, reducing costs and improving the yield’s of crops. Precision irrigation management requires reliable information about the current weather forecast, that will help to determine the need for additional soil moisture supply. It is advised to undertake accurate irrigation, that is, to watering the crops only when necessary, because doing so can save money and prevent damage from excessive moisture. Precision irrigation management using normalized difference moisture index (NDMI): NDMI is used to determine vegetation water content. It is calculated as a ratio between the near-infrared (NIR) and short- wave infrared (SWIR) in traditional fashion. It is an accurate predictor of crop water stress. NDMI can detect water stress at an early stage before the problem has gone out of hand. NDMI = (NIR – SWIR)/(NIR + SWIR).