”- Mary Kom Key takeaway Strong will and self-motivation can make anyone to achieve the desired goal. 213 Social Issues and Sports MODERN TECHNOLOGIES IN MANAGING HUMAN-WILDLIFE CONFLICT Kaushal Konwar Sarma Human-wildlife conflict (HWC) refers to the interaction between wild animals and people and the resultant negative impact on the people and their habitat. When growing human population overlaps with established wildlife territories, it creates reduction of resources of life to some people and/ or wild animals. Human-wildlife conflict is a global problem which is not restricted to particular geographical region or climatic condition. Dense human population in the close vicinity to nature reserves seems to pose the biggest challenge. Why conflict is growing? There are only small pockets of high wildlife density surrounded by high human density areas that are choking off corridors and leading to fragmentation of habitat. Human wildlife conflict (HWC) is not recent. Arthsastra-fame Kautilya documented wild elephant herds raiding crops. In 1903 alone 24, 576 people lost their lives to wild animal attacks in India— 806 were killed by tiger, 513 by leopards, 463 by wolves, 907 by other animals and 21,827 died due to snake-bites. Dr Kaushal Konwar Sarma is the Head of the Department of Surgery and Radiology in the Assam University. He is working on wildlife healthcare and management in particular and wildlife conservation in general. He is a well-known elephant expert and is lovingly called the Elephant Man of Asia. 214 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series The growing human population, defores- tation, loss of habitat and decline in their prey species are major reasons behind the Human wildlife conflict in India. Rapid urbanization and industrialisation have led to diversion of forest land to non- forest purposes. The expansion of road and rail network through forest ranges has also resulted in animals being killed or injured in accidents on roads or railway tracks. Many human settlements coming up near the peripheries of protected areas and are encroaching forest lands and are causing increased pressure on limited natural resources in the forests. Human-wildlife conflict can have detrimental and permanent impacts on the ecosystem and biodiversity. People may kill animals in self-defence, or as preventive or retaliatory killings, which can drive species involved in extinction. The most evident and direct negative impacts to people from wildlife are injuries and loss of lives and of livestock, crops and or other property. Managing Human Wildlife Conflict Modern technologies for human- wildlife management includes habitat management, restoration of corridors, physical barrier (biological mechanical and electrical), early warning using radio collaring, population management by killing or mass capture, sterilization, translocation and immunocontraception. Radio collar is a lightweight belt fixed on an elephant’s neck.