 In waterways, para grass filters were most effective and reduced outflow up to 18% with 100% grass cover. Grass-filter strips were able to reduce sediment concentration in runoff water by 5.5 times (from 3.05 to 0.55 g/litre). Peach-based agri-horticulture land-use system for degraded Shivaliks:Peach (Prunus persica) cultivation in degraded lands along with most compatible intercrop (fodder crop) and moisture- conservation practice can be implemented in Shivaliks of Jammu, Punjab, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Chandigarh (UT) and Uttarakhand, which experience sub-tropical climate with low-chilling hours during winter. There is also a good scope for shade-loving crops — turmeric, colocasia and ginger— after 4-5 years of plantation. Peach + circular trench + clusterbean combination was found most compatible for resource conservation resulting in minimum run off and soil loss, maximum fruit yield per plant, maximum B:C ratio of 5.25 (gave gross revenue of ` 20.48 lakh in 7 years). Underutilized fruit species in Chambal ravines: Four underutilized fruit species — Bael (Aegle marmelos), Lasoda (Cordia myxa), Custard-apple (Annona squamosa) and Karonda (Carissa carandas)— with four interspaces managements — Clean tilled, Clean tilled with half-moon, half-moon with Cenchrus ciliaris and half-moon with Dicanthium annulatum— were planted on hump top of the ravines with recommended spacing. Over all, fruit production and maximum economic returns were obtained through bael with half- Water-hyacinth management in Moti lake at Motihari (Bihar) Moti lake of about 450 acres in Motihari (Bihar) was severely infested with water-hyacinth (more than 75% area). Infested 6 acres was identified for water-hyacinth management. Initially, spray of 2, 4-D and glyphosate was done on different patches of water-hyacinth. After about a month, when water- hyacinth dried owing to herbicide action, biomass was removed manually with JCB. Approximately 20 tonnes of vermi-compost was prepared from removed biomass. moon shaped moisture retention management technique. Integrated fish farming: Cattle-fish integration resulted in highest fish productivity of 4.50 tonnes/ha, followed by poultry-fish integration at Patna. Fish rearing with concentrate feed increased fish yield only by 760 kg/ ha as compared to productivity of cattle-fish integration. Mango: Productivity in mango (cv. Dashehari) as a function of soil management system was maximum (13.96 t/ha) due to application of NPK + Zn, Cu, Mn, B (50% soil + 50% foliar application) as compared to untreated check – basin irrigation (6.44 tonnes /ha). Improvement in yield of mango was 116.