e) Easy access to cheaper transport (+ve) Better road safety (+ve) Reduction in total tailpipe emissions (-ve) Concentrated pollution National Logistics Policy To reduce logistics costs through a technology- enabled, multi-modal transport ecosystem, and last-mile connectivity (+ve) Lower logistics cost (+ve) Improved trade competitiveness (-ve) Cost to government (+ve) Improved access to goods and services for last-mile population (+ve) Lower cost to consumers (+ve) Lower average car- bon footprint per unit shipment Vehicle scrappage policy To phase out old passenger and commercial vehicles and increase the demand for new vehicles (+ve) Increased demand for new passenger and commercial vehicles (+ve) Low-cost raw material for the steel and auto-allied industries (+ve) Better employment opportunities (+ve) Passenger safety (+ve) Tax beneﬁts for consumers (+ve) Reduction in vehicu- lar emission (+ve) Energy saving and reduction in pollution from raw materials extraction & processing Battery Waste Manage- ment Policy To promote circular econ- omy by recycling/ refur- bishment of waste batteries through EPR (+ve) Inﬂows of technology and investment in recy- cling and refurbishment industry (+ve) Reduced import dependency for raw material (+ve) New business and employment opportunity (+ve) Low groundwater contamination (+ve) Conservation of natural resources and reduced fumes emission Source: Created by authors 34 H. Saranga et al. road-pricing strategies around trade hubs. NLP’s focus on multimodal logistics must ensure maximum utilisation of rail and waterways for freight transportation. Another critical aspect that has received limited atten- tion is the rural transport system (Verma, Harsha, & Subra- manian, 2021); most policies have primarily focused on urban areas. Lack of access to safe and affordable transpor- tation hinders social and economic sustainability in many rural areas (Jain & Jehling, 2020). Future transportation pol- icies must account for social equity in their planning frame- work and emphasise improving the rural transport system. The need for behavioural interventions As the income levels rise, private cars and ﬂights will be more frequent modes of transport. Sustainable transport policies (hard interventions) must be reinforced through behavioural interventions (soft interventions) by nudging people towards sustainable technology and travel mode decisions. Over the years, people have become more health conscious, and therefore, it is easy to nudge them towards NMT, but open spaces have become hard to ﬁnd in Indian cit- ies. Improving NMT infrastructure is on the agenda under multiple policies, but faster implementation, expansion of pedestrian pathways and cycling tracks, and nudging people would be essential. Along with availability and accessibility, targeted communi- cations can encourage distinct population segments to opt for sustainable transport (Mundorf, Redding, & Paiva, 2018).