 Thangavel, S/o farming followed by the farmers under dryland Shri P. Palanichamy, conditions to make use of the available Nadupatty, field and the resources within a short Jayamangalam, span of time. Sorghum and pigeonpea Periyakulam, Theni are sown together in the field. Farmers (Tamil Nadu) 625 603 2815 Intercropping of maize with potato, chotayee, chinni and kodda 2816 Indigenous cropping system under rainfed agro- ecosystem harvest one crop after the other. Keywords: dry farming, mixed cropping, sorghum, pigeonpea Intercropping of potato, cholayee, chinni and kodda along with maize is helpful to maintain fertility of the soil and also to provide food diversification. This intercropping is practised by the farmers of hilly areas of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh since long. In this system maize is sown in June-July along with potato, cholayee, chinni and kodda as kharif crops. These crops are harvested in October-November. Keywords: intercropping, maize, potato, cholayee, chinni, kodda, soil fertility, hilly area Farmers of Kohaka, Ghanaghat and Sarhari villages of Dindori district of Madhya Pradesh follow different types of cropping systems under rainfed conditions, which are as follows: 1. Pigeonpea + rice: On black soil (kali mitti) farmers grow tall varieties of rice and on bunds sow pigeonpea. Pigeonpea can survive on the less fertile soil of bund. 2. Anta with kodo (Paspalum scrobiculatum), kutki (Gentiana kurroo) and pigeonpea: Anta is a Farmers of hilly area of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. Facilitator: Dr L R Verma, MRDA, 4 Summer Hill, Simla (HP) 171 005 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator small bushy plant belonging to citrus family (leaves are round with maroon coloured flowers), which is eaten by tribals either in green or dried form. Kodo + anta are taken under completely rainfed and undulating situations. Kodo is sown across the slope after single ploughing and afterwards anta seeds are sown (seed rate 400-500 g/acre). Anta is harvested about 15 days after harvesting kodo. In kutki + anta cropping system, the seed rate of anta is increased because the plant size of the former is smaller than that of kodo. In anta + pigeonpea cropping system the pod borer intensity is lessened in pigeonpea. This cropping system is followed in light black cotton soil, locally called sehra mitti (slopy land). Anta is sold in market as vegetable, from which sauce and ketchup are prepared. This fruit is used in many stomach disorders or ailments and is mixed with any type of food, that is compatible with tribal culture. 3.