 The incidence of red spider mite was very low in brinjal crop sprayed with hexythiazox + propargite as hexythiazox has ovicidal action and propargite has adulticidal action hence, combination of both the acaricides have managed the menace of red spider mite very significantly. For further interaction, please write to: Dr S S Singh (Professor), G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Matela, Almora, Uttarakhand. *Corresponding author e-mail: sssindia02@gmail.com Availability of high-yielding varieties/hybrids and increased irrigated facilities have resulted in the development of production- intensive cropping systems in several parts of India, and this has catalyzed further agronomic research based on the cropping- system approach. Many changes have also taken place in the crop-production technologies. And this necessitated the revision of the earlier publication brought out in 2002. The revised textbook is in two volumes: First is covering Foodgrains and second is on Commercial Crops. The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon. This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. Textbook of Field Crops Production – Commercial Crops For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail: bmicar@gmail.com (Volume II) TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Pages : i-xiv + 612 • Price : ` 800 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-146-8 May–June 2023 49 I NDIA is the largest producer of banana (Musa sp. Family- Musaceae) in the world (27.8%) followed by China and Philippines. According to the production, banana is the major fruit crop in India contributing 33.4% followed by mango (20.7%) and citrus (12.5%). In India, banana has a total area of 0.88 million hectare and total production is 30.81 million tonnes with a yield of 34,850 kg/ha.