 Vaccine matching exercise was carried out to evaluate antigenic relationship of field isolates with currently used vaccine strains to monitor antigenic variation, if any, occurring in the field, and to assess appropriateness of in-use vaccine strains. Selected virus isolates of all three serotypes were subjected to one- way antigenic relationship analysis (r-value) using Bovine Vaccinate Serum (BVS) against respective vaccine strains. In case of serotype O, the vaccine strain INDR2/1975 covered 88% of the field isolates. This vaccine strain is able to provide optimal antigenic coverage over the field isolates. National FMD Virus Repository was upgraded with new virus isolates. The virus repository has served the cause of the country by providing isolates for molecular epidemiological studies, evaluation of antigenic relatedness between the field and vaccine strains and Success story 3A based DIVA ELISA to detect antibodies induced by FMDV Detection of antibodies to the non-structural proteins (NSPs) of FMD virus (FMDV) is the preferred differential diagnostic method for identification of FMD- infected animals in the vaccinated population. Nevertheless, due to the observed variability in the antibody response to NSPs, the likelihood of screening or confirming the FMD infection status in animals is increased if an antibody profile to multiple NSPs is considered for diagnosis. To develop and evaluate an additional NSP-based diagnostic assay, the recombinant 3A protein of FMDV was expressed in Escherichia coli and used as an antigen for detection of FMD infection specific antibodies. At the fixed cut-off value of 45% of positivity, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of 3A indirect-ELISA (I-ELISA) were 95.7 and 96.3%, respectively. In FMD naturally infected cattle, about 85% of clinically infected and 75% of asymptomatic in-contact populations were positive at 13 months post-outbreak. The 3A I-ELISA was further evaluated with the bovine serum samples collected randomly from different parts of the country. The performance of newly developed 3A I-ELISA was compared with the extensively used in-house r3AB3 I-ELISA with findings of 93.62% overall concordance in test results. The r3A I-ELISA could be useful as a screening or confirmatory assay in the sero-surveillance of FMD in India irrespective of extensive bi-annual vaccination. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 81 selection of new candidate vaccine strains whenever required. Virus isolates (55 serotype O, 11 serotype A and 2 serotype Asia1) were added to the repository during the reported period. At present the National FMD virus Repository holds a total of 2,008 isolates (O-1308, A-319, C-15 and Asia 1-366).