 y Application of natural plant extracts such as neem oil (10 ml/L) or Bordeaux mixture (5:5:50 L, 1%) as foliar spray after winter pruning to protect the vines from natural infection by PM due to erratic or late winter rains/ cloudy weather. y One prophylactic spray of copper fungicide or copper oxychloride (COC) or Bavistin or Ridomil Gold @ 2 g/L in April, i.e. after berry set. y In case of fluctuating or cloudy weather conditions, another spray of Bordeaux mixture or COC in May as a prophylactic spray to minimise the occurrence of PM disease affecting berry quality and bunch maturity due to pre-monsoon shower. y Another spray of any of the above-mentioned fungicides is recommended after monsoon rains, i.e. after harvest so that the foliar and stem portions are maintained healthy without heavy infection. y Alternative to chemical fungicides, the sulphur tolerant strains of Trichoderma afroharzianum (NAIMCCF-01938 strain) and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (TL-171 strain) @ 0.2 g/L are recommended as spray for effective management of powdery mildew at cane maturity and flower bud differentiation phase under sub-tropical conditions. Management of PM in temperate regions This region covers Kangra, Una and Solan districts of Himachal Pradesh; Pulwama, Baramulla, Udhampur, Kathua & Kupwara districts of Jammu and Kashmir; Nainital, Dehradun, Haridwar & Udham Singh Nagar districts of Uttarakhand. For managing powdery mildew, the management strategies under sub-tropical region are suggested to be followed. The only difference is that the crop maturity is late and accordingly needs to be monitored. SUMMARY Grapevine powdery mildew is one of the most important fungal diseases in commercial viticulture worldwide. Despite the frequent application of fungicides, powdery mildew is often poorly managed primarily due to fluctuating weather conditions. Different IDM strategies/modules suggested above can be adopted by the grape growers, which would increase production and fetch higher returns due to safe production and also reduce the cost of plant protection chemicals. Eco-friendly management practices like canopy management, cultural practices, use of resistant genotypes, biocontrol agents, nutrients, plant extracts/ botanicals, contact materials, predatory mites and bioremediation can effectively be used to produce pesticide-free bunches for consumption. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sanjay K Singh, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: sanjaydr2@gmail.com Vertical expansion of nursery under protected conditions using soilless rooting medium An efficient technology for multiplication of clonal rootstock (M-9, MM-106, MM-111, P-22, B-9, M-27) of apple under greenhouse conditions was standardized.