in September–October 2023 41 Post-harvest processing in medicinal turmeric India is the major turmeric exporter and represents 80% of the global production with the net profit of 201.2 million USD during 2020. Turmeric has high potential and enormous demand at international market with the global market value of 4419 million USD in 2023. The small and marginal farmers of turmeric growers could earn more revenue by adopting a small and simple post-harvest processing technique like curing rather than simply selling the fresh turmeric rhizome in market. This will not only impact the socio-economic status of such group of farmers, but it will also make a strong bonding between the growers and the consumers or companies directly, and also eventually fasten the process to bring the product in foreign market without compromising the quality and quantity. So, curing is a very significant post-harvest step, which involves boiling of rhizomes and drying to maximize the profit to the growers. T URMERIC, popularly known as haldi in India is well-recognized for its therapeutic potential and has been traditionally used as food preservative, spices and for colouring. Turmeric, Curcuma longa belongs to Zingiberaceae family and its economic part is an underground rhizome. Besides the normally consumed yellow turmeric (Curcuma longa), white (Curcuma zedoaria) and black turmeric (Curcuma caesia) are well known for its nutritional and ethnomedicinal utility in various aspects. The pungency of white turmeric has mango like smell, very popularly acknowledged as ‘Amba Haldi’ and it has tough brown skin with orange flesh and bitter flavour. The black turmeric (Kali haldi) flesh is most notable for its colouring and concentric circles in rhizomes, appearing in shades of dark blue, light blue, cobalt blue, to blue-green. Moreover, camphor-like aroma with mildly spicy and bitter undertones pungency is released from kali haldi. The A S Thounaojam*, R I Chaudhary, K V Patel, R U Solanki and N K Chavda above mentioned two turmeric species are not commonly consumed in day-to-day cuisine spices due to their hot, sharp, sour, and earthy taste which is rather preferred for use in medicinal as well as in ornamental purpose. However, in terms of bioactive constituents, higher curcumin content is found in black turmeric, followed by yellow and white turmeric along with others chemical compounds. In white turmeric, major constituents are curzerenone (22.3%) followed by 1,8-cineole (15.9%) and germacrone (9.0%). Collectively turmeric growing farmers have wide scope in terms of supplying materials to the pharmaceutical industries for making drugs, cosmetics and process industries for powder preparation. Currently, India is a leading producer, consumer and exporter of turmeric in the world. In India, Telangana is leading state (330.26 MT) followed by Maharashtra (262.61) and Karnataka (130.97) (NHB, 2021-22). During Technology Harvesting Cultivation Indian Horticulture 42 2019-20, 1.