 End point is judged by taking a small quantity of the product and it is allowed to cool and then tested by dropping it. If the flow of the liquid is in the form of sheet, the end point reached. Jam is poured into a clean sterilized glass jar, the lid is closed, and the jam is allowed to cool. 4. Mango squash: Ingredients required are: mango juice pulp (1½ kg), sugar (1½ kg), citric acid or lemon juice (35 g), water (750 ml), potassium meta- bisulphite (1½ teaspoonful). Sugar, citric acid and water are boiled then it is cooled and filtered through muslin cloth. Mango pulp is mixed with the syrup by constant stirring. Again it is filtered through mosquito net. Potassium meta-bisulphite is added after dissolving it in a small quantity of water and it is mixed well with the prepared squash. The squash is filled in a sterilized bottle and the neck is sealed. Keywords: ripe mango, unripe mango, mango pickle, sun-drying, mango leather, juicy pulp, mango powder, sour mango pickle, sweet pickle, mango jam, mango squash 2728 Preparation of pickle in sterilized earthen pots Pickles of various food items are prepared in sterilized earthen pots in whole of the Hamirpur district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. The earthen pots are firstly sterilized with the fumes of burning chillies. It inhibits the People of Hamirpur at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal bacterial growth and moisture content from the earthen pot. All the ingredients like salt, chilli and spices are mixed with mango or citrus pieces. The lid of the pot is closed air tight so as to avoid the contamination. In this way people can store the pickle for 1- years of duration without any spoilage. Keywords: pickle, earthen pots, chilli fumes Pradesh) 171 005 2731 Preserving neem leaf product cooked with mustard slurry The tender neem leaf is plucked during March, April or May, or round the year. These leaves are cooked with mustard slurry, salt, turmeric and oil. After cooking, a dry product is prepared. This product can be kept for even a week in winter season and 2-3 days in other seasons. This practice is being used in Balasore district of Orissa since a long time. Keywords: neem leaf product, mustard slurry Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126 2737 Preserving extra fish (small one) for future use After consumption, the remained extra fish is preserved by drying on heat. After cooking, the fish treated with turmeric is put on the sim flame of chulha (not burning) on a tawa. This becomes dry. It is just turned 2- 3 times then cooled and kept in bamboo baskets with narrow mouth. This is low cost fish preservation technology and being used in Balasore district of Orissa.