 This is consistent with recent studies showing that okra and onion smallholders actively engage in contract farming (Dsouza, Mishra, and Webster, 2022; Mishra et al., 2018). Farmers of those crops received lower prices when selling output via pre-harvest contractors than when using APMC mandis as outlets. Much of the okra and onions produced in India is consumed locally, with only small amounts being exported to neighboring countries (Nepal, Bangladesh, and Pakistan). It must be noted that the simple comparisons of summary statistics can be misleading, given that many factors may influence producers’ prices. Besides the type of crop and market channels, geographic factors, distance to markets, and access to information also might affect producers’ prices. Thus, a multivariate regression framework is applied. 4. Estimation strategy Small farmers’ choice of marketing outlets is driven by the farmer’s desire to maximize profits (Frank and Glass, 1991) or, more precisely, expected utility from profits (Salvatore, 2003). To do so, the farmer decides on a specific marketing outlet by assessing the expected returns while accounting for the related variable costs, including transaction costs (Salvatore, 2003). The choice of the marketing outlet also is affected by other factors, such as farm size, educational attainment of farmers, farmer’s age, availability of transportation, and the surrounding infrastructure (Benfica, Tschirley, and Boughton, 2006; Boughton et al., 2007). In India’s case, smallholders subjectively compare market attributes, capacity, and managerial attributes to meet the market’s demand. In other words, a farmer chooses a marketing outlet by assessing the return on expected utility while accounting for the related investments, transaction costs, and (other) variable costs. Smallholders can choose pre-harvest contractors, private contractors, or APMC mandis to generate the highest positive utility. Using a simple expected utility framework, Eq. (1) defines Uji as farmer i’s relative advantage from selecting market channel j compared to alternatives, such that: Uij = ( πm ij −π0 ij ) (1) where πm ij represents the utility of profit derived from market j if selected by smallholder i. The average utility of profits derived if any market other than j is selected is denoted by π0 ij. The first component in the calculation of profits, the revenue, is critically determined by the price received by producers due to their marketing choices. We estimate the following regression model to assess the rela­ tionship between the choice of market channel and the price farmers receive: Ln(Pie) = α + βChoiceie + δDistanceie + λInfoie + ζ[Choiceie × Distanceie] + ϕ[Choiceie × Infoie] + γe + ηe + εie, (2) 8 Women comprise more than 42% of the agricultural labor force in India, yet they own less than 2% of its farmland (Mehta, 2018). Negi et al. (2018) report a sample composition of 94% male-headed households.