 Adding 15 g sodium bicarbonate per kg composite feed mixture with high concentrate (roughage to concentrate ratio: 25 : 75) improved feed intake, increased growth by 35% and increased cellulose digestibility in lambs. Trans- inoculation of goat rumen liquor into sheep rumen increased DMI (g/day) of Leucaena leaves. Animals consumed 495 g DM/day in control and 554 g in trans- inoculated group. Infusion of goat rumen liquor improved ruminal protease, amylase, carboxymethylase and filter paper degrading enzymes. Dietary sodium carbonate (15 g) supplementation improved the digestibility of structure carbohydrate. The rumen ciliate protozoal populations, total volatile fatty acids, total nitrogen and TCA, ppt-N contents significantly increased and ruminal ammonia concentration decreased by addition of buffer in diet. In weaner lambs the overall growth rate and feed conversion efficiency improved by 12-15% due to incorporation of buffer agent in high concentrate based ration. Alkaline hydrogen peroxide treatment of mustard straw weakened the ligno- cellulosic bondage of the low grade roughage and improved dry-matter intake and nitrogen retention by sheep. Poultry Nursery rearing under confinement is advocated for Vanaraja chicks up to 6 weeks of age to ensure high rate of livability and optimal growth. Feeding Vanaraja chicks with high or low density diets determines the economics of rearing in nursery. Vanaraja chicks needed diets with 2,400 kcal ME/kg and 16% protein to achieve optimal performance. When compared with diet containing 2,800 kcal ME/kg and 23% protein, a net reduction of 15% in dietary energy and 30% in protein could be achieved without any compromise on performance, which implies better nutrient utilization by these birds. Increased ME content improved body weight, feed conversion efficiency, meat yields and abdominal fat in broiler breeders. But diets with 2,650 kcal ME/kg produced results statistically equivalent to higher ME levels, indicating that these birds reach adequacy in performance with 2,650 kcal ME in feed, which would be cost effective and economical. Low energy favoured better dry matter digestibility and high Ca retention in bone but not phosphorus. The colour synthetic lines responded equally well for body weight and feed conversion efficiency, with all levels of protein tried, but 18.5% protein produced ideal effects also on feed intake and immune competence. Sire and dam synthetic lines of colour broilers performed well even on low plain of nutrition, which have favourable economic implications on feed cost. The nutritional package of practices developed at the CARI for adoption by the farmers and the industry will help in successful stretching of the quail production to different parts of the country. Methionine a limiting amino acid in practical diets based on maize-soybean meal, has to be supplemented in diets with synthetic methionine, but is costly and at times not easily available.