 Previously, a massive amount of scholarly literature and material on the use of precision irrigation water-saving systems in the disciplines of agriculture and engineering have been available. Thus, systematically productive approaches were considered to assess the advanced knowledge on the mentioned topic. For the literature search (see Figure 1), ‘precision irrigation’, ‘smart irrigation’, ‘IoT-based irrigation’, ‘modern irrigation tools’, ’smart irrigation monitoring tools’, smart irrigation control tools’, ‘smart irrigation architecture’, and ‘irrigation water management’ were selected as the keywords for the online search. However, to achieve a speedy review, core studies were comprehensively searched using online scholar databases, including China National Knowledge Infrastructure, Google Scholar PubMed, Web of Science, Scopus, ResearchGate, AGRO, MDPI, Cambridge Journals, IEEE Xplore, Taylor & Francis, Wiley Online Library, ScienceDirect, Hindawi, and Springer, reviewing 225 articles from different countries. Published research work (articles, dissertation theses, and proceedings articles) included in this analysis were open-access papers and those from journals to which Jiangsu University Library subscribes. After searching the keywords, Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 4 of 40 the literature was carefully read and further screened according to the criteria to include or exclude literature for review proceedings. The literature was directly considered if the article significantly related to the study-selected keywords. The data, such as titles, keywords, abstracts, authors, and references, obtained by extracting and exporting the literature, were considered the original dataset for this study. However, the research articles published in languages other than English were excluded from the analysis. The articles selected for the review were discussed in thematically relevant sections of the manuscript. Figure 1. Literature search approach. 3. Results and Discussion This section briefly discusses and analyzes the results of the previously published research studies considered for summarizing their results. These studies were selected following a brief literature search on different online search engines, focusing on precision/smart irrigation water-saving systems. 3.1. Traditional Irrigation Method and Its Modernization for Enhancing Water Use Efficiency The traditional irrigation sector has significantly changed over the last 50 years. The reason behind this change is the rise in climate change, drought issues, urbanization, and population. This trend has increased researcher’s interest in searching for and developing modern methods of optimizing irrigation to get higher WUE and crop yield [2,11]. Generally, two irrigation methods are included (see Figure 2): (1) gravity-driven (traditional method) and (2) pressure-driven (modern methods) [18]. A study by Olamide et al.