 In first group of 5 animals (T ), the paste of harjore was applied, and in second group of 5 animals (T2), the plaster of paris was applied. The X-ray was taken before application of plaster, and blood and serum were collected for haematological and biochemical estimation. Heart rate, respiration rate, rectal temperature, feed intake, extent of lameness and body weight- bearing capacity on different time intervals, i.e. 0,15,30,45 and 60 days, were studied for clinical evaluation. Blood samples were collected on days 0, 15, 30,45 and 60 and haemoglobin (Hb), packed cell volume (PCV), total erythrocyte count (TEC) and total leucocyte count (TLC) were estimated by cell-counter (Sysmex, Japan). Calcium (Ca), phosphorus (P) and serum alkaline phosphatase (SAP) were also estimated. In group I (T1), the X-ray of fractured bones was taken on day 0 and a layer of paste of harjore was applied on the fractured bone. The thick layer of paste over the part was also covered by cloth and it was tightly secured by a thin rope. After 5 days the layer of the paste was removed and the next layer was spread after 15 days. The layer of paste was not removed and left for 60 days. In group II (T2) the fractured bone was aligned and a layer of cotton was spread and plaster of paris (PoP) was applied and left for 60 days. Table 2. Effect of fracture healing using Harjore (Cissus quadrangularis) paste on rectal temperature in Dogs at CSKHPKV *= Day at which treatment was instituted; P> 0.05 between days as well as groups; N= number of animals in each group; Group A = Untreated control, Group B=animals treated with harjore paste Table 3. Effect of fracture healing using harjore (Cissus quadrangularis) paste on respiration rate in dogs at CSKHPKV Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 4. Effect of fracture healing using harjore (Cissus quadrangularis) paste on heart rate in dogs at CSKHPKV Table 6. Comparative data of different parameters after treatment of fractured bone with harjore paste at different intervals in cattle at BAU RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Clinical observations in dogs The rectal temperature, respiration rate and heart rate in the animals of both the groups remained within the normal range and did not show any significant change during the entire course of study (Tables 2, 3 and 4). Feed intake was also normal in all the animals of both groups throughout the period of study. The animals of both the therapeutic groups showed moderate pain and lameness in the affected limb up to day 3 after operation. The pain gradually decreased in all the animals subsequently. The rate of decline of pain was however greater in the animals of group B when compared with those of control group (A). In general, the animals of group B showed early complete weight bearing on the affected limb, i.e. from day 25 onwards compared with day 38 in control group (Table 5).