 Figures: Author is required to submit high-resolution (2 MB) images, preferably with the initial submission but no later than revision stage. Electronic (2 MB) images (figures and schemes) must be at a minimum resolution of 600 d.p.i. for line-drawings (black and white) and 300 d.p.i. for colour or gray-scale. Colour figures must be supplied in CMYK not RGB colors. Please ensure that the prepared electronic image files print at a legible size (with lettering of at least 2 mm). A number of file formats are acceptable, including: PowerPoint (.ppt), Tagged Image File Format (.tif), Encapsulated PostScript (.eps), Joint Photographic Experts Group (.jpg), Graphics Interchange Format (.gif), Adobe Illustrator (.ai) (please save your files in Illustrator’s EPS format), Portable Network Graphics (.png), Microsoft Word (.doc), Rich Text Format (.rtf), and Excel (.xls) but not Portable Document Format (PDF). Type in 1.5- space everywhere. Rewrite Your article Language: Use simple words; Use short sentences in a logical order; Use active voice; Avoid passive voice; Relate all sentences with each other; Maintain coherence; Paragraphs should be short and readable; Short paragraphs give pause to readers; Give human touch to your article to make it interesting, and Give practical information Writing for success stories: Who has got success in; Introducing new technology/methodology etc.; Diversification of any farming system in a particular area for more return; How he/she is inspiration to other farmer; What is cost:benefit ratio of the farm produce?; What are the prospects of that farm commodity?; Show the difference in adoption of that particular technique, variety, seed, tool etc. Summary: Summary of article should be provided at the end of article under the heading “Summary”. Papers should be composed in MS Word, and double spaced throughout (including references and tables). Article (including illustrations) should be uploaded on Indian Horticulture site (as given on top), after a careful check up of typographical errors. Submission preparation checklist  As part of the submission process, authors are required to check off their submission’s compliance with all of the following items, and submissions may be returned to authors that do not adhere to these guidelines.  The submission has not been previously published, nor is it before another journal for consideration (or an explanation has been provided in Comments to the Editor).; and submission file should be in Microsoft Word file format.  The text is 1.5-spaced; uses a 12-point font; employs italics, rather than underlining (except with URL addresses); and all illustrations, figures, and tables are placed within the text at the appropriate points, rather than at the end. Data is correct, authentic and updated.  If submitting to a peer-reviewed section of the Indian Horticulture, the instructions in Ensuring a Blind Review have been followed.