15: Public Private partnerships, Strengthening of linkages with industries/ public sector undertakings / private institutions for collaboration in the field of research and education. It was agreed that universities may encourage the strengthening of linkages with industries /public sector undertakings for collaboration in the field of research and education. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 11.16: Commercialization of Technologies. Granting of early approval from the 20 National Biodiversity Board (NBA) for speedy commercialization of technologies. The issue may be taken up by the concerned university with NBA. [Action: VC, UAS, Bangalore] Agenda 11.17: Import of potential exotic genetic material. Import of exotic genetic material be made as per the existing guidelines and provisions. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 11.18: Provision to visit international organization Provision has been included under the proposed National Agriculture Education Project (NAEP). [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 11.19:Faculty exchange programme Provision has been included under the proposed National Agriculture Education Project (NAEP). [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 12: Agenda from KVKs Agenda 12.1 Difference in Pay (SMS & Program Coordinator) of KVKs The pay structure of KVK staff is regulated as per the MoU signed between ICAR and the respective host organization. Agenda 12.2: Release of funds for civil works of KVKs The funds are usually released well in advance. However, sometimes delay is caused as per RE. Agenda 12.2.1: Converting the post of junior stenographer (Grade-III) of KVKs as typist cum computer operator The point was discussed but was not agreed to. Agenda 12.2.2: Providing funds for maintenance of KVK instructional farm The provision for providing funds for the KVK instructional farms already exists and will continue in XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Extn)] Agenda 12.3: Establishment of new KVKs and transfer of one old KVK from IGKV, Raipur The matter will be taken up with CGKV, Durg, by Zonal Project Director, Zone 7. 21 [Action: DDG (Extn)] Agenda 12.4: KVKs as Centres of Excellence It was informed that during the XII Plan some selected KVKs may be considered as specialized KVKs. [Action: DDG (Extn)] Agenda 12.5: Sale of Fish seeds by KVK The KVKs with Fishery scientists and potential for fish seed production may take necessary action. [Action: VC, KUFOS, Kochi] Agenda 13: Agenda items on AICRPs Agenda 13.1&13.2: Establishment of AICRP on Lac (AICRPs) and provision of up- gradation or new AICRP/Network centre (AICRPs): up-gradation of AICRP sub Centre on soybean at JNKVV, Jabalpur. The matter may be taken up at the time of the finalization of the EFC of the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (CS)] Interface of Directors and VCs of SAUs on 19-01-2014 Dr. P.K. Sharma, ADG (EPD) invited and welcomed Shri P. K. Pujari, Addl. Secy. DARE &FA, Dr. Gurbachan Singh, Chairman, ASRB, Dr. R.B. Singh-Former Dir., IARI & President NAAS, Mr. Arvind Kaushal, Addl. Secy. DARE & Secy. ICAR, Dr. A. K.