 A multifuel boiler was also designed and developed for substrate sterilization suitable for rural areas. An outdoor mushroom growing chamber was designed and developed to help rural farmers with space and resource constraints to grow mushroom. The unit was also integrated with solar energy. The use of paddy stray in mushroom production indirectly reduces the straw burning. Twenty- six mechanized spawn production labs have been established in public and private sector in 14 states to alleviate the problem of availability of quality spawn, which is the primary requirement of mushroom cultivation. The transfer of technology activities to rural and socially deprived population was carried out through Tribal Sub Plan and NEH funds of ICAR. Spawn production laboratories were established at Saregachi (West Bengal), KVK (Nellore, Andhra Pradesh) and KVK (Mudigere, Karnataka). Training of rural woman and youth in mushroom cultivation, spawn production and value-added products were provided at Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh in 2018. Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 22 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Besides, due to the efforts of ICAR-CIARI, Port Blair, Dr. Nitu Sindhu a woman entrepreneur has not only started mushroom cultivation but has turned spawn producer to cater the need of the 30 mushroom growers in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Through AICRP- Mushroom project, ICAR-CIARI imparted trainings on mushroom spawn production to the interested progressive farmers for mushroom spawn production to meet out the growing demand of mushroom spawn all over the islands 3.10. Seed villages To be self-reliant, ICAR institutes need to make arrangements for the availability of seeds or planting material of improved varieties by themselves. It may be difficult to cater to the diverse and vast country of ours. In such situation, Seed Village concept of ICAR has really provided us to make the Mahatma’s dream come true by empowering the farmers to produce the seeds of improved varieties where by they not only get employment but get the profitable returns also as the produce are bought back by the institute. This ‘Seed Village Concept’ has helped in spreading of varieties and hybrids of onion, chilli and tomato developed under ICAR. 3.11. Strengthening farmer collectives The increasing role of farmer collectives is recognized by ICAR in mainstreaming the need for integrating commercially viable value addition opportunities. This is attempted through increasingly participatory approaches with FPO’s as a key partner in designing crop value chain solutions. In this connection, the participatory development of FPO’s involved in turmeric farming and value addition in Andhra Pradesh by ICAR IISR is noteworthy. Demonstration of Turmeric boiler (Improved TNAU Model of 250 kg capacity) was undertaken at several locations along with massive training programmes focused on value addition and quality improvement.