 On basis of polyphasic characterization and Koch’s postulates study, association of phytopathogenic bacteria Pantoea dispersa was identified as a potential and principal pathogenic agent causing inner cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) boll rots in Maharashtra state, India. Inner boll rot of cotton CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 67 Effect of blast on grain size of finger millet: Blast pathogen Pyricularia grisea infect the spike or finger at flowering stage. Yield loss due this disease varies from 28–36% and may go up under favourable conditions for disease. Twenty-six finger millet accessions were tested for effect of finger blast on grain size, which affects yield. Various types of symptoms were recorded on finger and neck. Healthy looking and blasted fingers were sampled from each accession, at the time of harvest, and threshed separately. It was observed that the pathogen can infect a finger at a single or multiple site along its length. Lesion size gradually increases and reaches the base of the spikelet. Such spikelet generally fails to form seed. Spikelets away from the lesion may form seed but GE48 and GE64 showed >3.0 g/1,000. Grain size reduction varied from 2–91%. In majority of the acc. (15 Nos), there was more than 40% reduction. Accession GE140, 147, 168 and 416 showed least reduction of grain size due to finger blast. Determination of life-table parameters of fall armyworm fed on maize: Thorough knowledge of life-table traits is essential for the development of Various stages of finger and neck blast infection and severity: (a) initial infection, one or more small lesion(s) on finger, (b) increase in lesion size, spikelets close to the lesion are affected, (c) drying of finger, proximal part of finger from the point of infection dries up, (d) initial infection on neck, (e) infection close to finger base, one or more fingers are affected, and (f) whole neck blasted, all fingers dead with unfilled grains. Change of seed color and shape due to blast infection: (a) healthy seed, (b) discolored and deformed infected seed, and (c) growth of pathogen on styler end. become chaffy up due to cut-off of nutrient supply from the mother plant. Sometimes neck of peduncle is infected and fingers in such plant dried up either partially or completely. Infected seeds were deformed and darker in colour. On incubation such seeds often develop pathogen growth. Grain size (weight/1000) varied from 1.81–3.38 g/1,000 in healthy and 0.23– 2.20 in blasted fingers. Fifteen accessions recoded >2.5 g grain size in healthy fingers of which GPU28, Life-table parameters of FAW (a) Neonates; (b) Larva; (c) Female adult; (d) Egg mass sustainable integrated pest management strategies. Therefore, life-table parameters for FAW were worked out on maize starting from a cohort of 100 neonate larvae under laboratory conditions. The survival fraction among larval stages remained highest (0.98) at fifth instar and lowest (0.