 Although these programmes cover all states and union territories (UTs), they do not help identify districts/ areas that face the dual burden of child health status and vulnerability of agriculture to climate change, thus are at an urgent need of climate action. This paper uses the data on the status of the health param- eters (underweight, wasting, stunting, anaemia and diarrhoea) as recorded at the district level by the National Family Health Sur- vey (NFHS-4) 2015/16 and computes child health index (CHI). The association of CHI with agricultural vulnerability was analysed at district level. 2. Literature review Climate change impacts adversely on climate sensitive sectors such as agriculture and also on the availability of water for dif- ferent use and on human health. The impact of climate change on agriculture in turn affects the food and nutrition security of a country. Thus, there is a need for adaptation measures to deal with 2092 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 climate variability and change in terms of policy, research and in- stitutional interventions. In order to develop and target appropri- ate adaptation measures, it is important to identify regions that are relatively more affected by climate change. Hence, the ICAR launched the project “National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agri- culture” in 2011 to analyse the vulnerability of agriculture to cli- mate change and variability at the district level as one of its activ- ities ( Rama Rao et al., 2013 ). Vulnerabilty index for climate and sector speciﬁc assessments have been the norm ( Kumar et al., 2016 ; Thathsarani and Gu- naratne, 2018 ; Mukherjee and Siddique, 2020 ). However, vulner- ability of health and nutrition status is determined by decisions and actions in many other sectors, including agriculture via food production, food distribution which determines access, availability, affordability ( Ncube et al., 2017 ). Various vulnerability indices developed so far include indices focusing on the impact of climate change on human health such as developed by Hahn et al. (2009) and Monterroso et al. (2014) , which were based on three components of the vulnerability i.e. exposure, sensitivity and adaptive capacity. This includes various health indicators under each component. Kumar et al. (2016) as- sessed district wise vulnerability to climate change in Karnataka which is one of the most drought prone states of India. District- wise time series data on area and yield (20 0 0–01 to 20 09–10) collected from the Directorate of Economics and Statistics, Kar- nataka and Ministry of agriculture, GOI, was used. Vulnerability to climate change was calculated with the combination of four sub-indices-crop production losses, exposure, sensitivity and adap- tive capacity. Based on this, the climate change related vulnera- ble areas were identiﬁed using vulnerability index.