 The total amount of water in a water balance remains the same, meaning that if one water component changes this has a direct bearing on other parts of the water balance. Accounting for water, and all its uses and return ﬂows within a water system is thus nec- essary to understand impacts of interventions as a redistribution of water resources. In agricultural water management technological interventions may look good at farm-ﬁeld level as they reduce local water losses, yet they often reduce return ﬂows (excess of surface drainage water, percola- tion to groundwater) and thus result in lesser water for downstream use (Keller and Keller, 1995). For instance, modernized irrigation systems (e.g. drip, sprinkler, center-pivot systems) are frequently touted for their water saving potential at farm level, yet as long as water inputs into the ir- rigation systems are not equally reduced to the water saving amount, it is more likely that production increases and return ﬂows diminish, meaning that less water becomes available to reallocate to other sectors and water users (Grafton et al., 2018; Pérez-Blanco et al., 2021). Second, transpiration of crops is by far the largest agricultural water user, yet making gains in producing more biomass with same amounts of transpiration is extremely challenging as it is largely ﬁxed by the photosyn- thetic efﬁciency of a crop. Meaning, there is little scope to increase biomass production with the same amount of water (Sinclair et al., 1984; Molden and Oweis, 2007; Steduto et al., 2007). An exception to this is the possibility to make gains in commercial yield with the same amount of water. This has been one of the main successes of the green revolution (more commercial yield per crop) yet the reported global crop yields by FAO over the past 20 years for key crops are fairly stable except for in- creases in bananas and potatoes (FAOSTAT, 2022). Indeed agronomists also recently warned that yield gains in major staple food grains (maize, rice and wheat) are slowing (Peng et al., 1999; Valvo et al., 2018; Rizzo et al., 2022). Gains in agricultural production should thus be assessed against increases in general agricultural inputs (e.g. water use, agricultural land, agrochemicals). Third, decisions around agricultural water management are contested as diverse actors have divergent perspectives and interests, and they try to shape and reshape decisions (Mollinga and Bolding, 2004; Boelens et al., 2016; Zwarteveen et al., 2017). Whether decisions relate to more water, less water, water of a different quality or hydraulic infrastructures, any change of course for agricultural water management is likely to evoke disputes over decisions, norms, knowledge and authority as actors attempt to reshape decisions to ﬁt their own perspective (Boelens et al., 2019; Hommes, 2022).