 Both qualitative and quantitative losses ranging from 20-50%, have serious economic repercussions in fresh produce. Harvest and post-harvest losses of major vegetables like onion (8.20%), tomato (12.44%), cabbage (9.37%), cauliflower (9.56%), garden pea (7.45%), potato (7.32%) and mushroom (12.5%) has been recorded. Profitable value-added products of tomato (pulp, puree, paste, ketchup, soup, sauces, juices, flakes, powder, dehydrated and canned products), chilli (sauces, powder, pickle), potato (wafers, chips, boiled, fried, baked, roasted, steamed and even in several pressed forms such as French fries, chips, papad, flakes, dice, cubes, granules, flour, and canned potatoes), garden peas (frozen and dehydrated form), bitter gourd (chips, powder, juice, pickles), bottle gourd (juice, instant kheer mix), carrot (powder, juice, flakes, candy, halwa, grits, soup, dahlia, baby food and canned carrot), ginger (paste, candy, preserve, pickle, chocolate, beverages, juice, powder, oleoresin, zinger tea, ice cream), onion (flakes, powder) etc. are more in demand. Integrated pest management Insect pests cause an yield loss of 33-40%. Growers relay on chemical control as first choice. Around 13- 14% of total pesticides used in the country are applied on vegetables. Parasitoids like Apanteles taragamae and Therophilus javanus both effectively managed Maruca vitrata (legume pod borer), Diaphania indica (cucurbits pest) and Thala flavoorbitalis (eggplant fruit and shoot borer). As plant protection measure, application of neem oil/neem seed kernel extract (4%), Trichoderma, Jeevaamrit and Panchagavya are effective and safe for vegetable crops. The number of predators, viz. spiders in cowpea and Coccinellids in cabbage survives and multiply significantly in organic field. Integrated disease management Crop rotation with cereals reduce wilt of pea. Apply Trichoderma powder @ 5 kg/ha in soil within a week of ploughing of green manure crops is beneficial. Soil solarization by mulching polythene sheet prior to planting of eggplant and tomato reduced Verticillium Food trap for fruit fly management Indian Farming 52 January 2025 wilt by 25-95%. Biological seed treatment by priming on seed, soaking the seeds, seedling dipping, dry powder treatments etc. are helpful. Treatment of Trichoderma (spore concentration 106 to 109/ml) @ 5-8 g/kg of seeds or 10-20 g powder per m2 area in nursery bed is essential. Green manuring of sunhemp along with soil application of Trichoderma @ 3-5 kg/ha, managed most of vegetable diseases. Foliar spray of Aspergillus niger-V isolate, control Alternaria blight and die-back/Anthracnose of chillies. SUMMARY Adoption of newly developed high-yielding, bio- fortified, and abiotic and biotic stress resistance varieties/ hybrids along with good agricultural practices will be suitable for climate resilient vegetable cultivation.