5' distance. Shri Babubhai Premajibhai of Bagadu Village has made an implement locally called as 'Dabaliyu' to overcome this difficulty. Infact, it is a type of 'Santi' but has an innovative shape and structure. Another main frame of 'Santi' is by keeping 3 to 5 feet distance. Coulters are inserted in both the frame in such a way that each can make separate furrows. Coulters of the first frame open the furrows at 9' distance and coulters in another frame to make the furrows a same distance but between the already opened 2 furrows. At a result of the new furrow at the same distance between two furrows remains 4.5'. It does not cause any damage or disturbance to the previously sown row and requires less than half of sowing time as well as draft power compared to the conventional 'Santi' (Bagadu, Gujarat). Luhar (1992) 96 Korgi (four tyne seed drill) It is made of jack or rose or Kooli wood for bowel, Babool wood for head piece,bamboo or iron for seed tubes and tynes. It weighs about 25-30 lbs. Operated by 2 bullocks and 2 persons for line sowing of crops which covers 3 to 4 acres/day. The depth of the sowing varies from 2 to 2.5 inches and average draught is about 84 lbs. The seed drill is hitched to the yoke with a beam. One drives the bullock and the other fills the seed bowels by rotating movement of hand (Shimoga and Tumkur, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 97 Korrige (six tyned seed drill) It is used for line sowing of fingermillet and covers 3.5 acres/day. The average draught in red sandy soils is about 125 lbs. The depth of sowing with this implement is about 1 inch. The beam of the drill is hitched to the yoke by means of a rope. It is operated by a pair of bullocks and 2 persons. 1 person drives the bullocks and the other fills the seed bowel. About 90% of the farmers use the seed drill (Bangalore, Tumkur and Kolar, Karnataka). ICAR (E) (1960) 131 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 98 Argada (seed drill) It is made with Babool, sagwan and bamboo, weigh about 60 lbs, operated by 2 bullocks and 4 persons for sowing of cotton. It is hitched to the yoke by means of a rope and covers 3 acres/day. The depth of cotton seed can be sown is 3 to 3.25 inches with the row spacing of rows of 24 inches (Nagpur, Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 99 Wheat sowing plate Generally, wheat is sown by using narrow coulters of 2' ' 3.5' width in multipurpose 'Santi'. Due to this the plant grows close to each other within the narrow row, and the space between the 2 rows within a furrow remains more or less vacant.This leads to ineffective use of the moisture.To use this moisture in the vacant space between 2 rows, wide coulter was developed. Gradually a unique plate or box (8' × 4' × 2') was developed for sowing of wheat. One side of the box which opens the furrow in the soil is kept open and a small round hole is made for inserting of seed tube on the upper surface.