10 ha/h, field efficiency 78%, weeding efficiency 80.2% and fertilizer application efficiency 93%, at a forward speed of 1.5 km/h. The fertilizer is released at a distance of 86.5±17 mm from the plant. Cotton stalk puller: Uprooting and disposal of deep rooted crops such as cotton after the harvesting is a serious problem in crop residue management. Two-row tractor operated rear offset cotton stalk puller-cum- conveyor was developed. It consists of two cotton stalk pulling units and conveying units. The uprooted crop conveys towards the rear of machine by means of chain type conveyor. The actual field capacity of machine is 0.18 ha/h at an average forward speed of 1.2 km/h with a field efficiency of 80%. The uprooting efficiency and conveying efficiency ranged from 86–94% and 85–91%, respectively. The developed machine can uproot 54 plants/minute. The labour requirement for uprooting operation with the developed machine is about 5.7 man- h/ha as against 77 man-h/ha in the conventional method, and its cost of operation is about ` 625/h. Pneumatic precision planter: A tractor drawn battery operated two-row drum type pneumatic precision dibbler/ planter was developed for sowing pigeon pea. It can sow one or two seeds per hill and the row to row spacing can be adjusted with 75 and 90 cm and plant spacing of 10 to 90 cm. It could be operated at forward speed of 4–6 km/ h at operating pressure of 2–3 kPa. The field capacity is 0.5–0.6 ha/h and field efficiency 80%. The approximate cost of the developed equipment is ` 50,000, and operational cost ` 1,000–1,200/ha. Automated control system for tractor implements: At present, the draught control system of tractors is inefficient to keep draught in line with slip so that the operator has to control lever frequently for achieving the optimum draught. A microcontroller based automatic slip and draught control system was developed for 2WD tractors to maintain the wheel slip and implement draught in a pre-specified range of slip and draught, respectively, by automatically adjusting the depth of operation. The system continuously measures the wheel slip and draught in the field and communicates to the hydraulic system for depth adjustment if the wheel slip and draught of implement falls outside the desired range. The wheel slip is calculated using the actual and theoretical speeds of the tractor, computed by measuring the output pulse from the radar sensor and revolution per minute of rear wheels respectively. The draught requirement is measured by especially designed load pins. This system can be installed on any make and model of 2WD tractor. Measuring efficiency of the developed system is 99%. The developed automatic draught control and slip control system can reduce the fuel consumption up to 14% and increase the field capacity up to 36% in vertisol. Package of machinery for banana crop: A package of machinery was developed for ease of doing different operations in banana cultivation.