 Plastic boxes were maintained at 22 °C for ﬁve days. After the incubation period, the cotyledons were carefully removed and examined under a light microscope for the presence of sporangia. Subsequently, the cotyledons were air- dried in a laminar ﬂow hood and placed in Petri dishes containing potato dextrose agar (PDA) supplemented with streptomycin (100 µg/mL). Isolation was also performed directly from symptomatic root tissues. The roots were rinsed under tap water to remove soil particles, cut into small pieces (approximately 4 cm), surface-sterilized in a 2% sodium hypochlorite solution for 30 s, dipped in 70% ethanol for 30 s, and rinsed three times with SDW. The disinfested root fragments were placed on sterile ﬁlter paper, and air-dried under sterile conditions, and then, fragments were placed onto Petri dishes containing the same PDA–streptomycin medium (three fragments per dish). For both methods, all the Petri dishes were incubated in the dark at 22 °C for three days. The growing colonies were subjected to a series of subcultures until pure cultures were obtained for further characterization. 2.3. Identiﬁcation of the Isolates Since our study focused on oomycetes, all fungus-like isolates were initially grouped into morphotypes based on their colony growth characteristics, including both surface and reverse colony appearances, after 7 days of incubation on PDA and 22 °C in the dark. Morphological features of sporangia, oogonia, antheridia, chlamydospores, and hyphal Agriculture 2025, 15, 435 4 of 15 swellings were also checked and compared with species already described in the literature [30,31]. In addition, DNA sequence data analysis was employed to conﬁrm the species identiﬁcation of all isolates. Genomic DNA was extracted from the mycelium of 7-day-old pure culture, following the method described by Doyle and Doyle [32]. The complete internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of rDNA was ampliﬁed and sequenced for all isolates using the primers ITS1 (5′-TCCGTAGGTGAACCTGCGG-3′) and ITS4 (5′TCCTCCGCTTA TTGATATGC-3′) [33]. Polymerase chain reactions (PCR) were carried out in 25 µL reaction volumes, containing 2.5 µL of extracted DNA, 17.4 ultrapure water (PCR grade; Thermo Scientiﬁc, Carlsbad, CA, USA), 0.1 µL DreamTaq Hot Start Green Taq Polymerase (Thermo Scientiﬁc, Carlsbad, CA, USA), 2.5 µL green buﬀer (Thermo Scientiﬁc, Carlsbad, CA, USA), 0.5 µL dNTP mix, and 1 µL of each primer. The PCR conditions were as follows: an initial denaturation at 94 °C for 1 min, followed by 35 cycles of denaturation at 94 °C for 25 s, annealing at 54 °C for 35 s, and extension at 72 °C for 45 s, with a ﬁnal elongation step of 8 min at 72 °C in a thermal cycler. The PCR products were visualized through migration in 1.5% agarose gel electrophoresis. Sequencing was then performed bi-directionally using the Sanger method. The resulting sequences were edited utilizing BioEdit software v7.0.5.