 of participants areas covered courses Men Women Farmers and farm women Rural youth Extension personnel Sponsored programmes* Vocational programmes (g) Extension Programmes conducted (h) Production and supply of technology products (i) Convergence and linkages (Specify the activities & outcomes) (j) Soil Water and Plant Analysis (k) Human Resources Development (l) Action Plan in brief for the next year S. No. Names of the Crop/ Major Thrust areas Nature of Operational Village Enterprise problems identified to tackle interventions identified the problems proposed to be implemented* *Please mention TAR/FLD/Training/Extension Activities/or their combination (m) Revolving Fund Status (` in lakh) Year Opening balance as on Income during Expenditure Net balance in hand as on 1st April of previous year the year during the year 1st April of current year (`) (`) (`) (`) (n) Utilization of KVK funds during the Previous Year/Current Year (` in lakh) Agenda Item No.04: Achievements (To be given in bullet form only for each intervention under Technology Assessment and Refinement and Frontline Demonstrations undertaken by each Subject Matter Specialist in the following format and presented by them) (i) Problem identified (ii) Technology Intervention Undertaken 180 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (iii) Mode of Implementation (iv) Outcome (v) Action for up-scaling/recommendation of the outcome (vi) Any other special activities worth mentioning (Success Stories/Case Studies) Agenda Item No.05: Discussion on deliverables decided in previous SAC meeting and achievements against each one of them. Agenda Item No.06: Interactions and discussions Agenda Item No.07: Finalization of action points delineating actual deliverables in terms of output and impact for the next one year. Agenda Item No.08: Any other agenda with the permission from the Chairman Note: Additionally, Chief Scientist-cum-Head need to collect information from members regarding suggestions for improvement of technical programme and its implementation by KVK. The collected information may be compiled and included in the Agenda/Proceedings 181 Appendices APPENDIX XXVII Schedule for Submission of Reports Sl.No. Name of Report Due date 1. Monthly accounts strictly in the prescribed proforma 3rd of succeeding month 2. Quarterly expenditure statements for the following quarters in the prescribed proforma along with staff strength: April – June 3rd July July – September 3rd October October – December 3rd January January – March 3rd April 3. Audit Utilization Certificates in strictly in the prescribed proforma 30th April of every year 182 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK APPENDIX XXVIII Krishi Vigyan Kendra, ...................... File No. ...................... Date ...................... SANCTION ORDER Sanction of the Chairman is hereby conveyed for an amount of `. .................... (Rupees .........................................................