 • Recommended block plantation of sunflower crop to avoid parakeet damage • Evaluated & standardized 18 different ethnic practices of bird management strategies. • Crude extract of botanicals viz. Andrographis paniculata and Ipomea carnea @ of 10 ml/lit. showed significant (60‐85%) repellent action against depredatory birds both in captivity and field conditions on crops like paddy, sorghum, safflower, and sunflower. • Planting of some fruit bearing trees like Manila tamarind, flame of the forest (Butea mono sperma) and mulberry and Salvadora persica attracts large number of insectivorous birds. • Sowing tall crops among the shorter crops provides natural perches (Growing few maize or jowar plants). • Implementation of IPM concept with the Ornithology as one of the potential component on the crops like Cotton, Red gram in checking the Heliothis population • White grub prone areas were recommended three bullocks driven ploughing in three consecutive days and if the soil is dry one or more irrigation prior to ploughing is suggested. 70% of the white grubs population can be controlled before they go for pupation by this method. • 60 cm row distance than 45 cm coupled with spraying of endosulphon 0.07% at the pod formation stage in chickpea will give more encouraging results. • Providing ‘T’ shaped perches 20/acre or 50/ha proved more useful in reducing the Helicoverpa population. www.icar.org.in 113 2002 ‐ 2007 • NPV (250 LE/ha) and Bird perches (@ 20/acre) proved very effective in controlling Helicoverpa armigera in Pigeon pea. • Standardized the nest boxes design for cavity nesting birds in controlling insects & rodent’s pests of various crops. These were validated in the field. • Birds like small green barbet (Megalaima viridis) white checked bulbul (Pycnotus jocosus) and Tree pie (Dendrocitta vagabunda) were recorded to play a vital role in propagation of Momordica dioica a cucurbitaceous climber. It has been proved in the laboratory that the seed found in the excreta of these birds are readily germinated (100%) unlike in seeds harvested manually. • Cattle egret (Bubulus ibis) is identified as potential bio‐control agent and farmer’s friend during all agricultural operations. • Designed and developed agricultural ornithology website. • Published various brochures, stickers, posters and bulletin’s highlighting the role of bird both at regional and national level. • Cattle egret is the best avian predator in the agricultural landscape and remains present during every agricultural operation to capture insect pests. Hence, it should be given due importance in the IPM programme. The species can be encouraged to breed on thorny trees at the edges of village ponds near human settlements. • Developed habitat suitability index of key depredatory birds in relation to their spatial distribution and cropping pattern, which enable to evolve location specific technologies to minimize the crop damage. www.icar.org.