78 q/ha in peninsular zone (PZ), maturity: 120 days, resistance to sorghum downey mildew (SDM), curvularia leaf spot (CLS), Rajasthan downey mildew (RDM), and moderate resistance to turcicum leaf blight (TLB), banded leaf and sheath blight (BLSB), charcoal rot (CR) and bacterial stalk rot (BSR), moderate tolerant against Chilo partellus. Suitable for irrigated condition in peninsular zone (PZ) during Rabi season, average yield: 92.71 q/ ha in peninsular zone (PZ), maturity: 120 days, resistance to sorghum downey mildew (SDM) and moderate resistance turcicum leaf blight (TLB) and charcoal rot (CR), moderate tolerant against Chilo partellus and Sesamia inferens. Suitable for irrigated and rainfed conditions of north western plain zone (NWPZ), average yield: 97.57 q/ha in NWPZ, maturity: 120 days, moderate resistance to maydis leaf blight (MLB), turcicum leaf blight, banded leaf and sheath blight, charcoal rot, Rajasthan downey mildew (RDM), curvularia leaf spot (CLS), common rust and polysora rust, moderate tolerant against Chilo partellus. Suitable for kharif season in PZ and CWZ, average yield: 14.36 q/ha in PZ and 22.99 q/ha in CWZ, moderate susceptible to moderate resistant against c. rust and turcicum leaf blight (TLB) in PZ, moderate resistant against c. rot, Rajasthan downey mildew (RDM) and curvularia leaf spot (CLS) diseases in CWZ, moderate resistant against Chilo partellus in both PZ and CWZ. Suitable for irrigated condition during kharif season in CWZ, average yield: 26.68 q/ha in CWZ, maturity: early (84 days), moderate resistant to fusarium stalk rot (FSR) and curvularia leaf spot (CLS), moderate tolerant to Chilo partellus. Suitable for irrigated condition during kharif season, average yield: 31.61 q/ha in NEPZ; 43.93 q/ha in PZ and 26.62 q/ha in CWZ, maturity: early (85 days), moderate resistant to maydis leaf blight (MLB) diseases in NEPZ; moderately resistant to c. rot, fusarium stalk rot (FSR) and curvularia leaf spot (CLS), moderately tolerant to Chilo partellus in NEPZ, PZ and CWZ. Suitable for kharif season, average yield: 38.76 q/ ha in NWPZ; 32.94 q/ha in NEPZ and 49.22 q/ha in PZ, maturity: medium (91 days), moderate resistant against MLB and charcoal rot diseases in NWPZ and moderate susceptible against MLB and TLB diseases in NEPZ, moderate resistant against C. Rot, P. Rust and TLB diseases in PZ, moderately resistant against Chilo partellus in both NWPZ, NEPZ and PZ.