 Some of important cultivars are Kashi Nutan, Japanese long green, Straight eight, Pusa sanyog (Fl hybrid) and Poinsette. Musk melon: The most popular cultivars are Kashi Madhu, Arka rajhans, Arka jeet, Pusa sharabati, Pusa madhuras. Water melon: The important varieties are Sugar baby, Improved shipper, Asahi yamato and Durgapura meetha. There are several cultivars, locally grown which are named after the region in which they are grown, such as Farukhabadi, Moradabadi, Faizabadi of Uttar Pradesh. Most of them have fruits with dark green colour or pale green with black strips, moderately sweet with large seeds, weighing 6 to 8 kg, with thick rind. There is a local cultivar of Yamuna river-bed called as Kalagolan, whose flesh is not sweet, but it keeps well for over 2 to 3 months at drastic temperature. Pumpkin and squashes: In pumpkin, a large number of varieties are available in India. They may vary according to colour from white or green, according to shape round or long. The most common varieties are large red, large green, large round, yellow flesh and red flesh. The varieties and cultivars available are Kashi Shishir (Hybrid), Kashi Harit and Kashi Subhangi in Chappan Kaddu (C. pepo) is popular varieties available at ICAR- IIVR, Varanasi. Bottle gourd: A large number of varieties are available for cultivation is Kashi Ganga, Kashi Kiran, Kashi Kundal, Kashi Kirti and Kashi Bahar (Hybrid) is popular varieties. Other vegetable crops: Vegetables, viz. long melon, sponge gourd, ridge gourd, bitter gourd etc. are successfully grown in the riverbed cultivation. Seed rate, seed treatment and sowing/ transplanting: Seed rate varies according to crops to be grown. Sowing is usually done for early crop in 1st fortnight of November and 1st week of December. 1st week of January is the best time for late sowing. The seeds are sown in trench at a distance of 45-60 cm and at a depth March–April 2023 79 Weed management: Major weeds in diara land areas are Euphorbia hirta, Polygonum sp., Eclipta prostrata, Fimbristlylis dichotoma, Sida sp., etc. These weeds can be eradicated manually by pulling, since soil is quite loosened due to excess sand. Herbicides should be avoided completely as it may prove to be hazardous to human, animal and fishes when mixed with running river water. Thatch preparation: In north-west India, when the temperature goes down to 1-2°C in December-January, young plants should be protected from low temperature and frost in their early stages. The thatch screen made of locally available material like paddy straw, Saccharam grass or sugarcane leaves provides protection for the young seedlings. Grass is spread in the month of February over the sand as a bedding and mulch, to protect the tender and young plants and fruits from scorching heat of sand during summer and also stops the vines to drift during strong winds. Cropping pattern: Mixed cropping is usually practiced in riverbeds. Water melon and Musk melon generally go together.