in Line sowing of millet crop by Mizo farmer Sun drying of pearl millet panicle Indian Farming 28 May 2023 Integrated organic nutrient management for soil and plant health management under organic and natural farming Shaon Kumar Das*, V K Mishra, R Laha, E L Devi and T L Bhutia ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Sikkim Centre, Gangtok, Sikkim 737 102 Maintenance of soil fertility may be achieved through organic matter recycling, enrichment of compost, vermicomposting, animal manure, urine, farm yard manure, litter composting, use of botanicals, green manuring, etc. The major challenge in organic agriculture is the availability of huge quantities of organic inputs for satisfying the farm demand. Use of animal excreta-based manure alone is not sufficient for meeting the nutrient needs of the crops. It is therefore, necessary to utilize all the sources available on and off-farm effectively. Natural farming is a sustainable method of farming practices that helps the farmers in retaining soil fertility, rejuvenates soil health to ensure a chemical free agriculture and low cost of production and thereby doubling the income of the farmers. It aims at cultivating plants by promoting self-reliance to farmers while protecting the environment and stimulating harmony between animals, humans and plants for a sustainable development. In this article, all the possible sources of organic nutrients have been discussed for soil and plant health management in organic and natural farming. Keywords: Fertility, Natural farming, Organic nutrient management, Soil I NTEGRATED organic nutrient management refers to maintenance of soil fertility and plant nutrient supply at an optimum level for sustaining desired productivity through optimization of benefits from all possible sources of organic and biological components in an integrated manner. It involves proper combination of chemical fertilizers, organic manure, crop residues, N2 fixing crops (like pulses such as rice bean, black gram (Paheli dal), other pulses and oilseeds such as soybean and biofertilizers suitable to the system of land use and ecological, social and economic conditions. Organic production involves recycling of crop residues, crop rotation, inclusion of legumes in system both in sequence or as an intercrop, green manuring, off-farm waste recycling, use of mineral rocks like rock phosphate, mechanical cultivation, biological pest control and avoiding use of synthetic agrochemicals with Indian Farming 73 (05): 28-31; May 2023 overall objective of sustainable production, maintaining resources and environmental quality. Weed control, soil fertility and management of pest and diseases are the principal challenges associated with organic production. Relevant/ appropriate measures should be taken to ameliorate acid soil.