 Larvae of bark eating caterpillar can be easily destroyed by pouring kerosene oil in the hole and plugging with clay. By using light trap, population of moths can be reduced. Light pruning and centre opening of litchi tree provide enough sunshine, resulting reduced pest incidence. Hand picking of the adult weevils and loopers reduces their incidence up to some extent. Adult weevils, bugs and loopers can also be removed from plants by vigorously shaking a branch over an open, inverted umbrella and collected weevils can then be dumped into a container of soapy water/compost pit. Growing of seasonal flowering plants attract parasites and predators, which play major role in pest suppression. Insect Growth Regulators (IGRs) and avermectins formulations can be used to manage lepidopteran pests and novaluron 10 EC @ 1.5 ml/L, flubendiamide 39.35 SC @ 1.5 ml/5L, emamectin benzoate 5% SG @ 2ml/L and spinosad 45 SC @1.75ml/5L have been found very effective against litchi fruit and shoot borer, leaf roller and looper. Three sprays of any one from above mentioned molecules at 10-15 days interval after fruit attaining pea size, keep the infestation below threshold level. In case of favourable weather conditions (rainy and humid conditions), first spray and second spray may be done with thiocloprid 21.7 SC @ 0.7-1.0 ml/L for better results. Now-a-day, a mixture of thiamethoxam + lambdacyhalothrin @ 2ml/5 L of water has been found very effective against litchi weevils and bugs. Litchi mite can be effectively managed by three alternative spray of any viz. chlorfenapyr 10 EC (3.0 ml/L), spiromesifen 22.9 SC (2.0 ml/L), propargite 57 EC (3.0 ml/L), two in July at 15 days interval and one in October after needing based pruning. For further interaction please write to: Dr. Kuldeep Srivastava (Principal Scientist), ICAR- Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh. *Corresponding author e-mail: kuldeepentoicar@rediffmail.com Emerging insect-pests in litchi Litchi stink bug (Tessaratoma javanica) and the Flower webber were recorded as emerging insect-pest attaining major pest status of litchi. The other important pests recorded were fruit and shootborer, leaf mite, leaf roller and bark eating caterpillar. Borer complex of litchi was most important as they extensively damaged the developing and matured fruits reducing the yields and marketability. Panicle blight in litchi The disease incidence of panicle blight in different orchards varied from 17.43-28.85% while most of the tree had disease severity (PDI) between 10.0-20.0%. The mean disease incidence of fruit blight on trees in farmers’ orchard in Muzaffarpur, Bihar varied from 8.4-12.4% (mean 9.8%) in cv. ‘Shahi’ and 10.2-16.7% (mean 12.6%) in cv. ‘China’ Leaf spot disease in litchi Two different kinds of leaf spot disease were observed in nursery plants and bearing trees of litchi in orchard. The pathogens were identified as Corynespora litchii Matsush. and Pestalotiopsis versicolor Speg.