 Staggered planting at monthly intervals in 100 m2 plots each month has been recommended for round-the-year availability of tuberose flowers, and the farmers get a benefit : cost ratio of 2.40 : 1. Staggered planting at 1- month intervals in 100 m2 plots makes round- the-year availability of tuberose flowers in Andaman and Nicobar islands artificial insemination using Nicobari fowl as male and quail as female, was found encouraging and its large-scale production was initiated in quail farming under deep litter system. An indigenous heavy-weight goat germplasm Teressa of these islands, found in Teressa, Bambooka, Car Nicobar and Katchal islands, resembles Kambling Kachang of Indonesia and shows triplet kidding and even quadruple kidding occasionally. Culture of Marine Ornamental Fishes (Amphiprion species) A study was carried out under laboratory conditions in Andaman and Nicobar Islands on symbiotic relationship (behavioural) of Amphiprion percula, A. clarkii and A. sandarocinos. Entamaceia quadricoo, Macrodactyla dorensis, Stoichodactyla giganteum, S. haddoni, S. mertensii, Heteraetis aurora, H. cripsa, H. magnifica, H. malu and Crypteodentrum adhaesivum were collected from the wild conditions, and fishes were introduced to each anemones to find out the suitable host. The fish Marine ornamental fish Amphiprion percula fanning the eggs. Its culture has been standardized for the first time in India spawned between 6.00 hr and 9.00 hr and between 12.00 hr and 17.00 hr. Each female spawned 200–500 capsule-shaped eggs and deposited on the sides of the tank. The eggs showed 2.00–3.00 mm length and 0.8–1.5 mm width. In each spawning 100% hatchability was obtained. For the first time in India, culturing of common clown A. percula was standardized. Hatchery Seed Production of Marine Shell Fishes In tiger prawn, 987 individual spawnings could be observed on an average of 1.2 times by each spawner in 15–30 days of treatment of each batch. A total of 120 million tiger prawn nauplii were harvested. Growth and Survivial of Andaman Borne P. monodon nauplii to Stocking Seed Size The survival was 80.6–86.2%, 69.7–80.1%, 52.4–77.7% and 49.7–74.3% during zoea, mysis, early post-larval and late post-larval stages, respectively, of the initial stocking. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS 191 HERBAL PREPARATIONS Herbal preparations, viz. herbal antimicrobial; anti-inflammatory and anti- histaminic formulation (topical/oral); herbal mouthwash: herbal preparation for curing oral submucus fibrosis (OSF)—a pre- cancerous condition in oral cavity; herbal vaginal contraceptive, were developed and are under processing for patent and marketing. Culture of milkfish Chanos chanos The fattening of milkfish Chanos chanos was done in tide-fed brackish water ponds in Andamans for a period of 1 year and 4 months. The average weight at stocking and at harvest was 730 g and 1,207 g respectively. The net production at harvest was 1,030 kg/ha.