 Rice can be cultivated in sunken beds (30 cm deep) in areas with shallow water or high rainfall, and many vegetables are grown in raised beds. Cutting and filling is used to create RSB that are each 1 m wide (1:1 ratio). When RSB land configuration is used instead of farmers’ traditional practice of mono cropping rice, there is a significant improvement in planting intensity, productivity, employment, and revenue for farmers. Under rain- fed situations, rice crops frequently experience soil moisture stress during later growth stages. Due to extreme moisture stress during the winter, farmers are unable to harvest any crops. Benefits of raised bed planting of crops • Irrigation water management has been simplified and made more effective. In comparison to flatbed approaches, it often uses 30% less water and increases crop yields by more than 20%. Compared to planting in a flat bed, FIRB planting saves 20% of the wheat seeds. • Better drainage makes it feasible to produce upland crops more successfully during the wet monsoon. Better positioning, particularly top-dressed application, can boost fertilizer efficiency. • Increased panicle/ear length, better tillering, and bolder grain. • To increase protein content in wheat without causing lodging, farmers can administer N and irrigation water at the grain filling stage. Given that many farmers do not irrigate immediately after heading exactly to minimize lodging, reduced lodging can have a considerable, favourable impact on production. Water may therefore start to inhibit grain filling, resulting in a decreased yield. • Planting beds enables irrigation prior to sowing, which gives the chance to reduce weeds before planting. Bed planted crops can be irrigated right away after seeding if pre-sowing irrigation is likely to delay planting. • Early in the crop cycle, weeds between the beds can be mechanically managed. • Wheat can be planted in a hand- harvested rice field in a single pass. The bed planter reshapes the beds and furrows, plants the crop, and evenly distributes fertilizer along the seed or in between seed rows in the bed’s centre, at a depth of 5 to 10 cm. Crop straws can be inserted into the beds of combine harvested rice fields by employing a shovel-style furrow opener fixed to the front of the bed planter frame. Without the proper equipment, farmers burn fewer of the rice straws before sowing the wheat and only partially contact the layers. Conclusion In any farming system, bed planting is closely tied to good crop and soil management techniques. Crop inputs (water, nutrients, energy, pesticides, etc.) and management practices in the specified agro-ecological zone work well to complement this practice of crop establishment. In systems based on maize, intercropping with micro- irrigation aids in increasing system productivity and profitability.