 Now during next two months (May-June) sowing of different kharif crops like Paddy, Cotton, Bajra, Green gram, Cowpea, Guar, Moth bean, sesame & Groundnut is to be done as per suitability of soil and climatic conditions, therefore, this is the need of the time that proper agro-advisory should be issued by scientists for the farmers so that different agricultural activities as well as different agricultural operations could be carried out by the farmers timely even under pandemic Covid-19 second wave. This will not only help in increasing the income of the farmers but will also help in economic progress of the country. Agro-advisory for different agricultural activities as well as different agricultural operations to be carried out by the farmers during next two months is as follows: 43 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Collection of soil samples for analysis purpose: This is the proper time to collect soil samples for different plots from the farmers field for soil analysis purpose as all rabi crops have already been harvested and fields are without crops. This will help in scientific nutrient management planning for different crops to be sown in forthcoming kharif season, NUE could be increased, helps in proper soil health. Using recommended dose of fertilizers as per soil testing report in balanced ratio the production as well as economic profit could be increased. Gypsum application and summer deep ploughing Apply gypsum in the fields as per soil testing report to maintain the soil pH at optimum level, this will help in increased availability of different plant nutrients especially Ca & S, as gypsum is the cheapest source of these two secondary nutrients for plants. This increased availability of all plant nutrients will help in higher production and quality improvement in kharif crops especially in oilseed & Pulses. Follow summer deep ploughing after application of Gypsum in the field, this will help in mixing of gypsum in the soil, plough down of crop residues, weeds, and unwanted plants in the soil. In Rajasthan state there is huge variation in day and night temperature, which helps in improving physical, chemical, and biological properties of the soil and ultimately will improve soil fertility and finally crop productivity. Summer deep ploughing helps in control of harmful insects, their eggs, larvae, and pupae as well as soil borne disease pathogens up to a certain extent. Sowing of green manure crop Dhaincha Dhaincha green manuring is a low-cost practice to improve the soil fertility in a short period of time. Due to limited availability of different organic manures, day by day farmers using excessive dose of chemical fertilizers which creates soil sickness, imbalanced ratio of primary fertilizers (N-P-K) and ultimately reduced soil fertility. By looking these 44 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS situations, Dhaincha green manuring is the best option to sustain the soil fertility with low cost.