 National initiatives on Food Security and Nutrition Mission of Government of India would serve to enhance awareness among people, promote the consumption of millets, necessitating expansion of potential niche areas and enhancing productivity of smart food paving way for sustainable nutritional security to attain Swasth Bharat Mission. *Corresponding author e-mail: drinderdev@gmail.com Physical chemistry of soil and soil mineralogy are the two pillars which form the basic foundation of soil science. Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility. To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 11 December 2023 Plant stand of foxtail millet Source: RPCAU, Pusa, Bihar Scientific crop production techniques for foxtail millet in Bihar Bharati Upadhaya1*, Ravindra Kumar Tiwari1 and Kaushal Kishor2 1Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Birauli, Samastipur, Bihar 848 125 2PGCA, Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Bihar 848 125 Foxtail millet (Setaria italic L.) is an annual cereal that is mainly cultivated as a rainfed crop in India.