 Key words: pearlmillet, mothbean, cluster bean, hairy caterpillar, mixed cropping, trench To control rodents in the crop field, a mixture is prepared by boiling maize (Zea mays) and glyceria (Glyceria grandis) leaves. After boiling, the maize seeds are kept for sun-drying for 3 days. Spreading of these maize seeds in the rat hole is in practice to control the rodent menace. Rats eat the seeds, which causes their death. Keywords: rodent control, maize and glyceria leaves This ITK is practised by Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel in Sabarkantha district of Gujarat. In this practice 3 kg black veldi (Croton bonplandianum) leaves are boiled in 20 litres water for 2 to 3 hr till the volume remains 5 litres, and then it is sieved properly. About 100-150 ml solution is diluted in 15 litres water and is sprayed. The spray is repeated after 8-10 days. This solution is effectively used to spray on cotton, castor, mustard and also vegetable crops for controlling the infestations of aphids, jassids and whiteflies. Keywords: aphids, jassids and whiteflies, black veldi Ms C. Kanagambal W/o Shri Chandrasekaran, Nettavelampatty, Kottaipalayam (via taluk Thuraiyur), Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 003 Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel, Gramsavek Modasa, 68 Jeevan jyot Society, Meghraj Road, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2878 Use of natural predators for controlling sucking insects in cotton, mustard, castor and vegetables 2879 Protection of crops by indigenous herbal formulations Ladybird beetle is the natural predator of sucking insects, viz. aphids, jassids and whiteflies. It normally takes shelter on Calotropis sp. The sucking insects are controlled by growing aak or madar, {Calotropis gigantea L.) around the field and by spreading its leaves in the field. Ladybird beetle feeds the sucking insects. This practice is effectively used for controlling sucking insects in cotton, castor, mustard and some vegetable crops. This ITK is practised by Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel of Sabarkantha in Gujarat. Keywords: natural predator, ladybird beetle, sucking pests, Calotropis gigantea The following formulations are followed by Shri Rajnikant Bhai Patel in Sabarkantha district of Gujarat. 1. Control of wilt, root rot and termite damage: About 500 g latex of thuar (Euphorbia nerifolia L.) leaves is sprayed on castor, wheat, pomegranate and legumes for controlling wilt, root rot and termite damage. Keywords: thuar {Euphorbia nerifolia L.), wilt, root rot, termite damage 2. Pest and disease management in cotton: About 400 g juice extract of apical leaves of kuri (Lantana camara L.) is sprayed on cotton to control whitefly and other sucking pests. Wilt incidence in cotton is also minimized by using this juice extract, as whitefly acts as a vector for causing wilt. Keywords: kuri (Lantana camara L.