 The climate is semi-arid, hot and sub- humid, suitable to occurrence of hemorrhagic septicemia in large ruminants. Animal husbandry is a supporting business to native farmers along with agricultural farming, by keeping 3-6 buffaloes. They were fully aware of this disease in large animals, its clinical symptoms, efforts and conventional therapy. The farmers were having education of metric to high school level. Experimenters Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr. V.S. Vihan, Head, Dr. Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr. Rajneesh Rana, Senior Scientist, Division of Animal Health, Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Makhdoom, Farah 281 122, Mathura (U.P.). Results and discussion The study conducted at CIRG, Makhdoom revealed that from these 14 cases of buffaloes treated with enrofloxacin, avil and paracetamol with kala jeera paste applied on throat shown 85.71% recovery, whereas those treated with veterinary drug alone gave 50% recovery. This clinical study clearly indicated that kala jeera extract paste when applied on throat along with veterinary drugs in clinical cases of HS in buffalos helped speedy and higher percentage of recovery. Conclusion The in-vitro antibiogram study and in vivo clinical studies in field, showed that application of paste of kala jeera (Veronina anthelmintica) on swollen throat area in Haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS) disease in buffaloes acted as adjunct therapy along with conventionally antibacterial treatment. It helped in speedy recovery from the disease. The ITK, which has been claimed by the discloser, proved scientifically good in clinical management of HS in buffaloes. 7.17 Technique of curing bone fracture in animals Description of the ITK Harjore is a perennial climber, used in the treatment of bone fracture in animals as well as in human being. This practice is being used by the villagers of Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand for the last many years. Paste is prepared by crushing the harjore plant and it is applied on the fracture part which is then tied along with sticks. At every 3 days interval it is replaced by fresh harjore paste and this process is continued 2 to 3 times. Name and address of the discloser Ms Sushmita Khalkho, C/o Dr. Niva Bara, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand). Geographical indicators Harjore, a climber having fleshy stone and quadrangular stem is found throughout the hotter parts of India and Sri Lanka. Experimenters Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. B.K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology; Dr. K.K. Singh, Department of Pathology and Dr. Himanshu, Assistant Professor and Dr. Vinod Kumar, Teaching Assistant, Department of Surgery, College of Veterinary Sciences, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006. Ointment of kala jeera extract composition of ointment 39 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Ch.