 After its first introduction to Spain’s Canary Islands in 1565, potato quickly spread to the whole of European continent within a span of 40 years and reached England by 1597. Though potato was not readily accepted as a food by common Europeans, it became a favourite food of the sailors who took potato tubers for consumption on ocean voyages specifically to avoid scurvy since the tubers were a rich souce of vitamin C. That was the time when Europe’s “Age of Exploration” had begun and many sea voyages were undertaken by Portugal, Spain, and England. Potato was carried as a preferred food in many of those journeys. Most likely, potato reached the Indian southern coast as food aboard Portuguese ship during later part of 16th century. The first written mention of potato in India occurs in Edward Terry’s account of a lavish banquet hosted by Abdul Hassan Asaf Khan (elder brother of Nur Jahan and father of Mumtaz Mahal) who was the Governor of Punjab under the Mughal Emperor Jehangir, in honour of the British Ambassador Sir Thomas Roe in 1615 at Ajmer. In the beginning, the orthodox Brahmins objected to its use because it was not mentioned in the Hindu Puranas as an article of food. The prejudice, however, vanished gradually and it was accepted as a primary vegetable supplement largely because of its mild flavour. Potato cultivation in the country during next 300 years remained, at the best, restricted and the entire Indian Potato research in India – achievements and the road ahead India will be the most populous country in the world by 2050 with about 1.67 billion population. Diversification and utilization of horticultural crops would be the most important strategy to ensure food and nutritional security of the burgeoning population. This highlights the importance of horticultural crops in Indian agriculture and future thrust on research and development of horticultural crops. Potato, in particular, has immense potential to achieve sustainable development goal. Potato tubers Indian Horticulture 4 subcontinent contributed less than 1% of world’s potato area and production by 1941. This was primarily due to non-availability of locally adapted varieties and technologies for growing potato under sub-tropical climatic condition. To take care of those problems, an organized research programme on potato was initiated in April 1935 with the opening of three breeding and seed production stations at Shimla, Kufri and Bhowali (Kumaon hills), under the Indian (Imperial) Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. In 1945, a scheme for the establishment of Central Potato Research Institute was drawn up under the guidance of the then Agriculture Advisor to the Government of India, Sir Herbert Stewart and Sir Pheroz M. Kharegat, Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture. Dr B. P. Pal, Dr S. Ramanujam, Dr. Pushkarnath, and Dr R. S. Vasudeva participated in the formulation of the scheme and in establishment of the institute. Dr S.