 Project Management and Learning 8.0 51 4. Front-end Fee 0.2 13 Total 165.0 1,063 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 120 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT national level trainings for faculty up-gradation, master and Ph.D. sandwich programs, alumni linkages, industry seminars and professional workshops, e-enabled learning activities, etc. It is worth mentioning here that, in last two years 7 AUs under the IG have attained ICAR accreditation due to NAHEP support and interventions. Due to ongoing Covid pandemic, PRT reviews of few additional AUs are pending with ICAR-Agricultural Education Division and shall be completed at the earliest in current FY. Component 2 aims to support ICAR to carry out institutional reforms within ICAR and enhance effectiveness in coordinating, guiding and managing agricultural higher education in the country. Till date, activities undertaken entail strengthening of key digital infrastructures of ICAR-AU system such as ICAR-DC, establishment of KRISHI Megh—a disaster recovery centre (cloud infrastructure), launch of AGRI- DIKSHA—an Agri Web Education Channel, implementation of Academic Management System in 53 AUs, development of e-learning portal, establishment of 5 CDC and 1 FDC, organization of external advisory panel committee meeting. The major activities and achievements under Monitoring and Learning component include regular monitoring of sub- projects through Project Monitoring and Tracking System (PMTS), capacity building activities, documentation of learnings and achievements, etc. In addition to these activities, central M&E team has taken other important initiatives as well such as assessment of the measurable intermediate outcomes through Mid-line survey, Development and implementation of AU Implementation Performance Scoreboard (AUIPS), Satisfaction mapping of direct project beneficiaries, organizing M&E Clinics, etc. In order to establish a fair and transparent system, while effectively addressing the grievances of project stakeholders, a 3 tier Grievance Redressal Mechanism has also been established at PIU NAHEP and has been made fully operational. In addition, PIU has also taken various initiatives to enhance the learning outcomes such as Waste to Wealth and linking entrepreneurship, Clean and Green Awards, KRITAGYA Ag. Tech. Hackathon, Promoting Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES), Strategic study Component of NAHEP Key objectives and focus Awarded institutions 1. Support to AUs a. Institutional Development plans (IDP) Quality enhancement, thrust on business entrepreneurship and employability, internal revenue generation; focus on UG students 22 b. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Scientific entrepreneurship, employability and Science and Technology (CAAST) research effectiveness; focus on PG students 16 c. Innovation Grants (IG) Attain accreditation with revised norms and standards of ICAR 24 2.