 A volatile biomarker(s) was identified for the screening of scab resistant apple germplasm at early stage non-destructively. Based on the biomarker(s) an e-nose sensor prototype for the early non-destructive screening of scab resistance germplasm was developed. Identification and validation of newer approaches for the management of whitefly: To manage the pest whitefly, Bemisia tabaci, RNAi silencing mediated control was adopted. Twenty-four genes were selected for dsRNA mediated gene silencing for adult mortality, of which 4 genes (Chitin synthase, vATPAseE, Sucrase and ECR) with mortality of more than 85% were carried forward for the preparation of dsRNA nano formulation. Three different charge groups of nanoparticles (NPs) (chitosan, gelatin and silica gel) were used as a delivery system of dsRNA molecules for RNAi through oral delivery. The NPs-hydrogel was prepared and dsRNA with different ratios of NPs hydrogel was loaded in the nano-hydrogel and mortality of the nano formulation was assessed through parafilm feeding. The results showed BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH Apple plant E-nose sensor for nondestructive scab prediction in apple VOC containing syringe injected in Sensor After fungal VOC detection, Sensor shows Scab disease on display. With no fungal VOC, Sensor shows Normal leaf on display. Leaves used for VOC collection ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 155 that the whitefly mortality rates were significantly increased with increasing concentrations at varied time points, whereas a maximum mortality rate of ≥80% was obtained around 70 at 72 h. Oral administration of hydrogel/dsRNA mixture reduced mRNA expression levels when compared to untreated control, and two dsRNA nano formulation Chitin synthase (ICAR- NBAIR) and ECR (ICAR-IIHR) were further selected for validation and field assessment at other co-operative centers of IARI, New Delhi and PAU, Ludhiana. A novel attractant trap (a sticky trap with a lure) developed by ICAR-IARI showed improved attraction efficiency of 102.88, 123.17 and 66.16% over control, respectively in mint, brinjal and cotton crops. Evaluation of the VOCs for repellence and oviposition deterrence showed 74.6 and 69.1% repellence in cage and net-house (semi-field) bioassays, respectively. These compounds were also found to be effective as ovipositional deterrents showing oviposition reduction of 67.2 and 64.4% and reduction in hatching to the tune of 76.6 and 74.1%, respectively. Hyperspectral reflectance and multi-nutrient extractant based rapid assessment of soil properties for sustainable soil health in India: Optimal sampling design was developed to collect samples representing different agro-ecological sub regions (AESRs) of India by using conditioned Latin hypercube sampling (cLHS) approach. The sampling locations of 3,410 within India representing different AESRs, soil types, landforms, terrain features, etc. were indentified. Results from descriptive analysis revealed a wide variation in soil properties, i.e.