 The amount of seepage water coming to pond was initially high, and thereafter receded. Rice and wheat yields were 4.02 and 4.26 tonnes/ha, respectively, with B: C ratio of 2:1. Vegetable system was more profitable than rice-wheat and tomato- mustard systems. The B: C ratio for fodder system was highest among all. Availability of fodder throughout the year except in extreme winter and summer enhanced average milk productivity by 1.5 to 2.0 litres. The highest income (` 180,000) was generated by fish production with a B: C ratio of 5:1. Significant improvement in the B: C ratio (1.33) indicated potential of land-modification technology in integration with different cropping systems in augmenting farmers’ income and nutritional security. Forage grass strips for resource conservation: Grasses — para grass, guinea grass and napier grass— were tested for their efficacy in preventing soil and Salinity and sodicity mapping in 3D A geophysical survey technology (DUALEM-21) under the Australia-India Council Collaborative Project was tested at two sites in Haryana (Nain in Panipat district and Mokhra Kheri in Rohtak district) and one in Uttar Pradesh (Shivari in Lucknow district) to map salinity and sodicity in 3D. Manual surveys with DUALEM-21 and Novatel GPS were carried out in January 2016 for EM (electromagnetic) data recording where crops (mustard/ wheat) were on the field. The same instruments mounted on a cart pulled by car were used in Mokhra Kheri field. After calibration, 3D salinity images with seven profile layers were generated. DUALEM technology makes possible digital salinity mapping of canal commands both spatially and vertically for developing salinity management improved strategies. High-value grass strips in crop fields Success story Dug-well-based drip-fertigation for vegetable farming In Odisha, on-farm drip fertigation (1000% RDF) experiments yielded 2.4 tonnes/ha, 5.9 tonnes/ha and 4.6 tonnes/ha more of chilli, potato and ladies’ finger, respectively, than drip irrigation and soil application of fertilizers (100% RDF). Fertilizer-use efficiency was found to be increased by 42-67% for different crops under different drip-fertigation treatments than soil application. This observation led to the establishment of 14 dug- well drip-fertigation units in Cuttack and Dhenkanal districts of Odisha, and farmers’ income enhanced from mere ` 10,000/ha to ` 2.5 lakh/ha from light-textured lateritic soil fields. Due to enhanced water and nutrient use efficiency, this technology has also helped develop climate- resilient agriculture. SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 15 nutrients losses from runoff water, coming from crop fields and waterways. Grass strips were planted at the downstream end of cotton field. Napier grass strip of 2m width was most effective, reducing runoff, soil and nutrient losses up to 30%, 65%, 70%, respectively, and in increasing crop yield up to 18%.