 Using Boro rice for cropping intensification  Compared to spring rice, Boro rice matures before start of monsoon and gives ample time for harvesting and planting for succeeding crops.  Because of off-season production, Boro rice has a good market price and returns.  There exists lot of potential to improve yield of Boro rice compared to winter crops in low-lying areas.  Land having high water levels, waterlogging and lowland, which remains barren in winter can be exploited for Boro rice cultivation.  There is a normalized effect of natural disasters like floods during primary growing season in flood-prone areas by Boro rice. Boro rice panicles Boro rice at harvesting stage Indian Farming 28 February 2023 Varieties The variety preferred for Boro rice is the one which has attributes of semi-dwarf to semi-tall plant type with a stout culm and moderate tillering capacity (8–12 tillers/hill), early maturity, medium-slender grain type, tolerance to main insect- pests and diseases, and high grain production potential (8–10 t/ha). Such traits allow rice varieties to take the advantage of ample sunshine and largely risk-free growing environment in Boro season (Table 1). Obstacles to growing Boro rice Mortality of seedling: Seedling mortality takes place due to prolonged cold period throughout nursery stage. Days to panicle initiation and maturation period likewise lengthen due to low temperature. This raises cost of additional irrigation and maintenance. Cold spell limits the root growth, which delays seedlings’ proper establishment. Farmers must use more seedlings/hill and perform extensive transplanting to compensate. Rain before monsoon: Early pre-monsoon rain may have an impact on germination if seed is not dormant. Insect pest and disease: Plant hoppers, leaf folder, grasshopper, leaf hopper, yellow stem borer and gundhi bug are some of the major pests of Boro rice. Major plant diseases are blast and sheath blight, which appear at ripening and adversely affect Boro rice. Irregular weather: Poor germination, slow and stunted seedling growth, leaf spots, slow and delayed tillering, and non- synchronous and delayed flowering are effects of low temperature at seedling stage. Sterility of flowers may be brought by dense fog, increased temperature fluctuation, or high daytime temperatures during flowering. Approaches for increasing production Through collection, analysis, selection, and testing of germplasm, superior varieties may be identified. Prioritization of challenges, difficulties faced by farmers and conducting agro-ecosystem analysis using participatory rural appraisal, system diagnostics, remote sensing, and geographic information systems may be helpful in increasing production. Crop management package is required which contains information on nursery management, ideal planting times, plant populations, planting geometry, fertilizers, irrigation need, weed control and integrated pest management.