 Memecylon edule Roxb Commonly known as Ironwood tree, the plant is a member of the Melastomataceae family. This is a large shrub or small tree growing to a height of 4-5 m. This is an evergreen plant which is very attractive with smooth, glossy leaves. The plant flowers during February-March and the entire branches are laden with blue flowers. The flowers last for only 4-5 days after blooming. A lot of bees visit the plant during flowering. Fruits are yellowish initially which turn bluish-black on ripening. Fruits are relished by birds. The plant is suitable as a specimen shrub for open areas. The plant is seed propagated. Syzigium caryophyllatum (L.) Alston Commonly known as South Indian Plum. This is an endangered plant belonging to the family Myrtaceae, distributed in the Western Ghats and Sri Lanka. The plant is a large shrub or small tree that grows to 3-6 m, leaves are thick, leathery, glabrous, and obovate with blunt tips. Flowering season from March-April; small creamy-whitish flowers born in corymb-like cymes at the tip of branches. Small (1cm across) globose berries turn purplish black when ripe. Fruits mature during June-July. Flowers attract bees and butterflies. The plant can be utilized as an attractive specimen shrub in gardens, and also for butterfly gardens. The plant is propagated by seeds. Pavetta indica var. indica L. Commonly known as Indian Pavetta, this is a plant belonging to the Rubiaceae family. This is distributed in India and Sri Lanka. The plant is a large shrub or small tree growing up to 2-4 m; naturally seen as an under shrub. Leaves are glabrescent, inflorescence in terminal corymbs, 50-200 per cyme. Flowers are white coloured and very fragrant and attract butterflies and bees. Flowering is seen from April-May. Fruits which are globose berries, nearly 1 cm across turn black when mature. The plant is suitable for partial shade as a specimen shrub, for moon gardens and also for butterfly gardens. The plant is propagated by seeds and cuttings. Capparis baducca L. Commonly known as Rheed’s caper. The plant is a member of the Capparaceae family. It is a spiny shrub growing to 2-4 m height. The plant is endemic to the Western Ghats. Flowering season starts in February- March. Flowers are nearly 8 cm across and pale blue which on fading changes to white with yellow blotches at the base of the upper pair of petals. Stingless bees are attracted towards the flowers. The plant is suitable as a specimen shrub under partial shade. The plant is propagated by cuttings. Tabernaemontana alternifolia L. Commonly known as ‘Nag Kuda’. The plant belongs to the family Apocynaceae. It is a small tree or large shrub growing to a height of 2-5 m. The plant is endemic to Southern Western Ghats. White flowers, not very conspicuous are born in corymb-like cymes during March -April and plants are very attractive for their orange, boat- shaped fruits. The plant is suitable as a specimen shrub in open/partial shade.