 The fisheries sector has been integrated with agriculture, industry and other economic allied activities, thus providing an opportunity to adopt a self-reliant village model for the economic and social upliftment of the society. Such a model has been able to provide protection and elevate the position of the fisherman communities, which otherwise is loosely organized and represent marginalized and backward classes of the society (Bavinck and Vivekanandan 2017). Aquaculture is considered as an economic activity, which could aid in poverty eradication and livelihood improvement among the rural population (Kumaran et al. 2020). Considering the availability of widely distributed water resources, both natural and also man-made, aquaculture has been playing a major role in fulfilling Gandhi’s dreams. The implementation of various social welfare programmes by the central and state governments over the years aiming for a ‘Blue Revolution’ has succeeded to bring remarkable changes in this direction. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has initiated several programmes to develop the village economy, employ the rural youth and provide a dignified living with self-sustenance through Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) and Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) to safeguard the food security of rural India. In Gandhiji’s opinion, any development scheme should be centered on the man and the man has the responsibility to make judicious use of natural resources and to maintain the ecological balance. While ‘Sarvodaya’, the welfare of all, was the basis of his thinking, his view on community-centered approach towards sustainability and agricultural development emphasized on ‘betterment of human life’ by avoiding all sorts of exploitations and establishment of human dignity. He believed in the development but opposed the ruthless drive for economic growth, severe competition, unbridled consumerism and concentration of wealth and power. 2. ICAR’s Activities in Realizing Gandhian Principles The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the apex research organization of the country spearheading the research, education and extension fronts to enhance the productivity and diversify the Indian agriculture and allied sectors. During the last 90 years of the journey, ICAR as an agrarian organization has heavily relied on the Gandhian principle of rural development and has recognized the farmers as the centre of development. The whole world, and India in particular, have been experiencing several transformative changes with regard to population Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 50 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR growth, changes in lifestyles, urbanization and accelerated climate change, which are creating new challenges. Unlike the focus in past to supply basic needs such as adequate food, the challenges have now shifted to provide adequate nutrients to promote health.