 Observations were taken on (i) percentage of shoot infestation, (ii) percentage of fruit infestation, (iii) fruit weight, (iv) number of fruits/plant, (v) Yield of fruits/plant, (vi) fruit taste, (vii) fruit yield/ha, and (viii) Marketable fruit yield Data given in Table 1 show that ITK method (use of kochila mixed cowdung compost) was superior to other two methods. Application of kochila mixed cowdung compost resulted in better plant stand with lesser pest incidence, which helped realize higher yield of brinjal. Experiment Results of the experiment conducted at Badakodanda village revealed that with use of kochila-enriched cowdung, the incidence of shoot and fruit borer was much lower (4.9_6.0%) as compared to that of untreated plot (17.71 and 18.48%). Use of pesticides also reduced the pest incidence which is similar to the application of kochila-mixed cowdung. Effect of kochila compost was also at par with the use of pesticides in terms of fruit weight and number of fruit yield per plant. Yield of fruits per plant, total fruit yield and marketable fruit yield (Table 2). CONCLUSION Use of kochila mixed cowdung compost reduces the incidence of fruit and shoot borer in brinjal up to considerably, which also matches with the claim of the discloser.  HORTICULTURE CROPS Code : 701 Title of the ITK : Protection of cabbage from pests Description of the ITK : Cabbage is one of the important cash crops of Shimla district. In the cabbage plants a special type of pest spoils the inner portion of cabbage, the cabbage remains loose, and ultimately plants fall down. Ash and cow urine are used to protect the cabbage plant from insect pests. This ITK is useful to check insect pests and also to enhance cabbage productivity. Cow urine may have certain chemical, which may have insecticidal properties. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Devkant Prakash, Village Bhagheog, Tehsil and P/O Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 Location of use of the ITK : This ITK is prevalent in Theog area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. This area forms a part of high hills temperate wet Himalayan region and lies between the longitudes 77째 - 0" and 78째 - 19" east and latitudes 30째 - 45" and 31째 - 44". This zone is physio-graphically a mountainous trait with terraces. Mainly dry farming is practised and soil is shallow, silt to loam in texture and acidic in nature. This zone at present contribute to about 96% of the total temperate fruit production. Apple is the most pre-dominant fruit grown in the zone. Experimenters : Dr L.R. Verma, Department of Bio-Sciences, and Shri Sanjeev Noel, Scientific Assistant, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla 171 005, Himachal Pradesh, and Shri Devkant Prakash, village- Bhagheog, Tehsil and P. O. Theog, Shimla- 171 201 (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY PRA and field study The PRA exercise was carried out in Theog area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. More than 50 farmers belonging to different villages, viz.