 Sowing should be done by last week of August or first/ second week of September. Sow the seeds thinly in U-shaped furrows spaced at 2.5 cm and at a depth of 1-2 cm (4 times the diameter of the seed). Cover the seeds immediately with a thin layer of sand mixed with well dried and sieved farmyard manure. Irrigate the sown beds using water cane fitted with a fine hose. Seedlings are ready for transplanting 21-30 days after sowing. Pit should be prepared and FYM should be applied 15 days ahead of transplanting. Liming should be done earlier to transplanting to raise the soil pH to optimum level. Pit should be treated with insecticide before transplanting of plants. Pit should be prepared at a spacing of 75 x 30 cm (Row to row x Plant to plant). Rabi vegetable crops (Tomato, Cabbage, Broccoli, Onion) Farmers are advised to prepare Nursery bed for Rabi Crops starting from the month end of August. Land preparation for direct sowing of Rabi crops is to be started by the month of September. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 282 Seed treatment of Rabi crops to be done with Carbendazim (0.1%) 2g/kg seed and Trichoderma spp. 4-6g/kg seed. Farmers are advised to adopt sowing of Leguminous crops as intercrop to increase the soil nutrient where the nutrient level of the soil are low. Management of Aphids in Mustard Set up yellow sticky trap to monitor aphid population. Destroy the affected parts along with aphids. Spray Dimethoate @2.5ml/ litre of water. Management of insect Pests in Brinjal Collection and destruction of infected leaves along with the insects reduces pest incidence. Spraying the crop with Malathion 2ml/litre of water or Carbaryl (2-4g/litre of water) effectively controls the pest. Powdery Mildew in vegetables Combine 1 tablespoon, baking soda and one half teaspoon of liquid, non-detergent soap with one gallon of water and spray the mixture literally on the plants. Mouthwash can also be used. Calendar of Operation for Rejuvenation of Khasi Mandarin November: Application of Copper Oxychloride @ 0.2% to manage pre-harvest fruit drop. Harvesting of fruits in right time to avoid fruit fly attack and fruit rot Spraying of Malathion @ 2mL/ litre over fruit to prevent fruit fly egg laying Apply 650g Urea + 1220g SSP + 450g MOP/ tree Clean cultivation Mulching of basin ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 283 December-January Basin cleaning and making of half-moon terraces for placement of manure and fertilizers as well as to reduce nutrient loss. Pruning of water sprout, diseases and dead twigs and pasting of cut end with Bordeaux paste Scarification of gum oozing wounds and dressing with 10% Bordeaux paste Cleaning of lichens and mosses Mulching of tree basin February Application of FYM @ 30 kg/ plant and lime @ 1kg/ plant in the basin To kill the trunk borer grubs, clean the bored holes of the infested trunk with iron wire and insert a cotton swab soaked in petrol/ Dichlorvos or inject 5 mL of Dichlorvos @ 0.2% (2mL/L) and plug with mud.