 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 13 Control of diarrhoea with seeds of tamarind Powder of the seed of tamarind (Tamarindus indica) is used cattle of diarrhoea in cattle. A fine powder of 500 g of tamarind seeds is mixed with half the quantity of water and fed to the cattle. The mixture is administered for five or six days. This practice has been followed for generations with very good results (Kheda, Gujarat). Vankar (1998) 14 Control of diarrhoea with black soyabean Black soybean is grinded and mixed with water. It is given to the animals suffering from diarrhoea for two to three days. The mixture of black soyabean flour and ragi flour in water is also fed to the animal (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 15 Cure for diarrhoea with salt Adminstering handful salt in 4 litres of water or handful of salt mixed in cattle feed restores electrolyte imbalance and stops diarrhoea (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 16 Cutting of edge of tail to control diarrhoea A very strange practice has been noticed to control diarrhoea. The lower edge of the animal’s tail is cut by a sharp knife and the out portion is immersed in previously boiled edible oil (This method is not an effective treatment for Diarrhoea moreover, cruelty towards animals: TCL). The role of branding and acupuncture is being investigated recently. All aspects of this practice including cruelty vis-a-vis the death hazard through diarrhoea will be investigated carefully (Canhela , Gujarat). Bavabhai (1992a) 17 Control of diarrhoea with methi Fifty grams of fenugreek seed (Trigonella foenum- graecum) are soaked overnight and pounded with one coconut flower bunch (Thennampalai) and ten unripened coconut are fed to the cattle. After a little while regular feed may be given. This treatment generally cures diarrhoea with one dose. If it does not, then the dosage may be repeated on the second day (Nagapattinam, Tamil Nadu). Somu (1998) 18 Herbal treatment of dysentery and diarrhoea Feeding of Leucas lanata (Safeda) and bamboo leaves cures diarrhoea. Also feeding 200 g of Cissampelos pareira (Batauva) in maize husk cures diarrhoea and dysentery (Mid hills region of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 187 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 19 Cure for dysentery in cattle For treating dysentery a red hot iron is brought near the nose of the animals because it probably stimulates the defense mechanism that is involuntary contraction of gastrointestinal musculature which in turn may relieve constipation which is known to be the major cause of dysentery (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 20 Treatment for dysentry in cattle Burning Jawanlari grass along with black cloth and mixing the ash with oil is fed to cows afflicted by dysentry. This grass is dried and stored for winter months (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh).