45 White flowered, UP NWPZ: North-Western Plain Zone; CZ: Central Zone; SZ: South Zone Dry root rot (A) and Wilt (B) disease in the field 14 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY root it out. It should be buried after that,” was the key message given by the experts. Farmers were advised to adopt an integrated approach, involving mechanical, cultural, chemical, biological and social measures towards its eradication. These events were given wide coverage by print and electronic media. 7.2 Exposure visits of Farmers 1. The Government of India launched ‘Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA)’ scheme to support for extension reforms. In order to percolate the benefits of ATMA Scheme down to the farmers for adoption of good agricultural practices, exposure visits of farmers are arranged to agricultural universities and research institutions. A group of 15 farmers from Bhopal visited Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi under the programme “Rajya Ke Bahar Krishak Bhraman” sponsored by ATMA on 26th November 2016. The group was accompanied by Dr. S. K. Rathore, Deputy Project Director and Sri Amar Dixit, Block Technology Manager. The farmers were appraised about various aspects of crop and vegetable production including advanced agricultural technologies and practices being followed at university agricultural farm. 7. Extension Activities 7.1 Parthenium Awareness Week organized Parthenium hysterophoru, locally called gajar ghas or congress grass, is an alien weed which sneaked into India along with wheat imported from USA in the early 1950s. It was first seen in 1955-56 at Pune in Maharashtra, and since then it has spread alarmingly and invaded about 35 million ha of land in the country. It has assumed serious proportions in the cropped and non-cropped lands, city dwellings, rail road sides and also in institutional areas. This obnoxious weed has been causing enormous losses in agricultural productivity, human and animal health and biodiversity. In view of the seriousness as well as the magnitude of the threat posed by this weed, the University organized a mass awareness programme by observing ‘XI Parthenium Awareness Week from 16-22 August, 2016 to educate the farmers and general public about the ill effect of Parthenium and ways to manage it. A number of events like essay writing, debate and poster presentation were organized during the week. A scientist- farmers interface was organized in the adopted village Kanchanpura of Babina block on August 22, 2016 to create awareness among farmers and educating them about the necessary measures to eradicate or prevent the spread of Parthenium. “Hand pulling is best solution to Educating farmers and general public about the ill effect of Parthenium... 15 Annual Report 2016-17 2.