 • Artificial Insemination in Pigs • Continuous monitoring, recording of pig diseases and development of disease management protocol • Technology development for improved post-harvest handling, processing and value addition of pig products • Institute-stakeholder linkages and skill development. 3. Salient achievements • Developed critical scientific interventions for augmenting pig production, pork processing and its transfer for livelihood support and nutritional security in the country. • Registered 10 indigenous pig germplasm and developed 9 crossbred pig verities • Conducted more than 10000 artificial inseminations in the field and produced over 40000 piglets through AI. • Tested more than 9000 biological samples to extend continuous support in monitoring and surveillance of pig diseases and developed 5 diagnostic kits. 139 Animal Sciences 139 • Developed 11 technologies, signed 15 technology transfer agreements, incubated 19 entrepreneurs and established 6 startups. • Conducted over 500 training programmes and trained over 15000 beneficiaries. • Granted 3 patents, 1 trademark and 14 copyrights. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/services available for stakeholders • Improved germplasm for foundation stock. • Liquid semen for Artificial Insemination. • In-house capacity building programmes. • Consultancy and contract research services • Technologies for processing value added pork products and state of the art pork processing plant. • Standardized feed formulations and feed production unit • Well-equipped quality control laboratory. • Agri-Business Incubation Centre. 140 ICAR Institutes Profile 140 ICAR-Central Avian Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Central Avian Research Institute, Pilibhit Road, Izatnagar-243122 ii. Name of the Director: Dr A.K. Tiwari iii. Email address / Phone No.: director.cari@icar.gov.in / +91-581-2303223 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and applied research on productivity enhancement for sustainable production in diverse avian species including domestic fowl. a) Enhancing productivity and climate resilience of diversified poultry species b) Developing self-sustainable climate smart production systems along with effective management of farm waste and by-products for enhanced productivity and profitability of poultry c) Improved food safety and product quality to ensure effective production and marketing risk management in poultry value chain • Human resource development and capacity building. 3. Salient achievements • Minimizing the dependency of Indian poultry sector on imported poultry stock, institute has made significant strides by developing and propagating improved germplasm of diversified poultry, viz.,Japanese quails, turkey, Guinea fowl, ducks and desi fowls including broiler and layer chickens. • Introduced Japanese quails as well as Guinea fowlsin India.