 The groundwater level information from the India Water Resources Information System (WRIS) website (https://indiawris.gov.in/wris/ #/GWProspects) can be very useful in analyzing the relationship. It provided data on the precise location where the GW stations were located in the vicinity of power plants. 3.4. Land suitability map (LSM) The following parameters were considered as inputs for the preparation of LSM of India, after having discussion with experts from Solar energy sectors: (a) Agricultural Crop-land, (b) PV output potential, (c) Distance from Power Grid, (d) Land Surface Temperature (LST) and (e) Water availability index. The description of each parameter is mentioned in Supplementary Table S1. Vegetation cover and slope more than 11◦were masked out, as these areas are considered inappropriate for sustainable solar power development. ESA H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 7 World Cover map was used to get vegetation cover class, while slope data was generated using SRTM DEM. The parameters’ input values were assigned between 0 and 10 as shown in Supplementary Table S2. Further, criteria weightage derived from the AHP model for each parameter was applied and processed to generate LSM. Speckles and noises were reduced using the Earth Engine neigh­ borhood filtering kernel. Later, the result was divided into 7 layers as can be seen in the final product. 4. Results 4.1. Distribution of solar power plants India has witnessed the establishment of a multitude of solar plants of varying sizes across the country. The Solar Panel Index (SPI), developed within the scope of this study, offers a robust method for identifying the locations and area coverage of these solar plants via satellite data, as illustrated in Fig. 4. High SPI values distinctly highlight solar farms at four different locations within India. The Bhadla Solar Park (Fig. 4b) in Rajasthan state, primarily an arid region, stands as the world’s largest solar park with an installed capacity of 2245 MW [67]. Another notable solar park is the Kamuthi Solar Park (Fig. 4a), situated in the far south of India, in Tamil Nadu state. Other significant solar parks include the Pavagadh Solar Park and the Kurnool Ultra Mega Solar Park, both of which are encircled by agricultural lands. Map in Fig. 5 shows the locations of solar farms in India in 2020 developed based on the SPI. This innovative method proves highly beneficial in distinguishing solar plants from the surrounding landscapes, even under varying environmental conditions. Solar farms are distributed across the country, with a high concentration of plants found in the states of Haryana, Maharashtra, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. Interestingly, despite their high solar power potential as per India’s national power portal, no major solar farms were found in the northern regions of Jammu, Kashmir, and Ladakh [68]. 4.2. Changes in agricultural land cover Fig.