 Keywords: shoulder swelling, sayor branches, mustard oil and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3195 Treatment of shoulder swelling in animals with geru 3196 Cure of yoke gall in animals by using paste of khondi and custard apple For the treatment of shoulder swelling in animals, farmers of village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK. A paste is prepared of 250 g geru which is applied on swollen shoulder of the animal. Within 2-3 days swelling is controlled. Keywords: shoulder, swelling, geru If animal gets wounded due to heavy load and is not able to take the load, 200 g khondi (Cadaba fruticosa) are ground to paste. Another method of treatment is to crush the leaves of custard apple. The juice extract is applied 3 times a day on the affected area, or the prepared paste is applied on the neck after heating. The wound gets healed and the animal gets relief Shri Sripal, S/o Shri Ram Singh, village Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Shukriabhai Janiabhai Choudhary, Dhunkal Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3197 Use of neem leaves to cure yoke gall in animals 3198 Cure of yoke gall of bullocks 3199 Use of kali makoi {Solarium nigrum) for treatment of swelling in animal body within 4-5 days. This should be continued at least for 5 days. Keywords: khondi, custard apple About 50 g leaves of neem (Azadirachta indica) is heated in a frying pan by adding mustard oil to it, and a paste is made. The paste is applied daily on the wound and it is wrapped with a bandage. It is good to apply a bamboo head-collar. Keywords: neem, bandage, bamboo A paste from bulbs of garlic (Allium sativum), seeds of Amaranthus paniculatus L. and fruits of Piper longum are prepared. The prepared paste is applied externally on the affected region. Keywords: garlic, piper This ITK is practised in village Rajupur in block Devchara of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. In this practice, a paste of 200-250 g kali makoi is prepared and it is applied on Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Ms Shantamma (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Nanhe Lai, S/o Shri Shiv Charan Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 S. nigrun the swelling part of the animal. Animal gets relieved in 2-3 days. Keywords: kali makoi, swelling Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No.