 □ Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters 416 Treatment of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle by using harida (Terminalia chebula) and baheda (Terminalia bellirica) Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) in cattle is controlled by applying to the affected parts with 500 g each of harida and behada powder mixed with 2,500 ml water, twice a day, after boiling. It is being used extensively by the cattle- growing farmers in Makarbili village of Nawapada district in Orissa. Foot-and-mouth disease of cattle is a severe problem in village Makarbili. FMD is a deadly viral disease of cattle, causing severe mouth and foot lesions. The oral mucosa and dorsum of the tongue are severely affected and there is sloughing of the mucous layer of oral cavity as well as dorsal aspect of the tongue, for which animal cannot eat. Similarly, development of severe lesions in the interdigital clefts of the four legs are seen, due to which the affected animals cannot walk properly. Ultimately, milk yield in cattle decreases abruptly and the bullocks cannot perform properly. There is severe deterioration of health and body conditions. Ms Bhanumati Behera, Plot No. 64, Surva Nagar, Unit 7, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) Makarbili, Boden, Nawapada (Orissa) 766 107 Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr S. Haque, Head and Dr P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand) West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS) Dr N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal) Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) Dr P.K.Das, Professor and Head, and Dr G.S. Parida, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Orissa Veterinary College, Bhubaneswar 751 003 (Orissa) Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE METHODOLOGY Experiment BAU The seeds of harida and baheda were collected locally and crushed to make a powder. Then 250 g of each of harida and baheda powder mixed with 1 litre of water and boiled to make a good paste. This paste was applied on foot lesions twice daily for 7 days after thorough washing. The experimentation on animals was done on 20 types of wounds. All the wounds were free of maggots (either the maggots were removed earlier or were not found). The wounds are evaluated on days 0, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12 and 14 to see the recovery. WBUAFS Clinical trial: The trial was conducted in 10 clinical cases of FMD. The dried fruits of harida and baheda were crushed thoroughly in a grinding stone separately. Fine powder was prepared and 500 g of each of them was mixed with 2.5 litres water and boiled for 30 min. After boiling, the mixed pasty preparation was kept overnight and allowed to cool.