 In addition, more than 84000 ha area under single cropping could easily bring under mustard cultivation, which could produce almost 50400 MT of mustard oil cake. Furthermore, almost 34759 MT meats are annually consumed in Tripura which produces almost equal amount of bone meal and meat meal. By creating a network of regulated slaughter houses across the state, locally processing the by-products of rice husk, MOC and bone meal and meat meal to prepare fish feed can effectively address the issues related to feed cost. In addition, it will generate secondary employment in oil mills, slaughter houses and feed industry. In addition there are about 16.00 sq Km of waterlogged seasonal ponds which are not used for any aquaculture purpose. These 569 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 ponds can be effectively used for Tilapia culture. Tilapia is a prolific breeder. The Tilapia thus produced from these ponds can be used in production of fish meal which will ensure further reduction of feed cost. Š Š Disease management: Epizootic ulcerative syndrome (EUS) caused by Aphanomyces invadans is one of the most dangerous, infectious and epidemic disease of fish in Tripura. Its outbreak could result poor yiels, lower market value and often complete loss of crops. CIFAX is the only registered medicine against EUS. Timely medicare not only reduce disease infestation by 72% but also ensures marketable produce upto 3175 Kg/ha (KVKNorth Tripura). However, the medicine is neither readily accessible to all fish farmers nor fully aware of the medicare options. Thus, awareness programme with enhanced availability of medicine at reasonable price needs to be ensured. In addition, supplementing fish feed with 2-3% Aswagandha (Withania somnifera) root powder could significantly improve the immunity level of fish (DARE-ICAR Annual Report 2016-17). Besides, Aswagandha could also be grown as soil binder in the dykes of the ponds with a complementary benefit of mixing root exudates with pond water. EUS mainly occurs due to drop down of water temperature during winter. For that, vegetable creepers can be planted around ponds or polythene shed can be made on pond to maintain temperature of pond environment. · Š Š Utilization of dikes for additional income: The pond dikes could efficiently be used for organic cultivation of vegetable and fruit through life saving irrigation from the pond and thereby use underutilized land and manpower for additional revenue and employment generation. At Dhalai district of Tripura additional income of Rs. 4,815/ pond was generated from the cultivation of pineapples, ginger, turmeric and beans on dikes. Further, the intensification of aquaculture through recycling of crop residues minimized feed and fertilizer cost and improved fish production from 934-1545 kg/ha (5000 fingerlings/ha) to 2283-2473 kg/ha/yr (stocking density- 10000 fingerlings/ha) with a net benefit Rs. 2,08,725/- (Debnath et al., 2015).