 Approximately 250 ml of kerosene is sufficient for treating 20 kg of seeds. This treatment renders seeds black. Farmers believe that almost 95% success can be achieved by this practice. Some farmers smear seeds first with kerosene and afterwards with DDT or BHC powder (Surendra-nagar, Gujarat). Padhryar (1994) 107 Application of karanj for control of Helicoverpa in chickpea One kg karanj (Pongamia piñnata) leaves and bark are soaked in 5 litres water and boiled for half an hour. It is strained and diluted in 15 litres water. This solution is used for spraying and is highly effective in controlling Helicoverpa pest in chickpea (Dahod, Gujarat). Dangi (2000) 65 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 108 Control of podborer in chickpea through insect repellent crops Podborer infestation in chickpea is effectively controlled by growing coriander and linseed along with, as these crops are insect repellent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 109 Control of insects in cotton and pigeonpea by use of extract of Ayani and Anuchhadi Growing primordials of ayani (Clerodendrum multiflorum) and Anuchhadi (a local name of plant) are collected and boiled in water. The boiled suspension is filtered through cotton cloth. Approximately 200 ml of this extract is mixed with 15 litres of water and the solution is sprinkled over cotton and pigeonpea to control insect pests. This practice is in use since time immemorial (Karshad). Pashliya (1992) 110 Jaggery solution for control of Helicoverpa larvae in pigeonpea The farmers spray 1–2% jaggery solution at flowering and pod formation stage of the crop, which helps in reducing pest damage on pigeonpea. They have the assumption that because of sweetness of jaggery, movement of black ants increases on pigeonpea which eat larvae of podborer pest complex, as a result of which there is reduction in pest intensity (Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 111 Control of Helicoverpa larvae in pigeonpea by inverted harrow operation Dragging inverted harrow on the standing crop of pigeonpea at pod-filling stage is helpful in minimizing larval population of Helicoverpa. This practice is less expensive and easy to operate (Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 112 Control of pod borer in pigeonpea by spraying jaggery solution Spraying of jaggery solution (0.4%) to pigeonpea controls podborer as ants and other insects attracted by jaggery destroys podborer eggs (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 113 Use of tobacco extract to control insect pests in pigeonpea Dried leaves of tobacco are boiled in water (500g in 5–7 litres) till only half the volume is left. Approximately 15– 25 g of 'Morthuthu' (CuSO4 2H20) is mixed in filtered decoction and used as insecticide. About 30–50 ml of the content is mixed in 12–15 litres of water and sprayed on the pigeonpea.