 yy Remove all the manure, litter, feathers, cobwebs, dust, and any other organic materials by scrapping with a hard brush. yy Remove all weeds and rubbish from the area outside the house, bur feathers, etc. yy Remove dust/ feathers from wire mesh, crevices, cracks, cages, and floor using flame gun. Fishery Management during summer yy Warmer water decrease the ability of water to hold oxygen so during summer season catfish farming may be better option. yy If irrigation is available the fresh water should be circulated in pond to increase oxygen level. yy Running a boat into water can help circulate the water and increase its oxygen content Management during monsoon Pond Evacuation — The volume of water will naturally increase during the rainy season. This is why evacuation is so important. Dig the pond so that the depth increases. If the depth increases then the water holding capacity automatically increases. Prepare and Repair — In most cases, excessive rainfall results in erosion of dykes, which causes physical damage to the pond. Hence, it is very important to repair the dykes just before the rainy season. Also, account for a proper slope. This will help in drainage and also help in dealing with excessive water. Desilting — Over the course of time, organic matter gets deposited on the bottom of the pond. This silt reacts with excess water and can hamper the water condition killing helpful algae and zooplanktons. This 92 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS is why it is very important to remove the silt before monsoon settles. Provide Oxygen-rich Water — During rainy season, fish come to the surface of water for oxygen. This happens due to lack of dissolved oxygen. Immediately add fresh water or use an aerator to increase oxygen supply. Frequently Monitor Water Condition — The pH level falls during rainfall. As a result, the surface water becomes more acidic in nature. It is so very important to have a proper drainage and abundant of fresh water. Pond Evacuation: Role of inlet and outlet — You don’t want your pond to overflow during monsoons. Hence, it is very important to maintain optimum volume of water. Outlet structures can help to maintain optimum volume of water in the pond during the rainy seasons and allow for complete draining of pond. In majority cases, a collecting area is created inside the pond which collects excess water and drains it. Special Precautions to avoid Corona Pandemic Some precautions for cattle shed yy Restrict visitor movement to the cattle shed. yy The animal keeper should wear a mask on the mouth before going to the animal shed. yy As far as possible put soap, water buckets and hand sanitizer at the entrance of the animal shed. yy The equipment used in the animal shed should be cleaned and sanitized irregularly. yy If an animal is ill, keep it separate from other animals. Preventive measures for milk sellers yy A vendor selling milk should wear gloves in hands.