 Reaching the Unreached and Empowering Women and Youth 8.1. Dissemination of agro-advisories to farmers Information and Communication Technology and social media were employed to deliver need- based messages to farmers. Mobile apps, m-Kisan and KVK portal served as vehicle to reach out to farmers with much needed and timely farm extension advisories. Over 6700 WhatsApp groups were created by KVKs for regular two-way interface with farmers. KVKs have now been linked with 3.5 lakh Common Service Centres (CSCs) in all blocks so as to provide technological solutions to the farmers visiting CSCs with agriculture related problems. 8.2. Skill development of rural youth for self-employability Skilling the manpower engaged in agriculture and allied sectors is imperative for boosting job- led growth in rural areas. KVKs offered skill training in job roles covering seed production, farm mechanization, dairy, poultry, horticulture, commodity management and agri-entrepreneurship. Skill development training programs were taken up by KVKs since 2016-17 through certified scientists having expertise in the respective job role. The outcome envisioned through these training programs is creation of non-farm jobs in allied activities, generating maximum number of entry level jobs, skilling and linking all stake holders to agriculture value chain, enhancing the economic value of time and labour of landless workforce and enabling youth as agri- 167 entrepreneurs. During 2018-20, KVK Scientists organized 1520 National Skill Qualification Framework (NSQF) aligned courses of skill development programmes of 200 h duration to 30814 rural youth. 8.3. Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) Youth play a vital role in transforming agriculture in India. Retaining youth in agriculture is a big challenge. At present, 35% of the total population are young as they are in the age group of 15-35 years and 75% of them live in rural areas. Continuous migration of rural youth to urban areas has been observed of late. Agriculture is to be made more profitable and remunerative for creating interest and confidence among rural youth. Fragmented land holdings are indeed a threat to food security for the burgeoning population. A need was felt for developing a comprehensive model of agriculture which is profitable for the rural youth. Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) project was initiated in 2016-17, which is being implemented by KVKs in 100 rural districts. Skill training of 9900 youth was undertaken, and the trained youth were facilitated to start 2872 agricultural enterprises such as vermicomposting, mushroom production, bee keeping, nursery unit, IFS, processing and value addition. 8.4. Nutri-Sensitive Agri-Resources and Innovations (NARI) Agriculture sector growth has contributed mainly to economic growth in India over the past several decades, but nutrition still remains a major concern.