 Drone technology has a prominent position in assisting farmers with more efficient decision-making and automating agricultural processes. This could help overcome some of the adoption barriers faced by farmers in less economically advantaged regions. Keywords: Agri-drone, Unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs), Custom hiring centres (CHCs), KVKs T HE majority of rural households continue to rely on agriculture as their main source of income. India’s economy is also mostly dependent on agricultural produce which includes a major portion of its exports as well. Nearly 56% of the population depends upon the agriculture sector for their livelihood. In India, about 44% of the cultivated land is taken care of by small and marginal farmers, who contribute to almost 60% of the total food grain production. It has consistently stood as the pivotal economic sector in India, assuming a strategic role in the nation’s economic development. Crop failure due to adverse weather conditions and uncontrolled pest issues have been the key contributors to this scenario. Moreover, Indian farmers are even now dependent on monsoon rains for irrigation and use of old methods for other farming practices. As a result, despite farmers’ tireless efforts, the quality and quantity of agricultural produce are sometimes compromised. To address the food demands of a rising human population, agricultural practices have integrated a growing number of technologies to increase crop yield and reduce operative expenditure. As a result, the increasing use of 'smart technologies,' such as artificial intelligence and automated machinery, has been incorporated into Indian Farming 74 (03): 52-55; March 2024 various stages of food production, from crop planting and livestock guarding to food processing and transport. At present time, when the farming sector is facing several challenges, including labour shortage and falling incomes, the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAVs), popularly known as drones, has come to the rescue of farmers to aid them in various activities including spraying of pesticides, and nutrients management. Drone improves efficiency by reducing workload and time required in numerous industries. The progressive automation of agricultural processes has significantly improved the productivity of agricultural labour, shifting masses of workers into other productive industrial areas. With the advancement of technology, the research on drones has become more and more in-depth, and the practical application fields have become more extensive. The unparalleled advantages of these ‘smart technologies’ also play an important role in their incorporation into various stages of food production. At present, drone technology has also gradually matured. The application of drones in agriculture is already widespread across Asia and other parts of the world.