 There are around 70 organizations all over the country undertaking export of isabgol husk and seed. Most of the leading exporters/ processors are based in Sidhpur in Mehsana district and Palanpur in Banaskantha district of Gujarat. Farmers from Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh also used to sale their produce in Gujarat. From high fibre breakfast cereals, breads and ice cream to medicines, isabgol is now a popular ingredient with food product designers. The main importers of psyllium husk and seeds are USA, Canada, Japan, Germany, Italy, France, Britain, China, Korea, Malaysia and Taiwan. Germany is the largest single importer of seed. The local demand for the psyllium is also increasing day-by-day. About 20 to 25% of total production of husk i.e. 3,000-4,000 MT is consumed in the domestic market. Indian pharmacy companies like Dabur, Baidynath, Dr. Reddy are also using psyllium husk for making various drugs. There are various local brands having good market size across the country. SUMMARY Isabgol husk has a significant export demand. It is meant for direct or indirect consumption and the market for such industries is growing rapidly. Scope for technology upgradation is tremendous. Key schemes of Central Govt. and State Govt. could be utilized to set up most modern plants. Export demand is on the higher side as compared to domestic consumption. Scope of forward linkage with industries is on business-to-business basis. Branding offers huge potential for product promotion. Increased interest in health and nutrition is creating demand for isabgol husk and other derivatives. FPOs can invest in mini versions of recommended technologies, which are developed by institutes & other reputed private players. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Manish Das (Director), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: director.dmapr@icar.gov.in Isabgol seed Isabgol husk September–October 2023 15 Technology Production technology of safed musli Herbal products are a valued gift from nature to humankind. Chlorophytum borivilianum herb is commonly known as safed musli and has therapeutic applications in Ayurvedic and Unani systems of medicine. Safed musli is among the 20-odd species of native medicinal plants that enjoy extensive therapeutic applications and an expansive global market. It possess spermatogenic property and helps cure impotency as it is rich in glycosides. Its fasciculated roots contain saponins and are used as a health-promoting drug or tonic in the Ayurvedic medicinal system. However, due to its aphrodisiac properties, it is called ‘Nature’s wonder drug’, ‘Natural Viagra’, ‘Divya Aushad’, and ‘White gold’ as well as is considered an alternative to Viagra. Safed musli is cultivated on a small scale in different parts of India.