 An innovative postharvest treatment with calcium chloride as vacuum infiltration coupled with modified atmosphere packaging of white button mushrooms resulted in its excellent marketability up to 7 days at ambient condition as against only 1-2 days in commercial practice. Packaging of onion Pusa Red in nylon-net bags and open-weave hessian bags of different sizes from 1 kg to 20 kg indicated that at the end of 2 months of storage at room temperature, there was no rotting in smaller packaging lot of 1 kg and 2 kg in nylon-net bags and highest rotting (6.1%) was observed in 20 kg lots of open-weave hessian bags. Total loss due to PLW and rotting was minimum (8.54%) in 1 kg lot of nylon-net bags and maximum (17.65%) in 20 kg lots of pen-weave hessian bags. Tomato fruits packed in wooden box with dried grass as filling material harvested at breaker stage was found effective in reducing PLW and ripening. It also increased the shelf-life to 12 days as against 10.6 days in control. Studies on removal of florets from the harvested spikes of gladiolus Sunayana and Vandana revealed increased flower opening and diameter of the 7th floret with reduced longevity of spikes. Radio-isotopic studies on sucrose partitioning by the cut rose First Red revealed that postharvest uptake and accumulation of sucrose in different plant parts are dependent on its concentration in the vase solution. A concentration of 4-5% sucrose in vase solution was found to be the optimum for maintaining postharvest quality of cut rose First Red. Excellent marketability of cut rose First Red up to 3 days were observed in zero-energy cool chamber as against only 1 day at ambient condition. VALUE-ADDED PRODUCTS The technology for fruit-based carbonated drinks on pilot plant scale has been developed. The beverages are being produced on commercial line under the brand name ‘Pusa Fruit Drinks’. A method has been standardized for the preparation of apple pulp. The heat process of pulp at 90°C for 5 minutes was suitable to make it free from microorganisms as well as enzymatic browning. The 8-minute conventional blanching treatment of peeled banana and 3-minute microwave blanching resulted in cent per cent activity loss of the enzymes(PPO, POD and PME) are responsible for browning. Onion powder could be prepared from 5 mm thick osmotically-dehydrated onion slices after drying in a cabinet dryer at 60°C for 10 hr, grinding in a laboratory powder mill and sieving with 30 mesh sieve, these could be stored up to 6 months in 400 gauge LDPE or 200 gauge HDPE pouches at 7°C compared to 4 months at ambient condition with better pungency. Drying and dehydration including osmotic concentration have been standardized for plum, ginger, apple and galgal.