 The activities include collection, compilation and validation of prevailing indigenous technical knowledge (ITK); scientific intervention for development of environment friendly and durable production system; integration of ITKs in scientific research for livelihood and nutritional security of farmers in tribal areas; demonstration and training on bio-fortified nutrition rich crops/varieties in tribal areas; and demonstration and training on allied activities like fisheries and livestock. Under this initiative, technology assessment and demonstrations were organized through 6009 on farm trials and 34589 frontline demonstrations. Besides, training programmes and extension activities were carried out to benefit around 6 lakh tribal farmers. Similar programmes are being implemented for scheduled caste community through various initiatives including capacity building, technology adoption and establishment of micro-enterprises. 9. Enabling Scientists to Connect to Farmers 9.1. Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (MGMG) “Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav” programme initiated in August 2015 involves multi-disciplinary team of 3-4 scientists of ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities connect to a cluster of five villages for giving suitable advice to the farmers on technical and other related aspects through regular visits or telephone. Scientists also create awareness among farmers about climate change, other customized technologies, protective measures, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and other issues of local and national importance. During such interface, scientists also involve local Panchayats and stakeholders including development departments, NGOs and private organizations. There is no provision of any budget in this program and the Institutes/ universities provide facilities from their own resources. More than 13000 villages have been covered under this programme. 169 9.2. Farmer FIRST Program (FFP) The Farmer FIRST programme initiated in 2016 aims at enriching Farmer-Scientist interface. It seeks to create linkages, technology adaptation and application, content mobilization, partnership building through active partnership with the farmers. The program moves beyond the production and productivity issues and addresses the complex, diverse and risk prone realities of majority of the farmers through this interface. Farmer FIRST interventions are applied as a community experimentation both at household and village levels. The project was initiated at 52 centres involving 114 villages and 50000 farm families across 20 states in problem solving mode with the participation of farmers’ and scientists in broad areas such as NRM, crop, horticulture, animal husbandry and development of an institutional arrangement. The income of the households in these villages increased by 1.5 times in a span of three years. 10.