 Varietal replacement in vegetable farming: The farm women of the region grew several types of seasonal vegetables, usually before and after rice crop. As a practice, traditional varieties were cultivated without following Indian Farming 40 March 2023 improved production practices. Being ignorant about suitable high yielding and hybrid varieties in different vegetable crops, scientific package of practices pertaining to management of nutrients, pests and diseases, post-harvest care and packaging for marketing, resulted in incurring marginal profits from vegetable farming. Therefore, with an objective to enhance vegetable production in the region with a vision to maximize their net profits, introduction and demonstrations of high yielding and hybrid varieties of vegetables like cowpea (var. Kaveri), pumpkin (var. Arjuna), bitter gourd (var. VNR–28), brinjal (var. VNR–Utkal), ridge gourd (var. VNR–102), okra (var. Radhika), cucumber (var. VNR–Krish), chilli (var. Daya) were extensively carried out in the cluster villages. Under the livelihood enhancement model, over 40 farm women were provided with quality vegetables seeds along with fractional inputs comprising of fertilizers, pesticides, fungicides and plant hormones as critical requisite materials. They were trained and motivated particularly to practice seed treatment before sowing to minimize the subsequent crop protection cost. Other simple yet effective technologies such as raising vegetable seedlings in pro-trays to obtain an early and healthy planting material; fertilizer management especially judicious use of nitrogen fertilizer and application of micronutrients; crop health management technologies such as application of need-based pesticides, fungicides, weedicides and hormones; pest monitoring and surveillance, use of pheromone traps, tricho-cards were also extensively disseminated. Other interventions included pre-cooling to remove field heat and to extend shelf life. The women farmers of the region were constantly supported with training and capacity development programmes, continuous hand- holding and technical backstopping. Outcomes: With the introduction of high yielding and hybrid vegetable varieties among the farm women of the adopted village cluster, there was an increase in average gross return of `72,500/ year and the average net return was `43,500/annum. With having good yield potential, an average yield advantage of about 25–50% was realized in the farmers’ field. This resulted in an incremental income of ~155–203% over previously grown varieties as represented in Table 2. The group approach in vegetable farming under livelihood enhancement model has generated a total income of `6,59,300 out of which a value of `98,895 of vegetables has been used for household consumption and `5,60,405 of vegetables were sold in nearby market.