 These dedicated farm markets allow consumers to have access to locally grown, farm fresh produce, enables farmers the opportunity to develop a personal relationship with their customers, and cultivate consumer loyalty with the farmers who grows the produce. Initially, being a producer company, Sahaja started with a policy that it will solely depend on farmers’ money. The producer company in the year 2010, started with a capital of Rs 5 lakh, raised through pooled funds from farmers and farming groups. In 2014-15, the company’s turnover increased tremendously to Rs 3.6 crore and it made a profit of Rs 30 lakhs. Out of this, Rs 5 lakh was distributed to the famers and some money was pooled back into the business. According to a 66-year-old farmer, Mr. Nagaraj from Hosahalli, who grows carrot and beetroot says that, after the direct market access, he has benefitted a lot and his income level has doubled since last four years. “If the market price for the carrot of normal variety is Rs 12-18, I get about Rs 25-35 for my organic produce through Sahaja. Even if we deduct a nominal charge for the Sahaja initiative, we still end up getting 60-80 percent higher for our produce,” Nagaraj says. Though farmers in this region have small plots that range from 0.5 acres to 2.5 acres, farmers here leading a dignified life due to marketing of their produce through FPO. 269 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 14 kerala Kerala agriculture is distinct from that of rest of India in terms of resource endowments, land use and cropping pattern, scale of farming as well as socioeconomic factors. Geographically, the state has a vast coastal line (low lands, 10 %), midlands (42 %) and highlands (48%). The state receives high rainfall (2500 – 3000 mm), yet faces acute shortage of water in summer. The relative humidity favours cultivation of most of the tropical and subtropical crops but at the same time harbors all major pests and diseases. The diversity in soil, climate and socio economic endowments in the state favors cultivation of a variety of crops, contributing to a rich and varied crop cafeteria spread across its length and breadth. Another specialty of Kerala is abundance of home gardens estimated at around 64 lakh numbers, presenting a combination of crops, livestock, poultry/duckery and aquaculture. The road to achieving higher farm income is full of challenges. With wide variations in agro-ecosystems in the state, broad-based recommendations are difficult to be implemented. Another difficulty is the large variations in climate, soil quality and social situations at micro-level. Even the cropping practices being followed vary from season to season and are highly influenced by anticipated economic returns. The small farms which account for the large chunk of cultivated area require special attention.