 Biotechnology of Fruit Crops Harnessing bio-technology in horticultural crops, influence of plant materials, physical, chemical factors and growth regulators on growth and development of plant cell, tissue and organ culture; Callus culture – types, cell division, differentiation, morphogenesis, organogenesis, embryogenesis; Use of bioreactors and in vitro methods for production of secondary metabolites, suspension culture, nutrition of tissues and cells, regeneration of tissues, ex vitro, establishment of tissue cultured plants; Physiology of hardening – hardening and field transfer, organ culture – meristem, embryo, anther, ovule culture, embryo rescue, somaclonal variation, protoplast culture and fusion; Construction and identification of somatic hybrids and cybrids, wide hybridization, in vitro pollination and fertilization, haploids, in vitro mutation, artificial seeds, cryopreservation, rapid clonal propagation, genetic engineering and transformation in horticulture crops, use of molecular markers. In vitro selection for biotic and abiotic stress, achievements of biotechnology in horticultural crops. 42 Unit 9. Protected Fruit Culture Greenhouse – world scenario, Indian situation; present and future, different agro-climatic zones in India, environmental factors and their effects on plant growth; Basics of greenhouse design, different types of structures – glasshouse, shade net, poly tunnels – Design and development of low cost greenhouse structures; Interaction of light, temperature, humidity, CO2, water on crop regulation – Greenhouse heating, cooling, ventilation and shading; Types of ventilation – Forced cooling techniques – Glazing materials – Micro irrigation and Fertigation; Automated greenhouses, microcontrollers, waste water recycling, management of pest and diseases - IPM. Unit 10. Principles and Practices of Plant Propagation Introduction, life cycle in plants, cellular basis for propagation. Sexual propagation – apomixis, polyembryony, chimeras. Factors influencing seed germination, hormonal regulation of germination and seedling growth. Seed quality, treatment, packing, storage, certification and testing. Rooting of cuttings under mist and hot beds. Physiological, anatomical and biochemical aspects of root induction in cuttings. Selection of elite mother plants. Establishment of bud wood bank. Stock, scion and interstock relationship and incompatibility. Physiology of dwarfing rootstocks. Rejuvenation, progeny orchard and scion bank. Micropropagation ---- in vitro clonal propagation, direct organogenesis, embryogenesis, micrografting and meristem culture. Hardening, packing and transport of micro-propagules. 4.3 FLORICULTURE & LANDSCAPING Unit 1. Breeding Principles – Evolution of varieties, origin, distribution, genetic resources, genetic divergence.