 Standard feed, whole microalgal biomass and extracted microalgal protein diet in the ratio of 25:25:50 proved to be the best diet for maximum growth of the freshwater fish varieties, rohu, mrigal and catla. As a by-product of trans-esterification process, crude glycerol was also obtained which was purified up to 92%. Production of dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) inhibitory peptides from milk and encapsulation: The specific hydrolysates of alpha lactalbumin and kappa casein isolated from Gir cow milk exhibited better dipeptidyl peptidase-IV (DPP-IV) inhibitory activity with Ekcel decomposer Bio-waste management through microbial consortia Hydrothermal processing of microalgal biomass SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 171 IC50 value of 0.78 mg/ml and 61.6 µg/ml. The hydrolysates of alpha-lactalbumin (NEH), encapsulated in double emulsion matrix (EEH) and freeze-dried encapsulated hydolysates (FDH) revealed a higher DPP- IV inhibitory activity as compared to the non- encapsulated hydrolysate in vitro through simulated gastrointestinal digestion. The impact of oral administration of the encapsulated and non-encapsulated hydrolysates was also evaluated in nicotinamide- streptozotocin induced diabetic rats. Oral administration of the hydrolysates for four weeks helped in improvement of the diabetic condition in rats. A significant decrease was observed in the fasting blood glucose, TGs, total cholesterol, VLDL, LDL level with NEH, FDH and EEH fed diabetic rat compared to diabetic control. The level of liver enzymes (ALT and AST) and ALP also decreased significantly in diabetic animals by NEH, FDH and EEH intake. The level of plasma insulin and GLP-1 increased significantly in diabetic animals fed with EEH. NEH, FDH and EEH exhibited anti-diabetic properties, and the anti-diabetic potential of the EEH group was comparatively better. Smart aquaculture model (SAM): An android based mobile application, CIBA Shrimp KrishiApp, was developed and launched for handholding the shrimp farmers to manage their farms taking customised real- time data based decisions at the farm level. The app size is 7.2 MB and it will work in android version 5.0 and above. The app is made available in English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu languages. Using this interactive mobile application, the farmer can input his farm data on day- to-day farming operations/observations from stocking to harvest. Based on the inputs provided and in-built decision-making system, the app will display pond-wise status on shrimp survival, biomass, feed conversion ratio, pond water quality, and the expenditure incurred. Three expert systems, viz. shrimp feed management, water quality management and shrimp disease management, are inbuilt in the app. Based on the data fed into the app, it alerts the end-user with technical advisories whenever any deviations are noted in water quality, feeding and shrimp health.