 Despite significant achievements in the past, agriculture in our country has many complexities and challenges that need to be addressed at the earliest. Centrality of Water Water has taken a central stage in all spheres of agriculture including research and planning. Agriculture uses over 80 percent of the total available clean water in India. The water conservation and management are amongst the highest priorities today. ICAR is working for developing technologies and effective measures for enhancing water productivity in agriculture. The Council has embarked upon developing regional crop plans by the year 2022 for efficient water management, amongst others. Under NICRA (National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agriculture) 446 climate-resilient villages in 151 clusters have been developed. This has been planned to scale up to 300 climate resilient clusters by 2024. Development of 200 climate resilient varieties are also planned by 2024. Our focus on development and deployment of climate resilient varieties and technologies would continue. Food & Nutrition India has committed to SDGs 2030 for zero hunger and food security led health and nutrition to all. The Council has targeted to develop 30 additional bio-fortified varieties by the year 2024 to strengthen the 'Malnuterious Free India' programme along with promotion of natural food systems, with DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 3 mineral, protein and vitamins enriched food grains, oilseeds, etc. Import Substitution and Export Promotion Enhancing food production, the export promotion and import substitution are the focus through local to global and one district one product initiatives. The processable varieties could be one potent tool to enhance the availability of raw material for processing industries and reduce their imports. ICAR has targeted to develop 30 processable varieties of field and horticultural crops by the year 2024 to substitute imports. The import substitution in edible oil is also targeted by developing 30 high yielding varieties of annual oilseed crops by 2024. The promotion of export through better varieties in fruits and vegetables matching the consumer preference and markets is also on the agenda. ICAR has also embarked upon putting in place the regional crop plans for commodities having export potential. Conservation of Indigenous Breeds Emphasis is being laid on the protection and improvement of indigenous breeds. Gazette notification of 197 notified indigenous breeds was done by 2020. This will help in conservation and improvement of local breeds. For the first time in 2021, three breeds of dogs were also registered in India. These are suitable for hunting, guarding and intelligence. In order to make India FMD free by 2025, the council has prepared a road map to disseminate thermo-stable high potent FMD vaccine by the year 2022.