 Additionally, lengthy publication lists may inadvertently lower journal rankings. Understanding that impact factor calculations hinge on total citation counts in the numerator and the total number of papers published annually in the denominator, the key to mastering impact factor lies in a simple mantra: publish select papers, focusing on rapidly evolving fields, to enhance impact factor and ensure optimal visibility and recognition. In an editor’s journey, the impact factor is and will always be (being too conservative) a constant companion and so will be the pressure to spew a respectable figure. The discussion on citations and impact factors is endless, yet, amidst this, journal editors will always be the ones grappling with the impact factor's implications. It is we who stands at the crossroads, entrusted with charting a course that balances the demands of impact with the commitment to scholarly discovery. Best of luck to all my fellow Editors-in-Chief as we continue this journey together. E DITORIAL Impact Factor: Reflections of an Editor-in-Chief (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 January 2024 Overview of DKMA's role in Agricultural Knowledge Management S K Malhotra1* 1ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 This article provides an overview of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA), tracing its evolution since its establishment in 1929. Formerly known as the Publications and Information Division, DKMA has become a vital Nodal Centre for ICAR, focusing on information, communication, and knowledge management. The article highlights DKMA's key contributions, including the publication of research journals, magazines, handbooks, textbooks, and extensive online resources. It emphasizes the Directorate's role in maintaining a global presence through open-access portals and social media. DKMA's involvement in significant events, such as Republic Day showcases and the MACS G-20 meeting, reflects its impactful initiatives. The article concludes by underlining DKMA's ongoing commitment to diverse publications, solidifying ICAR's prominence in the agricultural sector. Keywords: DKMA, ICAR, Information, Knowledge management, Publications T HE Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA), the erstwhile Publications and Information Division (P&I Division), was created along with the establishment of ICAR (the then Imperial Council of Agricultural Research) in the year 1929. The main aim was to compile agricultural information and publish it in the print media for building the capacities of various stakeholders in the agricultural sector. Evolution of DKMA With the passing of time and on the basis of requirement, it was upgraded to Directorate of Information and Publication in Agriculture (DIPA) and subsequently upgraded to Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) vide office order No. F.No. 3-1/2010-GAS (DIPA) dated 27 January 2011.