 Indian Centella Apiaceae pennywort _ asiatica L. Vegetable Diplazium Athyriaceae fern esculentum (Retz.) Sw. Meghalaya Fruit and & Mizoram leaves Nagaland, — Fruit Mizoram and Meghalaya Mizoram & Leaves and Meghalaya fruit All north Fruit eastern ststes Tripura Whole plant Nagaland & Leaves Meghalaya combating enteric diseases. Treating diabetes, cancer, and neurodegenerative diseases. Maintains blood pressure, lowers cholesterol levels, helps weight loss and to treat cold, sore throat and headache. To treat hypertension and microbial infection. To treat fever, wounds, tooth decay, reproductive problems and arterial hypertension and in cases of liver and spleen enlargement. Leprosy, kidney trouble, ulcers, body aches, asthma, gastric, catarrh, elephantis. To treat diabetes, smallpox, asthama, diarrhea, rheumatism and wounds. Indian Farming 62 March 2024 Indian Farming 63 March 2024 Common name Scientific name Family Distribution Plants parts used Therapeutic utility Image Chameleon plant/ fish mint Houttuynia cordata Thunb Saururaceae All north eastern ststes Root, shoot and leaves Treatment of cholera, dysentery, curing of blood deficiency and purification of blood. Sugandh- mantri Homalomena aromatica (Spreng.) Schott Araceae (Herb) Tripura Stem, leaves, root To treat cold and cough, jaundice, stomach, and skin problems. Elephants foot yam Amorphophal- lus paeonii- folius Araceae Tripura and Meghalaya Stem, leaves, tuber Tuber paste is applied externally to treat piles, toothache and rheumatism. Aerial yam Dioscorea bulbifera L. Dioscoreaceae All north- eastern states Tuber To treat worms, piles and dysentery and to kill hair lices. Diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in terms of value- addition and post-harvest management The untapped potential of indigenous and lesser- known horticultural crops in the region remains underutilized, despite their ability to address issues of poverty, food insecurity, and nutritional deficiencies through processing, value addition, and diverse applications. These fruits and vegetables boast high levels of vitamins and minerals, along with valuable secondary metabolites and medicinal properties that can be harnessed for industrial and medicinal purposes. Additionally, these underexplored crops exhibit resilience in adverse environmental conditions. Farmers in the Northeast are well-informed about these crops and their medicinal benefits, often using them to treat various ailments. Nevertheless, these crops are predominantly cultivated in backyard gardens or forested areas and are yet to be commercially grown. The various value-added products, such as jam, jelly, pickles, wine sauce, chutney, etc., and commercial products including essential oils, fibre, and dye, can be prepared from these underutilized horticultural crops. This provides an opportunity to boost income for local farmers and promotes sustainable agricultural practices.