 Introduction Agricultural intensification and enhanced resilience to water stress through irrigation development is a widely discussed approach for achieving food security (Sustainable Development Goal (SDG)2), climate action (SDG13), and poverty reduction (SDG1) in smallholder- dominated poverty hotspots such as the Eastern Gangetic Plains (EGP) of South Asia. From 1994 to 2012, poverty in the Indian state of Bihar, which encompasses a large part of the EGP, has been reduced from 61% to 34%. This figure still lags behind national averages in the region such as 21% in India, 15% in Nepal and 20% in Bangladesh as of 2010 (World Bank Group, 2016). Situated between the Himalayas and the Bay of Bengal, agricultural production risks are increasing in the Eastern Gangetic Plains due to a progressively more erratic monsoon cycle and high exposure to climate shocks such as droughts and heat (Sheth, 2015). To adapt to increasing dry spells, groundwater is the main source of supplemental irrigation water for farmers in the EGP, but reliable access and associated irrigation intensities vary widely (Foster et al., 2019; Shah et al., 2009; Urfels et al., 2020). Consequently, policy ini­ tiatives in the Indian EGP promise to transform agriculture by doubling farmers’ incomes through irrigation-led agricultural intensification that relies on expanding groundwater use (Lele, 2019; Struik and Kuyper, 2017). These initiatives focus on investments in better irrigation infra­ structure, entrepreneurship, and irrigation services to reduce climate risks and increase agricultural productivity. However, while there is ample literature on the potential of irrigation-led agricultural intensification to increase yields (especially under controlled conditions), the potential for directly reducing poverty by raising farmer incomes from crop production is poorly understood. As highlighted by Balasubramanya and Stifel (2020), the evidence on linkages between irrigation and poverty reduction remain limited although previous research has outlined the importance of cross-sectoral and indirect effects of irrigation development on poverty reduction (Namara et al., 2010). More recently, studies in Sub-Saharan Africa (Frelat et al., 2016; Harris, 2019) have shown that investing in agri­ cultural production may only provide modest improvements in house­ holds’ poverty status and increasingly cross-sectoral efforts are needed to reach SDG1. These studies showed that land per capita ratios limit the personal daily incomes from farming (FPDI) that can be expected from agricultural intensification when compared to national and interna­ tional poverty lines (Harris, 2019). However, such evidence remains scarce in the rice-wheat systems of the EGP and filling this knowledge gap may provide critical insights for designing targeted policies and development programs for the sustainable intensification of agriculture.