 Rural, Agricultural, Animal Husbandry, Dairy and Women Developmental Programmes implemented by Govt. of India. Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs). Unit 10: Gender Sensitization and Empowerment Gender and empowerment: meaning, gender related definitions and importance for empowering women; need and focus on gender sensitization, gender in community diversity and its implication for empowerment. Gender perspectives in development of women, social characteristics, roles, responsibilities, resources, constraints, legal issues and opportunities; economical, educational and other parameters. Gender tools and methodologies: Dimensions and methodologies for empowerment; gender budgeting; gender analysis framework- context, activities, resources and programme action profile; technologies and empowerment - gender specific technologies, household technology interface, socio-cultural interface and women as consumer of technologies. Gender issues and development: health and nutrition, violence, governance, education and media, Gender Audit. 126 16 AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS 16.1 AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS Unit 1: Statistical Methods I Descriptive statistics. Elements of probability theory, conditional probability, Bayes’ theorem. Random variable-discrete and continuous. Mathematical expectation. Moment generating and characteristic functions. Laws of large numbers. Central limit theorem. Discrete probability distributions-binomial, Poisson, negative binomial and hypergeometric. Continuous probability distributions-normal, rectangular, Cauchy exponential, gamma and beta. Sampling distributions- chi-square, t, and F. Bivariate normal distribution-conditional and marginal. Point estimation-unbiasedness, consistency, efficiency, sufficiency. Completeness Minimum variance unbiased estimator. Cramer-Rao Inequality. Rao-Blackwell theorem and Lehman- Scheffe theorem. Methods of point estimation like Maximum likelihood, Moments, Minimum chi- square. Confidence interval estimation. Testing of hypotheses -two types of errors, level of significance and power of a test. Neyman-Pearson Lemma. Uniformly most powerful tests and their construction. Unbiased test, Likelihood ratio test. Tests of significance based on Z, t, chi- square and F distributions. Unit 2: Statistical Methods II Correlation, rank correlation, correlation ratio, intra-class correlation. Simple and multiple regression analysis, partial and multiple correlation. Examination of residuals. Model-adequacy, Selecting best regression. Order statistics. Non-parametric tests-run, sign, rank, Wilcoxon, Kruskal- Wallis, Mann-Whitney, Cochran and Friedman’s tests. Contingency tables. Log linear models. Sequential analysis sequential probability ratio test. Elements of stochastic processes. Multivariate normal distribution-estimation of mean vector and dispersion matrix. Wishart distribution, Hotelling T2, multivariate analysis of variance, principal component analysis, factor analysis, discriminant analysis, cluster analysis.