 Interventions such as introduction of pulses, Terafill water filter for safe and hygienic drinking water, drudgery reducing tools and improved smokeless chulha were made to improve nutritional status and quality health of tribal families. Emphasizing on doubling farmers’ income by addressing gender concerns and technological gaps through developing gender sensitive model, a project was taken up at Khorda and Puri districts of Odisha. Relating to doubling the farm income, information on existing income generating activities, income and expenditure pattern of farm families were analyzed. Also capacity building and skill upgradation programmes on improved methods of paddy cultivation, cropping pattern for year round vegetable cultivation, pro-tray method of nursery raising and plasticulture in agriculture were organized. Nutrition and livelihood enhancement of Farm women: Good agricultural practices in mango were popularized among the farming community of Mayurbhanj district. A prototype of mobile hot water treatment trolley for mango was designed to facilitate the treatment in farmers’ field. Women farmers were trained on improved aquaculture practices to enhance household fish consumption and income. Supplementary feeding with groundnut oil cake and rice bran in 1:1 ratio at 5% of the biomass, resulted in enhancement of weight of 400–500 g of Indian major carps within 5 months period. A prototype of dip net to facilitate easy harvesting of fish was designed. Market linkage with private partners for sale of small and indigenous fresh water fish species (SIFFS) was initiated. Besides, a prototype of tent type solar dryer was also made for promoting hygienic drying of SIFFS. Among several constraints faced by women in family poultry production (FPP), lack of scientific management of chicks during initial 4 weeks of age was the major problem reported by women farmers. In peri-urban dairy farming, skill oriented capacity development programme, access to input resources and marketing opportunity were identified as the major limitations. About 80% of dairy women handle care of new born calves, milking, cleaning and preparation of cow dung cakes. Majority (70%) of women in dairy farming perceived that knowledge about balanced feeding and feeding of pregnant animals is the critical area for capacity building. An action research was conducted to develop a suitable model for FPP (Family Poultry Production) especially for women farmers. The supplementary feeding resulted in higher weight gain of poultry birds along with enhancement of income per beneficiary. Growing kids fed on oil cake and mineral mixture recorded the highest average daily gain and feed efficiency. The supplementary feeding of locally available proteinaceous groundnut oil cake along with mineral mixture had beneficial effect on reducing age at first service, post parturient complications of female goats.