 In order to promote Agri-entrepreneurship, the establishment of agribusiness incubation centres at each of the AUs to shall give a boost to start-ups in the agriculture and allied areas. yy Global outreach Agricultural education is to be harmonized with existing and emerging issues related to WTO and free market economies. Worldwide, agriculture is becomingcompetitive both price-wise and quality-wise. Price and brand equity have become more prominent than before. Indian agriculture is no exception and its objectives have to align with stakeholders’ needs, clients’ perspective, peer concerns and market vibes. yy Strengthening of infrastructure and resources The AUs are charged with complete integration of teaching, research and extension for holistic rural development. Most of the SAUs have not been able to achieve integration of these functions due to limited physical, financial and appropriate human resources. In addition to enhanced government support, the AUs will be required to generate their own resources through innovative programmes, consultancy, enrolment of foreign students, sale of seed/ planting material etc.). yy Innovations in curriculum Inclusion of disciplines viz. nanotechnology, artificial intelligence etc. in the course curriculum along with increased emphasis on secondary agriculture. Enabling environment for effective teaching-learning with national and global linkages would need to be established. Agricultural Universities are concentrating mainly on formal education while there is also need for non-formal education especially in respect of knowledge and technological empowerment of vast section of work force in rural areas. yy Attracting and retaining talent As rural and agricultural markets are transforming, with higher demand and prices, more integrated supply chains, greater rural-urban connectivity in many areas and exponential growth in urban markets, new opportunities are emerging for young people to start up and run profitable agribusinesses which is possible when possessing range of agricultural as well as By 2035, achieving 50% Gross Enrolment Ratio (GER) in higher agricultural education including vocational education, All higher education institutions (HEIs) should aim to become multidisciplinary institutions by 2040. 14 financial skills and knowledge. yy Linkages and collaborations Interactions/ collaborations/ linkages with other universities, ICAR institutes and institutions like IITs and IIMs are almost missing which impinges upon the teaching- learning process as well as the academic environment in the institution. It is important to maintain regular university- alumni interface. Greater linkages at national and international levels are required for improving the quality assurance mechanism and process, faculty and student competence, etc. yy Digital Education Improvement and expansion of e-learning platforms to meet the demand for formal/ informal education for capacity building.