 In the aquaculture sector, there is a need for the development of breeding and seed rearing protocols for new candidate species including the development of Broodstock Multiplication Centres (BMC) and Nuclear Multiplication Centres (NMC), sustainable intensification, nursery integration, development of suitable feeds for complete life cycle and cost-effective inputs, and surveillance and disease predictability. Modern high-input farming practices viz., RAS, biofloc, AI-based smart farming, etc. offer considerable scope to boost aquaculture production and therefore need special R&D focus. The programmes on selective breeding in important fish/shellfish species for traits such as growth and disease resistance need a special thrust. Development of cost-effective functional feeds using amino acid balancing and nutrigenomics, tailor-made cost-effective feeds, and live feeds are essential to utilize the production potential of the existing and new candidate species. Comprehensive disease control and health management programmes on existing and emerging diseases, surveillance, biosecurity, and packages for fish health management are essential to keep pace with the emerging needs of the aquaculture domain. The genetic and biotechnological interventions including genetic manipulation by CRISPR- Cas9 has immense potential in improving the commercial traits of ornamental and food fishes. Bioprospecting for the development of nutraceuticals and cosmetics from marine flora and fauna, bioremediation and bio-monitoring for ensuring sustainable production environments are other areas of importance. Recent research developments indicate the possibility of exploring in vitro techniques for fish meat production. Intensification of mariculture is another promising option to meet the growing seafood demand. Research breakthroughs in the areas of captive breeding and mass production of some prioritized high-value marine fish species along with success in open sea cage farming in coastal waters have opened new vistas for enhancing marine fish production. However, it is important to identify and characterize suitable areas for mariculture, formulate suitable leasing policies for sea farming in large cages (>30 m dia), develop quality seed and feed production facilities, and strengthen value chains. Similarly, massive amounts of data accumulated during the aquaculture process could be digitized or appropriate ways devised to use them as inputs to decision-making processes. Mass culture of marine microalgae as a vegetarian source of PUFA for human consumption, and extraction of fish oil, valuable nutraceuticals and bioactive molecules have immense potential. Seaweed cultivation in India is being undertaken in near-shore waters, and to overcome inshore challenges its expansion to offshore areas is a suitable option. In the vegetative propagation of seaweed, a large amount of harvested material needs to be used during the seeding process.