  Matching agro technologies for higher yield in pulses (new agro-chemicals, post emergence herbicides, micro-irrigation and resource conservation technologies)  Promotion of mungbean as a Spring & Summer crop  Introduction of pulses (early pigeonpea) in soybean-wheat & cotton-wheat cropping system 29 Crop Science 29  Pulses as intercrop in cropping systems under rainfed/ dryland systems  Promotion of pulses (Lentil, chickpea and fieldpea) under rice fallow  Production of 466950.0 q Quality seed of pulse crop (last 4 years) under seed hub programme. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders  Production of quality seeds of varieties developed by institute  Development of mobile apps and other web based expert systems for various stakeholders. Chickpea (IPCK 2002-29) Pigeonpea (IPA 203) Climate resilient short duration varieties of pulse crops for newer niches 30 ICAR Institutes Profile 30 ICAR-Indian Institute of Rice Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR- IIRR, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad 500030, TS. ii. Name of the Director : Dr R M Sundaram iii. Email address : director.iirr@icar.gov.in Phone No.: 040-24591216/218 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research for enhancing rice productivity under irrigated ecosystem. • Coordination of multi-location testing to develop location specific varieties and technologies for various ecosystems. • Dissemination of technologies, capacity building and establishing linkages. 3. Salient achievements • A total of 1436 rice varieties including 127 hybrids have been released to date for various ecologies across the country through All India Coordinated Rice improvement programme. • First BLB resistant “Improved Samba Mashuri” was developed through MAS. • IIRR has developed a rapid and reliable assay for assessment of purity of seed-lots of rice hybrids and CMS lines and a rapid diagnostic kit for Rice Tungro virus and artificial screening technique for false smut under glass house and field conditions • Developed genome edited lines of Samba Mahsuri (Gn1a) with increased grain number (350-500). • An efficient 8 row drum seeder, ridding type drum seeder, pot pudler have been designed and developed for saving labour, time and water. • Novel concept of trap crop for yellow stem borer management developed and Ecological engineering for control of insect pests. • Value added products like Rice Riche Pain Relieving Gel, Rice Riche Moisturizing Lotion, Rice Riche Cream for Dry and Cracked heel and Rice based face scrub which keeps skin smooth, soft and moist developed. • Developed Rice Knowledge Management Portal (www.rkmp.co.in) which is the largest repository of knowledge on any single crop (rice). • Water saving technologies, Integrated pest management, Integrated Nutrient management packages were developed for rice ecologies. 31 Crop Science 31 4.