 Wilt, root rot and collar rot (Fusarium oxysporum and Rhizoctonia solani) Wilt attacks young plants. The affected plants show yellow-orange internal discolouration in the lower internodes. Diseased plants appear unthrifty, variously dwarfed depending upon the severity of infection, and may wilt and die. Seed treatment with Talc based formulation of Pseudomonas fluorescens @ 15 g per kg seed before sowing is effective. Avoid early sowing in infested areas. Rust (Uromyces viciae fabae) During December-January, yellow and reddish brown coloured raised pustules appeared on the ventral leaf surface. Rust is more serious in the late sown crop. Remove and destroy weed host plants of this disease (especially Rewari). For controlling powdery mildew and rust together, Sulfex @ 200 g can be sprayed in combination with Indofil M-45 @ 400 g per acre White rot (Sclerotinia sclerotiorum) Irregular water soaked spots on leaves, stem and pods appear. Symptoms are more frequent on pods which turn papery brown in colour in the later stage. White mycelial growth appears on the infected portion under wet and cool weather. Black hard sclerotial bodies embeded in mycelium are formed within the pods. The disease is high at flowering and pod formation stage. Avoid pea crop sowing in fields where susceptible crops like brinjal, cauliflower, carrot are sown. Go for crop rotation with non-host crops like tomato and chilli. This will help in reducing the disease spread. All left over crop debris should be collected and burnt. May–June 2021 31 Priyanka Suryavanshi* and Dipender Kumar Livelihood security of small and marginal farmers through Ocimum cultivation In view of achieving the target of doubling farmers income by March 2022, there is a need to identify crops and varieties that may suit resource poor farmers. Introduction, adaption and acceptance of new crops, varieties and latest technical knowhow for crop production can potentially strengthen farmers’ cropping systems by increasing yields, improving drought resilience and also by capturing new market opportunities. In this context, ocimum cultivation may be adopted by small and marginal farmers of India. It is a miracle plant which is valued for its medicinal properties. It has been harvested for use in Ayurveda treatments for 5,000 years and is known as the ‘Queen of Herbs’. Essential oil of ocimum is widely used in perfumery, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals and confectionary industries. Farmers may adopt ocimum cultivativation in rainfed areas in Kharif season as it requires lower input and gives better returns, thus it has the potential of enhancing farmers income. Technology T HE aromatic plants belonging to genus Ocimum is popularly known by the name Basil. Basil was derived from greek word ‘Basilica’ which means royal plant. Basil is an excellent shrub and known as the ‘queen of herbs’. It belongs to the family of ‘Lamiacea’.