 It can deliver optimum amount of anesthetic solution with desired flow over the gills through buccal cavity. Two qRT- PCR assays targeting TiLV genome segments 1 and 10 were standardized and employed to determine the viral load in liver, brain and spleen tissues of experimentally- infected tilapia. The assays detected higher viral load in liver than that determined in spleen and brain at all-time points post-infection. The study revealed an increasing trend in the viral load in the early stages of infection and a steady decline in the later stages. Further, the newly designed real-time PCR assay targeting TiLV genome segment 10 showed high sensitivity and can be used for the reliable detection of the virus.The four models of technology delivery through FPO were developed for seed production, vegetable production, organic farming and natural resource management for eastern region of India. The communication pattern of FPO and Non-FPO farmers was assessed through Social Network Analysis. The cohesiveness, sparsity and degree of influence of FPO were better than non-FPO farmers. An android mobile application-CIBA ShrimpKrishiApp was developed and launched for handholding the shrimp farmers to make real-time based informed decisions at farm level. The app is free and available in four languages, viz. English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Information, Communication and Publicity Services: The SPARROW, an online system for Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) of non- scientific ICAR employees introduced in 2022 forfilling, submission, reporting and reviewing of APAR. Similarly, eHRMS, ICAR eOffice, ICAR DARPANDashboard, Land Record Management Information System, KISAN SARATHI, NePPA, etc have been developed for facilitating the official work. Media and Information Unit assists in press coverage and public relations, showcasing the ICAR technologies through national and international exhibitions and production of documentary films. The Unit prepares and release of advertisements through print and electronic media. During the year, four documentary films were produced namely ICAR Technologies, ICAR at a Glance, ICAR Achievements and C. Subramanium Convention Hall. About 51 exhibitions were conducted in different states which included Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Jharkhand, Delhi, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Kerala, Assam, Meghalaya, West Bengal, Odisha, Bihar, Punjab and Jammu and Kashmir and India International Trade Fair. Exhibitions were Overview icar annual report 2022-23 13 also organised in 68 institutes of ICAR. The Information and Publicity Unit under DKMA took the initiative in preparation of Concept note on International Year of Millets 2023 for participation of ICAR through tableau in Republic Day Parade which has been accepted. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development: During the period under reporting, 7 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs in the country to 731.