 Keywords: Erra Jonna, chalka, black soil fodder This crop is grown in shallow black soil under limited moisture conditions, which attains maturity in 150 days. It gives a grain yield of 1.3 tonnes/ha with moderate fodder yield. The chapati prepared of this grain is tasty and soft. Keywords: Rabi Erra Jonna, chapati This crop can be grown in black soils under little residual moisture. It gives yield of 100 kg/ha. This is used for preparing popcorn. Key words: Pyalala Jonna, popcorn Kangani, a minor millet, is one of the important cash crops. Farmers of Jhadol village in Udaipur district of Rajasthan propagate kangani by two methods. In small area seeds are broadcast. For better yield it is cultivated through raising of seedlings and transplanted in the fields where water does not stand. In traditional Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Shri Bheekha Ram, S/o Shri Dhara Ram Luhar, Kantharia, Jhadol, Dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan); and Shri Trilok Ram, S/o Shri Kaloo ji Prajapat, Kantharia, Jhadol, Dist. Udaipur Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2797 Cultivation of Telia Korra (white) foxtail millet 2798 Cultivation of Mamchu Korra foxtail millet method of raising seedlings, field is ploughed and seed @ 2.5 kg/ha is broadcast, and after planking it is left. The seedling grows to 6-9 inches height within 20-30 days of sowing. Kanganis is also taken following green-manuring with sunnhemp. Just after rainfall in July, sunnhemp seeds are sown. At flowering stage it is being ploughed in field 2-3 times. Around raksha bandhan (August), kangani seedlings (6-9 inches) are transplanted in the field. Hoeing is done 8-10 days after transplanting. The crop matures after 75 days of transplanting. Under normal condition 10-12 q/ha grains are obtained, which are being sold in the market @ Rs 10- 12/kg. Kangani is consumed as ethnic food during fasting—as laddoo, pudi and halva etc. Keywords: kangani, green-manure, sunnhemp This coarse-grain crop is grown successfully in degraded red chalka and black soils of district Medak in Andhra Pradesh. It requires good rains during milking and grain filling stages. It yields about 2.5 tonnes grain and produces 2,500-3,000 bundles of fodder per hectare. The ambali prepared from its grain reduces cold and also body pains, if taken along with aonla. It is a good appetizer and has good taste. This variety is tolerant to insects and pests. Keywords: Telia Korra, ambali, aonla, chalka, black soil, pest tolerance This crop is grown in red and black soils of Telangana zone of Andhra Pradesh. It produces 2 tonnes grain and 2,000-2,500 bundles of fodder per (Rajasthan) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist.