 Farm Electrification: The use of electricity as a power sources for lighting, comfort in living, farm production and processing. Planning the Farmstead Distribution system:- Demand load for Farm Buildings, Central Metering and distribution, Capacity of main service selecting feeder conductors. Electric central and circuit protection. Electric motors: Motor rating and selection, measurement of motor characteristics. Standby Power Units: Purpose and importance, stand - by generator type selection, maintenance and operation. Residue and effluent management: Handling of solid and liquid by-products, characterization, physical/chemical/biological/ biotechnological/ nanotechnology approaches for their treatment and/or utilization. Biological and chemical oxygen demand of effluents. Unit 9: Handling, Packaging and Transportation Bulk handling of food grains-Bulk conveying equipments viz. belt conveyors, screw/auger conveyors, bucket elevators and drag/chain conveyors. Estimation of energy requirement and damage to biomaterials during mechanical handling. Operation and maintenance of conveying equipments. Packaging requirements, techniques and equipment for liquid, powder and granular biomaterials and horticultural produce. Types of packaging material, barrier properties, CFB boxes, Modified atmosphere packaging, controlled atmosphere packaging, Nano-composite packaging, Smart and active packaging, Edible films, Antioxidant and antimicrobial packaging, RFID, Time and temperature indicators, Micro and nano-encapsulation. Transportation of agro-produce by bullock carts, trailers, trucks, rail wagons and containers. Cold chain design and operation. Refrigerated containers and trucks for perishable foods. Damage and losses during transportation. Unit 10: Instrumentation and Process Control Static and dynamic characteristics of instruments, Transducers elements, intermediate elements, indicating and recording elements. Measurement of motion, force, torque, power, temperature, humidity, pressure and flow. Physical and chemical sensors, biosensors, Fuzzy logic, neural networks and control. Monitoring of plant parameters through Internet, Programmable logic controller, Data loggers, Data Acquisition Systems (DAS). Introduction to Direct Digital Control (DDC), Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition Systems (SCADA), and Virtual Instrumentation. 9.3 LAND AND WATER MANAGEMENT ENGINEERING Unit 1: Groundwater Development, Wells and Pumps Water resources of India. Present status of development and utilization of water resources of India and scope for additional use. Irrigation potential and contribution of groundwater, scope of groundwater development. Application of groundwater models for groundwater development and management. Aquifer types and parameters. Principles of groundwater flow, interaction between surface and groundwater, natural and artificial groundwater recharge. Salt water intrusion in inland and coastal aquifers. Groundwater exploration techniques.