 Keywords: Drip irrigation, Nursery, Plastic mulching, Staking, Vegetable crops U NDER Farmers FIRST Project (FFP) for effective resource conservation and productivity in vegetables in Pudur Mandal, Vikarabad district, Telangana, Good Horticultural Practices (GHP) encompasses some basic concepts and practices which can help farmers to be more productive, save time and energy and help maintain our natural resources. The typical farm production includes site selection, planting, irrigation, crop management, harvesting and storage. For implementation of GHP, there is need to identify easy adaptable, cost effective technologies at each stage of horticultural plant production process in a participatory way. GHP has evolved in recent years in the context of a rapidly changing and globalizing food economy and as a result of the concerns and commitments of a wide range of stakeholders about food production and security, food safety and quality and the environmental sustainability of agriculture. Presently, GHP Indian Farming 73 (05): 19-21; May 2023 is formally recognized in the international regulatory framework for reducing risks associated with the use of pesticides, taking into account public and occupational health, environmental and safety considerations. Considering the importance of GHP vegetable farmers should adopt it and minimize the risk of contamination, right from pre-planting stage to post-harvest stage of the crop. Four major technologies selected for interventions at the farmer’s field were: Plastic mulching with drip irrigation schedules, Pest control in vegetables, Vegetable nursery and staking in cucurbits and tomatoes. Plastic mulches with drip irrigation schedules Mulches are well known for modifying the energy and water balance at surface of soils and creating more favourable conditions for plant growth. This may include temperature moderation, soil conservation and weed control. Mulching modulates the micro- climate of the soil, preserve the moisture in area of root zone; there- by helping the optimum uptake of the water and available nutrients for better growth and efficient crop yield. Mulching is preferred in fruit orchard, flower and vegetable production and nurseries. Nowadays use of inorganic mulches became more popular due to their efficiency in weed control, less pest and disease problem, moisture conservation and increase water use efficiency; easy availability in market, durability, easy in mechanized agriculture, early growth and increased in potential yield of crops. Drip irrigation is the slow and frequent application of small amounts of water through emitters or tiny holes spaced along polyethylene tubing or tape.