 Suggestions for promotion of mango export There are over 1000 mango cultivars in India, but only a few have export potential. Importers' lack of knowledge or widespread publicity about the nutritional value, taste, and aroma of many locally cultivated mangoes is also a barrier to the export of such cultivars, and the variety that has an international market is limited to a few places in India. Trade fairs dedicated to organising Indian mango globalisation each year and inviting other countries to participate in them are therefore required. Due to the strong competition from other countries, especially Pakistan, Brazil, South America, and South Africa, there is a strong fight for distant US and UK mango markets. Compared to other exporting countries India has disadvantage of high transportation charges. Transportation charges for mangoes to distant markets reduce the profit in export. Therefore, sea transport protocols can significantly reduce the expenditure on transportation. Their is need for refinement of sea transportation protocol for mango. Pesticides used for managing pests and diseases may increase pesticide residue and, as a result, the shipment may be rejected or not accepted by countries that import mangoes. Use of recommended pesticides at the correct times and quantities may reduce pesticide residue. Farmers should employ pesticide load reducing technology (integrated pest management, washing with 2% salt water, hot water dip, bubble wash). Organically or pesticide residue free mango culture should be encouraged. The general support in this regard should be given to the adoption of "GAP". Thereby new markets can be opened for Indian mangoes. Concerted efforts are required for documentation and registration of farmers. Products shall be obtained from registered farmers to establish traceability in order to comply with importing nation standards. The lack of adequate implementation of farm-level post-harvest practises affects the shelf-life and quality of the product. For this purpose, farmers must undertake measures such as harvesting with mango harvesters at the right time and proper post-harvest management. Training and skill development in this area will improve post-harvest life of mango fruits. By 2021, the total number of mango packaging houses recognised by APEDA was just 48, which, compared with total mango area/production, was very low. As a result, in all mango growing regions, capacity and the number of modern packaging houses have to be increased. Mango is highly périshable and must be exported through airways, which raises the price on the international market of Indian mangoes and makes them costly or inexpensive for many countries. This should prioritise long sea shipping and extend the shelf-life of mango to at least 30 days. If the protocol for maritime transport is perfected, India can compete in the export of mango in addition to other countries.