 A total of 20,925 numbers of testing of soil, water, plant manures samples were identified all over India. Pulses seed-hubs: Seed-hubs have been set-up at 95 KVK for production of quality seeds of major pulse crops. During the year, 34,765.63 q seeds of pigeonpea, blackgram, greengram, lentil, chickpea, field pea and lathyrus were produced and made available to farmers. Crop Residue Management: The states of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, also known as the birthplace of the Indian Green Revolution, are the major contributors to the national food basket for paddy and wheat. Most of the farmers of these states generally resort to the burning of paddy straw in the field itself due to the short window (15–25 days) for the timely planting of ensuing crops. The enormous burning, that too within a span of 15 days, leads to atmospheric pollution problems, massive nutritional losses and deterioration of the physical and biological health of the soil. Keeping, this in view, the Government of India 2018 decided to launch a Central Sector Scheme on “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization for in situ management of crop residue in the States of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi”. The ICAR is entrusted to execute the Information, Education and Communication (IEC) component of this scheme through 60 KVKs of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. The different Information, Education and Communication (IEC) activities under crop residue management were carried out by 60 KVKs of Punjab, Haryana, Delhi and Uttar Pradesh. More than 64000 farmers participated in 669 awareness camps which were organized at different levels (district, block and village). Capacity building of 5,247 farmers, tractor and machine operators, and custom hiring centre owners developed by organising 197 training programmes of 5-day duration. More than one lakh farmers were mobilised in 113 Kisan Melas organized by KVKs on crop residue management theme. School and college students were recognised as prospective stakeholders to reach out to their farming parents, neighbours, and villagers to encourage them to use the latest agricultural residue management technology. There were many schools and colleges involved in creating awareness about crop residue In situ management and 49,098 students were sensitised by organising 308 activities like essay competition, painting, debate, etc. Demonstrations on crop residue management using CRM machinery organised at CASE STUDY View of exotic vegetable nursery and field Lilium flower field of Sh. Lal Singh and its post-harvest handling to make bundle of sticks for marketing Diversification through high-value exotic vegetable cultivation in the Kukumseri valley of Himachal Pradesh (KVK, Lahual and Spiti-I) Shri Lal Singh, a farmer from the Lahaul and Spiti district of Himachal Pradesh, has been cultivating various crops on his 3.20 ha of irrigated land. Despite his hard work, he struggled to obtain good returns.