 High temperature during harvest affects the quality of peas. Plant protection for winter vegetables For lepidopteron defoliator like diamond black moth, cabbage butterfly etc. farmers may use BT products and for the soil borne insects metarhizium products may be used at 7 days intervals for winter vegetables. Nursery bed treated with Trichoderma spp. For control of damping off disease. Use BT for management of caterpillar management at 7 days interval. Use soil solarisation technique for control of soil pest and weed. Spray Copper oxychloride@300gm + streptomycine @6 gm/150 lit of water for management of black rot. To control leaf spot and blight infection spray of Mancozeb @400 gm/ 150 litres of water at 15 days interval To control Broccoli white mold spray Metalaxyl + Mencozeb@2gm / ltr of water @ 10 days interval. For specific pest and disease incidence farmers need to be vigilant frequently and consult with the concerned departments and KVK. Livestock Poultry: Provide sufficient bedding materials to keep them warm. Provide adequate clean drinking water +electrolyte ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 254 Vaccination as per the schedule with proper consultation with vet. Provide anti-coccidial drugs. Make control of coccidiosis in poultry by treated with coccinil plus vet (Amprolium HCL, Ethopabate, sulphat quinoxaline & pyrimethamine promix.,B,P, Vet) the dose rate of 30g dissolved in 50 liters of drinking water for 7 days. Make sure for deworming of poultry chickens with albendazole at the dose rate of 20mg/kg orally. 30-40ml/100 birds in drinking water. Repeat after 21 days. Remove wet litter/provide artificial heating and light Piggery: Provide proper bedding materials for newly born piglets to protect them from cold Ensure vaccination of pig against swine fever at the age of 3 months old pig and repeat annually Deworm at regular interval. During scarcity of fodder provide hay/silage/feed blocks. Cattle Protect the newborn from cold. Make sure deworming of calves with albendazole 5mg/kg body weight repeat deworming once in 3-4 months. Store freshly cut paddy straw (To use as feed during lean months). Avoid dampness and keep dry all the cow shed area. Vaccination as per the schedule with proper consultation with vet. Goats Ensure deworming of goats (Albendazole @ 7.5 mg/kg body weight) especially young kids before the start of rainy season. Fisheries Don’t allow runoff water into the pond, it contains dust, microbes, ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 255 sand, derbies, which will pollute the water and cause disease outbreak. Sundry the pond bottom and plough thoroughly, then add limestone powder @ 60 kg/acre to maintain soil PH and release of gases as pre stocking management. In heavy rainy area, go for vegetable cultivation on pond dykes to avoid soil erosion.