 Development of new and improved strains of Kappaphycus through strain development and hybridization and through protoplast fusion techniques are envisaged for production of fast growing, productive, high- temperature-tolerant and fouling- and disease-resistant strains. Challenges faced by seaweed farming include difficulty in obtaining quality seed materials of native species such as Gracilaria dura, G. debilis especially after monsoon rains, natural calamities such as cyclonic weather and grazing by herbivores fishes. Import of high-yielding species/ varieties and establishment of seed banks for improving the availability of quality seed material to support farming activities may be given top priority. Meeting the requirement of seaweed products and augmenting self-sufficiency in production: The Indian requirement of agar and alginate is about 400 tonnes per annum and 1,000 tonnes per annum, whereas only 30% and less than 40% respectively of it has been produced indigenously. The Indian requirement of carrageenan is 1,500-2,000 tonnes per annum. The food sector accounts for nearly 70% of the world market for carrageenan. Taking the demand on agar, alginate and carrageenan, the total annual seaweed requirement in dry weight basis is 4,000 tonnes of agar yielding algae; 5,000 tonnes of alginate yielding algae and 4,500- 6,000 tonnes of carrageenan yielding algae. Hence to improve self sufficiency in seaweed-based products, large scale farming needs to be promoted. Policies and institutional support: Seaweed cultivation can be taken up by fishermen/fisherwomen co- operatives and self-help groups (SHGs) of the coastal areas. A minimum price for the farmed seaweeds and opening of marketing channels for seaweeds also should be considered before taking up large scale farming of seaweeds in the country. Promotion of seaweeds as healthy food for human consumption apart from its use as raw materials for the extraction of bioactive compounds and phyco-chemicals may also be attempted. National fisheries development agencies like NFDB can promote seaweed consumption through awareness campaigns and seaweed food festivals organised throughout the country. Hence, large scale mariculture of seaweeds which is a green technology for their nutraceuticals and other secondary metabolites is a dire necessity which can help mitigate major greenhouse gas and can check ocean acidification, while the seaweed farmers can make a living out of the harvest. Appropriate financing and insurance cover against crop losses due to natural calamities are also the need of the hour to further promote seaweed farming in Indian waters. More nutraceuticals and bio-active molecules from seaweeds: Considering the diversity of chemical constituents present in seaweeds that are capable of exerting wide range of bioactivities, a growing trend is developing across globe to include seaweeds in nutritional and biomedical applications.