 On the marketing front, although India is still a marketplace dominated by price sensitive consumers, chefs and institutions who know what ICAR stands for show an immediate acceptance for our premium products.’’ The company has recently launched a line of shelf stable retort line of pork curries representing the 8 states of the North East region. The new brand called “Just Oink” was launched by the Hon’ble Chief Minister of Meghalaya at the first North East Food Show with SIAL Paris. The company has also constructed the first community focused rural slaughterhouse. Both these were possible with technology standards developed by ICAR-NRC on Pig. It is noteworthy to mention here that ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig has recently signed an agreement with Arohan Foods to transfer the rural pig slaughterhouse technology in presence of Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Hon’ble Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR on 24th November, 2019. The company has also gone ahead and built community led brand stores to retail the hygienic meat produced from the brand stores. While the rural slaughterhouse and brand store format has just started, the company reports that farmers are getting up to 30% more realisation from this channel as compared to selling to traditional middlemen. The founders of the company have also pursued complimentary developmental avenues and have now established the brand as a leading solutions provider for all livestock and natural farming related activities. They have already developed an in house traceability solution with M&E capabilities. Arohan Foods has gone on to become an associate member of the Agriculture Skill Council of India. They are also founder members of the NEEA, North East Entrepreneur Alliance, with a reach across the North East and neighbouring regions. Arohan Foods Pvt Ltd is currently associated with the livelihood missions in North Eastern states towards sustainable piggery development and value chains projects. Corresponding author's e-mail: thomasr12@rediffmail.com. HANDBOOK OF INTEGRATED PEST MANAGEMENT To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered.