 Ornamental fisheries Ornamental fisheries sector in the country has a huge potential in terms of unique varieties of fishes with high ornamental value and the increasing number of aquarium hobbyists in the country particularly in the urban economy due to the remarkable intervention of the Government during the last decades, in form of policy and financial support under various schemes such as Centrally Sponsored Scheme- Blue revolution (CSS-BR, during 2015-20), Fisheries and Infrastructure Development Fund (FIDF-launched during 2018- 19), Kisan Credit Card (KCC) to fishers and Fish farmers. However, achieving Aatma Nirbhar in the Fishery sector in the country needs more focused attention on its various subsectors which are detailed below. Aquaculture of food fishes Presently, the Indian aquaculture is dependent on a few species of major carps and prawns, though there are a number of species in line for which the mass production methods are yet to be commercialized. Freshwater aquaculture is centered around the major carps, whereas the brackishwater aquaculture is almost synonymous to the shrimp aquaculture, exceptionally dominated by the exotic, Pacific white shrimp, Littopenaeus vannamei. The L. vannamei at present, contributes around 90% of the total cultured shrimp production in the country. Therefore, developmental strategies through PMMSY gives due attention towards diversification of aquaculture through indigenous varieties of finfish and shellfish species for furthering self- reliance in the farming sector. Apart from species diversification, scaling up of production is the need of the hour, which is another crucial aspect, that the government is looking for, through the focused interventions under PMMSY. Recent estimates show that, there is a gap of about 30-35% existing between the actual seed requirement and availability in the Indian aquaculture sector. PMMSY addresses the stumbling blocks in upscaling the fish production throughout the country by the establishment of adequate number of brood banks, hatcheries, seed rearing units, feed mills and ensuring indigenous production of specific pathogen-free/ resistant seed as well as genetically improved broodstock. Indian Farming November 2020 56 is envisaged to reach out to over 10 lakh fishers and farmers through web-based training and awareness in a fixed time frame. Towards this end, 150 Fisheries potential districts including all 77 coastal Districts are proposed for taking up in the first phase by drawing the expertise of ICAR- fisheries Institutes, KVKs and Fisheries Universities/ colleges.