 The issues of ownership should be sorted out and the respective ICAR Bureaus should also work out descriptor details for this mechanism. Action: All VCs/ All Directors of Bureaus Microorganisms: The SAUs should lay emphasis on the IPR on microorganisms and, wherever needed, transfer of critical bioagents in public domain to farmers be done. A national database of the proprietary and public information on microorganisms should be developed. Action: All VCs / Director, NBAIM Plant Germplasm Explorations and Management: It was agreed that a single window mechanism through NBPGR would be helpful. The Scientists / breeders of SAUs should undertake germplasm explorations only in consultation with NBPGR to avoid duplication of efforts or repetition of areas already explored and to ensure that the material collected is provided National Identity Number (IC) and a referral sample is also conserved in National Genebank for present and future use in NARS. The NBPGR should develop and issue detailed guidelines/instructions to this effect. A regular feedback for germplasm use must be ensured by all breeders/scientists of SAUs/ICAR institutes. Action: All VCs/ Director NBPGR/ All Directors/PDs of ICAR Molecular Genome Bank: The Biotechnology Units at all SAUs should contribute towards genebanking of national genomic resources Action: All VCs/ Director NBPGR Agenda 5: Filling up of the positions of AICRPs and KVKs The DDG (Eng) presented the agenda. He explained that a large number of scientific and non-scientific positions at most of the centers still remained vacant under All India Coordinated Research Projects of ICAR (AICRPs). Similar was the case under KVKs. The situation is seriously affecting the resultant output. It was decided that the latest vacancy position under AICRPs and KVKs is to be provided by all the universities in the format developed and circulated for the purpose. The vacant positions should not be kept vacant for long and the speedy action at appropriate level may be taken for filling of the vacant positions latest by June 2008, positively Action: All VCs/ DDG (Eng) Agenda 6: Rating of SAUs Director, NAARM presented the agenda. After a detailed discussion it was opined that there is an urgent need to develop an appropriate methodology for qualitative rating for SAUs and to assess qualitative rating in terms of inputs, output, commercial and social acceptance of its graduates, and competitiveness and career development of graduates globally. The performance assessment of AUs would be indicated by output, outcome and management assessment. A brainstorming workshop may be organized by NAARM in which AUs could deliberate on the appropriate benchmark indicators, their weightages and various parameters under each benchmark indicator. The parameters listed in the agenda can be enlarged or bunched or merged appropriately to suit the requirements of the rating of AUs.