 New technologies are introducing compelling opportunities to improve the precision and sustainability of farming techniques and create very meaningful improvements to the quality of life enjoyed by millions of people around the world. I am delighted that the Telecommunication Engineering Centre and Indian Council of Agricultural Research have prepared this Technical Report on Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming. Many of the contributors to this report are also contributors to our focus group. This technical report focuses on how digital agriculture integrates various technologies in areas like precision farming, drones, and data analytics to optimize agricultural production. The future of agriculture looks brighter every day. Let’s ensure that we take full advantage of innovations for digital agriculture by building consensus on the necessary international standards. Seizo Onoe Director of the Telecommunication Standardization Bureau Telecommunication Standardization Bureau Geneva, 12 March 2024 Tel: +41 22 730 5856 Fax: +41 22 730 5853 E-mail: tsbdir@itu.int Our planet is expected to host 9.7 billion people by 2050. Sustaining so many lives will demand significant technological progress. Advances in artificial intelligence (Al) and the Internet of Things (loT) will form a key part of this progress. ITU is committed to ensuring that the associated benefits are felt by everyone around the world. We share this commitment with the UN Food and Agricultural Organization. Together we support a focus group on Al and loT for digital agriculture working towards new ITU standards. New technologies are introducing compelling opportunities to improve the precision and sustainability of farming techniques and create very meaningful improvements to the quality of life enjoyed by millions of people around the world. | am delighted that the Telecommunication Engineering Centre and Indian Council of Agricultural Research have prepared this Technical Report on Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming. Many of the contributors to this report are also contributors to our focus group. This technical report focuses on how digital agriculture integrates various technologies in areas like precision farming, drones, and data analytics to optimize agricultural production. The future of agriculture looks brighter every day. Let’s ensure that we take full advantage of innovations for digital agriculture by building consensus on the necessary international standards. [ “| se yf ery? Seizo Onoe Director of the Telecommunication Standardization Bureau International Telecommunication Union e Place des Nations, CH-1211 Geneva 20, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 730 5852 ¢ E-mail: tsbmail@itu.int ¢ Fax: +41 22 730 5785 e https://www.itu.int/en/ITU-T ST PAT AE, 1.38.