 Singh, Department of Pathology and Dr Himanshu, Assistant Professor and Dr Vinod Kumar, Teaching Assistant, Department of Surgery, College of Veterinary Sciences, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Ch. Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Viswavidyalaya (CSKHPKV) Dr A.C. Varshney, Professor and Head, Dr S.P Tyagi, Assistant Professor, Dr S.K. Sharma, Associate Professor and Dr Adarsh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) 176 062 METHODOLOGY Experiment CSKHPKV The study was conducted at Palampur during 2004 on six adult healthy mongrel dogs of either sex weighing 15-20 kg divided into two equal groups. The first group (A) was kept as control, whereas the second group (B) served as test group. Prior to the start of experiment the animals were acclimatized in college kennels as per standard practice. The animals were dewormed with Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. (a) Harjore {Cissus quadrangularis) plant; (b) incision site of operation; (c) osteotomy of ulna; (d) fracture line in ulna after osteotomy (arrow); (e) closure of surgical site; (f) cannulation of brachial artery for angiography; (g) external co-optation by PoP cast Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE suspension albendazole (Albomar, Agrivet India Ltd) @ 10 mg/kg body weight orally and vaccinated prophylactically against rabies by injecting Rakhsharab (Indian-immunologicafs-) @ 1 ml/animal given subcutaneously. All the animals were maintained on standard and uniform diet during the entire course of study. Creation of fracture: All the animals were prepared for aseptic surgery routinely. They were anaesthetized by xylazine and ketamine @ 2 and 10 mg/kg body weight respectively, given intramuscularly 15 min. after subcutaneous injection of atropine @ 0.045 mg/kg. The left ulnar bones of all the animals were subjected to diaphyseal fracture by osteotomy done with the help of giggly wire saw, chisel and hammer (Fig. 1 B, C and D). After the creation of fractures, the surgical wounds were closed routinely (Fig. le). Preparation o/harjore paste or ointment: The harjore (Cissus quadrangularis) plant stems were collected and completely dried in oven. These were finely ground in a grinder to form powder. Then 20 g of this powder was used for one application per animal. Just before application the powder was mixed with sufficient quantity of liquid paraffin to form a paste. Application technique: The paste thus prepared was applied on the skin around the fractured limb and covered with a layer of cotton bandage in the animals of group B. The fractured limbs were then stabilized suitably by means of a bi-valved plaster of paris full-limb cast and secured with adhesive tape and bandages. The harjore paste was reapplied at every 4 days interval till 20 days after operation.