 The irrigation intensity (ha) was estimated as the ratio of the total-irrigated area to culturable command area (CCA), i.e., ii = Total irrigated area CCA However, due to the absence of CCA in any database, we used gross cropped area (GCA) as a proxy of CCA. So, the adjusted formula is as follows: ii = Total irrigated area GCA We took the total-irrigated area from the CMIE database. d. Fertiliser Intensity (ﬁ) Fertilizer consumption is an important factor in crop diversiﬁcation. Fertilizer con- sumption and consumption of pesticides, seeds, and agricultural credits have positive impacts on crop diversiﬁcation [14]. Another study discovered that, while fertilizer use promotes diversity in other states, it is detrimental in eastern India [31]. Accordingly, fertilizer intensity was considered for the present study. Fertilizer intensity (kgs. /ha) is the ratio of total fertilizer use to the gross cropped area, i.e., ﬁ= Total fertiliser use (kg) GCA We took the data of total fertilizer use (kgs) from the CMIE database. e. Rainfall deviation (rainndev): Climatic conditions are always an important factor for agricultural practices. After 70 years of independence, Indian agriculture still depends upon climatic conditions, such as rainfall, snowfall. However, unfavorable climatic conditions or the vulnerability of climatic conditions has played a crucial role in crop diversiﬁcation [18]. The rainfall variation was used as a proxy for climatic conditions in the study. Rainfall is one of the most important factors of crop diversity. However, it can be assumed that if rainfall falls outside of typical ranges, it would have a negative inﬂuence on productivity [23]. Low rainfall affects staple crops, resulting in signiﬁcant variations between crops due to the weather–yield link [32]. However, the fact that greater crop diversity leads to improved production opportunities during periods of low rainfall suggests that diversiﬁcation is associated with greater resilience. The rainfall-deviation data has been gathered from the CMIE database. f. Total road (troad) Previously, most of the studies took the rural-road infrastructure as an important determinant for crop diversiﬁcation. The rural-road infrastructure includes all types of Sustainability 2022, 14, 16861 5 of 18 roads in the rural areas, which excludes national highways and state highways. Crop diversiﬁcation can be aided by improved rural-transportation infrastructure [33]. Instead of considering the length of rural roads, we decided that the total number of roads is a key element in crop diversiﬁcation. Because there are some places or districts of many states that are adjacent to other states. Farmers of a region may sell their products to other states due to proximity to the marketplace or Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC) market. Therefore, they access state highways or national highways to send their products to the market.