 The flowers are arranged on the branched and clustered panicles that range in length from 10 to 45 cm. A single tree can have between 200 and 3,000 panicles, each with 500 to 10,000 flowers. A significant proportion (30–80%) of flowers are imperfect or staminate (i.e. lacking a style and therefore incapable of being fertilized). Flowers in their ideal state have a globular ovary and lateral style, as well as one to three functional stamens. As compared to staminate flowers, white flowers are too less in number. Only a small percentage of perfect flowers bear fruit (zero to three per panicle). The fragrant flowers open early in the morning, immediately produce nectar and are pollination- receptive. Pollen shedding occurs slightly later, peaking between 8 AM and noon. Numerous pollinators visit the flowers, including flies, wasps, wild and domesticated bees, butterflies, moths, beetles, ants, and bugs. Despite this prominent visitation, early reports indicated that mangoes were pollinated by wind. While some of the disagreements centre on cultivar differences, the several evidence indicate that insect pollinators, in particular, play a critical role. Insect mediated pollination in mango The mango’s ability to attract insects by producing nectar also indicates that it is entomophilous. Mango flowers are unspecialized, allowing most insects to pollinate them. These pollinators are necessary for the fruit set to be successful. Flies, wasps, bees, butterflies, moths, beetles, ants, and other bugs visit mango flowers to drink the nectar, and some of them transfer pollen, but there is some self-pollination as well. According to observations, the most important floral visitors are Diptera (Syrphid flies and house flies), Hymenoptera (Honeybees, stingless bees, bumblebees, solitary bees, and other non-apis bees), Lepidoptera (Moths and Butterflies), and Coleoptera (Beetles). In India, researchers looked into the types and biology of mango pollinators and discovered that Diptera and Hymenoptera insects play a significant role in mango Table 1. Diversity of the insect visitors/pollinators on mango flowers at Lucknow Common name Scientific Name Order: Family Little honey bee Apis florea Fab. Hymenoptera : Apidae Stingless bee Tetragonula iridipennis Smith Hymenoptera: Apidae Giant honey bee Apis dorsata Fab. Hymenoptera : Apidae Indian honey bee Apis cerana indica Fab. Hymenoptera : Apidae European honey bee Apis mellifera L. Hymenoptera : Apidae Blowflies Chrysomya sp. Diptera: Calliphoridae Syrphid fly Syrphus corollae Fab. Diptera: Syrphidae Syrphid fly Eristalinus sp. Diptera: Syrphidae Housefly Musca domestica L. Diptera: Muscidae Wasp Vespula orientalis L. Hymenoptera : Vespidae Indian Horticulture 36 pollination. Insects are thought to play a 53% role in mango fruit sets. The removal of flying and crawling flower visitors from mango panicles reduced fruit set by 79%.