 Disinfection protocol for cattle sheds yy Under normal circumstances, daily scrubbing and washing of the floors, water troughs and mangers and the action of sunlight falling in the houses are sufficient enough to keep them moderately germ free. This should be supplemented with periodic white washing of the walls, mangers and troughs. yy When there is a disease outbreak, a more elaborate procedure of disinfection should be followed. All floors, walls up to the height of 1.5 m, interior of water trough, mangers, other fittings and equipment coming in contact with animals should be disinfected. yy The first step is to remove all the filth and feed residue. All dung, litter, feed residue should be removed and stacked so that the heat generated inside kills the germs. The floors, walls up to 1.5 m height, interior of mangers and water trough etc. are thoroughly scrubbed and washed with water. yy In case of outbreak of anthrax, the dung, litter etc. should first be disinfected in situ by thorough sprinkling of suitable disinfectant. If the floor is of earth, the top 10 cm earth should be removed and disposed of along with litter. After removal of filth, the place should be scrubbed and washed with 4 % hot washing soda solution (i.e., 4 kg washing soda in 100 litre of boiling water). The approved disinfectant solution should be liberally sprinkled or sprayed and left so to act for 24 hours. After this, the shed should be washed with clean water and left to dry with wind and sunlight. yy The interiors of water troughs, mangers etc. should be white washed. The house is fit for moving in the animals. Disinfestation protocol Disinfestation comprises eliminating sources of parasitic infection, preventing animals from getting access to possible sources of infestations and elimination of 33 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS intermediate hosts. The following protocol may be followed for the disinfestation of gaushal premises. yy Prompt and proper disposal of manure and other filth from the gaushala premises. yy Regular scrubbing and cleaning of feed and water troughs as well as white washing their interior at least once in a week. yy Levelling up all ditches, low muddy areas, pits etc. in and around animal houses so that water may not stagnate in them. yy Filling up or fencing of all stagnant water pools, ponds etc. around the gaushala and on grazing areas so that animals may not get access to them. yy Housing animals in clean houses with paved floors. Animals of different ages should be housed separately. Younger animals should never be mixed with older ones. Animals of same age should be managed as a single, closed community. yy Proper deworming of all such animals before putting them in a shed or bringing them into the gaushala. yy If grazing is practised-division of pasture into several blocks and practising rotational grazing in these blocks. yy Preventing humans from defecating on grazing fields as this may cause contamination with tapeworm eggs.