 Drones enhance spraying capacity up to five times faster than traditional machinery. Crop monitoring: Crop monitoring is the biggest headache not only for farmers but also for various other stakeholders associated with agriculture operations. This challenge has also gotten worse with the rise of unpredictable weather patterns, which lead to rising crop loss risks and maintenance costs. Drones can be used to set monitoring routes by gathering multispectral geospatial and temporal datasets at pre-defined scales that relate to crop development. Data analytics help in getting insights on crop health much before being visible by manual field scouting. Crop surveillance: It is nearly impossible to estimate the overall state of crops in large fields. Agricultural mapping using drones can help farmers stay updated on the status of their plants and identify the areas of the fields that require attention. Drones equipped with infrared cameras can inspect the fields and estimate the state of crops based on their light absorption rates. With accurate real-time information, farmers can take necessary measures to improve the health of crops in any spot of the field. This crop surveillance and health assessment feature of drones also forms the basis of using them to enhance agricultural insurance tools for cross-verifying farmers’ insurance claims. However, financial implications vis-a-vis the insurance model adopted and practical possibilities will decide the future potential use. Indian Farming In the crop insurance scheme, Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) of the Government of India, crop yield estimation at the lowest specified administrative level is considered the most important indicator for deciding insurance claims. For crop yield estimation, the well-established methodology of crop cutting experiments (CCE) has been in use so far, to evaluate and validate a large number of pilot studies carried out in different parts of the country. Financial assistance The Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has issued guidelines to make drone technology affordable to the stakeholders in a major boost to promote precision farming in India. The ICAR, New Delhi had approved various State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) and ICAR Institutions for allocation of funds for the purchase of drones and demonstrations during 2022-23. To provide agricultural services through drone application, financial assistance @ 40% of the basic cost of the drone and its attachments or % 4 lakhs, whichever is less is also provided for drone purchase by existing and new Custom Hiring Centers (CHCs) under Cooperative Society of Farmers, Farmers Producer Organizations (FPOs) and rural entrepreneurs. The agriculture graduates establishing CHCs are eligible to receive financial assistance @ 50% of the cost of a drone up to a maximum of & 5.00 lakhs.