 The main features of the variety include mean weighted seed yield of 1,549 kg/ha, besides resistant/moderately resistant to Fusarium wilt, dry-root rot, collar rot and stunt. Research work under various ICAR-AICRPs, viz. on Chickpea, and Rapeseed–mustard, aside from voluntary trials in the purview of AICRP-Maize, Barley, Pearl millet, MULLaRP and Sesame and Niger were undertaken towards enhancing productivity and production of these crops through development of high- yielding, multiple disease-resistant varieties for central India. Water absorption capacity of Desi and Kabuli chickpea cultivars showed wide variations among the respective groups. The mean per cent water absorption capacity of Desi and kabuli chickpea cultivars was 90.6 and 92.7, respectively. Seedling vigour showed wide variations from 0.46–4.34 cm in Desi group and 0.48–2.95 cm in Kabuli group, with a mean of 1.64 cm and 1.60 cm, respectively. A set of 82 indigenous wheat germplasm lines, released varieties, and genetic stocks was also evaluated for different agro-morphological characters and biotic stresses. A coordinated germplasm nursery of wheat (Elite International Germplasm Nursery, EIGN) with 91 germplasm lines, was evaluated. Fifteen promising wheat genotypes were identified from EIGN based on yield and chlorophyll content. The sowing techniques for green gram were standardized to promote line sowing for increasing crop productivity and input- use efficiency. Time taken by different sowing machines was the lowest for zero-till ferti-seed drill, i.e. 4 h/ha, whereas it was maximum under farmer’s practice (6.5 h/ha). Similarly, seed yield obtained under the Infrastructure development Shri Narendra Modi, Prime Minister of India dedicated the newly constructed Academic and Administrative buildings virtually to the nation on 29 August 2020. After the inauguration, the Prime Minister interacted with university students and asked about ways to address certain challenges like reducing import of edible oils and increasing food processing, especially in fruits and vegetables. During the interaction, the Prime Minister stressed on promoting recycling of water and rainwater harvesting through innovative and less costly technology in the region. Sri Narendra Singh Tomar, Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India laid the foundation of College of Veterinary and Animal Science and College of Fisheries at Datia campus of Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi on 27 September 2020. PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 172 conventional method was 22.4–33.3% lower (542 kg/ ha) as compared to other techniques. A study on diversity of various insect pollinators on mustard during blooming period showed that insect species belonged to orders Diptera, Hymenoptera and Coleoptera. Among these the syrphids (order Diptera) were most dominating. Performance of different cultivars of pomegranate, viz.