 In response, a progressive partner farmer, Shri Ranbir Singh from Khadra village in Fatehpur district, under the Farmer FIRST Programme, experimented with both the traditional (broadcasting) and improved (line sowing) Broadcasting method Line sowing method Indian Farming 50 October 2024 methods for the long-duration pigeon pea variety IPA 203 as part of an on-farm intervention. In both the broadcasted and line-sown experimental plots of 0.16 ha each, sowing was done on the same day (July 7, 2023). The line sowing method required less seed (1.6 kg) compared to broadcasting (2 kg) for the same land area, thus saving on seed costs. Shri Ranbir Singh found that in line-sown pigeon pea plot, monitoring insect-pest incidences was easier, which led to an additional spray of insecticide (Emamectin Benzoate 5% SG) at the right stage of infestation. With differences in sowing and insecticide costs, the total operational expenses were `8,153 in the line-sown plot compared to `7,633 in the broadcast plot. The line sowing technique, combined with additional insecticide sprays, yielded 4.53 quintals of pigeon pea, resulting in an additional 1.03 quintals over the broadcasting method. Consequently, the net return increased by 36% in the line sowing technique (`37,147) compared to broadcasting (`27,367). Thus, with an additional cost of `520, Shri Ranbir Singh gained an extra net return of `9,780 by using improved production technologies (line sowing and timely plant protection measures). His successful on-farm experimentation proved the superiority of improved production technologies over traditional methods, attracting fellow farmers to adopt the same in the future. Successful experiences with interventions in wheat, chickpea, and lentil The Farmer FIRST Programme adopts a holistic approach with multiple technological interventions to enhance food, nutrition, and livelihood security for rural households. Following successful outcomes in Fatehpur district, the program has been extended to Hamirpur district, specifically in the villages of Kanauta Danda, Gimuha, and Badanpur of the Kurara block, starting from September 2023. A baseline survey conducted in these adopted villages revealed the prevalence of non-descript varieties of chickpea, lentil, and outdated wheat varieties (e.g., HW 147) under cultivation. Additionally, a lack of awareness about insect and disease management was noted, which contributed to suboptimal yields in pulses. To address this, technological interventions were implemented, introducing improved chickpea (var. IPC 06-77) and lentil (var. IPL 315) varieties across 7.8 ha and 1.67 ha, respectively, in partnership with 47 farmers. These improved chickpea and lentil varieties resulted in yield enhancements of 4.86 q/ha and 3.88 q/ha, respectively, in demonstration fields, compared to control fields yielding 10.40 q/ha and 8.41 q/ha, respectively.