 • Developed three interspecific somatic hybrids of potato Solanum tuberosum dihaploid C-13 (+) S. pinnatisectum and C-13 (+) S. cardiophyllum for late blight resistance; and C-13 (+) S. etuberosum for Potato Virus Y (PVY) resistance through protoplast fusion to overcome the sexual barriers. • Developed advanced hybrids (LBY-15 and LBY-17) having combined resistance to late blight and PVY were developed through marker-assisted breeding. • Identified potato genotypes having multiple resistance genes of late blight (R1&R3), PVY (Ryadg) & cyst nematodes (HC, H1 & Gro1) using molecular markers. • Developed transgenic potatoes with important traits, viz. durable resistance to late blight, reduction of cold-induced sweetening, high protein content, resistance to PVY, potato apical leaf curl virus, potato tuber moth, and dwarf plant architecture. • More than 20 genes/promoters coding for important traits have been cloned for use in genetic transformation studies. • Developed and standardised virus detection and diagnostic techniques including dipstick assay for all important viruses. • Replaced hazardous organomercurials chemical with the safe boric acid (3%) in seed treatment to check soil and tuber borne diseases. • Developed IPM for management of all important diseases and pests. Indian Horticulture 12 P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s V K Gupta, S K Luthra and Vinay Bhardwaj Potato processing varieties in India P OTATOES are considered as a non-fattening, nutritious and wholesome food, which supply important nutrients to the human diet. Potatoes are either consumed directly or can be processed to give products such as chips and French fries, flakes, mashed and canned potatoes. From last two decades, there has been paradigm shift in food habit and also due to fast growth in urban population, the demand of potato based ready to eatsnacks/products has increased many folds. Further, there is a rising demand for quality processed potato products from the country particularly in Middle East. Countries like Japan, Singapore, Korea and Malaysia also have a great demand for processed potato products as well as fresh potato for processing purpose. Thus, potato processing has opened a new dimension for development of agro based industries in the country. Industry is gradually expanding its capacity in various potato based locally and internationally accepted products. India utilizes only 7.5% of the total production for processing as against 30-67% in leading potato-processing nations such as the USA, Canada and Europe. Moreover, processing sector is fast growing and it is expected that the demand for this sector will increase to 25 million tonnes by 2050. To meet this challenge, round the year availability of good quality potatoes as raw material is one of the basic needs of the industry.