5 lakhs. (The expenses will include rental changes for space, fabrication work in the pavilion, designing and printing of posters, arranging specific models or live material, transport and other miscellaneous items.) 2. The Committees will work on the basis of guidelines and checklist developed for this purpose. The Check List is appended separately as Annexure VIII. i) Committee for Regional level exhibitions will comprise of the following: Chairman: Project Director, DKMA Member: Director, ATARI of relevant region Member: Deputy Secretary (GAC) Member: Under Secretary (DKMA) Member: Business Manager, (DKMA) Member Secretary: CP&PRO, ICAR ii) Committee for National/International and Special Events: Chairman: Deputy Director General (Ag.Extn.) Member: Assistant Director General (TC) GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 36 Member: Assistant Director General (IR) Member: Assistant Director General (Ag.Extn.) Member: Director (Finance) Member: Addl. Commissioner (Extn.), DAC&FW Member Secretary: Project Director, DKMA iii) Institute and KVK level Committee: Chairman: Director for ICAR Institutes/ Director, ATARI of the relevant zone for KVKs Member: Nominated Scientists (1 or 2) of the Institute or KVKs Member: Nominees from Administrative/Finance side Member Secretary: To be appointed by the concerned Director The above committee will be treated as a rolling committee. In case the exhibition/event is having a specific theme, then in such case the committee will be chaired by DDG from the respective SMD. The format of Check List (Annexure VIII) has been designed and is attached herewith separately. The details are to be filled up in the check list by the exhibitors/organisers of the event for evaluation by the Committee. 3. The theme of the exhibition should be in tune with the mandate of ICAR i.e. related to spread of agricultural technologies (including animal sciences, fisheries, agricultural engineering and other allied sectors), good practices, farm inputs, farm tools and machinery, contingency plans, marketing of farm produce, farmers welfare etc. 4. Priority is to be given to exhibitions organised by different ministries and govt. departments or reputed societies being supported by the government. 5. If the event is organised by NGO or private sector, the organiser should have a good background in this area as depicted by the record of events organised and activities carried out in the past. 6. Profiles of other exhibitors likely to participate in the exhibition may also be considered or have participated on previous events organised by the exhibitors. 7. Expected total footfall and profile of visitors/audience may be considered. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 37 8. The date and venue of the exhibition should be considered in view of access, feasibility for the Council and clash with other activities/ events of the Council. 9.