 It was used extensively on cotton 8–10- years back but now-a-days cultivation of cotton is reduced remarkably so the use of this treatment has also reduced. Most of the farmers are using Naffatiya leaves extract in pigeonpea. Sometimes residue of tobacco (stem, Sangrol (1992) 66 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference small and fallen leaves) left in the field after harvesting are used. Residues are boiled in water. Filtered suspension is sprayed directly without any adulteration with water on the crop. This practice is in use for a very long time in this area and requires a lot of labour to prepare it. This extract is also used on seedlings of coconut and okra by some other farmers (Tuna). 114 Control of pod- borer in pigeonpea At the onset of pod formation in pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan) crop, the possibility of pest attacks also increases. The prominent pest of this plant is the green caterpillar (Heliothis spp). To control this pest citric acid is used. Approximately 10 g to 25 g of citric acid is dissolved in 15 litre water and this solution is used for spraying on the crop. This controls the incidence of green caterpillar without any side effects on the crop. There is yet another alternative which is spraying 10 ml of kerosene mixed in 10 litre of water to control the pests (Kheda, Gujarat). Patel (1999c) 115 Control of pests in greengram Toward off pest attack on greengram (Phaseolus aureus) some farmers dissolve 200g of tobacco powder, 2 litres of buttermilk and 2 leaves of Kuvaar' (Aloe vera), in15 litres of water. The solution is left undisturbed for 15 days. Then it is filtered with a cloth and the filtrate is dissolved in water in the ratio of 100ml solution to 15 litres of water. This mixture is then sprayed on crop at an interval of 8–10 days. This operation increases productivity and controls 80% of greengram pest (Rajkot, Gujarat). Kapadia (1997c) 116 Control of podborer in pigeonpea Spray of neem+chilli+ garlic and bougainvillea extracts is done to control pod borer in pigeonpea (Mahboobnagar and Kurnool, Andhra Pradesh) 117 Control of insects in pigeonpea by growing maize as bird attractant Seeds of maize (250–375 g/ha) are grown in fields of pigeonpea. These plants are grown randomly to attract birds to eat maize grains. Actually the reason behind this practice is to make birds habituated to come to the field. After a few days, the limited stock of maize cobs would be over. Thereafter, habituated birds sit on maize plants in search of alternate food and find insect larvae on pigeonpea and pick it up as food. Thus larval population is minimized (Bharuch, Gujarat). Ghanchi (1992) 67 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 118 Pest control methods of pulses and gingelly Mixing pieces of jaggery, husk of gingelly and cumbu, and sand (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al.