 Women’s contributions to society should not be ignored as she plays crucial role in the home considered as the primary social unit at village or society. So empowerment of gender should be brought out at each household level by giving equal opportunities to the gender. When the women become empowered, the whole family is empowered and this strengthens the entire community. Women should be encouraged in all spheres to promote women’s education at all levels. This will help to improve the overall balance of women in the community and as well gender mainstreaming and gender empowerment in the society. 159 Chapter 15 Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to- Land Initiatives of ICAR AK Singh, YG Prasad, VP Chahal, Randhir Singh and R Roy Burman “I should like to slip out of the public gaze, to bury myself in the farm and devote my attention to farming.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Gandhiji’s profound love for the land and respect for the toiling rural people made him believe that India lives in its villages. He dreamt of self-sufficient and self-reliant villages and visualized that agricultural sector and household cottage industries may eradicate rural poverty and unemployment. Gandhi ji stressed upon the growth of agriculture based rural industries like khadi, handlooms, sericulture and handicrafts. As rural industries could operate successfully on family labour with less amount of capital and external inputs, the demand and supply could be addressed locally. Gandhi’s political movements were aligned with social reforms. Mahatma would often turn to thoughts of village reconstruction to address unemployment and starvation in rural India (Bhuimali 2004). The principle of Gandhian philosophy is regional self-sufficiency, or Gram Swaraj. He realised that to achieve Gram Swaraj, revival of village industries was absolutely essential. In 1934, the All-India Village Industries Association (AIVIA) was established for rural industrialisation. 2. Gram Swaraj Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of Gram Swaraj is rooted in his idea of self-reliance. The means of production of the basic necessities must be available locally. He supported the idea of decentralisation of production and emphasised on the idea of autonomous and self-contained villages through Panchayats having executive, legislative and judicial powers. Gandhian philosophy advocated a labour-intensive policy against a capital-intensive one with decentralised system of planning, production and decision-making. The Gandhian philosophy highlights ownership, co-operation, equality, self-discipline, simplicity and limited wants. He believed in mobilizing people to produce locally to empower them and provide gainful employment to large section of society living in villages. The Dandi March of Gandhi in 1930 was phenomenal for signalling the importance of community participation in addressing local needs. 160 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.