 The year 2023 will be celebrated as the International Year of Millets (IYM) and to support and promote IYM-2023, ICAR-IIMR is implementing its “Millets FPO Model” through its FPOs by focusing on area, production, productivity, and market linkages of millets. Supply chain of millets and FPO In the traditional supply chain of millets, small and marginal farmers have faced various challenges like less price, lack of market, lack of processing unit, no technical knowledge on value addition of millets, lack of awareness on business opportunities of millets etc. To Indian Farming 73 (01): 105-106; January 2023 Table 1. List of FPOs promoted by ICAR-IIMR State Agency FPOs Karnataka SFAC 12 NFSM Nutri-cereals Submission 2 Govt. of Karnataka (WDD) 9 Andhra Pradesh NABARD, Andhra Pradesh 7 NFSM Nutri-cereals Submission 2 Telangana NABARD, Telangana 5 National Cooperative Development Corporation 2 NFSM Nutri-cereals Submission 1 Madhya Pradesh NFSM Nutri-cereals Submission 1 Total 41 Indian Farming 106 January 2023 address these issues, there is a need to alter the existing supply chain of millets and this can be achieved with the intervention of FPOs. ICAR-IIMR aims to strengthen the millet cultivation in India by highlighting the climate resilient nature, importance, and health benefits of millets through its FPOs. Table 2. Commodity wise list of ICAR-IIMR FPOs State District No. of FPOs operating Major commodity Andhra Pradesh Visakhapatnam 8 Spices, Pineapple, Custard and Millets Anantapur 1 Groundnut, Redgram and Millets Telangana Medak 2 Paddy, Millets Mahabubnagar 6 Mango, Redgram, Millets Karnataka Bidar 4 Oilseeds, Pulses and Millets Gulbarga 2 Pulses and Millets Bijapur 2 Sunflower, Pulses, Citrus, Groundnut and Millets Yadgir 1 Soybean and Millets Bagalkot 3 Sugarcane, Maize, Pulses, Onion and Millets Raichur 2 Millets and Pulses Koppal 5 All types of Millets and Pulses Dharwad 4 Pulses, Maize and Millets Madhya Pradesh Dindori 1 Millets Total 41 Supply chain of millets and FPO input services, direct market linkages, customer hiring centres, common service centres and primary processing facilities of millets. Tekmal Mandal FPC is from Medak district of Telangana that is involved in providing timely inputs services to farmers at nominal cost and is also engaged in procuring paddy from the nearby villages. Lambasingi FPC is from tribal areas and deals with unique and diversified products through e-platforms. The Lambasingi FPO is also involved in capacity building, input supply, processing and value addition of millets, and does own branding and marketing by engaging the tribal, small and marginal farmers in and around.