 Dietary inclusion of synbiotic (Mannan oligosaccharides-MOS @ 0.1% or 0.2% with probiotic Lactobacillus acidophilus @ 106 or 107 CFU/g) along with 0.05% glycerol butyrate improved production performance, immune response, blood biochemical parameters and carcass characteristics of broiler chickens. Inclusion of a formulation containing Kappaphycus alvarezii seaweed powder and Gracilaria salicornia seaweed powder (50:50) @ 1.50% in basal diet improved production performance, immuno- responsiveness, gut health (both microbial and structural), breast and thigh yields (percentage of live weight) in broiler chickens. Supplementation of protease enzyme increased the effective safe inclusion level of rice based dried distillers’ grain with solubles (DDGS) from 12.5 to 15% in diet of broiler chickens. Pig Vegetable waste/fruit waste based silages: Nutritive Veterinary type culture collection (VTCC) Four new anaerobic bacteria, viz. Paraclostridium benzoelyticum, Clostridium butyricum, Clostridium paraputrificum and Paraclostridium benzoelyticum were isolated, characterized and submitted to VTCC-RM repository. These novel microorganisms have several probiotic properties as evident from their genomic analysis and are now available for further research. Nutritional and physiological interventions: The research efforts yielded successful pregnancy at the age of 2 years, which is probably the first report of its kind. The camel heifers of >1-year-old, were selected and maintained in two different camel corrals. The control group was fed completely on fodder and treatment group was given concentrate at pre-decided composition and quantity. The results reaffirmed that body weight is more crucial than age for puberty in female camels and heifers with 2 years and > 360 kg body weight can be mated and conceived successfully. To the best of our knowledge this is the first report of successful pregnancy at the age of 2 years. Further, feeding concentrate in addition to regular dry fodder is beneficial for gaining desired body weight. Poultry Nutritional manipulations for optimising performance in chicken: Various nutritional strategies for mitigating adverse effects of heat stress were evaluated. Safflower protein hydrolysate and protein concentrate at 0.1 and 0.2% in diet, respectively, reduced lipid peroxidation, whereas the latter increased body weight and activity of super oxide dismutase. Body weight gain and feed efficiency improved progressively with increase in digestible lysine concentration from 1.03–1.23%. Inclusion of vegetable oil (1% in diet) on isocaloric basis in diet during summer improved egg production and antioxidant status in laying chicken. Supplementation of Chebula fruit extract and grape seed extract significantly reduced lipid peroxidation in broilers.