 The front axle is designed in such a way that the tractor can be made into a 3- wheeled or a 4-wheeled vehicle. He explained that double-wheeled front axle is essential while carrying out farm operations, which are usually at low speed and high load. However, when it is used for transporting goods to the market yard, many people would prefer single front wheel, pulling the trailer. Other features of the innovation are: (i) engine equipped with 12.5 HP Field Marshal, air-cooled engine with self-start system; (ii) it has maximum speed of 30 km/hr; (iii) standard hypoid gear of 9-42, gear design along with provision of differential lock; (iv) gears are 1-2-3 and reverse (in both high low); (v) it has P.T.O shaft with different speeds, suitable for threshing operation and spraying agrochemicals; Shri Mansukhbhai Patel, 49, Kanti Park Society, Ranna Park, Ghatlodia, dist. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2947 Rekkala dhanti for intercultivation of close- spaced crops like sorghum (vi) multi-disc foot-operated brakes; and (vii) implement position and lowering speed control by hydraulic system. The various advantages include: (i) innovative transmission unit, (ii) interchangeability from 3 - wheeled to 4 - wheeled tractor and vice versa, (iii) improved performance with reduced cost, (iv) adjustable wheel base to meet the requirement for interculturing, (v) the three wheels facilitate high manoeuvrability, and hence is ideal for small fields (vi) the gear system is based on pulley mechanism and saves energy, and (vii) the design was kept simple, making it possible for the farmer himself to do the repairs. Keywords: load, smaller machine, gear, front-axle The farmers in Appareddyguda village of district Mahaboobanagar in Andhra Pradesh traditionally use rekkala dhanti for intercultivation of sorghum, fingermillet and pearlmillet sown 30 cm apart. This tool is made of iron blade with a width of 22.5 cm, fixed with wooden legs, having a conical shape. It has 90 cm wooden handle in the middle of the triangular structure and one beam of 3 m length that can be tied to the yoke. Two such tools are attached to the yoke, operated by a pair of bullocks with three men. The farmers with these implements can cover 1 ha area in a day, costing Rs 200/ha. Farmers reported that this tool facilitates interculture operation in close-spaced crops even after 30 days of sowing. Keywords: rekkala dhanti, fingermillet, pearlmillet Shri V. Srinivas, Research Associate, TARIVLP, Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture. Hyderabad (Andra Pradesh) 500 059 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.