 This meeting was organized following a decision taken in the last special meeting of the VCs held in September, 2011. The main objective of the meeting was to explore the avenues and opportunities for mutual collaboration and co-operation between agricultural universities and CGIAR institutions in strengthening the research and education. It is hoped that this interaction would provide a beginning for synergy in our common cause of strengthening Indian agriculture through innovation and capacity building. As desired in the last VC conference’ the purpose of the interaction was to learn about the programmes, have discussions and take advantage of the presence of international institutes in India by having exchange of faculty and students. It would also enable us to know the strengths of the CG Centers so as to exploit their international experience and identify the areas where collaboration could be possible. Dr C. S. Chakrabarti, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) appreciated the efforts of the ICAR for this initiative and wished that the deliberation would be fruitful. Dr P.K. Pujari, FA (DARE) and Addl. Secy. (DARE) hoped that during the course of the day, substantial areas of active collaborations and exchange could be identified. The nine CGIAR Institutes and CABI participated in the interactive meeting. Dr Mathur from the Bioversity International (BI) made a brief presentation highlighting the areas of co-opeartion with AUs in persuit of excellence in capacity building of human resources. He informed that BI is carrying out global research in three challenging areas viz. sustainable agriculture, nutrition and conservation. In the area of capacity building, it works with the global range of national partners to provide a comprehensive programme of training materials, courses and support in three challenging areas towards individuals and institutions. It provides following training modules and guides: • A training module for the international course on the management and utilisation of field genebanks and in vitro collections • A training guide for in situ Conservation On-Farm • A training module for the international course on plant genetic resources and management • Seed handling in genebanks It also has good collection of e-learning modules on the conservation of crop wild relatives. The portal GENESYS facilitates access to and use of information on plant genetic resources for food and agriculture. There are competitive grant schemes under which selected scientists and teachers can work on key issues of agriculture bioversity management. Bioversity Internship Programmes is also open to young students. Dr R. K. Khetarpal, Regional Director, CABI underlined the mission of CABI improves people’s lives worldwide by providing information and applying scientific expertise to solve problems in agriculture and the environment. It has two-fold activity viz. Knowledge Management (KM) and Knowledge for Development (K4D).