 Pre-germinated seeds Seeds are pre-germinated and sown in a protective fluid carrier/gel, i.e. creating a stable ‘packaged’ environment. Nutrients, fungicides and insecticides may be incorporated into the carrier gel. This gives the advantage over uncontrollable factors in the field environment which affect seed germination. Generally used for turf grass, vegetables, flower seeds. Seed coating Seed coating is a process that involves applying or addition of a material or protective layer to seed, to improve their physical properties and protect against damage during storage and planting. The term ‘coated seed’ has been defined as a seed that has been ‘pelleted’, ‘tableted’ or ‘taped’. The goal of seed coating is to improve the handling, placement, storage, and planting characteristics of seeds can be greatly enhanced by altering the shape of seeds or placing the chemicals on seed coat Methodology of seed priming Normal Seed Priming Agent Priming of seed Primed Seed Seed Priming March–April 2023 67 which regulate and improve germination. Additionally, seed coating can reduce the need for chemical inputs, making it an environmentally friendly and sustainable technique. Some types of coating are given below. Physical coating: This method involves applying a physical layer, such as a clay or polymer coating, to seed samples to improve their handling and storage characteristics. Physical coatings can also help to protect against damage from pests and diseases. E.g. Slurry coating, Film coating and Temperature-sensitive polymers (Intellicoat). In case of slurry coating, a wettable powder is suspended in water to make slurry and a known quantity of slurry and the seeds are dumped in mixing chamber where they are blended. The treatment fluid is directly applied to the seeds in the form of mist in a mist-o-matic seed treater. Chemical coating: This method involves applying a chemical substance, such as a pesticide or fertilizer, to seed samples to improve their performance and increase crop yields. Chemical coatings can also help to reduce the need for additional inputs during the growing season, making it a more sustainable option. E.g. Captan, Apron, Vitavax, etc. Bio-coating: This method involves applying beneficial microorganisms, such as bacteria and fungi to seed samples to improve their performance and increase their viability. Bio-coatings can improve the uptake of nutrients, increase resistance to diseases and pests, and improve the overall health of crops. E.g. Micro-organisms (Rhizobium, Trichoderma). Film coating: Film coating is the application of a thin, durable and water permeable coat which can be used to contain small amount of pesticides and other products securely, so that they may have maximum effect at the time of sowing. Film coatings do not significantly obscure the shape and weight of the seed. The seed shape is not changed and increase in seed weight is by 1-10%.