 Moreover, the study un­ covers state-specific variations driven by factors such as water resources, crop patterns, and government policies, ultimately shaping the adoption landscape of specific irrigation technologies. Focus group discussions conducted in Andhra Pradesh reveal prominent challenges faced, including limited subsidies, high costs associated with adoption, and crop-specific irrigation requirements. In light of these findings, the study emphasizes the necessity for a comprehensive approach to achieve water conservation and enhance livelihoods. This approach advocates for the integration of joint farming practices, water-sharing methods, supportive financial policies encompassing subsidies and accessible credit facilities, and the implementation of sustainable government social schemes. Such integrated efforts are deemed imperative for fostering resilient societies amidst evolving agricultural and envi­ ronmental landscapes. 1. Introduction Water scarcity is a global issue that severely affects arid and semi- arid regions and countries worldwide. Global climate models (GCM) have projected significant changes in rainfall patterns and air temper­ ature, negatively affecting crop production and water resources (Li et al., 2022). This situation particularly endangers rural livelihoods reliant on rainfed agriculture and overall food security in many devel­ oping nations (Singh et al., 2018; Gosling and Arnell, 2016). In India, where agriculture plays a vital role in improving rural livelihoods, reports indicate that 50% of the total workforce is engaged in the agri­ cultural sector (CIA, 2017). Semi-arid regions (SARs) in India face dy­ namic climatic and non-climatic risks, rendering farmers and communities vulnerable. Climate change poses a potential threat to water resources and the agriculture sector, with 75% of cropped areas located in semi-arid regions of the country. States in semi-arid climates experience severe impacts, especially during monsoon rainfall deficits, which directly impede water access for crop irrigation, resulting in below-average crop yields. This is notably observed in drought-prone areas such as Southern and Eastern Maharashtra (Western India), * Corresponding author at: Global Research Centre for Advanced Sustainability Science (GRASS), University of Toyama, Japan. E-mail address: geetha@eco.u-toyama.ac.jp (G. Mohan). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Current Research in Environmental Sustainability journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com/journal/current-research-in-environmental-sustainability https://doi.org/10.1016/j.crsust.2024.100255 Received 18 July 2023; Received in revised form 24 May 2024; Accepted 30 May 2024 Current Research in Environmental Sustainability 7 (2024) 100255 2 Northern Karnataka (South-Western India), Andhra Pradesh (South­ eastern coast of India), Odisha (Eastern coast of India), Telangana (Southeastern coast of India), and Rajasthan (Western India) (Dhawan, 2017).