 India proclaimed a three-week across the country lockdown till mid-April in the underlying stage, which has along these lines been reached out till May 3 for accomplishing agreeable control of the infection spread. The global pandemic of Covid-19 that originated in the Wuhan province of China has stretched its arms in the entire world affecting each and each sector of the financial system. ISSN NO: 0776-3808 http://aegaeum.com/ Page No: 480 AEGAEUM JOURNAL Volume 8, Issue 5, 2020 These measures may help in restricting the wellbeing emergency, yet—as in different nations—the total shutdown of every financial action aside from basic administrations will make a monetary emergency and wretchedness for poor people, with enormous occupation misfortunes and rising nourishment frailty. The financial stun will probably be substantially more extreme for India, for two reasons. Initially, pre-COVID-19, the economy was at that point easing back down, aggravating existing issues of joblessness, low wages, provincial trouble, ailing health, and far-reaching disparity. Second, India's enormous casual segment is especially helpless. Out of the national aggregate of 465 million specialists, around 91% (422 million) were casual laborers in 2017-18. Lacking ordinary pay rates or salaries, this horticulture, vagrant, and other casual laborers would be hardest-hit during the lockdown time frame. Here, I center around the reasonable effects on farming, supply chains, nourishment, and sustenance security and vocations. Transient workers who have figured out how to return won't have the option to return right away. Some may not wish to return additionally, given the travails many may have persevered through after the lockdown. The sector has faced a number of enactments and amendments in the policies and programmers between the first Industrial Policy and Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act for better performance. It has acquired a highly regarded rest in the socioeconomic giving of India even after a variety of shortcomings in the strategy proposal, poor infrastructure, inadequate training, incomplete credit facility, higher sickness rate and so forth1. There is a requirement for both mitigation and recovery measures, to help the influenced and pick the strings once more, defeat the misfortune supported, and revamp their lives. Careful steps like keeping up social removing and hand washing should proceed as COVID-19 proceeds.