 After cooling the solution, the animal is made to drink it. This cures the animal within 3 hr and the remedy is believed to be 100% effective. Keywords: hing, soova dana, ajma, jaggery, dry ginger For the treatment of afara farmers of village Khirka in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. About 250 g onion juice, 50 g asafoetida and 100 g salt are taken and mixed properly. It is given twice daily to the animal for curing afara. Keywords: afara, onion, asafoetida, salt Cattle owners of village Dang (Saradhna), Ajmer (Rajastan) feed 50 g tetumba (Colocynthis vulgaris) Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bhikalal Prabhudas Masani, Amreli (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Rajendra Prasad, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Kharia, Auodh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 3607 Preparation of hawaichar Shri Dcnkaranji/Namji Jat, Dang (Saradhna) village, Peesagam. Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3082 Treatment of afara in animals with black salt and desi ghee 3083 Treatment of afara in animals with black pepper, mustard oil and black salt 3084 Treatment of afara in animals with cowdung and jaggery 3085 Treatment of afara in animals with akauwa leaves and mustard oil fruit, 50 g mustard seed, 50 g salt and sour buttermilk mixture to the animals when they suffer from bloating problem. About 40-50% families are following it. This is an age-old practice. Keywords: tetumba, mustard, salt, buttermilk, bloating This ITK is practised in village Bishesharpur in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh to cure afara in animals. About 30 g black salt is mixed in 200 g desi ghee and given to the affected animals twice daily to control afara. Keywords: afara, black salt, desi ghee Paste of black pepper (10 g) and black salt (50 g) is prepared by adding 100 ml mustard oil to it. Cattle owners of village Khai Khera of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) supplement this mixture to the animal for curing afara. Keywords: afara, black salt, black pepper, mustard oil Cowdung and jaggery (each 250 g) are mixed and given to the animal orally twice daily to control afara in animals. This treatment is followed in village Serasa of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: afara, cow dung, jaggery About 2-3 akauwa leaves are taken and 10 g mustard oil is applied on them. These leaves are given twice daily to the animal to control afara. This ITK is practised in village Nawada (Ban) in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: afara, akauwa leaves, mustard oil Azmer (Rajastan) 305 001 Shri Chote Lai, S/o Mangali Prasad, Bishesharpur, Joytijagir, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Miyan, S/o Shri Raihis Khan, Khai Khera, Rithoura, dist.