, black pepper, hing, comb of wasp Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2631 Use of soybean meal to reduce mastitis in dairy cattle Shri Aru Khate is a successful dairy farmer in Dimapur town of Nagaland . Through his practical experiences he has established a small dairy farm in Nagarjan area Shri Aru Khate Nagarjan 'B', Dimapur (Nagaland)  of Dimapur town. According to him, mastitis in his farm has been greatly reduced when he replaced maize by soybean meal in the ration. Over the past one year he has not encountered a single case of mastitis in his farm. Keywords: soybean meal, mastitis in dairy cattle 2521 Use of pure ghee, honey and iron rod to treat the dislocated or fractured organs in animals Mixture of honey and pure ghee (1:1) is uniformly spread over a cloth. Iron rod is heated on fire till it becomes red and this rod is branded on the skin of dislocated fractured organ of the animal. The cloth with honey and ghee is bandaged over it. The farmers of Elandaikundam village are following this practice since 10 years. Keywords: pure ghee, honey, iron rod, fractured organ Shri T. Ramesh Elandaikundam, Thirumalapadi via Ariyalur, Perambulur (Tamil Nadu) 621 851 2539 Use of mayurchulia (Etephantopus scaber) in treatment of bone fracture in animals Fresh root of mayurchulia (Etephantopus scaber) is made into a fine paste, fried in castor oil and is applied and bandaged locally for bone fracture in animals. The root extract and castor oil helps in activating the nerves and setting of bones. This is an age-old practice being used in Chandaka village of Khurda district in Orissa. Keywords: mayurchulia, castor oil, bone fracture Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2535 Treatment for fracture of animal bone by mithi seed (Trigonella focnumgraecum) While grazing in open, sometimes bones of animals get fractured. Mithi seeds are crushed and a paste is prepared with water. This paste is applied on the fractured bone and it is tied with bamboo sticks for 15-20 days. This is practiced in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: mithi, bone fracture People of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2570 Use of hot mustard oil to cure dropping switch of tail of animal Due to some infection, the hairs of the switch of animals drop continuously, sometimes leading to even total hair loss. For this, the affected part of the tail switch is rubbed by iron rod and then the switch is put in hot mustard oil. This practice is done only once. About 70-80% problem is controlled by this practices. It is in vogue for the last 10 years in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh.