 • We highlight the importance of locally adapted crops for the transition towards resilient agriculture and food systems, enhancing agricultural diversity and improving food security, and nutrition. Recognizing the achievements of the Wheat Initiative, we intend Indian Farming 12 June 2023 to continue the R&D efforts to provide inclusive solutions for climate-resilient, nutritious, locally adapted, indigenous and underutilized grains. To strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of these grain crops, we support the launch of the “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI)” with voluntary membership from G20 member countries, non-member countries, international organizations and the private sector. • We support India’s proposal to organize a workshop on climate change, sustainable and climate-resilient agricultural practices and actions to make agriculture a part of the solution to the climate crisis. We also recognize the enhanced need of cooperation and research on transboundary diseases, antimicrobial resistance and prevention of zoonotic disease emergence among One Health issues. We support the proposal to organize an experts meeting on the ‘One Health’ approach for identifying opportunities to undertake research through collaborations, without duplicating the efforts of existing international organizations. Millets and other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative: (MAHARISHI) • We, under the auspices of a G20 MACS Global Research Collaboration Priority (GRCP), support the launch of the “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI)” to facilitate research collaboration on climate resilient and nutritious grains including Millets and other underutilized grains. This will supplement the efforts undertaken under the International Year of Millets 2023 (IYoM 2023) program initiated by the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). • Achieving impact across multiple grains is difficult due to dispersed efforts. To address this problem, a framework must be developed that can be applied to the grains under this initiative. • We underscore that any G20 member may voluntarily contribute funds, scientific expertise, and/or other resources to the initiative. The MAHARISHI intends to cooperate with public and private organizations, making efforts to advance research on these grains. In alignment with the G20 MACS guiding principles, this GRCP will be limited to two years, and a written report will be provided during the 2025 G20 MACS. • The activities of this effort may continue after 2025, but at this point, the activity should no longer be discussed, presented, or reported at the G20 MACS, except for any future stocktaking report. • Drawing upon the learnings from the Wheat Initiative, the MAHARISHI intends to pursue the cost-effective activities, while striving to avoid duplication of existing efforts.