 Research in Globalization 9 (2024) 100235 6 percentages around 57 %. The OBCs are the highest remittance users in different agricultural sectors, with around 62 %, whereas STs are the lowest, with around 51.6 %. In terms of the education category, mi­ grants with primary have the highest expenses in all categories with around 63.24 %, while those with higher secondary have the lowest expenses with around 57.38 %. Regarding land holding, households with less than 1 acre have the highest expenses in all categories at 79.94 %, while those with landless have the lowest expenses at around 47.54 %. In terms of family type, households in joint or extended families have higher expenses than those in joint or extended families in all categories. Various factors related to migration significantly impact the utili­ zation of remittances in the agricultural sector. Table 4 highlights that households receiving remittances half-yearly or yearly exhibit the highest engagement in agricultural expenses at approximately 65 %, followed closely by those receiving remittances monthly at 64.09 %. This engagement is notably lower for households receiving remittances on an as-needed basis. Additionally, households receiving remittances from other household members show a higher propensity (64.2 %) to spend on agricultural expenses compared to those receiving remittances from parents or spouses. Lastly, migrants with a migration duration of more than 10 years have a higher likelihood (around 64 %) of using remittances for agricultural expenses, compared to those with a migra­ tion duration of 5–10 years (nearly 61 %) and less than 5 years (54.93 %). Table 5 visualises the effects of various socio-economic, de­ mographic and migration characteristics of migrants on remittance utilization patterns in the agricultural sector, such as hiring labour, purchasing hybrid seeds, purchasing fertilizer/pesticides, and purchas­ ing a tube well. The table presents the odds ratios (OR) and confidence intervals (CI) for each category of independent variables (age, caste, family type, sex of household head, education category, landholding, migration duration, and frequency of remittance) concerning the reference category for each variable. The age category of migrant agri­ cultural households is significantly associated with total agricultural expenses. Compared to respondents below the age of 30, those in the age range of 31–45 years have 1.3 times higher agricultural expenses. However, the confidence interval (CI) suggests that this result is not statistically significant. However, for individuals aged 46–60 and those above 60 years, the agricultural expenses are more pronounced, with respective increases of 1.47 and 1.67 times, and the latter is statistically significant. Caste categories also play a role in influencing total agri­ cultural expenses.