 we a * Figuret: Different components of Zero Budget Natural Farming Jivamrita: Jivamrita is a fermented mixture of cow dung, urine, jaggery, pulse flour, water, and farm bund soil, used to improve soil fertility. It is not a fertilizer but a source of 500 million microorganisms that convert nutrients from their '‘non-available’ state into their ‘available’ one. Benefits of jivamrita e Higher growth rates in plants e Higher level of palatability e Higher profitability and production of sustainable crops boost the crop’s absorption and concentration of nutrients Bijamrita: The process includes the treatment of seed using cow dung, urine, and lime-based formulations. Used as a seed treatment solution before sowing. Benefits of bijamrita e It promotes the growth of plants e Protects the crops from harmful seed-borne and soil-borne pathogens e Improve the pH level of soil e Increases earthworm count in the soil Whapasa: The process involves activating earthworms in the soil to create water vapour condensation. Benefits of whapasa e Improves soil aeration, humus content, water availability, capacity to retain water e Improve soil structure Mulching: A microclimate is created using mulches with trees and crop biomass to maintain soil moisture and maintain a temperature range of 25-32°C for survival of microorganisms. Benefits of mulching e Improves _ soil it decomposes e Improves soil conditions e Stops nutrients from leaching out of the soil drainage and _ structure as Status of natural farming in India Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India has sanctioned a project titled ‘Outscaling of Natural farming through 425 KVKs’. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has implemented the project through 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) in 425 KVKs of the country. Under the project, KVKs are carrying out the activities like awareness campaigns, training programmes and demonstrations on natural farming as per the targets given to them. ATARI wise targeted activities for KVKs during 2022-23 and 2023-24 is given in Table 1. Several states implemented natural farming, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu are prominent among them. Through a variety of programs, state governments in several states are encouraging natural farming practices at the ground level. Andhra Pradesh The government of Andhra Pradesh has adopted a natural farming system based on ecology instead of input economics. Its main approach is that it reduces synthetic inputs, provides cost-effectiveness as well, and improves environmental conditions, making it climate- resilient and less expensive. Gujarat Additional financial support was provided in the Budget 2020-21 under the Gujarat Atma Nirbhar package to promote natural farming.