 Empowering stakeholders for local actions is a key element of these initiatives. The policy framework will further enable school science education reforms by improving teaching methods, science curricula, motivating science teachers and schemes for early attraction of talent to science. Also special incentive mechanisms will be devised to stimulate research in the universities and develop young leaders in science and engineering. o Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Excellence and Relevance Investment in basic research will be enhanced for fostering excellence against global benchmarks and focusing on relevance for addressing national challenges. Gender Parity Participation of women in STI activities is important. New and flexible schemes to address the mobility challenges of employed women scientists and technologists will be put in place. A broad scope for re-entry of women into R&D and facilitation mechanisms for special career paths in diverse areas will be sought. Inter-University Centres The few inter-university centres that have been set up have proved the concept to be a successful and viable one. Such centres need to be multiplied in different fields to enable a wider cross section of university researchers access advanced research facilities and equipment which are otherwise not available in university environments. These will be discipline-specific as well as multi-disciplinary, including humanities, to address the grand challenges in S&T and its applications. Participation in Global R&D Infrastructure and Big Science Modern science is increasingly becoming resource intensive. It has become necessary to Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 create high-cost global infrastructures in some fields through international consortia models. Indian participation in such international projects will be encouraged and facilitated to gain access to facilities for advanced research in cutting edge areas of science. This will also enable the Indian industry to gain global experience and competitiveness in some high-technology areas with spin-off benefits. Performance-Linked Rewards and Investments Transparent centrally implementable Performance Related Incentive Scheme (PRIS), based on past and proven track record in research, will be put in place to enable grant- based investments in such performers. For R&D leading to technology development and knowledge services, the criteria would, however, be institution specific. Centrally instituted incentives to public-funded R&D centres for outcomes leading to public and strategic goods could be introduced. National Agenda and the STI System Macro indicators of R&D do not really reflect the innovation capability of a nation. Appropriate indicators, which integrate measures of excellence and inventiveness with relevance and affordable innovation, are necessary for evidence based policy actions.