 Two foliar sprays of naphthalene acetic acid (NAA) at 10-day interval @4g after 45 and 55 days of transplanting to increases the green and red ripe fruit yield of chilli. Cauliflower Improved Varieties; Late Season: Pusa Snowball-1, Pusa Snowball K-1 Sowing and Seed Rate: The best transplanting time is June-July for the early varieties, August to mid-September for the main season varieties and October to first week of November for the late season varieties. The seed rate for main and late season varieties is 250 g per acre, whereas, for early season varieties 500 g seed is required. Spacing: For the main-season crop is 45×45 cm. and 45×30 cm for early and late-season crops. Manures and Fertilizers: 40 tonnes of farmyard manure, with 50 kg of N (110 kg of Urea), 25 kg of P2O5 (155 kg of Single Superphosphate) and 25 kg of K2O (40 kg of Muriate of Potash) per acre is the optimum fertilizer dose for all these varieties. Apply whole of farmyard manure, P2O5 and K2O and half N before transplanting and the remaining half of N as top-dressing four weeks after transplanting. Irrigation: First irrigation should be given just after transplanting. Subsequent irrigations can be given at an interval of 7-8 days during ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 37 summer and 10-15 days during winter depending upon soil type and weather. The total numbers of irrigations required are 8-12. Dairy farming October All categories of animals should be de-wormed at this time. The animal should become pregnant again in 2-3 months after calving. Animals showing post parturient anestrous should be treated. In herds with problem of brucellosis, the 4-8 months old female calves should be vaccinated for brucellosis. November Reduce the amount of crude protein in concentrate mixture by reducing the quantity of oil seed cakes in it. Prune the trees to allow sunshine inside the shed. December Tie animals in dry place to protect them from cold. Quickly replace the wet bedding material/straw Give heeng occasionally to calves to protect them from cold. Keep animals under the roof at night and in the sun during the day. Apply a solution of glycerin and betadine in case of cracked teats. Mix straw while feeding first cut of berseem. In case of bloat, give the vegetable oil (mustard, sesame, peanut, or sunflower oil) to the animal. Avoid berseem in animals showing prolapse. January Do not cover the shed on all sides. Keep windows and skylights open for ventilation inside the shed. To protect from cold, the animals may occasionally be given lukewarm water to drink. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 38 Keep animals on the katcha floor for half the time to prevent lameness. February In case of infestation, apply the acaricide for control of ectoparasites in cattle. Find out and fulfil the summer fodder availability in this month. Check the working of fans and fountains in the shed. The animal which has been inseminated two to three months ago should be checked for conception.