 697 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2531 Feeding cattle with mahua {Madhuca latifolia) for providing strength and nutrients to milch animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 161 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No. 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2549 Use of garlic (Allium sativum) to cure Ranikhet disease in poultry birds Volume 2, supplement I, page 166 Garlic Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2598 Use of garlic for curing Ranikhet disease in poultry Volume 2, supplement I, page 166 Garlic Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Contents FISHERIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1296 Use of asafoetida (hing) in the supplementary diet of Indian major carps and common carps Volume 2, page 501 Hing Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 423 Mahua seed oil cake as a pesticide in pisciculture Volume 2, page 503 Mahua Refer to ITK Code No. 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 424 Use of banana pseudostem in fish pond Volume 2, page 503 Banana Refer to ITK Code No. 1192 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1295 Use of ash dust and neem cake for treatment of EUS disease in fishes Volume 2, page 503 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2211 A herbal extract containing Boerhavia diffusa to treat dropsy disease in fish Volume 2, page 503 Boerhavia diffusa Contents ITK-—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Habit Geographical indications Habit Bengali: gadhapurna, punarnaba, raktapunarnaba; Gujarati: satodi; Hindi: biskhafra, sant; Kannada: balavadikae, gajjeru; Malayalam: thumizhazhma, titudamma; Marathi: raktavasu, tambadivasu; Oriya: ghodapuruni; Sanskrit: punarnavam, rakta punarnava, shotagni; Tamil: mukku-rattai keerai; Telugu: atikamamidi, giligeru, yerragalijeru; Urdu: bashkhira. Spreading hogweed Boerhavia diffusa Linn. Pharmacological studies have demonstrated that punarnava possesses diuretic and anti-inflammatory activities, maximum activity being present in samples collected in the rainy season. It is particularly useful as a maintenance drug. It is effective in cases of oedema and ascites resulting from early cirrhosis of the liver and chronic peritonitis. The plant is reported to be efficaceous in abdominal tumours and cancer. It is also credited with anti- bacterial and cardiotonic properties. An anti-viral agent, active against spherical and tubular viruses, was isolated from the roots, including systemic resistance in plants. The herb including the roots is eaten as a vegetable in curries and soups. The roots and seeds are added to cereal, pancakes and other food.