 Some of the salient recommendations of the committee are as under:  A uniform minimum age limit of 16 and 19 years should be followed for UG and PG admissions, respectively.  The eligibility requirement of subjects studied at the entry level for UG/PG admissions should be widened to attract talented candidates across various subject streams.  The existing minimum percentage of marks/CGPA/OGPA prescribed for undertaking All India Entrance Examinations for UG and PG admissions conducted by ICAR should be uniformly adopted.  The nomenclature of various degrees in agriculture and allied sciences be made uniform across the ICAR-AU system as per the recommendations of the committee (Annexure I & II).  Since some of the qualifications for Agricultural Extension discipline have been phased out, viz. Veterinary Extension/Dairy Extension/Fisheries Extension/Agricultural Communication in Agricultural Sciences by the Dr. Paroda Committee for review of ARS Disciplines, similar analogy should have been applied for the qualifications recommended for Agricultural Economics discipline at Annexure-III of the Report. The matter needs to be relooked by the Committee/ICAR.  In light of the recommendations of Dr. R.S. Paroda Committee for ARS, the cut-off dates for phasing-out the disciplines, which are to be merged, may be decided by the respective Agricultural Universities in a manner that does not adversely affect the students who are already admitted in such disciplines/subjects. Further, the committee was of the view that since B.Sc. (Hons.) Agriculture is now a four years' degree programme across the ICAR-AU system, and students undergo mandatory RAWE and experiential learning programme, therefore the same may be considered as a professional degree. The committee advocated the implementation of these recommendations towards resolving the ambiguities arising on account of heterogeneous nomenclature of essential qualifications and degree programmes existing in AUs/NARS and bringing uniformity at the national level. Agenda 7: The option of Hindi medium in higher education in agriculture as per the recommendation of Committee of Parliament on Official Languages The Parliamentary Committee of Official Languages has recommended that:  In addition to English, Hindi and other Indian languages will be made medium of teaching at the level of higher education.  Option of Hindi medium in recruitment and entrance examination in agriculture and engineering may be provided.  All Vice Chancellors are therefore, requested to initiate appropriate action accordingly. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8: IAUA Agenda items Agenda 8.1: Identifying areas of Excellence of SAUs based on Novel Strengths. The report of the Dr. S. S. Chahal committee was presented. The committee in consultation with the universities has shortlisted the centers for Niche Area of Excellence. The universities may submit up to two proposals under NAE as per NAE guidelines to ICAR for further action.