 The Indian government has immediately reacted to the emergency and reported a $22 billion help bundle, which incorporates nourishment and money moves. A few state governments have reported their help bundles. The focal government's alleviation bundle, called Pradhan Mantri Garib Kalyan Yojana (Prime Minister's arrangement for the prosperity of poor people), is planned for giving security nets to that hit the hardest by the COVID-19 lockdown. In any case, it is deficient contrasted with the gigantic size of the issue. Nobel Prize market analysts Esther Duflo and Abhijit Banerji state that the administration ought to have been a lot bolder with the bundle's social exchange plans. The $22 billion in spending is just 0.85% of India's GDP. This is a lot of lower than the bundles passed by the United States, Europe, and some Asian nations. India should think greater, and be spending in any event 4% to 5% of GDP. The focal and state governments must spend increasingly, regardless of whether there is a one-time climb in the monetary shortage. VIII. The following are some extra estimates required notwithstanding the administration bundle: Nomadic laborers: There are around 40-50 million occasional vagrant specialists in India. Lately, worldwide media have communicated pictures of a huge number of transient specialists from a few states walking for a significant distance and miles on roadways; some strolled in excess of 1000 kilometers to come back to their home towns. They ought to be given both money moves and nutritious nourishment. COVID-19 is an extraordinary test for India; its enormous populace and the economy's reliance on casual work make lockdowns and other social separating measures immensely problematic. The focal and state governments have perceived the test and reacted forcefully—however this reaction ought to be only the start. India must be set up to scale it up as situations develop, facilitating the monetary effects through much more noteworthy open program backing and approaches that keep markets working. During these difficult occasions, how does Indian Agriculture react to the emergency and how do government estimates influence 140 million homestead families the nation over and from that point sway the economy of a significant nation in the creating scene? We evaluate the prompt difficulties that COVID19 has presented to the ranch area and recommend alleviation measures to guarantee an economical nourishment framework in the post-emergency period. Following the across the country lockdown was reported, the Indian Finance Minister announced an INR 1.7 trillion bundle, for the most part, to secure the helpless segments (counting ranchers) from any unfavorable effects of the Corona pandemic. The declaration, among a huge number of advantages, contained a development arrival of INR 2000 to financial balances of ranchers as pay support under the PM-KISAN conspire.