 Development of innovative products includes value-added eggs products with cereals like raghi or millets, for blending the egg-based protein with cereals, for formulating nutrient enriched egg products. Such innovative approach can open newer avenues of utilizing eggs especially in summer season when egg prices are lower as well as for generating employment. Egg products like Japanese quail pickled egg, salted chicken egg, egg rasmalai, instant emu egg noodle, etc. have been developed and commercialized. 7.5. Value-added dairy products and technologies Indian dairy industry contributes around 23% of global milk production, with 35% level of processing and valued at Rs. 11356 billion in 2020, which is expected to grow at the rate of 15.4% during 2021-26. With changing scenario in demography, consumer preference for quality products; “Product diversification” is the key for long-term sustainability of industry. Dairy Beverages as Healthy Drinks: With growing demand for pasteurized or UHT processed liquid milk, to fortify milk with micronutrients like calcium, iron, zinc, vit. A and vit. D without altering the organoleptic quality of fluid milk, the beverages like Flavoured milk or drink in combination with natural fruits juices or pulps, high milk protein drinks, fermented dairy beverages with unique microbial starter and herb-milk beverage have been developed. Likewise, whey a major by-product of dairy industry (1 Mt annually) containing 50% of milk nutrients is converted into beverages. The manufacturing technology can Indian Agriculture after Independence 160 be adopted at small or industrial scale/start-ups without any newer addition to existing infrastructure. Hands-on-training imparted to entrepreneurs resulted in effective utilization of whey at small scale processing units. Innovative Traditional Dairy Products (TDPs): These are important part of our religious ceremonies, festivals and occupy a prime position in the processed dairy products market. According to an estimate, about 30-35% of the milk is converted into TDPs the market size of which is three-time bigger than liquid milk and 100-200% value addition is achieved by converting raw milk into TDPs. However, TDPs manufactured at small and medium enterprises suffer from the problem of non-uniformity, poor shelf-life, higher calorific value, and lack of mechanization. Several dairy giants have ventured into the commercial production of TDPs with an aim to capture the market opportunities among the Indian diaspora globally. Long-life and convenient ready-to-make mixes for paneer, milk cake, rasmalai, basundi, kheer, payasam, kunda, have been developed for such enterprises. Considering the growing demand of ghee as cooking medium within the country and middle-east nations, technology for low cholesterol ghee and Arjuna herbal ghee is launched. Manufacturing technologies for several region-specific TDPs like chhanapodo, bhapadahi, mishtidoi, doda barfi, halwasan, and lalpeda etc.