 It is believed that this species is a native of north China. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 390 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 263 Zyzyphus mauritiana Indian ber H­Ber B­Ber M­Bera G­Bor Tel­Reegu T­Elandai Kan­Elanji Mal­Elemtha O­Backoli Fruits are good source of Vitamin C (96 to 205 mg/100g). The fruits of wild trees are considered cooling anodyne and tonic. They enter into preparation of joshanda, a medicine used in chest complaints. The kernels are reported to have a sedative effect and are recommended as a soporific. They are prescribed to stop nausea, vomiting and relief from abdominal pain in pregnancy. They are also given as an antidote to aconite­poisoning and used in poultices and other application for wounds. The leaves are considered to be a good fodder for cattle and goats. The bark is sometime used in India for tanning purposes. The leaves are eaten with catechu as an astringent. They are regarded as diphoretic and are prescribed for typhoid in children. They are also used as paultice. Decoction of bark is used for the treatment of diarrhoea and dysentery. A small evergreen variable size, upto 15m or even more in height, with a spreading crown and stipular spines, found both wild and cultivated through out greater part of India, ascending to an altitude of 1500 m in the Himalayas. Low shrubby form is common. The flowers are greenish­yellow in axillary cyme. the old leaves falll during March–April and simultaneously the new leaves appear. The flowers appear during April to October. The plants are commercially grown in Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. A­ Assamese, B­Bengali, G­Gujrati, H­Hindi, Kan­Kannada, M­Marathi, Mal­Malayalam, O­Oriya, P­Punjabi, T­Tamil, Tel­Telugu 391 For outlining the geographical indicators of the plant materials, the following literature were consulted Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1948. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 1: 1–254. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1950. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 2: 1–427. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1952. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 3: 1–236. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1956. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 4: 1–287. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1959. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 5: 1–332. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1962. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 6: 1–483. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1966. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 7: 1–330. Council of Scientific and Industrial Research. 1969. The Wealth of India, Raw Materials, Sastri B.N. (ed), 8: 1–394.