 2021 Fish health management in aquaculture (coinciding with ‘Kisan Diwas’) yy Fish disease management yy Aquatic Animal disease surveillance CMFRI, CIFRI, NBFGR, DCFR, CIFE, CIFA, CIBA & CIFT yy Webinar on Sustainable aquaculture through effec- tive fish health management yy Awareness campaigns & fish health camps yy Interactive meetings with fish farmers/ stakeholders 6 Week 51 28 Feb. – 6 Mar. 2022 Non- conventional aquaculture systems yy Ornamental fish culture yy Seaweed culture yy Pearl culture CMFRI, CIFRI, NBFGR, DCFR, CIFE, CIFA, CIBA & CIFT yy Webinar on Prospects of non- conventional aquaculture for income security yy Stakeholders consultation, Training 7 Week 66 13-19 Jun. 2022 Participatory ecosystem management for sustainable fisheries and biodiversity conservation yy Participatory ecosystem management. yy Biodiversity conservation for sustainable use CMFRI, CIFRI, NBFGR, DCFR, CIFE, CIFA, CIBA & CIFT yy Seminar/ Webinar on Participatory management of open-water fisheries yy Awareness programmes biodiversity & conservation Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav Commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence 23 Sl Week No of India@75 Celebrations Theme Sub-theme Institutes Responsible Activities 8 Week 70 11-17 Jul. 2022 Emerging Aquaculture Systems and Practices (coinciding with National Fish Farmers Day) Intensive and industrial aquaculture systems CMFRI, CIFRI, NBFGR, DCFR, CIFE, CIFA, CIBA & CIFT yy Seminar/ Webinar on Emerging Aquaculture Systems and Practices yy Scientists’- Farmers’- Industries Interaction Meets 9 Week 73 25-31 Jul. 2022 Fish as Health Food yy Fish for human health & nutri- tion yy Nutraceuticals & Nutritional products from fish CMFRI, CIFRI, NBFGR, DCFR, CIFE, CIFA, CIBA & CIFT yy Webinar on Fish for Health yy Interaction Meets yy Exhibitions & Fish Carnivals B. Lecture Series yy 75 lectures have been planned, one in every week, during 2021-22 (1st April, 2021 to 15 August 2022). Global experts in various domains of agriculture and on topical issues shall be invited to deliver the lectures. The Noble Laureates, Professors from Global Universities, Experts from International Institutes dealing with Agriculture, World Food Laureates, and experts for personality development, skill development, successful entrepreneurs and spiritual leaders etc. shall be requested to deliver the lectures. The mode of lectures will be virtual till the COVID-19 pandemic normalizes. yy The expected audience is 10000 for each lecture through video and live streaming. A dedicated website shall be made operational for registration of the participants populated with the details about the speakers, topics and their summary. The video of the lecture shall be Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav Commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence 24 uploaded on the official website of ICAR and live streaming channels ICAR. These will be one-hour lecture including Q-A Session. The 75 lectures shall be compiled in the form of a publication.