 Moving forward, it is essential to encourage collaboration among technology developers, agricultural specialists, and farmers to devise customized solutions that tackle specific challenges, thereby fostering a more efficient and resilient agricultural landscape for future generations. For further interaction, please write to: Dr R. N. Padaria (Joint Director Extension), ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author: rabindra@iari.res.in Darjeeling mandarin app Dolichos bean (Bush): VRBSEM 3-Days to first picking: 80–85 days, Peak fruiting period: December to March. DYMV disease free in cropping period with temperature tolerance up to 35°C. Yield: 360 q/ha in five pickings. Identified for cultivation in Zone VI (Rajasthan, Gujarat, Haryana and Delhi), Zone VII (Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Goa) and Zone VIII (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Puducherry). Indian (Dolichos) bean/Sem: Arka Neelachal Pushti, is high yielding, pole type, round podded variety. The pods are rich in protein (4.61 g/100 g) and micronutrients (iron: 15 ppm, zinc 37 ppm). Duration of crop is 95 days from sowing to green harvest. Rabi season is ideal for its cultivation in Eastern India. Average yield is 24 tonnes/ha in 120 days. French bean (Bush): VRFBB 91 is bush-type, early, short duration, flowers at 32–35 days after sowing. Pods are green and bright, fleshy, tender, straight, cylindrical and free from parchment. Bears about 20–25 pods/plant. Resistant to sclerotinia rot (Sclerotinia sclerotiorum). Tender pod yield potential is 125–150 q/ha. Recommended for Zone I: Humid Western Himalayan Region (Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand). Varieties of vegetable crops for release and notification Source: ICAR Annual Report 2021-22 Indian Horticulture 70 AI apps for dissemination of horticultural information Proper dissemination of information to the stakeholders is as important as information generation. While traditional channels of dissemination are still effective, farmers often use google and such other search engines for their information needs. In recent times, even WhatsApp/Facebook groups have become the source of information where-in, experienced farmers and experts are the members. In addition, currently, there is a new trend of AI and related technologies showing promise in dissemination of agricultural information. Mainly they are deployed in diagnosis of pests, diseases and nutrient deficiencies besides suggestion of remedial measures; synthesis of information and delivery of customized information to the user. A brief information on the apps related to these areas is provided in this article. Technology G. S. Mohana*, V. B. Patel and J. D. Adiga AI enabled diagnosis of pests, diseases and nutrient deficiencies Most often, farmers need expert advice for proper management of pests and diseases affecting their crops in addition to nutrient deficiencies.