 (3) If on the expiry of the period of probation referred to in Sub-Rule (1) or of the extended period under Sub-Rule (2), as the case may be, the Controlling Authority is of the opinion that a scientist is not fit for perma- nent appointment, or if at any time during probation or extension, is satis- fied that he will not be fit for permanent appointment on the expiry of such period of probation or extension, the scientist may be discharged or reverted to his substantive post or subjected to such orders as may be passed by the Controlling Authority. 14 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 15. Powers of the Controlling Authority Without prejudice to the generality of the powers conferred on it, the Controlling Authority shall be competent— (1) to exclude a post or posts in any grade mentioned in Rule 6 from the purview of the Service. (2) to decide in consultation with the Board that any particular vacancy or vacancies shall be filled by direct recruitment through the Board. (3) to prescribe the minimum qualification for induction into the S grade as envisaged in Rule 11 (2) above. (4) to make temporary arrangements to fill any vacancy for appoint- ment of a scientist outside the Service for a period not exceeding six months, provided that the Controlling Authority may delegate the power at its discretion to the'Director-General, ICAR. (5) to fill any vacancy in any grade of the Service by temporary appointment of a qualified scientist from outside the Council for a period not exceeding 2 years at a time, provided that (a) the total number of vacancies so filled shall not exceed at any time 5 per cent of the authorised strength of the Service; (b) no such appointment shall be made except in consultation with the Board. 16. Deputation The Controlling Authority may, in the interest of agricultural research and education and development work, depute from time to time the scientists from the Service to work in posts under the Central or any State Govern- ment, Agricultural University or elsewhere (including assignments abroad) for a prescribed period or periods. 17. Reservation for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes, etc. Nothing in these rules shall affect reservations and other concessions required to be provided for Scheduled Castes and Scheduled Tribes and/ other special categories of persons in accordance with the orders issued by the Central Government frcwn time to time in this regard. 18. Pay fixation The pay of a scientist appointed to any Grade in the Service shall be fixed in accordance with such orders as may be applicable to Council's employees from time to time. 19. Merit Promotion and Advance Increments There shall be a system of merit promotion from one grade to the ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 15 next higher grade and advance increment within the same grade in the manner specified below : (1) The number of posts sanctioned shall relate to the total number in the group of grades as a whole, and not to each individual grade.