 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 106 New epidemiological observations were made upon correlation between the antibody status of the animals and results of NS3 RT-PCR. Correlation between the two tests on animals was carried out in identified groups of the animals, viz. ● Antibody positive and virus (NS3 sequence) negative (41; 14%) ● Antibody negative and virus positive (89; 30%) ● Both antibody and virus positive (43; 14%) ● Both antibody and virus negative (125; 42%) This segregation of animals was significant as it revealed complex epidemiology of BVDV infection in the country. It will be of immense help during implementation of BVD control programmes. Animals in group 3 are possibly persistently infected ones and subsequently exposed to heterologus ncp strain(s) of the virus later in the life, resulting in seroconversion. Moreover, ncp BVD virus could be isolated in EBTr cells from serum of these animals tested at random. Partial nucleotide sequence of selected NS3 amplicons identified two different virus populations in an adult buffalo of this group; and one of these sequences was similar to that obtained from an antibody-negative and virus-positive cattle bull in group 2. This finding supplements the observation that a PI animal can also be antibody-positive due to re-infection with a heterologous ncp strain of the virus. Therefore, the results suggested that during implementation of BVD control programme, antibody positive animal should not be ignored as merely immune ones, as they also could be persistently infected like many antibody negative (immuno-tolerant) animals. The results showed that investigation on prevalence of BVDV infection should not be restricted to serum antibody screening as it could not reflect true status of a herd. Isolation of the virus was achieved from serum of seven antibody positive and six antibody negative animals at random in BT and EBTr cell lines maintained in horse serum. Propagation of the virus from passage 1 to 5 was checked by NS3 RT- PCR and amplicon concentrations increased gradually with the increase in passage number. Specificity was checked by nick translated probe derived from a reference NS3 clone. Selected NS3 amplicons were cloned into pGEMT/pUC vectors. Five recombinant plasmids from each clone were partially sequenced using 33p-gamma ATP labeled primer. The sequences were aligned with reference exotic sequences. The Indian sequences showed variations with the exotic sequences of NADL and SD-1 strains. However, DNA probes derived from a NS3 clone of German origin could hybridize with the Indian sequences both at 42° and 65°C. Some important observations were made upon comparison of the Indian sequences. Three sequences derived from two NS3 amplicons were compared. One of the sequences originated from a bull in Sabaramati (Gujarat) and the other two sequences were from a buffalo in Bhuj (Gujarat).