 Indian Sugarcane Research First Institute, Lucknow 2. Indian Agriculture Statistics Research Second Institute, Pusa, New Delhi Institutes/Centres of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region 1. Central Cotton Research First Institute, Nagpur 2. National Integrated Pest Management Research Institute, Second Pusa, New Delhi Institutes/Centres of ‘C’ Region 1. Central Marine Fisheries First Research Institute, Cochin. 2. National Institute of Natural Second Fibres Engineering and Technology, Kolkata (ii) Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika Purskar yojana: This scheme is applicable for the Official Language Magazines published by various ICAR Institutes. Under this Scheme, awards are given in two categories, one is for A, and B region institutes and other is for institutes located in ‘C’ region for the best magazine. In accordance with the instructions/orders of Official Language Department, Ministry of Home Affairs, 10 Institutes were inspected during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed during the inspection. This also includes inspections of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language. House magazine of ICAR headquarters Rajbhasha Alok depicting the Hindi activities of different Institutes was published and released on 16 July 2019 on the occasion of the Foundation Day of the Council. Various training programmes of public interest and useful for the farmers were organized in Hindi and regional languages by various ICAR Institutes. Besides all materials to be presented in the Parliament, works related to annual action report, review of grants, governing body, standing finance committee, Parliamentary Committee of Ministry of Agriculture and ICAR-NDRI PhD Scholar awarded first prize in BRICS Young Innovator Prize Mr Ravi Prakash, Ph.D. Scholar from ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute has been awarded First Prize in 4th BRICS-Young Scientist Forum (YSF)–2019 held at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil on 8 November, 2019. Mr. Ravi Prakash is carrying out research i n Southern Regional Station of ICAR-NDRI Bengaluru, under the guidance of Dr. Menon Rekha Ravindra, Principal Scientist (Dairy Engineering). He developed a field level cooling unit, which can cool the milk while milking the animal. The unit can cool 5 litre of milk from a temperature of 37°C to less than 7°C in 30 min and uses the nano-fluid based phase change material. The innovation would be of great help to millions of dairy farmers across the country to cool the milk at farm level, thus enhancing the quality of milk across the supply chain. The competition was organized at Rio de Janeiro, Brazil during 6–8 November 2019 and there were 100 participants from BRICS (20 each from Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) countries below the age of 35 years which included Ph D Students, post-doctoral scholars and assistant professors.