 Deficiencies and nutritional significance of vitamins and trace elements in domestic animals and poultry, nutraceuticals & probiotics. General description of nature of hormones, receptors and mechanisms of their action. Metabolic function of different hormones and associated disorders due to hypo or hyper secretions of major endocrine glands viz. pituitary, thyroid, adrenal, pancreas and gonads. Unit 8 Blood composition and biochemical constituents of erythrocytes, leucocytes and platelets. Important plasma proteins and their functions. Haemoglobin in oxygen and carbon dioxide transport. Role of kidneys in acid base balance. Composition and metabolism of muscle, connective, tissue, cartilage, bone, nervous, tissue, adipose tissue and mammary tissue. Clinical significance of iron, iodine calcium and phosphorus metabolism in domestic animals and poultry. Biochemical tests for hepatic and renal functions. Urine composition and analysis. Unit 9 Basic principles and use of latest photometric, chromatographic, electrophoretic and radioisotopic methods of biochemical analysis. Methods of isolation, purification and characterization of proteins, DNA and RNA. Basic principles of RIA, ELISA, PCR, RFLP and DNA fingerprinting NA probes, vectors, microarray, imaging, applications of nanotechnology, proteomics. Determination of enzymes, hormones, vitamins and other biochemical constituents with special reference to disease diagnosis in domestic animals. Unit 10 Environmental pollution in relation to animal health and production. Biotechnology in pollution control. Biochemical basis of pollutant tolerance, host defence mechanisms including antigenic and non-antigenic interactions. Free radicals, carcinogenesis and role of liver and kidneys in detoxification. Oncogenes and mechanism of immunosuppression in cancer therapy and organ transplantation. 6.4 ANIMAL BIOTECHNOLOGY Unit 1: Biomolecules and their Interaction Relevant to Biology Structure and function of biomolecules (carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, nucleic acids and vitamins). Stabilizing interactions (Van der Waals, electrostatic, hydrogen bonding, hydrophobic interaction, etc.). Basics of biophysical chemistry (pH, buffer, reaction kinetics, thermodynamics, colligative properties). Principles of catalysis, enzymes and enzyme kinetics, enzyme regulation, mechanism of enzyme catalysis, isozymes. Conformation of proteins (Ramachandran plot, secondary structure, domains, motif and folds). Types of nucleic acids (helix A, B, Z DNA), (types of coding and noncoding RNA). 63 Stability of proteins and nucleic acids. Metabolism of carbohydrates, lipids, amino acids and nucleotides. Unit 2: Cell Biology Membrane structure and function (Structure of model membrane, lipid bilayer and membrane protein diffusion, osmosis, ion channels, active transport, membrane pumps, mechanism of sorting and regulation of intracellular transport, electrical properties of membranes).