 Hence, appropriate interventions are to be formulated and implemented to empower the farmers of the region for the better integration of available technologies for the management of their coconut gardens to realise higher productivity and income. Fragmented holdings Coconut cultivation in the Northeastern states is mostly confined to fragmented small and marginal holdings. These holdings suffer due to the resource limitations, both bio-physical as well as socio-economic resources. Hence, individual farmers are unable to adopt latest technologies for enhancing productivity and income Intercropping of flower plants under coconut garden November–December 2023 91 from their coconut holdings. Group approaches are to be facilitated among the small and marginal coconut growers to overcome the resource limitations in the fragmented holdings and to better utilize technologies to achieve higher productivity and income. Three–tier FPO set up consisting of Coconut Producer Societies (CPSs), Coconut Producer Federations (CPFs) and Coconut Producer Companies (CPCs) is being facilitated in coconut sector by the Coconut Development board (CDB). These are formed with the main objective of socio-economic development of farmers through productivity improvement, cost reduction, efficient aggregation, processing for value addition, better by- product utilization and efficient marketing of the produce. So far 29 CPSs have been registered in Assam under the CDB. These FPOs are to be empowered to take up group initiatives to strengthen the coconut sector. There is a need to facilitate formation of more number of FPOs in coconut sector by development and extension agencies in other Northeastern states also. Extension support for scientific coconut cultivation The low level of awareness and knowledge of farmers is one of the reasons for the low level of adoption of recommended scientific practices of coconut cultivation resulting in poor productivity of coconut in the region. Participatory extension interventions ensuring the active involvement of farmers by the concerned agencies including Coconut Development Board and State Agriculture/Horticulture Departments for the capacity development of farmers to enhance their knowledge about scientific coconut cultivation thus assume much significance. Since coconut is not a major crop in the region, only a few schemes are implemented by the State Agriculture/Horticulture Departments to provide extension support and to provide incentives to coconut growers and other stakeholders. Considering the vast scope for expanding area under coconut in the region and the fact that there are many farmers already taken up coconut farming, providing extension support to the growers is highly relevant to motivate the farming community. Promoting coconut-based cropping/ farming systems In the Northeastern states, coconut is mostly cultivated as a monocrop in the small and marginal holdings.