00 lakh plants of strawberry and earned a gross income of `10.00 lakh, by selling of plants to the farmers during 2021. He has branded his strawberry as ‘Shiv Shakti’, and started selling with proper modern-day attractive packing. Adding an innovative enterprise to his farm has enormously increased his income. With an increased income, he not only has improved and secured his livelihood, but also has generated employment for his family members. He has also improved his social status with more acceptance, recognition and respect as an innovative young farmer, as he is the first farmer in the hilly area of Chittorgarh district to cultivate strawberry, successfully. Now more than 15 farmers from Rajasthan and adjoining state of Madhya Pradesh have been motivated to start cultivation of strawberry, and they approached him for planting materials and cultivation technology. For strawberry cultivation, several farmers visited his farm, and took technical advices regarding cultivation on large scale, on a sustainable basis. Success Story Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 A view of strawberry cultivation by Shri Nemichand Dhakar A view of strawberries harvested by Shri Nemichand Dhakar Indian Horticulture 26 Surface Covering Protective Vegetable Nursery for Hot Arid Climate The north-western part of India is distinct for the promotion of arid horticulture owing to vast land resources and scope for cultivation of daily-need vegetable crop plants. Tomato, chilli and brinjal are high in consumption and abundant in demand. The unavailability of quality and disease-free seedlings during the transplanting period is a big problem and results in poor harvest. Extreme high and low-temperature condition is the prime constraint for the raising of seedlings in time with common practices of nursery. In this context, ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner has developed SOP’s as a package of practices and defined as technology “Surface covering protective vegetable nursery scheme” for seedling production year-round. It is a local fabrication, simple, cost-efficient and an excellent mechanism to escape from the severity of temperature. Coat-type frames are arranged on raised beds (50-60 sq. m plot area and a pair bed of 25 × 01 m) and transparent polythene (120-200 gauge) and 40 mesh insect-proof nylon-net sheet is used to cover the structures in respect of winter and summer season sowing under hot arid climate. V EGETABLE nursery management is a well- established process for raising crop-specific seedlings and handling them before the field transplanting. Tomato, chilli and brinjal are important vegetable crops of the north-western part of India, and thus, require quality and timely seedlings during the variable transplanting periods (January-April and June-August) for cultivating healthy harvest concerning season and region. ICAR-CIAH INITIATIVE The north-western area of the hot arid region experiences extreme temperature conditions i. e.