 Feed additive containing nitrate, garlic and clove inhibited methane production by 25% at high roughage and 19% at low roughage diet. Supplementation of both tea seed saponin (0.4% of DMI) and tea seed @ 5.2% (dose equivalent to 0.4% saponin) significantly improved growth rate, FCR and N balance in experimental Gaddi goats. Tea seed saponin supplementation was more effective in modifying the lipid profile as compared to tea seed in Gaddi goats. Out of the eight commonly cultivated grasses of North Western Himalayan Region, based on nutrient composition, in vitro digestibility and metabolisable energy value, Avena sativa JHO 822 ranked the highest and Chrysopogon fulvus the lowest. Supplementation of a symbiotic containing Lactobacillus johnsonii CPN23 and Jerusalem artichoke Biogeography of gut microbes A cattle rumen microbial clone library was generated to study the bacterial diversity. The most abundant in cattle rumen was genus Prevotella (33%) followed by Bacteroides (28%), Streptococcus (11%) and Clostridium (10%). Firmicutes was the major phylum with Prevotella, Lachnospiracea incertae sedis, Butyrivibrio, Clostridium, Ruminococcus, and Fibrobacter the predominant genera in buffalo. Rarefaction analysis of abundant operational taxonomic units (OTUs) having at least three members indicated 99.8% coverage in cattle and 78.9% coverage in buffalo at putative species level. Eight mimosine degrading and three sulphate reducing bacteria from rumen were isolated from buffaloes. These findings may open new directions for further characterization of rumen bacterial communities. Whole metagenomic profile, generated to study the microbial population and carbohydrate active enzymes in crossbred steers, revealed that glycoside hydrolases were the most abundant followed by glycosyl transferases, carbohydrate binding modules and carbohydrate esterases in cattle rumen metagenome. Microbes with ability to degrade plant fiber, tannins, oxalates and eupotox were isolated from the rumen of migratory goats and sheep. Phylogenetic classification of bacterial community in cattle rumen using SILVA database DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 71 LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 72 indicated positive impact on the fibre utilization in dogs. Cattle Adult Frieswal bulls fed increased concentration of Zn from 40.0 to 80 ppm showed significantly increased sperm concentration (million/ml) from 837.88 in diet 1 to 913.65 in diet 2 and 965.08 in good bulls. Post thaw motility (PTM%) also increased significantly from 46.04 to 49.93. Distillers’ grains (DG) are considered good sources of protein for dairy cattle because fiber, protein and fat are concentrated approximately 3-fold in distillers grains (DG) when starch is fermented to produce ethanol. Replacement of concentrate mixture by rice based condensed distillery syrup (RCDS) @ 15% (on DM basis) reduced the feed cost without affecting the milk production.