 The university curriculum also needs to be revisited to address the emerging needs and aspirations of present-day youth and markets. Youth-Agriculture Nexus The committee has recommended the development of a new research agenda for Youth- Agriculture Nexus with the primary aim to (i) delineate different contexts for youth-oriented agricultural research, (ii) identify opportunities for young people’s engagement in agricultural research and innovation for development (ARI4D), and (iii) determine future pathway of youth for attaining sustainable agricultural growth and income. Plough-to-Plate initiative The committee felt that the involvement of youth in ‘Plough-to-Plate’ initiative can help in doubling farmers’ income. Greater thrust is required to be given to networking for knowledge sharing/dissemination, participation of youth in out-scaling of innovations through their validation using technology parks/innovation platforms, use of ICT, creation of agri-clinics, supporting mentoring/hand-holding, and awareness regarding intellectual property rights (IPRs). ‘Youth as a farmer’ to ‘Youth as value chain developer’ The committee has recommended the need for paradigm shift from ‘youth as a farmer’ to ‘youth as value chain developer’. To provide better economic opportunities for rural youth in the changing agricultural scenario, the mindset of youth needs to move beyond the plot/ field level agriculture i.e. from production to post-production level and to link with market for better income opportunities. The combination of agricultural value chains, technology and entrepreneurship will open up tremendous economic opportunities for youth in both the farm and non-farm sectors. Therefore, they need to be encouraged to set-up agri-service centres to offer custom-hire services for small and marginal farmers for mechanizing their farm operations to enhance production at reduced cost. Institutionalization of incentives and Award/reward system To inspire and attract youth to adopt agriculture as a profession for happy living, incentives Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 62 and awards/rewards need to be institutionalized. This should be a strategic priority at the local, state, and country level to ensure youth-led inclusive growth in agriculture. Successful entrepreneurs as role models for youth The successful entrepreneurs need to be identified and must be encouraged to act as role models for capacity development/technical back-stopping of other youth. A compendium of youth-led success stories/case studies of young agricultural entrepreneurs and innovators in various sectors of agriculture from different eco-regions of the country may be prepared on priority and made accessible to others. Agri-Youth Innovation Corpus Fund As part of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and enhance rural employment through special projects, the private sector is required to play a proactive role in creating much needed ‘Agri-Youth Innovation Corpus Fund.