 • The farmer has created employment opportunities where two persons are being engaged for managing the farm. • The farmer is linked with the department of Veterinary, KVK and ICAR for providing all needed technical support. • The IFS farm has developed into a resource centre not only for technical demonstration but also as a centre for supply of quality piglets, seeds and planting materials. Indian Farming 50 November 2024 Enhancing farm income and livelihood security through water management and crop diversification Debabrata Sethi, Sumanta Kumar Mishra*, Prabhakar Nanda, Amod Kumar Thakur, Isha Anindita Sahoo and Sivaprasad Mahanta ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 023 This success story highlights the transformative impact of Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) of the ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management on Smt Gitanjali Naik, a tribal farm woman from Keonjhar district, Odisha. Initially facing challenges such as low crop productivity, poor irrigation facilities, and a lack of crop diversification, Smt Naik's life changed drastically through the adoption of scientific water management, crop diversification, and modern farming techniques. By implementing practices like hybrid rice cultivation, vegetable farming with drip irrigation, mulching, and the rearing of livestock, she increased her annual income from `19,000-24,000 to `6,08,300 in just seven years. Her success has turned her into a role model for other farmers, and she has earned recognition, including the ‘Best Farmwoman Award’ in 2022. Her story underscores the potential of agricultural innovations to empower farmers, especially women, in tribal areas. Keywords: Crop diversification, Crop rotation, Farm woman, Livelihood security, Farmer FIRST, Tribal, Water management T HE Agro-Climatic Zone of Keonjhar district comprises the North Central Plateau and North Eastern Coastal Plains. Out of thirteen blocks in the district, Saharpada block is predominantly dominated by tribal population constituting more than 70% and the area is primarily rainfed having undulating topography. It falls under Baitarani river catchment area and the block is categorized as a drought prone block as irrigation facility through any sources is almost negligible. The soils are predominantly red lateritic type with 1,488 mm average annual rainfall. The Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) interventions were designed and implemented since 2016-17 in the Khuntapingu watershed of Saharpada block by selecting a cluster of three contiguous villages namely, Khuntapingu, Jamuda and Malarpada having total geographical area of ~ 500 ha, with a broad objective to improve crop and water productivity, and to enhance livelihood security in the tribal-dominated paddy fallow rainfed agro-ecosystem of the state. The selected cluster comprises 525 households of which 85% households are marginal and small farmers. Most of the households were schedule tribe, schedule caste and landless.