 • Hot spots of different diseases‐ blast and cercospora leaf spot of finger millet, head smut of kodo millet, downy mildew of foxtail millet and grain smut were identified. • Spraying of SAAF @ 0.2 % at 50% flowering and one more need based spray after 10 days was effective in controlling neck and finger blast. www.icar.org.in 10 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science • Choosing resistant variety and treating seeds with carbendazim @ 2 g/kg seed with recommended inputs effectively controlled the blast incidence and resulted in higher yield of finger millet; next best was selection of resistant variety for sowing. • In foxtail millet sowing early in July minimized the incidence of blast and rust. • Isolation, purification and characterization of phytotoxin and phytoalexin was helped in rapid diagnostic methods for resistance evaluation. • The roles of phenols, PAL, PPO, Chitinase, β‐13‐gluconase activities has been established in disease resistance. • Varieties resistant to insect pests were identified in all the small millets. • Intercropping/sprinkling of Niger/mustard helps in enhancing the population of parasites and predators in small millets. • A grain storage pest Rhyzopertha dominica was found for the first time feeding on stored ragi. Crop Physiology • Screening of finger millet germplasm for higher water use efficiency, root traits has shown that AKP 2, A 404 are superior types. • Finger millet varieties Co 12, Paiyur 1 and GPU 28 were found tolerant to salinity. • Exogenously supplied calcium was able to partially nullify the adverse effect of sodium stress. • Processing and Value Addition • Decortication of finger millet has opened many ways of making new products from finger millet. • Par boiling of small millets also provided the opportunities for food and industrial utilization. TECHNOLOGY TRANSFER • Recommendations on package of practices formulated based on three to four years of research and having impact on the production have been taken to farmers field for demonstration these technologies small millets production could be enhanced to meet the projected requirements at the National level. During the last five years viz., 2000‐04, 2285 farmers were involved in the conduct of Frontline demonstrations representing different socio‐economic strata in an area of 865 ha in the country. • The impact of these demonstrations indicated vast potential for increase in yield due to new recommended technology. The yield level and income of farmers could be substantially increased by the adoption of recommended technology. Enhancement in yield was around 82 % in finger millet, 95% in little millet, 83% in kodo millet, 43% in foxtail millet, 76% in proso millet & 82 % in barnyard millet. • Small millets despite low genetic potential, are grown because of socio‐economic conditions of the farmers and assured income under low input conditions.