 Delicate spines present on the covering of imli like peas locally called baidanka (Mucuna pruriens) are fed to the calves. About 25 g spines are removed from the peas (Mucuna pruriens) with a scalpel and are collected on a sheet Shri Krishna, S/o Ghasi Ram, village Khai Khera, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Mahipat Sinh M Gadhvi, Muwada, Mahedabad, dist. Kheda (Gujarat) Ms Shantamma (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Hemanta Pradhan, Jakeikala, Banaigarh, dist. Sundargarh (Orissa) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3121 Treatment to control internal parasites in calves and adults 3 122 Control of worms in animal stomach by using radish leaves .3123 Treatment for stomach worms in animals of paper. These spines are mixed with 50 g jaggery, and a paste is prepared. The prepared paste is fed to the calves in the evening once a day for 1-2 days. The worms are excreted along with bowel and the animal gets relieved the next morning. Keywords: baidanka, jaggery, spines, calves, worms In infant calves worms develop in their stomach and that results in weakness and poor growth. Villagers of the area are using these ITKs to control internal parasites in calves. 1. About 200 g mahuwa fruits, 100 ml liquor and 500 ml water are taken and kept for fermentation for 3 days. On the fourth day this fermented mixture is given to the calf in 2 dosages. Worms come out. 2. Green stem bark of sambri (200 g) from standing tree is chopped and is boiled inl litre water. It is then cooled, filtered and given to the animal in 2 dosages daily. Internal parasites of matured animals come out. Keywords: internal parasites, mahuwa fruits, sambri tree bark People of village Nitoie in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh use radish leaves to kill the worms in the stomach of animals. About 100 g radish leaves are given orally to the affected animal daily. Keywords: worms, stomach, radish leaves A mixture of 250 g sugar solution and 0.5 litre butter milk is given twice daily to the animal to control stomach worms. This ITK is practised in village Shri Heera Lai, S/o Shri Kamla ji Kumhar, Damana (Umra khapra), Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajas than) Shri Khubi Ram, S/o Shri Hulasi Ram, village Nitoie, Bhamora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Ms Natho, w/o Shri All Hasan, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3124 Treatment of worms in animal stomach by am (peach leaves), watermelon and butter milk Bichuria in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh.