 Involving youth in e-NAM, start- up, stand-up and skill development schemes, agri-business enterprises. Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) will help in market linkages and they can get better prices for their produce, 118 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series it will also help in increasing farmers’ income. A paradigm shift from narrow focus on ‘youth as a farmer’ to ‘youth as a value-chain developer’. Creating an enabling policy environ- ment for incentives to entrepreneurs, institutional backstopping, easy and soft credit, exemption of GST on value added products, etc. will attract youth towards agriculture. Key takeaway Youth, the future of the country, need to be oriented towards agriculture by making them aware of the possibilities in agriculture as a remunerative enterprise. 119 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship TALENT SEARCH FOR MANAGING AGRICULTURE TREE C.D. Mayee Education is a comprehensive, holistic, all compassing endeavour to elevate one’s consciousness level to the point where one is able to embark on to the journey of self-development and fulfilment. The talent search is the most vital component in education. The TREE stands for Teaching, Research and Extension Education. Agricultural education has led to in enhanc- ing economic growth, removing inequality, poverty and hunger, rural development and also in reducing urban migration. The National Agricultural Research System has been a facilitator for excellent growth in food production; exploitation of newer techniques of crop improvement such as gene transfer; golden, white, blue and yellow revolution; and has created a close binding between SAUs and ICAR without any formal statutes. But its major shortfalls include: Technology vs. policy fatigue; and its quality of education is not resulting in standard scientists, teachers, extension specialists; present-day salary, promotion, recruitment also provide Dr C.D. Mayee, Former Chairman, Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB), New Delhi, is a renowned cotton scientist. He was associated with the first commercial release of Bt cotton in India from time of conduct of biosafety and bio-efficiency evaluation till its release by the Genetic Engineering Appraisal Committee. He also served Government of India as Agriculture Commissioner after a successful term as Director, ICAR-Central Institute for Cotton Research, Nagpur. 120 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series no incentives; Governance of ICAR/SAU is still bureaucratic and CEO centred; unacceptable profile for change. Talent Search by the ICAR for NARS The major focus and objectives include increasing target of growth rate; required trained manpower for TREE and develop NARS system for backstopping national efforts. The Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board is a most respectful, reliable and durable independent system for providing scientific manpower in agriculture with true national character.