 Mobile apps can help farmers track crop growth, monitor weather conditions, and receive alerts about potential threats. Market information: Apps can connect farmers with buyers and provide market price information. For example, Anarnet is an internet based electronic service offered by the APEDA to the stakeholders for facilitating testing and certification of pomegranate orchards for export from India to European Union in compliance with the standards identified by the National Referral Laboratory of ICAR-NRCG, Pune. Dalimbmitra is also an application wherein farmers can connect with pomegranate experts and get solution to their problems. SUMMARY Pomegranate is the mainstay of Indian horticulture sector yielding high monetary gains through exports. Although India has emerged as the global leader in pomegranate production, we are yet to fully utilise our potential in terms of export to global market. For better exports and even higher returns, digital technologies are revolutionizing the pomegranate industry by enhancing productivity, improving quality, and ensuring sustainability. By adopting these digital technologies, pomegranate growers can enhance productivity, improve quality, reduce cost, and ensure sustainable practices. They can also stay competitive in the global market and meet the increasing demand for high-quality, traceable fruits. As technology continues to advance, we can expect even more innovative solutions to emerge in the future. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Marathe R. A. (Director), ICAR-National Research Centre on Pomegranate, Solapur, Maharashtra 413 255. *Corresponding author: director.nrcpom@icar.gov.in Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 14 Digital viticulture: Grape farming with smart technologies Digital viticulture integrates advanced digital tools like AI, IoT, and data analytics into grape farming to optimize production, minimize environmental impact, and enhance crop quality. Key components such as IoT sensors, drone and satellite imagery, and data-driven decision support systems enable real-time monitoring and efficient management of vineyards. These innovations help address significant challenges in Indian viticulture, including water scarcity, pest and disease pressures, climate variability, labour shortages, and inconsistent market prices. Globally, countries like Spain, France, and the U.S. have advanced digital viticulture through innovations in robotics, UAVs, and precision management systems. In India, initiatives by ICAR-NRCG and partnerships with universities have begun exploring intelligent viticulture, emphasizing water-efficient irrigation, automated advisories, and stress detection in vineyards.