 Both glycoalkaloid and fatty acid fractions of the extract cause liberation of histamin from chopped lungs tissue. The beneficial effect of the drug on Bronchial asthama is attributed to deplation of stamin from the bronchial and lung tissue. Extract of whole plant shows anti-viral activity against Rani-khet disease. Very spiny diffused herb up to1.2 m tall, commonly found through out India. The flowers are blue in lateral cyme. 234 Solanum melongena Egg plant or Brinjal H-Baingan B- Begon M- Vangi G- Vantak Tel- Nifuvanga T- Vankay Kan- Vazhuthana O- Baigun P- Baigan Root of brinjal plant is credited in the indigenous medicine as anti-asthamatics and general stimulant. Leaves possess sialagogue and narcutic properties and are used in cholera, bronchitis, dysuria and asthama. The seeds are used as a stimulent but are apt to lead to dyspepsia and constipation. Brinjal is reported to stimulate the intra-hepatic metabolism of cholesterial. The various parts of the plants are known to contain steroidal alkaloid. The presence of solasodine in the green fruit has been reported. Herbaceous prickly or sometimes unarmed perennial 0.62 to 2.4 m tall cultivated through out India as annual for its edible fruits. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 377 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 235 Soyamida febrifuga Indian red wood H- Rohun B- Rohun M- Ruhin G- Rohina O- Sohan The wood is used in house building as posts, rafters and beams. Bark contains a resinous bitter principle and is a popular drug. It is an astringent and antipatriotic property. The bark is used in the treatment of diarrhoea, dysentery and fever and as a bitter tonic in genesal debility. Indian red wood bark is a rich source of tannin. Decoction of bark is used for gargles, vaginary infection and enemata. The bark also yields a strong red fibre used for making ropes. Some times the bark is used in dyeing cotton clothes. A lofty deciduous tree 22–25 m. height. Distributed in the dry forest of Peninsular India right upto Kerela and also occurs in Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar and central India. 236 Stephania glabra - - Tubers are acrid, and also used in the treatment of pulmonary tuberculosis asthama and intestinal complaints.Tubers are rich source of several alkaloids. Alkaloids present in the tubers are tetrahydro oalmitine (Gindarin rotundine), palmitine (Gindarinine), etc. Aerial parts of plant grown in the caucasus region, are reported to yield more than 1% total alkaloids containing cycleanine and a base C19H24O4. Palmitin exhibits antibiotic activities against staphylococci in vitro. stepharin exhibits anti-cholinnesterace activity, where as cyclieanine and a base shows anti-inflammatory properties and hyndarine, sedative action. tetra-hydro palmitin produces sedative and anti- convulsant effects on rats, mice, cats and rabies.