 The oil extracted from Lemon grass also has huge demand for soap making, perfume industry to ayurvedic medicines, in the market. Many farmers including women farmers from Indian states like Jharkhand, Odisha, Bihar, Panjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh etc. are actively involved in Lemon grass farming for their livelihood security. In order to offer sustainable livelihoods to the rural women, an innovative initiative under National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY-NRLM), has been taken up in the form of Lemon grass farming. There are cases like as in Odisha wherein to promote livelihood security, the vulnerable tribal group women are encouraged for Lemon Grass farming. Right from lemon grass cultivation and oil extraction, bottling and packaging of lemon grass oil, is done by the tribal women who make up 80% of the workforce and play a critical role in planting, harvesting, and processing, thus empowering the tribal women. A large number of women living in rural areas of Jharkhand are also transforming their lives and setting an example of livelihood entrepreneurship at the local level by cultivating the Lemon grass. The success stories of these rural women farmers become an inspiration and are so impressive that Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, highly praised their efforts in his monthly radio programme Mann Ki Baat. Lemon grass: Brief description This versatile grass belongs to family Poaceae and genus Cymbopogon consisting of approximately 140 species covering wide area of Asia, America and Africa continents. Some species of this aromatic plant are also found in Australia and Europe. The members of this genus also called aromatic grasses due to production Indian Farming 74 (03): 32-34; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 32-34; March 2024 Lemon grass cultivation for enhancing farmer’s income Raghwendra Singh', Seema Yadav', S K Singh' and S K Dubey'* 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Rawatpur, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 The rising human health consciousness has led to the use of side effect free natural product based molecule such as Lemon grass. The multiple uses of this aromatic plant such as pharmaceutical, perfumery, soap industry etc. has increased its demand in domestic as well international market, which has also paved the pathway of enhanced income and livelihood generation among Indian farmers. Moreover, cultivation of Lemon grass played an important role in livelihood security of tribal women. Cultivation of aromatic plants needs less input as compared to paddy cultivation as they can be grown with rain water and farmyard manure. For Indian farmer, Lemon grass cultivation is like gold earned from barren land and it also made many farm women socially empowered. KVK-Amroha has played an important role in enhancing production of Lemon grass and increased adoption rate of its farming by technology dissemination using high-yielding variety Krishna among Lemon grass cultivators.