 urticae was Chander Singh*, Subhash Chander Verma, Tanuja Banshtu, Nikita Chauhan, Anshuman Semwal, Vibhuti Sharma, and Lalit Kalia Technology Indian Horticulture 42 found to be more pronounced during dry spells compared to that of P. ulmi. Alternate Hosts: Mites belonging to the families Eriophyiidae and Tetranychidae have emerged as significant pests affecting various crops in Northern India, including apple, citrus, mango, ber, okra, bean, brinjal, cotton and cucurbits. T. urticae, being a polyphagous pest, is known to infest multiple crops and weeds, apart from apple, pear, and cherry. Role of Pesticides and their effect on predators: In orchards, various predatory mite species such as Amblyscius fallacies, Zitzellia mali, Typhlodromus himalayansis, lacewing Chrysopa carnea, Anthocoridae bug Orius sp., predatory thrips Laptothrips mali, coccinellid Stethorus punctum and spiders have been reported to effectively suppress mite populations. However, the use of synthetic pyrethroids and other insecticides by growers has been found to cause mortality of these predatory mites and insects. Changes in Agricultural Practices: Monoculture practices tend to promote higher pest populations, including phytophagous mites, compared to polyculture systems. In polyculture systems with diverse plant species can disrupt mite population dynamics and reduce their overall abundance. For instance, studies have shown that the population of phytophagous mites, including T. urticae, Panonychus citri and Brevipalpus phoenicis, was significantly higher in monoculture systems compared to polyculture systems. Increased Global Trade: The expansion of global trade and the transportation of commodities can to the introduction of mite species into areas where they may lack natural predators, consequently enabling their population to proliferate rapidly. Human Factors: Human activities, including the adoption of novel agricultural practices and the introduction of new crop varieties, can exert notable influences on mite populations. The introduction of new agricultural practices, coupled with the cultivation of vulnerable crop varieties, can contribute to the expansion and persistence of mite infestations. Ecofriendly management of phytophagous mites Adopting various cultural practices can effectively minimize mite populations in diverse crops. Important practices include maintaining field sanitation, implementing balanced fertilizer use, avoiding monoculture, removing and incinerating plant debris and ratoon crops, adjusting sowing dates, and employing appropriate pruning techniques, including the removal and destruction of infested plant material. Intercropping with either host or non-host crops can also be employed to reduce pest populations in the targeted crops.