 A decision support system for precision nitrogen application was developed, which saves up to 26 kg nitrogen/ha thus reducing cost of cultivation and adverse environmental impact. Conservation agriculture (CA)-based ICM module was developed in pigeon pea with 1.92 t/ha yield and profitability of ` 82,776/ha. CA based cotton-wheat system was developed, which gave 44.1% higher system productivity than conventional tillage with a saving of 25–30% N and emerged as a superior alternative to rice-wheat system. Drone remote sensing method for field phenotyping was developed with multispectral sensor for monitoring nitrogen and drought stress in wheat. In a collaborative study with ISRO and NASA, eight horticultural crops in Sabour, Bhagalpur region of Bihar were mapped. Crop residue burning is a major problem in Punjab and Haryana. A method was developed for real-time monitoring of crop residue burning by using thermal image acquired from seven satellites at the IARI satellite ground station. The impact of conservation agriculture in groundnut + pigeon pea and groundnut + cotton cropping systems in light black soils was studied. Groundnut pod and haulm yield were found highest with normal tillage, pigeonpea grain yield and stover yield were highest under conservation tillage while seed cotton yield and stalk yield were higher under minimum tillage. Fungal isolates were evaluated in vitro for their capacity to solubilize insoluble zinc phosphate. Identified bacterial zinc solubilizers are from different species of Enterobacter, Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter and Microbacterium. Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) transited groundnut genotypes were identified which can be cultivated with 20–70% less water without any significant loss in yield. Drought-tolerant CAM variants (DGRM 3, DGRMB 5, DGRMB 13, DGRMB 17, DGRMB 19, DGRMB 29 and DGRMB 31) of a popular groundnut variety TG37A, were evaluated along side TG 37A with only two irrigations. While the pod yield reduction in TG 37A was around 49%, it varied between 32 and 40% in the CAM variants. High density (800 plants/ha at 5 m×2.5 m spacing) and ultra-high density (1,600 plants/ha at 2.5 m×2.5 m spacing) orchards of acid lime cv. Pramilini produced 12.87 to 17.81 t/ha as against 6.62 t/ha in conventional planting (400 plants/ha). Dogridge was identified as the best rootstock for Fantasy Seedless variety with a higher berry diameter (18.34 mm) and yield (10.5 kg/ vine) in Maharashtra. Thompson Seedless grapes grown under plastic cover showed a better yield (18.42 t/ha) as compared to anti-hail net (16.8 t/ha) and open condition (13.09 t/ha). Three new amino acid based micronutrient formulations were developed for nutrient management in different stage of fruit development in pomegranate. The foliar application of Formulation I and II increased (41.23%) fruit yield.