 yy In partnership with Ministry of Petroleum and Government of India, will support the development of a 2G ethanol production strategy. The 2G Renewable Biomass Availability Study in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Bihar will be completed and submitted to Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Limited (HPCL). yy Biogas production pilot plant will be established on ICRISAT and be in use for producing the clean and renewable energy using agricultural residues, food wastes generated on campus in an environment-friendly manner. yy In partnership with DBT, ICRISAT will participate in the University of Cambridge, UK, Government of India initiative on enhancing research in crop sciences, promote knowledge exchange and develop resilience in food security. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 40 5. Way forward ICRISAT is the only CGIAR Centre to be headquartered in India; 2017 is the 45th anniversary since its establishment at Patancheru. Over these four and half decades, ICRISAT has established strong collaborative relationships with Indian public and private sector partners to help meet its vision of securing a prosperous, food-secure and resilient dryland tropics in India. Looking forward, ICRISAT will continue undertaking research for development that leads to reduced poverty, hunger, malnutrition and environmental degradation in the semi-arid dryland tropics of Africa and Asia. Partnerships that embody demand-driven innovation will continue to be ICRISAT’s approach in fulfilling its mission. In 2018, ICRISAT intends to lead a new five-year CGIAR Research Program on Grain Legume and Dryland Cereal Agrifood Systems. The objective of the CRP is to increase the productivity, profitability, resilience and marketability of critical cereal and grain legume crops grown within the semi-arid and sub-humid dryland agro-ecologies of sub-Saharan Africa and South Asia. This program will support research for development on three cereal (sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet) and six legume (chickpea, cowpea, groundnut, lentil, soybean, pigeonpea) crops, all of which are important in Indian agriculture. The CRP will marry the traditional strengths of crop improvement science and farming systems research along with research that fosters wider market and policy opportunities within the targeted agrifood systems. This CRP can only deliver on its R4D agenda through strong, broad and active partnerships. In India, such partnerships exist in strength. ICRISAT looks forward to the CRP’s approval and its implementation in complimenting Indian institutions in supporting Indian agriculture and Indian farmers. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 41 Achieving food and nutrition security is a complex challenge. This is especially true in South Asia, where 40 percent of the world’s poor—who survive on less than US$1.25 a day—live and 21 percent of the population is undernourished. Yet countries in South Asia have seen marked improvements in socio-economic developments in recent years.