 Poly-house is made by GI pipe and covered by ultra-violet (UV) stabilized plastic sheet with a service life of 3–4 years. These sheets are generally available in 7 and 9 meter widths with 200 micron thickness. Poly-house technology is the most intensive form of commercial cultivation. This structure provides favourable growing condition to crop plants and protect them from extreme fluctuations in weather, especially temperature, rainfall and wind, and also minimize evaporation losses besides protection from birds, animals and insect pests, and diseases to quite an extent. The poly- house structures provide 4–5 time higher yields with export quality produce; high water and fertilizer use efficiency and round the year production facility in any part of the country. Major vegetable crops for poly- house are indeterminate tomato, cherry tomato, cucumber, capsicum, bitter gourd, musk melon and summer squash. Among flower crops; rose, gerbera, lilium, tulip, anthurium, carnations, orchids, chrysanthemum and their nursery can be grown in poly-house. Among fruit crops group; strawberry, papaya and all fruit-nursery propagation or hardening are used for economically profitable horticulture-based farming systems. Net built structures Generally two types of net-built structures are used, viz. shade-net and insect-proof net houses often termed synonymously, but indeed, a shade-net is primarily a covering of UV stabilized coloured plastic net where main objective is to provide protection to the horticultural nurseries and plants from harsh sunlight and hot winds during summer seasons. On the other-hand, insect proof net houses are built for the primary objective of screening out the entry of insects or other pests by the physical barrier of nets of various mesh sizes depending upon crop and season. Shade net houses: Shade nets generally use two colour nets (green and black) in horticulture- based farming systems. Both colour shade nets are available in 30, 50, 75 and 90% (percentage of reduction in sunlight) capacity of shading protection. Shade nets also cut down the sunlight, in turn minimizing evapotranspiration losses of moisture in general as well as reduced transpiration from plants. The total effect creates an altered relative humidity and temperature regime of microclimate favouring the plant growth. That is why these structures are especially useful for dry land and arid areas with water scarcity by increasing water use efficiency when used in combination with drip irrigation. Suitable crops identified for shade net houses from economic viability include horticulture nurseries, leafy vegetables, summer tomato and capsicum. Ornamental crops like lilium, tulip, anthurium and orchids can also be grown economically depending upon suitability of different agro-climatic zones. Insect-proof net houses: These structures make use of insect proof screens of different intensities of perforations, ranging from 25 mesh to 60 mesh.