 of projects ICAR Institute Commodities/Resources International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) 14 22 Rice, NRM International Potato Centre (CIP) 1 2 Potato, Sweet potato, International Research Centre for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) 13 36 Chickpea, Pigeonpea, GN, Pearlmillet, Finger millet, Sorghum, NRM, ICT World Agro-Forestry Centre (ICRAF) 20 11 AF Systems, Ecosystem services International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) 5 10 Legumes, cereals, forage & fodder crops, NRM, crop-livestock systems International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) 5 5 Policy Research World Fish Centre (WFC) 3 3 Fisheries and Aquaculture Biodiversity International (BI) 9 14 Collection of germplasm, Distribution under SMTA International Water Management Institute (IWMI) 9 6 Resource, Recovery & Reuse of water International Centre for Tropical Agriculture (CIAT) 6 4 Tropical commodities International Livestock Research Institute (ILRI) 9 12 Livestock and Poultry, Value chain, Health This global partnership helped India to harness the potentials of global germplasm. The screening of global germplasm for disease resistance in field crops have helped in development of landmark varieties in rice, wheat, maize, millets, etc. that have revolutionized the agriculture in India. The recent achievements like Swarna sub-1 for flash floods situations and HD 6927 wheat with resistance to blast and rust are the testimony of the strong and fruitful cooperation with IRRI and CIMMYT (based on information from NBPGR and the CG Centres in India). The region-specific varieties like JG 11 and JG 14 in chickpea and ICPL197 in pigeon pea developed in collaboration of ICRISAT have also helped in enhancing the production of pulses in India. Similar achievements have been noticed in other field crops and natural resources as well. The IFPRI has been providing very useful policy insights and feedbacks through collaborative research with NIAP and other ICAR and SAUs on all important policies in agriculture. The collaboration with CGIAR has taken even deeper dive in India during last decade with its strengthening and expansion to subnational level. The establishment of ICARDA’s Food Legumes Research Platform (FLRP) at Amlaha, Sehore, Madhya Pradesh with Satellite Hubs in West Bengal and Rajasthan for research and outreach in pulses and Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA) in 2014 at Ludhiana to strengthen the research on wheat and maize in India and Indian Agriculture after Independence 370 south Asian region along with BISA’s field offices in MP, Bihar and Telangana for location specific research and outreach is the welcome turn around. The IRRI-South Asia Regional Centre has been established at Varanasi for providing training and capacity development in seed sector in rice as well promoting new varieties in the eastern India.