 However, the treatments did not differ from the control in grain yield, because gallfly infestation was below the economic threshold level (10% silver shoots) even in untreated control. Carbofuran gave higher additional yield (3.45 q/ ha) and additional return (Rs 2,070) but lower net additional return (Rs 641) and benefit: cost ratio (1.45: 1) compared with parso leaves (Rs 686/- and 3.4 : 1, respectively). CONCLUSION Results of the experiments, conducted both at Ranchi and Nadia revealed that application of parso leaves is effective in reducing the damage caused by gallfly in rice. Application of parso leaves @ 100 kg/ha was more effective at Ranchi. Although parso leaf reduced the number of silver shoots in rice in Nadia, it was not reflected in the grain yield, because the incidence of gallfly was below the economic threshold limit. The effectiveness of parso leaf application was similar to the application of carbofuran at both the locations. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 368 Management of gundhi (harmful green algae) in paddy field by karada (Cleistanthus collinus) leaves : Gundhi (Chard) which occurs in kharif paddy fields in stagnant water, can be controlled by broadcasting 50-100 kg freshly plucked karada leaves in August. The algae consumes oxygen from water of the rice field and produces carbon dioxide, which results in yellowing and dwarfing of rice plants. The toxicants present in karada leaves damage chlorophyll of green algae. This practice has been in use since time immemorial in Panipila village of Nayagarh district in Orissa. : Shri M. Mohanty, Senior Research Fellow, Agroforestry Wing, Directorate of Research, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) 751003. : Village Panipaila, block Nayagarh, Nayagarh (Orissa) : Dr (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist, Department of Entomology; Dr R.K.Sarkar, Scientist (Senior Scale) and Dr (Mrs) Padmini Swain (Senior Scientist), Department of Physiology and Biochemistry, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006. METHODOLOGY The green algae appears in rice fields in lowland ecosystem. It forms a cushion slowly around the young plant, thereby compressing it and seizing the growth. Tillering and growth of rice plant is affected to such an extent that sometimes the yield loss exceeds 50% or more. Gundhi consumes oxygen from rice-field water, adversely affecting respiration of rice plants, which become dwarf with yellowing effect and show reduced tillering. Gundhi was found to be Chara (Division Charophyata, Class Charophyceae, Order Charaleas, Family Characeae). In some places Nitella spp.was found along with it. The algae occurs in kharif paddy field during August- September in stagnant water. Cham omits foul smell, for which it is known as gundhi.