16 Residues incorporated 3.95 2.25 Residues incorporated +Celluloytic fungi 4.00 2.36 Residues incorporated + Phosphocompost 4.95 2.97 Residues burnt + Phosphocompost 5.07 2.47 CD (0.05) 2.0 1.7 Long-term Fertilization and Soil Organic Carbon in Rice-based Cropping System Long-term effects of fertilizer and manure treatments, viz. control, N, NP,NPK and NPK+FYM on soil organic carbon (SOC) dynamics play an important role in the sustainability of intensive cropping systems in different soils under rice-wheat- jute cropping system as experimented on Inceptisol at Barrackpore, West Bengal. Results showed that active pools of carbon (soil microbial biomass C, water soluble- C and water-soluble carbohydrates) are quite sensitive to changes as a result of long- term fertilizer use and land management practices. Slow pool of carbon increased with decrease in the particle size aggregates. The passive pool of carbon, viz. fulvic acid-C and humic acid-C fractions remained unchanged. Integrated use of NPK and FYM maintained higher levels of active pools of carbon than N alone and unmanured ● Soil incorporation of rice residues along with application of phospho- compost improved wheat yields and soil organic matter content ● Maize and groundnut gave the highest yields when 50% of the inorganic fertilizers were substituted with farmyard manure ● Co-inoculation of Rhizobium and antagonistic bacteria along with Azospirillum/Azotobacter enhanced the nodulation and grain yields in blackgram and greengram ● The mycorrhizal inoculation on the improved varieties of aonla recorded higher colonization DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 72 treatment and also resulted in highest yield of crops. Carbon sequestration was positive under 100% of the recommended NPK and 100% NPK + FYM treated plots. Imbalance fertilizer use particularly N alone could not bring carbon to an equilibrium level even after 29 years of rice based cropping system in an alluvial soil. Soybean and Chickpea Breeder Lines for Higher Biological Nitrogen Fixation Breeder lines of soybean were screened in a vertisol at Jabalpur for identifying cultivars capable of high nodulation with indigenous rhizobia. The variation in nodulation was from 22-42 nodules/plant (1.9 fold variation), 0.55-2.10 g nodules/ plant (3.8 x), 1.02-3.29% plant N (3.22 x) and (3.87-6.66)% grain N (1.72 x). Similarly for chickpea a large range of variation (7 fold) in nodule number and plant biomass and a much larger variation in nodule mass within the same field were observed. Results are indicative of the potential for selecting high nodulation variants among extant genotypes of soybean and chickpea in Madhya Pradesh for hybridization efforts to improve BNF in cultivated varieties by exploiting the indigenous rhizobial populations in areas where it may not be possible to practice inoculation.