 Leaves ovate to round-ovate or sometimes sub-cordate, 5-9 cm. long; flowers pinkish white, fruits round, 5 cm. across, pubescent when young, but nearly glabrous at maturity, with a yellow skin overlaid with red; flesh yellow to yellowish orange, firm and sweet, mostly free from the flat, ridged stone; kernels sweet in some types and bitter in others. It is said to be native of China and the central Asiatic region, from where it has spread to India, Iran, Egypt and Greece by way of Armenia. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 522 Pest management through planting of Datura alba Volume 2, page 150 Dhatura Angel's trumpet, jamestown-weed, jimson-weed, stinkweed, devil's trumpet, apple of Peru. Datura alba Nees The principle alkaloid is scopolamine. The green leaves are used for dyeing of clothes. Dried leaves and flower tops are known for narcotic and anti-spasmodic properties. Dried leaves are used in medicine for the same purpose as the leaves of belladona and stramonium. A sub-glabrous spreading herb, sometimes becoming shrubby. It occurs throughout India, and is occasionally grown in gardens. Leaves triangular-ovate in outline, Twig Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT unequal at the base; flowers 7 inc. long, often double or triple, white, violaceous, reddish-purple or purple on the outside and white within; fruit globose, tuberculate or muricate, borne on a short thick peduncle, capsule dehisces irregularly, exposing a mass of closely packed, light brown, flat seeds, which nearly fill the interior. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 689 Control measure against insect pests Volume 2, page 151 Tobacco, garlic, onion, dhatura, red chilli and hing Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Tobacco: Refer to ITK No. 139 Garlic: Refer to ITK No. 1116 Onion: Bengali: palandu, piyaj; Gujarati: dungali; Hindi: piyaz; Kannada: irulli; Malayalam: ulli; Marathi: kanda; Sanskrit: nripakanda, palandu, raktakanda; Tamil: ira- vengayam, irulli, vella-vengayam; Telugu: nirulli, vulli gaddalu. Dhatura: Refer to ITK No. 522 Red chilli: Refer to ITK No. 139 Hing: Refer to ITK No. 702 Onion: Onion Onion: Allium cepa Linn. Onion: The bulbs contain several phenolic acids. Onion contains oleanolic acid. Onion finds varied medicinal uses. Externally it acts as a rubifacient. Roasted bulbs are used as poultice for boils and abscesses. The juice of onion is used for treating ophthalmia and earache. Onions possess tonic, which is stomachic, and diuretic, and has appetite improving properties. They are useful in jaundice and biliousness, as they stimulate bile production. Onions are stimulant and expectorant and are therefore, useful in respiratory affections. Onion is reported to possess aphrodisiac, anti-malarial and anti-rheumatic properties.