 PPS to Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR 2. PPS to Addl. Secretary, DARE & Secy., ICAR 3. PPS to Addl. Secretary & FA, DARE/ICAR 4. All DDGs, ICAR 5. Dy. Secy., Work Study, ICAR 42 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH II, -110 012 Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-II, New Delhi-110 012 Annexure - III F.No.2-2/2015-HRM Dated: 20.05.2016 CIRCULAR Sub.: General Points of Consideration for Smooth Implementation of Training Functions The Council has established HRM Unit at ICAR HQs with the objectives of overall coordination, monitoring, and implementation of HR policies, management of training needs as well as to evaluate and advice on all strategic HR needs and requirements of the Council. The HRM unit has been guiding and supporting the Institutes from time to time for effective and timely implementation of training functions. In order to bridge the gaps in organizing, coordination, implementation and monitoring of the training related activities based on systematic approach to training, following points are to be considered by the ICAR Institutes/HQs: 1. Training Need Assessment shall be done for all categories of employees by involving concerned employee, Reporting and Reviewing Officers, and HRD Nodal Officer of the Institute/HQs. 2. Only regular employees of ICAR of all categories should be part of Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on identified training needs. 3. Only 1-2 skill deficient areas relevant to the discipline/job/personality or leadership development are to be identified for an employee and reported in the prescribed format. 4. One employee shall not be given more than one training in a year normally, there may be exceptions due to emergent needs identified by the Director of the Institute. It should be ensured that the training acquired has been appropriately utilized before nominating for another training.† 5. Normally 25% employees be considered for training in a year and another 25% employees be considered in next year. 6. Skilled Support Staff should also be included in the ATP along with the expected budget to be incurred during that particular year. 7. The trainings of SSS are to be organized either in the Institute itself or any other ICAR Institute located in the same City. 8. Proper format for submission of ATP and Physical and Financial achievements or prescribed format communicated from time to time shall be used. 43 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) 9. No employee should be nominated to attend the training in the†same area†in which he/she has already undergone training during the last three years. However, he/she may be nominated for advance training course. 10. It is expected that trainings proposed in the ATP are as per HRD fund allocation and should not exceed the fund availability limits. 11. The ATP should be followed strictly. In case of emergent needs, the ATP may be suitably modified under intimation to HRM Unit, ICAR.