 Recently Prime Minister of India dedicated to the nation ICAR developed 3 bio-fortified varieties of millets (Finger millets, CFMN-1,2, Small millet CCLMN) with high iron and zinc contents on the occasion of 75th Anniversary of UN FAO. Apart from evolving high yielding varieties, focus has been on the development of value-chain ecosystem. To promote millet production, the undersigned, then Agriculture Commissioner developed and implemented new Sub-Mission on Nutri-cereals (Millets) under National Food Security Mission Programme in the year 2018 to increase area, production and productivity of millets in 212 districts of 14 states. Consequently, the production of millets has increased from 13.7 million (2018–19) to 17.9 million tonnes (2020–21). The other important decisions taken were changing the name from millets to nutri-cereals through a Gazette Notification of Government of India in April 2018, implementation of National Year of Millets 2018, launching of breeder seed production at 18 centers and creation of 25 seed hubs at ICAR-AICRP and KVK’s. To create domestic and global demand and to provide nutritional food to people, Government of India proposed to UN for declaring 2023 as International Year of Millets. The undersigned got the opportunity to present the proposal in UN FAO, Rome Committee on Agriculture (5 October 2018), and also in UN FAO Council (3 December 2018) which was endorsed and declared by UN on 5 March 2021. Now, India will take lead at global level as a guiding country for observance of International Year of Millets 2023. It is a matter of pride for all of us that Indian Council of Agricultural Research has got the lead role to play for promotion of millets as nutri- solution to climate and food. I call upon all stakeholders to actively participate and contribute for furtherance of nutri-cereals called millets globally through pre-run activities conducted by Government of India in the current year as well as next year. E DITORIAL Millets are no more orphan crops (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 10 January 2023 International Year of Millets – 2023, proposal from India – Application to UN adoption S K Malhotra* T HE United Nations, Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) steers international efforts to achieve food security for all and ensures that people have regular access to enough high-quality food. The Committee on Agriculture (COAG) is one of FAO’s governing bodies providing overall policy and regulatory guidance on agricultural issues. It also provides advice and recommendations to the FAO conference on global agricultural policy and regulatory matters, and to the FAO council on matters relating to the organization’s priorities, programmes and budgets. The COAG was established in 1971 and has over 130 member Nations, generally meets every two years to review specific matters related to agriculture, food and nutrition referred to the committee.