 Banana and Pineapple leaf fibre products: Banana fibre extraction from pseudo stem and pineapple fibre from leaf is a new and an innovative technology, which has provided a platform for entrepreneurs. With the increasing environmental awareness and growing importance of eco-friendly fabrics, products made of banana and pineapple leaf fibre has been recognized for all its good qualities and now its application is increasing in other fields too such as apparel garments and Home furnishings. A woman SHG at Jharnapani, Nagaland, has adopted this technology of fibre extraction and are earning annually Rs. 20,000/-from the preparation of fibre products [Validated by KVK, Dimapur, Nagaland]. D. Tropical Zone: The Tropical zone also consists of six districts, bordering Assam, namely Papum Pare, East Siang, Lohit, Namsai, Tirap and Longding. Crops, livestock, horticulture and fish are primarily produced in the region. i. Mushroom: Oyster mushroom cultivated on paddy straw, has giving the yield of 8.5- 8.9 kg/10 spawn bags in three plucking and assisted the farm women in generating her alternative income with B:C ratio of 8.9 [Validated by KVK, Lohit, Arunachal Pradesh]. ii. IFS (Rice-Maize-Groundnut-Pea-vegetable-livestock-fish): A farmer adopted IFS with seven components comprising crop component (paddy var. RCM-9, maize var. Pusa composite-3, groundnut var. ICGS-76, pea var. Azad pea-1, Cabbage var. rare ball, cauliflower var. Early Hemlata, fruits (tree beans, Kachai lemon and orange), livestock (6 crossbred piglet and 125 Grampriya poultry) and fish farming (carps). A Jalkund and vermicomposting unit were developed. The farmer earned a total net return of Rs. 3,63,500/- per annum from 4.0 ha [Validated by KVK , Churachandpur, Manipur]. iii. IFS (Rice-Fish-Duck): This technology has advantage over the traditional indigenous type of paddy cum fish culture; here fish are introduced in the pond 0.01 -0.03 ha before sowing of rice rather than fish fingerlings. Canals (2-3 feet wide and 1.5-2 feet depth) are dug in two sides of rice field and connected to the pond. When the water level goes up the State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 42 fishes migrate to the rice field automatically and the culture area of fish increases up to 80 - 100 times. The net income of Rs. 1, 93,000/- from 1.0 hectare of land [Validated by KVK, Lohit, Arunachal Pradesh]. iv. Piggery: Crossbreed pig (Hampshire x Assam local) rearing for pork: Crossbred pig are more prolific and grow faster than the indigenous pigs. A farm woman of Namsai, Arunachal Pradesh, reared crossbred piglets, which matured at 9 months of age and given 13 numbers of piglets at first farrowing. Based on local price of piglet, the farmer got return of Rs. 3000/- per piglet [Validated by KVK, Lohit Arunachal Pradesh]. v.