 A classical work was done on molecular mapping, map-based cloning, and characterization of a dominant rice blast resistance gene Pi54 (Pi- kh) at ICAR-National Research Centre on Plant Biotechnology, New Delhi (Sharma et al. 2005). It has started a major program on molecular breeding of rice in the country which resulted in the release of many blast-resistant rice varieties (Khanna et al.2015). Single-copy gene-based SNP chip has been developed which has been extensively utilized for genetic studies and molecular breeding in rice (Singh et al. 2015). Intensive research in the last two decades through marker-assisted breeding resulted in the development of landmark varieties such as Improved Samba Mahsuri and Improved Pusa Basmati 1 with bacterial leaf blight resistance. Efforts were made to introgress the major QTL for submergence tolerance, ‘Sub1’, into popular varieties such as Swarna, Ranjit, Bahadur, CR 1009, Samba, IR64, etc., which were tested in the target environment and released in different states. Similarly, emphasis was made on improving the nutritional quality of rice varieties during the last one decade which resulted in the development and release of high protein varieties, CR Dhan 310 and CR Dhan 311; high zinc varieties, DRR Dhan 45, DRR Dhan 48, DRR Dhan 49, Chhattisgarh Zinc Rice 1; Low Glycemic Index varieties, Improved Samba Mahsuri and Telangana Sona. Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 81 With the increase in the demand for export quality rice, special attention was given towards enhancement of grain quality of rice, which lead to the release of about 30 export quality basmati and aromatic short grain rice varieties. These include Pusa Basmati 1, Yamini, Pusa Basmati 1121, Pusa Basmati 1509 and Pusa Basmati 1718. Among them, few varieties were developed using extensive use of molecular marker technology (Singh et al. 2011) Identification of herbicide-tolerant gene through chemically induced mutation and its introgression in two popular basmati rice varieties viz., Pusa Basmati 1121 and Pusa basmati 1509 is a landmark scientific discovery that will help in the expansion of area under direct-seeded rice cultivation. Significant progress in hybrid rice research and development during the last three decades resulted in development of 133 hybrids. The private sector played a dominant role in hybrid rice development. During the year 2021, hybrid rice was planted in an area of 3.5 Mha and more than 80% of the total hybrid rice area is in the states of Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha and Haryana. With the development of new hybrids in MS grain category with superior grain quality like head rice recovery (>60-65%), alkali spreading value of 4-5 and intermediate amylose content (22-25%), the area under hybrid rice in South India is likely to increase upto 8-10 Mha in the next 5-6 years. Fig. 1. Area, production and productivity of rice in India Table 1.