 There was no perceptible difference in soil accumulation due to use of cover crop and mulching. CONCLUSION Agronomical practices like growing of cover crops and mulching, and plugging of gully with stone and cement, and terracing and bunding were found to be effective to control soil erosion.   TILLAGE PRACTICES Code : 1350 Title of the ITK : Moisture and weed management in ginger (Zingiber officinale) Description of the ITK : The whole field is covered with wheat husk or rice straw to reduce the evaporation losses of moisture from field and also to minimize the favourable environment for growth of weeds. In addition, straw mulch also helps to create favourable environment for germination of ginger tubers. After sowing of ginger in the field, the whole field is covered by 2 inch thin layer of wheat husk or rice straw, and cover is replaced after two to two and half months after sowing. Extent of soil erosion is very severe in the region. Out of 840 farm families, 560 families adopt this age-old practice. Intercultural practices: This practice is used by the vegetable growers of Karge Panchayat of Mandar Block of Ranchi district (Jharkhand). About 60% irrigation water is saved and about 80% weed problem is solved. This practice helped to get uniform germination (100%) in farmers fields where this practice is adopted. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Karge, Mander, Ranchi (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr A. Wadood, Head, Department of Agriculture Physics, Shri Sanjeev Kumar, Research Associate and Dr R. P Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location Village Karge, block Mander, district Ranchi (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The field study was conducted involving 41 respondents. Matrix was prepared following focused group interview on five parameters, i.e. conservation of soil moisture, germination, control of weed, yield and plant health. Experiment An experiment was conducted in Karge and Fig. 1. Indigenous rain gauge (rolu)  TILLAGE PRACTICES Fig. 2. Polythene mulching in ginger field Bara Hatma villages of Mandar Block in Ranchi district (Jharkhand) in 8 replications with 4 treatments, viz., T1: control (no mulch); T2: ITK (rice straw); T3, ITK (wheat husk mulch); and T4, improved practice (polythene mulch), each plot having 35 × 25 m area. The observations were recorded on parameters like soil moisture status, seedling emergence and vegetative growth. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 revealed that the indigenous practice of mulching in ginger by rice straw or wheat husk was rated highly effective in terms of all the five selected parameters, viz. Table 1.