 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 539 Use of binda (Colebrookea oppositifolia) leaves for ripening of fruits Volume 2, page 288 Binda Hindi: binda, pansra. Colebrookea oppositifolia Sm. The leaves are applied for wounds and bruises. A preparation of the root is used by the Santals in epilepsy. The wood is used for making gun-powder charcoal. A densely woolly shrub met with in the hilly parts of India up to an altitude of 4,000 ft. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Habit Geographical indications 125 (a) Organic farming cultivation and coconut-based land use system Volume 2, pages 294-295 Tamarind and vayvilangam Tamarind: Assamese: tetuli; Bengali: tentul, anbli; Gujarati: amli, ambli; Hindi: imli, amli, anbli; Kannada: hull, amli; Malayalam: puli, amlam; Marathi: chinch, chichi; Oriya: tentuli, Konya; Tamil: puli, amilam; Telugu: chintachettu, sintachettu (tree), chintapandu (fruit). Tamarind: Tamarind tree Tamarind: Tamarindus indica Linn. Tamarind: Invert sugar (30-40%) is the most important constituent. Tartaric acid is the principal acid in the pulp. Pulp is much used in the Indian medicine as a refrigerant, carminative and laxative and is also commonly prescribed in febrile diseases and bilious disorders. The pulp is also reported to posses antiseptic and is recommended as a poultice on inflammatory swelling. The kernels of seed contain protein (17.1-20.1 g/100 g), fat, carbohydrate (65.1- 72.2 mg/100 g), crude fibre and ash. The roasted kernels contain Ca (121 mg /100 g), P (237 mg/100 g). Replacement of 25% or less of rice by this kernel powder produced a significant improvement in the overall nutritive value of rice diet. Ground seed is useful for cattle feed. The seeds, particularly the testae, are said to be astringent and are used to cure diarrhoea and dysentery. An infusion of the leaves is said to be cooling and useful in bilious fever. The bark is astringent and is given in diarhhoea. The leaves have been found to contain the glycosides, bitaxin,orientin and iso-orientin. The leaves are eaten by goat and cattle. They may also be tried for green-manuring in soil. The flowers are considered a good source of honey. Tamarind: A moderate-sized to large, evergreen tree, up to 24 m in height and 7 m in girth, but generally smaller, cultivated or found naturalized almost throughout the plains and sub-Himalayan tracts of India, particularly in the south.