 The indicators included in this study are based on secondary data that have been considered in policy deliberations, which are easily available at national and sub-national levels and therefore, can be replicated for similar locations. Lastly, the previous attempts to assess the sustainability of agriculture in India consider a limited set of indicators, while this study includes diverse and robust indicators covering main three dimensions of sustainability (Saleth, 1993; Kareemulla et al., 2017). Though agro-climatic regions are homogeneous, agriculture is a subject matter of state. Agriculture policies are in majority governed by states and vary from state to state based on different situations of each state. For instance, in the high farm productivity states like Punjab, Haryana, and Madhya Pradesh, state government provides power subsidies and free water from canal irrigation and purchases more farm products at remunerative prices from farmers compared with states like Bihar, Chhattisgarh, and Jharkhand (Gulati and Narayanan, 2003; Finance Commission of India, 2019). Further, organic farming is also a major component of agricultural sustain- ability, but it is only limited to a few northeastern states like Meghalaya, Mizoram, Tripura, and Assam (Singh et al., 2021). Furthermore, soil quality, the availability of water resources, topography, socio-economic characteristics of farmers, as well as availability and accessibility to extension services are also major determining factors for agricultural sustainability (Singh and Nayak, 2020). We developed agricultural sustainability index for different agro-climatic regions to capture grass-root level heterogeneity. 5. Conclusions, policy implications, and limitations 5.1. Conclusions and implications Agricultural sustainability is a concept, which is difﬁcult to deﬁne and measure. The term of “sustainability” reﬂects our under- standing of systems that in continual transition, so sustainability should be approached as a concept to strive for, like social wellbeing, rather than an objective that can be measured with common analytical techniques. In this sense, it is more useful to be able to track the performance of core indicators towards sustainability than set speciﬁc targets to be achieved, although setting targets is often useful to identify levels of satisfaction. It is no different with tracking the performance of natural economy, in most cases, it is simple to know how to do and what direction does the economy trend to go. Although progress has been made in developing approaches for monitoring agricultural sustainability, considerable additional work remains to be done to better identify sustainable strategic, use core indicators, and integrate recommended procedures. In this direction, the present study provides a new suite of quantitative indicators to assess agricultural sustainability at regional and district levels, taking into account the limitations in available data.