 They are considered tonic, lactagogue and emetic. The wood is soft and light and barks contain tannin. The leaves are used for poulticing boils. A moderate sized shrub or tree with large opposite leaves. The tree is common through out the outer Himalayas from chenab east ward to Bengal, central and south India, and Andaman Island. It occurs in shaddy places and along revines, and flowers and fruits practically available through out the years. 143 Ficus infectoria - H- Kahimal B-Pakar M-Passari Tel-Badijuvvi T-Jovi Kan-Basari Mal-Bakri The tree is one of the recorded host of the Indian lac insect. Young shoots are used in curries. Decoction of the bark is used as gargle and wash for ulcers. The wood and bark is reported to be suitable for paper pulp. A large spreading tree epiphytic in early stages, sometimes sending down a few aerial roots. It is found nearly through out India, and is commonly planted as an avenue and ornamental tree. In South India, it is considered a good shade tree for coffee, fallen leaves act as heavy mulch. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 348 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 144 Ficus religiosa Peepal H- Pipal B-Ashathwa G-Jari Mar- Ashvatha Tel- Ashvatthamu T-Arasu Kan-Arali Mal-Arachu The fruits and tender leaf buds are occasionally eaten in times of scarcity. The leaves and twigs are lopped for cattle and elephant fodder. The tree is one of the recorded hosts of the Indian lac insect in Madhya Pradesh, Bengal and Assam. The bark contains 4% tannin and is astringent. An infusion of it is used for ulcers and skin diseases. Leaves and tender shoots are used as purgative and in skin diseases. The fruit is laxative and the seeds are considered to be cooling, alterative and laxative. A large deciduous tree, epiphyticbanyan. The tree is found wild or cultivated nearly through out India and is held sacred by Hindus and Buddhists. It is planted as an avenue and roadside. 145 Foeniculum vulgare Fennel H- Saunf B-Mauri G-Variari M-Badishep Tel-Sopu T-Shombu Kan- Badisopu The plant is pleasantry aromatic and is used as pot herb. The leaves are reported to have diuretic properties. The roots are regarded as purgative. Dried fruits of funnel have a fragrant odour and a pleasant aromatic taste. The fruits are aromatic, stimulant and carminative. Fennel fruits contain a volatile oil. The main constituent of oil is anethol. It’s oil is largely used as flavouring agent in culinary preparation, confectionary, cordeal and liquors. A stout, glabrous, aromatic herb 5–6 feet high, leaves pinnately decompound, flowers small, yellow, incompound, perminal umbel. The plant is native of southern Europe and Asia. 146 Fumaria officinalis - - The dried aerial parts are used as substitute for fumitory.