 Despite the existence of approximately 50,000 edible plant species known to humanity, only a minor fraction, roughly 150 to 200 species, finds utilization as food. Strikingly, a mere 15 crop plants contribute to 90% of the world’s food energy intake. From this, over 60% is derived from just three major crops: rice (Oryza sativa L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), and maize (Zea mays L.). This pattern of reliance creates a concerning trend in our food system, posing challenges for both people and the planet. There are about 800 different species of underutilized edible crops in India, out of which about 300 species are used mostly by the tribal and rural population of the Northeastern region alone. Underutilized crops refer to wild or semi-domesticated plant species that are often overlooked and not fully utilized, despite their considerable potential. These plants have significant untapped benefits but have been largely neglected in agricultural and food systems. These crops are neither extensively cultivated on a commercial scale nor widely traded, primarily these are cultivated, trade a and consumed on a local level. These crops belong to categories such as cereals and pseudocereals, legumes, vegetables, oilseeds, roots and tubers, aromatic and medicinal plants, fruits and nuts, and have earned collective names such as ‘neglected and underutilized’ or ‘forgotten’, ‘orphan’, ‘minor’ crops. Underutilized species include not just food plants but also many other species— wild or cultivated—used as sources of oil, fuel, fibre, fodder, beverages, stimulants, narcotics, ornamental, aromatic compounds, and medicine. These plants are significant not just for conservation but also for gaining insights into their genetic background and important genes or alleles that favour their survival in harsh environments. They are instrumental in providing food, improving livelihoods, and nutritional coverage for people living in hilly areas. Underutilized crops have the potential to be crucial in resolving the world’s ongoing food challenges. They offer sustainability, adaptability, and nutritional value that can contribute to food security, agrobiodiversity conservation, and a more resilient agricultural system and agro-food value chains. Many of these species are incredibly resilient, and their capacity to adapt to challenging growing and climatic conditions holds tremendous promise in the era of climate change. In this context, they are the crops of the future. Therapeutic diversity of underutilized horticultural crops in NE Region of India Several wild indigenous fruit crops which are rare in other parts of the world grow favourably and naturally in the foothills track of Eastern Himalayas due to suitable geo-climatic conditions. The horticultural crops in this region encompass a diverse range, including tropical and subtropical fruits, temperate fruits, vegetables, and flowers, comprising both indigenous and introduced varieties.