 Establishing crop grids: Modalities are direly needed to identify crop production epi-centres using agro-ecological zones vis-à-vis horticulture crops as a part of digitized horticulture, backed-up with soil-climate November–December 2023 5 analogues embedded with all biologically defined quality attributes. This will enable to identify crop performance grids as a benchmark of success or failure of a given crop and develop a robust system of computing crop statistics through the application of geospatial tools. In the current scenario, there is no such effort for horticulture crops. Soil health cards for horticulture crops: Our past depleted efforts in this direction strongly warrant developing crop-based soil health cards to realize its impact on the timely assessment of nutrient constraints in the field and check the current unprecedented menace of nutrient mining and curtailed crop soil capacity. Retrofitting function-specific microbes in crop fertilization schedules could further lessen the undue reliance on the use of inorganic/synthetic fertilizers. Use of crop-customized nutrient composites (green nano- composites in organically grown crops) alongside irrigation (4R × 4W) would be a step forward guarantee towards more crop per drop, and more crop per gram nutrient use. Unfortunately, both of these riders are realistically missing from the current challenges of balanced fertilization of horticulture crops to achieve land degradation neutrality. Protocols for organic horticulture and natural farming for climate neutrality: Renewed emphasis is needed for integrating agro-ecology with on-farm module of organic and natural farming coupled with in-situ water conservation (it is ironical, almost entire horticulture prospers under rainfed condition with an average annual rainfall of more than 2500 mm), and in-situ crop residue management, with an eye on developing good agricultural practices and sustainability in crop production (soil-crop- environment health indicators) on a long term basis. A sincere effort should also put forth to work upon the carbon and water-footprints of crops to test the pressure on the health of natural resources. We comprehensively forget, perhaps a much greater onus of producing bio-inputs (biofertilizers, botanicals as biostimulants and microbial antagonists, preferably in bioformulation mode) with mass scale multiplication protocols or their label claims developed as a result of thoroughly laid out field experiments, so that bio-intensive management of horticulture crops becomes an immediate reality. The work of Assam Agricultural University (Jorhat, Assam), is worth mentioning in steering this program to good effect in Northeast India. For organic and natural farming, horticulture-based integrated farming system can surmount by connecting farm productivity with pond productivity via soil-plant- water health continuum.