 Night time temperatures (minimum) between 13–18°C are responsible for triggering tea mosquito bug population in cashew plantation during flushing and flowering stages. Hence based on minimum temperature distributions in the cashew-growing regions during reproductive phase, the regions prone to infestation of tea mosquito bug have been identified and demarcated. The populations may be moderate to severe across west coast and low to moderate along the east coast and in the hill ranges in southern peninsula. The areas, which are relatively free from the pest, are the tracts along West Bengal and northeastern states due to low temperatures in winter season. Advance Estimation of Food Grain Production Using Monsoon Rainfall and Southern Oscillation Index A simple model has been developed by the Co-ordinating Unit of the AICRP on Agrometeorology (AICRPAM) for advance estimation of national food grain production. The model uses rainfall indices based on selected sub-divisional rainfall (with 1% significance correlation with production index) during June to September months, southern oscillation index (SOI) based on winter to spring pressure tendency (March to May – December to February values) and trend value. The model was developed using 40 years national food grain production data (1952–92) and has been validated using the past 8 years actual production. It can be said that the model could successfully predict the national food grain production within ± 2% (sometimes at zero per cent) except in 1 out of 8 years of testing. The model has predicted the 2001–02 year productivity at 210.9 million tonnes, which is very close to the official estimate of 211.0 million tonnes, provided in June. The significant feature of this model is that it can predict the total (kharif and rabi) food grain production about 8 months in advance (by October itself). Weather-based Forewarning Systems for Crop Pests and Diseases From the historical data collected on the incidence of important crop pests and diseases in respect of 6 major crops, viz. cotton, rice, pigeonpea, groundnut, sugarcane and mustard grown in different agroclimatic regions of the country the corresponding weather data, prediction equations have been developed. l Analysis of monthly rainfall data over eastern dry zone of Karnataka for the period 1972–99 indicated shift in rainfall pattern. Based on these rainfall shifts, new cropping strategy has been suggested. l At Dapoli, Karzat 4, Indrayani, Panvel 2, Palgarh I and Palgarh II rice varieties were shade tolerant and are thus suitable for regions experiencing excessive clouding during the kharif. l Predictions equations for powdery- mildew disease in ber and grape were developed. l The regions prone to infestations of tea mosquito bug have been identified and demarcated. l A model has been developed for advance estimation of national food grain production.