 The C&AG office itself has emphasized the necessity of having a strong internal audit system within ministry/department of the Government of India and it is reiterated by the second administrative reforms commission in its 14th report on “strengthening financial management system of Government of India”. The working group constituted under the Chairmanship of then Additional Secretary (Expenditure), Ministry of Finance with the approval of Finance Minister has also highlighted the need of regular internal audit system in Government of India. The working group in its report submitted on 22ndNovember, 2011 has also advocated the 27 need of regular system of Internal Audit and Audit Committee in department which would lead to detection and prevention of financial irregularities and also enable the setting up proper financial control system which would ensure that no adverse comments of C&AG are raised at later date. Therefore, Internal Audit is a strong instrument in the hand of Financial Adviser and Secretary of the Ministry being Chief Accounting Authority in terms of Rule-70 of GFR-2017 to ensure that cannons of financial proprietary and higher standard of financial regulation are being maintained and followed and instructions are attended as soon as procedural lapses and irregularities are noticed so that statutory audit has little work left to do. 13.3 In pursuance of O/o Controller General of Accounts, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance, OM No.G.25014/33/2015-16/MF.CGA/IAD/306-53 dated 15.05.2017, an Internal Audit Committee has been constituted in Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare (DCA&FW) and Department of Agriculture Research & Education (DARE) under the Chairmanship of Secretary, (DCA&FW) and Secretary (DAC) being Chief Accounting Authority with following composition vide O/o CCA OM Nos. Agri/IWA/Audit Committee/DAC/2020-21/158-195 dated 08.09.2020. 13.3.1 Internal Audit Committee in Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers Welfare (DAC&FW):- 1. Secretary (DCA&FW) : Chairman 2. AS&FA (DCA&FW) : Vice-Chairman 3. Joint Secretary (PP) (DAC&FW) : Member 4. CCA (Agriculture) : Convener 5. CA (Agriculture) : Member 6. Sr. AO, IAW (HQrs) : Member Secretary 13.3.2 The terms of Reference (TOR) of Internal Audit Committee are as follows: i. The Internal Audit Committee would function as an apex and oversight body for establishing the role, responsibility and structure of internal audit organisation in the Ministry. ii. The Internal Audit Committee would periodically review the performance and administration of internal audit function and would specify the direction and risk area in which internal audit function should move. iii. The Internal Audit Committee would also take the stocks of the audit undertaken by the various internal audit parties and follow up the cases where some serious issues have been identified. 13.