 Ushering in green, white, blue, and yellow revolutions could mainly be due to sound research and extension system in the country. The ICAR has over the years evolved an effective and well-tested frontline extension system, which is exemplary and admired all over the world. It started with establishment of first Krishi Vigyan CHAPTER - 1 Introduction Fig. 1: Cumulative growth of KVKs since inception 2 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Kendra (KVK) in Pondicherry in 1974 based on Dr. Mohan Singh Mehta Committee Report and subsequent increase of KVKs in different parts of the country. The KVKs under ICAR have evolved over the time for meeting the expectations and emerging challenges being faced by the Indian farming community. The cumulative growth of KVKs since IV Five Year Plan and growth in number of KVKs during each Plan period is shown in Fig.1 and 2, respectively. As of now, ICAR has established a total of 630 KVKs in the country under different host organizations viz., SAUs, CAU, ICAR Institutes, Deemed Universities (DUs), State Governments, Public Sector Undertaking (PSU), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs) and Other Educational Institutions (OEI) aiming at assessment, refinement and large scale adoption of technology/products. Accordingly, the KVKs have been recognized as effective institutional links between agricultural research and extension system in the country. The KVK activities include on-farm testing to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems, frontline demonstrations to establish the production potential of improved agricultural technologies on the farmers’ fields, training of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills. Besides, KVK works as a knowledge and resource centre of agricultural technologies for supporting farmers in improving their agricultural production and livelihood. At present, KVK appears to be the only institutional system at the district level for technological backstopping in agriculture and allied sectors. In order to make the KVK more relevant and effective under the changing scenarios over the years, various committees had been constituted to review the progress of KVKs and suggest much needed improvements in their functioning. The details of such Committees constituted in the past are provided as under: 1980 : High level Evaluation Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. P. Bhattacharya 1986 : Joint Food & Agricultural organisation (FAO) – ICAR Mission under the Chairmanship of Dr. M.L. Dewan 1988 : ICAR Review Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr. G.V.K. Rao 1993 : Nine Quinquennial Review Teams (QRTs) for different Agro-Climatic Regions Fig. 2: Growth of KVKs in different Plan periods 3 Introduction 1995 : Committee regarding financial and administrative management, financial support and pattern of funding etc., under the Chairmanship of Dr. M.V. Rao 1995 : Committee under the Chairmanship of Shri S.S.