2001) Additional Secretary and FA Department of Agricultural Research and Education OVERVIEW iii Foreword Foreword Foreword Foreword Foreword The National Agricultural Research System (NARS) with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) as an apex body is striving for the holistic development of agriculture at the national level through planning, promoting, conducting and coordinating research, education and extension and training on all aspects of agriculture for ensuring optimal utilization of land, water and plant and animal genetic resources. India has achieved worldwide acclaim in the field of agricultural research, education and extension by achieving more than four-fold increase in foodgrains production besides significant increases in the milk, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables and fish production since independence. Growth in Indian agriculture which benefited from increased area under plough in the earlier years, has now to rely mostly on productivity gains, both through increasing cropping intensity and yield. Accordingly, the thrust of Council’s research efforts during the year focused on genomics and biotechnology, Information Technology (IT), Management of Information System (MIS) and Geographic Information System (GIS), natural resource management, post harvest technology and value addition, and agri-business management. In the identified priority areas, the ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities have exhibited remarkable achievements during the year under report. More than 84 high-yielding and disease-resistant varieties/hybrids of various field crops, and 78 varieties/hybrids of horticultural crops including fruits, vegetables and floriculture, were released for various agro-ecoregions and production systems of the country. This was supported by the generation of the appropriate agro- techniques. Promising major crop-based cropping systems, having economic viability in different agro-ecoregions, have been evolved, keeping in view the resource availability and its efficient utilization. Soil map of the country on 1:1 million scale, state map on 1:250,000 scale and several district soil maps on 1:50,000 scale have been prepared. Soil degradation map of the country on 1:4.4 million scale has also been prepared. Twenty agro-ecological regions and sixty agro-ecological sub-regions of the country were delineated based on the physiography, soils, climate, length of growing period etc. Water-use efficient irrigation schedules and methods (including micro irrigation) for major crops were evolved that resulted into considerable saving of irrigation water and increase in crop yields. More emphasis was given on the development of farm machinery and post-harvest technology, and on-farm and off- farm value-addition, processing and storage.