 The main objective of the service was to generate a scientific culture and opportunity for continuous professional growth and lifelong specialization without any constraint and to promote individual and collective initiative for improving the productivity of research and application of knowledge in matters relating to all aspects of agriculture. Since the introduction of ARS, the Council has been giving continuous thought to the question of matching its personnel policies with the basic objectives of the organization and the requirements of its research programs. In order to bring reforms in the ARS, a Committee under the chairmanship of Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, ICAR was constituted in 2010. The Committee suggested a slew of measures including the merger of the disciplines, creation of new disciplines, broad changes in the qualifications, besides the involvement of NAARM in HRD for the improvement in the system. The subject matter divisions were created in ICAR on the recommendations GVK Rao Committee, 1988 to have inter-institutional linkages. The functional autonomy was provided to the scientists following the Johl Committee’s recommendations in 1995. Mashelkar Committee, 2005 recommendations for ICAR -Industry interface and Scientist- Entrepreneur tie-up were operationalized through National Agricultural Innovation Project and National Fund for Basic & Strategic Research. Taking leads from the recent review of ICAR by the Peer Review Committee chaired by Dr. T. Ramasami, Former Secretary, DST, the restructuring of ASRB, reforms in All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs), Cadre Review of ICAR, revision in ICAR Guidelines for Intellectual Property Management and Technology Transfer/Commercialization and accreditations of SAUs for standards in Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 421 higher agricultural education were implemented. Some of the other recommendations are also under active consideration. 4.7.2. Establishment of NAARM The National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) was established under ICAR at Hyderabad, in September 1976 to impart Foundation Training to the new entrants of the ARS. In 1979, it acquired its present name with expanded mandate to enhance the performance and effectiveness of the NARES through capacity building, research, in agricultural research and education management. ICAR operated a National Training Centre (NTC) for a period of two years at IARI, New Delhi to improve the quality of planning, formulation, evaluation and management of agriculture and allied projects. Later, National Commission on Agriculture (NCA) suggested the establishment of an All-India Institute of Agricultural Administration and Management for training the agricultural scientists in the principles of scientific research management.