 This species is widely distributed in India and Sri Lanka, specially in the warmer regions. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2700 Curing ulcers in mouth of children Volume 2, supplement I, page 177 Agara Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSTTY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Prickly elliptic capsule Bengali: shialkanta; Gujarati: darudi; Hindi: bhar-bhand, brahmadundi, satyanashi; Kannada: datturigidda; Malayalam: bhrahmadanti; Marathi: pivla dhotra; Oriya: kantakusham; Punjabi: bhatkateya; Sanskrit: bhrahmadandi; Tamil: kurukkum; Telugu: brahmadandi; Urdu: baramdandi. Mexican poppy, prickly poppy Argemone mexicana Linn. The seeds are emetic and narcotic. They are reported to be used for diarrhoea and dysentery; but taken in large quantities, they are poisonous. They yield a yellowish brown oil (22-37%), known as Argemone Oil. The oil is nauseous and non-edible. The seeds are externally very similar to those of rape and mustard (Brassica spp.). The seeds and the oil are employed to adulterate those of rape and mustard. The seed-cake can be used as fertilizer. The plant, when eaten by animals, causes diarrhoea and sleepiness. It is used as an insecticide. The aqueous and alcoholic extracts of the plant are reported to have stimulating effect on isolated parts of different animals. The aqueous extract of flowers and leaves possesses weak antibiotic property, whereas that of the bark possesses anti- viral property. The alcoholic extract of fresh leaves and roots inhibits the growth of Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus. The paste of the root mixed with onion is reported to be useful as an application in expelling guineaworms. An erect, prickly annual herb, up to 1.2 m in height, naturalized throughout India up to an altitude of 1,500 m. Leaves sessile, semi-amplexicaule, sinuately pinnatifid, spiny on margins, mid-rib and veins beneath; flowers yellow, 2.5-7.5 cm in diameter; capsules elliptic or oblong, prickly, rarely unarmed; seeds small, round, blackish-brown, deeply reticulate- scrobiculate. The herb is a very common weed in the agricultural and waste lands. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code : 2683 Title of the ITK : Curing cuts by use otkoinsiri (Commelina benghalensis) stem Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK English name Botanical name Geographical indications Volume 2, supplement I, page 178 Koinsiri Benghal day flower, day flower, hairy wandering Jew, Wandering Jew Commelina benghalensis Linn. Creeping herb with ascending stems; leaves broadly ovate, upto 5 cm long and 4 cm wide, pubescent, narrowed at base but not distinctly petiolate; spathe funnel-shaped, about 1-1.4 cm wide, green, flattened, flowers bright blue. Seeds 5 per capsule, transversely wrinkled. This plant is a serious weed of cultivated crops, found growing in plantations and orchards.