 Bark greyish or whitish, rough and furrowed on old trees; leaves variable in size and shape, 5-10 cm long, sinuate or lobed, white tomentose beneath; flowers small, in hairy catkins; capsules 6 mm long; seeds minute, hairy. Habit 852 Use of isabgol for control of diarrhoea and hookworm Volume 2, page 343 Isabgol Punjabi: isafghol. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Ispaghul Plantago amplexicaulis Cav. Seeds are considered astringent, and used in intermittent fever, pulmonary affections, and as an application to the eyes in ophthalmia. The endosperm contains protein and a fatty oil. A stemless or sub-caulescent herb widely distributed in the countries of the Mediterranean region, recorded occasionally from Rajasthan and Delhi. Leaves radical, narrowly lanceolate, entire or very sparingly toothed, flowers white, in ovoid spikes; capsules ovoid, sub-obtuse, pale brown, smooth, 2-seeded; seeds oblong, boat-shaped, brown or nearly black. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1173 Feeding of sheesham leaves to control diarrhoea in animals Volume 2, page 344 Sheesham Bengali: shisu; Gujarati: sisam, tanach; Hindi: shisham, sissu, sissai; Kannada: agaru, biridi; Malayalam: iruvil; Sanskrit: shinahapa, aguru; Tamil: sisu itti, gette; Telugu: errasissu, sinsupa. Sissoo Dalbergia sissoo Roxb. It is mainly used for timber purposes. Leaves are used as a fodder. The leaves are bitter and stimulant. A decoction of leaves is said to be used for gonorrhoea. The leaf mucilage mixed with sweet oil is applied in excoriation. The roots are astringent and wood is useful in cutaneous affection. A deciduous tree, often with crooked trunk and light crown. Under favourable conditions the Branch Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY tree attains a height of about 100 ft, a girth up to 8 ft and a clear bole up to 35 ft. It occurs throughout the sub- Himalayan tract, ascending up to 5,000 ft. It grows gregariously in alluvial forests characteristic of the riverbeds of these regions. It is extensively cultivated in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Assam. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1196 Control of diarrhoea by use of bael or baked bael (stone fruit) Volume 2, page 344 Bael Assamese, Bengali, Hindi and Marathi: bael, bel; Gujarati: bili; Kannada: bela, bilva; Malayalam: koovalam, vilvam; Oriya: belo; Sanskrit: bilva, sriphal: Tamil: bilva, vilvam; Telugu: bilavamu, maredu; Urdu: bel. Bael tree, Bengal quince Aegle marmelos (Linn.) Correa ex Roxb. The unripe or half-ripe fruit is regarded as astringent, digestive and stomachic.