 High palatability and digestibility make it an ideal crop for milch animal. However, chemical composition Ryegrass at vegetative stage Indian Farming 22 October 2023 mainly depends on maturity, stage of harvest and soil fertility. On an average, it contains 16% crude protein, 48-52% neutral detergent fibre, 30-35% acid detergent fibre, 7-8% total ash and 50-60% total digestible nutrient. Besides this, it is also good source of calcium and phosphorus. To get high biomass of ryegrass, the following improved agronomic practices should be adopted. Climate requirement It requires cold temperature range (18-25°C) for vegetative growth and warm temperature at the time of seed ripening. Temperature below 6-8°C hampered its growth considerably during the winter season. It thrives well under assured irrigated condition below 650 m elevation. Crop mixture/intercropping Ryegrass can be grown in monoculture or in mixture with berseem and shaftal to take first cut early in cool season. A balanced ratio of 40:60 of ryegrass + berseem gives good herbage yield. Intercropping of ryegrass with legumes (berseem and lucerne) and non-legumes (mustard, oats and barley) can also be done which may improve fodder quality with high protein. Ryegrass intercropping is given in Table 1. Table 1. Intercropping combinations Particular Average green fodder yield (q/ acre) Ryegrass + Berseem 240-280 Ryegrass + Oats 180-250 Ryegrass + Lucerne 240-320 Ryegrass + Mustard 200-240 Varieties Improved varieties of ryegrass are given in the Table 2. Soil type and land preparation It prefers cool climate and thrives well in medium to heavy texture soil due to their high water retention capacity and good edaphic environment. Ryegrass grows well on medium to heavy fertile soils. It thrives well in soil rich in calcium and phosphorus. The crop can resist mild acidity, but waterlogging has an adverse effect on crop growth. Ryegrass seeds are small thus, need a fine seedbed for proper germination and establishment. The crop requires well prepared level land with 3-4 ploughing followed by planking. The fine seed bed improves the germination and establishment of crop. Sowing time Optimum sowing time is non- monetary input which helps in improving fodder yield of ryegrass. Optimum time of sowing ensures all the stages of crop growth coincide with optimum weather condition. It should be sown from last week of September to first week of October to provide green fodder from November to May. Seed rate and sowing method For good harvest of crop, sow 4 kg seed per acre of land. Ryegrass seed is very light in weight, so sowing method is very important. Seeds should be sown very carefully in the field as seeds put deeper in the soil will not be able to break through the soil surface. Sowing should be done by broadcasting method in wet soil, which involves mixing the seed with moist soil and broadcasted over the well prepared levelled land.