 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2948 Mini tractor-drawn ridger, weeder and sugarcane leaf- mulcher 2949 Bicycle- weeder, tiller and harrow The ridger is developed as an attachment to the three-point hydraulic linkage of the mini tractor. The ridger comprises an upper main frame, a central shank and a ridger bottom. The distance between the outer edges of the rear wheels of the mini tractor is 1.2 m and total width of the implement is about 1 m. Hence in crop rows of 1.5 m normal spacing, the implement can be very easily used without damaging the crop. The moisture level of soil should be enough for the tool to penetrate. The cutting tool penetrates and cuts the soil. The soil is cut up to 22.5 cm depth and is lifted on the wing board on each side. The lifted soil is thrown on both sides. The tractor is moved in 'alternating field machine pattern' in the field by going from one end of the field in one direction between first and second rows and coming back in opposite direction after skipping the next two rows through fifth and sixth rows and alternating in a similar manner. The ridger-weeder is unique as it does both weeding and earthing-up in a single operation in sugarcane crop. There is a saving in cost and time by more than 60%. Since it helps in trash mulching and obviates the need for its burning, the ridger- weeds also contributes towards conserving moisture and improves organic matter content in the soil. Keywords: ridger, weeding, mulching, tractor, sugarcane, moisture After a lot of trial and error, Shri Gopal Malhari Bhise came out with an implement, fashioned out of the front axle, wheel and handle-bar of a standard bicycle, which can be used by the marginal farmers to conduct operations normally carried out by Shri P. K. Jeyakrishnan Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Gopal Malhari Bhise, Shendurni, dist. Jalgaon (Maharashtra) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2950 Wooden blade harrow for intercultivation of castor bullocks or tractors. In all his endeavours, Mainabai and his close friend Subhash Jagtap stood by him solidly. The latter, owner of Sachin Welding Works, helped him with his expert welding skills. Perseverance finally paid off and his portable implement, christened Krishiraja, was received very well in the local market. He has fabricated 213 devices so far. The whole set currently sells for approximately Rs 1,200 apiece. "It gives the much-needed independence to the small farmers who cannot obtain bullocks or a tractor in time," says Ramesh Mahajan, an extension worker in the Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension Services of North Maharashtra University. Keywords: ridger.