 The cow slaughter and consumption of beef increased manifold in northern India during the colonial period. But soon after the first war of independence in 1857, many native people were mobilized and they collectively started a movement for protection of cows. After rescuing the cows from the butchers, they were reared in Gaushalas. Large numbers of Gaushalas were established in the country for this purpose between 1880 and 1893. This movement also received the support of Mahatma Gandhi in the year 1891. Prohibition of cow slaughter was one of the many objectives of Swaraj movement. The British Government imposed some restrictions on slaughter of cattle in 1944 and the army was not allowed to slaughter working cattle, pregnant and milking animals and the cattle fit for bearing offspring. 4.8. Establishment of veterinary colleges and research institutions The first veterinary college was established at Lahore in 1882. Two years later, approval was granted for starting a three-year veterinary course in Parel, Mumbai. Afterwards, three more veterinary colleges were started in Madras, Calcutta and Bihar. Cattle Plague Commission which was appointed in 1868 after the severe outbreak of cattle plague epidemic led to the creation of Civil Veterinary Departments in the provinces in 1889. The Indian Civil Veterinary Department was established in 1902 and the responsibility of animal husbandry and dairying was entrusted to the provinces in 1919. The Cattle Plague Commission submitted its report in 1871 (Hallen et al. 1871). Scientific work on animal diseases in India started in 1889 when an Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory was established in Pune where Dr. Alfred Lingard worked on diseases of camel and horses (Sinha 2010). This laboratory was later shifted to Mukteswar, Uttarakhand in 1893 as its cool climate was favorable for bacteriological research and vaccine preservation. In 1913, another branch of the laboratory was opened in Izatnagar, Bareilly for mass production of vaccines and serum. It was renamed as Imperial Institute of Veterinary Research in 1925 and later on as Imperial Veterinary Serum Institute, Imperial Veterinary Research Institute and Indian Veterinary Research Institute respectively in 1930, 1936 and 1947. Meanwhile, an institute for dairy specific research was started in Bangalore in 1923 by the name Imperial Institute of Animal Husbandry & Dairying. It was renamed as Imperial Dairy Research Institute in 1936. Its headquarters was shifted to Karnal, Mother campus of ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute at Mukteswar, Uttarakhand Indian Agriculture after Independence 52 Haryana after the independence in 1955 and again renamed as National Dairy Research Institute. 5. Conclusion In the pre-independent India, animal husbandry was largely a subsistence activity. There was some knowledge about good animal breeds, feeding schedule and disease management.