 They are main raw material for many industries and certainly, seaweed farming can provide additional income to coastal farmers and improve their livelihood status (Table 2). The rising demand for seaweed-based products around the world is creating potential socio-economic benefits for coastal farming communities. Currently, many industries depend on natural seaweed resources or imports from other countries for the seaweed phycocolloids (agar, alginate and carrageenan). If seaweed cultivation is taken at the appropriate level, this sector will definitely be able to boost the fisherman’s income and national income as well. Way forward The extensive use of certain species of seaweed having economic potential may lead to the rapid depletion of natural algal biomass. So, there is a need to develop new and fast-growing methods for the cultivation of seaweeds. Selective breeding and genetic improvement of some economically beneficial seaweed varieties have to be done to improve the overall production yield of cultivated seaweed species. The state and central government should encourage the farmers in the coastal areas to take up seaweed farming by providing financial support and necessary schemes. The government and scientists should take care of technology demonstrations for commercial seaweed farming and processing of seaweeds for value- added products. SUMMARY Despite its numerous advantages, seaweed cultivation is in the budding stage in our country, and greater production can be attained with government support and initiatives. Tamil Nadu is the leading seaweed-cultivating state in the country with more than 180 spp. being cultivated. Seaweeds can be used as organic fertilizer which improves soil fertility and further improve crop production. Due to their high nutritive value, they have potential applications in the food industry as well. Seaweeds have the potential to reduce the impact of global warming through their ability to capture atmospheric carbon (carbon sequestration). Commercial seaweed cultivation has to be geared up in the country in order to meet the target production and lead the race globally. The other unknown economical uses of seaweed have to be exploited so that it will increase the income of the farmers and this in turn would contribute to the GDP of the country. Even with all the encouragement from the government and the economic value of the seaweeds, there is still a long way to go, to achieve their cultivation on large scale and hopefully, we will achieve this in the near future. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bhagavanreddyperudi3@gmail.com Cadalmin-Antidiabetic extract from seaweeds Source: https://www.cmfri.org.in/uploads/ images/big/Cadalmin-ADe.jpg Table 2. Economic analysis of seaweed cultivation Expenditure detail Kappaphycus alvarezii Gracilaria edulis Gelidiella acerosa Gracilaria dura Farmer’s contribution including infrastructure cost (`) 2,50,000 3,00,000 3,00,000 3,00,000 No.