 Sooranam, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) Shri Bhayajibhai Amrabhai Pagi, Hathivan Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator water is applied in the form of fomentation and is given 3 times a day for 7 days; and (ii) 1 part of the prepared mixture is given daily for 7 days orally. Keywords: ulukha, fenugreek, fomentation 3222 Use of puma noboi and root of .soru borial to cure mastitis in cattle In this ITK, puma noboi (Boerhaevia diffusa) and roots of soru borial (small) (Sida cordifolia) are taken and half the part is ground to make a paste, which is applied on the inflammed portion, and the remaining part is administered orally once for 5 days. Keywords: puma noboi, inflammed, udder Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3223 Use of koros and honey to cure mastitis in cattle 3224 Remedy to cure bovine mastitis 3225 Use of old tamarind to prevent mastitis in cows The whole herb, koros (Pongamia pinnata) is taken and is mixed with honey to make a paste. It is administered orally 3 times a day for 3 days. Keywords: koros, honey In this practice, 50-60 g leaves of Acalypha indica (kuppameni) and Cynandropsis gynandra (taiwela) are ground and extract is taken. Seeds of Abrus precatorius L. (gundu mani) is ground with the prepared extract to make a fine paste. This is externally applied once a day for 3 days. Also the root of Aristolochia indica (thalaisuruli) is crushed by adding 200-300 ml water and juice is extracted from it. This juice extract is filtered and is given to the affected animal orally, once a day for 3 days. Keywords: kuppameni, gundu mani, thalaisuruli Farmers of district Sambalpur use 200 g old fruits of tamarind (Tamarindus indica) for prevention of mastitis. Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Ayyathurai Konar, Krishnapuram, dist. Madurai, (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Ms Chandrakanti Mohapatra, Sambalpur (Orissa) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3226 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with kasondhi (Cassia sophera) leaf and salt 3227 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals using bhatt (Lathyrus sativus), black pepper and ghee 3228 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia in animals with using sira and leaves of gosraine They use 3-4 years old tamarind for soaking in water. A paste is prepared from it. The prepared paste is drenched to the cattle, once a day for 4-5 days.