 Some health benefits of fruits are lowering of blood pressure, anti-inflammatory properties, anti-microbial, promotes skin regeneration, strengthening November–December 2021 5 Branch with immature malabar tamarind fruits Mature fruits of bones, cancer disease, treatment of flu and coughs, alleviates allergies, treatment of arthritis, reduces stress, fights depression, lower cholesterol, regulate blood sugar, increase metabolism, boost energy levels. It has been reported that it has a protective ability against external toxins, such as alcohol. The extract of fruits is used as purgative in traditional medicine. The trees can be found in forested areas and backyard. There is almost no plantation of Malabar tamarind in India. The fruits are collected from forests or home gardens and sold in the market. It is estimated that almost 2500 tonnes of the dried rind is collected from forest and other areas. Malabar tamarind grows well under humid tropical climatic condition. Lot of variability was observed in terms of vegetative, Indian Horticulture 6 The fruit matures in the months of July-August. The fruit colour changes from green to bright yellow at maturity. The colour became dull yellow at ripe stages and fruit became soft. Generally fruit matures in 110- 125 days after fruit set. These fruits may be kept for 6-7 days for softening. Generally a 15 year old seedling plant produces 30-40 kg fruits per plant. The fruit is made into dried flakes, powder, vinegar, medicine, etc. The dried flakes are used as a substitute for tamarind in fish and pork curries. The dried flakes have lot of demand in Malnad and Kerala and sold at ₨ 300-800 per kg. The fruit vinegar floral, fruiting and biochemical character of the fruits and some collections were made. So far no variety has been released in India. However few promising lines have been identified at NBPGR RS, Thrissur; IISR, Calicut and CHES, Chettalli. The plant may be propagated by seed, grafting and root suckers. The planting is usually done at 6 × 6 m distance. The seedlings start flowering 8 to 10 years of planting whereas grafted plants starts flowering after 5-6 years. The flowering takes places in the month of March-April and fruits ripe by July–August but this may vary as per the climatic conditions. View of yellow mangosteen plantation Dried flakes Vinegar Seed butter Tablets of malabar tamarind November–December 2021 7 has lot of demand in Malnad and sold at ₨ 800-1600 per litre. The seed are used to extract Garcinia butter which has demand for cosmetic purposes. Yellow mangosteen (Garcinia xanthochymus) Yellow mangosteen is native of India, south eastern Asia and is widely distributed in the lower hills of Assam, Bengal, Odisha and Western Ghats from Konkan to Kerala. It is perennial tree with attractive crown that grows up to 8 m in height. The leaves are large and leathery and oblong to lanceolate. The fruit pulp is yellow, edible, and sweet to sour.