 Scab begins as small reddish or brownish spot on the surface of the potato tubers and its initial infection takes place during juvenile period of tubers. Infection takes place mainly through lenticels and surrounding periderm turns brown and rough. Lesion becomes corky due to elongation and division of invaded cells. Under Indian conditions multiple kinds of symptoms have been recorded and they are grouped as; a mere brownish roughening or abrasion of tuber skin; proliferated lenticels with hard corky deposition, might lead to star shaped lesion; raised rough and corky pustules; 3-4 mm deep pits surrounded by hard corky tissue; concentric series of wrinkled layers of cork around central black core. At least 13 different Streptomyces spp. viz. Streptomyces scabies, S. acidiscabies, S. turgidscabis, S. collinus, S. griseus, S. longisporoflavus, S. cinereus, S. violanceoruber, S. alborgriseolus, S. griseoflavus, S. catenulae have been found to cause common scab on potato worldwide. Streptomyces spp. may be pathogenic or non-pathogenic. The pathogenic species produce thaxtomins which are phytotoxins and cause hypertrophy and cell death. Ability to produce thaxtomin toxin is strongly correlated with the pathogen’s pathogenicity. Potato is physiologically most susceptible to Streptomyces spp. in the period following tuber initiation. Streptomyces species infects the newly formed tubers through stomata and immature lenticels. Once the periderm has Various types of scab symptoms caused by Streptomyces species on potato tubers Indian Horticulture 38 differentiated, tubers are no longer susceptible to the pathogen. The pathogen is both seed and soil borne. It can survive in soil for several years in plant debris and infested soil. Soil conditions greatly influence the pathogen. Favourable conditions include pH between 5.2-8.0 or more, temperature in the range of 20-30oC and low soil moisture. The pathogen is aerobic in nature and maintaining high soil moisture for 10-20 days after tuber initiation can help in reducing the common scab. The organism is a tuber-borne and is well-adapted saprophyte that persists in soil on decaying organic matter and manure for several years. Infected tubers serve as source of inoculum in the field, giving rise to infected progeny tubers. Management The pathogen is difficult to eradicate because of long survival both on seed tubers and in soils. Therefore, following practices to minimize the inoculum and creating adverse condition for pathogen spread/disease development are recommended: • Use only disease free seed tubers. • Give tuber treatment with boric acid (3% for 30 minutes) and dry under shade before cold storage (for seed purpose only). • Irrigate the crop repeatedly to keep the moisture near to field capacity right from tuber initiation until the tubers measure 1 cm in dia. • Maintain high moisture in ridges at least for a few weeks during the initial tuberization phase.