 ICAR Awards 205 Acronyms 209 Index 213  Indian Council of Agricultural Research President, ICAR Society, and : Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Senior Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Parshottam Rupala (From 7 July, 2021) Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry Shri Giriraj Singh (Till 6 July, 2021) and Dairying Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Kailash Choudhary Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Union Minister of State for Agriculture : Shusri Shobha Karandlaje (From 8 July, 2021) and Farmers Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala (Till 6 July, 2021) Union Minister of State for Fisheries, : Shri Sanjeev Kumar Balyan (From 7 July, 2021) Animal Husbandry and Dairying Dr L Murugan (From 7 July, 2021) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR : Dr Trilochan Mohapatra Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR : Shri Sanjay Garg (From 25 August, 2021) Shri Sanjay Singh (Till 30 June, 2021) Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, : Shri Sanjiv Kumar (From 1 September, 2021) DARE/ICAR The Mandate of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research  Plan, Undertake, Coordinate and Promote Research and Technology Development for Sustainable Agriculture.  Aid, Impart and Coordinate Agricultural Education to enable Quality Human Resource Development.  Frontline Extension for Technology Application, Adoption, Knowledge Management and Capacity Development for Agri-based Rural Development.  Policy, Cooperation and Consultancy in Agricultural Research, Education and Extension. I highlight the ICAR’s accomplishments and progress towards achieving the Strategic Objectives, Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) and output outcome framework articulated during the year. ICAR ensures that groundbreaking discoveries and technologies to reach our farmers, producers and consumers. We at ICAR are working towards self-reliant agriculture, most customer-focused activities and achieve ICAR’s strategic goals to ensure agricultural and rural prosperity. ICAR solves societal challenges through collaboration with our other partners, including academic and science organizations; small business and industry; agencies from all levels of government; and non-governmental, public, and private organizations. ICAR continued strong collaboration with other agencies to help Indian agriculture to become more efficient and competitive, to sustain natural resources and the environment, to enhance the safety of our nation’s food supply and improve nutrition. Indian agriculture and rural life have undergone tremendous transformation since independence. Agricultural development is an integral part of overall economic growth and was the main source of national income and occupation at the time of Independence. It contributed about 50% to India’s national income, and around 72% of total working population was engaged in agriculture at that time.