 Advantages of capsicum cultivation under polyhouse yy Higher productivity and profitability yy Better quality of produce yy Efficient use of water and fertilizers yy Better management of pests and diseases yy Off-season production yy Additional employment generation For further interaction, please write to: Hemlata Bharti (Scientist), Centre for Protected Cultivation Technology ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012. Corresponding author e-mail: hemlatafloriculture@gmail.com Leaf curl virus disease in capsicum Indian Horticulture 10 Priyanka Suryavanshi*, Dipender Kumar and Abdul Mazeed Menthol mint cultivation – Step towards Atmanirbhar Bharat Improving farmer’s income through technological intervention is the urgent need in rural areas for making Indian farmers self-dependent and achieving Atmanirbhar Bharat dream for better India. Adoption of improved package of practice developed for menthol mint cultivation is needed to get higher returns and crop diversification. Menthol mint is grown for menthol used in pharmaceutical and flavour industry. India is a leading supplier of menthol mint oil to the world, and a large number of farmers in India are being benefitted by its cultivation. Menthol mint is today a major industrial crop, thanks to research scientists for providing farmers with high oil-yielding superior varieties of the mint plant. Prospects A MONG different essential oils produced in India today, Mentha arvensis (menthol mint) oil holds prominent position in terms of acreage under the crop production and domestic consumption and export to the world market. Today India is the largest producer and exporter of natural menthol in the world. The annual turnover of the menthol industry has been in the range of ` 3,500–4,000 crores during the past one decade. Menthol mint is presently cultivated in more than 2.50 lakh hectares land of North India. It is believed that over 5 lakh farming families grow menthol mint crop contributing 75–80% global menthol mint oil produce. Uttar Pradesh contributes about 70–75% of the total national production of menthol mint oil. Menthol mint yields 130–150 kg mint oil/ha (single harvest) giving a net profit in the range of ` 60–70,000 in about 3 and a half months. Taking the lesson of success of menthol mint cultivation from the farmers of UP, the area under mint is now spreading to other states in the country including Bihar, parts of Punjab. CSIR, in its efforts to improve the socio­economic status of people in the country who are at the bottom of the pyramid of life, is focusing to bring S&T interventions in the areas of health, agriculture, and energy, resulting in equitable and inclusive growth. One such classic example of the proper utilization of a CSIR technology for the economic empowerment of rural India is the cultivation of superior varieties of mint, commonly called Pudina.