 Sheep Whole mitogenome based genetic diversity analysis of Indian sheep: The complete mitochondrial genome sequences of 88 Indian sheep representing 22 breeds/population were analyzed to get a comprehensive picture of the maternal diversity in the sheep genetic resources of India. The mitochondrial DNA sequence of all Indian sheep was observed to be 16,617 bp long and contained 37 genes, including 13 protein coding genes, 2 rRNA genes, 22 tRNA genes, and a control region. With the exception of NAD6 gene and eight tRNA genes, all other genes were encoded on the heavy strand of the mitogenome. Sequence analysis of all 88 samples yielded a total of 84 novel haplotypes icar annual report 2022-23 65 in Indian sheep, with an overall haplotype diversity (Hd) value of 0.999, and nucleotide diversity (π) equal to 0.00183. The AMOVA analysis between the four separate clusters representing northern temperate, southern peninsular, eastern and north-western arid and semi-arid regions attributed maximum genetic variance within the clusters and less variance between the clusters. Phylogenetic relationships based on ovine haplogroups (A-E) revealed clear separation of domestic sheep from the wild ones. Indian sheep showed conformity to haplogroups A and B reported across the world. Avishaan sheep: The prolificacy in Avishaan ewes was 70.79% with litter size of 1.91. The average daily milk yield in ewes during the autumn lambing was 814 g. Since last four years, lambs born were 100% FecB gene carrier suggesting segregation of FecB gene in the progenies as a major gene. In field units of Avishaan, a total of 64 lambs were born out of 36 lambing of Avishaan ewes with a prolificacy of 75% and litter size of 1.80. Network Project on Sheep Improvement (NWPSI): The NWPSI aims at genetic evaluation and continuous improvement of indigenous sheep breeds through selection for better growth and wool production. The project includes four farm and two field based cooperating centres located in various ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural/Veterinary Universities. A total of 425 male and 142 female sheep of different breeds were sold for genetic improvement of farmer’s flock. Mega Sheep Seed Project (MSSP): The project has four cooperating units: KVAFSU, Bidar for Mandya Sheep; TANUVAS, Chennai for Mecheri Sheep; RAJUVAS, Bikaner for Sonadi Sheep and ICAR-CSWRI, Avikanagar for Malpura sheep. The major objective of the project is improvement of indigenous sheep breeds by propagation of superior germplasm in the farmers’ flock by production and distribution/sale of 70 superior breeding rams to cover at least 2,500 breeding ewes of farmers annually by each unit.