9. National and international collaborations Collaborations in research with national and international agencies have major role in shaping the path for agricultural development in India. The collaboration with CIMMYT and IRRI for exchange of dwarf wheat and rice varieties, respectively triggered the efforts for the Green Revolution making India food secure. The ICAR-CGIAR collaborations expanded to various commodities and strategic locations for development of new crop varieties and animal breeds and also managing natural resources. Development of new breeds by harnessing the potentials of the exotic breeds, vaccines and diagnostics, quality standards, health, nutrition and hygiene standards and protocols came out from the international and national collaborations in livestock and fisheries sector. The bilateral cooperation in agricultural R&D extended to all continents touching to 65 nations in 2020- 21. India as a founder member of SAARC, BRICS, BIMSTEC shaped the agricultural regional cooperation with member Nations. India made an impressive footprint in its neighbourhood through the establishment of ANASTU in Afghanistan, ACARE in Myanmar, Deemed University for Agricultural Education in Nepal. More information on national and international collaborations are presented in Chapter 15. 4.10. Policy innovations The agricultural transformation in India from food deficit to food surplus in the past 75 years has seen many bold and dynamic policy interventions. Immediately after the independence, the establishment of SAUs on the land grant pattern of the USA was the policy milestone that resulted into one of the largest agricultural research systems in the world. Imports of seed of dwarf varieties of rice and wheat was another policy decision in 1964 onwards that helped furthering the crop sciences in the country. The policies related to regulations and facilitation of germplasm exchange helped new seeds and planting materials for the research system. Several acts and institutions came into being, modified and remodified with the passage of time to attract scientific research in agriculture, promote public and private investment and facilitate the farmers and others involved ‘in’ and ‘for’ Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 23 agriculture. The Cooperative Societies Act, passed in 1904, and its subsequent reforms for credit support to the farmers was a major milestone. Post-independence, several state- owned commodity institutions were brought under ICAR to reorient and refocus their strength for national and regional aspirations. The input and technology intensive Green Revolution accelerated the need for financial support for agriculture. In the year 1974, the commercial banks were advised to raise the share of the ‘priority sectors’ including agriculture in their aggregate advances to the level of 33.3%.