 Crop modeling To estimate crop yield and yield response to management practices in areas under LBIP command, but outside the Bhavani river basin, the AquaCrop model was used. It is a simple crop growth model (https://www.fao.org/aquacrop) with the bare minimum of parameters required to simulate the crop response to water, soil water and salt balances. The model represents soil–plant-atmosphere interactions to simulate the impacts of environment and management practices on crop production (Raes et al., 2009; Kang et al., 2021). Precipitation and temperature are two climate inputs used to calculate ET0 using the FAO Penman-Monteith equation. The canopy cover, represented through phenological characteristics of the plant, is used to calculate the evap­ oration and transpiration components. The model was run with a multi- year simulation and was calibrated for yield using data from 2005 to 2015 at a daily time step, with a calibration period of 2005–2010 and validation with the remaining years. To calibrate the yield, crop pa­ rameters such as initial crop canopy cover, maximum canopy cover, time to reach maximum canopy, senescence and maturity, shape factor for canopy expansion, maximum harvest index etc. were adjusted. 3.4. Creating stress response surface through stress testing A stress test was conducted using the water resources system model to examine how system performance responds to changes in climatic stressors. The stressors were changed by considering the range of change in climatic variables such as precipitation and temperature. Multiple combinations of the stressors were considered to develop alternative future conditions, and time series were generated using weathergen (Steinschneider and Brown, 2013; https://walkerjeffd.github.io/weathe rgen/), an R package for generating synthetic weather series, developed by the University of Massachusetts Amherst, Hydrosystems group. The generated series were given as inputs to the water resources system model and the response of the system was plotted as a stress response surface. The climate projections from RCMs were superimposed on this response surface to test the plausibility of alternative future conditions. Stress response surfaces were created to represent the combined effect of climate stressors on performance metrics. Finally, a risk matrix was developed by considering arbitrary classifications of performance met­ rics and the plausibility levels. Fig. 9. Historical performance of the LBIP, represented in terms of the two performance metrics, yield ratio and supply–demand ratio. A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 11 4. Results 4.1. Decision context, performance metrics and thresholds Levels of system performance as acceptable to the main stakeholders – irrigation and agricultural department officers and farmers, were defined. The basin rainfall shows a decreasing trend in monsoon rainfall over the years (Table 5).