 • The trays are provided with protective cover from rain by covering with polyethylene sheets in the form of low tunnel whenever it rains. • The seedlings at right stage of planting are hardened by withholding irrigation and reducing the shade before transplanting or selling to the growers. • Systemic insecticides should be sprayed 7–10 days after germination and before transplanting for managing the insect vectors. • The seedlings would be ready in about 21–42 days for Staking in (a) tomato and (b) ridge gourd crop transplanting to the main field depending upon the crop. Staking vegetable production in tomato and ridge guard Yields of summer tomato do not always reach the full production potential because of inadequate management. Improved management such as, staking and pruning could improve the yield of tomatoes. Staking refers to support of plants with sturdy material to keep the fruits and foliage off the ground. Staking increases fruit yield, reduces the proportion of unmarketable fruit, enhances the production of high quality fruits, prevents disease and fruit rot, allows better aeration and better exposure of the foliage to sunlight and photosynthetic activities. In tomato and ridge gourd, plants are staked by jute or nylon string hanging from the top of the tunnel which is less costly. Pruning is the selective removal of side shoots or stem to limit plant growth and to divert nutrients to flower clusters on the remaining shoot or stem. In order to maximize the efficiency of photosynthesis and minimize the risk of diseases, pruning is necessary when the growth is extremely dense. Pruning tomato plants regulate N: CHO ratio within the plant, and enhance fruiting. Literature indicates that productivity per area increases when pruning tomato plants to two stems. That greater marketable yield/area was obtained by pruning indeterminate tomato plants to two stems rather than one Table 3. Effects of staking and stem pruning on yield of summer tomato and ridge gourd Treatment Plant height (cm) Days to flowering Fruit set (%) Days to first harvest Days to last harvest Individual fruit weight (gm) Fruit length (cm) Fruit diameter (cm) Yield per plant (kg) Yield (t/ ha) Staking 135 46 37.15 86 121 47.8 4.36 4.50 1.37 38.1 Pruning 147 46 38.64 83 116 50.1 4.47 4.59 1.19 31.7 Control 121 45 26.12 88 125 42.6 4.15 4.36 1.05 30.4 (Table 3). So, the requirements of stem pruning and staking system are variable for different variety and growing conditions. In our study plants were staked on inverted V shaped staking hanging from the top of the poly tunnel and the plants were pruned to two stem at the farmers’ field. SUMMARY In vegetable crops plastic mulching increases the temperature of the plow-layer, reduces soil moisture loss during crop growth, increases radiation and water use efficiencies, produces more photo assimilates and increases source and sink size during crop growth ultimately increasing crop yield.