 The contribution of National Professors and National Fellows in the form of technologies, patents, copyrights has immensely benefited the knowledge pool of the country. 2.2.3 ICAR Emeritus Professors The ICAR Emeritus Professor program is a relatively new initiative for tapping brain and skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of NAREE system. It strives to utilize their talent in teaching courses and other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/text books including e-learning resources for use in national agricultural education programme and distance education in the field of agriculture, veterinary science & animal husbandry, fisheries, community science, dairy technology and allied sciences. Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 11 This initiative is expected to improve the quality of education in most of the universities by addressing the shortage of faculty. 2.2.4 ICAR Emeritus Scientists This programme aims at utilizing services of outstanding superannuated scientists/teachers from NAREE system for supporting ongoing nationally important research, teaching specialized courses, developing quality instructional material for use in national agricultural education programme including distance education. The programme has helped to make use of the experience of retired professionals for remedying manpower imbalances in some of the crucial areas of research. This initiative besides primarily focusing on completion of the on-going research projects also aims to initiate new programmes in nationally important priority areas. 2.2.5 Centres of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) 40 Centres of Advanced Faculty Training are approved across the country for undertaking discipline oriented advanced training for teaching, research and extension in cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences for enhancing the capabilities of faculty for use in educational innovations, modern teaching and research methodologies along with serving as repository of ideas and information in concerned disciplines. 2.2.6 Niche Area of Excellence Niche Area of Excellence (NAE), one of the most prestigious programmes of ICAR, aims to create global competitiveness in agricultural education and research. It was initiated during 2006-07 with an overall objective to achieve educational excellence in teaching, research and capacity building in frontier areas of agriculture and its allied disciplines. It is aimed that, at least in each SAU, one centre of excellence is developed to promote research through excellence in teaching, research, consultancy and other services in chosen niche/specific areas to compete with the best in the world. The NAEs supported by ICAR have accomplished the task in diverse areas, focusing on sustenance of quality of natural resources through diversification and productivity enhancement. 2.2.