 This practice is followed Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  widely in the village Samloti in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Farmers are fully satisfied with the practice and can store the grain for longer period without any damage to the grain. Keywords: walnut, mentha, neem, eucalyptus, grain storage, peru, insect pests 2439 Use of jungle pudina (Mentha arvensis) for grain storage Farmers collect jungle pudina (Mentha arvensis) from fields generally near village springs/ grath/ in forest having humus soils. Collected pudina leaves are dried, ground and then used for grain storage. Storage bins are locally made of bamboo. Seed is kept in gunny bags. Pudina powder is used in the ratio of 1:1000 i.e 1 g in 1 kg of dry seed. This practice is adopted in such areas where pudina is available easily and farmers don't have either purchasing capacity or pesticides are not available for the farmers. Keywords: jungle pudina, grain storage Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2449 Use of draink leaves against storage grain pests Draink (Melia azadirach) is a widely growing plant and is found in the vicinity of other herbs. Draink plants are known to have insecticidal properties. The leaves and fruits of the plants are used by the people of whole sub tropical region of Jammu and Kashmir which are put inside the grain storage structure to check the menace of insect-pest. Keywords: draink leaves, storage grain pest, insecticidal property Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2459 Use of copper sulphate in lime for internal white wash of earthen kuthia or bukhari for safe storage of grains For safe storage of food grains, earthen kuthia or bukhari is made with a small outlet. This earthen bin is plastered with cement from inside and white- washed with lime mixed with copper sulphate. It is dried well. The dried grain is mixed with dry neem leaves. The grain is filled in the bin and the outlet of the bin is covered with dried earthen lid very tightly. The grain is now safe for storage. Shri Amar Singh Nayabas Kutabpur, Dibai, Bulandshahr (Uttar Pradesh) 202 393  About 50-70 % villagers of Bulandshahr, Aligarh and Etah districts of Uttar Pradesh are using this practice for more than 100 years.