 Theme 2: role of digitalization in access to credit Stakeholders were also asked regarding the impact and role of digi­ talization of loan approval process for better outcome. While few ini­ tiatives will directly impact farming community, few other initiatives will enable financial institutions to supply agricultural credit to farmers more effectively and with reduced risk. Participants have provided 4 major aspects in this regard (Table 3): digitalization of loans, literacy programs, land mapping and integrated program. 3.2.1. Digitalization of loan According to the informants, the digitalization of loans will stream­ line the credit application and approval process. Digitalization also re­ duces processing time and costs which makes it easier for farmers to access credit when they need it the most. An NGO representative who also own farms, shared opinion on this regard which illustrates how digitalization of loan approval process will ease in overcoming psychological barriers. “Digitalizing the loan approval process makes every step visible and predictable, which helps to ease farmers' fears of hidden biases or unfair practices. When farmers can track their loan application in real time, it reduces uncertainty and builds trust in formal systems. This transparency, along with clear, digital guidance, effectively lowers the psychological barriers that have long kept many farmers from accessing credit” (P 54). Stakeholders are of the opinion that innovative loan processes are emerging as effective tools to break down the mental barriers that have traditionally kept farmers from accessing formal credit. “Digital loan approvals mean I no longer have to travel long distances or wait in long queues. I can apply for a loan from my smartphone and receive updates in real time, which makes managing my farm finances much simpler” (P 10). With online loan tracking, I will have better clarity about my application status. This transparency gives me confidence to invest in new farming techniques, as I know exactly when to expect financial support” (P 18). Table 3 Digital Impact in access to credit. Themes Supporting Statements Digitalization of Loan “Online applications reduce barriers for rural farmers seeking financial support” (P 35) “Loans through digital tools enhance transparency and reduce processing time” (P 18) Literacy Program “Understanding digital technology helps farmers use banking platforms” (P 17) “It is very difficult for farmers in rural areas to navigate through digital tools” (P 64) Land Mapping “Mapping technologies ensure equitable credit allocation to deserving farmers” (P 5) “Land data enhances farmers' credibility and access to financial resources” (P 13) Integrated Platform “One-stop platforms make it easier for farmers to apply for and deal with loans.