 Seed system is an integral part that has been identified to enhance the quality of seeds, to provide a source for the production of a wide range of crops, and to increase the yield. This article briefly discusses the various seed systems in millets. Keywords: Millets, Seed, Seed systems U NDERSTANDING seed systems is essential for maintaining crop biodiversity on farms in areas where it has societal relevance for future crop improvement and the resilience of the farming system as well as personal benefit to farmers. In general, seed system is mainly of two types, formal seed system and informal seed system. Considering inability of these two systems to meet seed needs to diverse groups and farming systems, recently, integrated seed system has emerged in the literature as a complementary system to make the seed system more holistic and pluralistic. Formal seed systems are easier to characterize as they are deliberately constructed, involving a chain of activities leading to clear products, i.e. certified seed of verified varieties. The chain usually starts with plant breeding and selection, resulting in different varieties, hybrid parents including hybrids and materials leading to formal cultivar release and maintenance. In practice, these systems may be constrained by their capacity to meet the diverse needs of farmers in developing countries. The guiding principles in the formal system are maintenance of varietal identity and genetic purity coupled with production of seed that possesses optimal physical, physiological and sanitary qualities. The central premise of the formal system is that there is a clear distinction between seed and grain. This distinction is less clear in informal seed systems. Indian Farming 73 (01): 76-78; January 2023 Informal systems are also referred to as local, traditional or farmer seed systems. In an informal seed system, farmers themselves produce, disseminate and access seed directly from their own harvest, through exchange and barter among friends, neighbours and relatives, and through local grain markets. Encompassing a wide range of variations, local systems are characterized by their flexibility. The varieties disseminated may be landraces or mixed races and may be heterogeneous. In addition, the seed is of variable quality in terms of purity and physical, and physiological parameters. While some farmers treat seed specially, there is not always a distinction between seed and grain. Seed sources for informal and formal seed systems Seed systems in dryland ecosystems are basically influenced by their pace of seed replacement, seed- to grain price ratios, distance to seed sources and the quantity of seed traded by formal and informal means. Both systems have their own limitations in which farmers procure seed by different sources depending on the situation and location.