 They collected Kyat 500,000 and matching contribution was provided from the project with which they started micro-finance among the members, and now effort is to link them with industry. Myanmar Agro-Foods Limited have agreed to be the partner. Meeting were organized with the farmers in villages, namely GO Min, Aung Pan Chaung Sauk for field demonstration for blackgram in post-rainy season. Content development for touch screen: Presently farmers depend on input dealers for modern technologies, who propagate greater use of inputs available with them thus increasing the cost of cultivation. The faculty from YAU was assisted to develop content on all major field crops and fruits and vegetables, and make available new technologies to the farming community through Touch screen. Good progress has been made in developing content for rice, and for other crops the exercise is on. CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES The Central Agricultural Universities are sponsored by DARE. Activities of CAU situated in Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), Imphal (Manipur) and Pusa (Bihar) are given here. Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi The Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University, Jhansi made steady progress. Laboratories, instruction facilities and crop cafeteria and demonstration units undergraduate programmes in Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry B. Sc. (Hons) Agriculture programme, B.Sc. (Hons.) Horticulture, and B.Sc. (Hons.) Forestry), were developed. The research work was primarily focused to enhance chickpea production in Bundelkhand region with multi- pronged approach of breeding, disease-resistance, seed production, intercropping and nutrient and water management Central Agricultural University, Imphal The Central Agricultural University, Imphal having PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 136 13 constituent colleges is a fully residential university covering all the North-Eastern Hills states under its jurisdiction except Asom. The University offers 9 undergraduate, 37 Masters and 20 Ph.D. Degree programmes in different subjects/ disciplines at its 13 constituent colleges. A total of 1,970 students are currently studying in the university (including the newly admitted students in undergraduate 484; postgraduate 173 and Ph.D. 22 students). At present the university has 75 ongoing internally funded research projects and 110 externally funded projects including 35 All India Coordinated Research Projects and 4 All India Network Research Projects. A total of 41 location specific recommendations and scientific findings in agriculture and allied sciences for NEH region were developed by the university. Krishi Vigyan Kendra, East Siang, Arunachal Pradesh under Central Agricultural University, Imphal received the prestigious Pandit Deendayal Upadhyay Rashtriya Krishi Vigyan Protshahan Puruskar for Zone VI on 15 March 2017 at New Delhi. The KVK has mobilized farmers for adopting innovative technologies in the region.