 This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 105 January 2023 Role of FPOs in strengthening millet value chain Sangappa* and D Rafi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 In India, majority of the farmers are small and marginal farmers involved in agriculture and allied activities for their livelihood. To help small and marginal farmers, Government of India has initiated a concept of Farmer Producer Organization (FPO). Farmer Producer Organizations of Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) are playing a major role in bringing farmers together by helping them in identifying markets, creating a unique platform for collective purchase of inputs and marketing of produce in bulk, thereby eliminating or reducing the number of intermediaries in the existing supply channel. Keywords: Forward and backward linkages, FPOs, Markets, Supply chain R ISKS in agricultural production have been a major concern for small and marginal farmers in India, and to eradicate the same, a concept of Farmer Producer Organization (FPO) has been initiated by Government of India. FPOs consist of farmers who are the producers of agricultural products that can form groups and are intended to mobilize small farmers for forward and backward linkages. FPOs have potential to address key gaps in agricultural supply chain by eliminating intermediaries, collective bargaining to small and marginal farmers, strengthening the market linkages, farm gate processing units at villages etc. ICAR-IIMR FPOs ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) is a nodal agency that is working exclusively on millets and acting as Cluster Based Business Organization (CBBO) for 41 FPOs in four states, viz. Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Telangana and Madhya Pradesh (Table 1). The implementing agencies for ICAR-IIMR, FPOs across the states are SFAC, NABARD, WDD (Govt. of Karnataka), NCDC and NFSM. List of commodities available with FPOs FPOs of ICAR-IIMR have diversified commodities as shown in Table 2. In Karnataka, most of the FPOs have millets, pulses and oilseeds as their prime commodities and in Telangana millets, mangoes, pulses, groundnut and paddy are the major commodities available with FPOs. In Andhra Pradesh, diversified products like millets, spices, honey, seasonal fruits, cashew, groundnut and pulses are available and in Madhya Pradesh, all type of millets are available (Table 2).