 This mixture is well pounded together and the extracted juice is diluted with water and drenched into the animals throat. This treatment helps the buffaloes to release the gas and ultimately curing the tympany. Keywords: Haemorrhagic septicemia, macoy, neem, amaltas, mastitis, brucellosis, antiseptic, foot and mouth disease, tympany, ginger, pepper, salt, asafoetida IV. Management practices: (a) Animals are kept by the farmers alongside their dwellings, in order to facilitate women to look after their  animals. (b) Wallowing is the other practices which is most widely followed that helps in increasing milk production in buffaloes. (c) Roofing of the animal sheds is done with locally available material such as cotton sticks, waste paddy straw and locally available grasses. It keeps the animals comfortable in summer and winter. (d) Farmers still prefer mud flooring for buffloes in their houses because buffloes are more comfortable on mud flooring. Keywords: dwellings, wallowing, roofing, flooring 2301 Agricultural knowledge system in ancient India and its relevance in sustainable development Shri A.K. Pandey studied the agricultural knowledge system in ancient India and its relevance in sustainable development regarding animal husbandry, veterinary science, animal nutrition, pasture management, management of animals, milk and milk products pertaining to dairy technology, improvement of animal breeds, improvement through hybridization and animal training, for the partial fulfillment to obtain the Ph.D degree (Extension Education) which has been accepted by Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi in 1997. Keywords: agricultural knowledge system, pasture management, hybridization Shri Anil Kumar Pandey Department of Extension Education, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 221 005 806 Seasonal migration of domestic animals Seasonal migration of animals from higher reaches to lower areas in winter and vice-versa in summer is a common practice in Shimla district and tribal areas of Himachal Pradesh. In the beginning of cold weather (October- November) the animals are driven to the lower hills of Kangra, Nurpur and Pathankot, from where they are brought back in April to their own villages to manure the fields, and in June they are given to a shepherd for the summer months. After a month in the Trakar pastures some animals are led to the shars of Chaurah, Bharmaur and to other parts, and other animals are taken ITK project Staff MRDA, Summer Hill Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  over the passes of the Pangi range to the gahars of Pangi and Lahaul, where they remain during July and August. In the beginning of September the herd commences the age-old return journey from Pangi range, from where they are brought back to the Trakar pasture. In October, they are traditionally taken to the village to manure the fields, whose owners have to provide food for the shepherds and their dogs as well as fuel at night.