 Overall, with similarities in environmental and socio-economic resources-base among some of the G20 members’ countries provide further opportunities to have more intense coordination and grassroots level works to promote and replicate local and scientific knowledge in integrated form to strengthen sustainable agriculture. With this, the G20’s may prove its leading role in ensuring sustainable food systems, environmental sustainability, and achieving the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. SUMMARY The challenges posed by global environmental change have serious consequences on sustainable agriculture and farmers’ livelihood. Such challenges cannot be achieved only either of scientific and traditional knowledge systems. Both the knowledge systems can be used complementarily to minimize agricultural risks and enhance the sustainability. This can help the agrarian community to take better and collective decisions while increasing stakeholders’ participation in the process of knowledge generation and its replication. Thus, the community may become more democratic in knowledge access, and use and make the agricultural enterprise more sustainable, creating a socially equitable and food-secure society. To achieve this, a multiple stakeholder’s partnership can be built to get involve different level of players in the process of understanding and establishing synergy among knowledge systems. India’s G20 Presidency have opened various agricultural avenues where multi-stakeholders with multiple institutors can work together to understand diverse knowledge systems. Such reciprocal learning among the stakeholders can ease the processes of understanding local to regional issues of sustainable agriculture where collective ideas and solutions can be developed and shared while achieving not only the agricultural sustainability among G20 countries, but also the several SDGs. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ranjaysingh_jbp@rediffmail.com Indian Farming 48 June 2023 Reducing carbon emissions from agriculture for environmental security Ram K Fagodiya* and H Pathak ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Climate change, caused by enhanced greenhouse gases (GHGs) emission arisen as the most prominent environmental issue globally. Agriculture contributed 11.9, 10.0 and 14% of total GHG emission of world, G20 countries and India, respectively. During 2016, GHG emissions from Indian agriculture was 407.8 Mt CO2 eq. Enteric fermentation contributed highest (54.6%), followed by agricultural soil (19.1%), rice cultivation (17.5%), crop residues burning (6.7%) and manure management (2.2%). During 1970–2016, GHG emission from Indian agriculture increased by 75%, however, relative contribution decreased from 33 to 14% during same period.