 The high cost of seed (````` 60,000-75,000 per hectare), which accounts for 40-50% of the total cost of production, has been a key deterrent for small farmers to take up production in many of these states. I n India, potato seeds are produced in Punjab using seed plot technique and aeroponic technology and transported up to 2,000 km to potato growing states of eastern and southern India. The high transportation cost is borne by the poor farmers who have to pay high seed prices as well. To make matters worse, the high price does not Indian Horticulture 64 guarantee high quality, thus making it difficult for small and marginal farmers to invest such a large sum in seed purchases which accounts for nearly half of the total cost of production. The spread of aeroponic technology has been limited to Punjab because of its high capital requirement and long gestation period of nearly four years before any return comes in. If a low-cost technology can be made available to produce seed potato at cheaper price then these eastern and southern states have immense potential to increase potato production by improving productivity and lowering cost of production. Potato Vegetable and Flower Research Centre (PVFC) in Dalat, Vietnam is a leader in apical rooted cuttings for producing mini tubers and seed tubers. Recently, this technology has been standardised at ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute Shimla, India for the very first time. The results were remarkable which suggests that the technology can be used for production of quality planting material at low cost by the local growers. The soil and environment in many parts of the eastern and southern regions are suitable for cultivating potato seed in rabi season (October-March) and in some areas like Hassan in Karnataka and Koraput in Odisha, it can be grown in kharif season (July-October) also. Specifically, the north eastern states could be potato seed hub supplying seeds to West Bengal, Odisha and Bihar. Introduction to apical cuttings Apical cuttings are rooted transplants produced in a glasshouse from tissue culture plantlets. Rather than allowing tissue culture plantlets to mature and produce minitubers, cuttings are produced from the plantlets. Once rooted, the cuttings are transplanted into the field to produce seed tubers. In aeroponic, tissue culture plantlets are used to produce minitubers using capital intensive aeroponic technology in screen houses, whereas in apical cuttings the tissue culture plantlets are used as mother plants in cocopeat for producing cuttings. Apical cuttings are an alternative to minitubers in current production seed systems for potato. Principle When the apical bud is removed, the lowered IAA concentration allows the lateral buds to grow and produce new shoots. Once the apical dominance has been lifted from the plant, elongation and lateral growth is promoted and the lateral buds grow into new branches which are further used to increase the multiplication rate.