 l Paddy transplanted through engine-operated transplanter proved very effective in maintaining proper plant population. l Feeding of urea (4%)-enriched wheat straw increased the palatability of the straw (30–35%), milk production (average 0.8 kg/day in cows and 0.6 kg in buffaloes) and improved the body condition (0.5–1.0 point). This technique can save up to 1 kg/animal/day of concentrates. l Treatment of dairy animals with Piperazine @ 20 mg/30 kg body weight for the control of endoparasites, increased the milk production considerably. The dairy animals treated with Butox @ 50 ml/animal repeated 3 times at 10-day intervals controlled the ticks, significantly improved the milk production and animal health. l Honey yield by Italian bees was 40 kg/box, compared with 15 kg/box in local strains. l The use of an indigenous technical knowledge of growing pointed gourd on scaffold with or without application of Mancozeb could protect the crop from fruit and vine rot disease caused by Phytophthora sp. for 270–300 days after planting. A 17.50–38.24% increase in yield compared to the farmer’s practice of growing the crop on soil was obtained. Coastal Agro-ecosystem l Elephant foot yam when intercropped with banana, gave an additional net returns of Rs 15,992 without affecting the growth and yield of banana. l Crossing desi goats with improved buck (Beetal) increased number of kids by 50%, generating additional benefit: cost ratio 5 : 1. l Deep tillage at >45 cm depth increased groundnut pod yield 18% and decreased collar, stem and root rots 50, 45 and 80% respectively. IVLP/TAR PROGRAMME Through 70 IVLP/TAR programmes 1,450 interventions were assessed in 151 villages, covering 4,000 farmers’ fields spread in all five agro-ecosystems. It has brought in not only visibility of the impact of new technologies but has also built in farmer-scientist- extension linkages. Since seeing is believing, the TAR/IVLP programmes are having cascading effect on adoption of new technology/ interventions, which have brought economic benefits to the adopted farmers. Large-scale adoption of new technologies by non-targeted farmers in adopted villages is realization of success of the new technology. The adoption of tribal, small and marginal farmers has enabled to meet one of our major developmental objectives of bringing benefits of science and technology to disadvantaged groups. The integrated approach in various programmes besides generating gainful employment opportunities has also brought higher economic benefits. The scientists have also benefited from interaction with farmers and the refinement in about 50 technologies as a result of this interaction. This is a success and the realization that farmers have also major contribution to make. l Elephant foot yam intercropped with banana gave additional net returns of Rs 15,992. l Introduction of catle, rohu, mrigala in 20 : 70 : 10 ratio increased net returns from Rs 18,000 to Rs 37,440 in freshwater aquaculture.