, 2022) which might explain the weak effect (or absence of an effect in Palearctic migrants) of field size impact on bird populations. Due to this uncertainty, the potential associations between field size (i.e., configuration) and species richness or abundance during winter should be interpreted with greater cau- tion than those for composition. There are several caveats to our study. We visited each cell across the survey grid in the study region only once due to financial, logistic, and time constraints. Therefore, we could not account for variation in phenol- ogy, especially for Palearctic species that arrive at differ- ent times during the wintering months (see Appendix S1: Figure S1). Due to the single-visit surveys and the limited sample size for most species, we were unable to use dis- tance sampling methods or occupancy modeling that accounts for variation in detection probability. Our bird data consisted of 26 Palearctic migratory species that were observed primarily around the agriculture and open-ecosystems. They represent a small fraction of close to 470 migratory species that annually winter in India (BirdLife DataZone, 2024). Multi-season-multi-visit sur- veys in the future could greatly improve our work to address winter associations between grasslands and avian populations in different parts of the Indian subcontinent. Open ecosystems, especially in western (Gujarat), north- western (Rajasthan) India, and in Central Indian grass- lands, might increase the number of Palearctic species that can be included in future assessments. Due to high crop diversity during the winter season, small landholding size, and lack of validation data on individual crop types, we focused on a binary classifica- tion of annual winter (Rabi) crops and semi-perennial crops, particularly targeting cash crops such as sugar- cane. This approach is justified in our study region because of the very high proportion of sugarcane ECOLOGICAL APPLICATIONS 11 of 17 cultivated (Adhale et al., 2019; Dingre, 2023; Monfreda et al., 2008) (see Appendix S1: Figure S8). Fields with a long growing period of sugarcane differ strongly from the fields with annual crops with shorter growing periods and therefore have a lower cumulative primary produc- tivity (INDVI) compared with consistently high values for sugarcane. However, given the diversity and high sea- sonality of annual and semi-perennial crop types in other regions of the Indian subcontinent, we acknowledge that our INDVI thresholding method will need further valida- tion and replication to assess its efficacy in other agricul- tural systems. The wintering grounds of Palearctic migrants in agriculture–savanna mosaics of the Indian subcontinent remain largely unprotected and highly vulnerable to change despite their high value in the annual migration cycle for hundreds of species traveling in the Asian fly- ways.