 Poultry Seed Project: The twelve centres located at West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata; Bihar Agricultural University, Patna; Chhattisgarh Kamadhenu Viswa Vidyalaya, Durg; ICAR Research complex, Nagaland Regional Centre, Jharnapani; ICAR-National Organic Farming Research Institute, Gangtok; ICAR Research complex, Manipur Regional Centre, Imphal; Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Hosur, Tamil Nadu; ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Panaji, Goa; ICAR-Central Island Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair; ICAR-IVRI Regional Station, Mukteswar, Uttarakhand; Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Srinagar and ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam; have distributed improved birds in their respective regions/states during the year 2016-17. Desi chicken- crosses: In a diallele cross involving Ankleshwar (AN) and Nicobari (NC) and CARI Red (CR) breed, the cross of Nicobari (male line) and CARI Red (female line) was adjudged as the best cross combination for dual purpose i.e. egg and meat production, with annual egg production Guinea fowl-breaking seasonality in breeding behavior The Guinea fowl is a seasonal breeder and breeds in hot season (Apr-Sep) due to photoperiod effect, thus limiting its production and reproduction. In an effort to break the seasonality and to achieve round the year production from guinea fowl, different combinations of dietary protein and photoperiod were evaluated during winter (Oct – Feb) in Pearl guinea fowl. Birds (23) fed with 20% dietary protein and reared under18 hr photo-period produced 533 (HHEP 25%) eggs during Nov-Feb with a fertility of 53.5 and hatchability as 89%. This is for the first time that seasonality has been successfully broken in breeding behaviour of guinea fowls. NC X CR female birds LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 54 as 224 and body weight of 1427 g at 20 weeks of age. Quails: Japanese quail lines CARI Uttam, CARI Ujjawal, CARI Pearl, CARI Sweta, CARI Suneheri, CARI Brown, Cross line and Control line were conserved. Augmenting reproductive efficiency in ducks: Fertility and hatchability (TES and FES) improved significantly in Khaki Campbell (45-week old) when artificially inseminated with semen added with 10μg PGF2/ml. The physical parameters, viz. volume, spermatozoa concentration of semen collected with and without pre-ejaculatory fluid (PEF) were examined. Poor fertility (18.9%) was noticed when the semen collected without PEF was inseminated. Fish Captive breeding and seed production: Seed production technologies of Indian pompano (Trachinotus mookalee), pig-face bream (Lethrinus lentjan) and orange-spotted grouper (Epinephelus coioides) were s u c c e s s f u l l y developed.