 ARIC is the National Input Centre for the International Information System for Agricultural Science and Technology (AGRIS) and Current Agricultural Research Information System (CARIS) Projects of Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the largest bibliographical information system in the world. Selective Dissemina- tion of Information (SDI) services are available at ARIC through AGRIS-CD, CARIS-CD, CAB-CD, Food and Human Nutrition - CD of AGRIS and FAOSTAT Database. SDI and document delivery services were provided to 350 scientists and research scholars. ARIC brought out the biannual publication “Directory of Conferences, Semi- nars, Symposia, Workshops in Agriculture for the users of ICAR and SAU system and ICAR Telephone Directory - 2001. ARIC has developed digital publication of Vision 2020 document of ICAR. All the photographs available in Photo Unit of DIPA were also digitized by creating a database in MS-Access and scanning 8,500 photographs. This database on CD was made searchable by using Visual Basic at front end for the use of editors, scientists and other users for selecting the photographs. About 1,850 Research Projects of ICAR Institutes (RPFs) were also digitized in MS-Access and will be made avail- able on CD with searching facilities through visual basic at front end. Web page of DIPA was developed and connected to the ICAR Website. ICAR Library ICAR library has been renovated and was opened for readers by Dr R S Paroda, former DG, ICAR in August, 2001. The modern layout plan has been appreciated by the Senior Officers and outsiders. During this period, efforts were made to ex- tend information support exploiting databases of CABI (Centre for Agriculture and Bio-Sciences International). PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 225 The Hindi Library at the headquarters operated separately from the main library. The library added 250 Hindi books and subscribed to Hindi magazines and also issued 10.000 publications to readers. All electronic services like e-mail, Internet, Delnet, CD-ROM Service will be provided to the readers very soon. Publicity and Public Relations Unit The Publicity and Public Relations Unit plays a pivotal role in dissemination of information pertaining to agriculture and allied subjects, policy decisions and achieve- ments of the research set-up of the ICAR, i.e Central Institutes, National Bureaux, Project Directorates, National Research Centres and All-India Co-ordinated Re- search Projects, etc. to the print and electronic media. For effective communication of research findings among the farmers and public the PR Unit maintains an effec- tive liaison with the media persons. It is responsible for publicizing the achieve- ments of ICAR in the country and abroad. It also organizes press conferences/brief- ings addressed by the Union Agriculture Minister, Minister of State for Agricul- ture, DG (ICAR), DDG’s and Directors of various research institutes and projects.