 The solar energy is used as power source for the operation of sprayer unit and bullock power used for pulling the cart. It consists of solar photovoltaic (PV) modules, chemical tank, DC motor, spray boom with hollow cone nozzles and cart. All working components were fitted on a bullock cart for mobility in the cropped field for spraying. Due to high clearance it is useful for spraying tall field crops. This sprayer is being used for spraying of insecticides, pesticides and weedicides at fields of research stations of VNMKV, Parbhani. Ultra-low volume (ULV) spraying system: A ULV spraying system was developed. It is a tractor-mounted sprayer that was specifically designed for the control of migrant pests such as locusts, grasshoppers, and MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 88 armyworm at the spray volumes of 0.5–3.0 l/ha. The sprayer can produce the droplets in the range of 50– 100 μm. One nozzle was mounted on each side having a discharge rate of 0.2–0.6 l/min. The performance of the sprayer was evaluated using water-sensitive paper. Water sensitive papers (WSP) were used to collect the spray droplets at a height of 1.5 m (top surface), 1 m (middle surface) and 0.5 m (bottom surface) from the ground. Deposit scan open-source image analysis software (USDA affiliated) was used for them to measure the droplet characteristics from WSP. The results showed that the droplet range VMD varied from 195 to 450 μm at the pressure of 4 bar. The per cent coverage and deposits/cm2 were 9.06, 16.3 and 9.62%, and 293.2, 235.6, 42.5 deposits for bottoms middle and top surface. High pressure variable range sprayer: A high pressure variable range sprayer prototype was developed to control the hopper and adult locust. The developed system comprises the spray gun (15 m range), UV stabilised HDPE PVC tank having capacity of 1,000 l, diaphragm type pump, pressure regulator, automated spraying unit and braided flexible pipe. Automated spraying unit developed from DC motor (72 watt), speed controller driver (20A, 12 V DC), battery (42 Ah, 12 V) and regulator to control the direction of spray gun. The automated spraying unit was mounted is no need of ultra light sensor based movement of the arm. In the weeder, wrap around frame ensures upfront visibility to the operator. Mechanical linkages with hydraulic mechanism were used to reduce cost of the machine. The effective field capacity of the machine is 0.17 ha/h with 89% field efficiency in pomegranate orchard and 0.15 ha/h with 81% field efficiency in grape vineyard. The weeding efficiency on a telescopic frame having height of 5 m, fabricated by using the square steel pipe. The developed unit can be retrofitted on any tractor operated sprayer unit. The developed high pressure variable range sprayer prototype was tested at ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, at tractor rated engine rpm 1,500 and operating pressure of 30–40 kg/cm2.