 Indians have been using sesame and coconut oils since ages; but now with the branding and the innovative promotion of their health benefits, sesame oil (rich in vitamin E, Antioxidants and vitamin B) and coconut oil (helpful in Alzheimer’s disease) Dr Krishna Ella is the Chairman and Managing Director of Bharat Biotech, which gave India its indigenous COVID-19 vaccine. His areas of interest include veterinary vaccines, food processing and developing biotechnology infrastructure. 178 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series are being used in Europe. Branding can add value to produce of Indian farmers. On the agricultural front, India does not need much innovations in production but need acumen in marketing. He pointed out why is Kollam famous for better production than Nagpur despite the same soil types? Kollam has opted for allied agriculture, while the Nagpur is using the conventional method of growing a single crop. Thus, the wrong choice of agricultural practices leads to suffering of farmers. Simple idea can prove to be a milestone in the start-up journey and with a technological solution, the entrepreneurs and innovators can resolve many upcoming problems of the country. Dr Ella shared his journey as an entrepreneur — how he converted major problems of India into opportunities. At the time of start-up two major problems in India were diseases caused by water and mosquito. He had set-up a lab with a business plan to create a cheaper hepatitis vaccine as there was a heavy demand for it in India. The company supplied 35 million doses for the National Immunization Programme at Rs 10 per dose and supplied 350-400 million doses to more than 90 countries. After launching a cesium chloride-free Hepatitis-B vaccine, which is claimed to be the first in the world, Bharat Biotech received a grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation to develop vaccines against malaria and rotavirus in 2002. He then developed typhoid conjugate and rotavirus vaccines, both of which were pre-qualified by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2018— the rotavirus vaccine ‘Rotavac’, developed by Bharat Biotech is a five- drop vaccine, which is in line with his aim to develop vaccines with simple delivery mechanisms; vaccines “that can be given like polio drops”. Bharat Biotech was the first company to identify, purify and sequence Chikungunya during its 2006 epidemic in Kerala and Tamil Nadu and was also the foremost company in the world to predict, work and file the patent on the Zika vaccine; much before the US and World Health Organization (WHO) recognized the problem. Ninety per cent of Bharat Biotech’s vaccines are sold in “lower-middle-income countries” with affordable pricing. The path for developing a vaccine against Covid-19 and many others was not an easy task; it took around 20 years to develop Rotavac vaccine, which involved global scale public-private partnerships and a large- scale clinical trial,”.