: Evaluation of aqueous extracts of different oil palm products (mesocarp, empty fruit bunch fibre and decanter cake) and organic amendments (neem cake) proved the synergistic effect of neem cake and mesocarp on the mycelial growth of Trichoderma longibrachiatum with mean growth increment of 28% and 33.12% as compared to potato dextrose agar. Neem cake followed by mesocarp was identified as suitable substrates among 10 different agro-based wastes for mass multiplication and delivery of Trichoderma within the oil palm cropping system. This farmer friendly mass production technology was standardised across different A F K B G L C H M D I N E J O Identification of viruses in cucurbit vegetables Detection of piper yellow mottle virus by recombinase polymerase amplification-lateral flow assay (RPA-LFA). PC: Infected plant, HC: healthy plant, WC: water control The pure culture of bacterial isolates B-1 to B-16 B13 B9 B5 B1 B14 B10 B6 B2 B16 B11 B7 B3 Control B12 B8 B4 PC Control Test HC WC CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 89 seasons, Trichoderma strains and doses. Ganoderma induced basal stem rot: Molecular PCR detection of Ganoderma was developed and standardised using Ganoderma specific primers. Screening of five Ganoderma specific primers was done for their specificity. Specificity of two primers was confirmed across different species of Ganoderma boninense, G. zonatum, G. casuarinicola, G. adspersum, G. lucidum. Primers proved to be nonspecific against other pathogens such as Lasiodeplodia theobromae, Curvularia lunata, Pleurotus, Helminthosporium, Colletotrichum and Trichoderma. Detection of piper yellow mosaic virus (PYMoV) infecting black pepper: The basic RPA method for the detection of piper yellow mottle virus in black pepper was standardized using TwistAmp DNA amplification kit. Different reaction conditions of the assay such as concentration of magnesium acetate, reaction incubation time and temperature were optimized. The RPA-lateral flow assay (LFA) method was standardized for the on-site detection of the piper yellow mottle virus. The sensitivity of the assay was compared with RPA and PCR. Validation of the assay was performed along with PCR using field samples of black pepper representing different varieties and regions. Mushroom: The pure cultures of 16 bacterial isolates B-1 to B-16 were isolated from button mushroom compost and casing on malt extract agar medium at 25±2°C. The antagonistic potentialities of bacterial isolates were tested against the growth of M. perniciosa using dual culture technique by keeping pathogen on both the sides. Perusal of the data revealed that all the tested bacterial isolates inhibited the growth of M. perniciosa over control. B-16 registered the highest growth inhibition of M. perniciosa (91.89%) followed by B-14 (77.78%) and B-7 (76.39%). B-2 and B-4 showed same level of growth inhibition of M. perniciosa (75%). Other isolates B-1, B-3, B-5, B-6, B-8 to 13 and B-15 showed 60.28 to 72.