 Activities • The research and extension activities of the institute continually supporting the farmers to increase the yield and quality of the litchi for sustainable production, Post-harvest management and value addition (commercialization of litchi beverages/products) of the litchi for enhancing shelf life of the produce and long distant transportation. • Annual growth in acreage of 3.8% and production by 6.4% has been registered after establishment of the NRCL. 3. Salient achievements • Technology on Rejuvenation of unproductive senile orchards developed. • Released three new litchi varieties: GandakiSampada, GandakiLalima, and GandakiYogita, and a new variety of longan, i.e. NRCL Longan-1. • Increase in non-traditional area of litchi. • Breaking off season barrier by litchi production in December month in South India. • NRCL Trichoderma T-01 control wilting of trees. • Developed value added products like Litchi squash, Litchi RTS, Dehydrated litchi pulp, Litchi wine, Litchi nut. • Assured flowering and fruiting through girdling of primary branches. • Improving fruit quality in litchi through bunch bagging. • Off season propagation in litchi. • Potting media for raising healthy litchi plants. • Post-cut dip solution to enhance nursery survival. 102 ICAR Institutes Profile 102 • Litchi-based cropping system models. • Integrated management of litchi fruit and shoot borer. • Integrated management of litchi mite. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Rejuvenation of unproductive trees • Assured flowering and fruiting through girdling of primary branches • Improving fruit quality in litchi through bunch bagging • Potting media for raising healthy litchi plants • Litchi-based cropping system models • High density planting system • Integrated management of litchi fruit and shoot borer • Integrated Management of Litchi Mite • NRCL Trichoderma- A biological fungicide • Production of wine from litchi fruits. Shahi Litchi Litchi plant 103 Horticultural Science 103 ICAR-National Research Centre for Orchids 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NRCO, Dikling Rd, Pakyong, Sikkim 737106 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Ram Pal (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.nrco@icar.gov.in: Phone Number: 03592-267030 2. Mandate and activities • Applied and strategic research on conservation, improvement and culture of orchids for enhancing productivity and utilisation. • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhancing and sustaining productivity of orchid. Activities • To collect, characterize, evaluate and utilize Orchid Germplasm. • To develop marketable varieties for cut flowers and pot plant production. • To develop/refine mass-propagation protocol for threatened medicinally and commercially important orchids. • To develop package of practices for cultivation of orchids. • To sustain the productivity and quality through management of biotic and abiotic stresses.