 cause egg mortality of rhizome weevil. Banana aphid [Pentalonia nigronervosa, Aphididae, Hemiptera] Damage symptoms: The nymphs and adults congregate under the outer base of the pseudostem. Aphids always accompanied by ants, which act as dispersing agents of nymph. Honey dew secretion appears on the plants which attracts the ants. The aphids suck the sap of the plant and reduce the growth and vigour. They also act as a vector of Banana Bunchy Top Virus (BBTV). Sustainable management: y Ensure clean cultivation. y Use healthy and pest free suckers to check the pest incidence. y Rogue out the affected plants. y Ratoon and inter crops should not be taken up. y Collect planting materials from healthy plants. y Before planting, spread lemon grass in the pit (if available). y Drench the petioles, furled leaves, whorls or young suckers with soapy water or insecticidal soap. y Destruction of weeds and alternate hosts. y Use yellow pan water trap/ sticky trap @ 4-5/acre. y Immersing flowers and foliage in hot water at 49°C for 10 minutes kills banana aphids. y Apply neem cake @ 1 kg in two equal splits at one and two months after planting. y Spray 2% neem oil garlic emulsion directing the spray on leaf axil and base of the plant. y Spray Verticillium lecanii to control aphid vectors @ 20 g or 5 ml /l at 25, 65 and 165 days after planting. Where ever synthetic chemical insecticides are applied 10 days gap should be given for bio-control. y Apply bio-control agents like Beauveria bassiana in the banana fields. y Endaphis fugitiva Gagné and Muratori, E. aphidimyza found to parasitize the banana aphid, Pentalonia nigronervosa Coquerel, the vector of banana bunchy top virus. y Introduction braconid wasps, Lysiphlebius testaceipes as parasitoid to parasitize the aphids. y Predators of banana aphids include lady bird beetles (Symnus nubilus, Pseudaspidimerus circumflexa, Micraspes crocea, Menochilus sexmaculatus), Lace wing (Chrysoperla sp.), Syrphids (Paragus serratus, Ascarina sp.) and a Hemerobid. Protect these natural enemies. Leaf and fruit scarring beetle [Basilepta subcostata (=Nodostoma viridipenni, N. subcostatum), Chrysomelidae, Coleoptera] Damage symptoms: Adult beetles feed on tender unfolded leaves and fruits. They remain hidden under unfolded leaves. The leaves of central whirl are worst affected with perforation. The beetles scratch epicarp of the tender fruits, blemish them by scarring the surface and render unmarketable. The scars on leaves as well as fruits turn brownish later. Sustainable management: y Follow clean cultivation and sanitation in the orchards. y Weed control, mainly grass in ditches. Weeding effectively reduced the infestation of N. viridipennis. y Exposing immature insects to environmental conditions, predators and parasites. y Bagging of immature bunch using net bags or Indian Horticulture 52 poly propylene bags with perforation preferably three weekly rounds.