 For example, NEEP-IE had additional effects on stunting [with cost-effectiveness ratios of US$595 per case of stunting averted, and US$516 per disability-adjusted life years (DALYs)averted (12)], and both NEEP-IE and AGRI interventions increased agricultural production, whereas Mama SASHA specifically increased production of orange-flesh sweet potatoes and nutrition knowledge. We consider how NSA interventions compare to other nutrition-specific interventions, beyond the 10 nutrition-specific interventions already recommended at scale (at a cost of US$125 to US$571 per life-year saved). Nutrition-specific women’s groups using a PLA approach (48) and SHG (49) have shown similar cost efficiency (US$62 to US$140 per participant), and similar magnitude of effects on dietary diversity of mothers [adjusted OR >5/10 food groups: 1.4 (48)], and children [mean difference: 0.17 food groups (49)]. Biofortification with nutrition education is less expensive, at US$65 and US$49 per beneficiary household in Mozambique and Uganda, respectively, and can double vitamin A intakes in children (50). A modeling study of food-based interventions showed that, in India, mass media campaigns and complemen- tary food processing interventions would be more cost effective than a household horticulture intervention (US$90 and US$41, compared with US$644 per life-year saved) (51). We conclude that NSA interventions have cost efficiency and effectiveness similar to those for nutrition-specific women’s group interventions but may be less cost effective at improving nutrition than other approaches, such as mass media campaigns, complementary food processing, and food fortification. How- ever, NSA can have added benefits of improved agricultural productivity, which nutrition-specific interventions would be less likely to achieve. In contrast, addition of agricultural com- ponents to nutrition and health education interventions, such as home-gardens (52) and community vegetable gardens (53), is prohibitively expensive, at ∼2014 US$918 per beneficiary in Bangladesh (52) and EUR 1525 per beneficiary household in Zimbabwe (53). Policy implications: scalability and affordability Before we conducted the trial, some components of the UPAVAN interventions were already being implemented at scale in several states in India. Participatory agriculture extension videos have been scaled up across several states in India, in collaboration with National and State Livelihood Missions and with the use of a women’s self-help group platform reaching ∼2 million smallholder farmers (54). Participatory nutrition-specific videos have been scaled up across 5 states in India, in collaboration with State Livelihood Missions, the National Health Mission, and other state-level institutions, reaching around half a million pregnant women and mothers of children aged 0–23 mo (55).