 The basic IT and non-IT infrastructure required to run various services will be maintained and managed by respective institutes i.e. ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi and ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad. yy A separate IT Unit will be created in ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi that will work directly under Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi, work in coordination with ADG (ICT). 23 ICT-Roadmap yy The IT Unit at ICAR- IASRI, New Delhi will have five scientists working at pay level 13 and above, 5 technical staff and one Assistant / UDC / LDC. yy Five ICT Functional Groups, which were proposed above, will be created in the IT Unit of ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. The Scientist working in each group will be the Leader of the group. The senior most group leader will the In- Charge of the IT Unit. The In-charge of IT Unit will report to Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi and will be reviewed by ADG (ICT). The ICT sub-groups under each Functional Group will be created as per the requirement as proposed in the ICT Roadmap and these sub-groups will work under the supervision of Group Leader of respective Functional Group. yy The Group Leader (GL) of each functional group will report to Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. ADG (ICT), ICAR will be the reviewing authority of these GLs of Functional Groups. Each sub groups will work under supervision of GL of respective Functional Group. yy The Group Leader of each Functional Group will be Scientists working at pay level 13 or above. yy An ICT Unit of ICAR, New Delhi will help in implementation, coordination and monitoring of IT services to the Council and its institutes. This unit will have a separate budget allocation through EFC. yy The IT / ICT and Non-IT infrastructural facilities located in ICAR- IASRI, New Delhi and ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad will be managed and maintained by outsourcing under supervision of a Principal / Senior Scientist who will Lead the Infrastructural Functional Group with the help of a team of scientists / technical identified by the Director of the respective institute. The budget provision for the same will be made in the EFC of ICT Unit. yy ICAR-IASRI and ICAR-NAARM will assist the ICT Unit of the Council for development, implementation, capacity building, management and monitoring various IT / ICT activities in different ICAR institutes. The contractual manpower for the same will be provided separately by ICT Unit. yy In order to ensure smooth functioning of the services, mainly emergency services, there is a need to provide limited financial and administrative power to Group Leaders of each Functional Group, which may be equivalent to the Project Leaders / Principal Investigators of the externally funded projects in the Council. yy If needed be, IT based short duration project may be identified and approved by the Steering Committee for its funding to different ICAR institutes by the ICT Unit for fulfilling the requirement of the Council.