 Mango processing waste One major factor leading to less profitability of mango processing industry is non-utilization of mango processing waste. During processing of mango for pulp, huge quantities of solid and liquid wastes are generated. Solid waste is comprised of mango peel, stones, and stalk, trimmings and fibrous materials obtained during preparation of raw material. This constitutes about 40- 50% of total fruits waste, of which 12-15% is peel, 5-10% is pulper waste and 15-20% is kernel. This waste could be used in two ways. Firstly, it is used either as such or after drying for animal feed; secondly it is converted into a higher valued product either by chemical treatment or by fermentation. Mango peel Mango peel is generally termed as total waste. If a factory is processing 5 tonnes of Totapuri mangoes per hour, say working for 8 hours a day, about 6 tonnes of peel would be available as waste. This waste is either used as cattle feed or is dumped in open areas where it adds to environmental pollution. Since 2-5% of total produce is processed, bulk of waste comes from table consumption of mango fruits which is difficult to collect as most of it is thrown in the garbage. Mango peel is a rich source of pectin and fibre. Pectin is an extremely versatile ingredient that is used to improve the quality of many food and pharmaceutical products. Pectin obtained from peel of mango cultivars cv. Chausa and Saheb Pasand has good jelly grade and the yield is also high, hence can be commercially exploited to extract pectin. Among the varieties used for fibre extraction, Chausa peel contained maximum fibre (5.4%) while it ranged between 3.0 to 3.6% in peel of other varieties. Mango peel is difficult to decompose because of its complex ligno-cellulosic composition. However, good quality compost could be prepared in July–August 2021 59 40 days by co-composting it with cow dung in 3:1 ratio. Mango peel can also be used for biogas production after adding urea in 20-30:1. The biogas yields obtained using mango waste as one of the substrate, was 0.6 m3/kg volatile solids added with methane generation of 52%. Mango peel could be used as a substrate for mushroom cultivation after supplementing it with rice straw. Mango peel as animal feed has poor nutritive value because of its low protein content. However, its protein value could be enhanced five folds by solid-state fermentation using Aspergillus niger. Citric acid and lactic acid are used widely in processing and pharmaceutical industries, and could be produced from mango peel using A. niger and Rhizopus oryzae. The peel could also be utilized for wine and vinegar production after partial precipitation of tannins to reduce the astringency. At ICAR-CISH, vinegar was produced from mango peel using immobilized cells of Acetobacter aceti. In fruit processing industries various enzymes such as cellulases, pectinases and amylases are invariably used for pulp liquefaction, juice clarification, etc.