 Semi- supervised learning methods aim to improve the performance of machine learning models by combining the benefits of supervised and unsupervised learning, making it a practical choice in scenarios where acquiring labelled data is a limiting factor. c. Unsupervised Learning: Unsupervised learning entails training with unlabelled data, enabling the model to operate without explicit guidance. It can be applied to predict "Human Behaviour," where a learner equipped with advanced visual and speech recognition capabilities observes numerous television shows to learn about human behaviour. For instance, the learner could develop a model capable of detecting when people are smiling, correlating facial patterns with spoken words like "what are you smiling about. d. Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement Learning is a form of machine learning that enables software agents and machines to autonomously ascertain optimal behaviour to enhance system performance. This approach is prominently employed in sophisticated machine learning domains, including applications like Autonomous Machinery Control (Agriculture robot), Irrigation Optimization etc. Figure 19: Basic Block Diagram of Machine learning6 6https://www.newtechdojo.com/list-machine-learning-algorithms/ Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report b. Semi-supervised learning: Semi-supervised learning is a machine learning paradigm that lies between supervised learning and unsupervised learning. In this approach, the model is trained on a dataset that contains both labelled and unlabelled examples. In semi-supervised learning, a portion of the training data is labelled, and the rest is unlabelled. The model is trained on both the labelled and unlabelled data to learn patterns and relationships. This can be especially useful when obtaining labelled data is expensive or time-consuming, as it allows the model to leverage the available labelled examples along with the potentially larger pool of unlabelled data. Semi- supervised learning methods aim to improve the performance of machine learning models by combining the benefits of supervised and unsupervised learning, making it a practical choice in scenarios where acquiring labelled data is a limiting factor. c. Unsupervised Learning: Unsupervised learning entails training with unlabelled data, enabling the model to operate without explicit guidance. It can be applied to predict "Human Behaviour," where a learner equipped with advanced visual and speech recognition capabilities observes numerous television shows to learn about human behaviour. For instance, the learner could develop a model capable of detecting when people are smiling, correlating facial patterns with spoken words like "what are you smiling about. d. Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement Learning is a form of machine learning that enables software agents and machines to autonomously ascertain optimal behaviour to enhance system performance.