 Keywords: nma-nma root, antiemetic Shri Tezenmo Nsunyu, Tseminyu, Kohima (Nagaland) 2662 Use of saslasar creeper for relief from joint and body pain Many people of Naya Talab, Hatai in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan are using this treatment for joint and body pain. The roots of saslasar creeper (Asparagus) are mainly used. The upper bark of the root is removed and kept under shade for drying. These dried roots are kept in under sun for complete drying. Dried roots are ground properly. This asparagus root powder is given to needy person for 7 days. This gives relief from joint pains. To get relief from body pains one teaspoonful asparagus root powder is given orally for 1 day before going to bed. Keywords: joint pain and body pain, asparagus root Shri Manji Nanoma Naya Talab, Hatai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 2710 Use of leaf paste of kajncha (Abrus precatorius) shrub to reduce filarial swelling (lymph angites) In this practice, leaf paste of kajncha (Abrus precatorius) is applied in swelled part due to filarial swelling (a smear of castor oil is made locally before the above said application). Farmers of Khurda district have been using this practice. Keywords: filarial swelling, kajncha, castor oil Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2693 Use of garlic nodes for curing joint pains Joint pain is common problem specially during older age. For curing joint pains, garlic nodes are given to the person suffering from joint pains once a day till the pain is relieved. This prescription is being used in hilly areas of Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: garlic node, joint pain Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Documentation and  Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2688 Use of methi seed for curing cough Cough is a common problem in winter season. Sometimes cough creates major problems, if not cured in time. Methi seeds are boiled in water, filtered and water extract is given to the ailing person twice a day for two days. This Agriculprescription is being commonly used by the farmers in Nagri area of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: methi seed, cough Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agriculprescription tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2689 Use of root juice of pokasunga (Blumea lacera) for curing blood dysentery About 5 ml fresh root juice of pokasunga (Blumea lacera) is given orally once a day in empty stomach with honey for controlling blood dysentery in children.