 Technologies for winter management of honey bees: Insulation of the bee colonies from the cold winds in high altitudes of Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand is very essential for preventing high mortality of brood and workers during winters. Low cost technology for winter packing and artificial diets for winter dearth feeding were developed by AICRP (Honey bees and Pollinators) center at SKUAST, Kashmir. Winter packing with thermocol and paddy straw provided good insulation to colonies protecting the brood and adult bees from cold winds without affecting the colony performance. Artificial diets prepared with jaggery + sugar + bengal gram flour @ 1:4:1 was found suitable for dearth period feeding during winter. The technology helped local beekeepers of Kashmir and avoiding huge economic burden on migration of their honey bee colonies outside the valley during the severe winters. Foraging behavior and floral rewards of bumble bee flora under mid-hill conditions of Himachal Pradesh: The quantification of the floral resources supporting indigenous bumble bee, Bombusha emorrohdalis at Nauni, District Solan of Himachal Pradesh by melisoplaynogical analysis indicated that 43 plant species belonging to 21 families were visited by bumble bees for nectar and/or pollen classified as major flora. Six plant species belonged to family Fabaceae followed by Solanaceae (5), Lamiaceae (5) and Asteraceae (4). Thirty three plant species of the major flora provides both nectar and pollen while seven species provide only pollen and three species were the exclusive source of nectar. Twenty two plant species under 13 families were less frequented by the bumble bees for the rewards and were classified as minor flora. Out of these 14 species provided pollen and nectar, 6 nectar and 2 pollen only. The ornamental crops were frequented more by bumble bees for the floral rewards followed by medicinal plants and vegetable crops. Annual herbs constituted important source of nectar and pollen for the bumble bees followed by trees, shrubs and climbers. HORTICULTURE Plant protection Fruit crops: Wilt disease, an emerging problem of mango was found severe in mango cultivation belt of Lucknow, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Amethi, Faizabad, Kanpur, Sitapur, Aligarh, Amroha and Bulandshahar. Apart from wilt, twig/branch drying/mortality due to Lesiodiplodia theobromae was also observed as another factor responsible for reduction in productivity in mango (Dashehari, Chausa and Mallika). There is 80% loss in canopy in one season. Trees exhibiting typical initial symptoms of Ceratocystis wilt/decline at different locations, when treated with Thiophanate methyl soil drench @ 50-150g/tree and aerial spray with propiconazole @ 0.1 % treatments at nine locations exhibited significant recovery of 1 out of 8 and 69 out of 71 treated trees affected with sudden wilt and decline, respectively.