 Under ARYA 930 different enterprise units related to mushroom production, processing and value-addition of Non Timber Forest Produce, processing and value-addition of lac, backyard poultry management, vermi-compost production, bee keeping, piggery, large cardamom production, fisheries, off- season vegetable production under walk-in tunnel, cardamom cultivation under protected condition, pine- apple production, Integrated farming systems, production of vegetable and fruit nursery, herbal jaggery making unit, commercial goat farming etc.were established during the year benefiting 2,467 rural youth in the selected districts. Skill training was given to 3,879 rural youth through 92 various training programmes pertaining to the enterprise units allotted to each ARYA centre. Eight exposure visits were arranged to 327 youth to different enterprise units being managed successfully as training and confidence building measure. knowledge and information, flow of technological inputs and effective crop management strategy. Pulses seed-hubs Under the project, Creation of Pulses Seed-hubs, seed hubs have been set-up at 97 KVKs for production of quality seeds of major pulse crops. During the year, 20,479.30 q seeds of pigeon pea, blackgram, greengram, New India Manthan-Sankalp Se Siddhi Farmer FIRST programme The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) initiative was launched by ICAR to move beyond production and productivity; to privilege the smallholder agriculture; and complex, diverse and risk prone realities of majority of the farmers Large cardamom production Senapati Skill training on mushroom cultivation- Nellore TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 116 through enhancing farmers-scientists interface. In this approach, the farmer will be in a centric role for research problem identification, prioritization, conduct of experiments and its management in farmers’ field conditions. It emphasizes on resource management, climate resilient agriculture, production management including storage, marketing, supply chains, value chains, innovation systems, information systems, etc. The Agricultural Extension Division of ICAR, New Delhi has funded 51 FFP (Farmer FIRST Programme) centres under ICAR and SAUs spread over 20 states of India. In addition, ICAR-NAARM, ICAR- NIAP, ICAR-IASRI and ICAR-DKMA are also involved in management, capacity building, impact assessment, content development and showcasing of technological interventions of this programme. During the year, the 51 centres have made several interventions at the field level in crop, horticulture, livestock, NRM, enterprise and Integrated Farming Family System (IFS) modules. Under crop module, about 151 number of technologies were demonstrated in which 16,597 of number of farm households were benefited.