 In summary, the share of storage out of production for minor millets in India is relatively low compared to major crops like rice and wheat, but it is an important aspect for ensuring food security and stability of prices for these nutritious grains. Need of safe storage Proper storage of millets is important to maintain their quality, nutritional value, and to prevent insect infestation and mould growth. Few basic things to be concentrated are: • Cleaning and drying: Millets should be cleaned and dried thoroughly before storage to remove any dirt, debris, or moisture. Any damaged or discoloured grains should be removed to avoid contamination. • Airtight containers: Millets should be stored in airtight containers made of food-grade material such as plastic, glass, or stainless steel to prevent moisture, insect infestation, and exposure to air. • Cool and dry place: Millets should be stored in a cool, dry place away from direct sunlight and heat sources such as stoves or ovens. The ideal storage temperature for millets is below 25°C, and the relative humidity should be less than 70%. • Pest control: Millets should be checked regularly for any signs of insect infestation or mould growth. Using natural pest control methods such as neem leaves, garlic, or bay leaves can also help in preventing insect infestation. • Shelf-life: The shelf-life of millets varies depending on the type and storage conditions. Generally, millets can be stored for up to 6-12 months if stored under proper conditions. It is recommended to consume millets within 3-6 months of storage for optimal quality and nutritional value. In India, there are several major storage locations for millets storage. Andhra Pradesh is a major producer of millets and having several storage locations across the state. Karnataka is also having a well- established storage site for millets in major locations like Bengaluru, Hubli, and Mysuru. Rajasthan is major producer of pearl millet and focussed on other millets storage. Maharashtra and Tamil Nadu also have storage facilities. In addition to these states, there are several other locations across India where millets are stored, including major ports such as Mumbai, Chennai, and Kolkata, where millets are imported and exported. Storage losses Varieties of biotic and abiotic factors affects the quality of millets kept for storage. Few of the important ones are as follows: • Moisture content: High moisture content in millets can lead to fungal growth, insect infestations, and other types of deterioration. Millets should be dried to an appropriate moisture level before storage (preferably <12%), and the moisture content should be monitored regularly during storage to prevent excessive moisture uptake. • Storage temperature: Millets should be stored at cool and dry conditions. The recommendations are as per rice and wheat storage.