 • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Hort Fact Sheet Black pepper at a glance T Janakiram For further details, please contact or write to: N R Nagaraja and V Aparna ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod, Kerala 671 124, India Mature pepper fruits, Black and white pepper Black pepper immature spikes Pepper plantation Pepper vine tied to the supporting tree Black pepper nursery two node cuttings Black pepper mature spikes Black pepper vine with immature spikes Coconut based pepper plantation Black pepper Black pepper is the world's most traded spice, and is called as king of spices. It’s one of the most common spices added to cuisines around the world. Commonly grown in India, Vietnam, Indonesia, Brazil, and Malaysia. Botanical name and chromosome number Piper nigrum; 2n=52 Family Piperaceae Origin Native to Malabar, a tropical region on the Western Coast of Southern India Economic part Dried berries (pepper corns) Uses Spice for seasoning Growth form Perennial climber Growth habit Perennial climbing vine Varieties and hybrids Over 75 cultivars of black pepper are being cultivated in India. Some of the popular local cultivars of Kerala are Karimumda, Aimpirian, Arakulan munda, Balankotta, Kalluvally, Kottanadan, Nayankodi, Vadakkan and Neelamumdi. Improved varieties from KAU are Panniyur-1 (Hybrid), Panniyur-2 (Clonal selection), Panniyur-3 (Hybrid), Panniyur-4 (Clonal selection), Panniyur-5 (OP), Panniyur-6 (Clonal selection), Panniyur-7 (OP); Improved varieties from IISR are Subhakara (Clonal selection), Sreekara (Clonal selection), Panchami (Clonal selection), Pournami (Clonal selection), IISR- Girimunda, PLD-2 (Clonal selection), IISR-Shakthi (OP), IISR-Thevam (Clonal selection), IISR-Malabar Excel (Hybrid); Improved variety from IIHR is Arka Coorg Excel (Clonal selection). Inflorescence type Catkin Pollen agents Water is a medium for pollen distribution Anthesis Takes place between 12.00 and 14.00 h on days usually when relative humidity of 60% is attained and at a temperature of 32°C, combined with bright sunshine. Stigma receptivity Stigma receptivity happens 1.8 days to 2.8 days after anther dehiscence. Stigma remains receptive from 4 to 6 days and up to 10 days. Climate and soil Grows successfully between 20° North and South latitudes, and from sea level up to 1500 m above MSL. Tolerates temperature between 10°C - 40°C.