 Limitations Our model introduced a series of innovations to incorporate empir­ ical data into the ABM modeling process along with decision-making theories. To assist in the models’ reproducibility and replicability, we also would like to discuss the remaining challenges for future research. First, due to the nature of raw data, we could not specify the agents’ underlying behavioral mechanisms based on their socio-environmental characteristics. Instead, we used theory to construct decision rules that fit the data. While our study demonstrates the usefulness of blending theory with empirical survey data to generate novel insights about farmer decision-making, the reuse of pre-conducted survey data limits the interpretation and validation of the results. Insight from interviews with agricultural decision makers could strengthen our understanding of the model results. Thus, the development of behavioral questionnaires that explicitly capture data on decision-making processes and validation of the results with the interviewees will be useful for future adaptations of the AG-ADAPT model. Second, we deliberately simplified the scenarios by introducing one rule at a time (i.e., the decision rule was homogeneous per scenario). We suspect that a more realistic scenario would require a mix of all rules. Still, it would then be difficult to decouple the influence of a particular decision-making formulation on the set of adopted strategies. Third, the initialization of agent adaptation strategies in the initial time steps of the model determines the simulation results over multiple and consecutive time steps. The formalization of social norms decision rule in our model, where the initialization of agent strategies in the initial time step is done randomly, introduces some path dependency among the agent behavior and influences the overall results of the social norms experiment. Fourth, we do not explicitly model diffusion of beliefs, norms and information within networks in the social norms experiment. The deci­ sion to exclude information flow dynamics in the model within members of the village was explicitly taken to reduce the analytical complexity of the model and maintain tractability. Last, we assumed that the surveyed farmers in a village would be influenced by each other’s adaptation decisions. However, given that not all the surveyed households may have had a social interaction in real life, our assumptions may not be realistic. Future studies could further expand our model by introducing network dynamics and information flow among the agents. 7. Conclusion Farmer decision-making processes are often dynamic and change with time and context (Streletskaya et al., 2020). As we highlighted at the beginning of this paper, most agricultural climate adaptation research, which informs agricultural policies, assume farmers to be rational actors or utility maximizers (Davidson, 2016).