8358 35  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT The spread of the plant is the indicator of its health and establishment state, as can be seen from Table5, that the mean spread is about 5 feet which can be classified as satisfactory growth. The maximum value of the spread of the plants is 14 feet with an exception of very thin growth of plants. The data were analysed keeping in view the two sets of available degree of slopes as treatment, i.e. very high >50% to moderate 30_40% along with the combination of the terraced and non- terraced areas in the orchard (Table 5). T1 represents the plantation on high slope with terraced land, T2 the plantation on moderate slope with terraced land, T3,high slope, non-terraced; and T4, moderate slope non- terraced. The transect were laid out at different slopes. The analysis of variance indicated the significant effect of slope on the spread and height of apple plants. It can be inferred that at high slopes the farmer's intervention of developing small terraces is useful in getting better performance. However, the plantation on the farmer's designed contours is only beneficial in the moderate slopes and with the increase in the slope of land, i.e. more than 50%. The plant height as well as the spread of the apple plant were generally more in the terraced and high slopes, followed by the terracing at the moderate slope. In addition, the moderate slope contouring also proved beneficial, but not at higher slopes. This may be because the intervention of the farmer in developing small terracing has given the medium to hold the tree roots at the initial stage, which gave boost in its establishment. The soil characteristics such as pH did not differ in the different systems, because the studied site is being treated by the farmer under the SALT for the last 5 years only. However, organic carbon, available nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, bulk density and porosity decreased with the increase in soil depth. The soil-moisture retention was more in the top layer of the soil, which supplemented the adoption concept of the SALT farmers of the area. There was reduction in the species diversity with the introduction of the orchard species and management of the land by the farmer by uprooting the unwanted vegetation. This improved the under-storey grass cover and gave additional income through the fruit plants. The species ecological sucession brought out change in the carrying capacity of the vegetation, because only the dominant species survived; and with the removal of the shrub components the associated species automatically vanished. Through this indigenous technology the farmer developed a sustainable land management system in terms of ecological biodiversity, soil health and economical enhancement by intervention of the horticultural crops in the area and maintaining the indigenous species on the same piece of land.