 • An exposure visit was organised under which 27 beneficiary farmers from Jagannathpur (Block-Balianta) and Dorbanga (Block-Balipatna) village participated and visited 3 ICAR institutes like ICAR-NRRI, Cuttack; ICAR-CHES and ICAR- CTCRI regional centre, Bhubaneswar on 31 August 2018. • A field day on carp seed rearing was organised at Giringo village. Fig. 2. Enhancing Farmers-Scientist Interface: Workshop on farmes’ feedback Indian Farming November 2020 33 It was attended by 12 farmers from nearby villages. Sri Gadadhar Pradhan who has shifted from carp culture to carp seed rearing, following ICAR-CIFA package of practices, shared his experiences. The farmers learnt about the fish seed rearing and also appreciated the profit from fish seed rearing venture. Significant Achievements • TARM 1 cultivar of a green gram was demonstrated which gave an average yield of 6.75 q/ha in demonstration plots (B:C ratio was 1.82). The yield of TARM 1 is 66% higher than the local check. • Landless women farmers were trained to rear backyard poultry Kaveri and Vanaraja strain (Fig. 3). Male birds weigh upto 3-3.5 kg and female birds lay 20-25 eggs per month after 7 month of rearing. Eggs are of average weight of 55 gm. By rearing dual purpose breed, the beneficiaries got 1.79 times higher income as compared to the local breed. • Composite fish farming gave an average yield of 3.0 t/ha. Higher yield led to enhanced per capita consumption of fish by the farmers. Application of lime, soil and water testing and supplementary feeding at regular interval and demonstration of advanced technologies controlled fish mortality and thereby minimized loss. • Photo insensitive variety of cauliflower var. Fujiyama gave an average yield of 15 t/ha in the demonstration plots. Farmers were benefitted financially as it was harvested in offseason at a higher price. • Minor carp was stocked in November in the backyard ponds. Minor carp (Puntius gonionotus) provide intermittent income to the farmers, species diversification; maximize biomass production and thereby giving consumers a better choice. • Bush type French bean Falguni variety was demonstrated due to its strong and bushy nature. An average yield of 8 t/ha of green pods in 75-85 days was obtained (B:C ratio was 1.91). 1Principal Scientist, 2Senior Research Fellow, *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bhuthnath@gmail.com ‘FISHTOONS’ Fig. 3. Backyard poultry: Income enhancement for small farmers Indian Farming November 2020 34 T HE Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) estimated the world trade of ornamental fish around US $ 20 billion. The top exporting country is Singapore followed by Hong Kong, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Sri Lanka, Taiwan, Indonesia and India. The largest importer of ornamental fish is the USA followed by Europe and Japan. The emerging markets are China, South Africa and gulf countries.