 In 2018, Kurunji flowers have abundantly grown in Mandalpatti hills of Kodagu district in Karnataka after a gap of 12 years, adding a magnificent charm to this place. The flowering were first spotted around early August, 2018 which continued till end of September, 2018. In the month of September and October, 2022, there has been a significant increase in number of trekkers and visitors who are rushing towards Chikkmagaluru to enjoy the beauty of this unique flower. The carpet of blue flowers in Mullayanagiri, Kote Betta and Kumara Parvatha also attracted many travellers, nature lovers and botanists. Conservation status The Shola grasslands of Western Ghats were known to enjoy the wealthy diversity of Strobilanthes species. The discoveries of recent species like Strobilanthes kannani, Strobilanthes jomyi, Strobilanthes sainthomiana, Strobilanthes malabarica, Strobilanthes agasthyamalana adding to the list year by year indicate the actual diversity of Kurunji in Western Ghats is far beyond our assumptions. However, due to increasing anthropogenic activities, these have been transformed into Tea and Coffee plantations. Exotic species such as eucalyptus, acacia, pines and wattle in these plantations are continuously encroaching on the original habitat of this endemic plant species. The Neelakurunji is further threatened by increasing tourism, land encroachment for plantation, tourism as well as road network and disposal of plastic garbage in these sites resulting in reduced occurrence of mass blooming of Neelakurunji. According to earlier reports, mass blooming of Neelakurunji attracted a large number of in habitats of Western Ghats, jungle fowl to feed on the large quantity of seeds produced. Some species of Strobilanthes are View of flowering of Neelakurinji (Strobilanthes sessilis) in Mullayangiri in Western Ghats of Karnataka Table 1. Recent blooms of Neelakurinji in India Blooming year Scientific name Habitat 2017 Strobilanthes callosa Sandur Hills in Bellary, Karnataka. 2018 Strobilanthes kunthiana Eravikulam National Park in Munnar, Kerala 2019 Strobilanthes kunthiana Garhwal region in Uttarkashi, Uttarakhand 2021 Strobilanthes sessilis var. sessiloides Mandalpatti Hills in Kodagu, Karnataka 2022 Strobilanthes sessilis Mullayyanagiri, Seethalayyanagiri in Chikkamagaluru, Karnataka already being lost due to combination of various factors and 22 Strobilanthes species are under threatened according to the Red List of 2012. To prevent such a phenomenal paradise from becoming extinct in near future, an impactive step has been taken to conserve Neelakurinji shrubs by the Government of Kerala by establishing Kurinjimala Sanctuary in 2006, which spreads across 32 km. It is situated in the Vattavada and Kottakamboor villages near Munnar. They also run campaigns and events to raise awareness about Neelkurunji conservation. “A single flower doesn’t matter, but taken together, in a wide area, it’s a romantic scene,” says G.