 As shifting cultivation is an indispensible part of 382 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Mizo culture, it is difficult to eradicate jhum practices completely, even though implementation of different subsidized schemes for promotion of commercial crop production on Government side. Extensive burning of live vegetation during March-April checks the initial weed growth during the early crop stages in jhum fields. Thus the main crop gets additional time, experiencing less competition for available resources (light, water and nutrient) from the suppressed weed regeneration process during critical crop-weed competition period. This comparative advantage often secures the minimum crop yield, as it rarely satisfy the jhum farmers. However, majority of the farmers are still unwilling to invest for any external pesticides application for cultivating the potential low yielder landraces of different crop species in their jhum fields. This steely behaviour often resulted in profuse weed infestation, high incidence percentage of pest and diseases at later crop growth stages due to high relative humidity percentage and yield loss during kharif season (biotic stress factor). Lacking of community based rainwater water harvesting and supportive irrigation facility for agriculture: Roof water harvesting is one of the most common facilities to ensure the daily water supply for the mizo household usage during kharif season. For the agriculture sector, ample amount of rainwater is commonly available during the wet months (April – October). There is very limited infrastructure for large scale water harvesting for agriculture in Mizoram. Selected dams engineered the conjunctive use of water for hydropower generation sector (Table 3). However, the collective area of influence is still limited with restricted scope of the stored water usage for fishery and agriculture sector, other than solving problem for house hold scarcity during winter. Therefore, water scarcity is often intensified in agriculture sector during the post monsoon and winter months (November –February). There is no scope for ground water exploitation in the hill tracts of Mizoram. Additionally, limited availability of the agricultural water storage as well as supportive irrigation infrastructure facility (pumping/ distribution pipes/canals, sprinkler, drip irrigation network etc) is one of the major hurdle to increase the net cropping intensity of Mizoram; leaving the extended rabi fallow after rice as the major problem that dominates over the extensive hill tracts and existed limited plain areas Mizoram (Kolasib, Chemphai, Sercchip district) of Mizoram. Hence, standing crop and established orchards are experiencing acute water deficit stress during the postmonsoon and winter months that often limits their average productivity also.