 The accession is unique in being moderately thorny, bearing very tasty, brown shining crispy fruits with thin epicarp, and comparatively thicker mesocarp, besides not forming cavum upon maturity. These characteristics bring it closer to Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube and thus can be suggested to be its possible progenitor. This accession has a potential to be exploited as a minor fruit crop in the region. Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube is thorn less cultivated subspecies locally called as ‘Bre’ resembling ‘Ber’ referring to Ziziphus mauritiana in other parts of the country. Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube is now rare in Kashmir and we have collected its two accessions only, one from Pampore area at an elevation of 1630 m and another from Shopian area at an elevation of 1930 m. Three very huge plants believed to be around a century old were observed in Pampore area with fruits maturing in the month of September while in Raqhama village of Shopian almost a dozen comparatively smaller trees were found to be growing. The fruits here mature late in October. Mature fresh fruits of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube are brownish, tasty, and narrowly ovoid, on an average 2.7 in length, 2.4 in breadth, fruit weight 6.473 g and stone weight of 0.238 g, stone acute at both ends, 2-loculed, 1or 2-seeded, seeds orbicular and compressed. Utilization The fruits are eaten fresh or in dried form. Various functional compounds such as vitamin C, amino acids, triterpene acids, polysaccharides, and polyphenols have been reported in the Ziziphus. In Unani system of medicine, it is known as ‘Unnab’ and its sherbet is believed to have a sort of ‘cooling effect’ on the body. Traditionally, species belonging to the genus Ziziphus have been largely used as medicine to treat many diseases and body disorders, such as chest and respiratory problems, scabies, pimples and the inflammation of mouth and gums. It is reported to be a good blood purifier and stomachic. The fruits are useful in the treatment of asthma, bronchitis, diabetes, eye diseases, inflammatory skin conditions, liver disorders, ulcers and wounds. In Uri areas of Kashmir, Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube is locally called as ‘Singli’ and Variation in fruit shape, size and color (a - d), stone/seed shape and size (f) in Ziziphus jujube subsp. spinosa. Fruits of unique accession of Ziziphus jujube subsp. spinosa collected by authors (d) comparable to the fruits of Ziziphus jujube subsp. jujube (e). a d b e c f May–June 2021 25 a decoction prepared by grinding its seeds in salty water is taken orally two spoons thrice a day for two months as a cure for jaundice. In Kashmir, the leaves especially of Ziziphus jujuba ssp. jujube are added to boiling water used for taking bath to cure various skin ailments. The foliage is used as fodder for livestock at many places. Need for conservation Four or five decades back Ziziphus jujuba ssp.