 testudineus are solitary and aggressive, and they can grow up to 50–60 g in a year. Maturity occurs at the age of 1 year when the fish reach a size of 10–12 cm in total length. During the breeding season, A. testudineus exhibits more sexual dimorphism. So, during the monsoon season, around 20 mature brooders were taken from the brood- stock pond and kept separately in cement cisterns. Brood fishes were selected based on their secondary sexual character. In the breeding season, females have a ventrally located genital papilla with a bulging abdomen and mature females ooze out ova even at gentle pressure. Mature males are slanderous, and white milt oozes out upon gently pressing. Healthy brooders were fed daily with a supplementary pelleted feed (35% protein) @5% of the total biomass. After 15 days of brooder conditioning in August, a semi-artificial induce breeding of A. testudineus was attempted. A. testudineus brooders were injected (0.1 ml per fish) using an intramuscular injection of Ova-FH hormone which consist of synthetic gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogue (SGnRH), domperidone and glycerol (Biostadt India Ltd, Aurangabad, Maharashtra, India) and released again into the earthen brood-stock pond’s deeper portion. The average male and female injected were 18.50±0.29 g and 19.5±0.45 g respectively. Feeding and water level were maintained throughout the period. Both unfertilized eggs and fertilized eggs were floating on the water’s top, which is unusual for most freshwater fish species. The newly hatched larvae of A. testudineus were seen after 24–26 hours of hormone injection. After 50 days water was drained out from the earthen pond. The fry of climbing perch was first collected by fined meshed net and subsequently by hand pick. More than 5000 numbers of Anabas fry (36.23±0.41 mm and 0.83±0.04 g) were collected from the breeding ground. Similar to the present observation first two months of rearing seeds were attained a size of 35 to 40 mm. Nursery management for A. testudineus in pond system Three-days-old seed from induced breeding tanks can also be raised in small earthen ponds (100 to 500 m2 surface area) as well as cement cistern. However, ponds have to be fertilized before hand with agricultural lime (CaCO3) subsequently with cattle manure/ poultry manure to ensure enough zooplankton production so the young ones in the nursery tanks have natural food. Pond probiotics may be used at a rate of 30 g/100 m2, along with equal molasses, for faster natural food production. In each Anabas testudines’ seed produced through semi-artificial breeding Indian Farming 28 July 2023 nursery, the water depth should be maintained between 1–1½ feet. After 6–7 days of preparation, 4000–5000 spawns per square meter of water area can be stocked. In 10 days, the spawn will grow to a length of 1.5 cm. After 10 days, the fish should be supplemented with a formulated feed containing 35% protein and natural plankton and tubifex worm.