 480 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income a. Increasing Production and Crop Productivity The productivity of all the cereals, pulses & oil seeds, spices and fruits and vegetable crops is below the average national productivity of the crops except a few like oilseeds and ginger, but the productivity of ginger is far below the regional productivity. In general, the crops grown in the state are performing below their potential. The productivity is the result of factors like seeds & planting materials, plant nutrients, irrigation and crop management etc. The major factors contributing to low yield are (i) low area under high yielding varieties (ii) availability of plant nutrients (iii) very less irrigated area (11% of total cultivated area) (iv)old and senile plantation of mandarin and large cardamom and (v) non adoption of scientific methods of cultivation and (vi) high incidence of disease and pests due to humid environment. b. Increasing area under high yielding varieties The seed replacement rate of high yielding varieties in the state is very low. The area under high yielding varieties of different crops is represented in graph below. ICAR- NOFRI and Department of Agriculture has identified improved and hybrids of various crops grown in the state. The recommended high yielding rice varieties are Pandhan-12, Pandhan-16, Pandhan-18, CAUR-1, CAU-R, PD-10/12/16/18/ and hybrid variety KRH-2. Millets- GPU-28 & MR-1; Maize-C1415; Soybean-PK1042/1029; Rajma-Varun Bomdila; Mustard-B9; Urd-PD-3; Rajma -Jwala & Varun; Soybean-VL Soya, 47/BB; Availability of seeds of improved/hybrid varieties is shown in graph below. The availability of seeds of improved and hybrid varieties are low and have greater scope for production of high yielding varieties in Sikkim involving the private seed companies. c. Plant protection technologies for organic farming Rich ferti plus 500g to 2 Kg/plant in fruit crops, 40-60 kg/ha in spice crops), Rich Top mix (10-15 acre for Citrus, Banana,Litchi and Apple) Vermi compost (3-5 kg per per fruit tree palnt) , Rich Combi Micronutrient (1-1.5 g/lt for all types of fruit crops) , Krishi Chuu (Soil reclamation), Cow dung Manure (2000-3000 kg for various spice crops) Rich HG I (for control of Red mite, leaf minor, red spider @ 1.5 ml/ltrof water for fruits crops), Rich HG II (for control of thrips, whitefly, aphids and leaf hopper @1.5 ml/ltr of water in fruits crops), Rich HG III (for tomato fruit borer, soybean looper, army worm, leaf eating caterpillars @1.5 ml/ ltr of water) Rich Agri Guard (for controlling disease like powdery mildew, late blight, leaf spot @ 2-3 ml/ltr of water foliar application and or drenching) Agro servo spray (for orange rejuvenation) Copper Oxy Chloride Pheromone traps ( 1200 No./ ha) d.