 The software facilitates comprehensive financial analysis by incorporating financial parameters essential for assessing the economic viability of hydrogen production through biomass pyrolysis [29]. This analysis investigates the potential for hydrogen production from biomass pyrolysis in Indian agriculture. Laboratory studies are a tool to evaluate the efficiency and effectiveness of various biomass pyrolysis methods [30]. Before these studies, various biomass materials including agricultural and forest wastes have been evaluated for suitability for pyrolysis. These tests provide a good idea about the composition and quality of the oil obtained. The study also examines the financial feasibility of developing a pricing model that includes fuel prices, electricity generation costs, and revenue from hydrogen sales [31]. Combining strategy, economics, and policy can effectively evaluate biomass pyrolysis as a sustainable and efficient means of hydrogen production and also take into account relevant environmental regulations for its recognition in India [32]. 3. Syngas Composition Temperature, residence time, and biomass quality are major factors that affect the composition of syngas. The synergy of these elements leads to the formation of compounds including H2, CH4, CO, and other hydrocarbons [33]. The type of biomass feedstock significantly affects the syngas, as different biomass materials exhibit different properties for syngas. Also, for special purposes such as fuel cells or liquid fuels, the ratio of carbon monoxide to hydrogen in the syngas needs to be adjusted [34]. Figure 2 shows the terminological framework employed in this investigation. Furthermore, the high kinetics of biomass pyrolysis make obtaining kinetic data at the molecular level challenging [35]. The addition of inorganic elements in biomass, particularly alkali and alkaline earth metals, promotes modifications and competition by adding catalytic effects that complicate the process [36]. Figure 2. Syngas Terminology. Syngas, which is largely made of CO and H2, has received significant consideration for long-term opportunity and sustainability-beneficial substitutes to internal combustion (IC) engines. 4. Hydrogen Production Quantifying hydrogen generation from biomass pyrolysis is crucial for assessing its effectiveness and efficiency as a technique of hydrogen production. Many fundamental parameters impact hydrogen production, and understanding these variables is critical for upgrading the process [37]. The analysis below provides a more in-depth look at this subject. 4.1 Temperature Temperature consideration is an essential factor for biowaste pyrolysis for hydrogen production. At high temperatures, degradation of complex organic molecules biomass eventually releases hydrogen gases [38]. Typically, this process has a working temperature of 400°C to 800°C. The ideal temperature depends on feedstock composition and reactor design.