 ●The Recruitment/Selection Committee for the recruitment of Chief Scientist-cum-Head for KVKs under NGOs shall be constituted by the concerned NGO. The Committee shall comprise of Head of the host organization as Chairperson; Zonal Project Director, Director of nearby ICAR institute, one Expert in the rank of Professor and above from technology backstopping Agricultural University to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; and one eminent agricultural expert to be nominated by Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) as Members. ●The Recruitment/Selection Committee for the recruitment of Staff other than Chief Scientist- cum-Head for KVKs under NGOs, shall be constituted by the concerned NGO. The Committee shall comprise of, the Head of the Organization as Chairperson; Zonal Project Director or his nominee, Representative of ICAR to be nominated by Director of nearby ICAR institute (should be Group A level officer and at least one level above the level in which the recruitment is to be made), and Two Experts in the relevant field to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor of nearby Agricultural University (should be Group A level Officer; if not available, then an Officer at least one level above the post in which the recruitment is to be made), as Members. ●No Member (including the Chairperson) should sit in the Selection Committee for the recruitment of KVK staff, if any of his/her relative appears for the interview. In such cases, the senior-most officer of the host organization should act as the Chairperson of the Selection Committee. Same rule will also be applicable for other members of the selection Committees. The Chairperson and all the members should compulsorily require in conducting and recording the proceedings of selection. ●Host organizations shall strictly adopt the pay structure sanctioned by ICAR for KVK staff without any change. ●Contractual services should be provided for assisting Scientists. KVKs should be allowed to hire retired personnel on contract basis against vacant posts for a period of maximum of six months or till the recruitment is made whichever is earlier with minimum in the pay band + Grade Pay of respective vacant post. (c) Career advancement ●The staff of AU-KVKs will get the promotional benefits as per the Rules of respective Agricultural Universities, subject to the condition that the upper ceiling of such promotional policy including the pay and eligibility criteria will be that applicable to similar posts in ICAR. ●If any NGO running a KVK does not have any duly approved promotion policy, Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme (MACPS) as implemented in ICAR and amended by ICAR and Government of India from time-to-time, could be adopted. In such cases, Zonal Project Director or his nominee has to be one of the Members in the DPC without whom the quorum will not be deemed as complete.