 In vitro micro-rhizome technology is useful for scaling up the production of disease-free seed rhizomes in ginger and turmeric. High-tech intensive cultivation of micro- rhizomes is possible in poly house. It is concluded that the micro-rhizome technology can effectively contribute in disease free microrhizome production and helps enhance yield of ginger and turmeric. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sharon Aravind (Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Marikunnu, Kozhikode, Kerala 673 012. *Corresponding author: sharonrvnd@gmail.com Post - harvest treatment machine for fruits and vegetables Post-harvest treatments increase the shelf-life of the perishables. The machine can provide pre-cooling, washing, warm water treatment, anti- microbial treatment, anti-browning and pulsed light treatment to the freshly harvested fruits and vegetables. It also has an inspection conveyor to sort out the deformed and damaged products. This is an ergonomically designed single operator machine of size 4.4 × 1.0 × 1.6 m (length × width × height) and made of stainless (SS 304) steel. The capacity of the machine depends on the products being handled at a linear belt speed of 5 m/min. There is a provision to vary the operating speed of the machine which permits the required variations in the treatment time of commodity as per the established protocols. Water forms the medium of treatment and stored in a tank of 500 l capacity. Water jets operating at varying pressure wash the commodities. Treated and washed commodities travel on a roller conveyor where rotation/rolling and linear motion ensure adequate exposure (up to 3 s) to pulsed xenon light treatment. Object-detection Model for Fruit Detection and Yield Estimation in Orchards A study was carried out to develop an intelligent image processing methodology to count mandarin oranges on the tree and to estimate the yield. The focus was on detecting the harvest-ready and unripe fruits through Faster-RCNN and YOLOv4 object detection models, replicating human vision through convolutional neural networks. The data collection has been performed using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV - DJI Phantom-4) from the mandarin orange orchards of Khamkheda village near Bhopal. The trees have been harvested manually, and the total yield per tree was measured to compare the performance of the developed system. The results indicated that the developed models work well in detecting both harvest-ready and unripe mandarin oranges. The mean average precision metric in detecting the mandarin oranges per tree by YOLOv4 and Faster RCNN is 80 and 76%, respectively. The manually counted and the YOLOv4 based detection resulted in a standard error (SE) of 12%.