 To this end, we provide evidence of the stability of the estimated parameters of interest, assuming exogenous controls (Oster, 2019). We also rely on and present results from a recently introduced approach to assess omitted variable bias, which allows for endogenous controls (Diegert, Masten, and Poirier, 2022). Finally, the robustness of the results is further checked by repeating the estimations of Eq. (3) for the data of different crops combined. Details on the robustness checks are provided below. 5. Results and discussion 5.1. Relation between marketing channel choices and the price farmers receive Estimation results for the relation between marketing channel choice and market prices is displayed in Table 4. The private-trader market channel is omitted in the pomegranate and baby-corn regression estimations presented in Columns 1 and 2 to avoid multi­ collinearity. Therefore, the private trader serves as the base category for buyers in these columns, and the results obtained are relative to this market channel. In our sample, okra and onions are not sold by private traders. Thus, to avoid multicollinearity, the pre-harvest contractors market channel is omitted in the regression estimations of these crops in Columns 3 and 4, respectively. Pre-harvest contractors are the buyers’ base characteristics for these columns, and the results obtained are relative to this market channel. For each crop, results indicate that channel choice is statistically significantly related to the market prices smallholders receive. For example, in Column 2, the coefficient for APMC mandi should be interpreted as “selling to APMC mandi instead of selling to private traders, which would increase the price received by baby-corn producers by 13.4%11”. Likewise, in Column 4, the coefficient for APMC mandi should be interpreted as “selling to APMC mandi, instead of selling to PHCs, would increase the price received by onion producers by 72.3%”. Selling okra to the APMC mandi yields a price 27.3% higher than at pre-harvest contractors, and selling pomegranate to the APMC mandi gives a price of 18.5% below the level received when selling to private traders. In the following, the analysis differentiates between high-value local crops (onion, baby corn, and okra, Columns 2–4) and the high- value export crop pomegranate (Column 1). Selling high-value local crops (Columns 2, 3, and 4) to pre-harvest contractors or private traders yields the lowest prices for farmers compared to all other marketing channels. In contrast, selling at the APMC mandi is the option associated with the highest prices.12 A first potential explanation for this observation is rooted in the relationships and the substantial social capital between small farmers and the APMC mandi buyers. Krishnamurthy (2020) noted that smallholders producing perishable commodities trust the APMC mandi because of the longstanding tradition and trust in government-backed organizations.