 This variety identified by ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, was given wide publicity through mass media, research journals, official web sites and by organising jackfruit diversity fairs. A model for commercialization in 2017 was created, after recognizing and honouring the farmer for conserving this variety as a custodian of Genetic Diversity. The farmer was also trained in propagation techniques for mass propagation of quality plants. Revenue generation is shared between the Licensor (jackfruit farmer) in such a way that 75% of the earning would go to the farmer and 25% would go to the Institute. He is currently producing the Siddu jackfruit plants and has distributed more than 25000 saplings to the farmers and earned a gross income of Rupees twenty-five lakhs, within two-year period because of the handholding by ICAR. Similarly, this participatory breeding research approach along with local farmers resulted in identification of another elite 12-year-old seedling jack tree from Shri Ravindra’s field in Tumkur district of Karnataka with attractive deep coppery red coloured flakes possessing high carotenoid content. In recent years, several entrepreneurs have come forward to commercialize jackfruit products. Hence, identification of such locally adapted types would increase the area and production considerably. Further, it provides farmers a chance of additional livelihood opportunity. 3.1.2. Tamarind for improving rural livelihood Tamarind is another important crop like jack and has adapted itself in India over several centuries. Tamarind is widely adaptable and suitable for marginal lands due to its large tap root system, which protects it from strong winds and cyclones. It is also considered to be a suitable tree for inter-planting with other commercial forest species. The tree starts bearing from 6-8 years and its productive life can last for 50-70 years, though the full life span is about 150 years. A healthy tree yields about 50-100 kg of fruits. The fruits are harvested in multiple pickings over an 8-10-week period between February and April. Tamarind pulp is the economic part but other by-products such as seed, shell, fiber are also useful for various purposes. Considering its nutritional and adaptive features, this hitherto neglected and underutilized crop needs attention to tackle malnutrition and climate change adaptation and for providing an important means of livelihood for rural India. In this context, a survey was undertaken in Tumkur district of Karnataka to characterize the local variability of tamarind for identifying superior trees based on morpho-physiological Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 18 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR analysis of pod and tree characters. During this survey, an accession named L1 was identified in Nandihalli village growing in field of Shri Laxmannappa to be superior in several yield and quality traits.