 During the last one year 19,557 students were trained under RAWE through Council’s support. An online portal for data recording under the Student READY programme has been developed. Experiential learning modules: During the year, six new experiential learning modules were provided to six Agricultural Universities, viz. BASU Patna; UAS, Bengaluru; DBSKKV, Dapoli; CAU, Imphal; MPUAT, Udaipur and RLBCAU, Jhansi and a total number of 490 modules across SAUs. The new modules were selected under various themes, viz. Breeding and culture of freshwater ornamental fishes, Mass production of bio-agents, Forestry, Natural farming, Spices processing, and Commercial horticulture. An online portal for monitoring the Experiential Learning Programme was made operative and several meetings of the stakeholders were conducted for data recording on the portal. Students working in the field and interacting with farmers under RAWE component of the Student READY Programme Exhibition of apparels by Apparel Manufacturing module students under Experiential component of Student READY Programme Preparation of value added products under Experiential component of Student READY Programme Human Resource Development Teaching, Research and Capacity Building Niche area of excellence: The NAE programmes are being supported in the important focussed areas, viz. development of blast resistant varieties in rice, assessment of heavy metals in crop plants, development of nano-material for tissue regeneration in animals, etc. for strengthening research in specific strategic areas in agricultural education, research, and capacity building. Significant achievements: yy Under the ongoing program on tissue regeneration in animals at IVRI, in vitro trans-differentiation of canine bone marrow derived mesenchymal stem cells into neurons was achieved. yy Stem cells laden with bone nano-scaffold (PCL+HA+MWCNT) significantly accelerated bone healing in critical bone defect in animal model than conventional treatment. yy Stem cells laden with neural nano-scaffold (PCL+ Collagen +MWCNT+ Br) accelerated neuro- regeneration in crushed nerve injury in animal model. yy Stem cell laden nano-scaffold is also being standardized for regeneration of cartilage in vitro. yy Development of blast resistance high yielding short Human Resource Development icar annual report 2022-23 149 Pre-defect D-0 D-30 D-60 D-90 pursuing degree, utilizing the facilities developed under NAE programmes. These centres published 6 papers in peer reviewed journals, including papers in journals assigned NAAS rating of 7 and above. Three technologies/ methodologies have been developed and are under process for commercialization. Summer/winter schools and short courses: During the year, 72 summer winter schools/short courses comprising 41 summer/winter schools of 21 days, and 31 short courses for 10 days were organized at various ICAR institutes and SAUs.