66) Onion Price (Rs/Kg) 7.69 9.01 - 8.77 (4.19) (7.97) (7.44) Gross production (Kg) 308.99 171.26 - 196.44 (310.99) (219.17) (244.16) Source: Authors’ draft, based on IFPRI-India survey data. Note: The Indian rupee exchange rate was USD 1 = INR 65 at the time of the survey. Standard deviation in parentheses. A private trader market channel was not found for okra and onion crops. A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1315 in which Pie represents the price (in rupees per kilogram) a farmer i receives from selling their crop in location e. Choiceie is the set of key variables of interest, representing a vector of indicator variables that capture the farmer’s choice of market channel. Distanceie is a vector of variables representing distances to contractors and the distance to the nearest road, and Infoie is a vector of indicator variables representing farmers’ access to different information sources. To capture the potential complementarity effects of the choice of market channel and the distance to services, we interact with the Choiceie and Distanceie variables. Likewise, we interact Choiceie and Infoie to capture the potential complementarity effects of the choice of market channel and the information sources. γe represents a vector of location-fixed-effects, and ηe represents a month-fixed effects that capture location and month-of-the-year invariant characteristics. Finally, εie is an idiosyncratic error term. The standard errors are clustered at the location level. We estimate separate price regressions for each of the crops produced. To develop policy implications, we assess the determinants of farmers’ marketing channel choices by estimating the following linear probability model10: P(Yie|Xie, θe, γe) = α + ψXie + θe + γe + εi. (3) In Eq. (3), Yie represents a binary variable that equals 1 if farmer i sells their crop in location e in a specific market channel. Xie represents a vector of personal and farm-level characteristics, including access to credit, distance to a contractor, distance to the nearest road, age, gender, crop insurance, distance to output market, experience in farming, education of household head, main in­ formation source, gross production, secondary economic activity, own means of personal transport, availability of public trans­ portation in the village, social group, risk preferences, and source of seed; θe represents a vector of crop-fixed effects. The rest of the notations in Eq. (3) are the same as in Eq. (2). We estimate separate regressions for each market channel. Furthermore, to test the robustness of the results in Eq. (3), we ran regressions of the farmers’ choice of a market channel separating the two categories of crops – high-value vegetable crops and high-value fruit crops. We used STATA software to estimate the empirical model. Endogeneity concerns are addressed via robustness checks addressing potential bias from omitted variables.