 Basically the growth of protected cultivation technology in the country happened mainly due to government policies providing handsome subsidies under various schemes launched by government of India under MIDH (NHM), TM, NHB, RKVY, etc., but merely due to the technical beauty of the technology. Suitable crops and crop cycle High value-low volume crops are usually raised in polyhouses. Tomato, cherry tomato, capsicum, parthenocarpic cucumber, gherkins, zucchini, watermelon and muskmelon are the most widely grown vegetable crops under protected cultivation to augment higher return. Initially, most of the varieties suitable for protected cultivation were from private sector; however, at present, many varieties developed by public sector research organizations, such as Tomato: Pusa Tomato (Protected-1), Pusa Rakshit, Arka Meghali, Arka Saurav, Pant Poly House Tomato-1, Pant Poly House Tomato Hybrid-1; Cherry tomato: Punjab Red Cherry, Punjab Sona Cherry, Punjab Kesar Cherry, Pusa Cherry Tomato-1; Cucumber: Pant Parthenocarpic Cucumber-2 and 3, Him Palam Khira-1; Capsicum: Arka Gaurav, Arka Basant, etc. have shown promise for cultivation under protected environment. Recently, Pusa Seedless Cucumber-6 first extra-early variety has been developed which is a parthenocarpic, gynoecious cucumber and is suitable for protected conditions. Likewise, Swarna and Shonima have been developed by crossing a stable tetraploid line of watermelon KAU-CL-TETRA-1(4×) Advantages yy Year round production yy Overcoming adverse climate yy Multiple cropping yy Off season production yy High quality and healthy seedlings yy Clean products yy Non-traditional areas: high altitudes deserts yy Efficient management of crop pests yy Self-employment for unemployed educated youths yy Better prices for produce Indian Horticulture 40 with diploid males (2×) namely, CL-4 (red fleshed) and CL-5 (Yellow fleshed), respectively. Crop cycle under protected cultivation depends upon market demand and to a fairly good extent upon climatic conditions if crops are being taken under naturally ventilated polyhouses or partially controlled environment. As a result, timing of transplanting can be flexible. For instance, tomato can be transplanted from mid-September to first week of November and accordingly can be harvested till March to May under north Indian conditions. In north-western parts, tomato transplanted in mid-July can continue up to the end of April or mid-May next year depending upon the crop management and climatic conditions. However, the window of flexibility depends upon crops as well. Unlike tomato, Capsicum has relatively smaller window of transplanting period. It is preferable to transplant it from September to October; however, mid-September is the most ideal period of transplant in north India, while in north-west states, it can be transplanted in the first week of August and can continue up to end of April in the next year in the polyhouse.