 Catchments in this systems are prepared artificialy to induce the runoff. The inhabitants in Rajastan construct tankas on individual household basis near their settlement to mitigate their drinking water demands. Plantation of suitable species of trees (ber, pomegranate) around the structures in many places has helped in the environmental improvement (Rajasthan). Khan (1997) 5 Roof water harvesting following rains The harvesting of rainwater is done commonly by the farming community where roof water is collected in a dug out structure known as diggy in Kangra and Khatti in Hamirpur districts. These structures are excavated into hard rocks. In addition to the roof water surface, runoff is also collected into the dug out structure for multifarious uses (Lower hills of Himachal Pradesh). Anonymous (1999d) 301 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 6 Storage of grass in Toli In temperate zones bundles of dry grass from the ghasni (grassland) is carried by both men and women on their backs and is stored in toli which is pyramid shaped (Temerate zone on Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 7 Nutgrass management with cotton petals Cotton petals when spread to a thickness of 2 to 3 inches one month before the onset of rain controls nutgrass for 3 years because alkaloid in cotton petals aids destruction of nutgrass bulbs (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 8 Roof water harvesting In lower areas of Himachal Pradesh during rainyseason, roof water is collected in dug out structures which are known as diggi in Kangra district and khati in Hamirpur and Bilaspur districts. These structures are dug in hard rocks. Not only roof water but also surface water is collected in dug-out structures (Kangra, Hamirpur and Bilaspur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 9 Ground water detection To indicate sources of water for well drilling several tree species such as vikla (Maytenus emarginata), kanthar (Capparis sepiaria), bordi (Zizyphus mauritiana), harmo (Peganum harmala), vad (Ficus benghalensis), khijda (Prosopis cineraria) and rayan (Manilkara hexandra) are reportedly useful. The chances of finding water are believed to be even greater if the well hole is drilled near termite burrows or nests of sahudi (a wild animal found in fields in this area (Bhad, Khamba Amrely). Akbari (1993) 10 Nutgrass management with goat manure Applying goat manure to nutgrass affected fields controls nutgrass because goat manure acts as growth retardent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 11 Nutgrass management with garlic Growing garlic in nutgrass affected fields once in three years minimizes nutgrass growth as garlic exudes weedicide (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 302 UNCLASSFIED S. No.