 Frequency, date, time & 71L The Staff Research Council shall meet twice in a place of meeting calender year at the Headquarters of the Institute, on a date and time to be determined by the Chair- man of the Staff Research Council. Action on proceedings of 71M Action on the Proceedings of the Staff Research the SRC Council will be initiated immediately after the same are approved by the Chairman and circulated to all concerned. The Member-Secretary of the SRC will monitor the follow-up action, which will be re- ported at the next meeting of the SRC. 29 Establishment and maintenance of offices. Institutes etc. Recruitment Rules Funds of the Society Bankers of the Society Note (J) An external expert, who is a member of the SRC will be invited to make critical evalua- tion of the on-going project before it is considered by the SRC. An honorarium of Rs 200/- per day may be paid to the external expert for his evaluation. (ii) Before the new Project is considered by the SRC, it will be examined by the Research Co- ordination and Management Section/Unit of the Institute in respect of its importance of problems, its design and final requirements. Each Institute should constitute such a Sec- tion/Unit by re-adjustment of the existing staff. Such a Section/Unit will function un- der the charge of a Joint Director (Research)/ Director of the Institute. XIV. GENERAL 72. The Society shall establish and maintain its own office, Research Institutes and Laboratories, Regional and Sub-Stations etc. 73. Recruitment and appointment to the various posts in the Council shall be made in accordance with the Recruitment Rules framed or to be framed for the purpose in the Council in consultation with the Chairman or any other member of the ASRB to whom the Chairman has delegated his powers un- der Rule 25(c)(ii) and duly approved by the Governing Body and the President. 74. The funds of the Society shall consist of the follow- ing :- 1) Income from the Cess realised under the Ag- ricultural Produce Cess Act, 1940 (Act No. XXVII of 1940). 2) Lumpsum and recurring grants made by the Government of India. 3) Income from investments. 4) Income from other sources. 75. (i) the Bankers of the Society shall be the State Bank of India and its subsidiaries and/or Scheduled/Nationalised Banks. (ii) unless otherwise authorised by the President or the Director-General or the Secretary, no new account shall be opened. (iii) no amount shall be withdrawn from the So- 30 Auditors Advice in financial matters Financial Adviser of the Society Legal Adviser of the Society Annual Report Seal of the Society ciety's account in a Bank except by cheques signed and countersigned by such officers as may be duly empowered in this behalf by the President or the Director-General or the Secretary. 76.