 of India. The critical analysis of data generated through AICRP on Nematodes over the years revealed 21.3% crop losses amounting to Rs. 102039 million annually in India due to plant parasitic nematodes which included Rs. 50224 million in 19 horticultural crops and Rs. 51814 million in 11 field crops. Rice root knot nematode, Meloidogyne graminicola was found the potent upcoming nematode problem of rice with economic loss of about Rs. 23272.32 million. Citrus (Rs. 9828 million), banana (Rs. 9710 million) among fruit crops; and tomato (Rs. 6035 million), brinjal (Rs. 3499 million) and okra (Rs. 2480 million) among the vegetable crops suffered comparatively more losses (Walia et al. 2018). Region-specific ‘Package of Practices’ for nematode management in cereal, vegetable, horticultural, fibre, oilseed, pulses, spices and plantation crops have been released under AICRP on Nematodes (Walia and Chakrabarty 2018). 4.2. Nematode management by biopesticides ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru has become the lead centre of ICAR for developing eco-friendly technologies for sustainable management of nematode problems in horticultural crops viz., tomato, capsicum, cabbage, cauliflower, gerbera, carnation, tuberose, chillies, banana and papaya. IIHR developed six biopesticide technologies viz., Paecilomyces lilacinus 1% W. P., Trichoderma harzianum – 1% W.P, Pseudomonas fluorescens – 1% W.P., Trichoderma viride – 1.5% W.P, Verticillium chlamydosporium (Pochonia chlamydosporia) – 1% W.P, Arka – Organic plant growth enhancer and yield promoter. IIHR has been granted seven international patents and one Indian patent on bio-pesticide technologies. ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru has also produced a silicate-based formulation of a natural biocontrol agent, Pochonia chlamydosporia (NBAII PC55), a fungus species (Nagesh et al. 2019a). It is now widely accepted for managing the root-knot and cyst nematodes. 4.3. Insect management by entomopathogenic nematodes Entomopathogenic Nematodes (EPN) offer a sustainable management option for insects. Pusa NemaGel, a bio-pesticidal formulation based on heat tolerant indigenous insect- parasitic nematode species Steinernema abbasi with improved viability and shelf life of the nematode for the management of soil arthropods has also been developed. Novel Indian Agriculture after Independence 222 insecticidal WP formulations of Heterorhabditis indica for the biological control of white grubs and other soil insect pests have also been developed by ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru (Nagesh et al 2019b). ICAR- sugarcane Breeding Institute, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu have developed EPN formulations containing Heterorhabditis indica and Steinernema glaseri with considerable product shelf life. ICAR- IARI has also developed an apparatus for in vivo mass production of entomopathogenic nematode and an Indian patent has already been granted to it.