 The samples tested, were and still are considered by our lab as unknown samples which were found to contain Mon 531. I had always maintained and shall still do so that the results reflect concern only ifthe test-sample material and the test-seeds are authenticated by Dr Khadi as original BN-Bt seeds, something which he never ascertained. - - - - - - .... .... - - - - - - .... - - -- - - ,..... I became aware ofthe problem only after August/September/October 2009 when molecular tests conducted at CICR revealed that the BN-Bt seeds provided to farmers, contained Mon 531 event. I informed the DDG (CS) immediately verbally in August/September and later in written form in October 2009. Until August 2009, ClCR supported and promoted BN Bt and Bt-NHH 44. Ifthe ICAR would have instructed me to inform GEAC, I would have done so at any time after the problem surfaced. I requested the GEAC in a signed letter in May 2009 to approve Bt NHH 44 in compliance of the proceedings ofthe meeting held on 12th December 2008. 29. Wben you were aware of tbe problems, wby CICR submitted tbe application for registration of BN Bt during May 2009 to PPY & FR Autbority? Moreover, why did you sign tbe application? The Bt-testing lab at CICR assists all scientists in a routine manner. I only tested the few unknown samples provided by Dr Khadi in 2005 and once in 2008. That does not make me aware ofany problems. As mentioned before, the persons providing the samples only would know the nature ofthe problems after coming to know the results depending on the authenticity ofthe samples which only they can vouch for. They would have known the problem and should have taken remedial measures, which was certainly not my' responsibility. The two meetings held in 2008 under the chairmanship of the DOG (CS) discussed the concerns tissues and prepared the proceedings giving the go-ahead for BN-Bt promotion and commercialization. I was not aware ofanything more which was not discussed in the meetings and ofany other facts that were not known to the participants of the meetings including the DDG (CS), Director NRCPB, Dr B. M. Khadi, Dr Katageri, UAS Dharwad and concerned AOGs. The submission ofthe PPY & FR application was in compliance of the following: a) The meeting proceedings of21 st May 2008 and 12th Dec 2008 emphasized the need for PPY registration as important recommendation. b) A letter received from the Director NRCPB dated 9-1-2009 and c) The letter received from AOG (IPR), ICAR on 13th April 2009 linked the PPY FR application as mandatory requirement prior to commercialization and also stated that only CICR should submit the PPY & FR application. Therefore CICR forwarded the application on 7th May 2009 before commercialization to comply with all the stated requirements as per the instructions laid out in the meeting proceedings and the letter received from ADG (IPR).