5 lakh is observed from a female size of 35-80 g and in optimum condition, a hatching rate of 85-90% is obtained. Nauplii are free swimming and non-feeding and pass through six moults (N1 to N6) and stocked separately in larval rearing tanks @ 1 lakh larvae/ tonnes. ŠŠ The larvae further pass through 3 stages of protozoea, 3 stages of mysis, and then to post- larvae, which are reared in different larval rearing sections using microalgae like diatoms (Chaeoceros, Thalassiosira @ 40-130 thousand cells/ml) during protozoea and mysis stages. ŠŠ Live Artemia nauplii (4-5 nos/PL) and microencapsulated particulate diet is given during PL1- PL20 stages. During PL 15-20 stages it becomes ready for stocking in ponds. Overall survival levels of 70-80% are obtained till PL 5 stage in commercial hatcheries. ŠŠ The seed production technology is adopted only to a limited scale in certain hatcheries of coastal states. Compiled by: Dr K.K. Vijayan, Mr I.F. Biju and Dr T.N. Vinya More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai E-mail: director@ciba.res.in 56 Banana Shrimp Penaeus merguiensis (DeMan, 1988) ŠŠ Banana shrimp is widely distributed in the Indo-West Pacific region in both tropical and subtropical waters and forms an important fishery in South-East Asia and Australia. ŠŠ Females above 25 g and males above 20 g are used for the hatchery seed production. Gravid females are usually collected from the wild for seed production. Maturation can be induced in adult female by unilateral eyestalk ablation. ŠŠ Spawning takes place in the late night and the fertilised egg hatches out within 8-12 h after spawning depending upon the temperature with hatching rate 80 to 90%. ŠŠ The nauplii are free swimming and non-feeding larvae which are stocked in the larval rearing tank (LRT) @ 50,000 to 100,000/tonnes water metamorphoses to protozoea through six moults. ŠŠ The larvae pass through 3 stages of protozoea, 3 stages of mysis and then to post-larvae, which are reared in different larval rearing sections, provided with primarily with microalgae like diatoms @ 80,000-1,30,000 cell/ml during protozoea and mysis stages. ŠŠ During the commercial production cycle, an antibiotics-free protocol is to be followed with probiotics/bioremediation as part of the management tool. ŠŠ Live Artemia nauplii (4-5 nos/PL) and microencapsulated particulate diet is given during PL1 to PL12 stages. PL 5 larvae are transferred to PL nursery tanks and PL 15 stages onward the post-larvae become ready for stocking in ponds. ŠŠ A larval survival of 40-50% is achievable from Nauplius to PL 5 stage, following which up to PL 15, a survival of 75-85% can be achieved. ŠŠ The seed production technology is yet to be adopted at commercial level. Compiled by: Dr Shyne Anand, Dr A. Panigrahi and Mr R. Aravind More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai E-mail: director@ciba.res.