 Successful intercropping relies on the selection of crop, variety, sowing time, planting geometry, fertilizer management and other crop management practices. In southern India, sugarcane is usually rotated with rice. In north India, sugarcane is generally grown after harvest of cotton, maize, sorghum, paddy, toria, potato, pea, wheat etc. Monocropping increases build- up of diseases and degrades soil by diminishing the nutrients in soil over time which impacts soil health. Sugarcane crop production system should be followed with ratoons, other rotational crops and pulse intercrops (Table 3). Implementing crop rotations involving cereals, legumes, and green manure crops contributes to the equilibrium of soil microbe ecosystems. SUMMARY Optimal soil fertility is crucial for maximizing sugarcane yields and quality. Regular soil testing enables precise nutrient management, fostering sustainable production. Intercropping aids nutrient recycling and disease control, while crop rotations sustain soil health. Overall, efficient soil fertility management ensures profitable and sustainable sugarcane cultivation, benefiting both farmers and sugar mills. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: drgayatriverma@gmail.com Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 21 November 2023 Expanding cryobanking assisted carp broodstock management for quality seed production Santosh Kumar1*, Aditya Kumar1 and Rama Sankar Sah1 1ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Canal Ring Road, Telibagh, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 Quality seed is the most important input in the commercial freshwater aquaculture sector of the country and it is mostly supplied by hatcheries of the private and public sectors. With decades of hatchery-based carp culture and seed production intensification, a serious concern has emerged about seed quality, especially with the risks from inbreeding.