 Among different tree species, maximum CO2 evolution was observed under bamboo (3,345 mg CO2 m/hour) and lowest under jamun (1,409 mg CO2 m/hour). FODDER CROPS AND GRASSLAND MANAGEMENT Fodder Crop Improvement The genetic diversity in forage crops was enriched by 1,318 accessions of various forage crops. In lucerne, somatic embryos induced in the cotyledonary callus of 3 genotypes and 6 generated plantlets of LLC 3-34, 1 regenerated plantlet of LLC 3- 36 and 1 regenerated plantlet of LLC 3-40 were transferred to the field. Response of Fodder Crops to S Application The productivity of napier and seasonal legume-based cropping system increased by 38% for green fodder and 49% for dry matter with added sulphur level of 40 kg S/ha in all the 3 seasons over no sulphur (143.96 tonnes/ha green and 39.26 tonnes/ ha dry matter) in soil having low sulphur (8 ppm). Sulphur application in 2 continuous seasons, i.e. in the kharif to cowpea and in the rabi to berseem was sufficient for napier grown in summer season. Among sulphur source, single superphosphate proved superior to gypsum and elemental sulphur. The quality of napier + seasonal legume mixed fodder improved by increasing crude protein from 13 to 20% with decreasing N/S ratio from 27 to 16 with the application of sulphur. Agrihorticulture system associating amla (left) and ber (right) with wheat A SUCCESS STORY ADOPTION OF AGROFORESTRY This is a success story of a marginal farmer, Mr Tijju of village Karai, district Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh). He used to cultivate only kharif crops before the adoption of agroforestry. He was the target farmer of an extension programme initiated by the NRCAF, Jhansi, in 1993–94. Mr Tijju adopted agrihorticultu- ral system involving growing guava, amla, pomegranate and ber (Indian jujube) with crops namely groundnut, wheat and urdbean in 2.5 acres of land after obtaining training on management of fruit trees. Prior to the adoption of agroforestry, his annual income from agriculture produce was merely Rs 9,400/ha. The annual net income of this farmer in 5th year of agroforestry adoption raised to Rs 21,715/ha. In addition to higher returns, Mr Tijju obtained fuelwood, fodder, fruit and small timber from the same price of land for his domestic consumption. Earlier his wife used to walk 2–3 km in the search of fuelwood for cooking food. His standard of living improved considerably. Mr Tijju became role model for other villagers who are coming forward for the adoption of various agroforestry systems. l The genetic diversity in forage crops was enriched by 1,318 accessions of various forage crops. l Combined use of urea and FYM in 1 : 1 ratio produced maximum biomass yield of sorghum and cowpea. l The volatilization losses of ammonia could be reduced significantly by combined use of 25% urea-N + 50% FYM-N + biofertilizers.