 The Indian Agriculture after Independence 28 Portuguese travellers introduced many new crops to India. Agriculture became a key interest area during the British rule in India, that followed with the establishment of various institutions that later formed the base for modern agricultural research and education system in India. Development of improved crop cultivars through science-based selection approach was also initiated during the British rule. The present chapter systematically presents the details of cultivation of various crop species, and agricultural practices used during the pre-vedic and vedic era followed by rules of different dynasties and British in pre-independence India. 2. Crop husbandry in the pre-vedic era Agriculture began as early as 9000 BC in the Indian sub-continent and crops like wheat, barley and jujube were domesticated during that time. However, information on cultivation of crops as part of the agricultural system became more vivid during the ‘Indus Valley’ civilization popularly known as ‘Harappan civilization’ which flourished during 2300- 1600 BC in western Punjab and Sind province of the Indian subcontinent. The excavation by D.R. Sahni in AD 1921 at ‘Harappa’ and R.D. Banerjee in AD 1923 at ‘Mohenjo-daro’, discovered two major cities with rich cultural heritage. The ‘Harappan’ culture eventually spread to eastern Punjab, western Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, western Madhya Pradesh and Gujarat. The excavation revealed wheat and barley cultivation as part of their agricultural system. Among various species of wheat, grains of Triticum aestivum, T. compactum and T. spherococcum were recovered from the Mohenjo-daro site. Barley grains of Hordeum vulgare var. nudum and H. vulgare var. hexastichum were also found at Mohenjo-daro and Harappa, respectively. Both the crops being originated in central Asia, it was concluded that ‘Indus Valley’ civilization had contacts with the ‘Mesopotamian’ civilization. Among pulses, chickpea grains were recovered from the Harappan site; and sesame, amongst oilseeds, possibly introduced from Africa or Mesopotamia was also cultivated during Harappan civilization. The seeds of mustard, Brassica juncea were also recovered from Chanu-daro site indicating its cultivation in Sind. A small fragment of cotton cloth collected from Mohenjo-daro suggested that Indus Valley civilization was the earliest to spin and wove cotton fibres. The fibre quality depicted that those were similar to coarse Indian cotton species like Gossypium arboreum and G. herbaceum. Cotton cloths produced by the Harappans were used as the main export materials with Mesopotemian civilization in exchange of silver and woollen garments. Among fruits, evidence of availability of seeds and fruits suggested the cultivation of date, lotus, coconut, pomegranate, lemon and melons during Harappan civilization. Neolithic culture existed as early as 2300 BC. Six geographical places viz.