 In this regard, it has been suggested that thermodynamic approach of quantity-intensity (Q/I) relationship is highly suitable for explaining, characterizing and evaluating the K supplying capacity of soil (Beckett, 1964a,b; Wang and Scott, 2001). Different parameters deduced from this relationship like labile K (KL), specifically (KX) and non-specifically held K (K0), equilibrium activity ratio (ARe 0K)and po­ tential buffering capacity of K (PBCK) etc. may help in better under­ standing of the soil K supplying and replenishment capacity as affected by different management practices (Bilias and Barbayiannis, 2019; Jiang et al., 2019; Panda and Patra, 2018). Although, some researches have been directed towards the assessment of the impact of cropping, fertil­ ization and manuring on Q/I parameters (Das et al., 2019; Rupa et al., 2001, 2003; Samadi, 2012; Zhang et al., 2011), studies showing the impacts of comprehensive assessment of long term CA on Q/I parame­ ters are very scanty. Keeping this in purview, it is imperative to under­ stand K dynamics especially under CA practices where, crop residues are being retained for a longer period of time. The present study was con­ ducted with the hypothesis that long term residue retention/incorpo­ ration in soil as a part of CA practices may improve the K availability as well as K supplying capacity of soil as compared to CT practices. The objective was to evaluate the effect of 11 years of CA vis-`a-vis conven­ tional agriculture practices on quantity intensity isotherm and the related parameters in cereal-based systems under long term CA in an Alfisol. The information will help to highlight the role of CA practices on K fertility status in Alfisols of India and elsewhere which in turn would govern K supply to the crop for sustained crop growth, balanced nutri­ tion and soil health. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Field experimental design This research was conducted in the year 2021 in soils of an experi­ mental site established in the year 2009 at research farm of ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute (ICAR-CSSRI), Karnal, Haryana, India (29◦70′N, 76◦96′ E). The soil is loam in texture and belonged to the family of Typic Natrustalf (Soil survey staff, 2006). The initial charac­ teristics of this site is presented in Table 1 as obtained from Gathala et al. (2013). The area has semi-arid climate with average annual precipita­ tion of 650 mm out of which approximately 80% is received during the months of June to September. Daily minimum temperature is in the range of 0–4C in the month of January and maximum temperature of 41–44C is recorded during the month of June. Relative humidity is in the range of 50–90% throughout the year. The experiment initially had four cereal based scenarios with varying tillage practices, cropping system and residue management practices.