 While the fuel efficiency is 30% for the corresponding speed and pull, the load on the engine considerably less, CIFT, Cochin Prawn feed to be fed to a shrimp at different stages of growth, CIFT, Cochin The capacity to tap the pelagic and dimersal fishstocks has been increasing with improvements in the fuel-efficiency of craft and operation efficiency of gears. The Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) has made some outstanding innovations in harvest technology: high-opening mid-water trawl; pelagic trawl; lobster-and-crab traps; designing, fabrication and commercialization of fuel- efficient, low-cost, resource-specific wooden, FRP and aluminium fishing craft for different types of fishing operations. Fabrication of the 4-blade propeller as a fuel- efficient device is a trend-setter. Postharvest options — value addition, new products, processing-plant hygiene, quality control, longer shelf-life and improved transportation have transformed traditional fish processing in India into a blue-chip industry. Ready to be packed for export, snail meat, a non-marine product The CIFT is also developing technologies for the utilization of fish discards and discarded fish. In practice are: production of chitin or chitosan from crustacean waste for a variety of uses in pharmaceuticals, textile, cosmetic and paint industry and absorbable surgical sutures from fish gut. Chitosan CHITIN AND CHITOSAN. Chitin and Chitosan produced from prawn shell-waste have wide-ranging applications. The technology developed by the CIFT has been adopted by the industry. Chitin incorporated into poultry feed at a low level results in 10-12% weight gain. Chitosan, a very effective haemostatic chemical, is much used in dental and neuro-surgery, skin-grafting, wound-healing and as an artificial kidney membrane. It’s use in cosmetics is revolutionary. Surgical sutures SURGICAL SUTURES. Absorbent surgical sutures have been developed from gut collagen of fish by cross- and polymer-coating for eye and micro- surgery. They fulfil all clinical requirements and are particularly low-cost. Indigenously produced on large scale, the sutures are fast-substituting their imported counterparts. ~~ x . | SOFRE S u é 4 4 b . A s ’ : ~~ St a Indian mackerel, Rastrelliger kanagurta, our major scombroid fish Barracudas, a mid-water resource along south-east and south-west resource coasts PD ee Treadfin bream, the best resource Mud crab, Scilla serata at 100-200 m depth °F . all Catfish, a demersal finfish demanding conservation Lizard fish, a ground fish resource along the Indian shelf-waters 7 | 4s Mullets Mugil tade, found in the eastern coast of India, are being cultured in land-based ponds in the coastal areas NERS ~o Bull’s eye, a deep water bottom resource with vast potential Oil sardine, Sardinella longiceps, the predominant clupeid fish NATIONAL BUREAU.