 These leaves when placed in paddy fields, attract mashi insects, which will sit on them instead of paddy leaves. Long branches and leaves of aakda trees should be placed at distances of 15 feet in paddy fields. Around 25 to 30 branches are required in one bigha. The branches dry up in ten days. These aakda branches are changed thrice during which life span of mashi comes to an end (Anand, Gujarat). Rathod (1998) 65 Control of earhead bug in rice by using kerosene mixed rice Rice-bran (4–5 kg) is mixed with 1 litre of kerosene and sprayed in paddy field during early morning. The limitation of this method is that its bran cannot be used on a large scale (Pondicherry). Ganeshan (2000–2001a) 66 Stem borer control in paddy by use of branches of cashew nut Farmers in Tamil Nadu cut cashew tree branches and place it in field to prevent movement and boring action of stem- borer larvae in rice fields boring action of stem-borer larvae in rice fields (Tamil Nadu). Rath (1992) 67 Control of red leaf spot disease in paddy by seed treatment with pudina leaf extract Paddy seeds are soaked in 20% pudina leaves extracts (Mentha sativa) for 24 hours before sowing. This increases germination rate and vigour of seedlings (Vattalakuntu, Tamil Nadu). Kupusamy (2000) 68 Efficacy of the plant Polygonum hydropiper against brown planthopper of rice The tribal belt of Balasore and Mayurbhanj districts of Orissa represents a group of tribals known as Santhals who possess a rich knowledge of botanicals to be used for mangement of different pests. Water pepper (polygonul hydropiper) widely used by tribals for different pest control purposes.They name it as Gotkinamaru (cattle-tick- killer).It is commonly known as Kalatadi or Galpudi by the locals. Leaves of the plant is used for killing ticks on cattles and buffaloes, for catching fish from muddy water and for controlling insect pests of rice. This is a lowland weed, grown annualy in canal and river banks and swampy and marshy lands. Its leaf extract was found Mayabini (2002) 58 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference to exhibit insecticidal action.Results obtained from experiments showed that plant can prove itself a suitable tool for the management of brown plant cropper (Orissa). 69 Control of leaf - folder and grass hopper in rice by use of extract of Garadi leaf Garadi leaf (Cleistanthus collinus) extract is prepared by using 10 kg leaves soaked in 10 litres of water for 8 days. The supernatent is separated by decanting and is used at 10 % solution. Content of alcohol and chloroform (oduvin group) in leaves of garadi plants may be the acting agent(s) in inactivating/killing the leaf folder and grasshopper in rice (Seoni, Madhya Pradesh). Das et al. (1999) 70 Calotropis traps for control of aphid in rice Some had observed an aphid colony on the leaves of green gram akda (Calotropis gigantea), a wild plant that grows naturally on the common lands.