 Moreover, complete elimination of MDR-EAEC strains was observed by 5 days post treatment [p.t.] and was found to Basic and Strategic Research Production of cloned embryos from MSTN exon-1 knockout cell lines Blastocyst generated through electroporation with MSTN guide Embryos generated using single cell line Produced blastocysts Overview plan of Indigenous buffer develpment MSTN gene editing in buffalo icar annual report 2022-23 175 be at par with the antibiotic control (Meropenem). With regard to MDR-NTS infected and treated groups, highly significant reduction in MDR-NTS strains was observed when treated with encapsulated compounds after 6 days p.t. when compared with infection control. Effect of dietary selenium levels on the performance of goats exposed to endotoxin-induced biotic stress: Evaluation of selenium in the diet of male growing goats under endotoxin-induced stress conditions indicated that crude protein digestibility tended to be high in higher selenium-fed animals, however, no effects on growth, nutrient intake, and digestibility were reported. Absorption and retention of Se improved in 585 and 885 ppb Se-fed goats under normal as well as endotoxin stress conditions. Selenium requirement increased under biotic stress conditions and higher dietary selenium up to 885 ppb ameliorates the adverse effect of endotoxin and improves the metabolism of Se, serum mineral levels, haemoatobiochemical and antioxidant status, hepatic health, select hormone levels, and attenuates proinflammatory cytokines. Dendritic cell platforms for in vitro and in vivo studies of antigen processing and presentation in cattle for combined vaccine antigens using FMD virus and Pasteurella multocida as model: Purified 146S antigen of FMDV was characterized by double antibody sandwich ELISA and the concentration estimated by spectrophotometry was 82.5 µg/ml for serotype A, 423.3 µg/ml for O and 190.5 µg/ml for Asia 1. Further bacterial ghosts of P. multocida were produced using chemical methods and characterized by electron microscopy (SEM/TEM) and SDS-PAGE. The nano emulsion and PLGA (50:50) nanoparticles were produced and characterized by dynamic light scattering, zeta potential and SEM imaging. Size and potential were <500 nm and -12.5 mV for nano emulsion and <500 nm and -19.9 mV for PLGA nanoparticles, respectively. In order to express cytokines in the laboratory, IL4 and GM-CSF genes were cloned and expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cell lines. Monocyte derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) generated from bovine PBMCs were stimulated with different combinations of FMD antigens, bacterial ghost, OMVs, nano-emulsion and SLNPs, and subjected to flow cytometry analysis for CD40, CD80, CD86 and MHCII (DC markers). Captive breeding of hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha: Captive brood stocks were developed at different environment in three locations with fresh water system at Rahara, intermediate water system at Kolaghat and brackish water system at Kakdwip.