 • Another common misconception is that potatoes can cause or worsen diabetes. Resistant starch present in potato helps in more gradual rise and fall in blood sugar levels after eating and hence potatoes are not an unhealthy food for diabetics. In western countries, potatoes are consumed by one and all. • One more misconception is that all of the potato’s nutrients are found in the skin. While the skin does contain approximately half of the total dietary fiber, the majority (>50%) of the nutrients are found within the potato itself. As is true for most vegetables, cooking does impact the bioavailability of certain nutrients, particularly water-soluble vitamins and minerals, and nutrient loss is greatest when cooking involves water (boiling) and/or extended periods of time (baking). To protect most of the nutrition in a cooked potato, steaming and microwaving are the best methods of cooking potatoes. trace elements. A 100 g of potato contains approximately 40-65 mg of phosphorus. The lower phytic acid content of potatoes enhances phosphorous bioavailability to human body and also helps in increased bioavailability of calcium, iron and zinc. The potassium content of potato is also relatively high i.e 247-455 mg/100 g fresh weight. Because of high potassium content, potatoes are not included in the diet of patients with renal failure. On the other hand, the sodium content of potato is very low and the content is 11 mg/100 g fresh weight. Potatoes are a good source of iron and their iron content is comparable to most of the other vegetables. A 100 g of cooked potato can supply between 6 and 12% of daily iron requirement for children or adult. Moreover, due to high ascorbic acid content of potato, bioavailability of non-haem form of iron from potato is increased. Potatoes mixed with other food are also beneficial as it increases the bioavailability of iron from other foods also due to its high ascorbic acid content. Moreover, iron availability from potato is higher compared to other foods such as kidney beans, wheat flour and bread, reason being the high proportion of iron from potato is soluble. Potatoes provide up to 22 mg/100 g fresh weight of magnesium. Potato can be consumed with foods low in magnesium such as milk. Zinc is an important trace element found in potato. Though zinc content of potato is not very high but its availability is high because of the low phytic acid content. Potato can supply at least part of daily requirements of trace elements like copper, manganese, molybdenum and chromium. Traces of boron, bromine, iodine, aluminium, cobalt and selenium are also present in potato. A small potato can deliver 10% daily value of folate, manganese, magnesium and phosphorus. Therefore, potato being in reach of poorest of the poor can play a vital role in eradication of ‘Hidden Hunger’ which is also known as micronutrient malnutrition.