 The plants were multiplied in the Horticulture  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Control of insect-pest and reducing bitterness in sweet potato tubers through use of dry mahua flowers during planting Department (Tuber Section). The variety used was Kalmegh. The experiment was conducted in randomized block design in 15 replications with three treatments, viz., T1-Control, T2- ITK practice and T3-Spraying of monocrotophos (2 ml/litre of water) at an interval of 15 days for two times. Size of each treatment plot was 500 sq.m. Observations were taken on yield attributes, number of weevils/m2, bitterness and taste of tubers. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 reveal that the ITK was perceived to be superior to improved practice in terms of reducing bitterness, yield, taste after cooking, duration of storage and availability of materials. However, the improved practice was found to be more effective in control of insect-pests and crop growth than the ITK practice. Experiment Results obtained from field experimentation have been presented in Table 2. Data presented in Table 2 reveal that maximum vine length (180 cm) was found in T2 (application of dried mahua flowers) while minimum in T1 (control). The fresh weight of vine was also found to be higher in T2 (320 g/vine). The effect of application of mahua flowers was also observed Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessment of mahua flowers (ITK) and monocrotophos (improved practice) in controlling weevil and reducing bitterness in sweet potato N=20 Parameter ITK practice Improved practice Crop growth 3 5 No. of unaffected tubers 3 4 No. of tubers/plant 4 3 Efficacy 5 4 Yield 5 4 Availability of materials 5 2 Cost effectiveness 5 4 Taste 5 4 Bitterness 5 4 Taste after cooking 5 4 Duration of storage 5 4 to be substantial in terms of number of weevils/m2. While the number of weevils was 20 in control, it was low (4) in T2 (mahua flower treatment) and 6 in T3 (chemical insecticide treatment). Table 2. Vine length, fresh weight per vine and number of weevils in sweet potato as affected by application of mahua flowers and monocrotophos Treatment Vine length (cm) Fresh Weight/ vine (g) No. of weevils/ m2 T1 Control 109 210 20 T2 ITK practice 180 320 4 T3 Monocrotophos 140 270 6 Table 3. Extent of bitterness of sweet potato and taste after cooking Treatment Bitterness Taste after Cooking T1 Control High Good T2 ITK practice Low Better T3 Monocrotophos Medium Good  HORTICULTURE CROPS Sample plants were uprooted for testing the bitterness and taste after cooking. Data given in Table 3 reveal that on testing, the bitterness and taste after cooking in tubers of T2 were found to be low and better while in T1 it was high and good, and in T3 medium and good, respectively. CONCLUSION Use of mahua flowers during planting of sweet potato was found to be superior to the use of chemical pesticide (monocrotophos) in controlling weevil and reducing bitterness in sweet potato.