 Since horticulture provides a higher return per unit of land and generates more employment, development of horticulture will certainly help in alleviating the economic condition of the farmers. Blessed with rich biodiversity and conducive agro-climatic conditions, the region has all the potential to transform into a commercial horticulture hub. (Dr Suresh K Malhotra) November–December 2023 3 Message Horticulture in Northeast India H ORTICULTURE sector is moving at a fast pace owing to its immense potential in improving nutrition and well-being, raising farm income, generating employment opportunities and earning foreign exchange. Horticulture is also recognized as a major driver of growth in agriculture in India, contributes nearly 30% of the Gross Domestic Product of agriculture. The area and production of horticulture crops in India are increasing rapidly and presently it covers 28.08 million ha with annual production of more than 350 million tonnes. In the present era, there is an urgent need for wider adoption of the modern technologies to sustain horticultural production, increase farm profitability, mitigate the emerging challenges of climate change as well as biotic and abiotic stresses. Horticultural crops are integral part of human diet to meet food and nutritional security. These diverse group of crops with rich source of vitamins, minerals, phytonutrients are instrumental for mitigating malnutrition to the growing population of India. Northeastern part of India can become an important zone for horticultural production and processing. Value addition in horticultural crops through development of processed and innovative products holds immense export potential and generating employment to the rural India. Indian Academy of Horticultural Sciences (Formerly, The Horticultural Society of India, established in 1942) has been organizing Horticulture Congress biennially since 2004 to discuss recent advancements and define the future course of action in horticulture. The 10th Indian Horticulture Congress-2023 is celebrating “Unleashing Horticulture Potential for Self-Reliant India”, and gives a special emphasis on the potential of Northeast India, which is a potential hub for horticulture production and export. The Northeastern states have been gifted with a unique topography and varied agro-climatic and soil conditions which offer vast resources and scope for the development of various horticultural crops. At this juncture, with proper attention given, high quality horticulture crops can be grown in the region throughout the year and create a vibrant horticulture industry in the country. It will increase awareness of the importance of fruits and vegetables in the region.