 Establishment of ground covers: Establishing ground covers along with rubber in the interspaces will restrict weed growth and reduce cost of weed control. High quality of tapping, weekly tapping and controlled upward tapping: Quality standards for scientific tapping have been developed by Rubber Board through long term research carried out by RRII. Low Frequency Tapping (LFT) such as weekly tapping to address shortage of tappers and reduce cost of production without compromising yield and extending economic life of the trees Economic aspects: Good quality tapping will improve yield anywhere between 10-30%, depending on the current quality of tapping. Weekly tapping will reduce taping cost by almost 50%compared to twice a week tapping frequency. Rubber Board has successfully adapted Controlled Upward Tapping (CUT) with periodic panel change as suited for the agro- climatic conditions of the country. 275 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Plantation crops: Tea Biclonal seed stock and high yielding clones Explosion of biclonal seed stock from BISS-1 to BISS-5 and recommended graft combination for infilling. Ensuring adoption of high yielding clones like UPASI 3,8,17,25,28 for new planting. Planting of identified clones for problems zones UPASI 3/UPASI 2/UPASI 3/ UPASI 6 (biclonal UPASI 3, 8, 17 , 25, 28 (High yielding clones) #Drought prone areas- UPASI 9. # wind prone areas UPASI2, UPASI 10 # Frost prone areas UPASI 15, 16 Highlands of Idukki, Waynad, Ernakulam, Thiruvanthampuram and Kollam Production of quality planting materials Adopting vegetative propagation with one leaf and intermodal cutting with axillary bud; from a periodic shoot from pruned tea bush. Adopting hedge system of planting •Training techniques like cantering for arresting apical dominance, to prevent growth of Premature pruning at the end of 5 years at a height of 45cm above ground level. •Maintaining a pruning cycle of 4 years is low and midelevation areas and 5 years for fields in high elevation are as Advocate tipping, where 4 leaves and a bud constitute the budding material. Plantation crops: Coffee Production of quality plants materials Planting of improved varieties combining high yieldand rust resistant and semi dwarf stature and goodquality beans like Cauvery, CxR hybrids. Use of basket nurseries for raising quality planting materials Advocate plant protection measures against brown eye spot in nursery. Highlands of Idukki, Waynad, and Palakkad. Plantation of Cashew Planting of soft wood grafts of improved varieties. Soft wood grafts have been identified as the best planting Material for realizing maximum and consistent yield. Cultivation of high yielding varieties is the most important step in improving productivity in cashew.