 Immediate relief to farmers in case of natural calamities; x. Training and sensitization to the farmers to adopt latest technique; xi. Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme in each block. Strategy 4 : Infrastructural Development i. Strengthen R&D activities in farm Universities/Institutions for providing site- specific technical support to all farm developmental agencies operating in the State. ii. Road connectivity & provision of uninterrupted power supply; iii. Strengthening infrastructure based on PPP mode, such as go-downs, cold storage etc. iv. Creation of modern infrastructure for preservation and processing of agri produces v. Mini Grading machines should be installed at village level vi. Fruit & vegetable processing units should be installed in cluster. vii. Packing facilities for Processed /raw fruits and vegetables should be incorporated in clusters viii. The public investment in agriculture has been declining and is one of the main reasons behind the declining productivity and low capital formation in the agriculture sector. With the burden on productivity - driven growth in the future, this worrisome trend must be reversed. ix. Private investment in agriculture has also been slow and must be stimulated through appropriate policies. Considering that nearly 70 percent of India still lives in villages, agricultural growth will continue to be the engine of broad-based economic growth and development as well as of natural resource conservation, leave alone food security and poverty alleviation. Accelerated investments are needed to facilitate agricultural and rural development Strategy 5 : HRD and Extension i. Skill development training: This one of the most important flagship programmers of Govt. of India (Kaushal Vikas Se Krishi Vikas) which emphasizes that farmer’s income can be State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 218 enhanced by imparting skill development training in agriculture. Due to its importance Agriculture skill Council of India (ASCI) was established. ii. Use of ICT in extension: It is essential for rapid dissemination of customized information to the farmers for increasing the rate of adoption of innovations. iii. Farmers to farmer extension (F2FE): Farmers seek advice and information related to agriculture from fellow farmers. The NSSO date also reveals that only 40 per cent farmers had access to any source of information on modern technology. Of those who had access to such information, the highest proportion obtained information from other progressive farmers. iv. Village knowledge centre: There should be knowledge centre at Village level so that farmers get access to modern technologies in the village itself. v. Strengthening of convergence: Convergence of KVK, ATMA, Line department, bank, cooperatives etc need to be strengthened for resources as well as expertise. Strategy 6 : Waste land development and waste water i.