 Enhancing agricultural productivity in the NER can help address the anticipated demand-supply gap, boost rural farm incomes, and support the overall socio-economic development of the region. To navigate these interconnected challenges, a comprehensive strategy emphasizing system diversification is crucial. This involves promoting crop diversification to enhance food security, implementing sustainable farming practices that foster soil health and biodiversity, improving irrigation and water management, and developing strategies to increase climate resilience. Capacity building initiatives and the establishment of market oriented agriculture can empower farmers, facilitating the transition from subsistence practices to economically viable farming. Agronomic interventions for productivity and income enhancement in the region Diversification/intensification of rice fallow lands: Crop diversification is an innovative approach to sustainable agriculture often serving as a safeguard against the vagaries of nature. The primary factors contributing to lower agricultural productivity in Indian Farming 75 (01): 89-92; January 2025 Indian Farming 90 January 2025 the region are low cropping intensity, inefficient on- farm input management, use of late-maturing and low yielding crop varieties, declining soil fertility and winter fallowing. Key challenges in rice cultivation includes receding moisture content in the soil profile after rice harvest creating moisture stress condition for the subsequent crop, excessive moisture in the low-lying areas creating waterlogged condition and poor plant stand in rice fallows resulting in poor crop establishment. To sustain productivity and profitability in the face of climate change, it is crucial to diversify the rice-based system by replacing some of the crops with millets, fodders, pulses, oilseeds, maize, and pulses like, lentil and chickpea are the most potent candidate crops for these regions. Lentil could be preferred over other crops due to its short duration and low water requirement. Additionally, the crops selected for rice fallows must be fast growing with early and wide canopy coverage to minimize evaporation losses while improving water- use efficiency. After harvesting rice, grown either by lowland transplanting or upland direct seeding, results into stubbles standing in the field to support crops like pea, lentil, and rapeseed. Sowing of subsequent rabi crops begins by late November, accompanied by weed management through systemic herbicides or manual weeding. Tailored fertilizer doses are applied within the furrows, with nitrogen sourced from farmyard manure for organic production. This approach allows harvesting before the April rains, resulting in impressive yields (green peas producing 5.0-8.0 t/ha, lentil 1.0-1.2 t/ha, and rapeseed 0.50-0.85 t/ha).