 Potato is a short duration crop of 90-120 days, having highest yield per day per unit area as compared to other major crops. Being a relatively short duration crop in the plains of India, its mechanization assumes a special importance in order to accomplish various farm operations in limited available time. Manual production of potato is time consuming and tedious job, it requires about 1,600-2,000 man- hours per hectare for all the operations. With the emergence of new crop rotations and enhanced cropping intensity, many farmers experience scarcity of time and labour. Efforts have been made at various levels to mechanise both production and processing to reduce the manpower requirement, drudgery and cost of production. Various mechanical tools, implements and machinery have been developed for land development, fertilizer application, seed treatment, planting, weeding, harvesting, grading, sorting, storage and on- farm processing of potato. Field preparation: After burying green manure crop (usually dhaincha) with disc plow, mould board plow or disc harrow or rotavator followed by one planking makes field conditions favorable for decomposition of green manure. Potato requires good tilth soils to ensure covering of stolons/tubers and also to provide adequate aeration for respiration of roots and tubers. To get a good yield, soil should be loose and friable with good drainage and aeration. Subsoiler is an important primary tillage implement. It breaks the hard pan below the soil surface and provides good drainage environment. Pre-sowing irrigation has to be done before field preparation to have uniform germination. After 5-7 days of pre-sowing Green manuring with disc harrow, deep tillage with sub-soiler improves infiltration and final field preparation with rotavator November–December 2019 51 irrigation, 2-3 cross harrowing or 3-4 tiller operations followed by two planking make the required seedbed for a good crop of potato. Among the primary and secondary tillage implements, the rotavator is most popular for preparation of field which provides fine level of soil tilth. All these implements are easily available in the market and are being used for other crops also. Fertilizer application Fertilizer type, quantity and placement are important factors for good production of potato crop. Precise and judicious use of fertilizer is of prime importance to ensure efficient utilization and reduce the cost of farm input and environmental risk. After seedbed preparation, a fertilizer drill-cum-marker or fertilizer broadcaster can be used for fertilizer application. Fertilizer drill-cum-line marker is a machine which ensures uniform placement of fertilizer in furrows and marks the line impressions at 600 or 650 mm fixed row spacings for tuber placement. With this machine fertilizer rate can be adjusted between 50-300 kg/ha with a field capacity of 4.0 ha/day.