 Diagnostics Development of competitive ELISA kit for detection of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) p80 antibodies in cattle: A competitive ELISA kit for detection of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) p80 antibodies was developed which is intended for serological diagnosis of BVD in cattle. It is based on the recombinant NS3 antigen of an Indian BVDV-1 isolate and anti-NS3 monoclonal antibody. Development of CRISPR/Cas 12 based diagnostic test for rapid detection of African Swine Fever (ASF) virus: A two-step CRISPR/Cas 12a based diagnostic test was developed for rapid detection of African swine fever virus in samples of porcine origin. The test was evaluated using DNA extracted from 115 known ASFV positive (n=79) and negative (n=36) field samples. WOAH recommended real time qPCR assay was taken as the gold standard test. The sensitivity was estimated to be 97.47% and specificity of 83.33%. A SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit developed was released by Hon’ble Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry & Dairying and Hon’ble Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare along with Secy. (DARE) & DG (ICAR) on ICAR Foundation Day (July 16, 2023). A reverse transcription-multiplex PCR strategy devised for concomitant detection and differentiation of FMDV serotypes where in three assays with unique combinations of serotype specific primers targeting the VP1 region were developed to differentiate FMD virus serotypes O, A and Asia 1. The relative diagnostic sensitivity was 99.69%, 98.78% and 99.08% for primer combinations 1, 2 and 3, respectively. The validated novel mPCR assays show promise to be included in the routine diagnostic toolbox to augment the efficiency of diagnosis of FMD virus serotypes that display extreme genetic diversity and a tendency of transboundary dispersal. A TaqMan-probe-based one-step multiplex real- time RT-PCR assay for pan-serotype detection of FMDV was developed and found to be sensitive and specific. The diagnostic sensitivity was 100% (95% CI; 99-100), and specificity was 100% (95% CI; 94-100%). A sandwich ELISA was developed using rabbit polyclonal anti-FMDV/O serum and MAb #FMDV- O-5B6 for detection of FMDV/O antigen in clinical samples. The diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of the new assay was 100% and 98.89% respectively compared to the conventional polyclonal antibody-based assay. Further, the MAb- based ELISA showed better analytical sensitivity than polyclonal antibody-based ELISA. Development of the pregnancy diagnosis kit for Mithun: A urine-based pregnancy diagnosis kit ‘Preg-DM’ was developed and validated in collaboration with ICAR-CIRB, Hisar. The kit helps to detect pregnancy as early as days 30 to 35 post breeding for achieving high lifetime productivity. Development of paper-based discs for detection of sorbitol in milk: Test can be performed as platform test to detect sorbitol on the milk reception dock or at BMC level.