 Altosaar was an author in earlier versions of the manuscript that described the development of BNBt. Dr. Kumar indicated that he had removed Dr. Altosaar's name from the list of authors of this manuscript after it was decided by ICAR that the construct would henceforth be referred to as "NRCPB construct". For the same reason, the contribution of Dr. Altosaar by way of providing the cry1Ac gene is not even acknowledged anywhere in the Current Science paper. Dr. Kumar indicated that any acknowledgement of Dr. Altosaar's contribution would go against the ICAR policy decision that this should be 17 considered a "NRCPB construct". Therefore, he removed Dr. Altosaar's name from the list of authors on the BNBt manuscript, even though he felt that this was ethically incorrect. Dr. Kumar also provided the committee with an earlier version of the manuscript that had Dr. Altosaar listed as a co-author, a fact that if needed, can be verified with journal. Based on the above, the committee suggests that ICAR should think about not taking policy decisions of this nature that would compromise the ability of its scientists to take ethically correct decisions. 9.04 In view of the fact that this was considered a project of national importance and priority, ICAR HQ could have, and should have, interacted more with project scientists to be able to detect the weakness of the effort on BNBt. It should also have been more alert and sensitive in its approach to respecting Material Transfer Agreements signed by its officers. 9.05 In some of its projects, ICAR also has the system of having a Mission Leader. In the NATP project under question, the Mission Leader was Dr. R.P. Sharma. It is not clear if he, or his successor, Dr. K.R. Koundal provided leadership to the project. However, the Committee has refrained from commenting on the role of the Mission Leader because neither Dr. Sharma nor Dr. Koundal became co-authors of the paper published in Current Science. 10.00 At the end, the Committee would like to place on record its heartfelt thanks to all the officers of ICAR and UAS who have interacted with it or have helped the Committee otherwise in its work by way of secretarial assistance. The Committee would also like to place on record its appreciation for the co-opted members, namely Dr. Imran Siddiqi of Centre for Cellular and Molecular Biology (CCMB) and Dr. Pankaj Rathore of Punjab Agricultural University (PAU) for willingly providing their services and assistance to the Committee. This report has 13 Annexures which are, in view of the Committee, important in throwing light on the Committee's recommendations. ~1-PP}",~ 1Z~O~~,,- (B.S. DHILLON) (R.V. SONTI) 18 6~~ ~6 (RAJIV EHRISHI)( ( ANNEXURE-I INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH KRISHI BHAWAN: NEW DELHI F.No.