 In case of CSS having no State share and where as per the scheme guidelines, funds are released by the Central Ministry/Department directly to the districts/blocks/Gram Panchayats/Implementing agencies, the requirement of notifying a single Nodal Agency and opening of a Single Nodal Account at the State level may be waived by the Secretary of the Central Ministry/Department concerned in consultation with the Financial Adviser. 24. UTs without legislature work directly in PFMS. Therefore, there is no need for them to open a Single Nodal Account. They will ensure that the funds are released to the vendors/beneficiaries 'just in time'. In case funds are to be released to any agency as per scheme guidelines, provision of Rule 230 (vii) of GRF 2017 will be strictly followed to avoid parking of funds, with agencies. 25. Ministries/Departments shall undertake monthly review of the release of funds (both the Central and State Share) from the State treasury to the SNA, utilization of funds by SNAs and IAs and outputs/outcomes vis-a-vis the targets for each CSS. This issues with the approval of Secretary (Expenditure) and shall supersede all earlier guidelines on this subject. (Subhash Chandra Meena) Director (FCD) 011-24368543 E-mail: subhash.meena@nic. To, 1. All Secretaries to the Government of India 2. All Financial Advisers to the Government of India 3. All Pr. CCAs/CCAs of all Ministries/Departments Copy to: 1. PSO to Secretary (Expenditure) 2. PPS to CGA 3. Sr. PPS to Addl. Secretary (Expenditure) 4. PSO to Addl. Secretary (Pers) 5. Sr. PPS to JS (PFC-II) 6. Sr. PPS to JS(PF-S) 78 F.No. 1(13)/PFMS/FCD/2021 Government of India Ministry of Finance Department of Expenditure 5th Floor,Block 1,CGO Complex, New Delhi, the 30th June,2021 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject: Procedure for Release of funds under the Centrally Sponsored Schemes (CSS) and monitoring utilization of the funds released The undersigned is directed to refer to para 10 of this Department's Office Memorandum of even number dated 23rd March, 2021 wherein it is stated that: "The SNAs shall ensure that the interest earned from the funds released should be mandatorily remitted to the respective Consolidated Funds on pro-rata basis in terms of Rule 230(8) of GFR, 2017. Interest earned should be clearly and separately depicted in PFMS, scheme-specific portals integrated with PFMS and in MIS provided by banks.” 2. In this regard, it is clarified that the Single Nodal Agency (SNA) of each CSS in the State shall compute the total interest earned out of the funds received in its account (both from the Central Government and the State Government) in the preceding financial year in the 1st week of April each year. The interest earned will be apportioned by the SNA between the Central and the State Government as per the approved funding pattern of the CSS and shall be deposited in the respective Consolidated Funds.