 The Government of India has provided support for research and human resources development in support of agricultural mechanization. The agricultural engineering programs conducted in many state agricultural universities have facilitated agricultural mechanization in India. 139 Bakker (1990) provides a comprehensive contemporary account on the Gandhian “basic needs” approach in developing particularly “appropriate technologies” for food production systems. He concluded that new technologies are developed and more often used regardless of their appropriateness to the context and which he attributed partly to the disciplinary specialization which blurs the complexity of food systems. Gandhiji had a conviction that research should be sensitive to the local needs and should not lead to introduction of technological innovations forcefully on such systems which are not adequately prepared for willingly adopt them (Bakker 1990). ICAR has internalized this principle and has structural mechanism to sensitize the community regarding new innovations and also to evaluate them in the farmers’ fields to build their confidence. It has implemented a novel initiative called Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, where in all the ICAR institutions and its network of KVKs have adopted a village and nurtured them to adopt contemporary technologies and varieties developed by various ICAR institutions so as to evolve as self-sufficient models. 3.5. Natural Resource Conservation and Environmental Sustainability Gandhiji believed that the earth is not merely there to be mined, logged and hollowed out and we have to first preserve the ecological equanimity of the body. He was a staunch critic of the “waste” generated from modern industrial practices and its long-term consequences on humanity. The idea of modern agriculture systems promoted by ICAR which factors “wealth from waste” stems from this Gandhian philosophy. Gandhiji considered even plucking leaves was violence and remarked, “we should pluck the required number of leaves after offering an apology to the tree for doing so”. Today’s Green India Initiative has typical reflection of Gandhiji’s sentiments towards this. Gandhiji believed the consumption of meat adds pressure of the meat industry on natural resources like soil and water. The modern science on water and soil conservation is deeply associated with his philosophy of nurturing natural resources. The extent of energy or greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from meat production compared to local traditional foods is well-documented. He advocated the production of paper using recycled material to save wood. South Asian countries are most vulnerable to climate change and the Gandhian philosophy has particular relevance for climate change adaptation and co-benefits of mitigation. 3.6. Organic Manures, Sanitation and Hygiene vis-à-vis Framing Gandhiji’s ideal village focused on public hygiene and sanitation. He gave great importance to sanitation and personal hygiene.