 Northeast India Primarily, indigenous farming practices are followed in the Northeast (NE) region which are chiefly organic in nature and depend on the indigenous technical knowledge systems ubiquitous in the region for centuries. The agro-climate of the region is generally rainfed, which is most conducive for organic farming. Low use of synthetic fertilizers (<12.0 kg/ha) and chemicals, abundant availability of biomass and animal manure are typical to the region, therefore, this region, offers sufficient prospects for organic farming. Thus, the Government of India identified NE as a potential hub for promoting organic farming. While Sikkim was declared as the first fully organic state of the country in 2016, all the other Northeastern states intend transition to organic farming even if it may not be 100 per cent. Presently, a total of 1,98,348 ha is utilized for organic farming in the NE that includes almost 1,38,328 ha under NPOP certified organic farming while another 60,020 ha is in the process of conversion. Interestingly, this area encompasses all eight states with the highest area of 75,475 ha in Sikkim. Other seven states, apart from Sikkim, reveal encouraging signs of progress on the road to adopting organic farming. The production is expected to improve with the transfer and adoption of complete organic production technologies. Ravikant Avasthe1 and V B Patel2 Prospects Indian Horticulture 12 Realizing the potential of organic farming in the Northeastern Region of the country, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmer Welfare has launched a Central Sector Scheme entitled “Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North Eastern Region (MOVCD- NER)” for implementation in Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura. The scheme aims at the development of certified organic production in a value chain mode to link growers with consumers and to support the development of the entire value chain starting from inputs, seed, and certification, to the creation of facilities for collection, aggregation, processing marketing and brand building initiatives. According to the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare the MOVCD-NER scheme launched during 2015-16 has facilitated 1.73 lakh ha area under organic farming benefiting 1.89 lakh farmers as on 15 July 2023. During this period, 379 FPOs/FPCs were established entailing the creation of 205 collection, aggregation and grading units, 190 custom hiring centers and 123 processing units and packaging houses. Seven brands have also been developed. Crop diversity Northeast India has been established as a global biodiversity hotspot, and it is acknowledged for its diverse soil types, climate, and phyto and faunal diversity. The region is bestowed with a diversity of numerous fruits, vegetables, flowers particularly orchids, spices and medicinal plants. Likewise, a vast array of indigenous crops also anticipates opportunities to be utilized.