17: Inter University Faculty Exchange Programme Provision for faculty exchange and fellowships for the faculty has been made in the National Agriculture Education Project. [Action: All VCs; ADG (EQR)] Agenda 7: Agenda from EQR Agenda 7.1: Guidelines for dual degree and joint degree programmes Some cases of dual degree were considered by Dr. R. B. Lal committee and decisions were conveyed to the concerned. More proposals, if received, will be put up to the sectorial committee 15 of the Accreditation Board. However, the proposal for the reduction of period to 4 years for Masters and PhD joint degree was not agreed to. [Action:ADG (EQR)] Agenda 7.2: Operational guidelines for Experiential Learning. Modules have been proposed by Task force and universities may also consider additional modules based on the profitability. The modules need to be implemented by the university as per the guidelines developed by the committee constituted under the chairmanship of Dr. S. L. Mehta. [Action:All VCs] Agenda 8: From the Universities (Related to EQR) Agenda 8.1: Strengthening Sericulture Research and Education/Inclusion of MSHAE in Sericulture A committee has been constituted under chairmanship of Dr K. Narayangowda to evolve minimum standards of higher agricultural education in sericulture. The committee has been requested submit the report at the earliest. The universities were also requested to consider admission of B.Sc. (sericulture) graduates for admission to related disciplines for PG programme. [Action:All VCs& VC, UAS, Bangalore] Agenda 8.2: Relaxation of one additional year for remedial courses in agriculture to the students admitted to PG School IARI The issue was raised by IARI, but was not accepted, considering the various problems during implementation. Agenda 8.3: Introduction of integrated programme for M.Sc./ Ph.D. at IARI New Delhi It was felt that issue needs more deliberations before its consideration. [Action :Dir., IARI] Agenda 8.4: Establishment of Research Project Monitoring Cell: The PME cells have already been setup by various AUs. Other universities need to take such measures. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.5: Fisheries Science students should be given more experience in basic science courses. The basic science courses such as Chemistry, Physics, Cell Biology, and 16 Mathematics should be included in the curricula To matter may be taken by the Dean’s Committee, already constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr. R. B. Singh. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 8.6: Offering short duration sandwich programmes to B. F. Sc. students in the following subjects such as Scuba diving and remote sensing University may initiate action using own resources. [Action: VC, TNFU, Nagapattinam)] Agenda 8.7: Strengthening of SAUs – ZARS system for enhancing the quality of research in the present perspective There is no provision for providing the financial support for this purpose in XII Plan. Agenda 8.8: Support for motivational lecture by management gurus.