 The gradual increase in precipitation amount and frequency of wet days can potentially contribute to reducing the in­ tensity of future droughts events at some places in the GRB. Some sub-basins (Indravati, Lower Godavari, Sabari, Wardha, Fig. 5. Influence of climate change on annual average rainfall and temperature using past, present, future optimistic and pessimistic scenarios over GRB. K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 12 Fig. 6. Trend of spatial variation of rainfall over a baseline (1981–2019) reference period. Fig. 7. Trend of spatial variation of rainfall and annual mean temperature over a baseline (1981–2019) reference period. K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 13 Wainganga, and Pranitha) showed an increasing frequency of total and severe-to-extreme droughts under the optimistic scenario (+2 K). Whereas under the pessimistic scenario (+4 K), they showed a decrease in the frequency of total droughts and a gradual rise in the frequency of severe-to-extreme droughts (Fig. 12-C and D). This implies that if global warming continues, an extreme drought situation will likely occur in the future over the GRB. Therefore, it is crucial to understand the persis­ tence of drought and its impact to determine which sub-basins are more vulnerable considering their socio-economic activities, and hence SPEI values over both scenarios have been used to conduct spatial analysis. Fig. 13 demonstrates the results for the probability of drought oc­ currences and its spatial variation in the future under the impact of increasing warming, and it indicates that more drought episodes are likely to occur at the central belt, particularly over the sub-basins of Wardha, Wainganga, Pranitha, and part of Indravati and Lower Godavari. Therefore, the results suggest that drought mitigation mea­ sures should prioritise these areas. This spatiotemporal analysis was also used to test the hypothesis “dry become drier and wet become wetter in the future” for future climate change scenarios. The hypothesis was demonstrated to be true over most sub-basins. The sub-basins of Pen­ ganga, Wardha, and Wainganga-Pranhita, located at the north-western part of GRB, were predicted to present lower precipitation (drier) in the future, whereas the sub-basins of Sabari, Indravati, and the south- west part of Pravara and Upper Godavari were predicted to present a gradual increase in precipitation (wetter) in the future (Fig. 13-A and B). The hypothesis was considered negative (false) in a few locations, including the lower south and lower southeast districts of the GRB. This also confirms that the climate change impacts vary with location and time. Therefore, there is a need for local assessments of climate change risks and impacts. Accordingly, this study performed a comprehensive assessment of drought risks and impacts on agriculture.