89 Ascorbic acid (μg g-1) 79 78 81 Riboflavin (μg g-1) 158 76 99 Thiamine (μg g-1) 233 26 59 Niacin (μg g-1) 1340 1041 471 January–February 2021 39 Indian Horticulture 40 kg sand is also incorporated. Before filling, the rain water should be allowed to collect in the pit and then be flushed twice or thrice to remove harmful salts from the pit for better establishment of plants. Thereafter, filled pit should be irrigated immediately and planting should be done after 20-25 days of filling of the pit which helps to complete the soil reaction with pre-treated gypsum. After soil becomes workable the grafted/ budded plants are planted in the centre of the pit with the help of planting board during July-August. Young plants need irrigation; frequency should be at 10-15 days interval in summer and one month interval during winter. In bearing orchards, generally irrigation is not required. During dry summer, bael plants shed all its leaves enabling the plant to escape ill-effects of hot dry winds. However, irrigation may be applied at an interval of 20-30 days during May-June just after the emergence of new leaves. Apart from irrigation, basin of trees should be cleaned by weeding and hoeing to provide suitable environment for tree growth. Mulching with organic waste has been found very effective for establishment of bael orchards in sodic and ravenous wasteland. Among the different materials, of mulch, paddy straw or sugarcane thrash show better response. Young plants are trained with the help of stakes, so that plants grow erect. In order to provide good framework, it is essential not to allow lateral branches upto 75 cm from the ground level on trunk. Afterwards, 4-6 branches emerging in different directions should only be allowed. The tree should be trained in modified leader system during initial 4-5 years. Generally, bael does not require pruning, however, dead and criss- cross branches, diseased, weak and broken twigs should be removed time to time. For good yield and quality production, fertilizer dose of 5 Kg FYM, 50 g N, 25 g P and 50 g K per plant is applied to one year old plant. This dose is increased every year to the multiple of 10 years. Hence, a ten year or above aged plant should be given FYM 50 Kg, 1.0 Kg N, 250 g P and 500 g K. In sodic soil, plants generally show symptoms of zinc deficiency, which can be corrected by basal application of zinc sulphate (250 g) per tree along with fertilizer. In the orchards where fruit cracking is the problem, 250 g borax per tree should be applied along with fertilizers. During the early years of young plantations, the inter-space can be utilized for growing suitable intercrops. Leguminous crops like, pea, cowpea, moong, urd, guar and vegetables like brinjal, tomato, spinach, coriander, chilli and garlic or oil seed crop like mustard can be cultivated. While taking inter-crop, care should be taken that crops requiring frequent irrigation and heavy dose of fertilizer should not be grown.