 Further, it is procured by An innovative onion storage structure India is the second largest producer of onion contributing about 20% of the world production. Onion is cultivated both during monsoon and post-monsoon seasons. The latter is preferred by the farmers for its superior quality, larger and uniform bulb size, and better storability. However, incidence of unseasonal rainfall, unstable market prices, lack of adequate storage facility leads to distressed sales and spoilage of onions. This necessitates the development of low-cost durable storage structures at a farmers’ field. Therefore, a single span hut shape structure (60’ L × 5’ B × 7’ H) with east-west orientation has been developed using MS pipes, metal wire mesh, tarpaulin/shade net etc. Such innovative on-farm, affordable, and sturdy storage structures are ideal for storing about 30 tonnes of onions for six months during the summer when the market is always glutted. This structure also helps in maintaining a better micro-climate for enhancing shelf-life and minimizing storage losses. Onion stock stored in such structure shall help to get assured price to farmers and maintain market stability during the lean period of August to November of the year. Technology Pratapsingh S Khapte*, G C Wakchaure, Sushil S Changan, A K Singh and K Sammi Reddy Fig. 1. Shade curing of onions before storage Indian Horticulture 40 large onion traders in which some of the quantity is stored based on the various quality parameters, and the ability of onion bulbs to retain scales and remaining produce is traded through the marketing chain. If the market price is below average during the harvesting season, then farmers prefer to store their produce but there is always a shortage or unavailability of storage structures. Traditionally onion storage was done in wooden and bamboo and made storage structures with a tin sheet covering near the farmers’ fields in the villages. However, due to the unavailability of raw material and high yearly maintenance of traditional wooden structures which are also prone to termites attack, these types of structures are rarely seen in the villages. However, in this situation portable/knock-down, low-cost, durable onion storage structures can be erected. On-farm, low-cost, durable onion storage structure Design specifications: The design of the structure is the most important aspect for minimizing the storage losses in the onion and specifications are given in Table 1. The ideal orientation of the structure is the East-West direction because the pre-monsoon winds blow from the south-western direction where the cool air will easily pass through the buffer space of the arch and metal wire mesh from the side of the structure. The structure should be erected at an elevated level near the roadside for loading produce during the rainy season.