 Vasava (1992a) 100 Scaring of birds by pooling bamboo strips Bamboo strips are tied to the big trees, where the birds usually gathers and attack the crop. By pooling the bamboo strip, the branches of the tree are shaken and thus the birds can be scared to protect the crop from their attack (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999–2000) 101 Control of wild rice by growing coloured variety of paddy Wild rice being identical to cultivated rice plants in morphology, it is not possible to distinguish between the two before seed maturity. At maturity, the ripened seeds keep on shattering and therefore, it becomes practically impossible to eradicate this weed. Farmers grow purple coloured rice variety, ‘R-575’. This variety has dark purple coloured foliage which is Singh et al. (1996) 42 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference distinctly different from wild rice. Thus wild rice becomes easier to identify and weed out at early stages of growth. This method works wonderfully as there is no other way to control this weed. Once, a field gets infested with wild rice by continuous cultivation, the coloured variety is grown for 3-4 years in that field and all the plants with green foliage are removed manually (Himachal Pradesh). 102 Control of weeds in maize Ploughing by desi plough in maize crop at knee height stage to control weeds which also ameliorates physical condition of soil for proper growth and yield of the crop (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 103 Control of crops damage caused by wild pigs by erecting barricades The tribals have very well understood the behaviour of wild pigs. Wild pigs destroy crops on large scale. Hence the tribals have developed their own technique by providing bamboo fencing. It is reported that the when pigs come across any barricades at the height of their head (Approx 1.5 ft.) they return back. In view of this behavioral aspect, the tribals prepared the bamboo compound putting two three horizontal bamboos approximately at the height of 1.5 ft. As soon as the head of pig touches the bamboo, the pig immediately go back (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999–2000) 104 Control of striga in sorghum (i) Seeds of suva (Anthenum graveolens) are incorporated with sorghum seeds approximately 3 to 4 kg/ha at the time of sowing to avoid the emergence of striga. Suva has very slow growth. Its growth is suppressed at later stages due to shortage of light, water and nutrients. Hence, there is no detrimental effect on the growth of sorghum. ii) Farmers divert the harvested rainwater of adjoining fields into the striga-affected fields in Saurashtra. Cut branches of Calotropis (Calotropis sp) are kept at the entrance of the rain water channel. This practice reportedly minimizes the striga population to a great extent, if repeated for several times during rainy days (Bharuch, Gujarat). Ganchi (1992b) 43 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.