 Further, the organization for economic cooperation and development (OECD) developed it in 1998. Since then, the term has gained importance in the future of agriculture and agroforestry development. Multifunctionality means the simultaneous provision of diverse outputs and consequent satisfaction of multiple demands Field view and benefits reaped from multifunctional agroforestry Indian Farming 30 August 2023 that have proven to strengthen livelihood of people and their sustainability. The concept of multifunctional agroforestry recognizes agroforestry as multiple output activity producing both commodity (tangible benefits) and non-commodity outputs (environmental and cultural services). Need for multifunctional agroforestry Currently, the area under agroforestry is 28.03 million hectares (mha) and it will be expanding shortly, which is estimated to be 53.32 mha in 2050. It is also estimated that the planet has to sustain around 9.8 million people by 2050. Therefore, the demand for food is expected to increase as population numbers grow. At the same time, climate change is taking a firmer hold, making farming more difficult and unpredictable for smallholder farmers, resulting in increased poverty and food insecurity. These small-scale farmers are the key to ensuring food security for many people living in poverty. Smallholders with less than 2 ha produce 70–80% of the world’s food. They provide livelihoods to almost 2 billion women and men. Under such circumstances, multifunctional agroforestry will be a potential low hanging fruit to achieve food security and environmental sustainability Criteria for selection Keeping in view the innovations in agroforestry, the following factors were considered for selection of species in multifunctional agroforestry: • The tree species favoured by farmers and adapted to suitable climatic and edaphic conditions were preferred • Straight, medium to fast growing and species that allow light penetration for growth of intercrops. • Species that provide short- and long-term income with potential economic and service benefits. • The tree species with short to medium rotation were considered. • Multiple tree species (fruits, medicinal plants, tree borne oil seeds, timber, plywood, and fodder) were the option to cater multiple needs of the farmers. • Prime importance was given to competition factors (water, nutrients and light). The multiple species leaf litter would also provide soil nutrients of varying properties on decomposition. Design of multifunctional agroforestry model Multifunctional agroforestry model (MFA) was developed at Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Tamil Nadu, India especially designed on the concept of family farming and more specifically for small farmers. The designed MFA model comprises of 25 tree species and 08 intercrops covering 0.75 acre. It is designed in a circular shape and delineates separate importance to each circle, viz.