 • Prioritisation of interventions that can produce maximum impact within short time span • Formulation of objectives and activities of sub projects for technical/institutional interventions • Implementation of interventions through grass root level NGOs Monitoring and evaluation of outcome (iii) Application of dissemination tools for scaling out of innovations and best practices for large scale adoption by landless, small & medium scale farmers • Documentation of best practices and potential innovations that can improve the efficiency of goat value chain as a whole • Evidence based policy dialogue with policy makers and planners • Outreach workshop 5. Way forward Articulated in the tagline better lives through livestock, ILRI will move from a focus on livestock as a pathway out of poverty to a broader agenda that addresses poverty and food security in ways that are environmentally sustainable, good for human health and nutrition, and equitable. Towards this, ILRI will broaden its target beneficiaries to include other value chain and civil society actors, and poor urban as well as rural consumers. ILRI will also pilot forward-looking interventions for the livestock farmers of the future and support more comprehensive food-system productivity and supply to consumers. In this venture, ILRI will work not only with the smallest scale farmers but also with more commercially oriented livestock producers and value chain actors.  ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 61 Headquartered in Mexico, the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center (known by its Spanish acronym 'CIMMYT') works to reduce poverty and hunger by sustainably increasing the productivity of maize and wheat based farming systems in Asia, Africa and Latin America. In 2016, we celebrated CIMMYT’s 50th Anniversary. The ICAR-CIMMYT partnership in agricultural research is one of the longest and most productive in the world with a rich history of five decades. The collaboration started with the visit of Nobel Laureate Dr. Norman E. Borlaug to India in 1963 for ushering in “Green Revolution” in active partnership with the Government of India. In 2011, Borlaug Institute for South Asia (BISA), a joint initiative of CIMMYT and Government of India (ICAR), was established with 3 centers (Ludhiana, Jabalpur and Samastipur) to address food, nutrition, environment and livelihood security in South Asia. CIMMYT, and BISA, has currently more than 110 staff in India operating from 12 sites. CGIAR Research Programs (CRPs) on maize, wheat and CCAFS are the corner stone of the ICAR– CIMMYT collaborative work plan 2013-2017. Collaborative research in India is resourced by CRPs and funding sources from various donors including a contribution from ICAR. In addition to ICAR, as of 2016, CIMMYT was investing around 8 million US$ in India through other funding sources. 2.i.