 Crop diversification plays a vital role in ensuring stable/higher income and also climate risk resilience. Crop diversification with intercropping, double/strip cropping systems enhances resource use efficiency, and overall system productivity and income per unit area to the small holders. Further, crop diversification provides variety of products enabling farmers to grow surplus products or sell at market and thus help to obtain increased income to meet other needs related to household well-being. Diversifying from the monoculture of traditional staples can have important nutritional benefits for farmers. Diversification can also manage price risk, on the assumption that not all products will suffer low market prices at the same time and increase the profitability of the farming community. Thus, crop diversification contributes to achieving food and nutritional security, income growth, employment generation and sustainable rainfed agriculture. *Corresponding author email: vn.jasti@icar.gov.in HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc.