 higher total consumption by larvae (38%), extended larval duration (13%) with increased larval weights (17%), and differential pupal weights (14%) in successive generations were recorded at eCO2+eTemp. compared to ambient conditions. Their effect was continued on various insect performance indices also, with higher relative consumption rate, RCR (40%); lower relative growth rate, RGR (11%); varied approximate digestibility (AD); efficiency of conversion of ingested food (ECI) and digested food (ECD) of S. frugiperda larvae. The interactive effect of eCO2 and eTemp. led to a higher Potential Population Impact of eT and eT+eCO2 conditions on yield parameters of four black gram genotypes Increase Index (PPII) (19%) due to higher fecund adults. The effect of eCO2 offsets the impact of eTemp. when interacting together on some of the insect parameters. The present results indicate that eCO2 and eTemp. play a key role in influencing the growth and development of S. frugiperda, indicating higher pest incidence in future climate change periods. Impact of climate change on pearl millet yield: Climate indicators from historical data (from 1997-98 onwards) at district level relevant to pearl millet yield prediction were identified and derived. One-way fixed effect panel data regression model was fitted, taking pearl millet yield as dependent variable. Time invariant Bio-engineering measures for the stabilization of ravine slopes and its productive utilization in Western India The conservation measures such as (a) Bench terracing + Sapota (Bt); (b) Bench terracing + Sapota with crop cultivation (BtCr); (c) Continuous slope + Sapota (Sl) and (d) Continuous slope + Sapota with trenches (SlTr) were evaluated for stabilization of ravines slopes. Bench terracing and trenching brought in significant decrease in runoff (34% and 16%, respectively) and soil erosion (25% and 15%, respectively), and enhanced tree growth, biomass and carbon stock. The results indicated that bench terracing is the best conservation measure for the stabilization of slopes in ravine lands followed by trenching. These conservation measures could also be important strategies for climate change mitigation and adaptation for such highly degraded ravine lands. Stabilization of ravine slopes Pearl millet Yield QE2019-20 (Baseline) N N N Impact of Climate change on Pearl millet Yield (2040-2069) Impact of Climate change on Peari millet Yield (2070-2099) With the scenario of RCP 4.5 (IPCC AR5) and no technological trend ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 127 CLIMATE RESILIENT AGRICULTURE pearl millet yield to weather aberrations were captured as slope of those indicators. Predictors used for fitting the model were derived with 2050s and 2080s with CMIP5 ensemble climate projections for RCP 4.5 scenario. Yield projections for pearl millet were made based on the fitted model for 2050s and 2080s. Impact of climate change on pearl millet yield at district level was assessed for 2050s and 2080s.