 The use of this crop would result in product competitiveness of location specific traditional value added products. Laddoo prepared by AICRN on potential crops Source: University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru Amaranth/Rajgira is mostly rolled and popped and can be used in muesli, granola bars, chapati, panjiri, cakes, chikki, malt/ beverages, barfi, laddu, upama, salty biscuits, ready to eat breakfast cereals, etc. Recepies of various value added products from grain amaranth were developed and standardized at Department of Food Science, Nutrition and Technology, College of Home Science, Chaudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur; University of Agriculture, Gandhi Krishi Vigyana Kendra (GKVK), Bangalore; Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar; Indira Gandhi Table 2. Suitable intercrop systems of grain amaranth Intercrop system Appropriate row ratio Recommended area French bean + amaranth 2:1 Hill regions Rice bean + amaranth 2:1 Hill regions Ragi + amaranth 6:2 Karnataka Groundnut + amaranth 6:1 Karnataka Pigeonpea + amaranth 1:2 Karnataka, Orissa Pigeonpea + amaranth 1:1 Orissa Grain amaranth + Gram 1:1 Gujarat Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Raipur, Chhattisgarh, India for the utilization of amaranth. Keeping in view the great significance of grain amaranth, there is a scope to exploit its potential to promote entrepreneurships in various food items at household and cottage industry level. Summary Amaranth is considered as a staple Indian diet and is described as a superfood because of its high protein content and well-balanced amino acid profile. In terms of nutrient content, amaranth surpasses many staple crops (cereals) such as rice, corn and wheat. Additionally, its lysine content is twice than in rice and thrice than in corn. Along with desirable agronomic traits, this crop has been largely applauded for its gluten-free nature. Not only it benefits the vegan and gluten allergy human beings, but it also has the potential to supply high-quality proteins and at the same time provides antimicrobial activities in the packaged food items. Despite all these properties, this crop is still not in the mainstream cultivation practices in India and the world. By adopting improved varieties and agro-techniques as described above, the yield of grain amaranth in both hills and plains can be substantially increased. It will not only ameliorate the economic condition of the farmer’s dwelling in the hills and plains, but will also enhance the availability of nutritious food to check malnutrition in human beings. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: nareshjajoriya20@gmail.com Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.