 Most importantly, the resource poor farmers are not willing to replace their farming system which has been going on for generations. They are also unaware of the lucrative profits that can be earned through complementary use of natural resources to generate income from different farm enterprises. So, the study was carried out to transform the existing farming system efficiently by integrating appropriate farm components to ensure continual flow of income to farmers. The year- round pleasant climate, traditional mixed farming system, availability of local animals, small ponds and rivers nearby farms offer great opportunity for initiation and incorporation of scientific integrated farming system (IFS) in majority of the farms. IFS is a proven technology to ensure sustainable income to farmers and generate employment to rural youth. Moreover, it is a reliable approach for obtaining higher system productivity while improving soil health and sustaining the environment. Present farming system and scope of IFS among Mizo farmers Agriculture is the economic background of Mizoram. About Indian Farming 40 August 2023 65% of the population is engaged in agriculture even though the cultivable land is extremely limited as the majority of the land is covered by hilly ranges with steep slopes. Crop and livestock farming has been predominant among Mizo farmers with permanent land holdings. The crops are grown under a mixed cropping system without proper crop selection and are cultivated without scientific knowledge. Moreover, poor yielding local cultivars have dominated crop cultivation resulting in lower crop production. Crop and soil health management are secondary to poor resource farmers, as long as the crop produces enough yield to feed the household. The crops are grown under rainfed condition and there is a lack of water harvesting structures to supplement irrigation during winter (rabi) season. The lack of scientific management of animals, fishes, crops, soil and ignorance on farm integrated systems have resulted in lower overall productivity of farms. Thus, it is extremely important to choose the right farm components and allocate farm resources according to a scientific IFS model. IFS has never been a new approach but a refinement of the existing farming system into a sustainable one. So, there is a great scope for intervention of IFS into our farming system. IFS is a farming system that combines agriculture with horticulture, livestocks, poultry and fish on the same farm in a complementary manner to generate periodic flow of income, improve farm productivity and maintain sustainability of the farm.