1 cultivation in the 84th meeting of the GEAC on ZMav Z008 115 Dr Khadi sent ten seeds to the Bt referraJ labs on 4th May This was also not discussed or reported in the meetings 2008 (which was a Sunday) tar reconfirmation of the event held in May and Dec 2008 present in BN Bt...... Eight samples were found to be , ~sitjve for £USA and also for MONS31. 16 A meeting was convened by Honourable DOC ( Dr P L No meeting was held an the ZI" of March 2008. Gautam J and the issues related to MONS31 event were However, two meetings were held under my discussed tn depth in his chamber on the 215\ March 2008 chairmanship as DOG (CS). in the presence of Or P Aoanda Kumar. Dr B M Khadi. Dr The first meeting on 21- May 2008 was "for discussing Katageri and other officials including the ADGs. Dr K C Jain the road mapI fut1Jre st:r'aUflYfor the promotion and and Dr Jahalemb utiliSQtfon ofBNSt cotton" and the second meeting on 12 Dec 2008 was convened to ..dlsalss the m,odaJities for c:ommerdaUsatton / liunslng of BN Bt cotton event BN Bt variety and lire Bt catton h,ybrkls developed using the BN Bt n'eIIt'. This was neitheT discussed nor reported in the minutes of the meetings held in May and Dec 2008. Had Dr Kranthi or Dr Khadi or Dr Anaeda Kumar infonned about the contamination in the BN Bt cotton. the sa~e could have been recorded in the minutes and c:orreec;ive action/me.asur:es ensured. The m1nutes of the two meeting are official documents and ma.y be re(erred'(or authenticitv. 17 Dr Kranthi described the results obtained by the Bt referral As indiated above. no such d1scusslon took place either laboratory and requested that if would be appropriate to in the meeting held on 21 May or 12 Dec 2008. This is take remedLal measures. in view of me detection of the false and call be verifIed from the proceedings of Mon531 in the nUnlortcd BN Btsamnles. met!tinJZS held in Mav and D.ec,2008. 19 The chairman pointed out that Dr KTantbi was an As IndIcated above, this Is touJly an after lhollibt tn entomologtst: and therefore the results should not be blken order to mislead and misrepresent the facts. as t:}l.e seriously. He also asked Dr Kranthl not to carry out any statement is far from (acts on records. further moleroJar testing Qf the samples and only to tarI')' forward the commercialisation process with full zul, iildherinp to all the instructions laid out in the nroceedfn~. 20 The chairman decided that the BN Bt seeds would be All the decisions """ere taken unanimously after produced by UAS Dharwad. considerable discussions and deliberations and w;th the conCUrrence oJ all tlle..meOlbert present In the" meetings, inclUding Dr. Khadi (May ZOOS) and Dr Kranthl (May and Dec 2008). It was a consensus decision and does not reflect the Views of any individual. 6/Pogt 1:2.3.