 Pit size should be 0.5 m × 0.5 m × 0.5 m and planting distance should be 3 m × 3 m. D. Advisories for horticultural crops a. Pineapple can be planted during May – June. Planting material should be dipped in Mancozeb 75 WP (2 g/l of water) solution before planting to protect the crop from bud rot and leaf spot. b. Banana can be planted in the month of May. Heavy rainy period should be avoided. Well drained, fertile, high land, free from water logging, sandy loam soil should be selected. c. Time of planting for papaya is April – June. Well drained, high land, free from water logging, sandy loam soil should be selected. Dioecious cultivars like Co 1, Co 2, Washington, Ranchi, CO 5, hermaphrodite type cultivar like Solo, Coorg Honey Dew, Pusa Majesty, Pusa Delicious, Halflong, CO 3 and dwarf cultivar like Sapna, Red Lady etc. are recommended for various zones of Assam. Pit size should be 45 cm × 45 cm × 45 cm, planting distance should be 1.8 m × 1.8 m and method of planting should be 4 seedlings / pit in case of dioecious type and 1 seedling / pit in case of hermaphrodite type. d. Assam lemon can be planted during May to August. Well drained loamy soil, free from water logging should be selected. Stem cutting, leaf bud cutting and air layering are the propagating materials. One year old rooted cutting is the best planting material. Pit size should be 0.5 m × 0.5 m × 0.5 m and planting distance should be 3 m × 3 m. e. Ridge gourd, sponge gourd, snake gourd etc can be sown in the month of June. Well drained sandy loam to loam soil should be selected. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 82 f. For controlling fruit fly in cucurbits, spraying of Malathion 50 EC @ 2 ml/lit with 1% molasses to attract the pest is recommended. As an ITK, smoking with rice straw bundle along with dry chilli can also be practiced. For controlling cut worm, incorporation of Malathion 5 % dust in the soil around the plant is recommended. For controlling Fusarium root rot, pre sowing seed treatment with Captan 50 WP @ 5 g/kg of seed may be done. g. Recommended planting time of betel vine is May – August. It is propagated by terminal stem cutting obtained from mature mother vines. Before planting, soil should be treated with formalin solution (4%) by sprinkling @ 3 litre per sqm of soil and covered with polythene sheets or moist gunny bags for 24 hours. Planting should not be done for 15 -20 days following formalin treatment. E. Crop advisories for Livestock a. Piggery yy Proper cleaning of sty/ pig house, feeding and watering trough during morning hours. yy Restriction in movement of people to the farm for bio-security. Use of good disinfectant in foot bath. yy Monitoring of health condition of whole herd at least 2-3 times a day. Feeding of pigs two times during morning and evening. yy Proper feeding of suckling piglets at specific times so that milk feeding may be curtailed gradually with the introduction of creep ration and weaning of piglets at appropriate time may be done.