 The remaining 30-40% increase in income must be realized through institutional innovations such as reforms in pricing, aggregation of producers into companies to have a collective bargaining power in terms of buying inputs and selling output and a robust agricultural insurance product covering all gamut of farming including crop, livestock, fishery, horticulture, sericulture etc. The noble goal of Doubling Framers Income will only be realized if there is a concerted effort in all sectors and by implementing an action plan at the ground level involving all the stakeholders. SUCCESS STORIES 1. Integrated Farming System: a success story in Karnataka Shri Basavaraj Huchchayyanavar, S/o Shri Virupakshappa Huchchayyanavar of Chikkamalligawad village, is a BA graduate and has completed Diploma in Dairy. He has got 4.0 ha. land with irrigation facility at Chikkamalligawad village of Dharwad taluka. Shri Basavaraj Huchchayyanavar has adopted Integrated Farming System (Agri-Horti-Silvi- Pasture system, Animal husbandry, Production and use of organic manures and pesticides, Soil and water conservation techniques and Sericulture). With his self interest and motivation, cultivating field crops (0.6 ha), horticulture crops (1.0 ha), involved in sericulture (2.0 ha), vermicomposting (0.4 ha), agro-forestry, dairy, poultry and fishery. He has adopted innovative technologies such as labour saving equipments and tools viz., tractor, 267 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 sprayers, bullock and tractor drawn implements and other minor agricultural implements. Shri Basavaraj has adopted integrated farming system and strongly endorses organic farming in all his agricultural practices. He grows a versatile crops including field crops such as jowar, maize, paddy etc., He is cultivating mango, guava, lime, sapota, as well as vegetables and has grown teak, fodder crops, acacia and sandal wood all along the bunds. He has attained household food security which is self-sustainable. He has constructed large scale open pit for production of vermicomposting (75’x75’) and 4 small pits (4’x20’) through which he produces 90 tons of vermicompost every year. Besides, he also produces vermicompost of 90 tons/ year in heap system (40’x 40’) with minimum labour engagement. He has enhanced production of vermicompost through utilization of bio gas and bio-digester slurry. He has adopted wider row spacing (5’x3’) in sericulture with improved mulberry varieties (V-1) and growing vegetables as intercrop. He is also rearing sericulture eggs at farm level which is transported and marketed to Mysore. He has cultivated mango with guava, lime and mulberry as intercropping in organic form. Bio gas generated from agri and animal waste is utilized for cleaning Chandrike. The innovative farmer is cultivating local/native varieties of paddy so as to protect and preserve endangered local paddy varieties.