 For further interaction, please write to: Farooq A Khan (Professor-Plant Physiology), Division of Basic Sciences and Humanities, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology of Kashmir, Shalimar, Srinagar, Jammu & Kashmir. *Corresponding author email: drkhanfa1966@gmail.com NFT system of hydroponics at SKUAST-K Table 1. Vegetable crops suitable for hydroponics system Leafy vegetables Lettuce, Spinach, Kale, Chives, Coriander, Pakchoi, Baby leaves, Microgreens, Celery, Swiss chard, Atriplex Other than leafy vegetables Tomato, Capsicum, Chilli, Brinjal, Cucumber, Turnip, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Onion, Melons, Radish Growing lettuce using NFT hydroponics NFT systems grow almost any kind of vegetable, but lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is the easiest vegetable to grow hydroponically, so it’s a great place to start. The nutrient film technique (NFT) was developed during the late 1960’s by Dr Allan Cooper at the Glasshouse Crops Research Institute in the U.K. This system allows a thin film of hydroponic growing solution to flow steadily over the plant roots. A principal advantage of this system in comparison with others is that a greatly reduced volume of nutrient solution is required. This system also provides highly oxygenated roots, ease of setup and takedown. Green leafy vegetables can be easily grown in soilless media because of their short life span and tender nature. These leafy vegetables are rich in antioxidants, fibre, vitamins, minerals and substances that help to protect from various diseases. Lettuce (Lactuca sativa) is most common among leafy vegetables that can be easily grown in hydroponic system and commercially it is mostly grown using the nutrient film technique (NFT) system. Growing of these leafy vegetables through hydroponic technique has several advantages compared to soil, like faster and uniform development of plants, higher average yield and balanced development, free from soil-borne diseases, eliminating use of harmful chemicals and superior quality of produce. This technique is gaining popularity in India, also various institutes and private firms are conducting experiments and trainings for efficient management of hydroponic systems. Life cycle of hydroponic lettuce is very short compared to traditionally grown lettuce. Hydroponic lettuce can be harvested after 35 to 40 days of production. Lettuce can be successfully grown in NFT system and more than 10 crops March–April 2023 87 Chilli farming for Indian health and wealth India is the largest producer of dry chilli in the world with an acreage of 702,047 ha and annual production of 2049213 tonnes. India being the world’s largest producer, consumer and exporter, contributes about 40% of total world’s production. Dry chilli contributes 31% among the total spice export from India with 557168 tonnes exported with an economic share of 8429.92 crore rupees. Indian dry chilli is majorly exported to China (Value of `3144.