 Horticulture research in India was initiated in 1954, with the establishment of the Division of Botany at ICAR- IARI. Over the years, several institutions and ICAR- AICRPs were operationalized with the research agenda relevant to the national plans and priorities for dedicated development in horticulture. Today, horticultural research is conducted through 23 Institutes/Directorates/NRCs, 13 AICRPs and 6 Network Projects/Outreach programmes, and one R&D setup in the NARES. Horticulture in India comprises diverse crops and commodities i.e., fruits including nut and plantation crops; vegetables including tuber crops, mushroom; ornamental plants; spices; medicinal and aromatic plants; honey bee rearing; bamboo, etc., have emerged as a major alternative for diversification and are contributing 31% to the agricultural GDP. Research on developing new varieties and management aspects of horticultural crops V B Patel1 and P C Tripathi2 Prospects Trends of area and production of Fruits and Vegetables in India (2011-12 to 2021-22) November–December 2023 7 over the past 75 years has contributed immensely to the growth of this sector. At present this sector is increasingly moving towards industries and commercialization, the new challenges are being thrown at us apart from the existing challenges. Intensive breeding efforts have resulted in the development of more than 2000 improved horticulture varieties encompassing high productivity, disease resistance, better nutritional quality, and suitability for processing. Amrapali in mango, Bhagwa in pomegranate, triple disease resistant tomato variety Arka Rakshak, leaf curl virus resistant chillies, high yielding Bheema super, Arka Kalyan in onion, Arka Prajwal in tuberose, and IISR Pratibha in turmeric are some examples. Potato varieties such as Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Bahar, Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Chipsona-1 account for 75% of cultivated potato in the country. Rapid propagation techniques like micro propagation and bioreactor technology in banana, micro propagation in pomegranate and ornamentals, aeroponics in potato, shoot tip grafting in citrus have dramatically facilitated the quality planting material production. Diagnostic kits to identify virus in citrus, peach and apple have aided in production of disease-free planting material. Research efforts led to a revolution in the production of cashewnut, oilpalm, pomegranate, dragon fruit (Kamalam), date palm, with tremendous increase in area and production. Growth of mushroom sector is another success story with 36-fold increase in production in the last decade. Anti-browning button mushroom variety DMR-NBS-5 is contributing to 32% of total button mushroom production. India has a lot of traditional horticulture crop varieties and 70 of them have been granted GI tags (fruit crops 36, vegetable crops 11, plantation and spice crops 8 each, flowering plants, and medicinal & aromatic plants 5 and 2 GI tags, respectively).