 The use of grafts, natural resources, organic matter, water-use efficiency, appropriate weed management and need based application of major and minor nutrients are essential steps for high yield and quality produce. Ensuring the productivity and sustainability, progressive increase of organic matter lead gradually to commensurate increase in soil fertility. Greater investment in research and development (R&D) of climate-resilient vegetable cultivation could provide high marginal payoffs in terms of generating new sources of economic growth and will help in catching international trade. *Corresponding author email: dangar.bhardwaj@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 53 January 2025 Forage production for livestock management and livelihood support Rajiv Kumar Agrawal*, Subhash Chand, Mukesh Choudhary and Satendra Kumar ICAR-Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 003 Most often, livestock is the only source of cash income for subsistence farms and also serves as insurance in the event of crop failure. Forage crops are essential for livestock growth, health and productivity. There is 23% deficit in dry fodder and 11% deficit in green fodder. To meet the ever- increasing livestock fodder and nutrient demand, there is a need for developing forage production technologies. In this article, the forage production technologies for different agroclimatic conditions are discussed to increase fodder productivity in the country. Keywords: Fodder beet, Fodder production, Forage, Hydroponic fodder, Moringa, Range grasses, Rainfed areas F ORAGES constitute the base of a complete food chain and are the source of protein and fat, i.e. meat, egg, milk and other dairy products through different livestock species. Feeding alone accounts for 60-70% of rearing cost, and timely availability of nutritious fodder from cheaper sources is crucial in maintaining the health and productivity. The major feed resources for livestock in our country include grasses, community grazing on common lands, crop residues and agricultural by- products, cultivated fodder, tree leaves from cultivated and uncultivated lands, and agro-industrial by- products. Crop residues, including fine straws, coarse straws, leguminous straws, and sugarcane tops, are the single largest bulk feed material readily available to farmers for feeding ruminants. The 20th Livestock Census (2019) has placed the total livestock population at 536.76 million, showing an increase of 4.8% over the Livestock Census 2012. Therefore, it is imperative to breed crop varieties for better yield, high nutritional value and tolerance to abiotic and abiotic stresses to meet the increasing demand for livestock in the country. Fodder production technologies can assist in achieving high crop yield under different ago-based systems.