 The seeds for varietal replacements are provided by seed hubs. Co 238 sugarcane variety which now occupies 90 per cent area produces 34-35 Mt sugarcane and it has been a use of disruptive technology for bioethanol production, which can be used as a fossil fuel and would be revolutionary with regard to environment. We are losing our biodiversity, sea levels are rising, ice is melting and water scarcity and pollution, food insecurity, toxic air quality and intensified flooding and wildfires all are leading to climate change. And to protect nature we have to act for nature positive agriculture and for this we need to revisit our traditional systems, Vedas and civilization to know how we were managing and what science was behind traditional systems. Regenerative agriculture is the need of the hour farming in a way to build and improve soil fertility; sequestering and storing atmospheric CO2 increasing on farm diversity and improving water and energy management. It is a holistic solution that represents the first step towards a wider set of economic, environmental and social benefits. Institutional framework needs to be strengthened. For institutes to be mainstream, we need to learn from the Bhrosa Kendras (established in Andhra Pradesh). The Bharosa Kendra which will be launched by the concerned authorities of Andhra Pradesh government would play an important role in the life of the farmers of the state. Through Bharosa Kendra, the farmers would be able to solve the problem with the assistance of professionals. These professionals will be sitting in the Rythu Bharosa Kendras to help all farmers in their farming activities which will result in bigger output and also bigger profit for all of the ranchers. Poverty is an important parameter for the development of the country the global Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) is an international measure of acute multidimensional poverty covering over 100 developing countries. It complements traditional monetary poverty measures by capturing acute deprivations in health, education and living standards that a person faces simultaneously. The Multidimensional Poverty Index (MPI) tracks deprivation across three following 19 Sustainable Agriculture dimensions and 12 indicators health (child mortality, nutrition and antenatal care), education (years of schooling, enrolment) and living standards (water, sanitation, electricity, cooking fuel, floor, assets and bank account). It first identifies which of the 12 deprivations each household experiences, then identifies households as poor if they suffer deprivations across one-third or more of the weighted indicators. According to India’s MPI, Bihar has the highest population of multidimensionally poor people and Kerala the lowest. Bihar also has the highest number of malnourished people, followed by Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Chhattisgarh.