 Some of the important technologies that have emerged from NASF funded projects are namely diagnostic kits for detection of Covid-19 infection in animals, pregnancy detection kits for cows, animal cloning technology, CRISPR/ Cas9 based technologies in maize and rice, E-nose sensors for scab prediction in apples etc. Besides, the scheme has led to development of quality human resources and their capacity building through advanced knowledge and skills. This publication depicts the various projects and their achievements supported by NASF in ICAR and other organizations across the country. It is hoped that this publication would be useful to showcase the success of the NASF scheme in promoting basic, strategic and translational research in the frontier areas of agricultural science. I would like to compliment the authors, team of NASF for bringing out this publication which shall be useful to academicians, researchers and policy makers in the future. (Himanshu Pathak) Dr. Himanshu Pathak Secretary (DARE) & DG, ICAR Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. India  v PREFACE I CAR activities on agricultural research, extension, education, and capacity building have significantly contributed to food, nutrition and livelihood security of the country. The outcomes of these activities have led to many innovations, growth and sustainability in Indian agriculture sector. National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) is one of the very important schemes of ICAR engaged in supporting innovative projects in basic, strategic and cutting-edge application research, translational research, international cooperation, extra mural research, scientific validation of farmers innovations etc. This scheme was created to address issues which can be solved by intensive basic and strategic research jointly by team of organizations/institutions to make India a global leader in research for agricultural development. The frontier research carried out in past decade has resulted in many achievements including genome sequencing of many species of plants and animals, identification of trait-specific genes in crops, livestock and fish. Gene modification experiments for improved resistance to biotic stresses especially in pigeon pea, potato and banana. Using CRISPR/Cas9 highly efficient herbicide-resistant maize lines as well as genetic improvement in rice were carried out. With the cloning technology in Murrah buffalo few cloned calves have been produced. The diagnostic kits for detection of Covid-19 in animals was developed. Encapsulated nano particle phytochemicals developed which combat anti-microbial resistance in poultry. Many sensor-based technologies were developed for detection of pests and in farm machineries. Decision Support Systems for insects, pests have been developed and entrepreneurship models through farm led innovations and Farmer producer companies have been established.