 4 ) that showed high vulnerability of agriculture to climate change. Since underweight is a composite indicator and assesses the overall nutritional status of children, we overlapped underweight prevalence with the vulnerability of agriculture to climate change. The results are presented in Fig. 5 . Our analysis identiﬁed 162 out of 572 districts (28.3%) to be climate vulnerable, rating worse than the national average of prevalence of underweight children ( < 5 years age). These districts were clustered in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Ma- harashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, and Karnataka. Further, 42 districts were identiﬁed under very high vulnerability and very high prevalence of underweight in which 9 districts were located in Madhya Pradesh, 7 districts in Rajasthan, 5 districts in Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra (each), 4 districts in Bihar, 3 districts in Jharkhand and Karnataka, and 1 districs in Uttarakhand. Stunting (another indicator of chronic under-nutrition) showed high prevalence (40–65%) in the districts of Uttar Pradesh, Jhark- hand, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and Maharashtra. Wasting (indicator of acute under- nutrition) showed high prevalence (35–47%) in the districts of Gu- jarat, Rajasthan, and Jharkhand. Two districts of Jammu & Kash- mir had prevalence of diarrhoea (poor hygiene and sanitation) above 40%. Almost every state had at least one district with more than 50% prevalence of anaemia (iron and folic acid deﬁciency) in children younger than ﬁve years of age. One district of Himachal Pradesh had a prevalence of 94.7% anaemia in children (NFHS-4). The analysis of CHI showed ‘ high to very high’ index value in the districts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Ut- tar Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Ut- tarakhand, and Telangana ( Fig. 6 ). To frame the levels of vulnerability of population for planning interventions and policies, the districts overlapping between CHI and VI was performed. On overlapping the two indices, 135 dis- tricts (23.6%) were identiﬁed, which had CHI level worse than the median CHI, and thus ‘ high to very high’ vulnerability to cli- mate change ( Fig. 7 ). The distribution of these districts was largely clustered in Maharashtra, Gujarat, Karnataka, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, and Bihar. Out of these, 35 districts were identiﬁed under very high vulnerability category for both the in- dices (CHI & VI), 33 districts at very high VI and high CHI, 33 dis- tricts at high VI and very high CHI, and 34 districts at high VI and high CHI ( Fig. 7 ). Madhya Pradesh had the highest number of dis- tricts (9) under very high CHI cateogy and very high vulnerability category, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh (each) had 6 districts while Gujarat and Bihar had 5 and 3 districts, respectively (refer to Table A3 in Supporting Material). 5.