 The farmers are realizing a net profit of ` 9–10 lakhs/ha annually. This enhancement in income helped in economic empowerment of the tribal farmers and brought a positive shift in their livelihood status. The venture was also successful in creating employment opportunities for the farm families in rural areas, where job options stimulate economic growth by increasing farmer's earning, creating rural employment and opening market opportunities. Moreover, formation of SPOOOK, FIG served as a forum for farmers to share information, knowledge and best practices with one another. This helped farmers to stay up-to-date on the latest techniques, technologies and market trends, as well as learns from each other’s experiences. This scheme not only opened a new marketing opportunity for the farmer interest group members, but they also started participating in other government initiatives. It Indian Farming 9 March 2023 also helped kiwifruit growers to negotiate better prices and terms for their products by acting as a collective bargaining unit. This ensured that farmer interest group members receive a fair share of the value chain. By working together, the beneficiaries strengthened stabilization. Under the patronage of ICAR, the members of SPOOOK, FIG organized the First Manipur Kiwifruit Festival in 2018; where the Honourable Minister of Horticulture and Soil Conservation, Govt. of Manipur graced the function as chief guest in the presence of dignitaries from District Administration, NABARD, SFAC, and other organizations. Since 2018, the State Level Kiwifruit Festival is organized by SPOOOK, FIG annually in close coordination with the ICAR-Manipur Centre. The main goals of the festival are awareness creation, brand building, bringing buyers and sellers together and promotion of organic kiwifruit. The organizer also bestows the “Best Kiwifruit Grower Award,” with a panel of judges made up of ICAR experts. Additionally, ICAR built a strong partnership with the Department of Horticulture and Soil Conservation, Govt. of Manipur to support efforts toward organic certification. As of right now, a sizable portion of the kiwifruit area has already undergone the process of organic certification under a centrally sponsored scheme on Mission Organic Value Chain Development for North-eastern Region. Market linkage has also been made between select progressive growers and the Manipur Organic Mission Agency. It is worth to mention that some beneficiaries received offer from e-commerce platform for supply of kiwifruit. One progressive farmer Shri R.D. Peter also established one small-scale processing unit under the brand name “Peter’s” at Purul Akutpa village, Senapati district. The interventions under tribal sub plan (TSP) have brought substantial improvement in the livelihood of the beneficiary farmers. More farmers are turning to ICAR these days for planting material and technical advice on kiwifruit farming.