 Changing climate is a concern and the Council is doing all to enable Indian agriculture climate resilient. Vulnerability Atlas for the country has been prepared to identify 100 most critically vulnerable districts for appropriate interventions. Several climate resilient crop varieties and animal breeds along with efficient NRM technologies have been successfully introduced in NICRA villages (151 nos.) spread across the country for enabling climate smart agriculture. District level contingency plans have been updated that are being adopted by the state governments. Some of the state governments – Maharashtra and Odisha have also come forward to up-scale the NICRA Village concept. Improvement of indigenous cattle breeds was conceptualized for the genetic improvement of Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal cattle in their home tracts. Protocol for organic sheep production has been developed, and recently organic livestock certification has also been obtained from Organic India. Further, the Council is actively popularizing the integrated farming system models for small-holders in different agro-climatic conditions and also organic farming system models developed for different crops through KVKs and SAUs. Towards strengthening agricultural education in the country, the Council has adopted the Fifth Deans’ Committee Report. Several reforms such as guidelines to maintain minimum standards in higher agricultural education has been issued to all the agricultural universities. For the first time, we introduced online student counselling system for admissions to UG and PG programmes. As part of personnel management in ICAR, a digital platform personnel management information systems along with posting and transfer modules have been introduced. The Council has just implemented the National Higher Agicultural Education Project for providing world class education within the country in the State Agricultural Universities. Global outreach of the Council has been visible being a member of the CGIAR System Council. As an active member of BRICS, DARE is hosting the Coordination Unit of BRICS Agricutlural Platform in New Delhi. DARE is also hosting the 4thIndia-ASEAN Agricutlure Ministers’ Meeting in New Delhi in January, 2018. Further, several MoUs and international DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 IV cooperation for strengthening agricultural education in our neighboring countries such as Myanmar and Afghanistan are proving to be fruitful. Further, the DARE/ICAR has got good number of new initiatives such as Farmer FIRST, Student READY, ARYA, Consortia Research Platforms, etc. to facilitate agricultural research through innovation and integration. I hope that the DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2017-18 will provide useful information to the diverse stakeholders and prove to be helpful literature for planning future programmes in agriculture research for development. (RADHA MOHAN SINGH) President ICAR Society DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 V Contents Foreword iii 1. Overview 1 2.