 The students are also exposed to agri-industry in the region and even outside the region. Under RAWE 24,244 students were trained through council’s support. Experiential learning: Experiential Learning (EL) is another major components of Student READY programme, to promote entrepreneurship, and to train students to be ‘job creators’ through practical end–to- end approach in product development. Till date 465 modules have been developed/supported by the council in profitable areas. These modules were supported in the disciplines of agricultural engineering, agriculture, biotechnology, fisheries, forestry, horticulture etc. The EL units were sanctioned to ANGARU, Guntur; BCKV, Mohanpur; BUAT, Banda; CSAUAT, Kanpur; MPKV, Rahuri; NAU, Navsari; OUAT, Bhubaneshwar; PAU, Ludhiana; RAU, Pusa, Samastipur; RLBCAU, Jhansi; RVSKV, Gwalior; SKUAST, Jammu; UAS, Dharwad; and UHS, Bagalkot. The Experiential Learning units were supported in agri bio-inputs, mushroom spawn production, agricultural waste management through vermicompost, animal feed formulation and production, bee-keeping and honey production, breeder seed production of groundnut, plant tissue culture, organic farming, post harvest processing, nursery raising, seed production of carps, etc. Human Resource Development Teaching, research and capacity building Niche Area of Excellence: Since inception 70 programmes have been supported out of which 55 programmes have been concluded and 15 are ongoing. Significant achievements • Digital courses are packaged with interactivity in compact format. Course on ‘Veterinary Entomology and Acarology’ was launched. E- learning website registered 3 lakh hits with highest monthly hit rate of 1,60,921. Two certificate programmes completed by the centre at NAARM, Hyderabad. • National Reference Standard for rabies vaccine was developed. The calibrated inactivated rabies vaccine will be used as a standard vaccine for potency determination of the inactivated rabies vaccine. Developed antiserum against IBDV for potency testing of inactivated IBD vaccines. This antiserum will be supplied to other QC labs for testing of IBDV vaccines. • Products based on canine-specific probiotic (Lactobacillus johnsonii CPN23) and polyphenols from Jerusalem artichoke- (JAE) and pomegranate peel-extract (PPE) were developed (Probiotic- PPE, Probiotic-JAE and Probiotic-PPE-JAE) and tested for shelf-life. The viability of the probiotic could be maintained up to 45 days under room temperature and refrigerated conditions. Probiotic- Practical exposure of students—banana ripening during RAWE Programme AAU, Anand Students involved in fabrication of greenhouse, SKUAST-Srinagar AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 100 Digital teaching on hybrid seed production in local language PPE-JAE could be used as a potential supplement for gut health promotion of dogs with inflammatory conditions of the intestine.