 Keeping this in view, it was felt that each university must have their own mobile exhibition van with Television and the CDs containing agricultural information. The fund necessary for this purpose may be provided by ICAR to all the SAUs for further enhancing the transfer of technology. It was pointed out that this falls under the Agricultural Extension Division which may consider the proposal. [Action: DDG(Extn)] Agenda 10.19: Regarding Mobile Clinic Van JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. It was pointed out that the problems of pest and diseases are mushrooming. Keeping in view the unawareness of farmers about technical know-how, it is proposed that the AUs should have their own mobile clinic vans for addressing the above issues right at the village level. The fund for the mobile van may be provided by ICAR. This agenda was covered under agenda 10.18. 30 Agenda 10.20: Establishment of staff training institutes in all state veterinary/Agriculture University SVVU, Tirupati presented the agenda. Faculty members are taking up teaching, research or extension assignments without much prior training on pedagogy/objectives and technical aspects of research keeping in view the mandate of the university/priorities of the state. The refresher course or short term training programmes, are mostly helpful in acquiring knowledge or skills in their areas of specialization, but programmes are sporadic and sometimes the faculty attend these programmes to fulfill their obligations for their promotions to higher cadre. Under these circumstances if funds are granted for establishment of staff training institute under the control of each state veterinary/agriculture university, the staff can be trained periodically and their skills can be updated regularly. This issue was already covered under agenda 9.11. Agenda 11: MISCELLANEOUS AGENDA Agenda 11.1: Filling up of vacant posts of teachers/scientists OUAT, Bhubaneswar informed that the permission of the Government of Orissa is awaited for filling up of some of the vacant posts of teachers/ scientists in different research stations/projects/newly opened colleges. The Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR may consider taking up the matter with the Chief Secretary, Government of Orissa for the purpose. It was decided to flag this issue in the draft letter to be sent to the Deputy Chairman, Planning Commission to be addressed to all CMs. [Action: ADG (EQR)] Agenda 11.2: Support for infrastructure and teaching posts for increase in seats due to OBC reservation Presenting the agenda, VB, Sriniketan informed that there has been increase in number of seats both at undergraduate and postgraduate level due to reservation of seats under OBC category, which have led to acute shortage of space both for classroom and laboratories. Similarly sanction of additional teaching posts will ease the load of present faculty member. Similar issue was raised by DUs. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (EQR)] 31 Agenda 11.