 During 2002 at CRRI research station showed that planting of wild sugarcane at 5 DAT was more effective than the other treatments. Incidence of leaf-folder was not observed on 20 DAT due to planting of wild sugarcane at 7 DAT and 14 DAT, and with application of imidacloprid. Planting of wild sugarcane before infestation by leaf-folder helped obtain rice yield of 63.2 to 64 q/ha, which was 68 q/ha when insecticide was applied. Observations at farmers’ fields further showed reduction of pest population towards 10th day of botanical treatment, and total control was observed after 20th and 30th day of treatment. No hills were lost by insect infestation in wild sugarcane treatment, whereas there was complete damage of 30 to 45% hills in untreated control plots. In addition, delayed flowering was observed with reduced panicle size. Substantial reduction in incidence of leaf-folder as determined by infestation of hill was obtained in the experiments conducted at farmers’ fields. Mode of action of S. spontaneum Observations taken on the micro-ecosystem after planting of Saccharam spontaneum revealed the following facts 1. Almost all the leaves of S. spontaneum provided habitation for spiders. 2. Spider eggs were available in 65% of S. spontaneum implanted in both leaf surfaces and at the leaf- sheath portion. 3. Spider population was 2-3/m2 after 5 days of planting of S. spontaneum, which gradually increased to 6-8 after 15 days, with small spider nymphs all over the field. 4. Two types of spiders Araneus sp. and Oxyopes sp. were observed to kill and devour the larvae of leaf-folder. 5. Web formation was perhaps another mode of action for controlling the caseworm by trapping it at moth stage. 6. High rate of egg laying of some of the spiders was observed on the broad leaf surface of S. spontaneum, which perhaps helped in spreading the population less time. 7. The egg masses collected from leaf showed 200- 250 spiders hatching from one egg mass. This may be another contribution of S. spontaneum to its efficacy against rice leaf-folder. Conclusion Planting of wild sugarcane (Saccharum spontaneum) is effective in controlling the infestation of rice leaf-folder both before and after infestation. It is due to the fact that wild sugarcane plants help in multiplication of different types of spiders that control the leaf-folder. Implantation of S. spontaneum in farmers' field Spider on stem of S. spontaneum A species of spider 12 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 4.4 Control of caseworm (Nymphula depunctatis) in rice by leaves of parasi and Sali Description of the ITK Caseworms are very common in the area of Khaspokharia village West Singhbhum district, Jharkhand. Fresh leaves of parasi (Cleistanthus collinus) and sali (Boswellia serrata) are spread on the insect-infested field @ 5 kg leaves per 100 m2. A majority of insects (70-80%) are controlled with this practice.