 Keywords: gharona, oashan, placenta, fodder Shri Jasubhai Parmar, Makania Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3312 Removal of placenta in animals by feeding madhu leaves 3313 Expulsion of placenta in cattle by using lady's finger, palm sugar and gingelly oil 3314 Expulsion of placenta in goats by using paste of amarvel In cattle and other animals, if placenta does not detach, it should be treated immediately, otherwise animal may die. About 1 kg of madhu (Madhuca indica) leaves mixed with 2 kg paddy is given to the animal to eat. The placenta and other uterus waste get detached within 1 hour. This assures no problem in future delivery also. Keywords: madhu, paddy, placenta, uterus About 250 g immature pods of lady's finger (Abelmoschus indicus or A. esculentus) and 200 g palm sugar are ground together finely to make a paste and this paste is then mixed with 500 ml gingelly oil. The prepared paste is administered orally to the cattle once a day for 2-3 days. Keywords: lady's finger, placenta, gingelly oil About 500 g of a common parasite creeper amarvel (Cuscuta reflexa), growing on trees and plants, is finely ground and mixed with adequate water to make a fine paste. This paste is then put in a bamboo bowl. A bowlful of this mixture is fed to the animal, once for 2 days. Keywords: amarvel, bamboo, bowl Shri Sampatbhai Nanabhai Ganagurde, Hathgad Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri P Vivekanandan/ SEVA, 45, TPM Nagar. Virattipathu, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 010 Shri P Vivekanandan/ SEVA, 45, TPM Nagar, Virattipathu, Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 010 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3315 Expulsion of placenta in animals by using leaves and vine offanj The leaves and pieces of vine, Clematis biloba (fanj), are boiled in water and the prepared decoction is allowed to cool. This decoction is fed to the diseased animal orally. Keywords: fanj, decoction Shri Balwanthsinh Laxmansinh Zala/ Ganeshbhai Hajabhai Bharvad, P.O. Udharoj, Viramgam, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3316 Use of shimmed (Salmalea sp.) for easy expulsion of placenta of cows 3317 Use of thore plant sap (wild cactus, Opunita spp.) with goat milk for dropping of retained placenta 3318 Treatment to drop retained placenta in animals For early and easy expulsion of placenta, bark of shimmal is crushed into powder and mixed with wheat flour, and then fed to the cow. It helps in easy expulsion of placenta. This ITK is used in Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: shimmal, placenta, wheat flour After calving some cows and buffaloes do not drop placenta either easily or it is retained for longer time. To overcome this problem, 200 ml sap of thore (Opuntia spp.) plant is mixed with 200-300 ml goat milk.