 Post-independence, this institute was finally renamed as Indian Veterinary Research Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 233 Institute (IVRI). The most significant contributions of the institute in the field of vaccine development and production are depicted in Fig. 1. Fig. 1. Important veterinary vaccines developed in the post-independence era Over a period of time, two animal health institutes, namely ICAR- Directorate of FMD (DFMD) and ICAR-National Institute of High Security Animal Diseases (NIHSAD) were established from IVRI. Both these institutes are now reference centers for FMD and Avian Influenza as recognized by FAO and OIE, respectively. Research need for FMD was realized at the 11th International Veterinary Congress in 1930 and later in 1943 ICAR initiated an ad-hoc scheme entitled “Vaccination of Indian cattle against foot-and-mouth disease” at IVRI, Mukteswar. An “All India Co-ordinated Research Project (AICRP) for FMD virus serotyping” was initiated in 1968 with a central FMD laboratory at Mukteswar and three Regional Centers located at Hisar, Hyderabad, and Calcutta. During the year 2001, AICRP on FMD was upgraded to Project Directorate on FMD (PDFMD) with a network of 23 laboratories located all over the country. In the year 2015, PDFMD was renamed DFMD with 27 regional and collaborating centers. ICAR-DFMD is a member of the Global FAO/OIE network of FMD reference laboratories. The institute also functions as the FAO-FMD Reference Center and SAARC Regional Leading Diagnostic Laboratory for FMD. It is a member of GFRA (Global FMD Research Alliance). The state-of-the-art FMD research centre (ICFMD) with high containment laboratory facility established by ICAR at Bhubaneswar meets the major requirement of FMDCP as stipulated by OIE/FAO. High Security Animal Diseases Laboratory (HSADL), a regional center under IVRI, Izatnagar was upgraded to an independent national institute and was named ICAR-NIHSAD, Bhopal in 2014 with the main objective to deal with emerging exotic animal diseases and bio- Indian Agriculture after Independence 234 risk management. The institute has Biosafety Level 3+ (BSL-3+) bio-containment facility available for research on exotic and high-risk pathogens of livestock and poultry in India. As a national referral laboratory, ICAR-NIHSAD is networking with all the 6 Regional Disease Diagnostic Laboratories (RDDLs) and provides diagnostic services for 30 exotic and emerging diseases. As an OIE reference laboratory for avian influenza, ICAR-NIHSAD provides diagnostic services to SAARC countries also. Realizing the significance of disease epidemiology and informatics in disease control and eradication, ICAR upgraded the AICRP on ADMAS to PD-ADMAS in 2000 and subsequently to ICAR-National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics (NIVEDI) in 2013.