 Methodology In this research, we used a comprehensive approach to assess the climate change impacts on drought, and a comprehensive drought risk assessment to analyse the respective risks to the agriculture sector. This approach allowed for a deeper understanding of the characteristics of climate change and its perception on the occurrences of drought over spatial and temporal scales using a baseline (past and present refer­ ences) and future (21st century) timeframe analyses. This analysis was used to identify the locations and crops at higher risks, which can be used as background to define mitigation measures to minimise potential risks and maintain socio-economic sustainability towards achieving SDGs, as illustrated in Fig. 2. Post data processing To clarify the impacts of climate change, we considered two future climate change scenarios (optimistic and pessimistic) obtained from the d4PDF data simulations. The raw data (observed meteorological data and future climate change projections) were in different formats and resolutions, so bilinear regridding was applied to match the datasets at similar locations considering the performance and suggestions from previous studies using similar data structure (Kumar et al., 2020; Mistry, 2019). The processed data were used for drought vulnerability and risk assessments and to predict the potential risks to crop production. The sub-basins boundaries were delineated via watershed delineation using DEM data (SRTM-30 m) in the Arc-hydrology tool of ArcGIS 10.6. The delineated watershed boundaries were further merged into 12 major sub-basins based on the location of meteorological stations currently used by the IMD to disseminate basin-level information over GRB. These 12 sub-basins have been used as regional units for climate change impact assessments using the spatiotemporal modelling approach. A spatiotemporal analysis was conducted to determine the pattern and magnitude of change using Sen’s slope estimator of Mann–Kendall test (Kundu et al., 2015; Panda and Sahu, 2019). Several researchers have used the Mann–Kendall statistical test to quantify the significance of trends for time-series hydro-meteorological variables (Jhajharia et al., 2014; Kumar et al., 2020; Yaduvanshi et al., 2021), and Sen’s slope estimator has been widely used to analyse the hydro-meteorological time series data (Kundu et al., 2015; Panda and Sahu, 2019). Datasets of high-resolution daily gridded precipitation and temper­ ature data from 01 January 1980 to 31 December 2019 were used to determine drought indices, namely the standardised precipitation index (SPI) and standardised precipitation evapotranspiration index (SPEI), over the historical baseline period. The baseline period was subdivided into two sub-timeframes, past and present. The past dataset included the first three decades (1981–2010), and the present timeframe dataset included the most recently available data (2011–2019).