 Strategies to mitigate challenges of nutritional security through intercropping or monocropping of millets with cash crops in potential niche areas would help in regaining global nutritional security in a sustainable manner. Keywords: Area, Himachal Pradesh, Millets, Pseudocereals, Production T HE Himalayas being the youngest mountain system of the Earth, encourages high environmental variability and supports rich biodiversity. However, abrupt climatic variations characterized by an increasing temperature, extreme variations in rainfall/snowfall pattern, frequent droughts and fluctuation in diurnal temperature is greatly affecting the availability of biotic resources on sustained basis. Climate change and malnutrition are becoming major concerns across India and globe. Poshan Abhiyaan also known as National Nutrition Mission is India’s flagship scheme launched in 2018 keeping in view the poor nutrition status of dietary food. Main focus of mission is to lay emphasis on improvement of nutritional outcomes of adolescents, children, pregnant women and lactating mothers in the country. Millets are referred to as nutri-cereals and possess nutraceutical properties providing food and nutritional Indian Farming 73 (12): 08-10; December 2023 security to the dryland agriculture as they are the hardiest and most resilient crop under adverse climatic conditions. Current and future status of millets in Himachal Pradesh Millets and pseudocereals are being grown in all districts of Himachal Pradesh with varying degree. Most of the districts of Himachal Pradesh grow one or more millet crop species and some pockets of district Shimla and Kinnaur grow pseudocereals in substantial quantity for domestic consumption. A total of ~ 1084.9 tonnes of millets food grains are produced in Himachal Pradesh from nearly 1882 ha area (Directorate of Agriculture, Shimla, HP, 2022). In Himachal Pradesh, Shimla, Kinnaur and Kangra are the topmost district in millets cultivation with a share of 36%, 32% and 14% to total millets area. Sub-tropical mountain and mid hills of Himachal comprising Una, Bilaspur, Hamirpur, Sirmour, Solan, Kangra and Chamba district grow more of finger millet, pearl millet, little millet and foxtail millet contributing 358.9 tonnes of millet food grains production from 485.72 ha area. Kangra district alone account for more than 54% area with overall production of more than 41% under monocropping system. High hill wet temperate and dry temperate zones of Himachal comprising districts of Shimla, Kullu, Mandi, Kinnaur and Lahaul & Spiti account for almost 50% area under millets and pseudocereals. Wet and dry temperate zone of Himachal Pradesh contribute 1395.7 ha area with millet production of 726 tonnes which account for 74% area and 67% total millet production of Himachal Pradesh. In Shimla, Kullu and Mandi district, millets are grown as intercropped either with apple and other crops.