 Gandhiji further recommends cooperative farming to realize full potentials and benefits of large farming situations. All the Gandhian Philosophies discussed in this article are true even to our modern day agriculture and numerous government schemes and ICAR initiatives have helped in realizing those philosophies for a better livelihood of Indian farmers. Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 182 Chapter 17 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead AK Singh, RN Padaria and VK Singh “If man is to survive, if civilization is to survive and flower in freedom, truth and decency, the remainder of twentieth century and what lies beyond must belong not to Lenin or Trotsky not to Marx or Mao or Ho or Che, but to Mahatma Gandhi.” Louis Fisher 1. Introduction The impregnation of development and reform pathways with Gandhian philosophy has been local to global. His ideologies have been universally appreciated and adored despite its enigmatic features. His fundamental beliefs and ideologies have been instrumental in activating not only a person’s endeavour towards self-actualization and salvation but also in a meliorist’ s pursuit for social reforms as well as crusaders’ fight for liberation and even a nations’ constructive policies for development and welfare of people. Besides the principle of truthfulness to self, secularism, non-violence, and cleanliness; he laid emphasis upon equality and aspired for a classless society with no poverty, no hunger, no unemployment and education and health for all. He had a great concern for the poor and downtrodden. Mahatma had a clear vision of villages and gave a vehement declaration that “India lives in her seven and half lakhs of villages” (Young India, 1931) and asserted that “If village perishes, India will perish too” (Gandhi 1934). Gandhiji indicated that the country’s success resided in the growth of the large proportion of its rural villages, while emphasizing the advancement of the rural economy, industry and the development of rural skills. Further, he asserted that placing ‘village’ as the focal point developmental programmes was the best way to give the rural people a decent living. He advocated sustainable model of development. His cautious observation “technologize and perish” indicated that over-consumption of natural resources recklessly would lead to indebting the future generations. He had rightly reminded that the Earth had enough for human needs but not for human greed. Gandhiji’s ideas are relevant for protecting the environment and to preserve the carrying capacity of Mother Earth. Historically, the Indians regard the Earth as Dharti Mata (the Universal Mother) with her brood (Vasudhaiva-kutumbakam). Gandhiji coined the phrase – ‘Economy of nature’ in 1911, to express his sensitivity and profound understanding of human actions on the Earth.