 The study also provides new insights into agricultural practices across all the regions investigated, suggesting the value of direct stable isotope evidence from archaeological grains. In the case of South Indian wheat, barley and horsegram cultivation, the use of manure in agriculture can be seen as a factor that worked against the continued use of dung non-utilitarian rituals that produced ashmounds. Overall our results, while preliminary, highlight the role for stable isotopes from archaeological remains as evidence to support or develop hypotheses regarding practices of irrigation or manuring. Our results suggest that in Neolithic-Chalcolithic Odisha, rice was grown under rainfed conditions rather than in paddy fields at this early stage of agriculture in this region of India. This is in line with previous hy­ potheses about the spread of rice agriculture being facilitated through wet, conducive environments and not adaptations to new conditions. Fig. 2. Archaeobotanical and modern Δ13C and δ15N values colour-coded by taxon. The dotted lines labelled ‘L’, ‘W’, and ‘B’ represent the ‘poorly watered’ threshold for lentil, wheat and barley respectively, as determined by Wallace et al., (2013). The dotted lines labelled ‘D’ and ‘E’ indicate the average reference values obtained from the experi­ mentally charred modern Deccan and Eastern rice respectively that were analysed as part of this study. (For interpretation of the references to colour in this figure legend, the reader is referred to the Web version of this article.) A. Nayak et al. Journal of Archaeological Science 141 (2022) 105591 8 Fig. 3. Δ13C and δ15N values for each taxon separated into box plots by period. A. Nayak et al. Journal of Archaeological Science 141 (2022) 105591 9 However, the high amount of variability attests to the experimental nature of early farming communities in Neolithic-Chalcolithic Odisha. At Sanganakallu-Kupgal, the trend in the data hints at changing agri­ cultural strategies that are cogent with the changes observed in the landscape and material culture of South India. In the increasingly climatically tenuous post-ashmound phase, we see an innovative use of the vitrified ash as manure to facilitate the sedentary cultivation of crops in a semi-arid region. Lastly, at Early Historic Paithan, the crop stable isotope data shows intensified cultivation with an irrigation and manuring regime. These results call for comparative baseline studies on modern crops grown under known conditions, as well as increased iso­ topic sampling of archaeological plant remains. Declaration of competing interest None. Acknowledgements The authors are grateful to the Archaeological Survey of India, particularly to the erstwhile Director-General, Dr. Rakesh Tewari, for permission to export and analyse the samples mentioned in this study. AN, NB and PR are grateful to the Max Planck Society for funding and support.