 Benefits of preparing Ayurveda medicines from farm weeds There are numerous benefits involved in the process of making Ayurveda medicines out of farm weeds. Major benefits are summarised below. y Organic way of cultivation: Farm weeds are mostly removed using weedicides which adds up to the chemical pollution of the farm soil which can also affect mainstream crops in one way or another. Collecting weeds manually decreases usage of chemical weedicides which results in the decrease of chemical hazards done to the precious soil and food chain. y Cost effective: Farm weeds are generally removed by using weedicides or manually using labourers. Removing weeds from farm involves many costs like buying sprayers, chemical weedicides, labour costs, etc. By using weeds as medicinal source, farmers can cut these costs to half as there is no use of weedicides. This reduces burden on the pockets of farmers. y Extra source of income: Farmers can sell weed plant products to local buyers or pharmacies and generate extra income. Farmers can also process the weeds and start selling locally. This will generate significant income which will aid to farmers mainstream cultivation. Some weeds like Shankhavali and Punarnava are high in demand and draw more money in the market. y Less labour intensive: Farm weeds grow out on their own. No one has to buy seeds and sow them to grow. This means, it is going to grow continuously on its own. So, farmers simply have to collect the weeds and process them before selling, which involve less labour compared to other crop cultivation. y Way to entrepreneurship: Young and enthusiastic people of farming community can go further by establishing small processing units and produce organic Ayurvedic products which can be exported to other countries as well. This is fairly possible for the farmers having large land holdings or group of farmers coming together for the same. Once the setup is established, it can go a long and profitable way. y Aid to the economy: Countries economic welfare mainly depends upon the exports and exporting locally prepared organic ayurveda medicines can boost the economy of the state and nation. y Lesser burden to growing economy: Managing weeds can incur great load on the economy on larger scale and holds huge burden on the governments to import certain heavy metals, chemicals and technologies to produce weedicides. This scenario could be changed by using weeds for Ayurveda medicines. y Lesser dependency on Allopathic drugs: Local availability of high quality-organic Ayurvedic products and marketing will lead to decline in the usage of allopathic medicines. y Increase in awareness and knowledge: The whole process involves basic identification skills and knowledge of collecting weeds and their uses as Ayurveda medicines. This will encourage the farmers to gain knowledge by reading related materials or attending training programmes.