 (3) His machine saves not only seed and fertilizer but also supports optimum growth of seedlings. Keywords: seed, fertilizer, drill, roots, single operation, box Shri Amrutbhai Agrawat of Junagadh district in Gujarat conceived the idea of a bullock cart similar to a municipal dumping truck with a hydraulic system for lifting the body. In such a system, the body of the cart tilts gradually so that the compost falls directly into the furrows uniformly. The cart has four Shri Amrutbhai Agrawat, Pikhor, Malia - Hatina, Junagadh (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator wheels and a harness-rotating device that enables the bullocks to negotiate sharp bends easily. It is available in three different models of two wheels, three wheels and four wheels. The advantages are the followings: (1) The four-wheel base equalizes the load on the cart and thereby prevents the yoke gall formation on the neck of bullock. It also makes the cart a more stable and safe system of material transportation. (2) The non- hydraulic innovative tilting mechanism saves the task of unloading the material manually. (3) Improved brake system reduces the tension on bulls in slopy and hilly areas. (4) Its total iron body (except yoke and wheel) makes it more durable compared with traditional wooden carts. (4) The pneumatic wheel makes it easy to pull the cart. (5) Full turning mechanism provides high manoeuvrability, and increases the efficiency and performance of the cart while operating in congested areas. (6) It has adjustable outlet mechanism for unloading the material at the target place, directly. (7) It has improved designs of yoke and collars for animal comfort. (8) Aaruni reduces the drudgery of bullocks and hence makes the life of the animal easier. It is the only eco- friendly cart available in the market. (9) It can also be attached behind a tractor or any other vehicle as trailer for transportation of goods. (10) The design and dimensions of the cart can be modified as per local needs. (11) Aaruni cart can perform alternative functions in the industry like transportation of material due to its additional features. (12) NABARD has approved the unit cost of the cart, which will enable buyers to get loans Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2957 Multipurpose contraption from any scheduled bank. Key words: cart, sharp twin, yoke gall, transportation, unloading Aaruni Shri Mulubhai of Junagadh (Gujarat) has more practical knowledge in the area of farm machineries and is always trying to fabricate the implements or machine by himself rather than buying them from the market.