 The key strategies adopted by them is establishment of new commercial plants in tier 1 cities in collaboration between regional producers and global technology providers to meet the growing demand for exotic and organic foods. Further, over the next few years, the market might experience huge competition through major food chains across the globe, establishing their hydroponics farms in India. At commercial level, a project ‘Nature Fit’, Panchgaon, Manesar commissioned by the Haryana Department of Horticulture is supplying safe, chemical-free fruit and vegetables to residents of Delhi and Gurugram, and encouraging a new generation of urban farmers in India. Indo-Israel Centre of Excellence Insect-proof net house for low spray production of vegetables Soilless vegetable production for catering urban demands March–April 2023 43 for Vegetables, Gharaunda, Haryana and Uttarang, Uttar Pradesh are also imparting training to interested farmers on hydroponic farming. Besides, several start-ups like Delhi-based Khetify, Hyderabad-based Homecrop, Mumbai-based iKheti, Bengaluru-based Greentechlife and Living Greens, Ahemdabad-based myBageecha, Urban Fate Farms (Mumbai, Bengaluru) are providing their services in urban areas for soilless production of crops at home. Likewise, other commercial start-ups such as Living Food Company, Bengaluru (specialized in Microgreen production), U-Farm Technologies, Mumbai (deals in customised modular farm for an individual apartment complex or for a supermarket) and Pindfresh, Chandigarh (manufactures the pipes, lights and all the other equipment for hydroponic plant) are also in fray. Vegetable grafting for protected cultivation Grafting is the union of two or more pieces of living plant tissue, which grow as a single unified plant. Grafting vegetable scion plant onto desirable rootstocks is an effective tool to mitigate targeted soil-borne diseases, edaphic stresses (moisture imbalances, salt stress) and enhancing yield and quality of vegetable. In India, researches on vegetable grafting to combat abiotic stresses, particularly moisture imbalance, are underway at ICAR- IIHR, Bengaluru; ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur and ICAR- IIVR, Varanasi in Solanaceous and Cucurbitaceous crops. NBPGR regional station, Thrissur, Kerala have done work on Momordica cochinchinensis. The female plants were grafted onto the male plants to increase its production. CSKHPKV, Palampur initiated work on grafting and identified more than 22 rootstocks of brinjal, chilli, tomato and cucurbits for importing resistance to bacterial wilt and nematodes. Amongst private sector, VNR Seed Private Limited and Takii Seed India Private Limited are producing grafted vegetable seedlings resistant to bacterial wilt for farmers. Feats of protected cultivation: IIVR’s intervention in empowering rural youths Quality planting material is the basic requirement for production of high value vegetables.