 Address inequalities in digital access, expanding access to affordable and reliable internet connectivity for households and education and training institutions, including through public partnerships. New areas of specialization in Database Technologies, Cloud Computing, Process Automation, Human Machine Interaction, Block Chain Platforms, Software Application Development, Geo informatics, Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning, e-commerce and social media specialty, Technical Leadership and Architecture Experience be created in the agricultural universities in a phased manner. yy Empowering farm women Gender is an important dimension that influences opportunities to build and utilize capacities of youth in agriculture. Empowerment of farm women by ensuring equal access and opportunity will lead to a foundational transformation in India's rural economy, improving lives of millions. The challenges of reaching young women – who are frequently constrained by heavy household workloads, traditional customs and beliefs, and even constraints on their mobility in some societies – with education and training initiatives, are huge. yy Agricultural marketing The potential returns of capturing the opportunity to engage today’s young people in the challenge of raising agricultural production in terms of food security, poverty reduction, employment generation, as well as peace and political stability are enormous. E-commerce that directly connects producers to consumers is likely to be a new normal and is expected to induce private investment in Agri-tech start-ups connecting farmers directly to the consumers. These would bring primary processing facilities and branding closer to the farm-gate, provide a big push to rural industrialization, and compel value chain participants to comply with domestic and international food safety standards. Increasing use of tech-based solutions and e-markets would create a new vertically coordinated marketing system, driven by the institutions, such as contract farming, cooperatives, and farmer producer organizations (FPOs). Efficient market intelligence, tracking domestic and international demand and supply-side factors should be in place. There is need to tap the global market for surplus crop output, nutria- cereals, fruits and vegetables, industrial crop products, organic and medicinal crop outputs. 1Deputy Director General (Agricultural Education), ICAR and 2Principal Scientist, Agricultural Education Division, ICAR KAB-II, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Email: ddg.edu@icar.gov.in OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 15 I ndia with 1.41 billion people is the second most populous country in the world after China (1.452 billion) and is projected to surpass China soon and reach an estimated figure of 1.668 billion by 2050, as per the 2022 edition of United Nations’ World Population Prospects.