 (a) Technical coordination and monitoring ●Initiate, plan, coordinate and execute extension research to support and improve the technology application and dissemination. ●Prepare state-wise database on the profile of agricultural situation with focus on thrust areas and issues to be addressed. ●Prepare and monitor a need-based Capacity Development Plan for the staff of each KVK. ●Guide on development of Annual Action Plan by each KVK keeping in view the district-specific needs and thrust areas, national and state policies, and emerging issues in agriculture and allied sectors. ●Coordination linkage mechanism using for technology generation and delivery system involving all stakeholders. (Eg: consortium, convergence, public-private partnership and farmer-led innovation and market-led extension). ●Ensure execution of Annual Action plan through effective technical backstopping and field level monitoring by the Director of Extension of AUs as well as Scientists of the ZPD. ●Organize Annual Zonal Workshop for reviewing the progress report of each KVK in the Zone and suggest specific measures for improvement. ●Monitor the timely conduct of Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC) meetings and implementation of their recommendations. ●Ensure documentation of case studies, success stories and impact assessment of KVK activities. 102 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (b) Administrative and Financial ●Monitor timely filling up of all sanctioned positions by the host organizations and ensure that the selected staff work for a minimum period of five years. ●Monitor creation, utilization and maintenance of infrastructure facilities, so provided. ●Periodical verification of land records and asset registers. ●Prepare Plan Budget and accordingly Annual BE and RE at zonal level, get approval from the competent authority and release the fund only after obtaining necessary UC/AUC, to respective KVKs through concerned host Organization. ●Monitor proper utilization of funds, get periodical expenditure statements, examine the statements for errors, if any and take appropriate corrective measures as well as report to ICAR in the prescribed format. ●Granting permission for accounts of NGO-KVKs audited by Chartered Accountants who are empanelled with CAG/State Government concerned. ●Ensure timely release of fund to KVKs by the Host organizations. (e) Zonal Monitoring Committee ●A Zonal Level Monitoring Committee consisting of Eminent Scientist as Chairman to be constituted every three years. The committee will consist of one Scientist from ZPD and one Chief Scientist-cum-Head of awarded KVK, which has received national/zonal award. The Committee should visit 10% KVKs annually during the cropping season to review the progress and give its specific recommendations for improvement.