 The yellow plastic mulch has reflective properties, which interfere with the movement of white flies. Harvesting In greenhouse production of capsicum, fruits are harvested when they reach full colour and are still firm on the plant itself for marketing them to up market and getting very high price of the produce. When fruits are harvested a week after the harvestable green stage the fruits will turn gradually into colour, which is not desired. Green capsicum requires about 40-42 days developing from pollination to mature green fruit, a further 14-21 days are required to fully i.e. from green to red or yellow etc., depending upon the temperature. Best colour develops between 18 to 24oC whether the fruits are on the plants or in storage. Capsicum fruits must be harvested with a very sharp knife or scissors to get a smooth stem end appearance and so to minimize damage to other fruits. It is better to start harvesting of fruits early in the morning and to finish before the hottest hours of the day. It is most important that harvesting, handling and packaging should be done with greatest care because capsicum fruits are very prone to handling damage. Fruits will mature in flushes, certainly in beginning of the production. In peak periods frequent harvesting is needed coloured fruits once or twice a week and green fruits once per fortnight. Yield On an average capsicum varieties can produce 60-70 tonnes of coloured fruits and 100 to 120 tonnes of green fruits per hectare under greenhouse conditions. Although, yield directly depends upon the suitable variety, climate conditions and crop management for protected cultivation. Average weight of quality coloured fruits is 160 to 190 g/ fruit with mostly four lobes. Grading of fruits Capsicum fruits are graded according to colour of the fruit, size and shape of the fruit. A+ grade fruits are mostly four lobed, firm and bright in colour and their average Two leader system of pruning in capsicum Fertigation Fertigation is applicable after three weeks of transplanting when plant is established completely. During the initial vegetation phase, N: P: K:: 19: 19: 19 @ 300 g in 100 litre water should be applied at fortnightly interval for better leaves. The doses of fertilizers should be increased with the growth of plants, apply 50 kg nitrogen in form of neem coated urea, 10 kg DAP, and 10 kg MOP in 1,000 m2 area of polyhouse at 30 days of interval along with micronutrient. Avoid overuse and inadequate or imbalanced use of fertilizers. Capsicum has a superficial root system and is very susceptible to water stress, for this reason, it is recommended to irrigate frequently with small amounts of water. Water scarcity causes abortion of flowers resulting in fruits of poor quality. The requirement of water is higher during flowering and fructification than during the remaining vegetation period.