 • Coordinate network research in weed management in different agro-ecological regions. • Repository of information in weed science and act as a center for training in weed management. Activities • To develop economical, environment friendly and sustainable weed management technologies for crops, cropping system and non-crop situations. • To develop site specific and ergonomically designed precision weeding tools. • To study aquatic and problematic weeds and their management through conventional and biological methods. • To conduct risk analysis of major alien invasive weeds. • To assess the possible risk of herbicide residue hazards on environment and develop their mitigation techniques. 3. Salient achievements • Bio-control of aquatic weed -Water hyacinth • Management of Partheniumthrough Mexican beetle (Zygogrammabicolorata) • Biocontrol of aquatic weedSalviniamolesta • Management of isoproturon resistant Phalaris minor in wheat • Development of Weed Atlas • Management of Orobanche in mustard • Phytoremediation of polluted water through weeds • Weed management in Conservation Agriculture Releasing of bio-agent in Salvinia infested pond Complete control of Salvinia after 18 months 114 ICAR Institutes Profile 114 ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Central Agroforestry Research Institute Gwalior Road, Jhansi 284003 (Uttar Pradesh), India ii. Name of the Director: Dr. A. Arunachalam iii. Email address: director.cafri@icar.gov.in/ Phone No.: +91-510- 2730214 Mobile: 9212441230 2. Mandate and activities • Develop sustainable agroforestry (AF) practices for farms, marginal land and wastelands in different agroclimatic zones of India. • Coordinate network research for identifying AF technologies for inter-region. • Training in AF research for ecosystem analysis. • Transfer of AF technology in various agro climatic zones. Activities • Conducting basic, strategic, applied research on tree-crop interactions, soil fertility improvement and ecological productivity. • Analysis of ecosystem services and socioeconomics of AF systems • Development of location-specific AF interventions for livelihood security, value addition, watershed management, technology refinement and carbon sequestration • Framework for AF outreach and policy analysis 3. Salient achievements • Total area under AF in 15 agro-climatic zones has been estimated to be 28.427 million ha of the total geographical area. • Carbon sequestration potential of AF system existing on farmer’s field has been found as 0.35 t C ha-1 yr-1 and total carbon sequestration potential of 17 states has been found 8.13 million tonnes. • The total soil organic carbon (SOC) in AF system existing on farmer’s field varied from 46.59 to 104.84 t C ha-1 in 0-90 cm soil depth under different states. • Developed more than 80 AF technologies for different agro-climatic zones of the country for income augmentation and livelihood security of farmers.