 The single copy Efl1 gene (ID: 101489432; 5217 bp) is located in chromosome 5 and generates two isoforms during developmental stages in chickpea. Guide RNAs (gRNAs) were designed using CRISPOR (http://crispor. tefor.net/) and two guides (located in exon 1 and exon 2) were selected based on in vitro cleavage efficiency. gRNAs were cloned in binary vector p201N-Cas9 (Addgene#59175) using InFusion cloning (E1: Single CROP IMPROVEMENT Core rhizosphre microbiome of wheat growing in Indo- Gangetic Plains deciphered Wheat is widely cultivated in the Indo-Gangetic plains of India and forms the major staple food. India ranks second in terms of the production of wheat with an annual production of 109.59 million tonnes. Understanding microbial community structure in wheat rhizosphere and its association with soil properties can be an important base for developing strategies for microbial formulations. Plants depend on the rhizospheric microbiome for nutrient uptake, and environmental stress alleviation. A small subset of the rhizospheric microbiome called the core microbiota constitutes a specific set of microbial communities that are consistently associated with the plant species. To identify the core microbiota of wheat rhizosphere in the IGP of India, soil samples were collected from wheat rhizosphere from 15 sites in the middle IGP and eight sites from trans-IGP. Metagenomes were isolated and a shotgun whole metagenome sequence- based approach was used to identify the microbiota in the rhizosphere. A total of 186 taxa were identified as core microbiota of wheat rhizosphere in middle IGP, and 163 taxa were identified as core microbiota in trans-IGP. A total of 65 core taxa identified were present in both middle IGP and trans-IGP soil which can be considered as true core microbiota as they are prevalent across a wide area of the study sites. Identification of core taxa can narrow down the focus on these taxa for better management of wheat cultivation in IGP. Streptomyces, Pseudomonas, Nocardioides, Bradyrhizobium, Micromonospora, Burkholderia, Sorangium, Rhodococcus, Methylob- acterium, Cupriavidus, Conexibacter, Cellulomonas and Arthrobacter, are the top genera with relative abundance more than 0.5%, in both middle and tans IGP. β diversity analysis showed a distinct grouping pattern with respect to the sampling site under middle IGP, similarly a distinct grouping was observed with respect to the sampling and varietal differences under trans IGP. The β diversity analysis showed that microbial diversity is more affected by sampling sites and underlying soil properties as compared to the wheat varieties. Relative abundance of the most prominent core genera. guide and E2: Dual guide). Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated genetic transformation was attempted in two long duration genotypes of chickpea (cv. GNG ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 35 CROP IMPROVEMENT 2171 and IPC 2011-112) using re-constructed vectors independently. Independent chickpea lines (ca.