 Overall, no-till cultivation enhances land-use and significantly boosts productivity while addressing moisture related challenges for farmers in the region. Diversification/intensification of maize fallow land: In the North eastern Himalayan region of India, maize is the second most important crop, next to the rice and is mostly grown under rainfed hilly upland conditions. Maize is sown in the pre-kharif season starting from February to mid-March after which the field is generally left vacant as a result of excessive soil moisture causing waterlogged situation during the sowing time, and water scarce condition at later stages of crop development. In some areas, it is grown in kharif season, however due to unavailability of moisture in the post kharif season, the field is left vacant. Hence, there is a need to diversify maize based cropping system to enhance the profitability and productivity of the hill agriculture. Some of the novel approaches for diversification includes cultivation of short duration pulses like black gram, pea and rajmah in the cropping system along with maize in rainfed areas to increase the cropping intensity. Additionally, growing these crops with no-till technology helps farmers in timely sowing, saving in input resources. Short-duration variety of rajmah can be grown in a maize-fallow rotation under rainfed conditions as it can tolerate initial moisture stress conditions arising in winter season thus increasing the overall cropping intensity after maize harvest. Maize based sequential cropping as maize- pea, maize-rapeseed & mustard, maize-lentil, maize– lathyrus, maize-vegetables, maize-beans or maize based intercropping as maize+groundnut, maize+ricebean and maize+mung bean/urd bean should be promoted in this region. Agronomy for jhum improvement: Shifting cultivation, or 'jhuming,' occupies around 0.76 million hectares in the North eastern hill region of India. To enhance the sustainability and income of jhum farmers, some key strategies like adoption of high- yielding varieties, and promotion of improved soil Indian Farming 91 January 2025 fertility management can be adopted. The soil health can be maintained by extending the cropping periods, rather than frequently shifting the site. Land should be allocated such that the upland one-third portions gets utilized for traditional forests, the midland third for growing erosion-tolerant crops (cowpea, rice bean, soybean, groundnut), and the lowland one-third for growing crops like rice, maize, vegetables, and spices. Additionally, contour cultivation and bund farming with Tephrosia further reduces the soil erosion. Enhancing cropping intensity through raised and sunken bed systems: The permanent raised and sunken bed (RSB) system followed in the lowland rice areas of this region emerges as a transformative agricultural approach. This innovative system improves the production and productivity of vegetables and cereals while significantly enhancing cropping intensity.