 (b) Property owned by the Society which is no longer required by the Society may be dis- posed off by the Director-General provided that disposal of immovable property, shall be made with the prior approval of the Govern- ing Body keeping in view the instructions of the Government of India issued in this re- spect from time to time. Legal proceedings, 13. The Secretary shall have the power to file and compromise etc. defend suits or other proceedings by or against the Society and to compromise, settle or refer to arbitration any dispute relating to the Society. Investment of funds 14. (a) The funds of the Society may be invested in such manner as may be prescribed by the Government of India. All investments of the funds of the Society shall be made in the name of the Society. (b) All purchases, sales or alterations of invest- ments shall be affected on the authority of the Director-General and all contracts, trans- fer deeds or other documents necessary for purchasing, selling or altering the invest- ments of the Society's funds shall be executed by the Secretary or any other Of- ficer authorised by the Secretary. 41 (c) The scripts/securities shall remain in personal charge of the Secretary or any other officer so authorised by him for safe custody and shall be verified once in six months with the Register of Securities maintained. A certificate of verification will be recorded in the Register by the concerned officers of the Society. Drawal of Funds— 15. (a) Funds of the Society shall be kept withdrawn Procedure and powers in the manner laid down in Rule 75. Cheque Books shall remain in personal custody of an officer of the Society authorised by the Secretary in this behalf. (b) The Secretary and such other officers of the Society, as may be authorised, shall be allowed to draw and keep at their disposal permanent advances considered necessary from time to time to meet petty expenses. A permanent advance shall be recouped as and when required. B. ACCOUNTS AND AUDIT Forms for maintenance 16. The accounts of the Society shall be maintained in of Accounts such form as may be prescribed in this respect in the Regulations to be framed hereinafter under these Bye-laws. Internal Audit 17. (a) The Financial Adviser or any other Officer appointed for the purpose shall apply a check of the nature of pre-audit to payments made from the funds of the Society. Necessary Audit Registers and other Registers as required for the purpose of such audit, shall be maintained in the forms prescribed in this behalf in the Regulations. The forms of accounts and their maintenance shall be approved by the Government of India with the concurrence of the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. (b) The Financial Adviser or any other Officer appointed for the purpose shall cause periodical internal audit of the accounts of the various Institutes and of the Headquarters of the Society and take necessary action on the checks so exercised. Duties of Accounts 18.