 31 Recommendations (e) Recognition ●The personnel working in KVKs should get proper recognition. Therefore, performance- linked support and incentives are to be provided to KVKs. ●Staff working in the remote KVKs should be encouraged through special incentives in the form of capacity development. 4.5.2 Procedures for purchase and construction ICAR provides fund for the implementation of KVK scheme through the ZPDs. Funds are released to the KVKs through the respective host organizations based on the financial rules and procedure laid down by the Government of India (GoI) and ICAR from time to time in General Financial Rules (GFR 2005). The Committee recommends the following guidelines for financial procedures for effective implementation and utilization of KVK budget. (a) Purchase procedure ●The KVKs run by ICAR and NGOs should follow GFR 2005 of GoI for purchase. KVKs run by Agricultural Universities and State Departments should follow the purchase policy and procedure as per their respective University/State Government rules and regulations. ●KVKs should maintain purchase files/ledgers properly in respect of each significant purchase, which should give full information regarding indents, administrative approval of the competent authority, quotations, comparative statement of the quotations, selection of the offer, expenditure proposal on the basis of the selected offer, prior expenditure concurrence of the internal finance, sanction by the competent authority, issue of supply order, receipt of the articles, inspection and verification of the stores, installation and commissioning, stock entry certification, details of entries made in the assets register, preparation of bill for payment, details of payments made indicating cheque number, date and amount. ●KVKs should maintain assets register and stock register for assets and consumables/non- consumables, respectively. KVKS should maintain separate logbook in respect of each machinery/equipment, including vehicles. Physical verification of assets and consumables as well as internal audit should be conducted by ICAR or ZPDs from time to time on a random basis. A certificate of verification of stores with its results should be recorded on the list, inventory or account, as the case may be. After the prescribed life period of any non-consumable store or asset gets over, the Committee constituted by the competent authority may in the interest of the KVK declare the store as obsolete. Such stores should be written off after following due procedure for disposal by auction. (b) Execution of works ●KVK should strictly follow the procedure laid out by the ICAR for execution of works. ●Preparation of detailed design and estimates should precede any sanction for works. ●No work shall be undertaken before issue of administrative approval and expenditure sanction by the competent authority on the basis of estimates framed.