 CIP has supplied over 1200 accessions (advanced clones, parents and trues seed families for clonal selection) of diversified potato groups to India to develop new varieties through breeding or to be released as locally adapted varieties. Eight potato varieties have been developed and released by CPRI using CIP clone as one of the parents. Two of the processing varieties developed by using CIP as male parents are occupying over 100,000 ha area in country and has opened gates for processing industries. In 2017, a CIP clone 397065.28 was released in India as Kufri Lima. This is an early maturity, heat tolerant and virus resistant variety. Farmers are expected to get 20% higher yield and profit by planting one month earlier than other varieties. Early planting means farmers will be able to sell their produce at a premium price before market is flooded with harvest of other varieties. This variety is expected to cover over 100,000 ha area in the next few years. In collaboration with CTCRI, CIP has exchanged the elite germplasm that were procured from CIP-Lima. In 2018, CIP provided 20,000 orange flesh sweet International Potato Center (CIP) Fig. 14. Evaluation of CIP Clones under different Agro-Ecologies ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 53 potato true seeds to Central Tuber Crops Research Institute (CTCRI). So far, 480 hybrid clones have been selected for further evaluation (Fig. 14). Over the years, CIP has trained large number of Indian scientists in CIP-Lima or other regional centers on different innovative technologies such as aeroponic for seed production, marker assisted selection, study and exchange visit on GIS and crop modeling, TPS production technology and capacity building on developing biofortified varieties. In 2019, CIP supplied 118 advanced potato clones: 21 heat tolerant and low tropical viruses resistant, 57 bio-fortified tetraploid clone rich in iron and zinc, resistant to late blight and major viruses, and 40 diploid clones for breeding purpose to develop varieties preferred by farmers, processors and consumers. The materials are currently multiplied for multilocation testing. Our objective is to release five locally adapted table and processing quality varieties in the next 5-7 years. CIP clone 397006.18 was recommended for variety release for arid and semi-arid agro-ecologies of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh to grow potato in 25-30% less water without effecting tuber yield significantly (Fig. 15). It is short-duration variety with 20% dry matter and good keeping quality. Farmers will not have to invest for seed every year and can use for 2-3 generations as it is resistant to viruses. Another bio-fortified potato variety - Yusi Maap (CIP clone 3g27g7.22) was notified in India based on its release and notification in Bhutan. There are several other short-duration CIP clones with both biotic and abiotic resistance and high dry matter of years. CIP advance clone ‘304351.