 Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (MGMG) “Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav” programme initiated in August 2015 involves multi-disciplinary team of 3-4 scientists of ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities connect to a cluster of five villages for giving suitable advice to the farmers on technical and other related aspects through regular visits or telephone. Scientists also create awareness among farmers about climate change, other customized technologies, protective measures, Swachh Bharat Abhiyan and other issues of local and national importance. During such interface, scientists also involve local Panchayats and stakeholders including development departments, NGOs and private organizations. There is no provision of any budget in this program and the Institutes/ universities provide facilities from their own resources. More than 13000 villages have been covered under this programme. 9.2. Farmer FIRST Program (FFP) The Farmer FIRST programme initiated in 2016 aims at enriching Farmer-Scientist interface. It seeks to create linkages, technology adaptation and application, content mobilization, 169 partnership building through active partnership with the farmers. The program moves beyond the production and productivity issues and addresses the complex, diverse and risk prone realities of majority of the farmers through this interface. Farmer FIRST interventions are applied as a community experimentation both at household and village levels. The project was initiated at 52 centres involving 114 villages and 50000 farm families across 20 states in problem solving mode with the participation of farmers’ and scientists in broad areas such as NRM, crop, horticulture, animal husbandry and development of an institutional arrangement. The income of the households in these villages increased by 1.5 times in a span of three years. 10. Response to COVID 19 Pandemic ICAR responded to the challenges posed by COVID-19 Pandemic to farmers and farming sector across the country in tune with the policy directions and guidelines issued by the Government of India to all the States and UTs during the lockdowns. Taking note of the occurrence of the Corona-19 pandemic to coincide with critical farm operations in agriculture and allied sectors, ICAR through its countrywide network of KVKs supported by Agricultural Universities and ICAR research institutes alerted the farmers and stakeholders across the country on the pre- cautions, safety measures and need for social distancing while carrying out the time bound field operations such as harvesting, post-harvest processing, storage and marketing of grains, fruits, vegetables, eggs, meat and fish. ICAR issued national and state-specific advisory for farmers, translated into 15 regional languages and widely communicated through digital platforms. An e-book documenting the advisories at the national and state level was also released.