 Therefore, good management of the little available water is essential. In addition, the soil organic carbon (SOC) pool tends to decrease exponentially with temperature (Lal, 2002). Consequently, soils of drylands contain small amounts of carbon (between 1% and less than 0.5%) (Lal, 2002). The SOC pool of soils generally increases with the addition of biomass to soils when the pool has been de- pleted as a consequence of land uses (Poussart and Ardö, 2002). Soils in drylands are prone to degradation and de- sertification, which lead to dramatic reductions in the SOC pool. A good overview of the extent of land degradation in different dryland regions of the world is given by Dregne (2002). However, there are also some aspects of dryland soils that work in favour of carbon sequestration in arid regions. Dry soils are less likely to lose C than wet soils as lack of water limits soil mineralization and therefore the flux of C to the atmosphere. Consequently, the residence time of C in drylands soils is long, sometimes even longer than in forest soils. The issue of permanence of C seques- tered is an important one in the formulation of carbon se- questration strategies. Although the rate at which C can be sequestered in these regions is low, it may be cost-effec- tive, particularly taking into account all the side-benefits resulting for soil improvement and restoration. Soil-qual- ity improvement as a consequence of increased soil C will have an important social and economic impact on the live- lihood of people living in dryland areas. Moreover, given the large extent of drylands, there is a great potential for carbon sequestration. The potential offered by drylands to sequester C is large, not only because of the large extent, but because historically, soils in drylands have lost signifi- cant amounts of C and are far from saturation. Because of all of these characteristics, any strategy to re-establish soil organic matter in these regions is particularly interesting. There is a suite of recommended practices and land-use types that are recommended to increase both the uptake of C from the atmosphere and the duration of storage in soils. As for croplands, FAO (2001) differentiates practices that decrease carbon losses from the soil from those that in- crease organic matter inputs into the soil, and considers a combination of both. The first category includes reduced/ conservation/zero tillage, crop residue management, green manuring, cover crops, and integrated weed control (Singh et al., 2016; Ghosh et al., 2022). The second cat- egory is based on increases in biomass resulting from manure, compost, mulch farming, mineral fertilization and irrigation as well as improved crop-residue management and green manuring with leguminous species.