 After cooling, 15 ml of this Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  extract is added in 15 litres water and sprayed on whitefly-affected crop at an interval of 15 days, 3-4 times. Keywords: whitefly, Lantana camara, leaf extract 2418 Drum beating for control of grass hopper Grass hopper is an insect which attacks the crops and causes heavy losses. Farmers of Kalakot area of Rajouri district in Jammu & Kashmir, generally use their traditional practice of drum beating which drives away the grasshopper. This practice is fully effective in controlling the attack of grass hopper. Keywords: drum beating, grass hopper Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Use of flake for repelling birds from fields In cereal-crop growing areas of Ahmednagar district, farmers use flake by which small stone is thrown away to a particular distance. By hearing the noise of stones the birds causing damage to grains of the crops are scared and flee away from the fields. One man/woman can cover and watch an area of 0.4-0.6 ha. Keywords: bird watching, stone, noise Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of bunch of hair to control rats in field After combing, a bunch of hair is obtained by housewives. The tribal farmers of Nandurbar, Dhule and Ahmednagar districts use the hair to close the rat holes tightly. They are rabbed with the hair bunches and can not move. The rats are trapped in the hole and die due to starvation. Keywords: hair bunch, rat hole, starvation death Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Rat control in wheat by using flowers/ inflorescence of Glyricidia plant During rabi season there is much damage in wheat crop by rats. The tribal farmers of Dhule and Nandurbar districts of Maharashtra use flowers/ inflorescence of Glyridicia plant for control of the rats in wheat fields. The rat holes are searched and the holes are covered with flowers/inflorescence of Glyricidia. Due to covering of rat holes, the rat trouble is reduced considerably. It is believed that due to coverage of rat holes by flowers/inflorescence of Glyricidia Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  the rats migrate from wheat fields to somewhere else. Keywords: rat control, flower/ inflorescence, Glyricidia, rat hole, migration 2303 Use of waste light bars for repelling rats in berseem Rat is a damaging pest prevalent in berseem fields.