 Mean longevity of adult male and Internal makhana feeding Lesser grain borer (adult and grub) Soy and groundnut protein supplements Soy protein isolated through novel method Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 135 a prebiotic and probiotic (106–108 cfu/g) culture of lactobacillus. The ingredients have been optimized using response surface methodology (RSM) on the basis of the rheological properties and taste. The overall acceptability scores of the developed chocolates have been more than 7.5 on the hedonic scale. Marker fibres for the traceability of Naturally Coloured Cotton textiles: Globally, traceability in textile value chain has become a large concern as high profile incidents have come to light, demonstrating that many companies are unable to track where their products come from. Naturally Coloured Cotton (NCC) textiles fibre: Re-using the existing fibres and textiles, reduces the need for newly manufactured fibres. This saves water, energy, dyes and chemicals, which results into less pollution and reduces the carbon footprint. The fibres were extracted from pre-consumer cotton knitted fabric waste. The fibre extraction process was mechanical action such as cutting, shredding of fabrics and opening fibre. The fibres obtained were short, around less than 20 mm in length, and were converted into yarn by blending this recycled cotton fibre (RF) with virgin cotton (VC) fibre in different blend proportions such as 50RF/50VC, 65RF/35VC, 80RC/20VC, 90RC/10VC and 100%VC. Since recycled cotton fibres were short, it was difficult to spin 100% recycled fibre alone. It required a minimum of 10% of long fibres for transportation or holding the short fibres when transferred between the rollers during yarn formation. The CSP of 50RF/50VC and 90RC/10VC blended yarns were 1353 and 702 respectively. The single yarn strength of the 50RF/50VC and 90RC/10VC blended yarns was 7.5089 gf/tex and 3.20524 gf/tex respectively. The strength of yarn decreased with the increase of recycled cotton proportion. Hence, the blend proportion of 50RF/50VC provided better yarn properties. The yarn having 50% recycled fibres was more suitable for home textiles applications such as bed linen, furnishing fabrics, interior decoration accessories etc. Development of electrospun nanofiber-based zinc micronutrient sachet : Electrospun nanofiber-based micronutrient delivery matrix was developed to enhance the nutrient-use efficiency, as compared to bulk nutrient application. The needle electrospinning machine was used to produce zinc sulphate impregnated electrospun nanofibre mat. The 5 and 10 wt % zinc sulphate micronutrient was loaded with 10 wt % PVA (Polyvinyl alcohol) nanofiber. The optimised conditions for getting nutrient impregnated electrospun mat for zinc sulphate were the flow rate of 0.5 ml/h, spinneret to collector distance of 15 cm and 25 kV applied voltage.