 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Tobacco Calotropis 2303 Use of tobacco or Calotropis leaf juice to flow out foreign material from eye to animal Volume 2, supplement I, page 102 Tobacco and Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 139 Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Calotropis 2303 Use of leaf juice of Calotropis to cure eye diseases in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 103 Calotropis Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2506 Use of Leucas aspera leaves to cure lesions of foot-and- mouth disease Volume 2, supplement I, page 104 Leucas aspera Refer to ITK Code No. 126 (a) Contents UK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 2514 : Use of pig fat and green banana to treat foot-and-mouth disease : Volume 2, supplement I, page 104 : Banana Refer to ITK Code No. 1192 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2543 Use of neem-seed kernel and cinnamon for foot-and-mouth disease Volume 2, supplement I, page 104 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2577 Use of khand for spinal cord diseases and bronchitis in animals Volume 2, supplement I, page 107 Khand (Acorus calamus) Refer to ITK Code No. 138 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name : 2591 : Use of nagphani (Cuscuta reflexa) stem pulp, garlic, turmeric, Cuscuta loranthus stem, and roots of talmakhana to cure the langri disease of animals : Volume 2, supplement I, page 107 : Nagphani, garlic and turmeric : Nagphani: Akash bel Garlic: Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 : Nagphani: Cuscuta reflexa Roxb Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Active ingredients Geographical indications Nagphani: The plant is purgative and is used internally in protracted fever, retention of wind and indurations of liver. It is applied externally for itch; a decoction of plant is used as a wash for stones. The seeds are alterative and are used in purgative preparation. A cold infusion is given as a depurative. The seeds contain pigment amrbelin. The seeds are said to be tonic, diaphoretic and demulscent. Nagphani: A parasitic climber, common throughout India and Sri Lanka up to an altitude of 8,000 ft. sometimes completely covering bushes and trees. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages Amerbel English name Botanical name Active ingredients 2635 Use of decoction made from mehandi, roots of talmakhana, bark of palm tree and stem of amerbel (Cassythafiliformis) to cure the dewlop pain Volume 2, supplement I, page 108 Mehandi and amerbel Mehandi: Refer to ITK Code No.