 A herbaceous twining annual found almost all over India and in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Leaves trifolilate: leaflets broadly ovate, elliptic or rhomboid ovate, unequal at base; flowers in axillary, pendulous racemes, purple; pods curved, 5-10 cm x 1.5-1.8 cm, longitudinally ribbed, turgid, densely clothed with persistent pale brown or grey, irritant bristles; seeds black, 4-6 in a pod, ovoid (12 mm long), with funicular hilum. It is reported to be a pest of sal plantations in Bengal. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients 560 Control of intestinal worms through mamira {Thalictrum foliosum) roots Volume 2, page 393 Mamira Bengali: gurbiani; Hindi: pilazari, mamiri (root); Dogri: chaitra. Thalictrum foliosum DC In the form of a decoction, extract or powder, the root is much valued for the treatment of ophthalmia. The root is diuretic, aperient and purgative and as a bitter tonic during convalescence. It is also given for atonic dyspepsia. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications An erect rigid, perennial herb, up to 2.5 m tall, found in the temperate Himalayas from 1,500 m to 2,400 m in the Khasi hills between 1,200 and 1,800 m, and in Kashmir, Punjab, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh Bihar and Orissa; it has also been recorded from Vishakhapatnam district in Andhra Pradesh at an altitude of 1,000 m. Rootstock fibrous, yellowish brown, resembling liquorice, but extremely bitter, leaves pinnately decompound; leaflets 4-6 mm, sub-orbicular; flowers pale green or dingy purple, polygamous, in branched panicles; achenes 3.75 cm long, sharply ribbed. 687 Deworming in cattle with kamal (Mallotus philippensis) seed powder Volume 2, page 393 Kamal Assamese: Jorat, losan; Bengali: kamala; Gujarati: kapilo; Hindi: kamala, sindur, rohini; Kannada: kunkumadamara; Malayalam: manjana, kuramadakku; Marathi: shendri; Oriya: sinduri, kunkumo, kapilogundi; Tamil: kapli, kungumam, kurangumanjanatti; Telugu: kunkuma, sinduri, chendiramu. Kamala tree Mallotus philippensis Muell.Arg. It is used in external applications for parasitic affections of the skin, such as scabies, ringworm and herpes, and is reported to possess styptic properties. A shrub or a small, much-branched, evergreen tree with a short and often buttressed bole, found throughout India, occasionally ascending to 1,500 m in the outer Himalayas. Bark thin, grey, somewhat rough; leaves variable, broadly ovate to ovate-oblong or ovate-lanceolate, glabrous above, pubescent with numerous red glands beneath; flowers in spikes, dioeceous, small; capsules globose, 3-lobed, 3- valved, 0.75-1.25 cm diameter, densely covered with reddish brown glandular pubescence; seeds sub-globose, black, smooth, 4 mm diameter.