4: Consultative Meet of the Deans ADG (EPD) informed that the second consultative meeting of the Deans of AUs was hosted by SDAU, Dantiwada on 12-14 August, 2011. Generally, the response of the Deans had been too slow to make stay and transport arrangements. It was decided to discontinue the annual meet. Agenda 5.5: XI Agricultural Science Congress ADG (EPD) informed that the next Agricultural Science Congress will be hosted by OUAT, Bhubaneswar possibly in Jan., 2013. Suggestions for any theme or topic may be sent to NAAS, New Delhi or the convener Dr. D. P. Ray, Hon’ble VC, OUAT, Bhubaneswar. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.6: Feeding the nine billion population in 2050: Global Initiatives ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. The challenges of feeding nine billion population by the year 2050 are receiving global attention. Lead papers have been published by Nature and Science journals. FAO, Global Forum for Agricultural Research and World Economic Forum have brought out road map/strategy papers on this topic. ADG (EPD) sought to make a brief presentation on 17th Feb., 2012. Agenda 5.7: Human Resource Requirement: Way Forward ADG (EPD) mentioned that the NAIP consortium involving NAARM and the Institute for Applied Manpower Research has made a set of useful recommendations for meeting the skilled and qualified human resource needs in various sectors of agriculture. The salient recommendations and the concomitant strategies to meet these demands were highlighted and the universities were asked to prepare action plan to meet the manpower requirement in different sectors by 2020. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 6: Human Resource Development: Issues & Progress Agenda 6.1: Capacity development plan for the NARS faculty and staff Dr. K. Sharma, ADG (HRD) informed that as a follow up of the decision taken in the meeting of Vice- Chancellor of Agricultural Universities held on 22-23rd February, 2011, the committee under the chairmanship of Dr. D. P. Ray reviewed issues related to Designing a Faculty and Staff Capacity Building Model and identified key issues surrounding the problems associated with regular and active capacity development plan for the NARS faculty and staff and the possible measures including modalities, infrastructure and budget estimates to address them. The salient recommendations include establishment of a Faculty Development Centre at NAARM and the Centre for Faculty Excellence in AUs to institutionalize capacity building for academic excellence.