 Agroforestry as a malnutrition remedy in India: Few farm sites on poor tribal farmers’ fields in collaboration with partners were selected where Acacia mangium and Tectona grandis were planted as main agroforestry trees in village Kandupali, Badajorada Gram Panchayat, Block Talchar, Angul district. With a view to provide extra nutrient and vitamins to poor farmers in addition to financial gain trees species (Acacia mangium and Tectona grandis), short duration fruit crops (pineapple and papaya) and seasonal vegetables (brinjal-cowpea, okra-french bean and cowpea-potato) vegetable were intercropped. The present results indicate, brinjal –cowpea intercropped with teak + papaya recorded the highest net return of Rs. 196020/- and Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) 2.40. Farmers’ consumption of papaya from market purchase was nil as papaya are produced on their own farms and their consumption was also increased up to 18%. While the vegetable consumption on an average was 5% through purchasing from the market was increased to 30-35%. Rehabilitation of degraded lands through agroforestry systems: With the aim to select sites in some major ecologies of the country for rehabilitating the degraded land through agroforestry, reconnaissance of degraded lands were undertaken in Rajasthan. The preliminary survey revealed that a majority of the lands in these areas are found to be severely degraded and have very low biodiversity, plant density, soil fertility and productivity. Kalikhol, Singoli, Amartia, Kekadia and Barundini village clusters in Bhilwara district as representative sites were selected for characterizing and mapping land degradation. The vegetation, soil, hydrological parameters and land productivity of the area are being sampled and analysed. Accelerated implementation of National Agroforestry Mission: Worked with AF-Mission to convince states to de-notify agroforestry species from felling and transit regulations enhancing adoption of agroforestry. Few states are already in the process of de-notifying agroforestry tree species for planting to harvesting without any restriction. yy Supported states to develop their own agroforestry policy and mission which will accelerate the adoption of agroforestry. Uttar Pradesh has already constituted the committee for these purposes where ICRAF is one of the members. yy Dialogue and engagement with public and private sector to support agroforestry through CSR programs yy ICRAF-South Asia is a member of the Inter-Ministerial Committee to oversee the implementation of the National Agroforestry Policy, yy Contributes as a member of the Technical Group (Ministry of Agriculture) which supports Agroforestry Mission. Capacity development: Following capacity development activities were undertaken and successfully completed. yy A training on Soil health analysis using MIR Spectroscopy was organised at IISS, Bhopal.