 • Intercropping of medium duration compact erect types of pigeon pea was an ideal choice and remunerative for growing ragi in Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and coastal Andhra Pradesh. Whereas, short duration pigeon pea with medium duration finger millet was a better option for Orissa. • Inter cropping field bean in finger millet (1:8) was a remunerative practice for Karnataka, adjoining areas of Tamil Nadu. Whereas, cluster bean as an inter crop in finger millet was a better choice for coastal Andhra Pradesh and Orissa. • Strip cropping of finger millet 2/3rd and pulses 1/3rd is a better option at Bangalore, whereas inter cropping of finger millet and pigeon pea (8:2) is an alternative choice at coastal Andhra Pradesh, northern Bihar and parts of Tamil Nadu. • Inter cropping foxtail millet and redgram/cotton/vegetable cowpea is a remunerative system for Rayalaseema regions of Andhra Pradesh and northern Karnataka. • Pre emergence application of isoproturon @ 0.5 kg a.i./ha was found effective both in controlling weeds and enhancing productivity of foxtail millet. • Integrated nutrient supply of organics and inorganics (25 per cent each) along with bio fertilizer seed inoculation is a remunerative practice under low fertility conditions. • Niger – soybean – kodo or kodo – soybean – kodo are remunerative crop rotations for skeletal soils of Dindori. • Pre emergence application of Isoproturon @ 0.5 kg a.i./ha was found ideal and effective for maximizing productivity and weed control in kodo millet. • Inter cropping of little millet and cowpea either in 1:2 or 2:1 is profitable both at Kanke and Rewa centres. • Harvesting little millet at physiological maturity was found to minimise yield loss. • Sixty kilo gram nitrogen per hectare was found to be remunerative for maximizing productivity of proso millet under irrigated conditions. • Sowing during first fortnight of May was remunerative besides maintaining higher productivity in barnyard millet. • Pre emergence application of isoproturon @ 0.5 kg a.i./ha mixed with sand combined with two inter cultivations and one hand weeding was effective in providing good weed control and maintaining higher productivity. • Forty‐kilo gram nitrogen per hectare was found to be optimum and economical for barnyard millet. • Integrated nutrient supply of organics and inorganics (25 per cent each) along with bio fertilizer seed inoculation was a remunerative practice under low fertility conditions for barnyard millet. • Application of 3.75 t FYM/ha along with rock phosphate and gypsum gave comparable yields on par with recommended nutrient supply through organics and inorganics in barnyard millet. Crop Protection • Finger millet genotypes highly resistant to both neck and finger blast were identified. • In all the breeding and pathological studies through screening of germplasm accessions / lines, varieties were identified for further use in the crop improvement programmes.