 Cellular and viral oncogenes. Innate and adaptive immune system Cells and molecules involved in innate and adaptive immunity, antigens, antigenicity and immunogenicity. B and T cell epitopes, structure and function of antibody molecules. generation of antibody diversity, monoclonal antibodies, antibody engineering, antigen- antibody interactions, MHC molecules, antigen processing and presentation, activation and differentiation of B and T cells, B and T cell receptors, humoral and cell-mediated immune responses, primary and secondary immune modulation, the complement system, Toll-like receptors, cell- mediated effector functions, inflammation. 64 Unit 5: Molecular Biology and Recombinant DNA methods Basics of DNA, RNA and Proteins: Isolation and purification of RNA , DNA (genomic and plasmid) and proteins, different separation methods. Analysis of RNA, DNA and proteins by one and two dimensional gel electrophoresis, Isoelectric focusing gels. Gene manipulation: Molecular cloning of DNA or RNA fragments in bacterial and eukaryotic systems. Expression of recombinant proteins using bacterial, animal and plant vectors. Isolation of specific nucleic acid sequences. Generation of genomic and cDNA libraries in plasmid, phage, cosmid, BAC and YAC vectors. In vitro mutagenesis and deletion techniques, gene knock out in bacterial and eukaryotic organisms. Sequencing: Protein sequencing methods, detection of post translation modification of proteins. DNA sequencing methods, strategies for genome sequencing and Next Generation DNA sequencing principles. Gene expression: Methods for analysis of gene expression at RNA and protein level, large scale expression, such as micro array based techniques. DNA fingerprinting, RFLP, RAPD and AFLP techniques. Recombinant vaccine and vaccine based on pathogen genome. Unit 6: Animal Tissue Culture and Hybridoma Technology Development of cell (tissue) and organ culture techniques. Nutrient requirements of mammalian cells. Media for culturing cells. Growth supplements. Primary cultures. Established cell lines. Stationary, Roller and Suspension culture techniques. Large-scale production of cells using bioreactors, microcarriers and perfusion techniques. Characterisation and maintenance of cells, karyotyping, cryopreservation and revival. Detection of contaminants in cell cultures. Isolation and culture of lymphocytes. Application of cell and organ cultures. Micromanipulation of cells. Cell cloning. Cell fusion and Somatic cell hybrids. Principles and methods of hybridoma technology. Production and characterization of monoclonal antibodies. Unit 7: Embryo Transfer and Related Techniques Induction of superovulation. Embryo collection and evaluation. Embryo splitting. Embryo sexing. Embryo transfer. Advantages of embryo transfer in farm animals. In vitro fertilization. Embryo cloning. Nuclear transplantation. Production of transgenic animals and gene farming.