 Bending of branch will check the vegetative vigour and will keep the trees within allotted space, and encourages the production of fruit buds for the following growing season. Limb renewal: All scaffolds are renewed by complete removal if they become too large for the available space and become out of balance within the tree. Renewal cuts Use of cloth pins for branch alignment Use of bamboo pole as support system May–June 2021 13 are made using the standard method of using a “bevel cut” which encourages new shoots to form as replacement fruiting limbs. Tall Spindle differs from most other systems in that there are no permanent limbs within the tree. Girdling and notching: In notching, partial ringing of a branch above a dormant lateral bud is done to increase the flowering shoots and to induce spur from bud. In girdling, the 2-3 mm strip of bark is removed. Apples produce auxin–a plant growth hormone, in their growing apical meristems and shoot tips. It flows down inhibiting bud break for a distance below the growing shoot tip. A shallow cut into the cambium and phloem interrupts the flow of auxins to the dormant buds and these buds will start to grow. The best time to girdle or notch is in late February to the beginning of March when the sap is starting to flow. These are very effective methods to reduce the tendency towards blind wood. Girdling should be done approximately every foot of the trunk on second year trees. Summer pruning and pinching: This technique can be used to remove shoots that are growing too much. It can be performed by pinching the shoot apex to reduce shoot elongation. Pinching of shoots at 8-10 cm growth is also carried out to develop the fruiting spurs and to check the growth of branches. Clicking: Clicking is a method of tipping the branches of one-year-old wood where we will remove 3-5 Use of multiple wire as support system cm tip portion of such branch. This helps to minimize blind wood. In some varieties bending tends to result in 2-3 more nodes of blind wood. This blind wood not only reduces fruiting potential but also exposes the branch to sun and sunburn due to the fruit orientation and then clicking type pruning methods should be use to counter it. Spur pruning: It is a good way to rejuvenate trees that are heavy spur bearers such as Red Delicious and Empire. A tree will produce its highest quality fruit on spurs that are 2-5 years old. Any spur that is older than 5 years reduces reduced quality fruit and should be removed. Some spur removal with pruning should be done every year on trees older than five years. The age of a spur can be determined by its size. Spurs on the bottom of limbs should be removed, as they will never produce high quality fruit. Spur pruning initiates new shoot growth to produce new fruiting wood. Thinning of flower: As on an average, one spur bear 5 flowers, retain only 1-2 fruit after fruit set so that fruit could attain good size and quality.