 It is registered under OSSOPCA as seed producing agency for both rice and pulses; Rice seed production undertaken successfully in 73 ha (involving 145 women farmers); and pulse seed production in 25 ha involving 40 women farmers is on-going; 80 women farmers participated in Quality Rice seed production training in Kharif 2019, and training on pulse seed production is on- going for the FPC members. Quality Rice Seed Production training completed in Kharif 2019 in different districts of Odisha covering 120 women farmers. For crop insurance, process Transparency, insurance unit as village or individual plot, and market risk coverage are the most preferred attributes. Awareness program significantly improved the choice of crop insurance (from 15% to 78%). Classroom based training is better, but digital approach is also significantly improved insurance choice. 70% farmers preferred bundles product to stand alone insurance or STRV. Capacity Development Four scientists, two each from NRRI, Cuttack and two from IIRR were selected for four months training program at IRRI in the area selected by the ICAR institutes. The training covered IoT-based decision support systems for water management, Genome editing and mapping of grain nutritional properties. Rice Science for a Better World IRRI Team (Dr. Matthew Morell, DG IRRI; Dr Arvind Kumar, IRRI India Representative & Dr. Nafees Meah, IRRI S. Asia Representative) meets with Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra (DG, ICAR) Field Monitoring of Varietal Development at ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna Project Workshop on Development of multiple stress tolerance and DSR molecular breeding held at ISARC during 23-24 December 2019 63 IWMI works with a vision `a water-secure world’ and has its offices in 13 countries and a global network of scientists operating in more than 30 countries. For over three decades, IWMI’s research results have led to changes in water management that have contributed to social and economic development. With its headquarters in Colombo, Sri Lanka and offices in Delhi and Anand in India, IWMI has been working on the issues related to water and agriculture for over two decades in India. IWMI- TATA Water Policy Program (ITP), Anand has been addressing the issues in water institutions, policy, governance and management for close to about 20 years. ITP has operated as a ‘irrigation-agriculture- poverty’ think tank. Our researchers work in close collaboration with national and state governments and contribute to water resources planning, management, and policies. The international quality and relevance of IWMI research was acknowledged by the awards of the 2011 Crystal Drop Award and 2012 Stockholm Water Prize. IWMI’s mission is to provide water solutions for sustainable, climate-resilient development.