 The Gandhian concept of “Gram Swaraj” envisioned self-sufficient village republics. He considered the villages to stay independent of their neighbours for all their vital wants like food, clothing, sanitation, education etc., including other essential amenities required by a community, but yet stay interdependent for other needs, in which the village cannot attain self-sufficiency (Kumar 2002; Colucci-Gray and Camino 2016). In such cases, he added that, the village should produce more of what they can, so as to obtain in exchange, such items which cannot be produced locally (Gandhi 1959). Gandhiji visualized that the houses in villages must be built with locally available material, with adequate ventilation and a courtyard where vegetables could be grown for domestic consumption and maintain cattle. He emphasized on eco-friendly approach to conserve the natural resources. He visualized integration of production systems such as the agriculture surplus being used for the development of animal husbandry. The Farmers FIRST program of ICAR is a platform for science and technology-based agriculture-led village development. ICAR has implemented nation-wide programs through its network of KVKs and research institutes to promote homestead farming and integrated farming system (IFS) where in cropping is integrated with various animal components. Location- specific package of practices have been developed and are extensively disseminated to all the stakeholders through its extension functionaries. Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 136 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3.1. Farmer-centric Participatory Approach in Research Gandhiji’s early criticisms on science and technology stemmed from his core concern that the direction of research of the scientists was not people-centric, or more specifically that the villagers get neglected in the scheme of scientific experiments. The poor are greatly affected by fast changing environmental, social, and technological processes. The agricultural research centres need transformation as ‘learning centres’ with constant exposure to field realities and addressing the issues based on feedback knowledge. They should adhere to client-responsive scientific research handling multi-disciplinary problems and availing multiple sources of innovations (Prasad 2005). ICAR has extensively contributed to establishing greater connect with the villagers while planning and implementing its scientific research. It has a structural mechanism for research problem identification based on participatory rural appraisal techniques (PRA) where the villagers contribute to assessing the problems and prioritizing the solutions.