 Recently, cultivation of new generation fruits gained substantial momentum due to steadily increasing market demand and niche market. Currently, all the exotic fruits grown are for intrastate and interstate trade. Many of these new generation fruits got introduced into India especially from the South East Asian countries. It is primarily introduced and raised in quite a few homesteads of Kerala state. The avocado, mangosteen, rambutan and dragon fruit are now familiar and being grown commercially in India. Though it is early days for the abiu, longan and other exotic high value fruit crops, some are already in fruit market and consumer bowl. One such new crop under the lime light is ‘abiu’. Origin and distribution Abiu [Pouteria caimito (Ruiz & Pavon.) Radlk.] is an excellent and rare fruit of Sapotaceae family widely known as ‘Golden Star Apple’. It is tropical evergreen fruit tree originated in the Amazonian region of South America and was cultivated by Indian tribes about 10,000 Abiu – An emerging potential fruit for diversification in fruit orchard Pouteria caimito (Ruiz & Pavon.) Radlk. is commonly known as abiu, yellow star apple, yellow sapote and caimo etc., is an excellent and rare fruit of Sapotaceae family. This exotic fruit is delicious and nutritious that has drawn much attention not only because of its attractive bright golden yellow colour but also due to ease of cultivation. Abiu fruits are mostly preferred as table fruit and also being used in processing industry. This article discusses about the importance, nutritive value and strategies to diversify abiu in fruit orchard. G Karunakaran*, T R Rupa, M Arivalagan, P C Tripathi, T Sakthivel, T Ruchitha and K Abhilash Prospects years ago and vernacularly called abi or caimo. The abiu grows best in areas that have a year-round moist and warm climate. Abiu is spread to Venezuela, Peru, Ecuador, Trinidad, Brazil and South Asian countries. In India, abiu is distributed in southern part covering Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu as a backyard crop and also found in coffee plantation. Botanical description The tree is from medium to large size with a pyramidal or oval canopy. The flowers are borne singly or in clusters of 2–5 flowers in leaf axils on long, thin shoots. Flowers are small, hermaphrodite, 4 to 5 lobed, cylindrical and white to greenish. Fruit is botanically a berry with a smooth, leathery skin, containing irritant latex in immature fruits. The mature fruits are yellow in Field view of Abiu tree Closeup view of round fruits Closeup view of oval fruits May–June 2024 11 colour and its shape varies from ellipsoidal to spherical and may have a pointed end. Nutritional composition In India, there are two genotypic variants, viz., oval and round. Fruit is more attractive with bright yellow in colour with a sweet, caramel flavoured and creamy- white pulp. The oval shaped fruits has more number of seeds than round ones.