 Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 48 Brassica compestris Brown sarson H-Kali sarson The oil is used in India for cooking. It is also used for oil bath and it is believed to strengthen the skin and to keep it cool and healthy. With camphor it forms an efficacious embrocation in muscular-rheumatism, stiff neck etc. The oil cake is used for cattle, while tender leaves and shoots are released as pot-herb. The variety has many characters in common with toria. It has compressed stem with large rosette, bristly and hairy leaves. The species is highly self-sterile. It is grown all over Punjab. 49 Brassica nigra Black mustard H-Benarasirai M-Mohari T-Kadagu Tel-Avalu Kan-Sasive The oil is optically inactive and consists almost entirely of allyl- isothio-cynate. The oil is extremely powerful irritant owing to its volatility and penetrating power and is responsible for the painful nature of blister caused by mustard. It is also used in pleurisy and pneumonia. In India, the seeds of black mustard are used in pickles and curries. This species is highly self-sterile and is quite distinct from other Brassicas. It has been cultivated in Europe since thirteenth century. It appears comparatively recently into India, and grown to a limited extent in the Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Tamil Nadu. 50 Butea monosperma Flame of the forest H-Palash, Dhak B-Palas M-Palas G-Khakra Tel-Moduga T-Parasa Kan- Mutthuga Mal-Palas in samatha Fresh seeds are reported to contain proteolytic and lypolytic enzymes. The flower yields very fugitive yellow colouring matter. The leaves are much used throughout the country for making platters, cups, etc. Pyrocatechin is a powerful astringent and is given in many forms of chronic diarrhoea. The seed is valued as anthalmintic. Freshly powdered new seed given fairly good result against ascaris. Leaves are eaten by buffaloes and elephants. The dried leaves are used for beedi wrappers. The medium size, deciduous tree, with crooked trunk is 10 to 15 feet in height. Its bright-orange red flower bloom in great profusion at the beginning of the hot season. It is common through out India, Burma and Sri Lanka (up to 4000 feet). 51 Byttneria herbacea - - - It is a larged perennial herb, found in Orissa and Deccan. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 320 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 52 Caesalpinia bonducella Bonduc- nut H- Karanju B-Nata M-Gajaga T-Kazhichikay Tel- Gachchakaya Mal- Kazanchikkuru Kan-Gajagakayi The seeds are used as a substitute for marbles by children. In India it is used as a tonic and antipyretic. The leaves and seeds are used as external application for dispersing, inflammatory swelling. The leaves and bark are considered emmenagouge, febrifuge and anthelmintic.