 Biochemical composition and food value of various food grains (including cereals, pulses, oil seeds), fruits and vegetables. Biochemistry of fruit ripening, biochemical aspects of post-harvest technology, storage and preservation. Biochemical basis of quality improvement of food grains, vegetables and fruits. Antioxidants, nutraceuticals. Food toxins and anti-metabolites, food additives, storage proteins. Unit 7: Photosynthesis Photosynthesis – photosynthetic pigments, light reactions, photosystems. Photophosphorylation, dark reactions: C3, C4 and CAM pathways. Regulation of Rubisco. Chemisomotic coupling. Carbon cycle and its regulation, Ion fluxes and conformational changes during photosynthesis. Photorespiration. Relationship between photosynthesis, photorespiration and crop productivity. Chloroplasm morphology, structure and biochemical anatomy. Cytosolic and organelle interactions. Nature and exchange of metabolites through translocators. Seed reserve biosynthesis. Unit 8: Plant Metabolic Processes Uptake and metabolism of mineral nutrients in plants. Sulphur metabolism. Nitrogen cycle, nitrate and nitrite reduction, denitrification, symbiotic and non-symbiotic nitrogen fixation. Biochemical and physiological role of hydrogenase. Chemoautrotrophy in rhizobia and nitrifying bacteria. Cell cycle. Growth regulation in plants. Signal transduction and phytohormones. Molecular mechanisms of plant growth, hormone action. Role of oligosaccharides and polysaccharides in cellular metabolism. Metabolism of cyanogenic glycosides and glucosinolates. Unit 9: Plant Molecular Biology General organization of nuclear, mitochondrial and chloroplast genomes. Genomics and functional genomics. Tissue specific expression of genes. Molecular biology of various stresses – drought, salinity and temperature. Signal transduction and its molecular basis: molecular mechanism of plant hormone action. Structure, organization and regulation of nuclear genes. Genes involved in photosynthesis and nitrogen fixation. Regulation of chloroplast gene expression. Mitochondrial control of fertility. Molecular markers in plants and their uses. Unit 10: Plant Biotechnology/Genetic Engineering Totipotency, application of tissue culture for plant improvement, cryopreservation. Protoplasm fusion. General principles of gene cloning. Isolation and characterization of plant genes and promoters. Different methods of gene transfer –direct and vector mediated. Gene silencing. Site 32 directed mutagenesis. Molecular analysis of transformants. Potential applications of plant genetic engineering for crop improvement – insect-pest resistance (insect, viral, fungal and bacterial diseases). Abiotic stress tolerance, herbicide resistance, storage protein quality improvement, increasing shelf- life, oil quality. Biosafety and IPR issues. 3.