 yy Initiation of new programs / projects or dis-continue currents program / project as per directives of Standing Committee Frequency of Meeting yy Normally twice in a year. However, meeting shall be called any time as per requirement. 6.3 Implementation and Operational Management Committee (IOMC) Implementation and Operational Management Committee will be set up, which will provide overall support of ICT initiatives at Council / SMD / Institute levels. The preparation of IT related project would be responsibility of the IOMC. It is suggested that the IOMC doesn’t change frequently as it will bring stability and standardization in ICT practices at ICAR. This committee 21 ICT-Roadmap will have members representing all functional groups, including representatives from other related Government Departments or Ministries as per requirments. The composition of the committee will be as follow: Chairman: ADG (ICT). Co-Chairman: Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. Members: yy Leaders of all Functional Groups. yy Director (Finance). yy Director (Administration). yy Head (Computer Application), ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. yy Invited members as per requirement. yy Under Secretary, ICT Unit, Member Secretary. 6.3.1 Roles & responsibilities yy This committee will be implementing ICT initiatives which is duly approved by Steering Committee in the Council and manages its operations. yy The committee shall plan, design, implement, maintain and support the overall IT operations by implementing the IT framework to achieve the ICAR vision, mission and strategic goals. yy This committee's goal is to raise IT awareness and understanding among organizations & institutes, provide tools and guidance so that institutes would be able to meet IT requirements, expectations and IT risks could be mitigated. yy The committee will formulate and assign a change management plan, whenever necessary. The committee will devise a plan to sensitize, educate and train the users to ensure utmost adaptability of a system within ICAR. yy The committee will formulate the plan for overall sustainability, maintenance and upgradation of ICT infrastructure & framework. yy The committee will invoke necessary guidelines, procedures, directions and measures in case of a fall back, disaster to ensure organizational continuity (Organization Continuity Program). yy This committee will undertake regular (monthly) meetings to assess the health of all the IT initiatives taken place and provide relevant guidance to proceed. yy Liaison and collaborate with industry experts on emerging technologies. yy This committee will oversee all technology operations and evaluating them according to established goals. 22 ICT-Roadmap Data Centre at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi 6.4 Flow Chart of ICT: Levels of decisions making FG = Functional Group, SG=Sub-Group yy The implementation plan of ICT activities in ICAR will be taken up in phased manner.