 FLDs = Frontline demonstrations to promote the new wheat variety (HD-2967). 24 After matching, one farmer in the treatment group appears to be in the ‘‘out of common” support region. With matching, the number of treatment and control farmers is 19 and 573, respectively. Without matching, the number of treatment and control farmers is 20 and 573, respectively. 25 We surveyed 20 farmers in each village. 26 A socially connected farmer is a friend, neighbor, relative, or other known farmer with whom farmer i interacts. 27 Note that, to identify network beneﬁciaries as those farmers who beneﬁted from having primary beneﬁciaries of CBPs in their social network. D. Varshney, P.K. Joshi, A. Kumar et al. World Development 160 (2022) 106067 8 Panel B, presents the covariates after matching across treatment and control groups.28 The differences across treatment and control groups are all insigniﬁcant: age, age squared, gender, education, household size, caste, source of income, asset index, household head experience, soil color, source of irrigation, average land size at the village level, and plot location (near a road). The following speciﬁca- tion uses matching weights to obtain the matched difference-in- differences estimates: Yivdt ¼ a0 þ a1Timet þ a2 FLD N ð Þ ½ ivd þ a3ð½FLD N ð Þivd  TimetÞ þ Xd þ eivdt ð5Þ Other notations remain the same as in Eq. (1). FLD (N) takes a value of 1 if the farmer is a network beneﬁciary (but not of capacity-building programs) and 0 if the farmer resides in a non- frontline demonstration village. The coefﬁcient of interest, a3; is interpreted as the impact on network beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations and captures the effect of such demonstrations only. Finally, to identify the impact of capacity-building programs on network beneﬁciaries, we deﬁne the treatment group as primary beneﬁciaries of such programs but exclude farmers who also receive the beneﬁt of frontline demonstrations to remove the effect of such demonstrations. Again, the control group comprises farm- ers who reside in non-KVK villages and comprises 573 farmers for the reasons mentioned above. Table 4, Panel B, presents the covari- ates after matching across treatment and control groups.29 The dif- ferences across treatment and control groups are all insigniﬁcant: age, age squared, gender, education, household size, caste, source of income, asset index, household head experience, soil color, and source of irrigation. The following speciﬁcation uses matching weights to obtain the matched difference-in-differences estimates: Yivdt ¼ a0 þ a1Timet þ a2 CBP N ð Þ ½ ivd þ a3ð½CBP N ð Þivd  TimetÞ þ Xdt þ eivdt ð6Þ Other notations remain the same as in Eq. (1). CBP(N) takes a value of 1 if the farmer is a network beneﬁciary (but not of front- line demonstrations), and 0 if the farmer resides in a non-KVK vil- lage.