 Fifteen lentil varieties so far released by various national institutes using ICARDA genetic materials, adapted to north-west plain and hill regions, central zone and eastern Indian states. These varieties possess traits for phenological adaptation in varying agro-ecologies, resistance to an array of foliar and soil-borne diseases, farmer-preferred seed traits, and suitable to rice fallows and conservation agriculture. One of the ruling varieties, ‘Moitree’, a small-seeded with early maturity is popular among farmers of West Bengal, Assam, Tripura and Manipur. Some of the varieties like IPL-220, Moitree, Pusa Ageti are biofortified with iron (up to 113 ppm) and zinc (up to 59 ppm), and their cultivation and consumption are contributing to address micronutrient malnutrition, the ‘hidden-hunger’. The variety, ‘IPL-316’ is medium seeded (around 2.8 g/100seeds) is popular among farmers in Bundelkhand region. Recently released PDL-1 variety is adapted to saline and sodic soils has potential to grow in problematic soils. Besides, several promising lines have been developed which are in all India and station trials for future release. For Kabuli chickpea, ICARDA is targeting traits like bold seed (>45 gm/100-seeds), tall and erect type, frost tolerance and Ascochyta blight resistance. Seven Kabuli chickpea varieties have been released and are being cultivated by farmers. Barley improvement program is addressing feed, food, dual purpose and for malt quality and IIWBR is the main collaborating partner. Eleven barley varieties jointly developed and released for cultivation mainly in Uttarakhand, Himachal, Punjab and Rajasthan states. India faces about 35% green fodder deficit and spineless cactus can be a potential alternative feed resource. ICARDA introduced 67 varieties in India from exotic sources (Brazil and Italy). Initial adaptation trials revealed that 12 varieties are well-adapted to Indian environmental conditions. ICARDA is working with IGFRI, CAZRI, CSSRI, BAIF and at FLRP-Amlaha to multiply and up-scale the potential varieties. The varieties are palatable and feeding trial at IGFRI has recommended 25- 30% green chopped cactus in mixtures with cereal straw. In up-scaling, >189,000 cladodes are supplied to KVKs, district level foundation nurseries, Gram- Panchayat trials and farmers in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Gujarat and Maharashtra. ICARDA South Asia & China Regional Program, and its on-the-ground research platform in Madhya Pradesh is collaborating with ICAR institutions and SAUs through its three research programs at the Center level: Biodiversity and Crop Improvement, Resilient Agricultural Livelihoods Systems, and Water, Land and Ecosystems. Scientists of these programs are closely working with partner institutions.