 The Schedules Caste Sub-Plan (SCSP) is an umbrella strategy to ensure the flow of targeted financial and physical benefits from all the general sectors of development for the benefit of Scheduled Castes. This plan provides thrust to family-oriented schemes of economic development of SCs below the poverty line and provides the resources for filling the critical gaps and for providing missing vital inputs for effective implementation of the scheme. ICAR has been conducting the capacity building activity under these two special plans and also carrying out many development activities for the overall development of beneficiaries in different regions. Focus on equity and environment: The new strategy in NARS envisages the rationalization of resource allocation based on prioritized research portfolio and strengthening M&E of research programmes. It is aimed to institutionalize PME process through integration with the research management process at all levels in the NARS. The guiding principle is that PME process should be more objective, transparent and decentralized. The equity criteria represent the distributive effects of research investments. This measure should reflect the share of various sections of society (e.g. poor and non-poor; male and female; or urban and rural) in the total welfare gains. The indicators include the extent of poverty and female illiteracy in the primary domain(s) for which research is targeted. Environmental sustainability has been given due emphasis in the priority setting approach. The measures on environmental sustainability reflect the extent to which the use of technology affects the natural resource base. The productivity is sustained over time so that welfare gains from research accrue to society are maintained over time. The country’s research and education system has witnessed a sea change. The vast network of ICAR institutions has come up in a big way to address the commodity and region-specific research problems and foster linkages. All these institutions consider the status of natural resources like soil and water depletion and degradation, in the finalization of research programs. Gandhiji left us with his dream of equality. Government policies must necessarily focus on the vulnerable and marginalized sections of the society even if it requires making special provisions for such classes. Gandhiji’s philosophy emphasizes a lot on priority setting, based on the potential impact on the rural poor. The agro-ecosystems and production system-level priority setting deals with resource allocation across the systems, programs and projects, and it is best done by a multi-disciplinary team in close interaction with all stakeholders like farmers, NGOs, etc. Ideally, the macro priorities are derived from the micro priorities. ICAR has encouraged this approach of identification of research programs and linking them with funding. 4.