 Sowing of winter annuals for decorative and commercial purpose in the month of September -October. Advisory for Animal Husbandry October Month Cattles and Buffalo The month of October witnesses the onset of the winter season and in some areas, there are cold storms accompanied with rain. At such times the cattle and buffalo should be protected against illness caused due to cold weather. Make adequate arrangements to protect the animals from winter. Animal shed should be repaired before starting the winter season to protect from cold. Vaccinate the animals for Foot and Mouth Disease in this month. Start feeding of more roughages (like hay, straws, etc.) or forages to maintain the milk production and body heat of the dairy animals. Provide additional quantity of grains like maize, wheat, oats, or readily available whole grains to animals for meeting their energy requirements which generally increases during winters. For proper elimination of ammonia, livestock waste and other disease-causing pathogens, it is advisable to clean shed twice a day. It will also enhance ventilation in the shed. For better drainage of urine and other excretions, maintain proper alleys and drains. Wet floor may lead to diarrhea, fever, pneumonia, coccidiosis, hypothermia leading to death, etc. Young animals are at higher risk of developing disease due to wet floors. Clean animals with cloth during winters or simply give them grooming once a day to remove dirt and dust. Avoid the usage of water. If there is imminent need of using water ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 108 to clean animals, do it in the afternoon or hotter hours of the day. Clean animals immediately with cloth to prevent heat loss. Deworming of animals should be done at regular intervals. It is advisable to repeat deworming after 21 days of the first dose to prevent worms and their larvae from development. Mineral mixture and other supplements must be started to animal in this season. Sheep and Goat The floor should be non-slippery and be covered with hay, husk, straws, etc. for insulation. Slippery floors lead to fracture of long bones in goats. Provide enough space in shed for all goats to be together safely. Provide a bedding of about 2 to 4 inches to prevent heat loss due to conduction. Haystack beds are admired by goats as they are soft and warm. Lice and mites are increasingly prevalent during the winter months. High infestations can cause anemia, poor coat and skin quality. Use of permethrins and pyrethrins is advisable as de-lousing agents. Ivermectin with recommendation from veterinarian can be used. Sheep and goat farmers should take special care of the body condition score of the meat animals much before the onset of winters. Animals with better body condition score have better insulation and do not readily lose heat. During winters, it is paramount to keep the barn dry and regularly trim the hooves to avoid problems such as foot scald or foot rot.