 Benefits: Soil drenching of Trichoderma asperelloides 5R culture in the form of liquid / solid enhances the disease resistance of grapevines to various foliar and soil borne diseases. Its application in alternation with the sulfur remarkably reduces powdery mildew severity in grape vineyards and number of applications of fungicides. Trichoderma asperelloides 5R induces systemic resistance in vines and increases its tolerance to various plant pathogens. Long term application of Trichoderma asperelloides 5R in liquid / solid form leads to the reduction of overwintering inoculum in vineyards. As number of fungicide applications is minimized, consequently the grapes conform to ‘zero’ residue levels. Out of the 59 random samples analyzed in 2019-20, 53 conformed to zero residue levels and out of these 36 conformed to the EU standards 7. Contact: Director, ICAR – National Research Centre for Grapes, Pune- 413702 76 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Trichoderma afroharzianum (NAIMCC-F-01938) liquid formulation 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Trichoderma afroharzianum (NAIMCC-F-01938) liquid formulation is a liquid formulation which contains 5X108 spores/ ml. It helps in reducing the disease incidence on grapevines. 2. Target crops and delivery system: It is mainly used against the various diseases of grapevine. Inoculation can be done by foliar application. 3. Target agro-ecological zones: All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated for Grapes at multiple locations on farmers’ fields and vineyard of ICAR- NRC for grapes, Pune. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: No 6. Benefits: Foliar spray application of Trichoderma afroharzianum liquid formulation enhances the disease control in grapevines to various fungal diseases. Its spray application in alternation with the sulfur remarkably reduces powdery mildew severity in grape vineyards and number of applications of fungicides. Its need based foliar application along with soil drenching of Trichoderma asperelloides 5R minimizes the downy mildew incidence in vineyards. As number of fungicide applications is minimized, consequently the grapes conform to ‘zero’ residue levels. Out of the 59 random samples analyzed in 2019-20, 53 conformed to zero residue levels and out of these 36 conformed to the EU standards. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR – National Research Centre for Grapes, Pune- 413702 2 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R  

  Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 2020 Agricultural Education Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-II Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 www.icar.org.in Printed : June, 2020 By Dr. Neeraj Rana Dr. M. K. Agnihotri Dr. R. C.