 Besides, there are about 21,400 ha and 43,770 ha of natural lakes and man-made reservoirs in the Himalayan region while 85 ha and 4400 ha of respective resources present in the peninsular region. Our uplands harbor more 57 than 258 fish species including commercially important food fishes such as snow trout, garras, minor carps, grass carp, silver carps, tench, etc.; sports fishes such as salmons, trout, mahseers and mirror carps, and a wide variety of ornamental fishes. While there have been huge demands for fish and the food habit is changing in the upland region, fisheries and aquaculture development have not been promising due to slow fish growth and harsh environment. Schizothoracids and mahseer have been supporting the capture fisheries in the Himalayan system. In aquaculture, carps were cultured mostly in the mid-hill coldwaters and rainbow trout in the higher altitudes. However, ICAR through its research Institute ICAR- Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research (DCFR) at Bhimtal has been working hand in hand with people in developing the coldwater aquaculture and fisheries in this region. Besides the assessment of resources and fish faunal diversity, the Institute has developed/standardized technologies for breeding, seed production and grow-out culture of many important coldwater species such as golden and chocolate mahseer, garra, trout, etc. It has facilitated the expansion of the hill aquaculture through increased awareness, capacity building of the local community and fostering linkages. Presently, more than 75,000 tonnes of fish are being produced from the coldwater region and with the recent years’ impetus on coldwater aquaculture, the production scenario is changing fast in these regions. 2.5 Technology Development in Harvest and Post-Harvest Management The open-water fisheries, especially in coastal regions, have been providing needed employment and economic benefits to large sections of society. The livelihood of 4.5 million fishers on both east and west coast has been dependent on marine fisheries and related activities. The significant developments made in the improvement and modernization of boats, fishing gears and other equipment have not only helped the fishers in enhancing the fishing capacity and improving economic condition but also reducing their drudgery and life-threat to a great extent. The important harvest technologies development has been in the areas of boat building, mechanization of propulsion, the introduction of synthetic gear material, acoustic fish detection, satellite-based remote sensing, electronic navigation, on-board fish processing and preservation. With the popularization of mechanized fishing along with the motorization of artisanal crafts, there has been a great shift from the contribution by the artisanal sector to the mechanized sector.