 Specialized breeding programmes have resulted in Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 143 development of high yielding poultry strains, which have revolutionized the Indian poultry sector. Both the ICAR Institutes along with AICRP Centres have developed many high yielding backyard chicken varieties such as Vanaraja, Gramapriya, Srinidhi, Janapriya, Vanashree, CARI-Shyama, CARI-Nirbhik, CARI-UPCARI, CARI- HITCARI, Pratapdhan, Kamrupa, Narmadanidhi, Jharshim, Himsamridhi, etc., for enhancing backyard poultry production in the country. These high yielding chicken varieties lay 130-140 eggs and attain 1.5 kg body weight at 12-14 weeks of age and are best suited for hot and humid climate. CARI-Nirbheek has been enlisted by the FAO as a bird suitable for backyard poultry. Some of these varieties are enlisted as Low Input Technologies (LIT) under National Livestock Mission (NLM). The Institutes / AICRP Centres also developed commercial layer varieties such as Krishilayer, ILI-80, ILM-90, ILR-90 and Atulya (290-315 eggs) and commercial broiler like B-77, CARIBRO-Dhanraja, CARIBRO-Vishal, IBL-80, IBB- 83, Krishibro, etc. (~2 kg at 7 weeks), for intensive/semi-intensive poultry production in the country. Standardized package of practices developed by the institutes together with the high yielding strains have contributed to spectacular growth rates in layer, broiler and backyard poultry production. Furthermore, the turkey and Japanese quail backyard population in India has increased by ~49% and 564% in 2019 (20th Livestock Census) as compared to 2012 (19th Livestock Census). Genetic improvement and popularization of the diversified poultry species such as duck, Japanese quail, turkey, Guinea fowl has also been undertaken. Every year, both the ICAR Institutes/ AICRP and Megaseed project centres are supplying >30 lakhs improved chicken germplasm including parents to the different stakeholder. During last 10 years, ICAR has supplied more than 2.5 crores of backyard chicken germplasm from which around 2 lakhs farmers every year across the country are benefitted. The estimated profit by the improved low input technology birds was found to be Rs. 883.70 lakhs in last five years. 4. Genetic improvement of indigenous germplasm 4.1. Cattle The ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cattle (CIRC), Meerut has been implementing the Indigenous Breeds Project (IBP) under the All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Cattle for the conservation and genetic improvement of important indigenous cattle breeds of the country. Under the IBP, initially Hariana and Ongole breeds of cattle were undertaken for improvement. The genetic improvement of Ongole cattle was initiated in collaboration with Livestock Research Station at Lam under Shri Venketeshwara Veterinary University, Andhra Pradesh from 1988 to March 2014 and 73 bulls were evaluated through field progeny testing (FPT).