 58 Logo Name of the Institute Established year ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala 1947 ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, West Bengal 1947 ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala 1957 ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, Maharashtra 1961 ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 1983 ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneshwar, Odisha 1987 ICAR-Central Institute of Brackishwater Aquaculture, Chennai, Tamil Nadu 1987 ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand 1987 to better meet the demands that were emerging. It was reorganised, promoted to the status of a National Institute, and given the new name, Fishery Survey of India (FSI). yy State Fisheries Department The Madras Presidency played an important role in Human Resource Development (HRD) for fisheries research and management in the early years, as many of its scientists, went on to head State Fisheries Departments, National Fisheries Research and Development Institutions or hold responsible positions in the Department itself. The study carried out in the coastal waters, notably in the Gulf of Mannar where a great deal of effort was put into the Chank and pearl oyster fisheries, was reported in the Madras Fisheries Bulletin of the past. The contributions of T. Chari are notable among many. Mr. Wilson, the father of inland fisheries development in the south,established trout culture in Nilgiris and breeding of larvicidal fishes. The department had the distinction of establishing a hydrobiological station in Chetpet, Madras, in the mid-1940s. Tamil Nadu pioneered reservoir fisheries development. The departments of fisheries in other states also engaged in both research and development efforts. As the "Father of Mechanisation" of fishing boats in India, Dr S B Setna initiated research and development projects in the former Bombay State Presidency, which included the present-day Gujarat (excluding the former Saurashtra State), Maharashtra, and North Kanara districts. These projects were skilfully continued by C V Kulkarni and A G Kalawar. With S T Moses, C B Srivatsa, and K Chidambaram leading the Fisheries Department, Gujarat, including the former Saurashtra, saw a quick growth in its maritime industry. The majority of fish landings in India occur The Indian government established the Deep Sea Fishing Station, as a pilot project in 1946 to advance deep-sea fishing and increase food production. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 59 Central Inland Fisheries Research Station (CIFRI), 1959 Mangalore Barrackpore, 1947 CIFE today in the Gujarati fishing port of Veraval. T VR Pillai, who wrote about "The Fishes of Kodinar" and published it in the Journal of the Bombay Natural History Society, left Gujarat and continued to Calcutta, where he worked for the Center for Inland Fisheries Research for a while before joining the FAO.