 Vegetable production in particular is highly seasonal, exposing vegetable producers to significant price volatility and leading to substantial variability in farm income. Compared to vegetables, fruits have fewer post-harvest losses because they are transported in individual boxes with careful packaging. The existing evidence is mixed. On the one hand, government-organized marketing channels can benefit farmers through higher prices and less price volatility, as Mason, Jayne, and Myers (2015) showed for maize. Such market reforms have led to farmers receiving higher prices, resulting in higher production and facilitating the emergence of supermarkets, cooperatives, and processing zones (Reardon and Barrett, 2000). However, in other instances, such regulated markets are less popular among smallholders, especially those who produce fruit and vegetables. Farmers have been reported to consider them too restrictive, as they still allow buyers to exercise oligopsonistic market power when farmers have no alternative channel for selling their produce (Goyal, 2010; Rehman, Selvaraj, and Ibrahim, 2012). As a result, direct marketing practices, such as haats5 (in India) and wet markets, emerged in the last decade. In addition, private firms increasingly engage in supply chain management and contract farming, including Cargill India, Mahindra, Indian Tobacco Company’s e-Choupal, and Bharti (Chand, Kumar, and Dastagiri, 2019). None of those studies systematically differentiates between crops destined for local markets and those for export. 2.2. Background and legislative environment for agricultural marketing in India India ranks second in the world in producing fruits and vegetables after China and shows an increasing trend in the output and land devoted to their production (see Fig. 1). According to the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), India is the largest producer of pomegranate and okra and the second-largest producer of onions. Pomegranate accounts for a substantial proportion of fruits exported (Dastagiri et al., 2013). The Government of India (GoI) passed two significant pieces of legislation on agricultural marketing. First, the Agricultural Produce Marketing Act of 1963 supported smallholders by reducing dependence on market intermediaries (Krishnamurthy, 2020). Second, in the first decade of the 21st century, the GoI passed a series of domestic market reforms to improve marketing efficiency and attract local and foreign direct investments. Within this framework, the Agriculture Produce Marketing Regulation Act was created in 2003 to limit large retailers’ oligopsonistic market power and reduce gaps in the farm-to-retail price spread (GoI, 2017). The 2003 legislation was overseen by an expert panel titled the Agricultural Produce Market Committee (APMC). As a result, today each state in India regulates agricultural markets under the APMC Act.