 The Committee also reviewed the joint circular issued by the Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India on required linkage between Krishi Vigyan Kendra and Agricultural Technology Management Agency and has recommended some specific suggestions to delineate responsibilities for better coordination and convergence keeping in view the mandate and manpower of both institutions. 18. In the changing scenario of increased workload of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, the Committee recommended the areas of convergence between Krishi Vigyan Kendras and other Government schemes for judicious utilization of resources, manpower, sharing of knowledge and activities in order to serve better the farming community in the district. 19. The provisions of Indian Council of Agricultural Research be supplemented appropriately by the host organizations to ensure proper Krishi Vigyan Kendra infrastructure in such a way that the farm is a miniature of the agro-climatic situation of the district with major crops and enterprises. To inculcate ownership and sense of belongingness, effective involvement and investment in the activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras should come from the top leadership of host organization. Also there is a need to generate goodwill among the farming community towards the Krishi Vigyan Kendra by promoting interfaces in different blocks and villages of the district. xv Executive Summary 20. The Revolving Fund should be enhanced from current ` 1 lakh to ` 5 lakh for each Krishi Vigyan Kendra, so as to serve a single window system and assume specific responsibility and to also function as Agricultural Technology Information Centre. 21. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra staff under Non-Governmental Organizations should be treated on par with the Indian Council of Agricultural Research/State Agriculture Universities staff especially in respect of age limit, experience and other service requirements in order to overcome the existing restrictions in their lateral movement. This would help in strengthening and attracting talent to Non-Governmental Organization Krishi Vigyan Kendras, and provide equal opportunity to those working in Non-Governmental Organization Krishi Vigyan Kendras for career advancement. 22. Krishi Vigyan Kendras run by Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Non-Governmental Organizations should follow General Financial Rules (GFR) - 2005 of Government of India for purchase of consumables and non-consumables. Similarly, Krishi Vigyan Kendras run by State Agriculture Universities and State Departments should follow the purchase policy and procedure as per their respective University/State Government Rules and Regulations. Local Purchase Committee with 2-3 members may be constituted and the powers of urgent purchases of store items to a maximum extent of ` 20000 (Rupees twenty thousand only) at a time be delegated to Krishi Vigyan Kendra. 23.