 However, in cases relating to the science and technology based solutions that also require to pass through stringent regulatory compliances like bioefficacy studies, generation of toxicological data and other specific ecological, social or other forms of compliances, it is seen that often several entrepreneurial ventures that get initiated with high competitive edge lose out soon. In this context, instead of reinventing the wheel, the startups could benefit from obtaining a license from the pool of technologies that have been developed over years of research and experimentation by the publicly funded R&D institutions taking into account the various specific requirements into consideration. The S&T based entrepreneurial options often need to pass through different Indian Farming January 2020 57 TRL levels and need to be de risked prior to being scaled up. Initiatives by ICAR- Status and progress After adopting its own IP policy in 2006, ICAR has institutionalized technology transfer office through its three tier system of technology commercialization process effective since 2007 with Intellectual Property & Technology Management (IP&TM) Unit at the HQ as the top tier, Zonal technology Management Centres (ZTMCs) as the middle tier and Institute Technology Management Units (ITMUs) for effective technology transfer at 72 of the research institutions under its purview. The system has been effective in commercializing over 1600 technologies to potential entrepreneurs and help set up several successful agriculture-based enterprises across the country. In realization of the fact that some of these technology transfers often require scaling up and the licensees require handholding support both for scale up and to reach the market, ICAR initiated the Incubation activities through financial support from the World Bank funded National Agriculture Innovation Project (NAIP) since 2009. A total of around 22 incubation facilities have been initiated for effectively supporting the licensees through incubation process for a period of 18- 24 months. Subsequent to the NAIP, ICAR has initiated and continued the financial support for incubation facilities through the National Agricultural Innovation Fund (NAIF) since 2016 onwards. A total of 25 institutions under the ICAR have been successfully operating incubation facilities promoting individual entrepreneurs and MSME enterprises license and scale up technologies. Besides, some of these incubation facilities are also encouraging new ideas and help early stage innovations through R&D support for scale up. The fact that the technology-based incubation facility of ICAR promotes market ready technologies that fulfill statutory compliances and regulatory frameworks, makes it easy for budding entrepreneurs to head start their businesses with immediate effect.