 Keywords: eye treatment, mustard oil This treatment is being used by the people of village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Juice of 10-20 sirsa leaves is extracted and applied drop by drop to the animal's eyes twice daily. The eye infection is fully cured. Keywords: eye treatment, sirsa leaves This treatment is followed in district Jodhpur of western Rajasthan. One kg green fog (Calygonum polygonoides) leaf is taken and extract is prepared. About 100-200 ml extract is taken and cotton lint is dipped in it. It is kept over the eyes of animals and tied there. It also cures the effect of Calotropis allergy. Keywords: aankh mein phoola (cornea opacity), extract, fog (Calygonum polygonoides) leaves Animal keepers of village Kantharia say that mastitis in milch animals is more prevalent during rainy season. Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Ramauttar, S/o Shri Gargsen, Khata, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Hira Lai, S/o Shri Nukta Prasad, Gotia (Larpur). Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Iwar Dan, Retd. Captain, Chanchalwa, Utamber, Shergarh, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Shri Trilok, S/o Shri Kaloo ji Prajapati, and Shri Bheeka Ram Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3215 Treatment of mastitis in animals with wading plant 3216 Treatment with servan and chilar to cure swelling on the udders in cattle 3217 Cure of swelling of udders in cattle by using leaf of Luffa acutangula Udder and teats are affected. Swelling appears on the udder. Locally it is called as gor. There is discharge of blood or pus in one or all the four teats. Animal keepers of village Kantharia in Jhadol of district Udaipur in Rajasthan follow this treatment. The udders of affected animals are exposed to smoke of camel bone. The wood or cowdung cake is burnt in earthen pot and powder of camel bone is poured on the burning cowdung cake. It is kept under the udder. This is repeated for 2-3 days for cure. Keywords: mastitis, camel bone, burning wood, cowdung cake, smoke Mastitis (gor) is found in milch animals. With the infestation there is swelling in udder and animal ceases milk production. Sometimes there is pus or blood with the milk. Villagers of Jhadol area in district Udaipur in Rajasthan use roots of wading (a bush) for its treatment. About 1 foot long root of wading bush is taken and fed daily to the animal. Keywords: Mastitis (gor), swelling udder, wading bush, roots About 100 g leaf of servan (Gmelina arborea) and 100 g leaf of chilar (Caesalpinia decapetala) are crushed to make juice. About 50 ml juice extracted from this mixture is applied on the udders. This is done once in 3 days to cure swellings.