 Risk reduction: Crop diversification is very much responsive to climatic and biotic vagaries, particularly in fragile ecosystems by expanding locally adapted or introducing novel varieties and related production systems will help resource- poor farmers to improve their food security and income generation while also protecting the environment. Under sudden adverse weather conditions like erratic rainfall, drought, hail, incidence of insect and pest disease crop diversification through mixed cropping may be useful. Challenges of crop diversification Crop diversification in the country is taking the form of increased areas under commercial crops. The major problems and constraints in crop diversification are as follows: Suitability for some crops: The majority of cropped area in the country is completely dependent on rainfall therefore some crops may not be able to survive. Overuse of resources: Over-use of land and water resources, causing a negative impact on the environment and sustainability of agriculture. Animal husbandry is the second largest contributor to human-made Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions after fossil fuels and is a leading cause of deforestation, water and air pollution, and biodiversity loss. Lack of concept of crop diversification: Though there are hundreds of scientific papers in the field of agronomy on agricultural diversity such as crop rotation or intercropping, only a small percentage of these studies are about diversification as a concept. Lack of knowledge and training: in addition to weak research- extension-farmer linkages, trained human resources together with persistent and large-scale illiteracy amongst the farmers are major challenges to diversification. Future prospects Agriculture in the 21st century will increasingly be a farmer’s entrepreneurship, utilizing technology to maximize the profits on his land and investments. Technologies, viz. poly-bag nursery farming, micro-irrigation, aquaponics and urban farming, vertical farming, soil and water sensors, weather tracking, satellite imaging, pervasive automation, minichromosomal technology, decision support systems, governmental policies, geographic information system (GIS), application of information technology will lead crop diversification to primarily on economic considerations. There is a need to identify crops and varieties that may suit a range of environments and farmers’ preferences. Farmers must be constantly inspired and encouraged to explore crop diversification options to improve their sustainability, revenue and employment prospects. There is a need for increased investment in R&D and scaling of innovations linked to sustainable farming systems that are best suited to varying agro-ecologies and it will have a positive effects on income, employment, conservation and use of natural resources.