 Hatchlings of 8-12 mm length become free swimming and feed well on poultry egg yolk-suspension as first feeding. After 2-3 days, they accept wet formulated feed. ŠŠ With good water quality management and efficient water filtration system, survivals of 70- 80% are achieved from spawn to fry stage. ŠŠ The breeding technology is being promoted in north Himalayan states. Compiled by: Dr S.G.S. Zaidi and Dr D. Sarma More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, U.K. Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in 19 Compiled by: Dr Suresh Chandra, Dr N.N. Pandey and Dr A.K. Giri More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in Snow Trout Schizothorax richardsonii (Gray, 1832) ŠŠ Snow trout is an important coldwater fish found in upland streams of Jammu and Kashmir, Uttarakhand, Assam, Sikkim and Nagaland. ŠŠ Attains maturity in three years. Breeds twice in a year, during February-May and August- October, in flowing waters. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinguishable on maturity. Mature males are slender in shape, have large number of nuptial tubercles on the snout, faint yellowish, reddish fins, pectoral fins rough and oozes white-milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ The females are characterized by soft pectoral fins, and pinkish soft and distended belly. Fully mature female releases orange and sticky eggs on pressing the abdomen. ŠŠ Fecundity is low, about 16,000-18,000 eggs/kg female body weight. ŠŠ For captive breeding, brooders are raised in concrete tanks, provided with bed of fine pebbles and gravel, and maintenance of continuous water flow. ŠŠ Mass breeding is undertaken during August-October. Female brooders in size range of >70- 80 g and males >40-50 g are selected in 1:4. ŠŠ Dry method of stripping is undertaken in dark conditions and eggs are mixed with milt of 3-4 male fishes and washed properly. Good quality eggs are uniform in size with yellowish- orange tinge. Fertilization rate remains at 35-60%. ŠŠ For hatching, the eggs are kept in perforated trays receiving clear and well oxygenated water from a stream. Eggs hatch in 5-7 days at water temperature of 17-21°C with hatching levels of 60-75%. Yolk-sac is absorbed in 84-168 h, and sac-fry are 7.5-9.0 mm in length. Sac-fry develop to swim-up fry with survival levels of 30-45%. ŠŠ The Swim-up fry are further reared in indoor flow-through trays for 60 days @ 1,000-2,000 nos/m2 with a water flow of 3-4 l/m for getting advance fry. 20 Magur Clarias magur (Linnaeus, 1758) ŠŠ Magur is widely distributed in Indian sub-continent. It is a popular air-breathing catfish fish having high food value owing to its medicinal importance and a suitable species for aquaculture diversification. ŠŠ Breeds in captive conditions but procurement of seed from wild is very difficult.