 This confirms that the establishment of rice in the Deccan required both watering and social readiness to invest the requisite labour (Fuller and Qin, 2009; Fuller et al., 2011). The data from the archaeological wheat and barley from Paithan further attest to agricultural management in the form of irrigation and manuring. The presence of both winter and summer crops at the site points towards double cropping. Therefore, the wheat and barley would have been cultivated in the rabi or post-monsoon, dry winter season. The δ13C results indicate preferential watering of wheat, while the barley is poorly watered. Barley is better adapted to arid environments and within the dry conditions of the north Deccan, it is apparent that the farmers at Paithan carefully managed and directed their water resources towards crops requiring more irrigation. Such management would have been possible only with an understanding of the crop water re­ quirements and control of resources to enable year-round agriculture in a semi-arid region. The extremely elevated δ15N values of the wheat and barley corroborate the intensity of manuring and, by extension, of la­ bour at this site. While elevated δ15N values can be a reflection of aridity, the stable carbon isotopes data from the site confirms the availability of well-watered fields. Moreover, comparison with modern data from similar, dry environments (Styring et al., 2016a, 2016b, 2017) demon­ strates that the extremely high δ15N values of the wheat and barley at this site are as a result of high levels of manuring. Therefore, the archaeological crop isotope data from Paithan bears testimony to the high input, highly managed agricultural practices during the Early Historic in the north Deccan. Section 6.2 Isotopic and cultural evidence of diversified dung use. Additionally, the horsegram data from the East Indian sites and Sanganakallu-Kupgal demonstrates the differences in agricultural management (Fig. 3). Horsegram is a summer monsoon crop that is highly drought resistant. While the δ13C values show that the horsegram from Sanganakallu-Kupgal and the East Indian sites grew under varied watering regimes, the δ15N values are higher for the former. There are two possible reasons for this: first, that the crops at Sanganakallu-Kupgal were manured much more; and/or secondly, that the elevated stable nitrogen values at Sanganakallu-Kupgal are the result of greater aridity. As a nitrogen-fixing plant, unmanaged horsegram has low δ15N values, usually 0–2‰ (e.g., (Treasure et al., 2016; Styring et al., 2017). The East Indian horsegram samples appear to have received little to no manuring. The horsegram data from Sanganakallu-Kupgal shows that the high δ15N and Δ13C throughout Ashmound and Post-Ashmound phases point to A. Nayak et al. Journal of Archaeological Science 141 (2022) 105591 7 high water availability and manuring (Figs. 4 and 5).