 The transfer system considers currently active transfer-cycle during which scientist (s) posted in an institute can avail the option for transfer. Live monitoring system has been incorporated to monitor the real-time status during active transfer-cycle. • Uniformity in nomenclature of Heads of Regional Stations/Regional Centres: All scientific positions having nomenclatures viz. Joint Director, Scientist/Officer-In-Charge of Regional Stations of an institute but are similar to Head of Regional Stations/Regional Centres and incumbents are selected by ASRB on the basis of model qualification prescribed for the position of Head of Division have been re-designated as Head of Regional Station/Centre as the case may be. The Office Order to this effect was issued on 12 April 2017. • Rationalization of score card system: A committee was constituted on the recommendation of the Governing Body and with approval of the competent authority to suggest modifications in the existing score card and make recommendations on other issues concerning selection to senior scientific positions in ICAR through ASRB. This committee has submitted its report giving specific recommendations which were placed before the 241 Governing body meeting and subsequently posted on ICAR website inviting specific comments. Based on the inputs received, the Score Card was further refined by a committee of senior officers under the Chairmanship of Director General, ICAR and has been finally approved by the President, ICAR Society for approval. The revised scorecard will bring more transparency and objectivity in selecting various senior level positions in ICAR. • Amendment in ARS Study Leave Regulations: In alignment with UGC Regulations, the ARS Study Leave Regulations, 1991 were notified vide Council’s letter No. 3-21/81-Per-IV dated 17.02.1992. Now on the recommendations of Committee on ARS, amendment in ARS Study Leave Regulations to incorporate relevant changes with respect to duration of study leave in alignment with extant UGC Regulations has been considered and approved by the Governing Body in its 239th meeting. Accordingly, ARS Study Leave Regulations, 1991 have been amended vide ICAR notification dated 26th May’2017 and posted on ICAR website. • Revision of guidelines for redeployment/transfer/ diversion/adjustment/up-gradation/re-designation of various positions in ICAR: The issue of redeployment/ transfer/ diversion/adjustment/up- gradation/re-designation of various positions in ICAR was deliberated upon by the Governing Body in its 239th meeting with reference to the relevant guidelines of the Ministry of Finance (MoF), and observed that the cases of redeployment/ transfer/ diversion/ adjustment/ up-gradation/re-designation of posts would amount to creation of new post with simultaneous abolition of adjusting post. Prior approval of MoF is required for the same as per prescribed ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 126 procedure.