 The role of investment in sustaining technology-led growth, supportive institutional mechanisms, emergence and development of entrepreneurial ecosystem, their establishments and governance changes are highlighted. The policy supports of the public and private institutions in reshaping and reforming the agriculture sector during the development process is portrayed. It summarizes the importance of technology commercialization, the role of intellectual property rights, the need for public-private partnerships, the role of institutional arrangements such as agri-startups and FPOs, and necessary support through higher research allocations for agriculture growth and sustainability. 1. Introduction Agriculture bears the prime responsibility of ensuring food and nutritional security in India. The share of agriculture in national output has declined from 53% in 1950-51 to 18% in 2019-20. It still provides livelihood to about half of the workforce. Literature suggests growth in agriculture has strong poverty-reducing impacts in India (Ravallion and Datt 1996; Thirtle et al. 2003), but the farmers earn relatively less income than the non- farm workers (Chand et al. 2017). Improving the income of the agricultural households, therefore, becomes a critical factor for reducing poverty and inequality in the country. Agriculture itself has transformed significantly after the independence and has transformed India as well from a food-deficit economy to a food surplus and net-exporting country. Early developments were initiated in Indian agriculture through the science-led onset of the green revolution during the 1960s, which was adequately supported by favorable public policies (Table 1). After achieving self-sufficiency in food grains, the sector is now on the path of commercialization. The recent development agenda has shifted from production enhancing strategies to income improvement strategies for farmers’ welfare. This paper 381 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem analyzes the growth trajectory of Indian agriculture and dissects the transition from subsistence farming towards the commercialized enterprise. In this milieu, the role and contributions of investment and policy change in agricultural development have been discussed. The paper is divided into three sections. The first section discusses trends and patterns in agricultural growth, public investment, diversification, and commercialization. Section two presents the price policies, market reforms, institutional development, and governance supports for agriculture. The third section discusses the role of property rights and partnerships in agricultural development in the country. New era of agricultural transformation led by promotion of FPOs and agri-startups has been discussed in the fourth section. Table 1.