 Every step is labour intensive and we need to spend a lot of time and energy on these steps. Sabour makana-1 variety holds significant potential, especially in waterlogged areas that have been historically overlooked and underutilized. By cultivating Sabour Makhana-1, farmers can reliaze from higher net returns without depleting natural resources. *Corresponding author email: pragya.bhadauria@icar.gov.in Harvesting of makhana seed Contribution of KVKs in State Policy Kerala • KVK Pattanamthitta has been declared as the State Resource Centre for Jackfruit value-addition based on the pilot programme on jackfruit based entrepreneurship promotion by the KVK • KVK Alapuzzha is the State Resource Centre for agro-processing and value-addition Lakshadweep • After Sikkim, Lakshadweep islands has been declared organic and the large area organic certification is done by the KVK Maharashtra • Farm pond has become a State Level Programme Bihar • 38 districts are now being covered with Climate Resilient Agriculture (CRA) policy • NARI has been integrated with the Nutri-garden along with Anganwadi programme (18000 centres) Jharkhand • Bora bandi technology for soil and water conservation has been undertaken by the Jharkhand Government to diversify rice-vegetable cropping system in ~500 villages West Bengal • Land shaping technology in Sunderbans increased cropping intensity to 270% and income upto Rs. 4 Lakhs/ha from Rs. 30 thousand. Technology was multiplied in 2000 hectares and attracted investment (Rs. 30 crores) from State Government Harvesting of makhana seed transforms a raw seed to a popped makhanaa. Initially, farmers sell the raw makhana seeds to processors at a price of approximately % 90-120/kg. The conversion ratio of one kilogram of seed to popped makhana is about 30-40%, which means that from one kilogram of raw seed, nearly 350-400g of popped makhana are obtained. The popped makhana is sold at a higher price, usually around & 250-400 per kilogram. Consequently, the value of the makhana is nearly doubled after it undergoes the transformation from seed to pop. Processing of pop Makhana pops are consumed in their raw form, but several companies in India are enhancing their appeal by adding value through the incorporation of various flavours such as onion, chili, pudina, cream, and other spices. These flavoured makhana pops undergo roasting and are then packaged in small packets similar to other snakes/chips, making them convenient for marketing and sale. Thus value addition allows the makhana pops to be marketed as a delightful and ready-to-eat snack option, making them increasingly popular among consumers. Grading and sorting Local wholesalers receive makhana from processors hailing from various regions, and this makhana is a mix of different pop sizes. The sorting process is carried out either manually or by using a makhana grader at the warehouses of the local wholesalers.