 Besides, EAgC and EAgT were variably stable, when exposed to various physicochemical conditions (high-end temperatures, protease enzymes, cationic salts, and pH). All the tested encapsulated leads appeared to be safe (secondary cell line-based MTT assay and commensal gut lactobacilli). In vivo antimicrobial efficacy of the identified leads exhibited increased survival rates and declined bacterial counts. The bacterial counts (E. coli and Salmonella) reduced significantly. Improved feed conversion ratio (FCR) was observed. ❑ icar annual report 2022-23 117 8. Fisheries Management Online data-portal for fisheries resource assessment: Developed a Web-GIS application for location-specific riverine fisheries management. It provides an interactive and user-friendly interface for customized information browsing and report generation to understand system dynamics. It contains environmental data of 300 sampling stations covering 20 major rivers of India. The developed portal also allows users to search, visualize, understand and analyze the customized spatio-temporal for the assessment and planning of the system. The portal’s database and customized reports will facilitate various researchers, planners and policymakers to make judicious planning/strategies for the betterment of fisheries resources. Environmental parameter search window Visualization of spatio-temporal data in GIS platform MCRV infected S. serrata displaying grey colour shell discolouration hepatopancreas. As mud crab fattening and farming activities mainly depend on wild seed collection, hence, it is advisable to screen the animals for MCRV by RT- PCR before stocking. Point-of-care diagnostic (POD) methods to detect cyprinid herpesvirus 2 in goldfish: Herpesviral haematopoietic necrosis disease (HVHND) is caused by cyprinid herpesvirus 2 (CyHV-2), which causes severe mortality in goldfish, Carassius auratus; crucian carp, Carassius carassius, and gibel/prussian carp, Carassius gibelio. A rapid and sensitive RPA (recombinase polymerase amplification) assay, coupled with lateral flow dipsticks (LFD) was developed by designing specialized RPA primer, LFA primers and probes. Among the various visualization methods for RPA amplicons, lateral flow dipstick (LFD) assay is better suited for point-of-care (POC) testing as it facilitates analysis of results with the naked eye. This assay could achieve sensitive diagnosis of CyHV-2 in goldfish within 20 min at 36°C with the satisfactory detection limit of 102 gene copies per reaction. This is the first report wherein major capsid protein (MCP) of CyHV-2 was targeted for RPA- LFD assay development. The assay did not show any cross reactivity with other viral pathogens like cyprinid herpesvirus 3 (CyHV-3), spring viraemia of carp virus (SVCV), infectious spleen and kidney necrosis virus (ISKNV) and viral nervous necrosis virus (VNNV). Furthermore, screening of CyHV-2 in CyHV-2 infected goldfish did not yield any false positive/negative results.