 It is expected that in the third year (2010–11) which will be the last year of the sub-scheme, a substantial higher amount will be made available for the sub-scheme so that the objective of the scheme could be realized. It was pointed out that some funds may be reallocated to meet out the objective of this important activity during this year itself. The modernization of farm is expected to give more resource generation. He requested that all universities should arrange to submit their Utilization Certificate for 2009–10 within April, 2010, as the new ICAR guidelines provide for revalidation of the unspent balance to be completed within the month of April of the next financial year. All AUs were also requested to provide details of the impact on production and productivity of different crops and on human resource development brought out through the utilization of the grant provided under this scheme. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 10.7: Central Instrumentation Lab ADG (EQR) informed that the Central Instrumentation Labs in many of the AUs are almost non-functional. Establishment of the Central Instrumentation Lab as a common facility was intended to avoid expenditure on purchase of equipments by different departments/laboratories individually so that the grant could be utilized for some other useful purposes. Revival of the Central Instrumentation Lab may be considered and in addition, a list of all equipments/facilities available in the lab may be hosted on the university website for knowledge of all possible users. It was proposed to include this facility as one of the quality criteria in the accreditation. (Action: All VCs) Agenda 10.8: Separate website of agricultural education It was informed by ADG (EQR) that the Education Division intends to develop a separate website of higher agricultural education like the “CRICOS” (Commonwealth Register of Institutions and Courses for Overseas Students) and “Postgrad UK”, the websites respectively, of Australian and UK education providers, which provide information about institutions, courses offered, and study mode etc. Input of all AUs will be required for making this website useful and successful. [Action: All VCs/ADG (EQR)] 26 Agenda 10.9: Venues for Agriculture Fest and Agriculture Sports ADG (EPD) presented the agenda. The last Agrifest has been organized by Sam Higginbottom Institute of Agricultural Technology and Sciences, Allahabad and the annual Agrisports is to be organized by Marathwada AU, Parbhani during 27–28 Feb 2010. The venues for the next year events have been confirmed and they are as follows: AgriSports : KAU, Thrissur AgriFest : AAU, Anand During succèding of year, AgriSports shall be held at PDKV, Akola and AgriFest at GBPUA&T, Pantnagar. [Action: ADG (EPD)/all VCs] Agenda 10.10: Proposal for Continuance of the project NISAGENET: IASRI, New Delhi The NISAGENET was executed at IASRI, New Delhi as Lead Center with 42 participating organizations imparting agricultural education in India.