 Impact of Natural Farming The results indicated a sharp and effective decline of the woolly apple aphid population in conventional farming (CF) while it also destroyed the population of parasitoid wasps, whereas in natural farming (NF) 2.96 number of woolly apple aphid colonies per twig (cottony masses clustered) after 7 days of treatment were recorded. Maximum population of parasitoid wasp (2.88) was observed in apple block of organic farming (OF) where Azadirachitin 0.03% as biopesticide was applied. Possible reason for the build-up of wasp parasitoid population is the availability of abundant host (4.48 number of woolly apple aphid colonies per twig) after 7 days of treatment (Table 2). Under natural faming, the killing, repellent and deterrent behaviour of local shrub was found effective against the woolly apple aphid population build-up and was found to maintain population below that which can cause economic losses in terms of crop yield. The possible reason for repellent behaviour regarding the parasitoid wasp is the odour of Jeevaamrit (cow urine) which is being regularly applied in the natural farming apple block and low availability of insect host colonies. The Economic Threshold Level (ETL) in woolly apple aphid is a mystery which is based on parameters that are changing all the time, damage or losses caused by a certain density cannot be predicted at all and often remain unknown. Farmers have to consider many other aspects of the crop (crop ecology, growth stage, natural enemies, weather conditions, etc.) and their own economic and social situation before they can make the right pest management decisions. The unfair approach of managing the sucking insect pests by synthetic insecticides in apple has dictated the necessity for evolving cost-effective, eco-friendly and safe pest management strategies without using any chemical toxicants. Fortification of cow urine with leaf extracts of local herb resulted in a decrease in the woolly apple aphid population with significantly equal yield over conventional farming. Hence it proved an eco-friendly alternative to hazardous pesticides. CONCLUSION In the present study, the natural farming system appears to be effective in suppressing woolly apple aphid population. The main component in the solution mixture was cow urine which upon fermentation releases ammonia and other gases which probably repel woolly apple aphid adults from colonisation. Other ingredients like tobacco also have insecticidal action of nicotine and other organic acids which is well reported by several scientists, garlic bulb extracts naturally rich in sulphur also reported as toxic to aphids while chilli with Capsaicin also acts as repellent against sucking pests. Use of the local shrub H. niger (Thuklang) in the form of Thuklanster was effective against sucking insect pests like woolly apple aphid in apple of Spiti Valley. Therefore, large-scale adoption of this farming will increase the net income of the farmers.