 • In 1985, Planning Commission in view of the national need to strengthen dryland agriculture research, the Project Directorate /Main centre, Hyderabad was up- graded to Central Research Institute or Dryland Ag- riculture (CRIDA) in April, 1985 to undertake basic and strategic research while adaptive research contin- ued with AICRPDA centres with coordinating cell at Hyderabad. Aligning AICRPDA research with national/states priori- ties in rainfed agriculture development and policy • 1973 - Drought Prone Area Programme (DPAP) • 1970s – ICAR Crop AICRPs-AICRPDA: Crop improve- ment research in developing drought tolerant varieties by various crop AICRPs. • 1974 - Integrated Dryland Development Project • 1977 - Desert Development Programme • 1982 - Special Programme on Integrated Watershed Management • 1984 – ICAR Model Watershed Progarmme - 30 model watersheds (500-1000 ha) in 13 states were assigned to AICRPDA for technological backstopping. • 1986 - With the success of model water- sheds, Government of India launched National Watershed Development Programmes in Rainfed Area (NWDPRA) in 15 states • 1987 - The performance of model watersheds came into sharp focus during drought period of 1987. The ICAR launched a flagship network project called the National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA, 2011), primarily to develop and promote cli- mate-resilient technologies in agriculture with a special focus on rainfed regions. The NICRA project has devel- oped several climate-resilient technologies which include climate resilient varieties of different crops, resilient inter- cropping systems, crop diversification with alternate crops, agro-forestry systems, in-situ moisture conserva- tion, farm pond, integrated framing systems, etc. The Gov- ernment is also implementing a scheme on rainfed area development under the National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture. The scheme focuses on integrated farming systems for enhancing productivity and minimising risks associated with climatic variability. Schemes such as Per Drop More Crop, Soil Health Card and Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana are also contributing to the improve- ment of dryland agriculture. Role of dryland farming in Indian Agriculture Dryland ecosystems are characterized by extreme vari- ability in rainfall, recurring but unpredictable droughts, high temperatures, and low soil fertility (Chary et al., 2022). Most of the world’s poor reside in these ecosys- tems. Indeed, dryland areas present significant constraints to intensive agriculture. Even as they are constrained by limited water and soil resources, optimizing these re- sources is often a matter of survival for dryland rural economies. Every continent contains dryland regions, but drylands are most extensive in Africa (nearly 13 million km2) and Asia (11 million km2) (White et al., 2002). The S40 DAS ET AL. [Vol.