 yy PPR: It is highly fatal disease and goats and sheep should be vaccinated with 1 ml sub/cut injection at the age 4months or older in mid neck region once in three years. yy Anthrax: Cow, buffalo, sheep, goats are vaccinated against Anthrax once annually preferable at the age of 4-6 months or more. ii. For Poultry: yy Ranikhet disease: Regular and periodic vaccination against Ranikhet disease with the help of veterinary expert. yy Duck Plague: 0.5 ml S/C (2ml vial of 200 doses) in wing web first dose at 6-8 weeks, booster at 12th weeks and annual vaccination thereafter. F. Advisories for fishery enterprises a. For fish pond management, month wise application schedule of lime, Urea, SSP and cow dung is to be followed. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 84 b. Stocking of carried over fish Seed (8 cm – 10 cm) at stocking density of 8000 – 10,000 nos. per hectare should be done. Catla, Rohu, Mrigal, Grass Carp, Common Carp, Silver carp are some common fish species for stocking c. Application of balance feed as per recommended amount should also be followed and periodic observation of growth rate of fish is needed. d. In flood affected areas, fish pond should be protected by putting net around the pond with the help of bamboo poles. *Farmers are advised to contact Krishi Vigyan Kendras of the district for detail technologies as well as for other advisories ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 85 Agricultural Advisories for the farmers of Arunachal Pradesh for Kharif season A) Crop Advisories for Kharif rice yy Paddy seedlings of 25-30 days old should be transplanted for better establishment of crop. yy Transplanting of HYV of Rice in mid hill range should be completed by 30th June. Delay in transplanting will affect reproductive phase and yield will be reduced significantly. yy In lower hill region, the transplanting of rice variety TTB- 404, CR-1, Ranjit, Swarna Sub-1 should be completed by 1 st week of the July. yy At the time of planting of the HYVs, half of Neem Coated urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and 1/4th amount of urea to be applied at tillering and rest at panicle initiation stage. (132 kg Urea, 125 kg SSP and 66 kg MOP per hectare) yy Remove the infested residue, stubbles, grass and weeds present around the bunds of the paddy nursery as well as from main field, since they act as a source for the infection of diseases like blast and brown spot. B. Crop advisories for other crops yy One deep ploughing followed by secondary tillage with cultivator is recommended to prepare a fine and well pulverised seed bed for direct seeding of finger millet. Apply FYM/ compost @ 5t /ha and incorporate well into soil. Sow the seeds in line with raw to raw spacing of 20 cm with seed rate of 10 kg /ha. yy Cultivation of soybean is highly suited for almost all districts of Arunachal Pradesh. High yielding varieties like Dsb – 19, Dsb -32, JS 355 etc may be selected. Seeds may be treated with Rhizobium culture.