 Potential yield in FLD; Realized yield is the yield in farmers field; Present status is the average yield at national level. Indian Farming 6 February 2024 post-emergence application at 20-25 DAS during kharif season after assuring the germination of weed. • Seed treatment with 5 ml of Imidacloprid (17.8 SL) per kg seed followed by usual plant growth promoting agent (PGPA) seed inoculation. • Control of thrips by spraying Imidachloprid (17.8 SL) dissolving 3 ml in 10 liters of water @ 600 to 800 liters of solutions. • Adoption of life saving irrigations in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. • Seed priming by soaking seeds for 6-8 hours in water (Chhattisgarh, Bundelkhand region, Bihar, West Bengal, Odisha and Assam). • Ridge planting of pigeonpea in high rainfall and low lying plain areas. Use of critical nutrients such as sulphur @ 20-25 Kg/ha. • Adoption of efficient and remunerative cropping systems viz. rice-wheat-mungbean, pigeonpea-wheat and maize / sorghum / pearl millet-chickpea / lentil. • Seed inoculation with efficient strains of Rhizobium and phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) @ 15-20 g/kg seed led to 10-15% increase in yield over un-inoculated control. • Raised bed planting for population management and ridge & furrow system to conserve and enhance water use efficiency in pigeonpea. • 100 kg DAP per ha along with basal application of sulphur @ 20 kg and zinc @15 kg/ha. Seed treatment of chickpea and lentil with Mo. • Seed treatment with Thiram + carbendazim (2:1) @ 3 g per kg of seed to ensure good plant stand. • Bio-control of soil borne diseases by use of Trichoderma + carboxin (4 + 1 g/kg seed) has been recommended. • Use of Pheromone traps (@ 4-5 traps/ha) for control of pod borer in chickpea and pigeonpea. Policy initiatives To make India self-sufficient in pulses production, availability of quality seed is one of the most crucial factors which ensures enhanced per unit yield of pulses in farmers’ fields. For augmenting the availability of quality seeds of pulses, the Department of Agriculture, Cooperation and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, has planned to improve availability of quality seeds of major pulse crops locally with financial support of more than ` 225 lakh through 150 Seed-Hubs across the country in ICAR Institutes/State Agricultural Universities/Central Agricultural Universities/Krishi Vigyan Kendras along with one more project ’Enhancing Breeder Seed Production for increasing Indigenous Production of Pulses in India‛ for making quality seeds available locally for most suitable varieties of different pulse crops in 2016-17. Since the inception of seed hub project more than 4.0 lakh quintal quality seeds has been produced and distributed to the farmers of the Country. *Corresponding author e-mail: diriipr.icar@gmail.com Table 6.