 Coriander should not be added to this dish, otherwise it may prove harmful for human health. This food is given to the nursing mother or the person who has travelled a long distance. Keywords: Iqffu chamthong, banana suckers, pseudostem Adi community of Pasighat area use a local fruit, called ellica (Terminalia chebula) in three ways, i.e. as local food, as spices and as medicine. Flowering and fruiting in ellica are completed up to October, and it is plucked from trees till the first week of November. After collecting, the fruits are dried in a local oven having three layers of iron mesh in vertical manner. The oven is used for drying because Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3627 Ethnic food of the Jhadol tribal area of Udaipur district in Rajasthan there rains and shady condition prevails all the time. In the first, second and third layers of iron mesh respectively fishes, ellica fruit and paddy grains are dried. After drying, ellica fruit is powdered and stored in bottles or bamboo pots. This powder is supplemented with fish as a spice, to diabetic patients to normalize the blood pressure. To prepare the dish, these fruits are semi-dried, boiled and then seeds are separated. It is cut into small pieces and again boiled with many of the local vegetables and salt is added. This dish is taken during winter season to avoid cough and cold. This fruit is effective up to 40-50% in diabetes and successful up to 50-60% in cold and cough. Keywords: ellica, spice, sugar, diabetes, blood pressure In Jhadol tribal area people prepare some of the food items, which are of unique in nature. Some of them are as follows: (a) Bokana pakodi: In the Jhadol area bokana appears as weed in maize fields. Villagers prepare bokana pakodi as special dish during rainy season. Leaves of young bokana plants are taken and washed. Slurry of chickpea flour @ 1 kg flour for 250 g bokana leaves is prepared. Edible oil is heated in open-mouth utensil (kadai). Each leaf coated with chickpea floor is put in heated oil. Leaves coated with gram flour take the shape of egg. It is consumed with spices. In gram floor slurry, spices to suit own taste are mixed. Keywords: bokana pakodi, bokana leaves Shri Trilok Prajapati, Kantharia, Jhadol. dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan); and Ms. Pana bail, W/o Shri Heera ba Kantharia. Jhadol (At present: near Kalaji- Goraji, Bhatji ki Wadi. Udaipur.