 yy Developed 30 new resilient technologies and demonstrated 68 climate resilient NRM technologies in 446 villages. yy Four New IFS models were developed. Genome edited Pusa Chickpea 4005 12 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 5. Chemical Free Agriculture Chemical free agriculture denotes the cultivation of crops without depending on chemical inputs such as fertilizers, pesticides, weedicides etc. Although fertilizer and pesticide consumption in India is much lower compared to the developed countries, the imbalance use in fertilizer usage and indiscriminate and unscientific application of pesticides are causing soil, water and environmental pollution. This necessitates to gradually convert the conventional agriculture towards organic or chemical free agriculture. In India, some of the agro-ecologies are organic by default. Targeting the areas, ICAR is continuously working to develop appropriate technologies and till now identified 104 crop varieties suitable for organic conditions and developed organic package of practices for 68 cropping systems involving 39 crops. Further, the Union Budget 2022 is also emphasized on chemical free farming by promoting it on farmers’ lands in 5-km wide corridors along the river Ganga. Some of the major achievements of ICAR during the year on chemical free agriculture are described below: yy Six organic farming packages were developed, out of which four cropping systems were suitable to Gujarat (Greengram-coriander-vegetable cowpea), Rajasthan (sweetcorn + blackgram – chickpea), Uttarakhand (Finger millet + black soybean -wheat + toria) and Sikkim (Maize- soybean-buckwheat) conditions. yy Developed EKCEL-decomposer (capsule) consisting of ligno-cellulolytic microorganism (including Fungi, Bacteria and Actinobacteria) in specified proportion along with curd, jaggery and urea with fresh cow dung for in situ decomposition. yy Identified two exotic collections of late maturing vegetable peas (EC 865944 and EC 865975) immune to powdery mildew under controlled (a) Resistant genotypes ‘EC 865944’ and ‘EC 865975’ (b) Grown with susceptible genotype under huge disease pressure in natural field conditions 13 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 as well as natural field conditions over three years with zero percent disease index score. yy Technologies of 88 Biocontrol agents, 31 Biopesticides and 41 Biofertilizers were documented and circulated. 6. Water Footprint Reduction Indian agriculture sector contributes significantly to an increasing carbon footprint, about 80% of the fresh water in India is used for irrigation purposes. This cannot be sustained in long run and thus, urgent paradigm shift is required in the management of water resources. Water footprint in agriculture can be reduced through smart irrigation technologies including micro irrigation and fertigation in high value crops.