 flagrans in sheep caused significant reduction in the number of infective larvae in faecal culture 24 hr post-dosing. No such effect could be seen for A. oligospora. Sheep Based on FECRT, 92% of the flocks tested showed emergence of anthelmintic resistant strain of parasites. Resistance to tetramisole in H. contortus was observed in 33.3% of flocks tested. The resistance to closantel was not observed. Egg hatch assay detected 75% of the flocks harbouring BZ resistant GI nematodes with a mean ED50 of 0.188 ± 0.017 µg TBZ/ml. Russian Merino and Rambouillet were more susceptible to GI nematodosis. The highest prevalence (88.75%) was recorded in Russian Merino. In Rambouillet sheep highest EPG (8,000) was recorded during winter. Sheep infected with haemonchosis showed resistance against albendazole when treated @ 7.5 mg/kg body weight orally. Per cent reduction in EPG was 70.7. Equines Vaccine against Salmonella Abortus-equi infection, prepared using outer membrane protein extracted from the causative organism, gave encouraging results. It was superior to that of the existing vaccine as it can be used along with the EHV- 1 vaccine, which was not possible with the existing vaccine. Rajasthan-98 strain of EHV-1 was the most virulent pathotype. Coggins test revealed absence of the EIA antibodies indicating that India has achieved zero level infection for EIA and it is a great achievement for the country as it would boost export of equines from the country. The prevalence of Mycoplasma equigenitalium was recorded for the first time indicating existence of mycoplasmosis in equines in the country, and it needs thorough investigation. One case of EHV-1 induced abortion revealed that EHV-1 infection is still persisting, which indicated the necessity for continuing the investigations against this infection. Serum samples revealed a variable level of fluoride content (0.018 ± 0.002 to 0.32 ± 0.02 ppm) indicating wide significant regional differences but within the normal values reported for the equids abroad. Antitrypanosomal potentiality of the crude extract of Lantana camara, was found COMPLETE GENOME SEQUENCE AND DEVELOPMENT OF VACCINE STRAIN OF INFECTIOUS BURSAL DISEASE VIRUS Infectious bursal disease is a highly contagious immuno-suppressive viral disease of young chickens. The virus primarily destroys antibody producing B- lymphocytes, birds become more susceptible to other bacterial and viral infections and also show poor response to vaccines. The virus possesses bi- segmented double-stranded RNA genome of around 6.1 kb in length. Significant difference was noticed in the genome of various strains of IBD viruses. The Indian field isolate of IBD virus was characterized. The sequence of Indian IBD field virus is available in the EMBL database under accession numbers AJ427340 and AJ496637. The sequence analysis revealed 1.2 to 4.9% divergence at nucleotide level in segment A, and 1.