 Over the past twenty years, extensive research has been conducted in India including its conservation biology, cytology, chemistry, plant genetic resources, micropropagation, crop management, and nutrition aspects as well. S AFED musli (C. borivilianum), also known as ‘Divya aushad’ belongs to the family Liliaceae. It is highly valued for its medicinal properties and is grown primarily for its fasciculated tubers/roots. Safed musli is a perennial herb with up to 16 in number, narrow, sessile and linear- ovate leaves measuring 13-23 cm × 1–2.5 cm, imbricately arranged at the base, and zygomorphic, pedicellate white flowers arranged alternately in groups. The plant produces endospermic 3-12 small, black, angular seeds inside green- yellow coloured, loculicidal capsule triquetrous. The roots are tuberous brown to black-skinned, white after peeling, possessing characteristic odour, tasteless, 3-20 in number, fasciculated, and 8-25 cm long. T r o p i c a l a n d Subtropical Africa are the probable centers of origin of the Chlorophytum genus. The genus Chlorophytum is made up of around 300 species of rhizomatous plants that are mostly found in tropical and subtropical forests up to 1,500 meters above mean sea level. It has been reported that 40 species of Chlorophytum are distributed in Asia, tropical Africa, America, and Australia. In India, 13 species of Chlorophytum have been reported, of which 6-7 are used in indigenous medicine. The species C. borivilianum Khadke G N*, Chinapolaiah A, Samadhan Bagul, Sonu Sharma and Manish Das Safed musli plant Fruiting capsule Indian Horticulture 16 became well-known in the late 1980s. It was introduced to India from South Africa. In India, it is naturally distributed in the hilly areas of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Maharashtra. It is a widely growing species and an integral part of Ayurvedic, Unani, Homeopathic, and Allopathic systems of medicine at a global level. It has gained a well-established Indian and International market for being the herbal alternative to ‘Viagra’ without any side effects. The roots fetch an attractive market price of ` 1600-1800 per kg of dry peeled fasciculated roots. Because of its high value and demand in the ayurvedic system, generally, the roots of C. borivilianum are mostly unscrupulously collected from their wild habitats in India. Due to its overexploitation in an unscientific manner by unskilled labour and the destructive nature of harvesting (the tuber being the economic organ, the whole plant is removed), shy flowering behaviour, poor seed formation, low seed germination and high seed as well as tuber dormancy have resulted in C. borivilianum being an threatened species. Therefore, conservative strategies and some innovative ideas should be initiated to protect C. borivilianum from becoming endangered. Hence, sustainable conservation, cultivation, and utilization of these species is highly essential and of utmost importance.