 Area falling under different farmers in the study area were documented. The operations performed by different farmers in the study area under different crops were documented in relation to the rainfall received in the standard and indigenous rain-gauges mounted side by side. Further, the quantity of rainfall received in both indigenous and standard raingauges on different dates from June to September was correlated by taking the parameters of the volume of water stored in both types of rain-gauges, considering the surface area collecting rainfall in each rain- gauge. Based on these parameters, a correction factor was determined to correlate the quantity of rainfall received in indigenous rain-gauge with the rainfall of standard rain-gauge. Operations performed for raising the crops with relation to rain water received in the rain-gauges were recorded. The loss of rain water in the form of overflow, splash and human interference was recorded for refinement of the indigenous rain- gauge. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The rainfall from both indigenous and standard rain-gauges established at different experimental sites was recorded during rain events during July- October 2002-04 (Fig. 2). Simultaneously, the various agricultural operations done by the farmers were related with the rainfall received during growing season of crops such as sorghum + pigeonpea, castor etc. A correlation was developed between the rainfall received through indigenous and standard rain-gauges for all the years. During the process, a correction factor was developed to quantify the rainfall of indigenous rain-gauge (IR) to test the validity of rainfall with standard rain-gauge (SR). The parameters included to derive the correction factor are surface area and volume. Correlation To correlate the rainfall of indigenous rain- gauge with standard rain-gauge, derivation of Surface area ratio is required. It was arrived at by: Surface area ratio = Area of standard rain- gauge/area of indigenous rain-gauge = 200 cm 2/398 cm 2 = 0.50 The results were validated over the study area by developing a correction factor for its wider applicability with the similar specifications of the rain-gauges used in the present study. To develop a correction factor, the rainfall data obtained from both the rain-gauges were fitted with the linear relationships, as: where In the first year of experimentation, the pooled correction factor observed was 0.32. With a little Fig. 2. Measurement of rain water collected in rolu Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Indigenous rainguage (mm) Fig. 3. Relationship between rainfall of indigenous rain- gauge and rainfall of standard rain-gauge under on- station and on-farm situations (pooled) improvement through slope manipulation a correction factor of 0.42 was achieved in the second year of experimentation. However, in the third year, CF achieved is 0.