 : Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Science University (MASFSU) Dr N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr V.S. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr Rajneesh Rana, Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division CIRG, Makhdoom- 281122, Mathura (U.P.) Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE METHODOLOGY Experiment MASFSU Therapeutic trial: The study was conducted on goats presented to Veterinary College Hospital, Nagpur with the history of diarrhoea or dysentery. These goats were subjected to detailed clinical and parasitological examinations and were sub- divided into parasitic and non-parasitic groups and were randomly assigned to two treatments within each broad group (parasitic and non- parasitic) comprising 6 goats irrespective of their age and sex. Another group consisting of 6 goats was kept as standard treatment. Flower juice of takala {Cassia tora) was prepared by mincing freshly collected flowers of Cassia tora in the morning hours. The juice was strained through a sieve and was drenched @ 15 ml twice a day to goats suffering from parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea. Faecal sample examination: Faecal sample of goats suffering with diarrhoea was collected per- rectal in clean sterile glass vials before treatment and thereafter on day 6 of treatment. The samples were examined by sedimentation technique immediately after collection. Therapeutic efficacy of the drugs: It was evaluated on the basis of eggs per gram faeces (EPG) determined by modified Stoll's dilution technique (Soulsby, 1982) on days 0 and 6 after- treatment. Clinical examination: Clinical signs such as dehydration score and faecal consistency were recorded Haemato-biochemical profile: Packed cell volume (PCV), serum total protein, albumin (A), globulin (G), A: G ratio, chloride, sodium and potassium were estimated from the blood samples collected on days 0 and 6 after-treatment. CIRG Therapeutic trial: Therapeutic efficacy of takala leaf extract was carried out in 15 diarrhoeic goats. Bacteriological examination of faecal sample from representative clinical cases (10) showed predominantly Escherichia coli. The suspension of methanolic extract of takala leaves was prepared in gum acacia (5%) for oral administration and was given @ 30 mg/kg body weight, once daily for 3 consecutive days. Haemato-biochemical estimations: Standard Table 1. Clinical changes in parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea before and after the treatment at MASFU Parameter Parasitic Non-parasitic Takala Standard therapy * Takala Standard therapy** Day 0 Day 6 Day 0 Day 6 Day 0 Day 6 Day 0 Day 6 Dehydration score 6.5 ±0.42 4.33 ±0.33 5.33 ±0.33 4.16 ±0.16 6.33 ±0.55 4.00 5.00 ±0.36 ±0.25 4.16 ±0.