 The research and development-led management along with planning strategies related to the utilization of resources in the field of horticulture would bring astounding transformation in the horticulture sector. Value-addition in horticultural products is the need of the day. Value- addition is the process that meets the requirements of nutritional security. It enhances the economic value of horticultural products and unlocks new markets as well. The sector requires latest developed machinery for effective, efficient and elegant management of the horticultural crops. Many horticultural crops like aonla, pomegranate, phalsa, jamun or black plum, citrus, fig, ber, khejri, bael, field beans, cucurbits, and more need insect pollinators for effective and value- rich pollination to reap better outcomes. The horticulture sector displays huge potential due to diversification factor and gives high returns compared to agricultural sector. In recent time, the government is bringing up several schemes and drafting strategies to exhilarate this sector. Wish you a Happy and Prosperous New Year 2022. (Ravindra Verma) January–February 2022 3 T K Behera*, G S Jat, A D Munshi and B S Tomar Research P usa Hybrid-4 has been developed by using gynoecious as female parent and monoecious line as male parent. It is highly suitable for growing during spring summer under north Indian plains. It is a predominately gynoecious hybrid with high female:male flower ratio (2:1) compared to commercial variety, Pusa Do Mausami (1:9). Fruits are dark green, medium long (average fruit length 16 cm and fruit diameter 5.5-6.5 cm) and medium thick. Fruits have 5-6 discontinuous narrow ridges and first harvest after 45-50 days of sowing. The average fruit weight is 60 g. Its average yield is 22.26 t/ha at 5 centres (4 in northern zone) of All Indian Coordinated Research Project on Vegetable Crops which is 25.7% higher than the national c h e c k P r i v a t e Hybrid ‘Vivek’. The fruits have high iron content (18.20 mg/100 g) as compared to Vivek (6.77 mg/100 g). The hybrid will be highly accepted by the farmers since there is no hybrid in bitter gourd available with higher female: male ratio available f o r c o m m e r c i a l cultivation under north Indian plains. C u l t i v a t i o n practices Pusa Hybrid-4 can be grown in all types of soil ranging from sandy loam to clay soil. However, well drained, fertile, rich in organic matter, silt or clay loam soils with a pH of 6-7 are ideal for successful cultivation. It requires a long and warm growing season with an average temperature ranging between 24-30ºC for better growth, flowering and higher production. Production of female flowers, fruit set and growth of plant are affected above 40°C temperature. About 4 to 5 kg seed is sufficient for sowing of 1 hectare of land. Seed should be treated with Thiram (2.5 g/kg of seed). Sowing is done during February-March for summer crop. The crop is sown in a channel of 1.