 d) Make sure electrical wiring is safe and away from flammable materials First-aid to injured /disabled animals received/maintained in gaushala in emergencies Cows are prone to common accidents include injuries, fractures, poisoning, obstetrical troubles, burns and scalds, etc. The aim of the first aid is to render such skilled assistance to the affected animals that will alleviate suffering, preserve life, promote recovery or prevent aggravation of the abnormal condition until the provision of specialized treatment. The first aid should aim at arresting of severe haemorrhage, if any, providing of plenty of free air to the patient, provision of warmth to check fall in temperature and shock, provision of rest by changing the position of the animal into an easy posture, covering all skin injuries with a clean dressing and keeping the animal still (especially in case of fractures) by drugging or by diverting its attention towards some food. First aid kit On all gaushala, a box containing the below mentioned items should be kept handy so that it can be reached quickly in emergencies. First aid requisites Cotton wool, bandages, surgical gauze, old cotton sheets Rubber tubing Surgical scissors--curved and made of stainless steel Forceps, splints or split bamboos (for stainless steel) Clinical thermometers – two or three Disinfectants – potassium permagnate, Dettol, sulphanilamide power Tannic acid – powder (for poisons) and jelly (for burns) Antibiotic eye drops Epsom salts, copper sulphate, Galuber’s salt smelling salt Oil of turpentine (for bloat) Obstetric ropes, chains and hooks Tincture of iodine, tincture Benzoin Co. (for wounds) Cotton ropes, halters (for restraint) Trocar and canula (for bloat) Pocket knife (for cutting, strangulating ropes) 39 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Technical and supportive manpower required The manpower required for undertaking all gaushala activities shall depend on the level of mechanization and automation of routine cow management operations. However, it has been estimated that on an average one worker can look after all routine activities of 10-15 cows along with their followers excluding the work of harvesting of fodder. Some routine activities such as milking (machine as well as hand milking), heat detection, care of down-calvers and neonates etc. require experienced and dedicated workers. Two or three workers have to be trained for the specialized jobs such as AI, first aid, animal identification, de- worming etc. Besides, at large Gaushalas technically qualified persons will have to be hired such as the farm manager, veterinarian, stockmen and the ministerial staff. The estimated manpower required at different sizes of Gaushalas is given as under Sr. No. Name of staff position Number of positions required at different sizes of gaushalas 100 cows 500 cows 1000 cows 1. Gaushala Manager-cum-Veterinary officer -- 1 1 2. Veterinary stock assistants-cum- supervisors 1 2 3 3.