 The Reviewer shall then carefully go through the information provided by lhe Reviewee and the evaluation done by him/her and shall fill in items intended for him/her. Such a completed proforma win then be sent to the Head of Division/Research Station/ Project for his remarks. 7. The Head of Division/Research Station/Project shall lhen carefully look through lhe proforma and in case he notices marked discrepancies between lhe Reviewer and lhe Reviewee's evaluation on the last item of Part II, he/she may give his/her comments on the discrepancies. In case the Head of Division/ !CAR HANDBOOK OI' TECHNICAL SERVICES '" Research Station/Project disagrees with !he assessment ofbolh the Reviewer and the Reviewee, he/she may give his/her reasons for disagreement. He shall then countersign the profonna with his recommendations. 8. The Director will then place the profonnas relating to all technical personnel before the Assessment Committee and obtain their recommendations for the grant of promotion or advance increment(s), as the case may be. Asscssmc111 System 9. The Assessment Committees will be constituted by the Appomting Authority and will comprise not less than 3 and not more than 5 members including the Chairman. The Chairman of the Committee would be a person from outside the Institute and would be nominated by the Chairman of the ASRB. Separate Assessment Committees will be constituted for each professional group/d,scipline and will include experts in the particular professional group/discipline in add1C1on to Head of Division/ Research Station/Project concerned in the Institute. 10. The Committee shall decide on the performance of the tech meal personnel by rnkmg mto consideration the documents mentroned in parll No.3 llbove. The technical personnel w,11 be given merit promotion or Advance incrernent(s). as the case may be. The number of advance increments to be given will not exceed three. One advance increment means one increment over and above the normal annual increment. ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES Proforma I ASSESSMENT FORM FOR THE TECHNICAL PERSONNEL (CA TE GORY I) OF THE ICAR (To be completed by the concerned Es// Division) L Reported period 2. Name 3. Date ofbirth 4. Designation 5. Present grade and scale of pay 6. Date of entry into service 7. Date of continuous appointment iO the present grade 8. Period ofabsence from duty, on leave, training, health, etc. during the period under report 9. Academic / Professional qualifications (underline any qualifications obtained during the period under repon) PART I (To be filled in by the Reviewee} Please furnish the following infonnation. 10. Educational career: Certificate/Diploma/Degree (i) ( ii) (iii) (iv) (>) Class/Grade University/ Board/Institute 10. Additional qualifications/ training acquired during the period under review: [CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES " 11.