 (iii) Capacity development of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies and enterprises. (iv) Work as Knowledge and Resource Centre for improving overall agricultural economy in the operational area. (v) Conduct frontline extension programmes and provide farm advisories using ICT and other media on varied subjects of interest to farmers (vi) Data documentation, characterization and strategic planning of farming practices KVK, while acting as a single window Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC), should produce quality technology related inputs/products (seeds, planting materials, bio-agents, livestock, fingerlings etc,) and make them available to farmers. Besides, identify and document selected farmer-led innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programmes within the mandate of KVK. KVK scheme is in implementation in the country since Forth Five Year Plan. There are many organizations involved in the implementation of KVKs in the country. Based on the experiences gained over the years, certain reinforcements are envisaged in the design and structure of the scheme for its effective implementation across the country. 4.1 Design KVK is designed to have expertise in three areas (a) technology assessment, refinement and demonstration to evolve location and site specific need based and viable technologies, (b) training and capacity development of farmers, rural youth, extension functionaries, and other stakeholders, and (c) serve as knowledge and resource centre (Fig-1). 4. Design, Structure and Strategy 4.2 Structure: Technologies developed through NARS need proper assessment and refinement for a particular location, before disseminating on a larger scale through demonstrations. Further, the skills related to these technologies are to be transferred to the clientele properly through training programmes. In addition, good quality seeds, planting materials, livestock strains, bio-products etc. have to be produced and supplied to the farmers for the effective adoption. Technologies also reach the masses through various extension activities like kisan mela, publications, field days, seminars, workshops, farmers visit to KVKs etc. KVKs undertake all these activities with the aim and objective of achieving sustainable growth in agriculture and its allied sectors in their respective districts. Fig. 1: Design of KVK 70 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK KVK is an integral part of NARS, which aims at the development and promotion of location specific technology modules in agriculture and its allied enterprises through Technology Assessment, Refinement and Demonstration. The functional structure of KVK to achieve its mandate is presented in Fig 2. Fig. 2: Functional structure of KVK 71 Design, Structure and Strategy 4.3 Strategy The NARS needs to respond to changing trends of agricultural scenario viz.