 Constraints to production system Š Š Urban and peri-urban agriculture is subject to a wide range of constraints to production. Some, for example pest attacks, adverse weather conditions and timely access to inputs such as seeds and pesticides, are common to all agricultural areas, but there are also issues that are specific to this environment. An important emerging constraint is the effect of environmental pollution of the air, soil and water, which potentially compromises the quantity, quality and safety of food produced in urban and peri urban agricultural areas. Ambient air pollution levels have been measured and their impact on crop yields assessed in the areas. The results raised serious concern. Additional research is being undertaken to assess the effects of air pollution on important crops, investigating the impact of gaseous pollutants on nutritional quality and the effects of heavy metal depositions on food safety. Š Š The service sector of the city is a more lucrative and less tedious alternative for income. Absentee landlords, farmers engaged in side business, employed in the city or where farmer has lesser family hands to manage the farming affairs employ labourers or give responsibility of farming to some interested person. Such persons are mostly ignorant of right stage of harvesting, proper cleaning, grading and packing of the produce, which results in low price for their produce. Sometimes, improper labeling of different grades also results in confused marketing and poor sale price. Though a good network of wholesale markets exists, Market information system is also either non-existent or not available in big mandis resulting in irregular production, uncertain availability of the produce and unorganized market prices. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 117 6.2 Strategy and action plan for enhancing production, cost reduction, quality improvement, generating additional income To meet the multiple objectives of poverty reduction, food security, competitiveness and sustainability, several researchers have suggested farming systems approach to research and development. A farming system is the result of complex interactions among number of interdependent components where an individual farmer allocates certain quantities and qualities of four factors of production, viz. land, labour, capital and management to which he has access. As the food supply from its own land is stagnant, there is ever increasing demand of food items to feed the growing population of the city. Agricultural commodities from all over the country are being supplied in the city market. The city population is conscious of food quality and has high purchasing power. Also, with passage of time, the fragmentation in land holding became inevitable.