8: Nationwide Policy for study of Climate Change Agenda 9.9: Provision for Short term research project Agenda 9.10: Inter –institutional collaboration in PG studies Agenda 9.11: All India Coordinated Project on Agricultural Education Agenda 9.12: Considering Sericulture under the area domain research of ICAR, New Delhi UAS, Bangalore pointed out that in the Vice-Chancellors meeting held on 21st and 22nd November 2000, it was agreed in principle to consider Sericulture under area domain research of ICAR and explore the feasibility to incorporate sericulture subject in the next entrance examination (vide Proc. Referred above of item no. 5). ICAR is yet to take decision regarding including sericulture under its research domain. The point was noted to look into the matter. Agenda 9.13: Programme for improving Quality of Agricultural Education It was informed that the action on the matter has already been taken. Agenda 9.14: Duration of Educational Tours under UG degree Programme The educational tour of 21 days could be split-up into two tours: (i) All India Tour (15days) and (ii) State Educational Tour (as a part of RAWE) (10days) as existed earlier to 2007-08. Agenda 9.15: Accommodation for Students and faculty member during All India Tour The need for establishment of transit hostels in the main campus of the university was suggested for accommodating students from other campuses/universities during study tour/special assignments. Agenda 9.16: e-Governance & e-Management The point was noted for action. Agenda 9.17: Inter-institutional exchange of Students and academicians for building HRD (HRD fellowship) It was decided to work out on this issue for harnessing the capacity of students and academicians to understand the gravity of agricultural research problems being perceived by different sectors of farmers. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.18: Streamlining the qualifications for ARS/NET in Home Science: PAU, Ludhiana A suggestion was put forth for streamlining the qualifications for ARS/NET in H.Sc. It was informed that the ARS/NET discipline of H.Sc. has been enlarged with a new name and the H.Sc. extension has also be included under agricultural extension. Agenda 9.19: Review of NET requirement for the post of Assistant Professor and equivalent: RVSKVV, Gwalior It was informed that the decision has already been taken on this matter. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 9.20: Rationalization of Grade pay to SMS of KVK’s: RVSKVV, Gwalior Since inception of KVKs under SAUs, all the Subject Matter Specialists recruited so far by SAUs are being treated on par with Assistant Professor and Scientist. Qualifications for the recruitment of Subject Matter Specialists have been same to that of Assistant Professor/Scientist. Therefore, the grade pay of Rs. 6000/- instead of Rs. 5400/- need to be granted to all Subject Matter Specialists in KVKs under SAUs. It was informed that the guidelines are being worked out by the Extension Division, ICAR. [Action: DDG (Agril. Extn.