 Complete recovery in this group was achieved with standard therapy with an average of 2 days. Treatment with ITK reduced the dehydration score and faecal consistency score, the clinical recovery was more pronounced in the standard therapy group. It was noted that the Shisham leaf paste had an ameliorative potential especially in nonparasitic diarrhoea. Results pertaining to clinical recovery in different groups of goats at BAU ITK alone could bring 60% recovery in non-parasitic diarrhoea. The average recovery period in this group was 7 days. The average recovery period was 3-5 day with 85% efficacy. This 30 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture indicated that the use of shisham leaves with panacure was highly effective in parasitic diarrhoea. Conclusion The use of shisham leaf paste in the treatment of diarrhoea was validated initially at IVRI. It was found that shisham leaf paste given @ 105 g could enhance the recovery in E. coli diarrhoea. Further studies at IVRI and cross-validation at three different centers also confirmed the ameliorative potential of shisham leaves in different types of parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoea. The presence of alkaloids, saponins and tannins may be responsible for the antidiarrheal activity of shisham leaves. 7.9 Treatment of diarrhoea by juices of Gurhul (Hibiscus rosasinensis) flowers in goats Description of the ITK Diarrhoea is common in goats in Samtoli village of Simdega district in Jharkhand and is controlled by extract of gurhul (urhul) flower. Juice of gurhul flowers (2-3 flowers) is orally administered twice a day for 3 days. The cost of the treatment is Rs. 30 per animal. A majority of the farmers use this ITK in this village. About 20% goats suffer from diarrhoea, and 50% are treated by the reported ITK. Name and address of the discloser Shri Babulal Horo, Pathalkudwam, Church Lane, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 001. Location of use of the ITK Samtoli, Simdega, Simdega (Jharkhand). Geographical indicators An evergreen, woody, glabrous, showy shrub, 5-8 feet high. The flowers solitary, axillary and bell-shaped. It is native to China. It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens throughout India and often planted as a hedge or fence plant. Experimenters Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr. N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr. G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr. D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr. V.S. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr. Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr. Rajneesh Rana Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division, Makhdoom 281 122, Mathura (U.P.). Results and discussion Therapeutic efficacy Results obtained for treatment of diarrhea using gurhul-flower juice at Nagpur Veterinary College and found that the gurhul-flower juice reduced the In vitro antimicrobial profile against Pr.