 A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 323 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 62 Careya arborea Kumbi H- Kumbi B- Kumbi M-Kumbia G-Kumbi Tel-Araya T-Ayma Kan-Kaval Mal-Alam The bark is fibrous and can be used for making brown paper and coarse cordage. The bark is used as demulcent in cough and cold, in the preparation of emollient, embrocation and as antipyretic and anti-pruritie in eruptic fever, particularly small pox. The calyces of the flower contains mucilage and are used as demulcent. The fruits contain astringent gum.Decoction of the fruit is given to promote digestion. Leaves are used for ulcer. The leaves contain 19% tannin. A large deciduous tree 30–60 feet high, distributed through out India up to an altitude 5000 feet. 63 Carica papaya Papaya H- Papeeta B-Pappaiya M-Papaya G-Papayi T-Pappali Tel-Boppayi KanParangimara The fruit is rich source of Vitamin A. Glycoside, carposide and alkaloid, carpaine are found in the leaves, The leaves contain Vitamin C 286 mg/100 g. Sinigrin like glycoside probably identical with carposide, and myrosin like enzyme are found in the roots. The ripe fruit is stomachic, digestive, carminative and diuretic. The milky juice of the unripe fruit is anthelmintic particularly effective in the expulsion of lumbrici. Seeds are said to quench thrust. The roots are said to cure yaws and piles. Papain is used in combating dyspepsia and other disorders. It is also used for reducing tonsils. It is used as bacteriophase. A herbaceous tree growing to a height of 10–25 feet bearing a crown of large, deeply lobed leaves giving a palm lobed like appearance. It is normally diocious, but occasionally monoecious. Plants bearing hermaphrodite flowers have also been recorded. It is at present grown over the tropical and sub-tropical countries of the world. In India it has been successfully cultivated in Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, West Bengal, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh. 64 Carrisa carandas Karaunda H- Karaunda B-Karancha Tel-Vaka T-Kalakkay KanKarekayi It is said to be possess anti-scorbutic properties. The fruit is useful as auxiliary in tannin and dyeing. The root is a bitter, stomachic and anthelmintic. Decoction of leaves is given in the early stage of remittent fever. A dichotomously branched large shrub or small tree with strong or forked thorns in pairs. It is found through out India, Burma, Sri Lanka and Malacca. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 324 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 65 Cassia auriculata Tanner’s cassia H- Tarwar G-Awali M-Tarwad T-Avaram Tel-Tangedu Kan-Tangedu Mal-Avara Its bark is the principle indigenous tanbark used in south-Indian tanneries.