 • Digital content development in consultancy mode was done for developing content for NIPHM, Online interaction with MOOC participants Digital course development in consultancy mode for NIPHM and ICAR-NDRI Field evaluation of Kinnow × Mukaku Kishu hybrids • Physico-chemical, functional characteristics and nutrient composition of proso millet, kodo and brown top millets were analyzed. Effect of level of polishing on the physico-chemical properties, functional characteristics and nutrient composition of barnyard millet was studied. Nutrient compositions of byproducts developed using barnyard millet at various levels of polishing were also analyzed. Kodo millet pasta Unpolished Semi-polished Fully polished • The putative lipase gene from pearl millet cv. Pusa 1201 was identified, and LOX enzyme was observed to the major contributor for rancidity development in pearlmillet flour, by the NAE centre at IARI. • 1,876 paired grid based (1.47×1.47 km2) soil (0–15 cm) and plant samples with GPS coordinates (were collected covering 22 basmati rice growing districts of Uttar Pradesh, viz. GB Nagar, Ghaziabad, Eta, Etawah, Hathras, ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 108 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Mainpuri, Firozabad, Mathura, Agra, Bulandshahr, Kannauj, Farukhabad, Auraiya, Sahajanpur, Muzaffarnagar, Bagpat, Saharanpur, Meerut, Bijnor, Badaun, Bareilly, Pilibhit. In addition, 1,000 irrigation water samples were also collected across these districts for analysis of metals and metalloids by centre at IARI, New Delhi. -sulphur bonding between AITC and TRP391. SEM imaging confirmed that the oil readily entered the nematode body through lipid layer of the cell wall and asserted its effect. • In a study conducted by centre at GADVASU, Ludhiana, Staphylococcus aureus was observed to be the most predominant organism isolated from mastitis animals (clinical and subclinical) followed by Klebsiella pneumoniae, E. coli and Streptococcus spp. Antibiotic sensitivity test revealed that Staphylococcus spp. was sensitive to sparfloxacin, tetracycline, gentamicin, vancomycin and doxycycline and resistant to amoxicillin, and Vibrio isolates from fishes were highly sensitive to gentamicin, tetracycline, chloramphenicol and sulfisoxazole. Collection of soil, plant and water samples from basmati growing areas of UP • Lime application at 1% under alternating wetting and drying moisture regime was found most effective for immobilization of DTPA-extractable Pb, Cd, Cr, Ni and Olsen-extractable As in metal- contaminated soil. Sunflower and marigold can be used effectively for phytoextraction of pollutant elements in soil. • Thirty-five traditional cultivars were screened for blast tolerance in field as well as in vitro conditions, and Sadanunia and T4M-35 were identified as aromatic cultivars with high resistance to blast for further inclusion in breeding programs by the centre at UBKVV, Coochbehar.