 In this process the identified vacancies would remain frozen from the period of conducting the ARS- examination to completion of FOCARS training, and thereafter the recruited scientists would be posted based on the merit vis-à-vis preferences. This would enable filling of vacancies at the desired institutes in a uniform manner irrespective of locations. An enormous effort has been made to increase the pace of recruitment and appointment to various RMP/Non-RMP and other vacant scientific positions. Further, the process for issuance of the appointment offer to selected candidates has also been streamlined. 7.2. Accordingly, the pace of recruitment to vacant positions has been enhanced with a mission to accomplish in a targeted manner. (i) Followings have been accomplished in direct recruitment of RMP/Non-RMP and other scientific positions Requisition to Advt. No RMP Non- PS/ ASRB during RMP Senior Year-month Scientist/ Scientist 2016- June 02/2016 08 09 - 2016- October 03/2016 - - 51 (PS) 2016 October/ Yet to be - - 75 (SS) & November advertised 2 (PS) PS, Principal Scientist (ii) Appointments offer issued after receipt of recommendation from ASRB Year-month RMP Non-RMP PS/Senior Scientist/SS 2016-July 9 9 - 2016-August 4 3 4 (PS) 2016-September 4 14 - PS, Principal Scientist 8. MIS with regard to strength/in-position/vacancy in all categories of scientists: This exercise was carried out online interactive mode with each institute. After completion of the exercise the database has been uploaded on the ICAR web site. From this task emerged the distortions which have occurred due to posting of Scientist/Senior Scientist/Principal Scientist at various Institutes irrespective of sanctioned strength in a discipline at the concerned institute. These distortions were identified and a committee was constituted with the approval of the competent authority to examine the distortions and provide recommendations to harmonize the same. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 139 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT Patents To protect new innovations, ICAR has filed 45 patent applications at Indian Patent Office (IPO), which were generated by its 23 national institutes. These applications were filed through SMDs include Animal Science (13), Crop Science (11), Horticultural Science (11), Agricultural Engineering (4), Natural Resource Management (4), and Fisheries Science (2). Thus the cumulative figure of patent applications has now risen to 1,025 applications from 69 ICAR institutes. These applications were pertaining to varied sectors of agriculture as given in Table 1. Copyrights: Ten copyright applications were filed by three ICAR institutes for their research outcomes including Expert system for identification and control of diseases/ insect-pests in pulse crops; IRS-MULLaRP; and Online database for specific plant parts images of selected varieties of rice, okra, mustard and chick pea.