 It organizes press conferences/ briefings addressed by the Union Agriculture Minister, Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR), Deputy Director- Generals, and Directors of various research institutes; and projects materials of immediate value to various newspapers, agricultural and current affairs magazines and electronic media. Millets in every plate, promoted through ICAR tableau: ICAR-DKMA participated in Republic Day Celebrations third time on 26 January 2023 with a tableau on the theme of International Millets Year declared by UN. ICAR showcased millets in Republic Day tableau as the UN celebrates India’s superfoods. The tractor in front of the tableau was decorated with a rangoli of millets - ivory-coloured jowar, grey-brown pearls of bajra and deep red ragi grains -- showcasing a combination of traditional farming and modernity. PUBLICATIONS, SOCIAL MEDIA AND PUBLIC RELATIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 207 The tableau of ICAR showcased the flourishing crops of jowar, bajra, ragi, kutki and sanwa, besides new nutritional millet products. The 8 events organised by the Council were widely covered by national print media as well as electronic media, especially by DD Kisan, All India Radio, PIB, PTI, Univarta, ANI etc. along with numerous national and local newspapers and electronic media. Participation in exhibitions at regional, national and international level: The Unit organized exhibitions and displayed important items relating to agricultural development in an interesting manner to spread awareness of new ideas, varieties, technologies, etc. and also advised the institutes on exhibition-related issues. PUBLICATIONS, SOCIAL MEDIA AND PUBLIC RELATIONS to the divisions and sections of the Council on a regular basis throughout the year. Several advertisements for appointments, tenders, etc. were published in newspapers through BOC (DAVP). The advertisements were published in 600 newspapers in Hindi, English and vernacular languages covering all the states of India. Publicity through publication and literature: The publication titled ‘9 Saal Sewa, Sushasan aur Garib Kalyan’ on achievements during 2014-2023 related to the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare was compiled and presented by this Unit. Similarly, two other publications titled “DARE-ICAR Significant Achievements 2021-22” and ‘Significant Achievements (2014-23): Aspiring for a developed India in the Amrit Kaal’ highlighting the achievements of the Council and its institutes were also compiled for publication. Documentary films and visuals: Five documentary films were made during the last financial year on various subjects like ‘Technical Marvel of ICAR’, ‘Salient achievements of ICAR’, Film on Dr C. Subramaniam Convention Centre is best known as the architect of India’s modern agricultur, Biofortified varieties developed and released by ICAR and so on.