5 m deep inside the ground during summer season. Rainfall is very high during mid July to August. Earlier, farmers used to grow cotton and pigeon pea in this area. However, they shifted to sugarcane with the availability of Ukai Kakrapar irrigation. the said farmer with the 10 acres of fertile land, recalled the happiness of his elders when canal water was made available to their land. Patels were very happy to irrigate their field and getting good yield of sugarcane and their family was prospering. The number of irrigations varied from 12 to 14 times during the entire crop growth period of sugarcane crop. The canal water has a salinity of 0.3 dSm-1, thus an irrigation gift of 1,600 to 2,000 mmyr-1 added 3.5 to 4.0 t ha-1 of salts to the soil profile. He was irrigating their field as much as possible but slowly he realized that problem of waterlogging (within 1 to 1.5 m below ground level) building up in their land due to low lying topography, over irrigation and low permeability of soil. Moreover, seepage of canal contributed major share of this water and the whole area Fig. 1. Installation of sub-surface drainage Fig. 2. Crop after installation of CSSD Indian Farming November 2020 16 Fig. 3. Closed sub-surface drainage system layout Farmer’s name: Morarbhai Kalidasbhai Patel, Village: Virpor, Taluka: Mandvi & Dist. : Tapi, Block No. 184, Area. 1.47 ha. Farmer’s name: Nayanbhai Morarbhai Patel, Village: Ghala, Taluka: Kamrej & Dist. : Suarat, Block No. 314 Area. 2.40 ha. Farmer’s name: Balvantbhai Morarbhai Patel, Village: Ghala, Taluka: Kamrej & Dist. : Suarat, Block No. 314 Area. 1.50 ha. became muddy and there was no way to drain out the excess water. The natural drains were choked with weeds like Typha, Lantana and Ipomea. Unable to get the proper yield, he was very worried and realized that over irrigation and unscientific practices have made his land barren. Meantime, the farmers heard some technology about drainage and consequently they visited the Soil and Water Management Research Unit, NAU, Navsari. They interacted with the scientists and were happy to know about the subsurface drainage technology which can get rid of the water logging as well as salinity and sodicity of their field. As suggested by the scientists, the farmers followed the guidelines for reclamation in their own lands. With full enthusiasm and motivation, he helped the scientists in all respects and he was happy that the drainage which earlier was choked with weeds was cleared with the use of herbicides as suggested by the scientists. The University recommends subsurface drainage for waterlogged and salt- affected lands besides addition of organics (manures and green manure). Farmers themselves bore the expenditure on the subsurface drainage system. Now, they realize the importance of maintaining the proper drainage in the field.