 ● ●● ●● Intercropping pigeonpea with groundnut or sesame increased yield and reduced pigeonpea nematode Heterodera cajani population. ● Designed and developed a simple, cheap light weight royal jelly collector. ● For hybrid seed production in sunflower, pollination by Apis mellifera and A. cerana is preferred alternative to hand pollination. ● When Butea monosperma is grown on farm-bunds, it attracts many depredatory birds and thus crop losses get reduced. ● Reported for the first time in Jamnagar, ruffs (Philomachus pugnax) and black- tailed god wit (Limosa laponica) damaging wheat at sowing and at sprouting. ● An annotated checklist of coccinellid fauna of Indian subcontinents is being prepared. ● Aceria guerreronis, reported as serious pest of coconut in Kerala, has spread to all coconut-growing areas. ● Developed an easy and rapid laboratory method for large-scale screening of a wide range of antagonists against specific nematodes. CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 43 A high temperature-tolerant strain of Trichogramma chilonis developed at 36°C and 60% relative humidity after 48 generations of rearing gave 85% parasitism and increased longevity (4 days). Studies on Entomopathogens Sulphur and CaSO4 at all concentrations significantly reduced radial growth of Beauveria bassiana, B. brongniartii and Metarrhizium anisopliae but did not affect spore production. Paraquat was found toxic to B. bassiana, B. brongniartii and M. anisopliae, and glyphosati was more toxic to B. bassiana than the other two fungi. Aceria guerreronis, first recorded as serious pest of coconut in Kerala in 1998, has spread to all the coconut-growing areas of the country within three years. Fungal and Bacterial Antagonists Molasses-soy medium, which supports biomass production of Trichoderma species, has been standardized for commercial production. Soil application of Trichoderma harzianum and T. viride at 5g of powder formulation mixed in 1 kg of farmyard manure (FYM) effectively controlled Fusarium wilt and Rhizoctonia wet root-rot of chickpea and also gave higher yields. Soil application (10g in 1 kg of FYM) of T. harzianum prior to sowing was more effective than seed treatment (10g/kg of seed) in controlling Fusarium wilt of pigeonpea caused by F. udum and resulted in better plant growth and yield. The bioagents were allowed to proliferate up to 30 days after inoculation. T. viride was found effective in controlling root-rot of cotton caused by Rhizoctonia solani. Seed treatment (at 5 g/kg) with talc-based formulations of the bacterial antagonists, Pseudomonas putida and P. fluorescens, was found promising against Fusarium wilt and Rhizoctonia wet root-rot of chickpea and Fusarium wilt of pigeonpea. Entomopathogenic Nematodes Toxins isolated from Xenorhabdus nematophilus and Photorhabdus luimescens and smeared on the larvae of potato-tuber moth had resulted in absolute mortality. Steinernema carpocapsae (PDBC EN 6.11) sprayed at 1.