 The second fortnight of June is observed to be the peak period of emergence of beetles and emergence continued until the first fortnight of August, adults mate in the evening and at dawn. Females return to the ground to deposit the eggs in the soil depending upon the softness of the soil. The white grubs complete one life cycle in a year. Thrips Stem necrosis White grubs November–December 2019 43 Management: Management strategy can be divided in two parts, viz. adult beetles and grubs. Adult beetle: Light traps having water mixed with kerosene are useful to trap and kill the adults as soon as they emerge after first shower. In nature, white grub population is kept in check by predatory birds like Indian myna and jungle crow. In India and Nepal, Metarrhizium anisopliae and Beauveria bassiana are being used against white grub. Entomopathogenic nematodes (EPN) like Steirnernema carpocapsae and Heterorhabditis indica are effective in management of white grubs in potato crop. Grub : Deep ploughing after harvest of potato is the best way to expose white grubs to high temperature and natural predatory birds. Removal of weeds from bunds around the field reduces the chances of egg laying. Deep placing of seed tuber is recommended. Only well rotten farm yard manure should be applied to the fields. Spray of chlorpyriphos 20 EC (0.1%) immediately after first monsoon shower on weeds and bunds around the field will reduce the number of grubs emerging out of eggs. Spray the crop (ridge portion) with chlorpyriphos 20 EC @ 2.5 l/ha after earthing-up to kill the larvae. There should be sufficient moisture in the soil at the time of application and the insecticide should be thoroughly mixed in the soil so that sufficient quantity of insecticide is present in the root zone. Cutworms, Agrotis segetum (Denis & Schiffermuller) (Noctuidae: Lepidoptera) Economic importance: Cutworms are polyphagous and most destructive insects. Agrotis segetum, A. ipsilon, A. flammatra and A. interacta are reported to occur on potato. In India, cutworms are more serious in northern region than south. Agrotis segetum is commonly found in hills and A. ipsilon is common in plains. Peak activity occurs during May-June in Shimla hills, in August in peninsular India and in March-April in Bihar and Punjab. In Bihar, the tuber damage is reported upto 12.70% and in Himachal Pradesh 9-16.4% tubers were damaged by cutworm. They cause damage in many different ways: (i) young larvae feeding on leaves (ii) mature larvae cutting the stem of the plant just near the ground and (iii) making irregular holes in the tubers. Larvae also feed on roots. They feed at night on young shoots or underground tubers. Smooth, greyish-brown, greasy and plump looking caterpillars are found hiding in the soil near to the stem of the plant during day time. Tuber damage ranges between 9-16%.