 In view of the advanced stage of research and the likely economic benefits to Indian cotton farmers and the economy, the legality of the 'agreement' between Dr. RP. Sharma, the then Director NRCPB, New Delhi and the University of Ottawa to use this CryiAc gene is an issue to be examined for its implications in the Indian context. Subsequently, the following decisions were taken. 1. The so-called 'Biological Material Transfer and Collaboration Agreement' in question is between Dr. RP. Sharma, the then Director NRCPB, New Delhi and the University of Ottawa. It appears to be only a kind of understanding at their personal level. It may not be considered as an agreement at the national level. This view emerged in view of the fact that this matter was never referred by NRCPB at that stage to the ICAR Hqrs., and Dr. R P. Sharma signed the understanding in his individual capacity. Accordingly, it was felt that in' case ICAR-SAU system has to submit in future the proposals for release of indigenously developed varieties/hybrids in India and containing this gene, the issue of IPR or ownership on this gene may not be any issue at the national level. However, it was considered appropriate to send the so-called 'agreement' and these proceedings to Legal Advisor ICAR for the opinion of Law Section ICAR on the 'legal validity' of the so-called 'agreement' in India. ADG (IPR) can explain the case to Legal Advisor ICAR for arriving at an opinion. (Action: ADG (IPR) and LA. ICAR) \)..6 / / .. 2. The nature of the gene was discussed in detail. Four Cry1Ac genes in the Indian context were referred to. It was noted that other than the Cry1Ac gene of Monsanto-Mahyco venture which was first released in the form of different 8t cotton hybrids in India, two other similar CrY1Ac gene(s) from the public sector have also been allowed in the current year 2006 by GEAC, Ministry of Environment and Forests, Gal to two other Indian private companies for release into the environment in the form of Bt cotton hybrids. Accordingly, it was felt that for all practical purposes this gene in question from NRCPB shall be called 1\ 'truncated Cry1Ac toxin gene from NRCPB, New Delhi'. Nevertheless, it was felt that the ICAR-SAU system should be prepared to meet any GEAC requirement at the time the question of release of materials containing NRCPB gene arises. It was, accordingly, decided that as a preparatory exercise we must be ready with the likely GEAC requirement with respect to the NRCP8's gene vis-a-vis all other Cry1Ac gene.s in India'. For the purpose, a note ·be jointly prepared by Drs. P. Ananda Kumar and B. M. Khadi. This note will be strictly confidential for internal use only. (Action: Drs. P. Ananda Kumar and B. M. Khadi) 3. It was decided that we should continue with R&D and bio-safety related work for release of indigenously de·veloped Bt cotton varieties/hybrids. If any difficulty is encountered in future, ·that will be handled at that time in future.