 The establishment of litchi-oriented state sponsored projects such as ‘Litchi Niche’ area in the Jammu region, and Litchi estate in Punjab also further give momentum to litchi cultivation in Northern regions of India. A n adequate supply of nutrients to litchi plants is the main criterion which contributes significantly for the higher production of quality fruits. Besides, the potential yields are reduced drastically due to the poor availability of nutrients. New vegetative flushes in litchi depend upon the reserved or availability of photosynthates/ carbohydrates rather than the annual application of recommended fertilizers. The visual symptoms of nutrients deficiency occur due to the lower availability of nutrients, antagonistic soil nutrient interactions, soil pH, etc. According to estimates, one tonne of litchi fruit annually removes about 2.2 kg N, 2.2 kg P2O5, 6.6 kg K2O, 1.6 kg CaO and 1.1 kg MgO from the soil. In India, an average fruit productivity of about 7.65 MT/ha has been documented; thus, on an average, fruits remove about 16.8 kg N, 16.8 kg P2O5, 50.5 kg K2O, 12.2 kg CaO and 8.41 kg MgO nutrients from the soil system. To compensate the nutrients loss, growers are applying the organic and inorganic fertilizers regularly for the sustainable fruit production. The plants of litchi produce higher yields of good quality when applied with optimum level of nutrients even under soils inherited low fertility level. Fertilizers contribute about 50-70% towards the fruit yield and the drastic reduction of fruit yield and quality has been witnessed due to improper fertilizers schedule. At the same time, excess application of fertilizers especially N, P, K contents not only results in economic loss but also causes environmental pollution and higher incidence of insect- pests and diseases. The litchi crop needs micro-nutrients Technology in addition to N, P and K fertilizers. Thus, growers should add organic and inorganic fertilizers to sustain fruit yield, quality and soil health. Hence, risk of fruit yield and economic losses resulting from nutrients deficiency may be mitigated. The aim of the nutrient management is to maintain the optimal nutrients level, good plant health and production of maximum fruiting shoots. Soil and leaf analysis The soil and leaf analysis are considered as reliable norms and should be linked to ascertain the nutritional status of orchards, nutrient disorders and to guide/develop fertilizers scheduling in fruit crops. The soil samples at the depth of 0-15 cm and 15-30 cm from the orchards should be tested after 2-3 years so that nutrient status may be judged well in advance before the appearance of any nutritional deficiency. Recent studies also revealed that 4-5 months old leaves from autumn flush should be collected from 2nd and 3rd pair of leaflets from the apex of terminal litchi shoots at the advent of panicle initiation (February-March) to assess the nutritional concentrations of litchi orchards.