 A stationary flat collector was used to collect the nanofibres; the fibres obtained were of 150 to 300 nm diameter. The nanofibre uniformity was primarily considered for optimization. The produced PVA control, 5 wt % and 10 wt % zinc sulphate impregnated electrospun mats were converted into sachets covering it with 100% cotton woven fabric to enhance biodegradability. An in-vitro seed germination experiment was conducted with blackgram (Co 7) with following treatments, viz. T1, Absolute control (No mat); T2, Control PVA 10% mat (without nutrient); T3, 10% PVA Prebiotic Symbiotic Probiotic Process Technology of Multi-nutrient Composite Mix for Biscuits (Patent No: 383888) Multi-nutrient biscuits are nutritionally enriched baked products developed using corn flour, whole wheat flour, sorghum flour, malted finger millet, greengram, sprouted soybean unsalted peanuts, dairy whitener and papaya. It is rich in nutrients like energy (500 kcal), protein (14 g) valuable for combating protein deficiency and fibre (1 g) per 100g. The biscuits are rich in minerals, antioxidants, phenolics and flavonoids sourced from natural food materials. It contains no artificial flavouring or added preservatives with an adequate shelf-life (3 months). It has a high satiety value, appealing taste and is cost effective and has 21% more overall acceptability on a sensory scale over commercial biscuits. From 1 kg of dough, approximately 200 biscuits are obtained. are having niche market than conventional cotton textiles due to their sustainability advantages. There is a need to establish the authenticity of such niche products. Spectrophotometrically responsive bleached cotton fibres were produced with the combination of chemicals that can act as marker fibres. These marker fibres were blended (1% on weight basis) with NCC fibres in blow room operation during spinning process and converted into yarn and woven fabric. The presence of the markers in the final product could be detected by non-invasive spectrophotometric technique. Industrial trial on blending of marker fibres with seven bales (170 kg each) of NCC fibre has been successfully completed. Cost of production of 1 kg of the marker fibre was found to be approximately ₹600. This technique will be very useful in confirming the authenticity of fibre origin in Naturally Coloured Cotton textiles. Process protocol for spinning of recycled cotton Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 136 Process Technology for Gluten-free Eggless Cake (Patent No: 393566) The novel cake formulation consists of malted ragi, amaranth and sprouted soybean forming gluten-free flour, banana and yoghurt as egg replacer complex and cholesterol free vegetable oil instead of saturated fat which makes it rich in protein (5 g), minerals (1.4 g), iron (4.5 mg) with good antioxidant activity for 100 g of cake.