 Fried cassava chips with excellent texture and acceptable colour could be obtained from fresh cassava root slices pre-treated with 0.1% acetic acid/ citric acid, washed and blanched for 10 min. before deep-fat frying. Performance evaluation of a newly fabricated cassava rasper showed that its capacity of tuber rasping is 385 kg/hr and 360 kg/hr with cassava varieties, H 226 and H 165 respectively. Immobilization of Aspergillus sp. on brick powder was effective for detoxification of cassava starch factory effluents Technique for the production of citric acid from sweet potato residues was developed, the yield being 47.6 mg/ml of the culture filtrate of Aspergillus niger. The de novo production of sugars was maximum when whole tubers of sweet potato were baked or thick chips sun-dried. Least sugar formation was detected during microwave baking. High anthocyanin types useful for extraction of natural colourants were identified in sweet potato (25-30 mg anthocyanin/100g leaves). Anti-bacterial and anti-fungal properties of Dioscorea alata, Amorphophallus and Curcuma sp. were established through solvent extraction and using microbial cultures. Mucilage from Colocasia, Xanthosoma, Amorphophallus and edible Dioscorea sp. was isolated using 0.1% ammonia and acetone precipitation and the yield ranged from 1.8-3.0% (FWB). An additional advantage was the recovery of starch for other uses. A drum type centrifugal granulator for animal feed manufacture from tuber crop flours was fabricated. Petroleum ether extracts of Curcuma sp. were separated by TLC and certain fractions were found to have larvicidal (mosquito larvae) effects. Under the planting material production programme, 47,220 stems of different high-yielding cassava varieties, 4,368 kg of yams and aroids (1,115 kg D. alata, 88 Pheromone trap is effective in collecting weevils on sweet potato NEW TECHNOLOGY The low-cost effluent treatment technology developed at CTCRI for the detoxification of starch and sago factory effluents was successfully transferred to M/s Selvakumar Starch & Sago Industries, Thammampatty, Salem. The technology has several attractive features like easy installation and maintenance, extra income from fuel gas, permissible levels of BOD, COD and Cyanide, feasibility for aquaculture or recycling of water etc. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 60 kg D. esculenta and 187 kg elephant-foot yam) were produced. Approximately, 10,195 stems of cassava, 820 kg of yams and 150 kg of elephant-foot yam and 5,000 vine cuttings of sweet potato were distributed to farmers and developmental agencies. Under the Revolving Fund Scheme, more than 4.0 tonnes of seed material of elephant- foot yam, Dioscorea and Colocasia were supplied to developmental agencies Survey on tuber crop cultivation in the tribal areas of Orissa and Madhya Pradesh showed that sweet potato was the most important tuber crop grown by the farmers, followed by yams and taro.