 • Identified Single Nucleotide Polymorphism (SNP) related to four important traits of buffalo, i.e. milk volume, age at first calving, post-partum cyclicity and feed conversion efficiency. These identified SNPs have been compiled as database called “SNPRBb”. The database is accessible (http://snprbb.icar.gov.in) through web and can be used in molecular breeding program of buffalo species. • Developed a transcriptome database of seasonality associated genes of Carp fish, Rohu (Labeo rohita Ham) – “LrSATDb”. This genomic resource contains candidate genes and regulating pathways along with putative SSR and SNP markers and is freely accessible for non-commercial use at http://webtom.cabgrid.res.in/lrsatdb. This resource can be used as research tool especially in the endeavour of optimizing reproductive efficiency and fish productivity. Further, it can also be of immense use in genome assembly and annotation of Rohu. • Developed Water Buffalo (Bubalus bubalis) Mastitis Database (WBMSTDb), an open source and user-friendly web resource of targeted gene panels, which can be used for academic purposes in future mastitis association studies (http:// webtom.cabgrid.res.in/wbmstdb). This will help to mine variants of targeted gene panels in buffalo for mastitis resistance breeding program in India and other countries in an endeavour to ensure improved productivity and the reproductive efficiency of water buffalo. • Developed “PlantSSRDb” (http://webtom. cabgrid.res.in/plantssr/) for providing a standalone platform for the exploration of the SSRs from the expressed portions of the genome as well as online platform for mining the SSRs either from the transcripts or the NGS reads of the transcriptome. PlantSSRDb provides the SSRs information accompanied with the primer pair information for 439 plants species. • “TpGBNVDb”-Thrips palmi transcriptome database (http://backlin.cabgrid.res.in/tpgbnvdb/) developed in response to groundnut bud necrosis virus, is an online relational database of Melon thrips (Thrips palmi) transcriptome catalogues the information pertaining to assembled transcripts, differentially expressed genes and the pathways. • “CsExSLDb”- Cucumis sativus Extended Shelf- Life Database is an online relational database of cucumber (Cucumis sativus) transcriptome (http:/ /backlin.cabgrid.res.in/csexsldb/) that catalogues the information pertaining to assembled transcripts, differentially expressed genes and the pathways. This database was developed by ICAR-IASRI in collaboration with ICAR-IARI and ICAR-NIPB. Information systems/portals developed • Designed and developed a “BRICS agricultural research platform” (http://barp.org.in) which allows officials of all BRICS countries to register and collaborate on various themes as per the objectives of BRICS 2020–2021 agenda.