 ` 20,000 and the capacity is 3-3.5 m/min. Equipment for twisting and winding of splitted strands: The equipment contains a mechanism for twisting and another mechanism for winding the twisted strands on four bobbins through a bobbin building mechanism. Provision is made to vary the number of twists with the help of speed control mechanism, based on the requirement of the end product. Two 0.25 hp single phase motors Pilot plant for probiotic fruit juices Banana sheath splitter Millet flaking machine Banana sheeth rope making machine Banana fibre and rope with suitable power transmission mechanism are provided to operate the drawing, twisting and winding mechanisms. The initial cost of the machine is ` 90,000. The capacity of the equipment is 4,800 m/ day. Millet flaking machine and process for fermented millet flakes It comprises of two sets of stainless steel rollers running at a differential speed, in opposite direction. The machine is powered by a 0.5 hp single phase motor. Raw material is fed to the flaking rolls by a polygonal teflon feeder. The minimum flake thickness achievable by the machine is about 0.5 mm with flaking efficiency of about 92%. A process has also been developed for fermenting the sorghum grains with suitable cultures. The fermented grains were steamed and flaked. The appearance and texture of flakes prepared from fermented grains was observed to be better in comparison to non-fermented grains. Integrated Lac Processing Unit An integrated lac processing unit (capacity – 100 kg/day) was developed. The operations of crushing, grading, pre-soaking and washing are completed in single unit. Bucket conveyors have been used for movement of raw materials in the unit to reduce the POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 93 labour requirement. The washing barrel in the unit has tilting mechanism for batch washing of crushed sticklac and easy removal of wash water and prepared seedlac. The unit is suitable for mechanised production of seedlac from sticklac. The quality parameters (i.e. flow, life, acid value and moisture content) of the seedlac obtained from the unit was observed to be comparable with seedlac manufactured through available small scale lac processing units (SSLPU). and thereby results in delayed bitterness of extracted kinnow juice. To overcome this problem, ICAR- CIPHET, Abohar has developed a process protocol for de-bittering of kinnow juice using different enzymes and adsorbents. The developed process reduces limonin to undetectable levels and considerably curtails the activity of LDLH enzyme. The complete process protocol for de-bittering of kinnow juice involves following sequential steps. Detection of Safflower adulteration in Saffron by SCAR markers and DNA barcodes At the CIPHET Centre, Genomic DNA was isolated by method of Moller et al.