 It is quite painful to the animal. Application of sugar crystals helps, makes worms come out. Worms are then removed and the wound is cleaned. Bark of baval (Acacia nilotica) is cut into pieces and boiled in water. The decoction is allowed to cool and then poured on the wound. A spun of cotton lint dipped in castor (Ricinus communis) seed oil is put on the wound. The treatment is repeated for 5-7 days for complete healing of the wound. Tannin present in the bark of baval probably helps in healing the wounds. Castor oil has emolient, antiseptic and soothing properties and helps in effective healing (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Chauhan (1996) 446 Wound healing by cashew oil Application of cashew shell oil to cattle wounds helps in fast healing of wounds by acting as antiseptic and softening the wound site. Cowdung application also has disinfectant properties and helps in wound healing in cattle (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 447 Goat droppings for healing of wounds About three to four droppings of goat and one or two leaves of avaliyo or aval (Cassia auriculata) are pound together and the mixture applied daily over the animal’s wound. The wound is healed within a week. Aval grows through out the year in this region (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Pagi (1997) 448 Method to cure khurda disease in sheep Karnu tree leaves are crushed and wrapped around the infected feet of sheep after washing them with luke warm water effectively cures khurda disease due to antiseptic and fly repellent properties of Karnu leaves (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 449 Herbal treatment for injuries in animals Bark of beli tree is wrapped around the injured portion of animals for speedy recovery because of its antiseptic properties and fly repellent properties (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 450 To promote healing of wounds in cattle by Thumbai (Leucas aspera) The leaf paste of Thumbai is applied to wounds to promote healing (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 257 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 451 Treatment of septic wounds The leaf of ‘sundarsol’ placed on an injury with its upper side in contact with a wound, promotes healing. If the lower (dorsal) side is placed in contact with a boil, it forms pus. In the treatment the lower side is first applied to ripen the boils and then the upper side for quick healing. Peopletreat clean wounds directly with the upper side of the leaf. The same treatment is also used in human beings and is widely adopted in Gujarat (Amreli, Gujarat). Valjibhai (1993) 452 Treatment and healing of wounds The leaf paste of Thumbai, an erect herb (Leucas aspera) is applied to wounds to promote healing (Tamil Nadu).