 11 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Farmers were distributed inputs of ornamental fish tank, feed, aerator and other implements as a start-up to carry out ornamental fish farming in the hilly region. The 4-day long training course was designed as per the need of the villagers including hands-on training, classroom teaching and a visit to the ornamental fish market. They were trained on aquarium making and aquascaping, low-cost artificial feed preparation, common livebearers, egg layers ornamental fishes and their breeding, maintenance, monitoring of ornamental units, etc. A local visit to the Gallif street market was arranged for them to witness the ornamental fish trade, market conditions, pricing and other accessories. In-Charge, Institute Technology Management Unit ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Barrackpore, Kolkata 700 120 Exposure visits cum Capacity building programme on Integrated Aquaculture for the Tribal beneficiaries 9 June 2023, Kausalyaganga. More than 54% Scheduled Tribe (ST) population Gajapati and Rayagada Districts in are primitive tribes of Sauras, Langia saurs and Danagaria Kandhans. To enhance their livelihood security and economic upliftment, “Exposure visit cum Capacity building programme on Integrated Aquaculture for the Tribal beneficiaries” on the occasion of Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav and Jan-Bhagidari was initiated at ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar (ICAR-CIFA) Bhubaneswar. The programme was inaugurated on 7 June 2023, by Dr Pradeep Rout, OAS (SAG) Addl. Secy. to Govt. & Pvt. Secy. to Hon’ble Minister Panchayati Raj and Drinking Water, Forest, Environment, Climate Change, Information & Public Relations Dept., Govt. of Odisha; and Dr PK Sahoo Director, ICAR-CIFA. Dr Rout narrated his experiences of working in tribal areas in various capacities and lauded that tribals are the saviour of our culture and heritage, and they need to be empowered. During the event, a documentary film on ICAR- CIFA interventions in Gajapati District, Odisha was showcased. The participants also displayed their tribal songs and folk Dance. Press and Media ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar 751 002 Celebration ICAR-CCARI Goa celebrated 34th Foundation Day 3 April 2023, Old Goa. The ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa, Goa celebrated 34th Foundation Day on 1 April 2023. Chief Guest, Dr Suresh Kumar Chaudhari, DDG (NRM), ICAR, New Delhi congratulated the Institute for its achievements and urged it to keep up the research and development for the benefit of the coastal farmers. Dr Parveen Kumar, Director, ICAR-CCAR, Goa; Special Guest, Shri Nevil Alphonso, Director, Directorate of Agriculture, Govt. of Goa; Shri Pradip Sarmokadam, Member Secretary, GSBB, Govt. of Goa graced the foundation day.