 Using more robust algorithms for machine learning (ML) and deep learning (DL), classification models have been developed that can be used to classify images into more than two classes for example bacterial blight (Telya), anthracnose, fruit spot, Fusarium wilt, and fruit borer. NRCP in collaboration with NIT-Suratkal is working on developing models for such multi-class identification of bacterial and fungal disease. Predictive analytics: Forecasting models developed on the basis of various parameters such as weather, soil and water parameters are beneficial for farmers. With the advent of artificial intelligence and machine learning in the recent times, these predictive models have achieved accuracy rates beyond expectations. Several micro-level parameters such as temperature, relative humidity, wind speed, wind pressure, precipitation, weather description, sunshine hours and soil moisture can be utilised to obtain a minimum error rate. Weather-based prediction models become all the more important in an export-oriented crop such as pomegranate. Due to ever changing climatic conditions, bacterial blight which was a major constraint during rainy season crop (Mrig bahar) became a serious issue in winter season crop (Hast bahar) as well leading to losses up to 60% of the total produce. The favourable microclimate conditions if monitored accurately and prediction is made timely, then these losses can be averted. Several studies have been conducted at ICAR-NRCP indicated bacterial blight occurrence to be corelated with low night temperatures, high humidity, slight drizzles and extended number of rainy days. Day temperatures between 25 to 35°C and relative humidity of more than 30% were found to be conducive for blight appearance. Blight prediction models based on weather parameters are underway through collaboration between ICAR-NRCP and ICAR-CRIDA. In addition to biotic stress prediction, AI can be used for prediction of abiotic stress response of pomegranate trees as well. Hyperspectral reflectance can be used non- destructively to detect and monitor salt stress response of pomegranate cultivars. AI models can also predict future crop yields, market trends, and potential challenges, helping farmers make informed decisions. Blockchain technology for transparency and traceability Fruit processing operations in pomegranate industry have the prospect to take advantage from Industry for ideas by refining traceability (leveraging blockchain), monitoring, and control of food quality (through improved IoT sensors); improving safety, manufacturing, automation; and reducing loss and waste through improved smart manufacturing lines. Blockchain technology provides a secure and transparent way to track the journey of pomegranates from the orchard to the consumer.