 several other departments have approached PFMS for developing utilities for their departmental need as follows: (i) CBDTPAN Validation (ii) GSTN bank account validation Implementation Strategy An Action Plan has been prepared and approved by Ministry of Finance for phased implementation of Public Financial Management System. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 218 APPENDICES Improved Financial Management through Justin Time (JIT) release of funds Monitoring of use of funds including ultimate utilization Strategy Universal roll-out of PFMS which inter alia includes Mandatory registration of all Implementing Agencies (IA) on PFMS and Mandatory use of Expenditure Advance & Transfer (EAT) Module of PFMS by all IAs. I. Implementation Strategy for Central Sector (CS) schemes/ transaction Activities to be completed Mandatory registration and use of EAT module by IAs Mapping of all relevant information of Schemes Uploading of budget of each scheme on PFMS Identify implementation hierarchy of each scheme Integration of System Interface of specific schemes with PFMS, e.g. NREGA Soft, Awas Soft Deployment and training of trainers II. Implementation Strategy for Centrally Sponsored Schemes Activities to be under taken by states State Treasury Integration with PFMS Registration of all SIAs on PFMS (1st level and below) Mapping of stale schemes with corresponding central schemes Configuration of State schemes on PFMS Configuring State Schemes components Identify and configure hierarchy of each state scheme Integration of PFMS with schemes specific software application Deployment and training of trainers Continuous support for implementation At present, all nine (09) Pay & Accounts Offices of M/o Agriculture Farmers Welfare, four (4) PAOs arc located in Delhi/NCR. One each in Mumbai, Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur arc functioning successfully on PFMS. All payments are routed through PFMS and e-payments being directly credited into the beneficiary’s bank account. I. Employees Information System (EIS) Module of PFMS: This Module has been implemented in all Drawing & Disbursing Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. II. CDDO Module of PFMS: CDDO module of PFMS has been rolled out in all Cheque Drawing and Disbursing Offices of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare. III. Online Portal (Bharatkosh) for collection of Non-Tax Revenue in the Ministry: The objective of Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) is to provide a one-stop window to Citizens/Corporate/Other users for making online payment of Non-Tax Revenue payable to Government of India (Gol). Non-Tax Revenue of Government of India comprise of a large bouquet of receipts, collected by individual departments/ministries. Primarily these receipts come from Dividends, Interest receipts, Spectrum charges, RTI application fee, purchase of forms/magazines by students and many other such payments by citizens/ corporate/other users.