 1188 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 65 Use of rohida Tecomella undulata tree leaves to treat gynological problem Volume 2, page 519 Rohida Hindi: rugtrora; Marathi: rakhtreora, rakhtrohida, rakhtroda; Sanskrit: rohi Rohida tree Tecoma undulata G. Don Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Active ingredients Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK The bark of young branches is employed for the treatment of syphilis and eczema. Preliminary investigations have shown that the bark possesses mild relaxant, cordiotonic, and choleretic activities. A deciduous, ornamental shrub or a small tree, found in the drier parts of the north-west and western India, extending eastwards to the river Yamuna and ascending to an altitude of 1,200 m in the outer Himalayas. It is usually a shrub, found in small patches, but when cultivated it may grow as high as 12 m with a girth up to 2.4 m. Leaves oblong or linear-oblong; flowers pale yellow to deep orange, arranged in few-flowered, corymbose racemes on short, lateral branches; capsules slightly curved, smooth, seeds winged. 77 Use of alvadora, giloe and bilva to cure jaundice Volume 2, page 522 bilva Refer ITK Code No. 263 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name 80 Use of masa root, nagfani root, somili root and leaves for treatment of piles Volume 2, page 522 Somili Assamese: liluwani, raturmani; Bengali: chun-hali, kunch; Gujarati: chanothi, gunja; Hindi: ganchi, gunchi, rati; Kannada: ganji, gul-ganju, guluganji, madhuka; Malayalam: kunni, kunnikuru; Marathi: chanoti, gunchi, gunja; Oriya: gunja, runji; Punjabi: labrigunchi, ratak; Sanskrit: gunja; Tamil: gundumani, kuntumani; Telugu: guruginia, guruvenda. Crab's eye, Indian liquorice, jequirity Abrus precatorius Linn. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Active ingredients Geographical indications Seeds The roots, leaves and seeds are used medicinally. The root possesses diuretic, tonic and emetic properties and are used in preparations prescribed for gonorrhoea, jaundice and haemoglobinuric bile. The leaves are used as raw vegetables (or) eaten with betel leaf. Decoction of the leaves is widely used for cough, cold and colic. Powdered seeds are said to disturb the uterine functions and prevent conception in women. A winding climber with glabrescent, mostly greenish yellow young branches, found throughout India, ascending to an altitude of about 1,050 m in the outer Himalayas. Leaves 5— 17 jugate, leaflets ovate, obovate or oblong; inflorescence rigid, thick, strongly falcate; flowers crowded, sub-sessile, pale-purple to yellowish; pods rectangular, bulgy; seeds ovoid, scarlet with a black spot round the hilum, or Habit black with a white spot, or uniformly black, or white, glossy.