 Checks A minimum of three check varieties, comprising following shall be used. (i) National check: A variety being grown over a wide range of environments/areas for a fairly long period of time (wherever available). It would serve as the yardstick to measure the extent of improvement over time and across country/regions. (ii) Zonal check: The latest released variety for the zone and the ecology. (iii) Local check: A variety popularly grown in a given region/ecology/environment of the trial location. (iv) Qualifying entries: These are co-entries in the same trial and have been tested for the same number of years. (v) Additional checks: May be included, wherever felt necessary. (vi) The national (wherever available), zonal and local checks shall remain the same for a minimum period of three years to enable comparison with the same test entries. Any new check added in between should be in addition to the national, zonal and local checks in the trials with the same test genotypes with which conducted in the previous years, i.e. IVT or AVT-I. 4. Source and quality of seeds of entries Genetically pure and true-to-type seeds, conforming to minimum seed certification standards, shall be used in trials. The agencies responsible for maintenance/multiplication, as indicated below, shall ensure that supplied seed quality conforms to the minimum seed certification standards. (i) Test entries: The breeder/sponsoring institution/organization/company would supply seed and 3 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS would ensure that it conforms to germination and physical purity standards equivalent to the minimum seed certification standards of the crop. (ii) National/Long-term checks: The required seed quantity has to be produced and arranged by the concerned coordinating centre/institution/organization, and the Project Coordinator has to facilitate timely supply of the requisite quantity. (iii) Zonal checks: The seeds of the latest released variety are to be made available by the concerned breeder(s)/institution/organization, and Project Coordinator needs to facilitate their timely supply in the required quantity. (iv) Local checks: Seeds of local checks are to be supplied by the Project Coordinator/concerned breeder/institution/organization. 5. Plot size, number of replications and field layout (i) The trials shall be so laid out to enable detection of yield difference of 5-10% as significant at 5% level. (ii) The experimental design, plot size and number of replications shall be decided in the workshop on the basis of the experience gained from the past trials over years, to reduce experimental error to bare minimum and enabling detection of minimum difference specified under (i) above. (iii) Plot size and number of replications shall be same uniformly at all the test locations/zone/ecology. (iv) The experiment shall be laid out in a well leveled field of uniform fertility. (v) All replications shall be accommodated in the same field.