 It is needed that India keeps investing in R&D and innovative technologies for quality improvement and sustaining its RCA in long run. Statistics and Computer Applications Statistical methodologies/tools/techniques developed and updated Variance balanced structurally incomplete row- column designs: Methods of construction for obtaining pairwise and/or variance balanced SIRC (structurally incomplete row-column)/BILS (balanced incomplete latin square) designs were obtained. An R code for generating the information matrix given the layout of a design was also developed. Network designs for agroforestry: In agroforestry experiments, different species of trees may interact spatially, and experimental plots may be connected through a network of trees which would create non- directional adjacency effects on a plot and give rise to Tree network effect on the crop. A class of variance balanced network designs for the estimation of direct as well as network effects of trees from adjacent plots has been obtained. High dimensional genomic data: Proposed an ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 128 SOCIAL SCIENCE efficient approach for detecting outlier in high dimensional genomic data; the approach is p-value based combination methods to produce single p-value for detecting the outliers. Robustness of the approach was tested using simulated data through the evaluation measures like precision, recall, etc. Significant improvement in the performance of genomic prediction was obtained by detecting the outliers and handling them accordingly through our proposed approach using real data. Non-parametric statistical tools for genomic selection: Genomic selection (GS) is the most prevalent method in today’s scenario to access the genetic merit of individual under study. Impact of genetic architecture on genomic prediction accuracy was explored and comparative performance of the few most commonly used non-parametric methods for complex genetic architecture i.e. non-additive, was evaluated using simulated dataset generated at different level of heritability and varying combination of population size. Among several non-parametric methods, SVM outperformed across a range of genetic architecture. Machine-learning algorithm for classification models: Developed, a novel machine-learning algorithm called Multi-Branch Ferns (MBFerns) to build multi- branch ferns (multi-branch decision tree) and to generate key features from training dataset employing Naïve Bayesian probabilistic model as a classifier. The proposed algorithm performs well for general classification problems and extracting actionable knowledge from training data. Hybrid models for identification of DE-genes: Developed a new hybrid model (NBPFCROS) for the identification of DE-genes (differentially expressed).