 Establishment of small processing units for Juice and pickle making of limited or State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 199 heterogeneous stocks. ii. Establishment of mini-grading fruit plant. iii. Cluster approach is useful for small and marginal farmers to procure input and disposal of surplus in areas. iv. Use of common resources on custom hire basis viz. Power tiller, Mini thresher etc. Strategy 5: Waste land development and waste water i. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. ii. Plantation of Mulberry plants, Wild fruit plants, Fodder trees (Bheemal, Alnus, Celtis, Oak) may be promoted. iii. Development of soil bunds to save excessive loss of nutrients in wasteland iv. Construction of trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off. v. Construction check dam and artificial structure to maximize water percolation rate in marginal and denudated areas. Strategy 6: Reduced cultivation cost i. Encourage use of well decomposed FYM or vermicompost, biofertilizers and avoid or minimum use of chemical fertilizers. ii. Avoid broadcasting of seeds and fertilizers in crop production program iii. Encourage optimum and recommended seed rate at optimum spacing and depth. iv. Promoting use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Paddy threshers, Wheat threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/ power operated Wheat/Paddy reapers v. Promotion of mulch (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. Strategy 7: Off-farm income i. Encouraging SHG’s, NGO’s for promotion of agriculture based economy by developing small scale enterprise (Candle making, Pickle making, Jam & Jelly making), ii. Promotion of Beekeeping for small and landless farmers. iii. Promotion of Dingri and button mushroom for small land holders in Solan and Simour belts owing to nearness to commercial market. Strategy 8: Enabling Policies i. Extending MSP for more number of crops including all fruit crops and other crops. ii. Establishment of mandatory meterological/ observatory at block level to get first hand information of climatic changes. iii. Development of crop insurance scheme for more crops including hail storm attack in stone and pome fruits. iv. Establishment of wood bank to meet the present and future demand of germplasm in State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 200 horticultural crops. v. Extending soil health card scheme for each farmers. Strategy 9: Marketing and value addition i. Popularisation of Cooperative societies as a tool of marketing channels for various commodities. ii. Promotion of better transportation facilities with provision of cold chain van at Block level. iii. Establishment of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. iv. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at block level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. v.