com For Subscription and Advertisement contact: J P Upadhye In-charge, Business Unit, DKMA, ICAR Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657 e-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com A CCORDING to NCDC, 60% of the prevailing infectious diseases and 75% of the emerging ones have a zoonotic nature, and thus maintaining human health, has interdependence on animal diseases as well. Realizing the scenario of COVID-19, antibiotic-resistant microbes, scientists and policy makers are looking for an integrated approach for dealing with human health risks through prevention, early detection or diagnosis and institutional mechanisms for implementing One Health approach. Realizing the risks, the Indian Government has initiated a mega consortium on One Health. This programme envisages carrying out surveillance of important bacterial, viral and parasitic infections of zoonotic as well as transboundary pathogens in India, including the North-eastern part of the country. The use of existing diagnostic tests and the development of additional methodologies, when required, are mandated for the surveillance and for understanding the spread of emerging diseases. The One Health consortium consists of AIIMS, New Delhi; AIIMS, Jodhpur; IVRI, Bareilly; GADVASU, Ludhiana; TANUVAS, Chennai; MAFSU, Nagpur; Assam agricultural and veterinary university and many more ICAR, ICMR centres and wildlife agencies. At the international level, the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO), the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE) and the World Health Organization (WHO), under their tripartite agreement and in collaboration with the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF) and the World Bank, have developed a joint strategic framework to implement the One Health approach. The G20 Countries are also the hub for innovative technologies, science and knowledge and can lead the world's One Health mission. Therefore, ICAR took initiative to organize a Technical Workshop on ‘One Health: Challenges and Opportunities’ as a part of India’s G20 Presidency under the aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India at Bengaluru from 29-31 August 2023. The outcome of this workshop has opened new avenues of research on intensification of disease monitoring and surveillance, preparedness for mitigating emerging and transboundary diseases across the globe. E DITORIAL One Health: Challenges and Opportunities (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 November 2023 New high-yielding sugarcane varieties for north-west zone Divya Chaudhary1* and Anand Singh Jeena1 1Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar, Uttarkhand 263 145 Sugarcane is the primary source of sugar in India and serves as the main cash crop. It is cultivated in both tropical and sub-tropical regions across the country.