 Similarly, R&D activities on bio-intensive pest management strategies for different crops need to be intensified. yy There is a dearth of proper marketing strategy, which hampers timely disposal of produce from protected cultivation. For mitigation, clustering of protected cultivation may be promoted, especially, in periurban areas. Further, input hubs need to be developed in PPP mode. yy A large section of farmers are still avers to protected cultivation. Despite a significant increase in area under protected cultivation in recent years, the country lags well behind the neighbouring China in its adoption. In addition, there is apprehension that it will be adopted by the large, educated and progressive farmers as protected cultivation technology is capital intensive. To address this issue, massive subsidies, especially on low cost protected structures, may be provided to the economically weaker sections of the farming communities. Regular campaigning to popularise the benefits of such technologies may be undertaken in order to convince farmers to adopt such technologies for realising higher incomes. For further interaction, please write to: Hare Krishna (Principal Scientist), Division of Crop Production, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: kishun@rediffmail.com Vertical expansion of nursery under protected conditions using soilless rooting medium An efficient technology for multiplication of clonal rootstock (M-9, MM-106, MM-111, P-22, B-9, M-27) of apple under greenhouse conditions was standardized. The technique involves wounding/incision on branches with diameter of 5 mm at 30 cm above ground level using sharp knife/blade to remove the bark followed by application of 2,500 ppm IBA as rooting hormone. The treatment starts from the second week of June till the last week of August. Small polybags (filled with rooting medium) are fastened at the points where rooting needs to be initiated. A lightweight substrate (cocopeat) having high moisture holding capacity is used as rooting medium. Staking is accomplished with the help of bamboo poles to hold the bags in a proper position and to keep the plants straight. This technology is very useful in promoting the vertical expansion of the nursery in greenhouse conditions and the multiplication of number of plants per unit area has increased by three to four times with minimum utilization of extra inputs and area. One more additional benefit of this technology is that under the greenhouse conditions, the rootstocks attain sufficient girth (> 6 mm) and all the plants are suitable for budding. The technology not only produced the additional 3-4 rootstocks but also the budded plants which have added advantage to this technology.