 Before removing, tie the leaves of the offshoot and clean the base of the offshoot by removing excess soil. Detach the offshoot using a chisel 1. Remove the soil around the offshoot 4. Spray 2000 mg/L IBA on peeled part 7. Sew the bag 2. Remove the dead leaves around the offshoot 5. Prepare mixture of sand with FYM or vermicompost (1:1 ratio) 8. Arrange irrigation for the offshoots 3. Peel the outer surface of the offshoot 6. Tie plastic bag around the offshoot and fill the media accordingly 9. After 4-6 months, roots emerge and are ready for transplanting Preparation of date palm offshoots January–February 2022 31 1. Offshoots are ready for transplanting 4. Remove the offshoot from the mother plant using chisel and hammer 7. Plant the offshoot with maximum girth at the ground level 2. Tie the leaves of the offshoots 5. Dip the cut portion in IBA solution (2000 mg/L) 8. Cover the offshoot with dates leaves or gunny bags 3. Remove the soil around the offshoot 6. Smear the cut portion with fungicide 9. Irrigate the planting Removal and transplanting of date palm offshoot Newly planted offshoots of date palm Indian Horticulture 32 and a hammer. Dip the offshoot in IBA solution (2000 mg/L) for a minute. Smear the cut portion with systematic fungicide. Plant the offshoot in a 1 m × 1 m × 1 m pit and care must be taken that the maximum girth of the offshoot’s bole remains at the ground level. Planting the offshoot too deep may result in entry of water at terminal portion resulting in death. Cover the offshoot with the dates leaves or gunny bags to reduce its transpiration and respiration loss as most of the offshoots are planted in the summer months. Irrigate after planting and keep the soil moist until the plants are set. Care should be taken to keep the cut clean and it should not be deep enough that it damages the mother plant. The cut section of mother plant should be treated with systemic fungicide and covered with the soil to avoid pest/disease attack. One-third of the leaves of the offshoot are cut during transportation and planting to reduce the transpiration and respiration rate. Transplanting in the month of March-April is preferable and must not be done in winter as it increases the chances of mortality. Preferable distance of planting in date palm is 8 m × 8 m and 9 m × 9 m in a pit of 1 m × 1 m. Post care after transplanting Transplanted offshoots should not be disturbed to prevent any root damage. It should be protected from extreme heat, cold and wind (by covering with date leaves or green net). Mild irrigation should be provided daily up to 5-6 weeks of transplanting. Spray of systemic fungicide on the new emerging leaves after one month of plantation reduces changes of spoilage of terminal leaves. Success story The most important impact of this technique was the selection of elite palm by the farmers and its further multiplication through offshoots which led the production of quality fruits in bulk.