 Policymakers must also focus on creating enabling environments that promote the use of soil resource information in land management strategies. *Corresponding author email: hrittick.biswas@icar.gov.in Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ` 700.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” This book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel. For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been compiled in this monogram. This will be of immense value to the researchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 14 January 2025 Rainwater conservation, management and governance in rainfed areas K. V. Rao*, R. Rejani and S. Deepika ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 The success of rainfed agriculture depends on the rainfall availability and its distribution. In semi- arid regions, erratic rainfall patterns and prolonged dry spells during crop growing season results in severe moisture stress and lowers crop productivity. Hence, rainwater conservation practices including in-situ moisture conservation to increase the soil moisture availability and construction of water harvesting structures to ensure groundwater recharge and supplemental irrigation requirement are very important. In addition to the traditional knowledge of water management in watersheds, modern techniques like soil moisture-based (IoT) micro-irrigation technique increases the water-use efficiency. It is the need of the hour to implement sustainable solutions to address the water crisis in both rural and urban areas. However, the effectiveness of these practices depends on coordinated governance and community involvement. Keywords: Groundwater sharing, In-situ moisture conservation, Rainfed areas, Water harvesting I N rainfed areas, the delay in onset of monsoon, uneven distribution of rainfall, early withdrawal of monsoon and prolonged dry spells during crop growing season results in severe moisture stress, lowers crop productivity or even crop failure. Rainwater conservation is very crucial in India, where water scarcity and erratic rainfall patterns are prevalent and it is a need to address the climate change to ensure water security for both urban and rural areas.