 (iii) Traditional method of collection of matured singhada in water Generally after 7-8 pickings singhada vines die naturally. Growers prefer to take raw singhada to vegetable market for sale to fetch good price, or they allow the singhada to ripe on the vine. Kartika month or November when all the vines dry and singhada floats in water and settles down on the tank-bed. The farmers have evolved an indigenous way to collect singhada by using Bardan or gunny bags. Bardan having length of 7-10 feet and 4-5 feet width is tied with a string and finally is tied with boat or gharnai. Some small stone is tied or put at both the sides in the middle and at the end of bardan or gunny bag. This adjustment should have tapering position. Collections are done from one corner to the last corner of the water-body. Most of the singhada Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator attaches with bardan. This practice is repeated thus singhada float in water are being collected. These are exposed to sun- rays for natural drying. Hard coating of dried singhada is removed by slight beating and sold in the market. Its consumer uses in different ways are: (i) in marriage ceremony singhada are being distributed as symbol of happiness; (ii) ladies prepare sugar of singhada flour in butter, oil and sugar; (iii) consumed by ladies as a remedy of gynaecological problems; (iv) for worshiping, singhada is also used; (v) ripened raw water chestnuts are consumed; and (vi) phoola is prepared by roasting singhada in hot sand and it is used during worship in temples. (vii) Dry singhada is crushed to powder form, and then singhada savaia are prepared. It is used as sagar on fasting days. 5. Economics of singhada cultivation As per rough estimates of growers, its cost of cultivation is about Rs 50,000/ha. This includes contractual charges paid for tank, seed; vine cost or care, and picking also. Returns depend on many factors. In the market price fluctuation is very severe. Returns may vary from Rs 1 lakh to 1.5 lakhs/ha. Besides, singhada growers do the cultivation of cucurbits under preserved moisture in tank-bed, soils and keeps themselves busy for the entire year. Keywords: singhada (water chestnut) Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3032 Horti-silvicultural system for sustainable production of fruits, vegetables, spices and timber 3033 Using local fruit trees for sustainable waste land management Aadi tribes of many villages such as Balek and Nait of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh have developed horti-silvicultural system for conserving and utilizing the natural resources.