 Nucleotide sequencing of the 5' and 3' ends of a RAPD-DNA fragment using M13 forward and reverse primer resulted in sequence ladder, which resolved 230 bases from the RAPD primer binding site. The partial sequence determined was 232 bp from the 5', and 110 bp from the 3' end of the fragment. Haemorrhagic Septicaemia Epidemiological survey and prevalence of different serotypes of Pasteurella multocida resulted in identification of serotypes, viz. A : 1, A : 3, A : 1, 3, A : 3, 4, A : 4, A : 3, 4, 12, B : 2, D : 1, D : 3, F : 1, F : 3, F : 3, 4, F : 4, 12 from cattle, l Vaccine against Salmonella Abortus- equi was prepared. l Rajasthan –98 strain of EHV-I was the most virulent pathotype. l Zero level achieved in EIA infection in equines in India. l Antitrypanosomal potentiality of Lantana camara needs more investigation. l PCR tests were standardized for Babesia equi infection in equine and trypanosomiasis infection in camel. l Dwarf and Naked neck gene lines showed antibody titres higher than pure lines. ECO-PATHO ZONES Identification and delineation of livestock health specific eco-patho zones based on the endemicity of disease profile during 1987 to 2002, was worked out. This is a unique and intensive effort as the present agro ecozones are based on plant production system and there are no similar approaches to demarcate the country into livestock disease based zones. A five- stage approach was conceived to identify disease specific national eco-patho zones. The first phase is now being accomplished using statistical methods and GIS technology. INDIGENOUS MEDICINES The Delonix regia, popularly known as Gul-mohar, has promising medicinal activity and the studies conducted at the IVRI, using various experimental models, with flavonoid-rich fraction of flowers of the plant revealed significant anti- inflammatory and analgesic (pain killing) activities, thereby suggesting its potential use in inflammatory conditions. Studies conducted on several fractions derived from medicinal plants, IVR-8 and IVR-9 (coded fractions) showed significant inhibitory effect on the motility of Fasciola gigantica (liverfluke), and paralytic effects on the parasite. These fractions show good promise as anthelmintic compounds. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 111 buffalo, sheep, goat, pig, chicken, quail, duck, lion, tiger, dog and leopard. The field isolates were characterized by biochemical tests, toxin production and antibiotic resistance. A repository on Pasteurella multocida isolates from different species of animals was established, and currently it is maintaining more than 250 isolates collected from different parts of the country. PM-PCR, HSB-PCR, multiplex PCR and nested PCR for P. multocida serotype A specific and serotype B : 2; B : 2, 5; B : 5 were standardized for identification of P. multocida. A new set up primers for serotype A were developed which amplified a product of ~564 bp.