 This is a hardy species can tolerate wide fluctuations in water quality parameters and hence, can be incorporated as an important species in the polyculture system. However, quality seed is the major problem. At ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna we have innovated semi-artificial breeding technique and through this large-scale seed production can be possible. The standardization of this breeding method may be considered a milestone for the propagation of this species at farmers’ fields. It is believed that the findings of this article would motivate fish breeders and farmers of all categories of fish species in aquaculture systems. Besides, the generation of seeds at farmers’ farms, this technique will reduce reliance on seed supply. It is also stressed the need of a more systematic research programme on food and feeding habits, reproductive biology and habitat preference of this species which can lead to much improvement in the whole structure of this species. *Corresponding author’s email: kamalsarma67@yahoo.co.in Inducing hormone injecting to mature Anabas testudineus Fertilized egg and newly hatched larvae of Anabas testudineus under microscope Indian Farming 29 July 2023 Goat health and sustainable goat farming in eastern India Rashmi Rekha Kumari, Pankaj Kumar*, Manoj Kumar Tripathi and Jaspreet Singh Bihar Veterinary College, Bihar Animal Sciences University, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Goat farming has been a source of income for the resource-poor. It has vast potential as a startup and entrepreneurship with value addition and organic milk. The importance of goat milk has caught attention with recent outbreaks of dengue fever and the COVID-19 pandemic. Goat is a hardy animal with minimal investment for taking up goatary. Understanding health and management problems and their remedial measures can further sustain goat farming and enhance income. Farmers should be aware of important health management related to diseases like PPR (Peste des petits ruminants), ORF (Contagious ecthyma), endoparasitism, urinary stones, etc. commonly challenged in goat herds. However, these challenges can be easily overcome if suitable measures and understanding are attained. Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Farming, Health, Profitable G oat rearing plays a vital role in the socio-economic development of rural households. Goat is rightly referred to as ‘Poor man’s Cow’, ‘ATM’ owing to their multi-dimensional use as meat, milch and wool/fiber animal and instant market for cash sales. Goat rearing is mainly restricted to marginal and small farmers except for a few scattered startups as commercial goat farms. Goat can survive on multiple unwanted shrubs and trees in challenging environments and unproductive lands. Apart from this, goats are considered to be among the most efficient domestic animals in water use efficiency nearing camels. It is also heat stress tolerant compared to other domestic species.