 The machine is useful for the banana growers for in situ disposal of banana stems in the field. Automation of sowing vegetable seeds in pro- tray: In the recent past, the commercial vegetable growers prefer pro-tray grown seedlings over conventional one for easy transportation and manual transplantation. In the conventional practices, initially, growing media is filled in pro-tray cells and single vegetable seeds like tomato, brinjal, chilly, etc. are sown in each cell of the pro-tray with the help of women labourers. Since, the size of seed is very small, it is difficult to separate them as a single seed, which makes the operation more monotonous and strenuous. A fully automatic vegetable pro-tray seeder has been developed. It consists of main frame, vacuum generating machine, seed picking box with needles, seed tray, pneumatic accessories, solenoids and PLC. The performance of the seeder was evaluated for sowing tomato seeds. About 110 pro-trays can be ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 108 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT sown in an hour, which could increase the capacity by 38%. The cost of the automatic pro-tray seeder is ₹2,50,000. Small power thresher for buckwheat crop: Buckwheat is mostly cultivated at higher elevation and hilly areas. Threshing of buckwheat is a tedious job. A small power thresher suitable for buckwheat crop has been developed. It consists of frame, spike tooth cylinder, concave, aspirator blower, reciprocating sieve, shaft and power transmission system. At optimum conditions, threshing efficiency of 99.21%, cleaning efficiency of 97.25%, broken seeds percentage of 0.44% and total seeds losses of 1.13% were obtained at cylinder speed of 10.5 m/s, concave clearance of 25 mm and concave grade opening 16 mm. The throughput capacity of the thresher was 234 kg/h. The cost of threshing was ₹22.4 per quintal of the crop. The saving in threshing cost, time and man power requirement by using developed thresher was 60.2%, 82.9% and 65.6%, respectively as compared to the traditional manual threshing method. Chickpea leaf harvester: Nipping in chickpea is one of the key practices for the improvement of yield and yield contributing factors. It also helps to improve the number of branches, pods and growth rate. A chick pea leaf harvester has been developed. It consists of engine, frame, cutting unit, conveying unit, storage and power transmission unit. The maximum harvesting efficiency was observed at forward speed 1.0 km/h, 150 mm cutting height and at blower air velocity of 4 m/s for chickpea. The field capacity of the machine was found as 0.051 ha/h. The harvesting efficiency, cleaning efficiency was 96.82% and 95.21%, respectively. The machine capacity was observed to be 0.127 tonnes/h, as compared to 0.013 t/h in traditional method. The chickpea yield was not affected by use of mechanical harvester. The cost of harvesting chickpea leaves using developed harvester was ₹3,259/ha with 90% labour saving.