 In our effort, to reach out to the common man regarding this stupendous effort and contribution of ICAR, it is time that we promote the brand ICAR through effective media management. These branding attributes give the product disposition and voice position the attention of stakeholders’ mind, and give them the feel-good experience whenever they come in contact with the brand ICAR. Even with quality offerings of products and impressive services, a brand is not going to thrive and grow without its visibility. It is necessary that the product or service be placed in front of the right people/ customers to make a flip. Eventually, the product should be visible/ seen at all places and in all situations. Keeping in view enhancing brand ‘ICAR’, efforts have been made to develop the ‘ICAR Guidelines for Promoting Brand ICAR’ with a view that all the ICAR institutes to uniformly adhere to these guiding principles. This publication provides the details and modalities to enhance brand ‘ICAR’ across the globe. It has been ably compiled by the Committee and I do hope that this document will provide a clear-cut guideline to enhance the brand values of the ICAR and its technologies. (T. MOHAPATRA) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001 iii  PREFACE Visibility and credibility are two major factors contributing to the pride of any organization. Both these factors are also important to various stakeholders associated with that organization and contribute to their brand as well. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, through different successful endeavours, has become globally renowned for agricultural technologies to enhance agricultural productivity. Various Institutes/Directorates/NRCs/KVKs/Bureaus etc. have developed niche in their specific professional areas benefiting Indian agriculture. However, it was felt that having one brand ‘ICAR’ would help spreading developed technologies and human resource in a wider geographical areas and reaching clients with more confidence. It was also felt that there is a great potential in improving the ‘ICAR’ brand visibility if consolidated and well-planned efforts are put in by its different functionaries. The goal being the council’s technology, protocol, methodology, manpower or a consumer item, should stand out in its respective market/ ecosystem. Various types of efforts are put in by different constituent bodies of the Council to popularize their outputs. Advantage of the some such successful endeavours could be useful to the other functionaries of the council and congruent efforts would help building visibility and credibility on a very large platform. Also, there have been different guidelines and formats issued by the council at different times and different context; which may not be readily available at one place. Changing technologies have given rise to many more platforms over which a brand has to be endorsed.