 Two studies on how repeal of APMC Act (especially in Bihar) contributed in better price discovery and how agricultural insurance facilitates adoption of improved technologies are in the stage of further analysis this year. Under POSHAN, work will continue in thematic areas related to strengthening data for decision-making on nutrition and multi-sectoral actions for nutrition. The team will continue to work in the direction of preparing various POSHAN knowledge products under its four thematic areas: data, financing, strengthening implementation and working across sectors. Under CRP on ‘Policies, Institutions and Markets’ (PIM), studies are also in progress on to assess the role of innovative institutional arrangements (self-help groups, contract farming, cooperatives and farmer producer organizations). ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 48 The SAO is also participating in a five-year program called the Bangladesh Integrated Food Policy Research Program (BIFPRP). By combining policy research with capacity strengthening to tackle all four aspects of food security—availability, access, utilization, and stability—the program intends to usher in a new phase of addressing food security in Bangladesh. IFPRI-SAO is assisting IFPRI’s Agricultural Science and Technology Indicators (ASTI) program which collects data on institutional developments, investments and human capacity in agricultural research in developing countries worldwide. The office in New Delhi will support in producing a number of interactive models depicting trends and challenges in agricultural research and development, investment and capacity in India, Bangladesh, Nepal and Pakistan. To initiate further research opportunities from time to time South Asia office, interacts with policymakers, researcher and donors. IFPRI brings in ground realities from field, past and current regional experience and international perspective to list regions research priorities and policy directions. IFPRI office in South Asia also had active engagement participation at various levels with private sector by constant interaction with numerous associations. Capacity building programs: Several capacity building programs have been and are in the process to be organized to enhance policy analysis capacity of researchers in ICAR institutes, and SAUs in area related to impact assessment, value chain analysis, priority setting, monitoring and evaluation, agricultural trade analysis, DERAM Model to assess impact. 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES Numerous projects and activities will be in progress as part of this year’s work plan. The Technical Assistance and Research for Indian Nutrition and Agriculture (TARINA) project focuses in Bihar, Odisha and eastern Uttar Pradesh with high burden of malnutrition and relatively underdeveloped agriculture.