 • Lemon grass cultivation provides livelihood security to farmers as well as rural women. Lemon grass farmers can also set up their own FPO (Farmer Producer Organization) and Lemon grass oil extraction plant with the help of district administration. • Lemon grass is also climate resilient plant as it requires little water, can grow on stony land, and helps in both soil and water conservation. It also improves soil health as it can be cultivated by applying farmyard manure. • Lemon grass has capacity to convert large barren land into fertile land. Role of Lemon grass cultivation in income generation and livelihood security Because of multiple benefits and popularity of Lemon grass cultivation, KVK-Amroha attempted replacing farmer’s practice with improved veriety of lemon grass for enhanced income. Mrs. Hitesh, a farm woman of village Chakchhavi, district Amroha, was given demonstrations of high-yielding variety of Lemon grass 'Krishna'. She was regularly imparted knowledge regarding improved cultivation of Lemon grass starting from land preparation to harvesting. KVK, Amroha also encouraged her for soil testing and on the basis of results, she was advised for balanced dose of vermicompost with high yielding variety 'Krishna Lemon grass', which was sown in 2021 as per scientist’s recommendation in external input regime covering nine hectares. The performance of traditional and high yielding lemon grass variety for oil production is given below in Table 1. Table 1. Performance of high yielding variety of Lemon grass 'Krishna' Particular Traditional method Scientific method (using improved variety) 1st Cutting quantity 12 litre 20 litre 5th Cutting quantity 60-70 litre 100-105 litre Annual income (`) 90,000-1,05,000 1,00,000-1,60,000 Increment 40% Outscaling of Success Considering the success achieved by Mrs. Hitesh, the cultivation of Lemon grass was spread across other nearby villages. Currently, 19 villages have adopted cultivation in 175 hectares of land and 300 farmer’s field planted with scientific method using high yielding variety of Lemon grass 'Krishna'. The outcome of this technology dissemination motivated the farming communities to replace their traditional cultivation method with scientific method and high-yielding variety. of volatile oils. Lemon grass is monocotyledon and grows up to height of 6 feet in clusters. It has a lengthy inflorescence which ranges from 30-60 cm. This aromatic grass has specific floral arrangement hence derived the name ‘Cymbopogon’. Lemon grass cultivation: Low cost, high profit The cultivation of lemon grass is proving to be beneficial for the farmers who are making profit of up to one lakh per year in one acre, compared to meagre one- time initial investment of ¥20,000. One of the important economic traits of Lemon grass is that once it is planted, the crop can be easily harvested for about five years. Its multi-cutting does not involve any cost except for additional irrigation.