 In disease management Cynodon dactylon extract was little effective in the management of wilt, leaf curl and fruit-root disease. Conclusion Cynodon dactylon extract was not effective compared with 0.05% endosulfan spray in controlling fruit borer. But Cynodon had some effect in reducing the fruit borer incidence. In disease management against wilt, leaf curl and early blight, Cynodon dactylon extract showed reduction compared with untreated control. 5.2 Use of kochila (Strychnos nux-vomica)-mixed cowdung compost in brinjal for controlling fruit and shoot borer Description of the ITK Cowdung, 10 kg kochila (Strychnos nux-vomica) seed powder and 25 kg kochila leaf are put in a compost pit of 10x3x3 feet by mixing thoroughly. Then 10 litres cow urine is added to the pit for 10 consecutive days and covered with soil. After 2 months the compost becomes ready. This compost (5 g) is added to each plant once at the time of sowing and at 45 days after planting. Due to its repellent action, incidence of shoot and fruit borer is reduced. Name and address of the discloser Shri Bivison Pradhan, Badakodanda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam, (Odisha) 761 126. Location of use of the ITK Badakodanda, Bhanjanagar.Ganjam (Odisha) 761 126, OUAT, Bhubaneshwar. 15 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Experimenters 1. Dr. A.K. Das, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture, Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubnaneshwar 751 003 (Odisha); Shri N. Nayak, Training Organiser, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhanjanagar (Odisha); Shri D. Maohapatra, Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Barachana (Odisha) 2. BCKV, Mohanpur (West Bengal); Dr. S.K. Mandal, Professor, Department of Entomology, BCKV, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal), Dr. S.K. Naskar, Head, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Regional Centre, Bhubaneshwar (Odisha). Results and discussion During 2003-04 the overall fruit- and shoot-borer incidence was less compared with 2002-03 but the trend was maintained in both the years. The pooled results revealed that with the use of kochila enriched cowdung the incidence was reduced in shoot and fruit borer by 3.92 and 4.89% respectively. Tobacco-soaked water harboured relatively higher proportion of shoot damage (5.48%).The ITK treatment of kochila cowdung compost although recorded much better and superior performance but was less effective than the pesticide application remaining almost at par. Hence, owing to the fact that the pesticides applied to the crop have residual effects on the fruits and responsible for health hazards, the ITK practice may be preferred. More over the yield per plant and yield per ha under ITK treatment and pesticide schedule treatment in both the years, it showed similar trends. Tobacco- soaked water harboured relatively higher proportion of shoot damage. Results revealed that kochila -mixed with cowdung compost used by farmers through generations would be promising for controlling fruit and shoot borer in brinjal.