 Actual advantages from DSR Direct-seeding of rice has the potential to provide numerous advantages to farmers and the environment when compared to conventional practices involving puddling and transplanting. The following are the listed benefits: • Sowing can be completed within allotted time due to simpler and quicker planting. • Crops mature 7–10 days’ sooner than usual (115–120 days), allowing for the timely planting of successive harvests. • Improved water management and a greater ability to withstand water stress. • Reduces cultivation time, energy and cost. • No plant stress from transplanting. • More profitability especially under assured irrigation facilities. • Improve soil physical conditions. • Reduce methane emission: DDS (dry direct seeding)<WDS (wet direct seeding)<PTR (Transplanted rice). • Increases total income by reducing cost of cultivation. Constraints of DSR Despite their potential benefits, DSR encounters certain limitations. One of the major challenges is the susceptibility to high weed infestation, particularly with weed species that are hard to manage. Farmers must be informed about crop rotation techniques and methods for managing herbicide resistance in order to prevent these negative effects. When rice is grown directly from seed, weeds appear in different flushes and cause issues. Because of this, the DSR mandates the use of herbicides, but farmers need additional guidance on how to do so safely and responsibly. DSR system at tillering stage DSR system before panicle emergence stage Indian Farming 14 September 2023 Inappropriate use of herbicides could lead to the development of herbicide resistance in weed species, which would have severe impacts on agricultural costs and yields. Way forward Currently, DSR is emerging as an option, owing to water availability, shortage of labour and the need to reduce GHG emissions. The method has been shown to be economically advantageous and farmer-friendly, but it still needs technological advancement to reap the full benefits. The following points are suggested for consideration to the scientists, extension officers and policy makers: • More research is required on development of high yielding rice cultivars suitable for DSR in various agro-climatic situations. • To ensure the availability of agro-inputs, laser land levellers, zero till machines, LCCs, and cono weeders at affordable prices, a cooperative society with a cluster of villages needs to be strengthened. • Weedy rice is becoming a concern in DSR, particularly in canal irrigated areas. It is imperative to handle this threat strategically. • Due to the high level of technicality involved in herbicide application, rice farmers must get instruction about sprayer calibration, herbicide preparation, the significance of flat fan/flood zet nozzles and mode of application, and precautions.