 If the queens are present, then grafted frame should be placed in upper chamber of two storey colonies with queen excluder, so that the queen cannot move into this chamber. Extraction, storage and processing: After 72 hours of grafting, the cells are cut at the level of royal jelly with sharp blade. The larvae are thrown out and royal jelly may be extracted with a spatula/aspirator/ water vacuum pump. The extracted royal jelly is filtered by using fine nylon net and is immediately stored in a glass or food grade plastic. It has a limited shelf life and can be stored in household under deep freezer. Freeze dried royal jelly is found in powder form. It is obtained by evaporating the water content from the frozen product in a vacuum, for which some special equipment are required ranging from a simple laboratory freezer drier to large industrial plants. The freeze dried royal jelly must be stored in air tight container to protect it from the humidity. If the royal jelly is not harvested from these artificial queen cells and these frames remain in hive for 10 days, then queen cell will be sealed and queen will emerge after 4–5 days. The queen cell can be used for requeening of queen less colonies or in colony where queen bee has become old and replacement of queen is required. In this case, the recipient colony should have sufficient number of worker bees of all ages, mature drone and sufficient quantity of food reservoir so that queen is treated well in the colony. If the colony has old queen, the colony is made queenless at least 24 hours prior to transplantation. The individual queen cell is cut at the base with sharp knife and placed in recipient colony just adjacent to brood area. For requeening, new queen should be caged in queen cage and plugged with muslin cloth to avoid damage by worker bees due to intolerance. After few hours, workers gather around the cage indicating acceptance of queen bee in the colony. After that, the queen bee is released from the queen cage. Another method is dipping the queen in honey of recipient colony and released it in new queenless colony. Composition Royal jelly is a nutrient rich substance and is strongly acidic in nature. It contains roughly 50–70% water, 17–45% protein, 18–52% sugar (about 90% fructose and glucose), 3.5–19% lipid and 2–3% mineral of dry weight. In protein, all the essential amino acid for humans are present. Besides, it also contains trace minerals, antibacterial and antibiotic components, all vitamin B, trace amounts of vitamin C but none of the fat soluble vitamins, viz. vit A, D, E or K are found. Utility Number of researches suggest that many nutrients present in royal jelly are beneficial to human health. It should be taken daily in very small dose around 250–500 mg as dietary supplement. But the taste of royal jelly is not very pleasant. Therefore, many consumers use it as ingredient in food products. Mixture of honey and royal jelly (1.