 Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa Dr Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa notified by the Gazette of India on 7 October 2016 to be a Central Agricultural University, has presently six faculties, five colleges, seven research institutes/stations and fourteen Krishi Vigyan Kendras. The operational area of DRPCAU, Pusa covers Agro- Climatic Zone-I consisting of East and West Champaran, Siwan, Saran, Gopalganj, Vaishali, Muzaffarpur, Sheohar, Sitamarhi, Darbhanga, Madhubani, Begusarai and Samastipur districts. With 285 total available seats, 265 students were enrolled in different UG and PG programmes with 93% admission. Under UG programme 148 students, in M. Sc. Program out of 98 students and in Ph. D. 18 students. The varieties ‘Rajendra Nilam’ (Rice), ‘Rajendra Dhania-1’ (Coriander) and ‘Rajendra Kauni-1’ (Foxtail millet) were released. A boat-based solar pumping system developed at the university was launched in the river Burhi Gandak at Gorain Ghat of Pusa. The system was developed with the objective of providing a solution to the irrigation related issues of the farmers of diara/ dhab/chaur areas which are spread over 1.5 million ha in Bihar alone. Integrated Bee Keeping Development Centre was established at KVK, Piprakothi, East Champaran (Bihar) with the financial assistance of ` 17.80 million from National Bee Board, New Delhi. Jaggary Processing Unit was inaugurated at KVK, Piprakothi, East Champaran. Seeds: Breeder seed 208 q, Foundation seed 1,079 q, Certified seed 11 q and Truthfully labeled seed 134 q of different paddy varieties were sold during kharif 2017. AGRINNOVATE INDIA LIMITED Agrinnovate India Limited is steadily moving towards meeting its objectives and building ‘A world of Innovative Partnerships’. During 2016-17 the Company has earned Net Profit of ` 21,052,092/- as against Net Profit of ` 24,670,104 in 2015-16. Business development activities AgIn participated in various workshops such as Workshop on Sales, Marketing and Business Development and their integration with other Corporate Functions and departments. The Company also initiated collaboration with various reputed organizations like Asia-Pacific Centre for Technology Transfer and African-Asian Rural Development Organization. Promotional activities with embassies: AgIn has promoted its service to various Embassies located in India which included High Commission of the Republic of Botswana, Embassy of Burundi, Bangladesh High Commission, Embassy of Italy, Embassy of the Republic of Maldives, Mauritius High Commission, etc. The Company also organized the visit of officials from New Zealand Embassy in India to explore the collaboration opportunities. Capacity building programmes: A five days delegation visit for five members from M/s Tigray Biotechnology Centre, Government of Ethiopia was coordinated by AgrInnovate India Limited on behalf of ICAR. The delegation from M/s Tigray Biotechnology Centre visited ICAR Institutes.