 The Global Positioning System (GPS) was utilized to locate the areas where soil samples and information on LULC and vegetation were collected. For accu- racy analysis, about 100 observations were gathered across suitable classiﬁcations. 2.3.1. Preparation of thematic maps • Thematic maps of geology, geomorphology, LULC, LD, slope, soils and the geographical distribution of physicochemical pa- rameters of soils were created using ArcGIS software. • The slope map was developed using data from the NRSC Bhu- van website’s CARTOSAT DEM • Anantapur’s groundwater department created a soil map based on a district soil resource map.. • The LULC layer was created using Landsat 8 OLI/TIRS satellite data, and ERDAS imagine software using supervised classiﬁca- tion. • In the ArcGIS environment, all of the geology, geomorphology, LD, and DD were generated from satellite images. • An aggregate of all the ten thematic layers such as geology, ge- omorphology, soils, LD, slope, LULC, DD, pH, and N-P-K. with them interrelationship, which is inferred to incite land suitabil- ity map (LSM). The AHP weights are increased by the percent- age of total weight to obtain the ﬁnal weight ( Fig. 2 ). 2.4. Multi-criteria decision-making methods (MCDM) analysis The AHP technique based on MCDM was used for the LSA. The LSA process is carried out in six stages in the current study: (1) generation of base maps with other thematic layers, (2) selection 3 B.N. Anusha, K.R. Babu, B.P. Kumar et al. Geosystems and Geoenvironment 2 (2023) 100131 Fig. 2. Methodology ﬂow chart. Table 2 Saaty Scale on relative importance. Scale 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 Importance Equal Weak Moderate Moderate Plus Strong Strong Plus Very Strong Very, Very Strong Extreme of parameters, (3) speciﬁcation of sub-criteria, (4) creation of a pairwise comparison matrix, (5) creation of a uniform pairwise de- cision matrix, and (6) weight estimation. When evaluating the ranks of strong regarding causes, the re- searcher’s knowledge contributions are taken into account. The AHP mechanism makes decisions among parameters that assist ar- range the entire list of variables ( Saaty, 1997 ). The comparison ma- trix aids in the classiﬁcation of the features found in the LSA re- search into different levels of relevance ( Zolekar and Bhagat, 2015 ). The LSA investigations were given weights to better comprehend comparative rank and land physiognomies ( Fig. 2 ). The categorization of land-use requirements was based on FAO (1976) standards. The highest values represent the complete inﬂuence of the sub-condition, while the lowest values indicate the land’s least suited for forestation. The importance of the factor’s geology, geomorphology, DD, LD, percent slope, soil pH, soil nitro- gen, soil phosphorous, and soil potassium were assigned weights. Finally, the LSA map was created using the GIS overlay approach to identify suitable forestation locations for increasing inﬁltra- tion rates and protecting groundwater.