 NSA videos covered the main themes, following UPAVAN’s theory of change (5, 19), of increasing production and diversity of nutritious or income-generating foods, increasing women’s decision- making power in agricultural activities, and reducing workloads for pregnant and breastfeeding women. Quality assurance and monitoring were embedded in the partici- patory video process. Facilitators kept registers to track attendance, whether participants were pregnant or had a child aged 0–23 mo, and whether a government frontline health and nutrition care provider attended the meeting. During home visits, facilitators completed forms to record participants adoption and/or recall of practices promoted in the previous meeting. Nutrition-sensitive and nutrition-specific agriculture intervention (AGRIAGRI-NUT) . This arm used the same participatory video approach as in the AGRI arm, but videos covered both NSA and nutrition-specific topics. The AGRI-NUT group videos received were half NSA videos shown in the AGRI arm and half nutrition-specific videos covering topics on infant and young-child feeding practices and maternal diets. AGRI-NUT + Participatory Learning and Action. This arm used the same participatory video approach as in the AGRI arm but integrated nutrition-specific meetings that followed a Participatory Learning and Action (PLA) approach (using half the NSA videos shown in the AGRI arm and half PLA meetings). In the PLA meetings, the groups followed a 4-phase PLA cycle in which they performed the following tasks: 1) learned about and prioritized nutrition problems; 2) discussed and prioritized the causes, effects, and locally feasible strategies to address these problems within their groups and the wider community; 3) implemented the identified strategies; and 4) informally evaluated the results of their actions and made future plans. The PLA meetings were either interactive discussions without videos (using participatory techniques such as voting, storytelling, and games), or participatory videos on nutrition-specific topics that were developed as part of the PLA process. Therefore, the nutrition-specific videos in the PLA arm were different from those in the AGRI-NUT arm. Control. Those in the control arm (and intervention arms) received standard government services. In addition, the government frontline health and nutrition workers in all 4 arms received 2 d of training on maternal, infant, and young child nutrition. Evaluating coverage and participation Figure 2 describes the populations aimed for inclusion according to the interventions (intervention exposure) and benefit (intervention outcomes). The UPAVAN interventions were primarily designed to include pregnant women and mothers of children aged 0–23 mo (primary intervention participants) and to benefit children aged 0–23 mo, their mothers, and their households.