 Ornamental fish farming in hills The demand of ornamental fishes is increasing remarkably due to their important role in the world trade for fish and fishery production. The export of ornamental fishes from India is worth only US$ 0.2 million, which is not sufficient with regard to the rising demand of these beautiful coloured species in the world ornamental fish market. The Potential ornamental fishes of the coldwater resources are Barilius species, Namacheilus species, Botia species, Puntius species Garra species and also few exotic species are unique for aqua gardening. This diversity is yet to be explored for breeding and culture practice which may have great coldwater ornamental fish value. A germplasm repository of seven cold water ornamental fish species like Barilius, Tor chilinoides, Garra, Schistura, Nemacheilus including exotic gold and koi carp have been established in DCFR, Bhimtal campus. The focus of the technology is to establish culture and breeding of ornamental fishes in the backyard or Kitchen garden in upland rural areas. Depending upon the space and available resource, the unit is established. For establishing a 30 sq feet with 5 feet deep UV resistant polylined tank including labour and input cost is about ` 2,500. Total about 350 fishes can be stocked with a survival of 300 with a sale value @ ` 25/piece in hills is about ` 7,500 with an approximate net income of ` 5,000 per year. The small landholding in the hills with marginal agricultural and allied activities is directly affecting the economic status of the population (Fig. 4). The intervention of ornamental fish culture in the tribal regions will help in upbringing the livelihood opportunities. Ornamental fish keeping in house, hotels, offices are the general practices by much reason (fascination/recreation/aesthetic value) which will create livelihood opportunities in the hill areas. Upland rice-fish culture The rice-fish wetlands are important resources in the state of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Manipur and parts of Assam. A large area in Apatani plateau in Ziro valley of Lower Subansiri district of Arunachal Pradesh, several districts of Nagaland and other Northeastern states is being cultivated under rice-fish culture (Fig. 5 and 6). The fish production in these fields is at present Fig. 4. Ornamental fish farming in hills Indian Farming November 2020 53 is low (215-290 kg/ha) and scientific intervention is required to enhance the productivity. Higher productivity from rice-fish plots can be achieved by stocking bigger size (3-4") of quality fingerlings at appropriate density of fish (1-2 fish/m2) and redesigning proper sized trenches in the field for providing shelter to the fishes. Of course, nutrient and natural fish food available have to be taken into account to decide the practices of organic fertilizers and supplementary feed. There are possibilities to enhance the productivity to 3-4 times.