 Crops: Mango, banana, citrus, papaya, guava, sapota, jackfruit, pineapple, annonas, avocado, aonla, ber and minor fruits of tropics. Unit 2. Subtropical and Temperate Fruit Production Commercial varieties of regional, national and international importance, ecophysiological requirements, recent trends in propagation, rootstock influence, planting systems, cropping systems, root zone and canopy management, nutrient management, water management, fertigation, role of bioregulators, abiotic factors limiting fruit production, physiology of flowering, pollination, fruit set and development, honeybees in cross pollination, physiological disorders – causes and remedies, quality improvement by management practices; maturity indices, harvesting, grading, packing, storage and ripening techniques; industrial and export potential, Agri. Export Zones (AEZ) and industrial supports. Crops: Apple, pear, quince, grapes, plums, peach, apricot, cherries, litchi, loquat, persimmon, kiwifruit, strawberry, walnut, almond, pistachio, hazelnut, mangosteen, carambola, bael, wood apple, fig, jamun, rambutan and pomegranate. Unit 3. Biodiversity and Conservation Biodiversity and conservation; issues and goals, centres of origin of cultivated fruits; primary and secondary centres of genetic diversity; present status of gene centres; exploration and collection of germplasm; conservation of genetic resources – conservation in situ and ex situ. Germplasm conservation – problem of recalcitrancy – cold storage of scions, tissue culture, cryopreservation, pollen and seed storage; inventory of germplasm, introduction of germplasm, plant quarantine; intellectual property rights, regulatory horticulture. Detection of genetic constitution of germplasm and maintenance of core group; GIS and documentation of local biodiversity, geographical indication. Crops: Mango, sapota, citrus, guava, banana, papaya, grapes, jackfruit, custard apple, ber, aonla, Malus & Prunus sp., litchi and nuts. Unit 4. Canopy Management in Fruit Crops Canopy management – importance and advantages; factors affecting canopy development; Canopy types and structures with special emphasis on geometry of planting, canopy manipulation for optimum utilization of light. Light interception and distribution in different types of tree canopies; Spacing and utilization of land area – canopy classification; Canopy management through rootstock and scion; Canopy management through plant growth inhibitors, training and pruning and management practices; Canopy development and management in relation to growth, flowering, fruiting and fruit quality in temperate fruits, grapes, mango, sapota, guava, citrus and ber. 41 Unit 5.