 The information on district agriculture contingency plans available with Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) and the experiences of All India Coordinated Research Project for Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) on real-time contingency measures have to be used for developing sub-district adaptation/drought proofing action plans for implementation by Government Departments. Enhancing the income of rainfed farmers such as compensation payments for natural resource management interventions and ecosystems services is needed. Dissemination of rainfed technologies and agromet advisories including digital extension need altogether a new approach. The role of community-based institutional interventions such as FPOs can be explored for building value chains in rainfed agriculture. Several National and State Government Programmes such as NMSA, MGNREGA, PMKSY, RKVY and NRLM have provisions that facilitate wider upscaling of rainfed technologies and enhancing the livelihoods of rainfed farmers. A broad, inter- institutional, inter-departmental and multi-stakeholder collaboration and linkages is needed for enhancing resilience and livelihoods in rainfed agro-ecosystem. G Enhancing resilience and livelihoods in rainfed agriculture (G. Ravindra Chary) Principal Scientist, ICAR-CRIDA uest edITORIAL Indian Farming 5 January 2025 Challenges and opportunities in rainfed agriculture V. K. Singh* and M. Prabhakar ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Rainfed agriculture sustains billions of people worldwide, particularly in arid and semiarid regions. Variable rainfall is a key issue leading to frequent crop failures. Droughts and other extreme events are expected to intensify further due to global climate change affecting rainfed agriculture. Shallow depth, limited water-holding capacity, poor organic matter content further exacerbate the moisture deficiency coupled with frequent pest outbreak making it difficult for crops to thrive. Early warning systems, drought-tolerant crop varieties, agroforestry, agri-horti systems, improved water management practices and precision agriculture technologies play a key role for protecting rainfed farming. Climate-resilient agriculture practices, technological advancements, policy support, and market diversification can help farmers build resilience and improve their livelihoods. Addressing the challenges and seizing the opportunities requires a concerted effort from governments, farmers, researchers, and civil society organizations. Keywords: Climate change, Climate resilient practices, Drought, Rainfed agriculture R AINFED agriculture, where crops rely solely on natural rainfall for their water needs, sustains billions of people worldwide. It is particularly prevalent in arid and semiarid regions of the developing countries, where it forms the backbone of rural economies.