 Lower use of chemical fertilizers and herbicides has less impact on the environment. This means that no or less use of chemicals is suitable for combating water shortages in agriculture. The indicators selected for this study fall into the five components mentioned above. Indicators are used by considering previous studies with local relevance. For example, the water authority in the villages is not functioning. Most farmers make decisions in small groups or in isolation. The questionnaire also addressed the participatory decision- making aspect of water scarcity. In the present study, minor modifica­ tions compared to the previous studiesproved to be useful. The assign­ ment of weight to parameters was done in two ways: (1) equal weight method and (2) relative weight method. In the present study, an equal weighting method is preferred so that each component is given an equal chance. As shown in Table 1.; the data used is secondary in nature (climate, rainfall, soil data) and most of the data was extracted using a survey method during the use of the questionnaire. The WPI is calculated using the following equation [7,23] WPI = ∑n i=1Wi Yi ∑n i=1Wi = WrR + WaA + WcC + WuU + WeE Wr + Wa + Wc + Wu + We Where WPI is the Water Poverty Index value for a region or area, Yi is component where i represent resources (R), access (A), capacity (C), utilization (U) and environment (E), and Wi is the weight given to the component in question. Here each of the five components is given a weight of 0.2. Although resources and access are very important R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 7 components; other components cannot be ignored in the present study. Farmers in the study area face various problems including limited availability of electricity, high water and soil salinity, low availability of labor and high costs, lower water table, lack of irrigation by canals in summer, strong competition for water surface extraction, etc. [9,26]. Other components are equally important and have been given equal weight. Inside each component; sub-indicators are assigned equal weights, which together contribute to 0.2 weight of the entire component. Each sub-component of the WPI aspects is standardized to have a score between 0 and 100. The highest value, 100, is the best situation, while 0 is the worst. The procedure for standardization is mentioned below. Various sub-components are first classified into two types of in­ dicators. One thing is positive: the higher the starting value of an index, the higher the possible water level. The other is the negative: the lower the primary value of an indicator, the higher the water scarcity. Then the standardization of the positive is as follows: Y1 = (Y −Ymin) (Ymax −Ymin) × 100 Y1 is the normalized value of a positive relationship indicator. Y is the actual value of the indicator. Ymax and Ymin are the maximum and minimum values of the indicators in the total sample.