)/ All VCs 8 Agenda 12: Modernization of Agricultural Universities’ Farms The ADG (EQR) highlighted that the project envisages enhancing the breadth, relevance and quality of education, training and research through modernization of instructional and research farms of the agricultural universities. Under this, a one-time grant to SAUs and CUs with agriculture faculty would be provided for promoting excellence, enhancing relevance and quality of education, training and research and augmenting supply of research products with concomitant resource generation. The grant will be for (i) works related to farm structures and facilities including up-gradation/renovation and (ii) implements/equipments for the AU Farms. For the modernization, the existing land and infrastructure pertaining to the main AU Campus, to start with, would be used. Eventually, such colleges in multi-campii University and regional station of the AUs could also be included which have regional potential strength in terms of resources including land and manpower along with strategic importance. An action plan comprising activity milestones, time frame, and monitorable targets along with demand (spread over three years i.e. 2008-09, 2009-10, and 2010-11) has been obtained from all the AUs for rationalizing the distribution of the grant. He apprised that the grant for the current financial year (2008-09) has already been released to the AUs. It was recommended that the AUs may ensure effective and full utilization of this year’s allocation for the specific purpose of farm modernization. Further, the concern was expressed about the threats to the existing area of farms in AUs, existence of very small farms in some newly established AUs and allocation of grant proportionate to farm area. Action: All VCs Agenda 13: Increasing constituent colleges vs. affiliating private colleges for enhanced access to higher agricultural education ADG (EQR) while putting the agenda explained that several AUs are having affiliated colleges and thus, not conforming to the provisions of the ICAR Model Act. It was opined after the discussion that the AUs should increase the access to higher agricultural education by opening more constituent colleges rather than affiliating private colleges. Further, the AUs may avoid making any reference to their affiliated private college(s) for getting accredited by the ICAR. Action: All VCs Agenda 14: Utilizing RKVY provisions for expansion of teaching research capability of SAUs in identified priority areas DDG (Edu) while putting the agenda explained the provision of additional sum of Rs.500 crores carved out of the RKVY provisions by the Planning Commission to cater to the needs for expansion of teaching facilities and enhancing research capability of SAUs in identified priority areas.