 With this in view, ICAR has intensified efforts towards farmers’ participatory research to develop and scale up location specific, cost effective and climate resilient technologies to enhance agricultural production, productivity and profitability in the agriculture sector and increase farmers’ income. In this regard, a document on State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income – 2022 has been prepared by ICAR. The strategies in the document were focussed with greater emphasis on agri-business through transforming farming into agri-enterprises performing multiple Field day on Green gram in Kaimur Bihar IFS Demo at KVK Jalandhar 27 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 functions at one point of time. The major efforts/achievements made by ICAR during the year are described below: yy Implemented following programmes i) Attracting and Retaining of Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), ii) Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology), and iii) Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (Village adoption by ICAR Scientists) towards enhancing livelihood and incomes of rural mass through location specific comprehensive models for making Agriculture more profitable. yy Each KVK adopted two villages for increasing farmers income. yy Documented ~71000 success stories for doubling farmers’ income. The target set for August 15, 2022 is documentation of 75000 farmers, whose income is doubled. yy Developed four integrated farming system models suitable for Karnataka, Odisha, Telangana and Maharashtra. yy Developed a bio-enhancer CSR-GROSURE formulation comprised of highly efficient salt tolerant bacteria strains CSR-M-16 (Bacillus licheniformis), CSR-A-11 (Lysnibacillus fusiformis), and CSR-A-16 (Lysnibacillus sphaericus) for sodic soils up to pH 9.0. yy Arranged 369 trainings and 507 demonstrations on improved production practices/ post-harvest management practices and preparation of value- added products on horticultural crops etc. for the benefit of stakeholders. yy Produced and distributed 14,30,232 plants of perennial horticultural crops, 275.56q breeders’/truthful label seeds of vegetables, spices etc., 13,78,001 rooted cuttings and 3102.14 MT breeder seed of tuber crops to farmers and other stakeholders for enhanced area coverage under improved varieties. 16. Digital Linkage with Farmers ICAR has developed strong linkages with farmers through various digital media platforms, mainly involving Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), ICAR- Institutes and Agricultural Universities (AUs). The KVK portal developed World Bee Day celebration at KVK Vizianagaram Andhra Pradesh 28 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 by ICAR provides information about the infrastructure facilities created for farmers in KVKs, training programmes for the farmers and field demonstrations to be carried out in farmers’ fields.