 This mixture is kept (in square-shape brick of 10" x 12") on the excavated circular periphery. In 1 day 2-3 layers of square bricks are prepared. Thickness of one layer is from 6 to 8 inches. On the next day, when the previous layers are dried, a few other layers are prepared over it. Height of this wall reaches up to 6-7 feet (in 7-8 days), in which there is Shri Kishan Singh Rathore, P.O. Gilkor, Peelva, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Content LOW-COST HOUSING MATERIALS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3549 Khop one door and a few shelves. When the circular-shaped wall is prepared, umbrella-shaped roof is prepared in 2 ways. In the first way the whole roof is prepared by taking the measurement of walls, and then it is fixed on the walls. In the second way roof is prepared over the walls with the help of sticks. The sticks of pearmillet are kept on this umbrella-shaped structure and tied with thin ropes. After covering completely, 8-10 circular bundles of thick ropes are tied (on lower part of roof) with the help of thin ropes. Doors are prepared from sticks of khejri tree and walls are plastered every year. Nowadays walls are being prepared from stones also. People are preparing jhompra since ages. Keywords: jhompra, summer, temperature, winter Coconut-leaf sheath is used to thatch houses in the village. Hut is made of coconut-leaf sheath to provide shelter from wind, sun and rain. In the garden and agricultural land, this type of thatched hut is constructed. Keywords: khop, coconut, leaf sheath, thatch Shri Sameer Gauns, Porye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 3550 Kavilache cohar Mud house constructed and thatched with brick tiles is known as kavilache cohar in Goa. It is commonly seen in villages. Keywords: kavilache cohar, mud, tiles Shri Pandurang Rane, Porye, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content 20 Ethnic Food Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3551 Drumstick flower curry and pickle 3552 Preparation of pickle and vegetable of ker (Capparis decidua) In many villages of Alwar district in Rajasthan this ethnic pickle and vegetables from the local drumstick is prepared. Commonly two drumstick varieties are grown in this area. The first one is self-grown in forests, which produces brownish white flowers, whereas the second produces yellowish white flowers. It is planted in kitchen gardens and used as vegetable. For curry preparation flowers are cleaned and fried in mustard oil by adding turmeric, onion, garlic and other spices. It is cooked and taken. For preparing pickles from drumstick, the following is the procedure: In the first step sugar and salt are boiled in water. After boiling, this mixture is left for cooling. The flowers are collected and cleaned. Cleaned flowers are fried in mustard oil by adding turmeric, onion and garlic.