 In both cropped and non-cropped environments, several weed control strategies are utilised to control these weeds. Despite the fact that Major invasive and quarantine weeds in India Indian Farming 28 February 2024 a vast number of exotics have been naturalised in India, only a few have had a significant impact on the ecosystem’s structure and functioning. Characteristics of invasive weeds Invasive weed has persistent seed bank in soil with variable dormancy. These weed seeds also dispersed easily and transported to long distance through the action of wind, water, human, and animal. Invasive weeds also have the character of homeostasis fitness i.e. a feature of cells, organs, and organisms that permits them to maintain and regulate the stability and consistency required for proper function. Understanding of these weeds’ habitat, anatomy, reproductive biology, physiology, and biochemistry is required for efficient control. Spreading of invasive weeds Invasive weeds have the ecological potential to invade nearly all ecosystem. Invasive weeds are primarily spread by human activities, often unintentionally and also often distributed by birds, and wind. It persists and spreads abundantly not just along roads but in backyards also in natural environment. It frequently spreads outside of the plant’s native habitat. Invasive weeds out-grow, out-spread and out-compete native plants. Process of biological invasion The spread of a weed plant into an area where it was previously absent, usually with negative consequences such as the extinction or displacement of native species, disruption of the invaded environment, and so on is known as biological invasion of weed. Invasive weeds are thus a severe impediment to biodiversity conservation and its sustainable use. Introduction, colonization, and naturalisation are the three separate population dynamics that occur during biological invasions. Process of biological invasion by invasive weeds Ecological impacts caused by invasive weeds Invasive species lead to the extinction of species, as well as changes in hydrology and ecosystem function. Ecosystems are disrupted and the environment is harmed. The ecosystems goods and services provided by native vegetation is drastically reduced by invasive weeds. Decreasing biodiversity from native ecosystems, modification of ecosystem, decline in number and diversity of native plants, and change in community structure are the major characteristics of invasive weeds. The threat is not limited to biodiversity loss; it also extends to the environment, economies, and people’s health. Globally, the agricultural production is decreased by 5% due to invasive weed species. In India, many invasive weed species entered crop lands including orchards. In annual crop, the 30% yield loss due to invasive weed is reported. These weeds also disturb aquatic ecosystem including navigation. The flow of water is interrupted by invasive weeds.