 The major causal factors responsible for such a decline in area of millet crops are; relatively higher demand and profitability of competing crops, lower market prices of millets vs. competing crops many of which are artificially supported, declining role as a food crop at aggregate level, urbanization, and income growth. One of the important determinants of millets economy is the consumption parameter. The consumption of millets in general declined overtime. Keywords: Commercial, Market, Millets, Value-addition T HE contribution of coarse cereals (millets plus maize) was 10% of food grains in 2003-04 (16.5 kg /person/year). This has declined to 8% by 2011-12 (13.2 kg/person/year). The major determinants for this decline are changes in food habits, time-consuming and cumbersome procedure of food preparation and strong policy disincentives. The agricultural and food policies of national and state governments are tilted largely towards rice and wheat. Public Distribution System (PDS) policy which resulted in significant changes in the food habits of people across the country that led to complete neglect of the so called “coarse grains”, especially millets, which are otherwise extremely nutritious. On supply- side, subsidies on farm inputs (irrigation, electricity and fertilizers) for production of rice and wheat have increased faster than even population growth rate. Some isolated half-hearted efforts were made in the past to include sorghum in the PDS in Maharashtra state. However, some storage problems and logistic issues led to its discontinuation. Now, there is a need to re-work ways and means to include millets in PDS as they form the core of dryland farming and are consumed as staple food in these regions. Thus, policy dis-incentivisation towards millets was two-pronged both on supply side and demand side. This has impacted adversely the country’s millet production and consumption, and in turn stability of small farmers’ sustenance in dryland. This calls for change in strategies on agricultural policy and R&D to ensure food security of the country, at least to those populations where millets are grown and still consumed as dominant staples.