 Yadav OP, Gupta SK, Govindaraj M, Sharma R, Varshney RK, Srivastava RK, Rathore A and Mahala RS (2021) Genetic Gains in Pearl Millet in India: Insights into Historic Breeding Strategies and Future Perspective. Front Plant Sci 12:645038. **** Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi visiting the plant phenomics facility at IARI, New Delhi 114 6 Chapter Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India AK Singh1, Murthy BNS2 and E Sreenivasa Rao2 1Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 2ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka Summary Horticulture has been a major contributor towards the substantial progress made towards food and nutrition security in India since Independence, the much noticeable after 2005. In the recent years, horticulture sector has become a driver of economic growth and slowly taking shape of an organized industry with key linkages to seed business, value-addition and export leading to job-full growth. Horticulture provides an opportunity for much needed diversification and intensification for adequate nutritious food and augmenting the income of the farmers. Horticulture research in India initiated in 1954, with the establishment of Division of Botany at IARI. Over years, several institutions and AICRPs were operationalized with the research agenda relevant to the national plans and priorities for dedicated development in horticulture. Today, horticultural research is conducted through 23 Institutes/Directorates/NRCs, 13 AICRPs and 6 Network Projects/Outreach programmes and is one of the most organized R&D setups in the NARES. The Horticulture in India comprises of diverse crops and commodities i.e., fruits including nut & plantation crops; vegetables including potato, tuber crops, mushroom; ornamental plants; spices, and medicinal and aromatic plants, honey bee rearing, bamboo, etc. has emerged as major alternatives for diversification and are contributing 31% to the agricultural GDP. Research on developing new varieties and management aspects of the horticultural crops over the past 75 years has contributed immensely to the growth of this sector. At present this sector is increasingly moving towards industries and commercialization, However, newer challenges such as Emerging pests and diseases, declining and degrading land and water resources, climate change, scarcity of water resources, natural calamities, high costs of agricultural inputs and transport, competing use of land and water and decline of investment in agriculture are emerging needing immediate action. Promotion of crop diversification in small-holder horticultural farming had been successful in many Asian countries and technology being size neutral effective technology transfer paid quick dividends. 1. Introduction After independence in 1947, the immediate priority was to attain food self-sufficiency in staple crops like wheat and rice.