 The farmer producer organizations (FPOs) and cooperatives could promote adoption of improved technologies by farmers and facilitate collective arrangement of input, credit and insurance services, besides having greater say in marketing of their produce. Organic farming has great potential for enhancing farmers’ income, sustaining productivity and to promote residue free food products. There is a need for development of value chains for aggregation of organic produce, quality control, certification and branding, and marketing. Besides quality information, infrastructure support system for postharvest treatment and value addition will have to be ensured for prosperity of market-oriented farming. 8. Conclusion Gandhiji’s concept of rural development is a multidimensional process which includes gram swaraj (self rule), atmanirbhar (self-reliance), ram rajya (rule of law established by moral values), panchayat raj (decentralisation of power, economy, policies and decisions at panchayat), ahimsha (politics based on non-violence), Satya (administration based on truth and honesty), sevabhaba (service attitude), Sahyog (cooperation), and swabhiman (self-dignity of individual). Gandhian philosophy emphasizes upon upliftment of common man though enabling him to access the basic amenities such as food, cloth, shelter, health and education by earning locally with a dignity of life and livelihood. The poverty, superstition, exploitation in the caste system, concentration of power, violence, communality etc. have been the major negative factors in rural development. He always emphasized agriculture and allied activities to be the backbone of rural economy, which should be performed with least external inputs. The Khadi industry, cottage industry, rural crafts industry can be pivotal in reviving rural economy and self-dependent rural India in future. His sublime vision is all round development of rural India based on his ideas, principles, values and harmony with nature. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 195 References Ann RLE, Ravichandran K and Antony U (2019) The impact of the Green Revolution on indigenous crops of India. J Ethnic Foods (2019) 6:8-18. Annamalai S (2015) Retrieved from https://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Madurai/gandhis-philosophy-led- to-regenerative-agriculture/article7910982.ece Anonymous (2018) Significant achievments of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. Department of Agricultural Research and Education, ICAR, New Delhi. APEDA (2020) https://apeda.gov.in/apedawebsite/organic/data.htm (Accessed on 24 September 2020). Arora RK (1988) The Indian gene centre-priorities and prospects for collection pp. 66-75. In: Plant genetic resources: Indian perspective (Eds. RS Paroda, RK Arora and KPS Chandel), NBPGR, New Delhi, pp 545. Arora RK (1994) The Indian gene centre: Diversity in crop plants and their wild relatives pp 29-37. In Ex-situ conservation of plant genetic resources (Eds.