 While elevated follicular death (atresia) and reduced maturational competence lead to reduced fecundity and reproductive fitness in BPA-treated females, 4-NP could alter redox balance (oxidative stress), inflammatory response, lipid accumulation (steatosis) and apoptotic index in zebrafish liver. Low dose of SAM, isolated from plant source (Ocimum spp), has the potential to induce oocyte maturation and formation of fertilizable female gamete. A mouse model for PPRV and a novel vaccine vector for animals: Goat plague disease is caused by a virus named peste-des-petits-ruminants or PPR virus. The immunological responses during virus infection would not only help to devise better vaccines but also in applying appropriate disease curing measures. The genetically defective mice, developed for interferon response serve as an excellent in-vivo animal model for investigating PPRV pathogenesis. Replicating virus and its antigens were detected in most of the critical organs of infected mice. Innate immune cells such as neutrophils and macrophages likely transported the replicating virus to the central nervous system to cause encephalitis. This established and employed a laboratory animal model for investigating PPRV pathogenesis and protective role of CD8+ T cells of immune system. A viral vector system based on the Indian vaccine strain (Sungri/96) of peste-des-petits-ruminants virus (PPRV), specifically for the development of next generation live attenuated dual/combined vaccines for other viral/bacterial/parasitic diseases of livestock in addition to PPR was also developed. Identification of biomarkers for early diagnosis of Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis (MAP): MAP 2191c or mammalian cell entry protein and ModD Secretome protein in the form of peptide was targeted for the development of DIVA ELISA. Early detection of MAP infection even before the onset of clinical signs could aid in effective control of the disease transmission. The inflammatory biomarker IL18 was consistently up-regulated in MAP infected animals as early as 30 days post inoculation of MAP in experimental animals. While, IL1 and IFN genes were transcriptionally elevated in chronic cases as well as vaccinated animals beyond >90 dpt timeline. Besides, the calcium signaling and MAPK pathways were identified as key mechanisms which help in the survival of MAP inside the macrophages of host and successful chronic infection, that could be exploited in the nation- wide control programmes on JD. Resveratrol and catechin-loaded niosomes and nanoparticles for fortification of milk and milk products: The process conditions of catechins-loaded niosomes were optimized, and the niosomes were characterized for fortification of milk, dahi and yoghurt. SEM, TEM and AFM analysis revealed that the catechins-loaded niosomes were monodispersed with spherical morphology and size 60 nm. FTIR spectra confirmed formation of niosomes and the encapsulation of catechins into them.