 Production and hosting by Elsevier Journal of King Saud University – Science 35 (2023) 102619 Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Journal of King Saud University – Science journal homepage: www.sciencedirect.com (Sadeghi et al., 2012; Verma et al., 2011). They are implicated in phosphate solubilization (Jog et al., 2014) and siderophore produc- tion (Verma et al., 2011) as well. Yet the most important role of Streptomyces spp. in agriculture is their ability to control phy- topathogens owing to their traits; siderophore production, antibi- otics production and volatile compounds secretion (Olanrewaju and Babalola, 2019). Isolation, morphological, biochemical, physiological, and molec- ular characterization of Streptomyces spp. are reported in many studies (Taddei et al., 2006). Taddei et al. (2006) studied the bio- chemical and morphological characterization of 71 Streptomyces spp. isolated from soil samples of Venezuela, of them 67 isolates were new strains. In a recent study, Kaur et al. (2019) tested a potent Streptomyces strain MR14 with antifungal and plant growth promoting properties. Cell free extracts of MR14 showed potent antagonistic activity against 13 different fungal phytopathogens. Despite their multifarious role, Streptomyces found beneﬁcial to plants and agriculture overall, received lesser interest as compared to Streptomyces spp. studied for their role in pharmaceuticals (Rey and Dumas, 2017). It is only imperative, that the exploration of the phylogenetic and morphological diversity of this group of bacteria and enriching their cultural database could lead to identifying strains with unique potential. Agricultural ﬁelds especially plant rhizosphere is an important source of potent Streptomyces spp. with antagonistic activity against plant pathogens. In the present study, an attempt was made to isolate Streptomyces spp. from dif- ferent crop rhizosphere and bulk soil samples collected from Tamil Nadu, India. The resultant isolates were characterized for morpho- logical diversity, genetic diversity, and antagonistic potential against select phytopathogenic fungi. All the actinomycetes iso- lated in this study were submitted to the National Agriculturally Important Microbial Culture Collection (NAIMCC), a constituent unit of ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microor- ganisms, Mau India. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Sample collection A total of 40 soil samples including rhizosphere of different crops and bulk soils were collected in sterile bags from various locations in Tamil Nadu, India, details of the samples are depicted in Table 1. For rhizosphere samples, standing crops were uprooted at ﬁve random sites in a ﬁeld and soils adhered to the roots were collected in a sterile poly bag. For bulk soil, the top 15 cm soil core was collected from ﬁve random sites in a sterile poly bag from each site.