80 lakhs). ICAR-CPCRI has commercialized the protocol for hot and fermentation processing of Virgin Coconut Oil VCO. Another beverage from coconut is the inflorescence sap, popularly known as ‘neera’. Technology for the collection of unfermented coconut sap has been developed referred to be Kalparas. Value-added products such as Kalparasa and coconut sugar, virgin coconut oil, extruded products from coconut, snow ball tender nut, coconut chips and vegan coconut delicacy, coconut sugar based dark chocolate and drinking chocolate could make the sector profitable and small enterprise friendly. It has been demonstrated that a farmer tapping 15 coconut palms for Kalparasa could earn on an average net profit of Rs. 45,000 a month, while a tapper can earn about Rs. 20,000 per month. Indian Agriculture after Independence 130 3.4.3. Improved tuber crop varieties About 40% of the total area of cassava in the country is under improved varieties viz., H-226, H-165, Sree Apoorva, Sree Athulya, Sree Pavithra, Sree Swarna, Sree Jaya, Sree Vijaya and Sree Reksha, which have spread to the states of Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala, Telangana, West Bengal and North Eastern states. The overall economic impact of the adoption of improved varieties has been estimated to be Rs. 10,005 million per annum. Similarly, area under improved varieties of sweet potato, viz., Kishan, Sree Kanaka, Bhu Sona, Bhu Krishna, Bhu Swami, Bhu Ja, and Bhu Kanthi, was 23% and the economic impact was calculated at Rs. 2608 million per annum. Varieties have spread in the states like Odisha, Uttar Pradesh, Karnataka, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and North Eastern states. These improved varieties are high yielding, resistant to various biotic, abiotic stresses and also rich in nutrition (β-carotene more than 8-14 mg/100 g, anthocyanin content of 80 mg/100 g). Besides additional income, they are contributing towards household food and nutritional security. 3.5. Mushrooms Presently, India contributes about 0.4% of the total world production of mushrooms and productivity in the country has almost doubled, while production has registered a more than 36-fold increase during last decade. Several promising varieties of cultivated mushrooms were released by ICAR in button mushroom, paddy straw mushroom, shiitake mushroom, milky mushroom, oyster mushroom and macrocybe mushroom. Among them, the first non-browning button mushroom variety, DMR-NBS-5 is widely accepted across the country contributing 32% of the total button mushroom production in the country. 3.6. Pest and disease management in horticultural crops 3.6.1. Disease forecasting and management strategies for potato late blight fore- casting Late blight is the most devastating disease of potato because of its fast spread resulting in wipe out of entire crop in a few days if proper preventive measures are not adopted. The average losses caused by late blight have been estimated to the tune of 15% annually.