 A comprehensive national strategy on infectious diseases in the country addressing the challenges of emerging and re-emerging infections cutting across all relevant sectors, both governmental and non-governmental, needs to be in place. Identification of national centres of excellence and their capacity building is of critical importance. Concerted efforts are also needed to develop advanced countermeasures 193 Health and Good Living such as surveillance tools, diagnostic tests, vaccines and therapeutics through basic, translational and applied research. Sensitive rapid response mechanisms at various levels of health service are the cornerstone to detect public health threats to respond quickly enough to protect human lives. Key takeaways National commitment and comprehensive efforts on health services are necessary to meet threats of emerging and re-emerging infections. Epidemiological investigations on emerging diseases within the country should be given high priority to contain their spread. 194 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series TRANSFORMING GLOBAL FOOD SYSTEM AFTER COVID-19 Johan Swinnen Since approximately 2015, the world has seen a reversal in the longer-term declines in hunger and malnutrition enjoyed in previous years. Currently, 3 billion globally people cannot afford a healthy diet, 2 billion people have micronutrient deficiencies and 2 billion people are overweight or obese. Many countries are facing a triple burden of malnutrition/ underweight, hidden hunger (where children suffer from a deficiency in micronutrients) and overweight. A turnaround in GDP growth per capita in low-income countries is associated with this reversal. But other key challenges continue to strain global food systems. These include COVID-19, conflict and climate change. COVID-19-related loss of jobs and income had a significant impact on global poverty and nutrition, with a stronger effect on poverty in South Asia than Sub-Saharan Africa. Poor people’s food and nutrition security have been disproportionately affected, mainly because the poor spend a large share of their income on food and because their main production Dr Johan Swinnen is the Director General of the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) Washington, DC, USA and the Global Director of the Systems Transformation Science Group at the CGIAR. He has extensively worked on agricultural and food policies, international development, political economy, institutional reforms, trade and global value chains. 195 Health and Good Living factor and asset is physical labor, which was disrupted. Women have also been especially vulnerable, due to the gendered impacts of income shocks, health measures and children’s schooling. Social protection programs have expanded significantly, which may persist over time, a potentially positive development. The pandemic has had heterogenous impacts on supply chains and food systems, with supply chains being more resilient than expected.