8% Impact on net returns over existing = 112% Crop performances (baby corn and pea) after LRI based agro-technology transfer Indian Farming 22 January 2024 Prioritization of low food grains productivity districts for rural development planning in India Dinesh Chand Meena1* and Maina Kumari2 1ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi 110 012 2Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 005 Agriculture is the mainstay of many rural economies, ensuring food and nutritional security, employment, livelihoods, and economic development. The agricultural productivity of a country plays a crucial role in determining its people's prospects, as it significantly contributes to eradicating hunger, poverty, and inequality. Despite the remarkable growth of the agriculture sector, there is still a need for increased agricultural productivity in several districts and agro-climatic zones (ACZs). One hundred twenty-two districts yield less than 1.5 t/ha food grain productivity. Therefore, prioritizing districts with low food grain productivity is crucial to bringing underdeveloped ones into development. Keywords: Agricultural productivity, Inclusive development, Prioritising T HE agriculture sector is among the largest employment- providing sectors in the country, though the share of the agriculture sector in the gross domestic product (GDP) has declined from 55% in 1950/51 to 18.8% (Gross value added at current prices) in 2019/2020 (PIB 2022). About 50% of the population is directly or indirectly dependent on agriculture for their livelihood, and it is the mainstay of many rural economies, ensuring food and nutritional security, employment, livelihoods, and economic development. Thus, it is considered the backbone of the Indian economy because of its kaleidoscopic nature and cascading effect on the economy. According to the World Bank, agriculture can help reduce poverty, raise incomes, and improve food security for 80% of the world’s poor, who live in rural areas and work mainly in farming. India has a net sown area of 141 Mha for agriculture, which has been crucial for rural livelihoods as well as food and nutritional security amidst a growing population. Its annual growth rate was about 3.2 Indian Farming 74 (01): 22-24; January 2024 from 1980/81 to 2019/20, almost double the population growth (1.7) during the same period. In the past, the robust package of technology, extension, and price support policy of the Government has stimulated healthy sector growth and imparted good results. As a result, India has transformed to a food surplus and export-oriented country from a food-deficit country. India is among the top rice, wheat, sugarcane, and cotton producers. It is also the highest producer of milk and the second largest producer of fruit and vegetables, third in egg production, and eighth in meat production.