 Enhancing the meat production of goat having knocked down myostatin gene: Knockdown efficiency of MSTN gene in case of stable adult fibroblast cell line after 11 “ passage was about 90 per cent, compared to mock control. About 15-20 transformed embryos having knock-down MSTN gene were produced and cryopreserved, for further transfer into surrogates. Spermatogonia germ cells culture in serto ii cell feeder layer and in vitro transduced with GFP expression vector were also established. 2.2 Abiotic and biotic stresses and, quality traits in plants, animals & fisheries Identification and characterization of fungal effectors and host factors in rice-false smut pathosystem: Rice false smut samples (174) were collected from different 18 states of rice- growing areas. Ustilaginoidea virens was isolated from the yellow-coloured smut balls using potato sucrose agar medium. Around 148 U. virens isolates were obtained and the morphological characters viz., colony colour, size, and texture etc., were recorded. During Kharif 2023, about 70, 100, and 70 germplasm lines were screened either artificially or under natural conditions. Four genotypes were selected and screened artificially. GNV-10-89 and Co-51 is being used as susceptible line to study the virulence of the collected U. virens isolates at Gangavathi and IIRR, respectively. High-quality DNA was isolated from the two highly virulent selected false smut isolates from different geographic regions of India. The DNA was subjected to pre-library quality control on the Femto Pulse system to separate large DNA fragments for PacBio sequencing. The whole genome sequences were caried out on the PacBio Sequel II third-generation sequencing platform and Hi-C (chromatin interaction) sequencing. The time points for the collection of tissues during the rice-false smut interaction for gene expression studies were standardized using the IIRR rice false smut (RFS) isolate in the genotypes showing differential disease reactions. 21 Salient Achievements of the Projects Marker assisted stacking of yellow mosaic disease resistance, null Kunitz trypsin inhibitor, null lipoxygenase-2 genes, and broadening the genetic base of soybean: Based on the multilocation evaluation of 322 germplasm accessions and zonal check varieties, diverse parents were identified for hybridization programme under AICRP on soybean. For different agroclimatic zones, hybridizations between the adapted variety of the zone and the diverse germplasm were identified based on the D2 analysis. A set of 250 inter-specific RILs of soybean (F10) developed at IARI, New Delhi, were grown during kharif 2022.. Wide variations were observed among the RILs for the traits studied. Several lines with a higher number of pods per plant, yield and resistance to yellow mosaic virus were identified for crossing. A total of 10 accessions of landrace (Glycine max) and 2 accessions of wild-type soybean (Glycine soja) including 4 HYVs were collected and multiplied.