 Lumpy skin disease viruses (LSDV): Lumpy Skin Disease (LSD) emerged in cattle in August 2019 in Odisha State and spread rapidly to other areas. The phylogenetic analysis of 4 complete genes, viz. GPCR, RPO30, P32 and EEV of 12 LSDV isolates revealed that all the Indian LSDV isolates from 2019 outbreaks were very closely related (99.7–100%) to the historical Kenyan NI-2490/Kenya/KSGP-like field strains, than the contemporary field strains circulating in Africa, Middle East, Central Asia and Europe and the vaccine-like recombinant LSDVs linked to field outbreaks in Russia and China. Importantly, the study demonstrated that LSDV strains involved in 2019 outbreaks in India and Bangladesh are very similar in GPCR (99.7%), RPO30 (100%) and partial EEV (100%) sequences, indicating a common exotic source of LSDV introduction. The findings provide new insights into the global LSDV epidemiology, and demonstrated change in genetics of globally circulating LSDV field strains. African swine fever viruses: The occurrence of African Swine Fever (ASF) was confirmed for the first time in India in 2020, in Arunachal Pradesh and Assam. Subsequently, 89 out of 131 samples received from Meghalaya, Manipur, Nagaland and Mizoram states were found positive for ASF virus (ASFV). To genetically Herbal prototype (Brucare) for checking Brucella shedding A significant reduction in shedding was noticed in Brucella positive animals from 21 days post treatment with the Herbal Prototype. In the field conditions, where no available mechanism is there for the goat keeper to control brucellosis, such herbal drug based package of practice could be a boon to the farmers in controlling Brucella abortions as well as containing the risk of zoonosis. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 96 characterize Indian ASFV, 9 representative viruses isolated from these states were analyzed in three genomic regions, namely, partial B646L gene (encoding the p72 protein), complete E183L-gene (encoding the p54 protein) and the central variable region (CVR) within the B602L gene. Genetic analysis showed that all the nine Indian ASFV isolates shared 100% nucleotide and deduced amino acid sequence identity in all the three regions studied. In the B646L gene based phylo- dendrogram, all the Indian ASFV isolates grouped within genotype II ASFV. Furthermore, within genotype II, Indian isolates shared 100% nucleotide sequence homology with contemporary ASFV from Asia and Europe, including China, South Korea, Vietnam, Georgia, Hungary etc. The results confirmed the spread of Indian ASF viruses amongst north-eastern states of India. H5 avian influenza viruses: Complete genome sequence of 4 H5N1 highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) viruses and 7 H5N8 HPAI viruses isolated from chickens, ducks, crows, wild birds and bar-headed goose during December 2020 to March 2021 in different epicenters, was determined.