 • Microbial formulation of Pseudomonas fluorescens and Bacillus megaterium for boosting the growth and yield of cumin crop. • Two Microbial formulations of Rhizobium + Bacillus megaterium and Rhizobium + Bacillus subtilis+ BHIMA megaterium for boosting the growth and yield of fenugreek crop. • Cryogenic Grinding technology for spices: A novel approach for retention of flavour and medicinal properties of seed spices. Cumin var. GC-4 Fenugreek var. AFg-3 Fennel var. AF-1 109 Natural Resource Management 109 ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning Amravati Road, University PO, Nagpur- 440 033 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. B. S. Dwivedi iii. Email address: director.nbsslup@icar.gov.in, Phone No.: Phone No. 0712-2500386 2. Mandate and activities  To conduct soil survey and mapping of the soils of the country to promote scientific and optimal land use programmes in collaboration with relevant institutions and agencies.  To conduct and promote research in the National Agricultural Research System in the areas of Pedology, Soil survey, Remote sensing applications, Land degradation, Land evaluation and Land use planning.  To impart training and education to create awareness on soil and land resources and their state of health. Activities • Inventorization of natural resources • Basic Pedological Research • Soil Survey Data Interpretation and Applications • Land Evaluation and Land Use Planning 3. Salient achievements • Prepared soil maps of the states (1:250,000 scale) and several districts (1:50,000 scale) of the country and land resource inventory of 296 blocks covering 10 states at 1:10000 scale. • Prepared soil degradation map of the country (1:4.4 million scale) and different states of the country (1: 2,50,000 scale) Natural Resource Management 110 ICAR Institutes Profile 110 • Developed agricultural land use plans for 27 aspirational districts in 8 states • BHOOMI Geo-portal, a Gateway to Soil Geospatial database has been developed and dedicated to soil resources of the nation for use of different stakeholders. • Developed Soil organic carbon map of India. Pomegranate: Sholapur Lal 111 Natural Resource Management 111 ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute Zarifa Farm, Kachhwa Road, Karnal-132001 (Haryana) ii. Name of the Director: Dr. P.C. Sharma iii. Email address: director.cssri@icar.gov.in, Phone No.: 0184-2290501 (O) 2. Mandate and activities • Developing technologies for reclamation and management of salt affected soils and use of poor quality irrigation waters in different agro-ecological regions of India. • Evaluate and recommend strategies that promote adoption of preventive/ameliorative technology. • Coordinate/support the network of research for generating and testing location specific technologies.