 • Established molecular signatures and QR codes for released spice varieties of black pepper and seed spices varieties for genetic purity. • Standardized barcoding to detect plant-based adulterants in black pepper, chilli powder, turmeric powder, cinnamon bark, and mace • Developed and demonstrated integrated farming system (IFS) model for spice crops including spices, vegetables, fruits, coconut and dairy components with sustainable income for a farm family. Developed eco friendly weed management and production technologies for major spice crops. • Standardized Soil test based fertilizer recommendation for targeted yield for major spice crops viz., black pepper, ginger, turmeric and cardamom. Also developed and patented crop specific micronutrient formulations for major spices. • Standardized several plant propagation techniques for spices including single bud portray and microrhizhome technologies for ginger and turmeric and potting mediums and on an average supplied 1.5 lakh rooted cuttings of black pepper and 15 tonnes of seed rhizomes of ginger and turmeric to farmers every year. • Developed climate models for establishing its relationship with yield over the changing climate and delineated Climate analogue sites for future expansion of black pepper, small cardamom and seed spices. • Developed Organic production packages and good agricultural practices for major spices. Also developed organic production package for spices specifically for NE states. Standardized 93 Horticultural Science 93 and popularised technologies for mitigating abiotic stress in black pepper by scheduling irrigation in large scale area. • Developed and popularized Eco friendly bio intensive management of major pathogens of black pepper, cardamom, ginger and turmeric with Trichoderma sp., Bacillus sp and PGPR consortia • Developed integrated technology for the management of bacterial wilt in ginger involving soil solarization, bio agents application and drenching with CaCl2 in hot spot areas of the disease. • Developed IPM and green technologies for the management of cardamom thrips, pollu beetle in black pepper and shot borer in cardamom, ginger and turmeric. • Developed Diagnostics: Multiplex PCR assay for simultaneous detection of Phytophthora, Pythium and Fusarium, molecular techniques for detection of black pepper, ginger and cardamom viruses and developed PCR, RPA and LAMP protocols for detection and differentiation of Phytophthora species • Web Portals and information portals were developed and hosted:-Indian Plant Virus Database, Radobase, Ginger Transcriptome Database, SpiceCom, Phytophthora TranscriptomeDB, PASSCom, PiperPep, PLASBID, Phytoweb, Spicegenes, SPICEST, AgroTech for spices, Spice Bibliography, GST Lead Base. • Commercialized varieties, crop specific micronutrients, bio agents and bio capsule technologies to several entrepreneurs across India and abroad by issuing 60 non exclusive licenses.