 While computing the length of service for transfer the period already rendered in B,C and other areas should be taken into account. In case of inter-institutional transfer, birectors should be consulted/informed in advance. While transferring the scientists, consideration should be given to its effect on research programmes so that no progromme is disrupted. Transfer not of a routine nature according to pattern but on administrative/ disciplinary groups should be ordered by the Directors in the Centres/ stations under them after getting the prior approval of the D.G., ICAR. DISCIPLINE OF THE SCIENTIST ON TRANSFER The discipline of the scientist transferred shall be the same. Transfer of scientists engaged in extension work will be made having regard to their knowledge of the local language. TRANSFER COMMITTEE A Transfer Committee will be «et-up at the Headquarters of the Council with Director-General as Chairman, Secretary/one D.D.G. nomi- nated by the Director-General and Director (P) as members to consider the question of transfers according to the above-mentioned pattern and on the recommendations of the Committee, the orders of transfer will be issued at least two months in advance to enable the scientists to make prepara- tions for their movement. Representations received from the scientists or from the Directors on this matter will be considered by the Council. For ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 35 considering cases of transfers from Institute to Regional stations and vice- versa, a similar committee will be set up by the Director of each Institute. Representations against transfers received from the scientists will be con- sidered by the Institute. LIST OF SCIENTISTS ELIGIBLE FOR TRANSFER By the 31st March every year, the Directors of the Institute shall for- ward to the Headquarters a list of scientists who have become eligible for transfer. The list need not contain the names of the Scientists who can be transferred according to this pattern by the Directors themselves from the Regional Station/Centres to the Headquarters of the Institutes and vice- versa. There should, however, be uniformity in intra-institutional transfers. [No. 8-16/76-Per-lV dt. 17-11-80.] TRAINING (1) Candidates selected on the basis of vthe competitive examination shall be required to undergo an intensive course of study and training for a period of one year. (2) Every trainee shall be required to execute a bond to serve the Council for a minimum period of four years* (from the date of his appoint- ment including the period of training. Failure to serve the Council for the stipulated period will render the candidate liable to refund Rs 12000** together with interest thereon. (3) Any trainee found to be guilty of an unbecoming conduct will be liable to be discharged even before completion of the period of training. Such a trainee will be liable to refund full amount of the emoluments paid to him during the period of training.