 Lack of knowledge on expansion of vegetable production, inadequate availability/supply of quality seeds at the right time, lack of knowledge on technical aspects about scientific cropping and its application, non-availability of improved and critical inputs such as organic fertilizers and low market rate of product in the local market are some of the major constraints observed in radish cultivation by farmers in Tripura. Initiative: Supply of basic input like improved variety of seed of radish variety Kashi Hans along with other inputs like inorganic fertilizer, vermin- compost, etc. to be incorporated to improve the productivity of small and marginal farmhold of the crop, integration of vegetable based farming system such as improved techniques of vegetable nursery and nursery bed preparations, getting the farmer acquainted with line sowing of vegetable besides broadcasting method and dissipation of knowledge on Improved Good Horticultural Practices in vegetable cultivation. Name of Cultivator Sri Bijoy Lal Majumder Address S/O: Arabinda Majumder Vill.- Purba Ramchndra, PO: Uttar Ramchandraghat, PS: Khowai, Block: Khowai, Dist: Khowai, Tripura 799207 Name of crop and variety Radish variety – Kashi Hans Area Covered 0.16 ha (1Kani) Cost of Cultivation and Income ₹15,000/- for 0.16 ha (Land preparation, sowing, irrigation, intercultural operation) and seed cost (₹4000) ₹30,000/-(Income) B:C ratio: 2: 1 Benefits and Income increase Support in form of Improved Seed, other inputs and Improved package and practices Cost of Cultivation: ₹ 12000/- per 0.16 ha (Seed Cost Low – ₹1120/-), Income: ₹40,000/- per 0.16 ha (Income more due to high yield) B:C ratio: 3.33:1 Net Profit ₹ 40,000/ - ₹12,000/ = ₹28000/per 0.16 ha Farmer’s view a. Cropping intensity has been increased with incorporation of this short duration crop. b. Seeds of high-yielding varieties, proper seed treatment and timely management practices. c. Following Good Horticultural practices increases yield. d. Technical support for effective and judicious use of inputs and pesticides through training. Demonstration of improved variety of Radish by farmer Sri Bijoy lal Majumder after scientific intervention and supply of quality seed variety Kashi Hans from ICAR- IIVR, Varanasi under ICAR-IIVR, NEH Component Principal results obtained From the initial findings, following trends were seen and the repeated intervention for 3 more years may give concrete results in the respective aspect. i) Productivity of the vegetables has been increased. ii) Socio-economic upliftment through more earning with higher production. iii) Balanced application of agro-chemicals. Socio-economic, scientific and technological significance of the results Income of the farmers has been increased with increase in the production and productivity with scientific cultivation and technological intervention. Success stories of farmers are evidence of success of the intervention.