 It is well known that the structure and biomass of planktonic organisms (both phytoplankton and zooplankton) govern the quality of an aquatic ecosystem. Also, in this case, it was also found that irrespective of treatments the relative growth as well as specific growth rate of fish gradually decreased from the beginning to end of experiment. Conclusion Results of the experiments show that juice of banana pseudostem is slightly acidic in nature with high hardness and high alkalinity. It is rich in minerals like Zn, Cu, Ca, Fe, Mg, Mn and phosphate, which slightly increased the pH, hardness and alkalinity of water, helped precipitate the suspended matter in the water and thereby reduce the turbidity. It also increased the plankton production by facilitating the proper sunlight penetration. Fish growth in juice- 24 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture treated water was higher than the control and similar to that of lime treatment. The ITK may be considered as a substitute for lime treatment for freshwater aquaculture. 7.2 Treatment of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle by using harida (Terminalia chebula) and baheda (Terminalia bellirica) Description of the ITK Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) in cattle is controlled by applying to the affected parts with 500 g each of harida and behada powder mixed with 2.5 liter water, twice a day, after boiling. It is being used extensively by the cattle growing farmers in Makarbili village of Nawapada district in Odisha. Name and address of the discloser Ms. Bhanumati Behera, Plot No. 64, Surva Nagar, Unit 7, Bhubaneshwar (Odisha). Location of use of the ITK Makarbili, Boden, Nawapada (Odisha) 766 107 Experimenters Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. S. Haque, Head and Dr. P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand). West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS) Dr. N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr. C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal). Odisha University of Agriculture and Technology (OUAT) Dr. P.K. Das, Professor and Head, and Dr. G.S. Parida, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Odisha Veterinary College, Bhubaneswar 751 003 (Odisha). Results and discussion The animals treated with harida and baheda paste, at BAU recovered within 6-7 days but foot lesions took 17-18 days for complete cure. In allopathic treatment, the initial improvement was noticed, although the wound complications persisted. Peripheral swelling, warmness and pain were reduced in 3-4 days in the ITK-treated group. The clinical improvement was markedly significant in ITK treatment in comparison with allopathic treatment. The treatment of FMD foot lesions with harida and baheda paste was more cost- effective than allopathic treatment.