 Remote Sensing’s wide area coverage, synoptic view and availability of temporal data makes this technology an indispensable tool for agricultural monitoring as well as for decision making. The maps illustrated here show the rice fallow dynamics in West Bengal during October 2019 – January 2020. These maps are generated by analysing the temporal data of Sentinel-2 satellite imageries. These maps demonstrate that during October and November, very less rice fallow fields were present (rice was still in-field), whereas during the month of December, most of the rice cultivating areas reflect fallow land. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 22 Mapping of rice fallows and computation of duration of rice fallow land, synchronized with the availability of soil moisture for a site can be comprehensively utilized for intensification. Decision tool for mapping suitability of Cactus cultivation in India ICARDA conducted a study on land suitability for cactus (Opuntia ficus-indica) cultivation in India. Nine essential growth factors that includes climate and edaphic components were considered for the period 2000 to 2007. The results of the cactus suitability map show that about 32% of the total geographic area of the country is in the ‘high (3%) to moderate suitable (29%)’ category. For the remaining area, 46% falls under the ‘marginally suitable’ category and 22% under the ‘low suitable to very low suitable’ category. An automated Decision tool was developed and released (Beta version) or Cactus cultivation in India. Promotion of spineless fodder Cactus To address fodder deficiency in India, ICARDA introduced 67 diverse spineless cactus varieties from FAO-ICARDA Cactus nursery, Italy and EMBRAPA, Brazil. Nurseries have been developed at IGFRI, CAZRI, CSSRI, BAIF, and at ICARDA- FLRP, Amlaha. Initial adaptation trials revealed 12 varieties performed well under Indian environmental conditions considering morphological traits, such as plant height, number of cladode/plants, cladode length and width, biomass, root surface area, volume and root length. Experiment on time of planting suggests that July planting is the best when there is enough soil moisture for initial establishment. Feeding trials with goat, sheep and cattle at IGFRI recommended 25-30% chopped cactus cladodes mixture with cereals straw or other feed resources. To date, 189,000 cladodes have been provided to Gujrat, Maharashtra, UP, MP, Odisha states to develop Foundation Nursery and Gram Panchayat Nursery and to farmers to plant in degraded lands. Foundation Nurseries are established in Balangir, Balasore, Koraput, Mayurbhanj, Rayagada, Kalahandi, Khorda, Ganjam, Khandhmal, and Nayagarh districts on Odisha; Bhuj district of Gujrat; Nagpur and Amrabati districts in Maharashtra; and Hosangabad, Katni, Datia, Jhansi, Panna, Sagar, Tikamgarh, Umaria, Ashoke Nagar and Guna KVKs in MP and UP. Besides, Cactus varieties have also been provided to farmers in these states.