 The Raw materials used were the following: (i) The main raw material is fruits such as grapes (Vitis vinifera), wild apricot (Prunus armeniaca), pear (Prunus communis), apple (Prunus malus), wild almond (Prunus delicis) etc. (ii) Fresh as well as sun-dried fruits are used. Fruits like apple or pears are cut into pieces in preparation for fermentation. Chulli is sun-dried on the roof after de-seeding. (iii) Fruits are used individually or in combination with one another. Molasses is not used. Fruit is not added by weight but in proportionate ratios and is commonly referred to as chharava. Individual variations do not permit approximation of a charava in kilogram etc. Examples of average amounts distilled per chharava of fruit alone are: (i) only bemi 7 bottles, i.e. 14 ser; (ii) only chulli 10 bottles, i.e. 20 ser; and (iii) bemi + chulli 15 bottles, i.e. 30 ser. About 12_13 bottles of alcohol are collected from approximately 40 kg mixed fruit material. Process 1. The fermented fruit is distilled and the distillate is stored for use. 2. Fermentation takes longer time in winter due to cold climatic conditions. Hot weather aids fermentation. 3. Generally the wooden drums are preferred for fermentation, as they keep the materials warm. However, the more durable plastic drums are used now. The drums are then tightly covered with a wooden or stone lid. Fermentation is considered to be complete when the larva in the pulp dies. Drops of water inside the lid is another indication. Yet again, if a  ETHNIC FOOD burning stick is taken to the pulp and the flame extinguishes, this too indicates that the material is ready. But most commonly it was reported that the experienced nose is the best judge of the odour, which is emitted and perfection is attained only through practice. 4. The pulp is put into a brass pitcher, called lamthu or lambu, which is covered with a slate of stone having a hole in the centre. The slate is used to avoid overflow of material during boiling. 5. A brass pan, called thoog, is placed on the slate, which also has a hole of the same size as that of slate. It also has a side pipe, through which the distillate comes out. 6. The utensil is covered with a bigger size brass pan, called parat, which is used to cool the vapours in the thoog below, during distillation. Two pipes, one inlet and the other outlet, ensure the circulation of cold water during distillation. The topmost parat is kept at a slight slant. The inlet of water is on upper side and outlet is at lower side. This cools the bottom of utensil and condenses the alcohol vapours touching its lower surface. During winter, snow is used instead of water for cooling. It is effective, as it takes long time to melt. 7. The condensed material runs out through the side pipe of the lower utensil, from where it is collected. A rubber pipe may be attached to metallic side pipe to keep some distance between the collection pot, called lothang, and the distillation plant. 8.