0 per cent of adolescents have high cholesterol. One in ten school- age children pre-diabetic and 5.0 per cent of adolescents have hypertension. Integrating Gender Nutrition in Agricul- ture confirms that empowering women would help in women’s health and nutritional status. Women beneficiaries in development schemes are important and the various schemes are National Horticulture Mission, Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi and Pradhan Mantri Kisan Mann Dhan yojana etc. ICAR Approach for Integrating Gender and Nutrition The ICAR is implementing Nutri-sensitive Agricultural Resources and Innovations (NARI) scheme through various Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK). The initiative is to grow food what we want to eat. The focus of these programmes is on nutritionally enriching foods. Map the entire food system of village and suggest what they should eat. The ICAR has developed more than 70 fortified varieties and is promoting their production and consumption to alleviate malnutrition. Nutrition Map is another initiative of the ICAR where mapping is done of indigenous regional foods and prescription is done on local food-based recipes (nutri thali) to enrich 203 Social Issues and Sports the diet. KVK’s are training Anganwadi workers to develop Nutri Garden at every household for year-round availability of vegetables and fruits. Key takeaways Awareness and education of the women is required on all facets of life, specially agriculture. There is a need to increase some women-centric schemes, technologies and approaches. 204 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series ISSUES CONCERNING CHILD RIGHTS IN INDIA CHALLENGES AND OPPORTUNITIES Priyank Kanoongo Every child has the right to have a balanced diet, adequate clothing, sufficient shelter and proper healthcare. Malnutrition is the major challenge which India faces. In India, 44 per cent of children under the age of five are underweight and 72 per cent of infants. Major cause of malnutrition in the country is economic inequality and owing to this, diets often lack both quality and quantity. Anganwadi’s can play an important role in alleviating malnutrition by providing basic healthcare. Each anganwadi should have a herbal garden for providing supple- mentary nutrition and should be teaching everyone the important of balanced diet. Mid-day meal is another initiative by the Government to alleviate hunger and malnutrition in school children. Even all schools have free space and there herbal and vegetable garden can be developed. This can provide supplementary nutrition. In India, agriculture is not a business it is our Mr Priyank Kanoongo is the Chairperson of the National Commission for Protection of Child Rights, Government of India. He has worked on the education and reintegration of the out-of-school children with the mainstream education. He emphasizes on the principle of universality of the child rights. 205 Social Issues and Sports Sanskriti.