 Additionally some farmers/agri- innovators/entrepreneurs/students/ alumni could also be selected as ICAR brand ambassadors for a period of about two years. yy Drivers of all staff cars (throughout ICAR), while on duty, should be in uniform bearing ICAR logo on front pocket of shirt. yy For paid advertisements on print and electronic media, DKMA should centrally empanel appropriate agency(ies) to provide services to all the ICAR establishments. Latest list of such agencies should be available on ICAR website for ready reference. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 12 Third Party Level Technology licensees, Incubates, startups, funding beneficiaries, SAUs and educational institutes who are in receipt of support from ICAR in the form of finance, intellectual property, accreditation, etc. are covered under this category. Such beneficiaries are encouraged to use ICAR logo on their banners, publications, websites, extension materials, media content, product labels, etc. following the guidelines as indicated in Annexure VI. The IP beneficiaries (license and test report holders), trainees, stake holders by the virtue of MoU of MoA with ICAR and/or it’s constituting institutes/ bureau/centers/companies etc. can use ICAR and institute logo (if any) on banner, publication, websites, extension materials, media content, product labels, etc. with prior permission from the concerned ICAR body. However, such usage would be limited to the product/service/reports/ technology/license/event/software etc. which have been availed from the ICAR or its constituent body. Directors of the ICAR institutes/bureau/ directorates/centers and CEO of Agrinnovate India Ltd. will be competent to grant appropriate permissions in this regard. All conditions of such permissions and restrictions in such events and time periods would be clearly specified in the MoU/Moa/permission letters etc. Directors of institutes/bureau/directorates/centers and CEO of Agrinnovate India Ltd. will not however permit such usage to the stakeholders other than those mentioned above, without permission from ICAR headquarters. Director General (ICAR) will be the ultimate competent authority of invoking or revoking of any granted permissions or any decisions in this regard.