 Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna, S/o Shri Ghasi Ram, Khai Khera, Rithoura dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri P. Krishnamoorthy, 92-B State Bank Colony, Secretary, CENARD. Batlagundu. Nilakottai, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 202 Shri Samarjeetsingh Rane, Porye, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Siwas Mousam Borah, Bipin Phukan (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2975 Use of leaf extract for pulse storage 2976 Storage of sesame seeds 2977 Seed storage in bin injurious to health. Therefore Shri Siwas conducted an experiment to check the effectiveness of herbal plants to control the rice moth and other pests in stored grains. In this experiment, leaves and branches of Croton tiglium (konibih) and Azadirachta indica (mohaneem) are mixed properly, and are spread at the bottom, between and at upper surface in the stored paddy grains. Keywords: moth, stored grain, neem, konibih Pulse grains are normally stored after drying. Leaf extract of malai vembu {Melia azadirachta) and thumbai (Leucas aspera) are mixed with red soil. This mixture is coated on the grains. It is allowed to dry in shade for 5 days. The dried grains are packed in gunny bags. Keywords: pulse storage, malai vembu, thumbai, red soil After harvesting sesame (Sesamum indicum), good and healthy seeds are selected with care to store them for the next season. Pounded dried chillies (Capsicum frutescens) and dried bambara leaves are mixed, and it is kept with sesame seeds during storage. Smell of chilly and bambara leaf drive away the storage pests. The smell acts as repellent against any storage pest and disease. Keywords: sesame, chillies, bambara leaves, insect repellent After harvesting, good and healthy seeds are selected with care to store them for next season. To store grains, a storage structure, i.e. bin, is used. At the time of seed storage, notchi (Vitex negundo), neem {Azadirachta indica) Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri S. Periyakaruppan, S/o Shri Seeni, North Street, Kachikatty, Thalampatty Vadipatty, dist. Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 218 Shri M. Jabamala, S/o Shri Micheal Manae Udaiyar, village Madhavalikadu, Thirupurangulam, (via P.O. Venkatakulam), dist. Alangudi, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 301 Shri R. Govindasamy, Peruvalur, Gingee, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 208 Content GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2978 Storage of paddy in earthen pot 2980 Storage of cereals grains in moond and pungam (Pongamia pinnata) leaves are mixed. Apart from mixing, a few leaves are spread at the top of seeds. On the top of it, waste paper and paddy straw are spread to cover the surface.