 Although the rate of inflation has been benign during 2013-14 to 2022-23 as compared to the preceding decade yet the terms of trade which were in favour of agriculture sector during 2003-04 to 2012-13 have become adverse in the current decade. Taking all these factors into consideration the goal of doubling farmers income in seven years’ time period is not at all an easy task. Basic framework for doubling farmers’ income After duly recognising and understanding the unfavourable terms of trade for agriculture sector in India and the resultant plight of our farmers, the Government of India contemplated the idea of doubling farmers’ income by 2022. Despite being highly debatable issue, it has become the best ever source of direction and action towards ensuring better economic health of Indian farmers. Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare has suggested a highly thought out seven points meticulous action plan for Doubling Farmers’ Income by 2022 by way of increasing farm production and productivity, lowering cost of cultivation, ensuring better prices of farm produce, Indian Horticulture 46 increasing non-farm income of farmers, diversification towards high value crops and efficient post-harvest management of agricultural produce by food processing and mitigation of post-harvest losses as the major components (Box-1). Potato is one of the best crops that covers large number of components of the action plan for Doubling Farmers’ Income and this article attempts to aptly describe this unnoticed potential. The Indian economic thinktank has estimated contribution of different components of farming for enhancing farmers’ income during 7 years’ period ending 2022-23 (Box 2). Potato crop has very high relevance even in these components as the use of drip irrigation technology, better quality seed potato, better potato technologies and efficient dissemination of technical knowhow to potato farmers will bring higher than 17.6% yield enhancement in potato crop. Similarly, with the help of soil health cards, neem oil coated urea, drip irrigation application and fertigation are estimated to bring more than 13.3% cost reduction in potato crop. Area enhancement under potato crop is expected to be much higher than just 4.1 suggested in the box, hence crop diversification benefits for potato crop have been considered overweight.