 B. V. Ramana Emerging technologies in farm mechanization for rainfed agriculture 64 I. Srinivas, Ashish S. Dhimate, Ravikant Adake, B. Sanjeeeva Reddy and V. R. Mallikarjuna Agromet advisory services for managing extreme weather events in dryland regions 68 Santanu Kumar Bal, M. A. Sarath Chandran, A. V. M. Subba Rao and Timmanna Scalable climate resilient technologies in diverse rainfed agro-ecologies 73 G. Pratibha, P. S. Prabhamani and V. K. Singh Technology and knowledge dissemination: Need for scaling impacts in rainfed areas 78 K. Ravi Shankar, G. Nirmala, K. Nagasree, P. K. Pankaj, C. N. Anshida Beevi, Jagriti Rohit, S. Vijaya Kumar and V. K. Singh Use of next-gen technologies in rainfed agriculture: Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning 82 and Drones N. Ravi Kumar, R. Nagarjuna Kumar, N. Showri Raju, G. Ravindra Chary and Vinod Kumar Singh Developing value chains for rainfed production systems 86 K. Narsaiah System diversification for sustainable livelihoods in the north eastern Himalayan region of India 89 Sanjeev Kumar, Ruchika Chaudhary, Aastika Pandey, Khushboo Devi and Subhash Babu Entrepreneur diversification in arid agriculture 93 S. P. S. Tanwar, N. K. Jat, Pramendra and O. P. Meena Managing drought risk in rainfed agriculture 98 Josily Samuel, C. A. Rama Rao, B. M. K. Raju, S. Lokesh and V. K. Singh Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers.