 151 Animal Sciences 151 • Grain Sprouts Production – It is easy and cost-effective method to produce mould-free sprouts with minimum requirement of water and provides better scope for efficient utilization of crop residues and vertical green fodder production. • AB Free: Phytogenic blend as replacement of antibiotic growth promoter in poultry • Pineapple fruit residues silage as fodder source for livestock. The technology has been commercialized. • Areca-sheath as an alternate dry fodder for livestock. • Strategic supplementation of limiting nutrients through locally available feedstuffs for improved milk production. • Azolla cultivation in portable HDPE containers. • Value added animal products: Low cholesterol egg and omeg-3-enriched poultry meat developed by dietary manipulation. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stake holders. • Technologies/Products: Area Specific Mineral Mixture, Sheepmin & Goatmin, HaritDhara & Tamarin Plus, ReproFat Plus, Milk Replacer for Lambs, Reprovardhak, BUFFASOL, Grain Sprouts Production etc. • Services: Proximate analysis of feed and fodders, fiber fractions and analysis of fatty acids; Estimation of minerals, metabolizable energy, aflatoxins, hormones etc. 152 ICAR Institutes Profile 152 ICAR-National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics 1. Contact details i) Postal Address: ICAR-National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics (ICAR-NIVEDI), Ramagondanahalli, Post Box No. 6450,Yelahanka, Bengaluru-560064, Karnataka, India ii) Name of the Director: Dr. B. R. Shome (A) iii) Email ID : director.nivedi@icar.gov.in; Phone no.: 080 23093100/110/111 2. Mandate and activities A. Epidemiology, informatics and economics of animal diseases including zoonoses. • Outbreak investigation, identification of risk factors • Development of national level risk map of economically important diseases B. Surveillance, forecasting and forewarning for management of animal diseases including zoonoses. • Estimates of disease burden (seroprevalence) • Disease forecasting /forewarning C. Repository and capacity development. • Maintenance of National Livestock Serum Bank • Organization of capacity-building programs at national and international level. 3. Salient achievements • Rinderpest eradication-The institute was the nodal center for sero-monitoring/surveillance of Rinderpest during the eradication programme and played a pivotal role in implementing the project from 1990-1998.In the VIII plan, the institute was strengthened by providing 32 state level diagnostic/disease investigation laboratories for sero-monitoring activity under National Project on Rinderpest Eradication (NPRE) with support of ICAR and European Union.