 Heavy infestation at vegetative stage may twist the top leaves and prevent either the formation or emergence of panicles. Stem borers Among the stem borers, Chilo partellus and Sesamia inferens are pre-dominant in India. Pearl millet appears to be immune to stem borer attack at initial stages of crop growth, but it becomes susceptible to internodes injury in latter stage. Spotted stem borer: The larvae feed on the upper surface of whorl leaves leaving the lower surface intact as transparent windows. As the severity of the feeding increases, blend of punctures and scratches of epidermal feeding appears prominently. Sometimes, dead heart symptoms also develop in younger plants due to early attack. Subsequently, the larvae bore into the stem resulting in extensive stem tunneling. Peduncle tunneling results in either breakage or complete or partial chaffy panicle. During the dry season, the larva enters into diapauses and survives in harvested stalks/ stems as well as stubbles left in the field. Ragi stem borer/pink borer: The female moth lays about 150 creamy-white and hemi-spherical eggs that are arranged in 2 or 3 rows between the leaf sheath and the stem. The pink larva bores into the stem and damages the central shoot resulting in dead heart. Stem borer damage in millets Earhead pests Sorghum midge: The adult fly is small, fragile with a bright orange abdomen and a pair of transparent wings. It lays eggs singly in developing florets resulting in pollen shedding. Larvae are colourless, but when fully grown, they are dark orange. It pupates beneath the glumes and when the adult emerges the white pupal skin remains at the tip of the spikelet. Head beetles: Several species of beetles have been recently recorded in millet growing areas. They feed on flowers and inhibit the grain formation. Head caterpillars: They feed on the developing grains and webbings with frass are often seen on the panicle. Head bugs: Head bugs suck the sap from the developing grains, causing distortion and shrinking. Grains are later infected by fungus, causing blackening. Pest management Cultural methods • Collect and burn stubbles and chaffy ear heads which will prevent the carryover of overwintering pest. • Deep ploughing one month before planting will expose the immature stages of insects and predators that prey upon them. • Adopt synchronous and timely/early sowings of cultivars with similar maturity to reduce the damage by shoot fly, midge and head bugs. • Crop rotation is recommended with cotton, groundnut or sunflower, to reduce the damage by shoot fly, midge and earhead bugs. Intercropping Indian Farming 66 January 2023 sorghum with pigeon pea, cowpea, or lablab also reduces the damage by stem borers. • Use high seed rates 1.5 times more and delay thinning (to maintain optimum plant stand) to minimize shoot fly damage. Mechanical method • Set up light traps till midnight to monitor, attract and kill adults of stem borer, grain midge, June beetle and other moth pests.