 He placed on record the contribution of Dr. Peter Carberry, ex-DG, ICRISAT and extended a hearty welcome to the New DG, Dr. J d’A. Hughes, wishing her success during her tenure. DG, ICRISAT Dr. J. Hughes acknowledged the ICAR Partnership and called on the CG Centres to work together to benefit India. Additional Secretary of DARE and Secretary of ICAR, Shri Sanjay Singh emphasized on factoring in unforeseen situations such as the current pandemic in all our research endeavours and using new IT solutions for enhanced efficiency in operations. This briefing was followed by presentations. After each presentation, detailed discussions were held, and the action points emerged have been documented below: (I) International Crops Research Institute Semi- Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) i. Dr. Kiran Sharma gave a presentation on the projects on legumes and millets highlighting different aspects including variety development, molecular marker-assisted backcrossing, biparental/association mapping, molecular characterization and QTL based mapping, screening of breeding lines, insect resistance in pigeonpea and chickpea, and new breeding techniques including the deployment of CRISPR technology for gene editing. ii. During 2019, 14 varieties and hybrids were released in India from the breeding materials developed through ICAR-ICRISAT collaborations. These include two machine harvestable varieties of chickpea, two high oleic varieties of groundnut, one high yielding and fusarium wilt resistant variety of pigeonpea, four biofortified hybrids of pearl millet, two multi-cut forage varieties of pearl millet and three multi-cut forage varieties of sorghum. iii. There were 128 breeding lines (chickpea 75, pigeonpea 5, groundnut 16, sorghum 32) and 79 hybrids (pigeonpea 8, pearl millet 59, sorghum 12) developed through ICAR-ICRISAT collaborations in various AICRP trials during 2019. iv. Apart from these, he mentioned that integrated farming systems have also been established in four districts of Maharashtra, Telangana and Andhra Pradesh. Dr Sharma presented the work plan for 2020-2021 that has been agreed with the ICAR partners. After detailed discussion, the following action points were decided: yy ICRISAT to make efforts to widen the genetic base in groundnut and pigeonpea through pre- breeding and sharing of advanced breeding lines with the national partners. yy Knowledge-sharing (e.g. mapping panel) and partnership across the NARS to achieve faster progress in groundnut and legumes. Proceedings of the Review Meeting of ICAR-CGIAR Partnership (2019-20) Annexure ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 80 yy Systematic approach for gene editing in crops was emphasized. Specifically, efforts be made towards CFTs of transgenic events of pigeonpea developed by ICRISAT. yy ICRISAT should prepare a yearly plan for capacity building of national partners in areas such as generation and use of genomic resources, data analytics, speed breading and genome editing.