 The fishing effort needs to be optimized by (i) regulating fishing vessel design and construction, with more focus on energy-efficient fishing and strategies for making green vessels, (ii) regulating fishing gear concerning mesh size and gear dimension, (iii) regulating destructive fishing methods such as pair trawling/bull trawling and mini trawling, and (iv) strict implementation of spatial zoning regulations. The potential of artificial intelligence (AI) and big data is enormous, which can be utilized for effective monitoring, control, and surveillance (MCS). Tracking fishing vessels and strengthening the traceability of fish caught are important aspects. Regular stock assessment of major commercial fishes and adoption of Ecosystem Approach to Fisheries Management (EAFM) principles and application AI in marine fisheries data collection are necessary to monitor and devise strategic management of fish wealth. Likewise, measures to explore the potential of hitherto commercially unexploited species, including deep-sea resources need to be taken up. India’s deep-sea harvestable potential (depths between 200 and 2000 meters) in both EEZs and Areas Beyond National Jurisdiction (ABNJ) is estimated to be over 3.3 Mt. This mainly includes the oceanic tuna, non-conventional deep-sea resources such as mesopelagic myctophids, giant purple-back squid, and other species in the Indian Ocean that can be harnessed through technological advancements and greater capital investments. Impact assessments and evaluations of climate change adaptation and mitigation policies must be founded on extensive assessments of risks and opportunities, benefits, and costs, as well as on modelling approaches that incorporate data from a variety of sources. Special emphasis should be placed on changes in the phenology of major fish species, temperature tolerance, the impact of algal blooms and their relationship to fisheries, the appearance and spread of invasive species, and the vulnerabilities of reef and other delicate marine and freshwater ecosystems. Climate change adaptation strategies must also be incorporated into the fisheries regulations, as well as capacity building and awareness campaigns, into action plans. The large gap between potential and actual fish yields from culture-based fisheries resources like rivers, reservoirs, and wetlands provides plenty of room for fisheries improvement. Large-scale cage and pen culture in reservoirs for raising proper stocking material; wider reservoir coverage for stocking advanced fingerlings; and using Remote Sensing and GIS Indian Agriculture after Independence 204 technologies to create appropriate databases required for the formulation of appropriate management norms and ensuring environmental flows for riverine systems are all necessary for the sustainability of inland fisheries and biodiversity conservation.