 However, a risk-tolerant farmer aiming for maize pro­ ductivity exceeding 5.5 t ha−1 could allocate either 100 % of their land to ZT-MCS or divide it between ZT-MCS and ZT-MMuMb in a 4:1 ratio (as detailed in Fig. 3). The net return frontier also indicates a similar allocation of land for a farmer aiming to maximize returns (Fig. 4). The practical realities of implementing these portfolios need to be consid­ ered especially in cases where a very small proportion of the land is allocated to a particular system. The optimal weights for various maize-based systems, determined using the mean-conditional value at risk optimization model are given in Table B1 and Table B2 in the appendix. 3.2. Rabi crops profitability evaluation The net return from different rabi/winter season crops varied significantly, owing to difference in productivity and crop specific market price (Fig. 5). The least net return of <50,000 INR ha−1 was observed under CT-winter maize and wheat (Fig. 5). In contrast, the highest net returns were observed for ZT-mustard and PB-mustard, averaging over 75,000 INR ha−1. We used the net-return frontier for rabi/winter-season crop to determine the optimal land allocation for higher return, independent of kharif (rainy) season crop performance. However, it is equally important to consider the impact of the rabi/ winter season crop on the risk-return tradeoff of kharif maize, and vice versa when adopting a systemic approach. We present a system level portfolio in the subsequent section. Through the mean-variance opti­ mization model, we assessed whether there are preferred combinations for the rabi season. The frontier indicated that ZT-mustard emerges as the most profitable option, making it the choice for a risk-neutral farmer (as shown in Fig. 6). For mildly risk-averse farmers, a blend of ZT-winter maize and ZT-mustard is favored, with a suggested allocation of 70 % and 30 % of the land area, respectively. Meanwhile, those leaning to­ wards being very risk-averse would find a mix of ZT-winter maize and CT-wheat as the preferred rabi crop, with recommended allocations of 34 % and 66 % of the total land area, respectively. The optimal weights obtained using the mean-conditional value at risk optimization model and are presented in Appendix B, Table B2. While the combination of ZT-winter maize and mustard may be preferred by a mildly risk-averse farmer in the rabi season, it is important to note that they stand to benefit more in the kharif season, yielding returns of ~60,856 ha−1 (calculated as 0.7 × 58,639 + 0.3 × 61,807) with a standard deviation of about 37,085. This standard deviation is lower than the maximum kharif return on the higher risk side. However, using this portfolio in the kharif season would be suboptimal, as the returns from maize are less than the maximum return option for the kharif season (ZT-MCS), which yields about 62,950 INR at a significantly lower standard deviation of 30,300 INR.