 Subject to the approval of the Government of India previously obtained, the Society may alter or extend the purpose for which it is established or be amal- gamated either wholly or partially with any othei Society by following the undermentioned procedure:- (a) The Governing Body shall convene a Special General Meeting of the Members of the Soci- ety, according to these Rules for the consideration of the said proposition, (b) The Governing Body shall submit the propo- sition for such alteration, extension or amalgamation as aforesaid to the members of the Society in a written or printed report, (c) Such report shall be delivered or sent by post to every member of the Society fifteen clear days previous to the said Special General Meeting, (d) Such proposition shall be deemed to have been agreed to if not less than three-fifths of the members of the Society cast their votes in its favour either in person or by proxy at the said Special General Meeting, and (e) Such proposition shall be confirmed by the votes of three-fifths or members of the Soci- ety present at the Second Special General Meeting convened by the Governing Body at an interval of one month after the former meeting. 83. The Rules of the Society may, with the sanction of the Government of India, be altered at any time by a Resoultion passed by a majority of the members of the Society at a meeting of the Society convened for the purpose. 84. The Society, may, with the approval of the Govern- ment of India, change its name by a resolution passed by a majority of the members of the Society at any meeting of the Society convened for the purpose. 85. The membership of one body will not be a bar to the membership of other bodies. Revised Rules of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research adopted at the Annual General Meet- ing of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society held at New Delhi on the 18th January, 1975 vide File No. 2-31/74-Reorgn(Admn) and approved by the Government of India vide No. l-l/ 75-Reogn. (DARE) dated the 4th April, 1975. 32 BYE-LAWS OF THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SOCIETY BYE-LAWS OF THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (Framed under Rule 40 of the Rules of the ICAR Society) I. FINANCIAL A. Budget and Finance Preparation of Budget 1. (a) Not later than the first February of each year Estimates the Secretary shall prepare detailed Budget Estimates of receipts and expenditure (with the anticipated opening and closing balances of the Society) for the ensuing financial year. The budget shall be in the form prescribed in this behalf in the Regulations framed under these bye-laws. (b) The estimates shall show separately the sums required to meet the expenditure from income out of the following: i) Government of India grants, ii) Proceeds from the Agricultural Produce Cess Act, and ill) Other sources.