 Ultimately, branding and boosting the entrepreneurship through providing incubation platforms, providing marketing intelligence and handholding for technological backup are prerequisite in the coming days to sustain the banana production and promotion of value addition. For further interaction, please write to: P Suresh Kumar (Principal Scientist), Fruit Science, ICAR-NRC for Banana, Thogamalai Road, Trichy, Tamil Nadu 620 102. Corresponding author e-mail: psureshars@gmail.com Flowers always make people better, happier, and more helpful; they are sunshine, food and medicine for the soul. – Luther Burbank March–April 2021 41 Salej Sood*, S Sundaresha, Vinay Bhardwaj, Hemant Kardile and Kumar Nishant Chourasia Reinventing potato breeding through true potato seed based technology Potato is the major staple food in many countries of the world. It has a long history of cultivation in its area of origin i.e. Andean region of Peru. It is propagated through tubers to maintain the purity of cultivars due to high heterozygosity and polyploid genome. The cultivated potatoes are auto-tetraploid and self- compatible. But upon selfing they show high inbreeding depression due to high heterozygosity in parental lines and may be expression of lethal alleles on selfing. The homozygous lines therefore could not be developed in tetraploid potato and the varieties as well as advanced breeding material are maintained in the form of tubers only. Maintenance of varieties and other breeding lines through clonal propagation in the form of tubers lead to accumulation of pests and diseases particularly viruses, which keep on multiplying in each cycle of clonal propagation. This leads to diminution of varieties productivity and acceptance. Moreover, the potato breeding programme takes more than 12 years to develop a new variety and is based on clonal propagation of tubers. The seed of the variety is also multiplied clonally through tubers with a seed multiplication rate of approximately 1: 8 tubers per year. There are two approaches which have been envisioned at the global level for using TPS as the propagation material in potato. Research P OTATO propagation through diploid hybrid TPS is a completely new breeding method, developed in Netherland and is being adopted in all potato growing countries including India. The new diploid hybrid breeding technology works by sexual propagation. The method is based on identification, evaluation of diploid cultivated species and dihaploids of Solanum tuberosum for selection of desired clones with acceptable tuber and other plant traits. Diploid potatoes are naturally self-incompatible. The sli gene for inducing self-compatibility is introgressed in diploid clones and selfing is done for few generations to get homozygous diploid lines.