 ❑ BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH Lesions in Nile Tilapia co- infected with TiLV and TiPV Isolation of TiPV in OnL cell line TEM of OnL cells-infected with TiPV showing virus particles in both nucleus and cytoplasm Sulfated glycosaminoglycan (PIP-2) isolated from brown mussel Perna indica ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 161 ICT Initiatives Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Window (SPARROW): SPARROW is an online system for electronic filling of Annual Performance Appraisal Report (APAR) of officers. During the year ICAR has implemented SPARROW for scientific cadre in addition to administrative, technical and supporting cadres. A total of 17,691 PARs have been generated for the year 2022– 23. Officials of ICAR Headquarters and its institutes including nodal officer/master trainer/custodian/admin/ scientists were given training to fill-up APAR. The data of scientific personnel were fetched from ARMS in sparrow through API for completing their APAR. Agricultural Research Management System (ARMS): The online portal for all ICAR scientists to submit their significant research achievements, Agricultural Research Management System (ARMS) has been developed and implemented. This system will be used for reporting of various kinds of achievements and accomplishments of the scientists during the year in the council. These achievements are to be uploaded in by the respective scientist on monthly basis. The information submitted by scientists will be duly verified by reporting officer, PME in-charge and reviewing officer at various stages in a prescribed time period. An Application Programming Interface (API) (http:// aparapi.icar.gov.in/) has been developed for sharing the achievement data filled by ICAR scientists with the Smart Performance Appraisal Report Recording Online Window (SPARROW) portal. These two online digital platforms have been linked to avoid multiple time submission of same information by the scientists. This also helps in maintaining consistency of information across different platforms of ICAR. Online evaluation workflow has been implemented for reporting officer and reviewing officer including final disclose of rating to the concern scientist. Two-way exchange of publication data between KRISHI portal and ARMS portal has also been implemented to avoid the duplicate reporting of publications in either of these digital platforms. The system is accessible from https://arms.icar.gov.in and team is providing regular support to ICAR scientists through email (support.arms@icar.gov.in) as well as support portal (support.icar.gov.in). ICAR eOffice: eOffice software developed by National Informatics Centre (NIC) has been implemented across 113 ICAR institutes along with their regional stations/sub-stations. The ICAR eOffice is hosted at ICAR data centre and is running successfully. During this period 5,754 files has been created and presently 4,982 files are found to be in active state. ICAR DARPAN Dashboard (http://icar. dashboard.nic.