 (c) For the purpose of Section 6 of the Societies Registration Act (21 of 1860) the Secretary shall be considered the Principal Secretary of the Society and the Society may sue or be sued in the name of the Secretary of the Society. The Secretary may authorize any other officer of the Society in writing to sign and verify pleadings on his behalf. (d) The Secretary may, in writing, delegate such of his powers as he may consider necessary to any officer subordinate to him. 24. (a) The Secretary shall function under the directions of the Society, the Governing Body, the President, the Vice-President and the Director-General. (b) The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept minutes of the proceedings of the Society and the Governing Body and take necessary action in connection therewith. (c) The Secretary shall keep or cause to be kept all records of the Society at its office or any other place to be determined by the Governing Body. VII. AGRICULTURAL SCIENTISTS RECRUITMENT BOARD 25. There shall be an Agricultural Scientists' 11 Recruitment Board with a whole time Chairman and other members who shall be appointed by the President, with the approval of the Government of India. 25(a) If the Office of the Chairman of the ASRB becomes vacant or if he is by reasons of absence or for any other reasons unable to perform the duties of his Office, these duties shall until some other person is appointed under Rule 25 to the vacant office, has entered on the duties thereof or, as the case may be until the Chairman has resumed his duties or a new Chairman has been appointed, be performed by such of the other member of the ASRB as the President, Indian Council of Agricultural Research may appoint for the purpose. 25(b) The Chairman and other Members of the ASRB shall hold office for a term of 6 years from the date on which they enter upon their office or until they attain the age of 65 years, whichever is earlier. 25 (c) (i) Subject to the provisions mentioned herein below, the Chairman or any other Member of the ASRB shall only be removed from his office by order of President, ICAR on ground of misbehaviour after a high powered Committee of three members nominated by the Governing Body on reference being made to it by the President has on enquiry held in accordance with the principle of natural justice reported that the Chairman or such other Member, as the case may be, ought on any such grounds to be removed. Notwithstanding anything mentioned above, the President may by order remove from office the Chairman or any other member of the ASRB, if the Chairman or such other Member, as the case may be :- (a) is adjudged as insolvent; or (b) engages during his term of Office in any paid employment outside the duties of his Office; or (c) is in the opinion of the President, unfit to continue in office by reason of infirmity of mind or body.