 In south Gujarat, CSSD technology was installed in Patel’s farm situated at Virpor and Ghala village, Taluka Choriyasi, District Surat of Gujarat in the command of Surat branch under Ukai Kakrapar (UKC) irrigation project. With successful operation of the system installed during 2012-13 at farmers filed, the water logging problem has reduced and average water table has been lowered from 36.5 to 50.0 cm. The soil salinity has been reduced from 6.7 to 3.5 Ds/m. The sugarcane yield has increased from 58 to 96 t/ha i.e. 65.5 % higher than areas not adopting CSSD technology. The farmers are happy and express the satisfaction over the performance of dual purpose subsurface cum irrigation system. Keywords: Closed sub-surface drainage, PCV pipe, Soil salinity, Sugarcane, Waterlogging Indian Farming 70(11): 14–17; November 2020 I RRIGATION projects play a pivotal role in enhancing the crop productivity, livelihoods of the farmers and prosperity to the area. However, if the irrigation facility developed is not properly utilized, then the natural resources viz., soils and crops/vegetation may be deteriorated to such an extent that they become unproductive. Though drainage is envisaged in project document of each and every command, seldom it receives due attention after commissioning of the project. The introduction of irrigated agriculture, however, has resulted in the development of the twin problems of water logging and soil salinization. Farmers apply huge quantities of canal water assuming more irrigation could bring more yield. Furthermore, the introduction of canal irrigation not only brings the much needed water, but also imports salts as irrigation water contains area, 15% of land is actually suffering from these problems and another 25% land is critical mainly due to high clay containing soils, adoption of faulty irrigation methods (flooding, field to field etc.) by ignoring the land irrigability classification. Besides, inclination towards high water consuming crops like paddy, sugarcane, banana etc., by neglecting suggested cropping pattern and heavy rainfall (1,400 mm). Under these circumstances, subsurface drainage is considered as a most suitable approach for removal of excess groundwater from the crop root zone system which promotes safe environment for efficient crop growth. Moreover, subsurface drainage has been found to be the only solution for providing land reclamation on a long-term basis when salts are present in the soil and groundwater. The scientists have considerable amounts of salt. In many canal commands, there has been a rise in the water table and consequent degradation of soils through water logging and secondary salt build-up. Further the impact of irrigation over many years have caused the ground water table to rise into root zones in these command areas, which led to reduction in crop yields.