 A herbal formulation is prepared with equal amounts (1kg) of leaves of custard apple (Annona squamosa), turmeric rhizome, ‘Peenari Changu’(Clerodendrum inermis), ‘Chothukatralai’ (Aloe vera), ‘nochi’(Vitex negundo) and ‘neem’ (Azadirachta indica) kernel. All the ingradients are ground in to a paste by adding sufficient water. This way about 5 litres of juice is extracted. This is diluted with another 15 litres of water. This herbal extract is administered in to the crown region at the rate of 2 litres per palm after harvesting of nuts. This can be repeated once in two months i.e. each harvesting time (Erode, Tamil Nadu). Chellamuthu (2000) 172 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 53 Control of rhinoceros beetle in coconut by providing alternate host Keeping cowdung slurry and groundnut cake in water in earthen pots @ 20-25 pots/ha minimizes damage by rhinoceros beetle in coconut gardens because of the fermenting mixture attracts this pest (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 54 Pruning of fruit trees for better growth Pruning and training of fruit trees is an important indigenous practice performed during the dormant season to create a proper frame and to provide symmetry to the tree and ensure proper balanced growth. Some inconspicuous pests such as aphids which hibernate as egg nymphs are automatically removed along with pruned branches/twigs thereby mitigating the severity of their attack in the next season. Further pruning of old, damaged and weak portion of the tree encourages new growth which is healthier and stronger. Pruned plants have less pest infestation rate (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 55 Cow dung and clay fruit trees mixture for control of pests and diseases in fruit trees The practice of applying a thin paste made of cowdung, clay and cow urine as a disinfectant on the floor of mud (kutcha) houses in rural areas is an age old practice. Similarly the application of paste to treat wounds and injured limbs of fruit trees has been in vogue in villages. A fine slurry is prepared by thorough mixing of clay, cowdung and cow urine in a container. This mixture possess antibacterial properties (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 56 Control of blight in onion Farmers move empty gunny bag over the onion crop in the field early in the morning when ‘Jal Dhui’ is done. They also irrigate the crop immediately after the ‘Jal dhui’ is observed. It is believed by the farmers that due to this operation attack of Karpa (Blight) on onion crop is minimized. The scientific reason behind is that due to moving of empty gunny bag over onion crop the moist portion on the tips on onion leaves is minimized. Moist portion on the leaves is congenial for sporulation of fungus/bacteria which results in Alternaria (Karpa) diesease of onion. Low temperature is also congenial to sporulation of Alternaria. Due to irrigating the crop early in the morning the sporulation is minimized (Solapur, Maharashtra).