 Organization of Swachhta Pakhwada/Swachhta Hi Sewa, Collecting and compiling the Swachhta Pakhwada Daily reports and uploading on the portal, handling the Swachh Bharat Mission: Organizing of Review Meetings of ICAR Institutes by Hon’ble Agriculture Minister/Hon’ble DG, ICAR to review the ICAR Institutes. To collect, compile and provide the agenda to the Ministry of Home Affairs for Zonal Council Meetings, Arranging the Review Meetings of ICAR Institutes under the Chairmanship of Hon’ble AM, Various Campaigns from Government of India, Inter-ministerial assignments, Convergence of various Central Government Schemes and Organization of various important events viz. Foundation Day and Award Ceremony and all matter related to ICAR Awards including revision of guidelines for Awards. ICAR Director’s Conference and Annual Conference of Vice Chancellors was organized on March 4-5, 2023 at Bharat Ratna Dr. C Subramaniam Auditorium NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi.The conference was organized in physical mode and inaugurated by Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR) Shri J. N. Swain, Secretary, Department of Fisheries and Sh. Manoj Ahuja, Secretary, DA&FW and all the DDGs, ICAR participated as special guest. During the conference addressing the gathering, Himanshu Pathak, Secretary (DARE) & DG different subjects like Agricultural Science, Animal and Fishery Science and Horticultural Science were brought out in Hindi and Regional Languages by the Council and its institutes from time to time. With a view to provide Knowledge of various technologies on agriculture and wider publicity thereof, monthly Hindi magazine Kheti was published regularly. Rajbhasha Aalok, in-house Hindi magazine of ICAR Headquarters, was published regularly. This magazine includes articles on scientific subjects and government schemes in simple Hindi besides reports of various schemes and programmes being organized by the council and its institutes from time to time. Total number of notified subordinate offices of the Council under Rule 10(4) of Official Languages Rules, 1976 has increased up to 149. During the period under report, 4 meetings of Official Language Implementation Committee were conducted on 21 December 2022; 24 March 2023; 30 June 2023; and 4 October 2023 respectively. In most of the ICAR Institutes/centers, Official Language Implementation Committees (OLIC) have been constituted and Meetings thereof were conducted regularly. The quarterly progress reports of ICAR-Headquarters are being sent on-line to the Delhi situated Regional Implementation Office, Department of Official Language, Government of India. The quarterly progress reports received from various Institutes are being reviewed and suggestions are given to them for effective implementation of OL policy. ICAR is participating in TOLIC’s meetings regularly. Four Hindi workshops were organized during this Period (i.e. 12 December 2022, 14 March 2023, 07 June 2023 and 10 August 2023).