28 kg CO2e per kg when grown after an oilseed a 24% to 32% reduction compared to when grown after a cereal (Gan et al., 2011). Agro ad- visories provide farmers with timely information to opti- mize crop management, reduce input costs, and enhance resource efficiency (Sreenivasrao et al., 2024). Timely weather updates help farmers plan sowing, pest control, and other essential practices. During droughts, tailored advice on crop selection and management practices suited to local conditions can mitigate the risk of crop and live- lihood failures. In semi-arid and arid regions, guidelines on integrating rainwater harvesting systems and using micro-irrigation during dry spells are vital. Satellite imag- ery, remote sensing, and early warning systems based on weather and historical data help monitor pest outbreaks and moisture stress in vulnerable areas. Additionally, mo- bile apps and SMS alerts that offer personalized agro-ad- visories based on location and crop selection are highly beneficial. These have huge influence on crop sowing, growth and yield and eventual carbon accumulation in agro-ecosystems. Dryland agriculture is playing a prominent and pivotal role in Indian agriculture. Out of 141 million ha of net sown area of India, approximately 80 million ha are under dryland farming. Mostly coarse cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, and cotton are cultivated in dryland areas. The constraints of low water availability, erratic and uneven rainfall, low soil fertility, unavailability of timely and quality inputs, and poor socio-economic conditions of farmers have led to lower productivity and profitability of dryland crops. India’s commitment to net zero emissions by 2070 has made the role of dryland agriculture in reduc- ing carbon footprints enormous. Practices such as conser- vation agriculture, crop diversification, agroforestry, wa- tershed management, livestock management, use of cover crops, and adoption of organic and natural farming could play a pivotal role in improving productivity, storage of soil organic carbon, and reducing greenhouse gas emis- sions. To achieve the daunting task of higher crop produc- tion with a reducing carbon footprint, farmers, scientists, extension workers, public and private agencies, and gov- ernment support are adequately required to make dryland agriculture carbon-inclusive/surplus and sustainable in the long way-to-go. REFERENCES Anderson, W.K., Stephens, D. and Siddique, K.H. 2016. Dryland agriculture in Australia: experiences and innovations. Inno- vations in dryland agriculture, pp. 299-319. Andrews, H.M., Homyak, P.M., Oikawa, P.Y., Wang, J. and Jenerette, G.D. 2022. Water-conscious management strate- gies reduce per-yield irrigation and soil emissions of CO2, N2O, and NO in high-temperature forage cropping systems. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 332: 107944. Baghel, J.K., Das, T.K., Mukherjee, I., Nath, C.P., Bhattacharyya, R., Ghosh, S. and Raj, R. 2020.