 India is one among the 47 member countries of CABI. CABI is providing KM assistance IFCO Kisan Sanchar Limited (IKSL) by providing scientific backstopping. It is now set to launch agro-infomediary service for farmers by combining knowledge with services and linking market. Plantwise is a global initiative led by CABI to improve food security by reducing crop losses. Dr. Khetarpal hinted the universities to come forward with attractive proposals for joint ventures in KM and K4D. Dr. Rajendra Chaudhary, ICARDA highlighted the following thrust areas and offered collaboration with AUs:  Undertake basic and strategic research for genetic enhancement for yield, quality, resistance to key biotic and abiotic stresses  Rangeland management, small ruminants’ improvement alternative feed resources & crop- livestock integration  Impact analysis of technological interventions on pulses and development of policy options  Capacity development: Individual and group training of young researchers/visits of Indian scientists to ICARDA and vice-versa  Biofortification (Fe & Zn): Lentil, Grasspea, Kabuli, Chickpea: (IARI, IIPR, IGAU)  Varietal development in Faba bean (Bakla) with resistance to chocolate spot, rust diseases and bold seed size: IARI, RAU  Use of multi-purpose Cactus varieties in Dry Area  Identification and tagging of molecular markers  Adaptation of Olive for diversification in arid region Dr Raj Gupta representing CIMMYT and BISA enumerated the collaborative network of CIMMYT with the NARS institutions. He informed about the various opportunities available for capacity building of scientists and teachers such as Visiting Scientists Program, Global Advance course in maize, wheat and CA, Advanced Regional Course on CA with PAU, Regional Short Course on CA with UAS and BAU, thesis research by MSc and PhD students, internships for graduate students and facilitation of scientists and teachers in global meets. Dr V. P. Singh from ICRAF unveiled the ICRAF collaborative plans and underlined the thrust areas for capacity building such as domestication, utilization and conservation of agroforestry germplasm, maximizing on-farm productivity of trees and agroforestry systems, improving tree product marketing for small holders, reducing risks to land health and targeting agroforestry interventions to enhance land productivity , improving the ability of farmers, ecosystems and the government institutions to cope with climate change, developing policies and incentives for multifunctional landscapes with trees that provide environmental services and capacity building, skills’ enhancement and strengthening of R&D institutions. This includes arrangement of training, developing learning resources, organizing workshops, conferences, site visits and travel assistance. He informed that many SAUs are already collaborating partners. Dr C.L.L. Gowda highlighted the scope of ICRISAT partnership with the SAUs.