 The clone KB-8 from Dwarf Cavendish consistently recorded higher bunch weight with a yield of 115 tonnes/ha at Kovvur. Planting 3 suckers with a plant spacing of 1.8 m × 3.6 m with 300:90:400 g N: P2O5 : K2O/plant/ year, respectively, recorded higher cost:benefit ratio. Planting of Rajapuri (AAB) in June-December, Nendran (AAB) in October-December, Basrai (AAA) in June- August, Tellachakkerakeli (AAA) in June-October was found ideal under Arabhavi, Kannara, Gandevi and Kovvur conditions respectively. Application of 50 g N through organic source (FYM/green mannure) and 150 g N through inorganic source enhanced the yield in Kothia (AAB), Grand Naine (AAA), Borhaji (AAA) and Poovan (AAB) at different agroclimatic regions. Covering of bunches with white polythene having 2% ventilation holes improved the finger size and bunch appeal under subtropical conditions during winter season. Tissue-cultured planting material was better in yield and crop duration. Intercropping with knol-khol and elephant-foot yam recorded good yield with higher cost : benefit ratio under Jorhat conditions. Application of fertilizer through drip resulted in a saving of 25% nutrients besides better crop response. Banana stem weevil, Odoiporus longicollis, is one of the most serious pest especially in North-Eastern and South India. Prophylactic spray of neenazol (2.5 ml/litre of water) or chlorphyrifos (2.5 ml/litre of water) on the pseudostem in 5 months old plants prevents egg laying by the weevil. Stem injections of monocrotophos solution (150 ml Monocrotophos + 350 ml of water) at 30 cm and 1.20 m above the ground level at 30° angle in opposite directions is recommended. However, the injection should not be given after flowering. CITRUS Tenali selection was found promising and showed tolerance to canker at Tirupati. Rangpur Lime as rootstock both for sweet orange and mandarin was found to be superior to other rootstocks. Rough lemon local was found to be tolerant to Pytophthora. Nagpur mandarin plants spaced at 6 m × 3 m (555 plants/ha) were found ideal for higher yield at Akola and Rahuri, respectively. Application of 1,200 g N, 400 g P2O5 and 400 g K2O/plant/year for 16 years old Nagpur mandarin recorded highest yield. In old Nagpur mandarin and acid lime orchards, medium pruning (removal of terminal shoots of 15-22 cm) recorded higher yields at Akola. In acid lime cv. Ambia bahar 2 sprays of cycocel @ 1,000 ppm induced maximum numbers of flowers/shoot. Citrus blackfly was effectively controlled by Monocrotophos (0.05%) or Fenvalerate (0.01%) or neem oil (1%) and lemon butterfly by Fenvalerate (0.01%). Spray of Fenvalerate (0.05%) followed by monocrotophos (0.05%) checked the Banana BRS 1 is ideal for dessert and cooking The seedlings of Nagpur mandarin are ready for transplanting IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 53 citrus leaf miner. Mealybug was effectively controlled by chlorpyriphos (0.05%). Soil drenching and spray of Metalaxyl (0.