 Underlying this objective are the following aims: (i) Foster research and a research culture that will use and advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge to effectively meet the present, anticipated and unanticipated problems of agriculture through various modes and critical investments in research projects; (ii) Build the capability of the National Agricultural Research System through development of wide partnerships in science through projects; (iii) Build a storehouse of advancement of knowledge in science related to agriculture and awareness of the national importance of basic and strategic research in agriculture; (iv) To provide policy support to the decision makers for use of basic and strategic research in agriculture and; (v) Organization of workshop, seminars, conferences, etc. to create awareness, prioritization, scientific popularization and related issues. The scheme has already funded 205 projects, mostly in consortium mode. At present 66 projects are in operation, out of which 62 are multi-institutional in nature. During last one year, NASF has taken many new initiatives like inclusion of allele mining, metabolomics, precision agriculture, application of sensors, nanotechnology and policy in agriculture as new strategic areas; and one mega project on Captive Breeding of Hilsa, Tenualosa ilisha: Phase II. Besides supporting, reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the ongoing projects during the year 2019–20, NASF evaluated 66 new full project proposals received under different themes of Call VIII by the respective expert committee. A total of 27 new projects were approved during the period. NASF also invited the pre proposals for new research projects under seven strategic areas for Call IX and received 1,345 pre- proposals, which are under the process of evaluation. NASF was also engaged in creating awareness for the need and nature of the basic research for agriculture among institutions within and outside the traditional NARS for prioritization of research. During the last year, four meetings of the Empowered Committee were organized for approval/ratification of new project proposals, review of the ongoing projects and to review/ decide the administrative and financial issues of the NASF. Besides one meeting of the Empowered Committee was also held on 4th March, 2020 for finalization of strategic areas of NASF for invitation of new pre proposals under Call IX, wherein members of Expert Committees, all senior officers of ICAR, Directors of neighboring ICAR institutes and other specialized experts were also invited.