 In other words, SA aims at evaluating which inputs and to what extent these inputs contribute to the variability of the results. According to Ligmann-Zie­ linska et al. (2020), the choice of the specific SA technique depends on the type of models, i.e., applied, empirically driven predictive vs. ab­ stract, theory-driven exploratory agent-based models. SA can be both global, where the analysis simultaneously explores outcome variability both due to single inputs (first-order) and input interactions (second- and higher orders), or local, where the analysis explores the outcome variability of single input change holding all other inputs in constant. Since our model is both an empirical and theory-driven exploratory model with multiple heterogeneous actors, we opted for a model-independent global method that produces sensitivity measures and accounts for nonlinearities. We selected variance-based SA analysis that decomposes output variance and assigns the partial variances to individual inputs and their interactions, producing two sensitivity Table 2 Algorithm of decision rules. Behavior type Decision-making rule Utility maximizer Step 1: Evaluates all possible adaptation options by comparing estimated yields or production across all different options available to the agent. Step 2: Selects the adaptation option with the highest food production (utility) expectation. Self-satisficer Step 1: Estimates the food requirement for the household based on household size. Step 2: Sequentially chooses among available adaptation options; if the strategy fulfills the food requirement, the agent selects the strategy. Social-normer Step 1: Scans the adaptation strategies selected by other agents in its village. Step 2: Selects the strategy that is selected by the maximum number of agents in their village. Random- choicer Step: Randomly selects an adaptation strategy among the possible options. U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 6 indices per input – first order and total effect (Ligmann-Zielinska et al., 2020). The results are presented as total-effect sensitivity indices (ST) which are analyzed relative to each other. We used the algorithm developed by Saltelli et al. (2010) with Sobol quasi-random sampling and radial design. Following the processes for SA outlined by Saltelli et al. (2008), we precede the sensitivity analysis with uncertainty analysis to obtain output distributions based on input distributions. For the AG-ADAPT model, five inputs were treated as uncertain: decision rule, decision uncertainty (a purely random variable encapsulating unknown factors), adaptation strategy, a parameter for calculating NDVI for the wheat season (NDVI_JFMA), and a parameter for calculating NDVI for rice season (NDVI_ON). We performed a sensitivity analysis experiment to understand which of the five inputs has the maximum effect on the variability of adopting a given strategy by the agents. Table 3 shows the distributions of the Fig.