 (2000) 229 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 272 Medicinal uses of Corchorus fascicularis Plant, leaf of bankusta (Corchorus fascicularis ) and seed have glucosides, corchorin, bitter principle, corchortin which are used as anthelmintic, restorative, laxative, stimulant, tonic, aphrodisiac, stomach troubles, skin diseases, scabies, tumours. Parabia et al. (2000) 273 Corchorus capsularis- medicinal uses Fruit, seed, and leaf of singhin (Cochorus capsularis) contain oil, oleic and lonoleic acid, glucoside, corchorin, corchoritin are used for purgatives, laxatives, carminatives, refrigerant, diuretic, chronic cystitis, gonorrhoea, dysuria, hepatic and intestinal colic, gastric catarrh, dysentery, to increase appetite. Parabia et al. (2000) 274 Cissus quandrangularis syn.Vitis quandragularis medicinal uses Leaf of hadojodi (Cissus quandrangularis) is used as alterative and also used for fractures of bones, muscular pain, ulcers and wounds. Parabia et al. (2000) 275 Medical uses of Coptis teeta Mamiran (Coptis teeta) contains berberine which is used to increase appetite, restores digestive powers and removes flatulence and visceral obstructions, jaundice, debility, convalescence after fevers, debilitating diseases, atonic dyspepsia, mild forms of intermittent fevers, catarhal and rheumatic conjunctivitis. Parabia et al. (2000) 276 Medicinal properties of silk cotton tree Almost all primary parts of simul (Bombax mamabaricum) are medicinally important. Seed contains non- drying oil and used as astringent, styptic.Tap root acts as demulcent, slightly diuretic, aphrodisiac, emetic and cures prolapse of uterus/vagina, aprodisiac is given in impotency. Flower cures menorrhoea, prickle and pimples. Parabia et al. (2000) 277 Medicinal uses of coffee indica and C. arabica Seeds of coffee (Coffee arabica) contain alkaloid caffein, trogonelline, leaf and fruit contain adenine, xanthine, hypoxanthine, guanine, volatile oil, wax and are used in poisoning, chronic diarrhoea, medicine for controlling fever, depression. Parabia et al. (2000) 278 Medicinal uses of Cocculus hirsutus Root, leaf juice of jamtikibel (Cocculus hirsutus) contain trilobine, isotrilobine, coclaurine, magnoflorine and used as refrigerant, laxative, sudorific, alterative, chronic rheumatism,venereal diseases, gonorrhoea, eczema, impetigo. Parabia et al. (2000) 230 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 95 Double seeddriller for garlic: 'Dabaliyu' Garlic is sown at a very narrow distance of about 4.5' in Junagadh district of Saurashtra. By using ordinary 'Santi' it is not possible to sow at such close distance because of its broad sowing coulters. 'Santi' can sow at a minimum of 9' distance between the two rows. Usually farmers sow garlic in rows first by keeping 9' distance between the 2 row and then again sowing between the previously sown rows of garlic to get the crop at 4.