 1973 Second reorganization of ICAR with the establishment of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) to provide greater 6 autonomy to ICAR, and Regional Committees to take care of regional needs, and creation of Agricultural Research Services (ARS) and Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB). 1974 Norms and Accreditation Committee (NAC) replaced Standing Committee on Agricultural Education. 1988 G.V.K. Rao Committee recommendations to revamp the functioning of ICAR including its role in Agricultural Education. 1995 Agricultural Human Resource Development (AHRD) project, with World Bank Support, launched (ended in 2001). 1996 Accreditation Board established replacing NAC. 2007 IV Deans Committee revised UG course curricula and syllabi, and norms, standards and academic regulation. 2009 National Core Group revised PG (Master’s and PhD) course curricula and syllabi and the common academic regulations. 1.1. 2. Agricultural Education - Present Setup Establishment of Post Graduate School at IARI in 1958 was a landmark step that heralded establishment of agricultural universities in India. Today, we have a net work of 53 State Agricultural Universities (SAUs, including 16 specialized Veterinary and Animal Sciences and Horticulture and Forestry Sciences Universities), one Central Agricultural University (CAU), five Institutes having Deemed-to-be-Universities (DUs) status (four of them are ICAR Institutes: IARI, New Delhi; IVRI, Izatnagar; NDRI, Karnal and CIFE, Mumbai and, the fifth Allahabad Agricultural Institute, Allahabad) and four Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture faculty (BHU, Varanasi; AMU, Aligarh; Vishwa Bharti, Shantiniketan and Nagaland University, Medziphema). The universities are modeled on US land grant university pattern with integration of education, research and extension education and, have contributed a great deal in propelling agricultural growth in the country. With about 265 constituent colleges having about 35,000 student- intake capacity, the AUs impart education in 11 major disciplines at undergraduate and about 95 subjects at post-graduate level. In higher agricultural education, about 55% students are from rural back ground and, on an average, 36% are the girl students. Besides, the IIT, Kharagpur imparts education in the field of Agricultural Engineering, and about 100 privately owned colleges, majority of them affiliated to general universities while some, particularly in the States of Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh, affiliated to SAUs, impart higher agricultural education to over 10000 students annually. 1.1.2.