 Due to rain-fed nature, most of the homestead ponds in the eastern and north eastern states and the ponds in hilly terrain hold water for a limited period of the year, which limits productivity and restricts their effective utilization. But these seasonal ponds contribute significantly to rural livelihood and nutritional security. Grow-out technologies have been developed for several indigenous minor carps and barbs which adapt well to such shallow ponds and grow better in high density. The smaller market size and higher consumer preference of these species yield farmer better revenue compared to the short-term major carp farming in these ponds. The Institutes are also working to promote fish seed rearing activities in these ponds for earning more revenue during the short period. The technology of integrated fish farming has been important advocacy of ICAR which is in line with the Gandhian principle of sustainable agriculture development. The ICAR through its Institutes spread across the country has developed several models of such integrated farming after screening compatible and suitable components and examining their production efficiency. Such a farming system helps in better resource use efficiency through energy recycling, reduces risk through crop diversification and maximizes production. Integrated models of farming fish with varieties of compatible components such as livestock (poultry, dairy, piggery) and high- valued horticulture crops have been developed, extensively demonstrated in the farmers’ fields and popularized in almost all the states. Low land and deep-water rice ecology form important resources particularly in the north-eastern states for fish production. The rice-fish farming technology developed for such an ecosystem not only ensures higher rice production from the unit area but also yields fish up to 1.0 t/ha along with a sizeable amount of seasonal vegetables for home consumption. The development of feed technology over the years has complemented the growth of the aquaculture sector in the county. Research Institutes of ICAR have worked for the screening of the various locally-available feed ingredients and the development of balanced feed for the livestock and fish. While the concept of using feed for higher fish growth has been increasingly popularized, sinking and floating pelleted feed with balanced nutrition have been developed for Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 54 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR different fish species/groups that have increased the production efficiency of resources. More and more feed mills are established day by day to support expanding aquaculture in the country. Studies have revealed that a certain portion of crop loss occurs due to disease in the fish pond which often goes unnoticed unless there is a severe outbreak. But in recent years, disease surveillance has been increased in agriculture including fish farming.