 In the scientific matters, the 8 Deputy Director Generals assist the Director General (https://icar.org.in/ content/administration). 4.7.4. Agri-Innovate: A Commercial Wing of ICAR Agri-innovate India Ltd. (AgIn) was incorporated on October 19, 2011 as ‘for profit’ company of DARE under the Companies Act, 1956Stimulating and fostering innovations in agriculture and building ‘a world of Innovative public private partnerships’ are twin goals of Agri-Innovate and serve as an interface between ICAR and various stakeholders of agricultural sectors including farmers; public & private sector; R&D organizations etc. The company also promote sustainable technologies from the NARES for the overall development of agribusiness sector. 4.7.5. Independent Recruitment Agency (ASRB) Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB) was established during the year 1973 based on the recommendations of the Gajendragadkar Committee. Major activities of ASRB are the recruitment of entry level scientists through Agriculture Research Services (ARS) and recruitment to posts in the combined cadres of Administrative Officers/Finance & Accounts Officers and Research Management Positions for ICAR apart from advising the Council on personnel matters, including promotion; disciplinary matters, etc. The ASRB was delinked from ICAR during 2018 and currently it works under DARE, Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India. 4.7.6. Brand ICAR ICAR started reaching the common man through brand ICAR initiative by media management, in order to showcase its stupendous efforts and contribution. The branding attributes give the product disposition and voice position the attention of stakeholders’ mind, and give them the feel-good experience whenever they come in contact with the brand ICAR. The common guidelines for promoting, Brand ICAR’ has been formulated for Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 423 implementation by all the ICAR institutes uniformly. Communication nodes like visiting cards, ID cards, letter heads, email signatures, etc. have been identified as effective at individual level, while websites, media activities, products developed, print and social media presence, etc. have been identified as effective at institute and organization level. Besides aforementioned means, third party involving instruments like technology licenses, incubates, start-ups, etc. help enhance the brand of the ICAR. 5. Leadership Development: Focus and Strategies The development of leadership has become essential for the NARES due to dynamic challenges, expectations from society and stakeholders, and enhanced research competition from the private sector across the globe. In the present context, there is a serious concern for effective leadership at different levels of hierarchy. 5.1.