 ï Training has greater significance for the public Organization and Departments, as they deal with public at large. The policies they make influence the quality of lives of the citizens and the quality of their service delivery impacts the citizen satisfaction. The ethics, ethos and behaviours of the Government officers decide the brand image of the Government. Therefore, it is mandatory for the public Organizations to be continuously efficient and effective through regular training of the human resources. ï When a person joins an organization, he/she is raw and not familiar with the relevant Acts, Rules, Regulations and the various financial/administrative/technical codes to be followed in their work, even about the work culture and environment of the Organization. They need to be provided with the appropriate knowledge, skills and behaviours by way of Induction and Orientation Training. Appropriate training is always required whenever there is change in the role, responsibilities and organizational position so that he/she can take up the new challenges in short period of time. Though the importance of training has been long realized by the private sector but public Organizations are yet to institutionalize training in a focused manner. The following are the commonly observed gaps in training in Government sector (DoPT, 2016) ï Training programmes are not always designed based on systematically identified training needs. ï Training programmes are many times generic and not aimed to develop specific competencies. ï Using adult learning techniques in training programmes is not by design but incidental. ï Target group for a training programme is not properly identified and nominated. The nomination process does not always guarantee that right persons are nominated for right training. Many a time, the employees that are less occupied with work are sent for 3 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) training and the persons with key responsibilities and work are not spared for training by the HoDs. ï Many a time, training is not given for the lower level and gross-root level employees and no mapping of training needs is carried out at those levels. ï Training programmes are considered by many trainees as respite from their regular work and not regarded as learning events. ï There are no proper practices of evaluation of training interventions carried out. ï Identification of training needs in behavioural and managerial competencies and conducting appropriate training programmes in these areas is uncommon in Government. The Govt. of India perceived the importance of training since beginning and created a separate Ministry/Department (DoPT). Later, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research has realized to lay more emphasis and greater focus on Training and Capacity Building of its employees since 2014.