 8, areas with slower transitions from meteorological to agricultural drought may indicate regions with substantial groundwater reserves or efficient irrigation systems. These factors highlight the importance of considering local water management practices and environmental con- ditions in drought studies, which can inform better agricultural planning and drought mitigation strategies. The spatial distributions of monthly, seasonal and annual drought for the driest (2003) and the wettest (2020) years are shown in Fig. 9 and Fig. 10 respectively. In the case of the driest year i.e. in 2003, May is identified as the driest month by all the four indices (Fig. 9a, d, g and j). The spatially averaged SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI values for this driest month of May in 2003 are −1.48, −1.25, −2.14 and −1.72 respectively. The driest season is April to June (AMJ) for 2003 (Fig. 9b, e, h and k) and the spatially averaged SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI values are −1.25, −1.16, −1.13 and −1.42 respectively. The figures show that monthly droughts are more intense followed by seasonal and annual droughts i.e. short term droughts are more intense than long term droughts. Different months are identified as the wettest months of the driest year 2003 by the four indices such as October by SSMI and ESSMI; March by SPI and July by SPEI. The wettest seasons of the driest year 2003 are July to September (JAS), January to February (JFM), and October to December (OND), as shown by SSMI and ESSMI; SPI and SPEI respectively. This discrepancy can be attributed to the fact that SM-based indices (SSMI and ESSMI) exhibit a time lag in reflecting wet conditions since they consider the slower response of SM to seasonal variations mainly influenced by precipitation. Consequently, they might identify October and JAS as the wettest month and season respectively reflecting the cumulative effects of slowly changing SM leading from wettest month (March) and season (JFM) as identified by SPI. The meteorological indices (SPI and SPEI) are more sensitive to changes in precipitation patterns and consequent variability of evapotranspiration. This sensi- tivity can be a probable cause of SPI identifying March and SPEI iden- tifying July as the wettest months, as they respond more quickly to meteorological fluctuations compared to the SM-based indices. These variations highlight the complementary insights provided by different indices and the importance of considering their specific characteristics when interpreting drought and wetness patterns. From Fig. 9, it also has been observed that the ESSMI is more prone to overestimate the wetness i.e. less sensitive to dryness while compared to the other three indices for all the temporal scales. The ESSMI shows higher values indicating only moderate and no extreme drought conditions contrasting the observa- tions from remaining indices for all the three temporal scale analyses in the year 2003. A similar analysis has been done for the wettest year i.e.