 Keywords: Cassia tora, flower extract, diarrhoea in goats, sturdiness Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of bamboo leaf juice to control diarrhoea of animals Due to diarrhoea disease the appetite of small kids get reduced and they become weak very shortly. Farmers of North Solapur region of Solapur district when observe that kids of animals are suffering from diarrhoea then they start to give bamboo leaf juice. This juice controls the diarrhoea problem. Keywords: bamboo leaf juice, diarrhoea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of gulwel juice to control diarrhoea in animals Farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district give small dose of gulwel juice when the kids of Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi  animals suffer from diarrhoea. Keywords: gulwel, diarrhoea Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of wood apple fruit to control diarrhoea in animals Farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district use the epicarp of wood apple to feed the animal suffering from diarrhoea. Keywords: wood apple fruit, diarrhoea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of tamarind fruit juice for the control of diarrhoea in animals When animal suffers from diarrhoea, the farmers of North Solapur region of Solapur district give fruit juice of tamarind with water to animals. Diarrhoea is controlled with this treatment. Keywords: tamarind, diarrhoea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri,. Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of a mixture of chalk powder, kattha and ginger for controlling diarrhoea in animals If an animal is suffering from diarrhoea then farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district prepare a mixture of chalk powder, kattha and ginger. This mixture is fed to the animal orally. By this treatment diarrhoea can be kept under control totally or atleast partially. Keywords: chalk powder, kattha, ginger, diarrhoea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Feeding edible oil with camphor to animal for curing diarrhoea Diarrhoea in animals can be cured easily by supplying them edible oil with camphor at the time of diarrhoea. Keywords: edible oil, camphor, diarrhoea Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2552 Control of diarrhoea in animals by using mixture of jamun, bhang and ajwain Diarrhoea is common in animals and some times, if not controlled or cured in time, animals die also. Farmers of Badala area of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir prepare a mixture using bark of jamun (Syzygium cuminii) tree, Agriculbhang (Cannabis sativa) and ajwain.