 Citation analysis of publication during Overview icar annual report 2022-23 11 2007-2020 showed increase in that total number of publications, total citations, average citation per paper, impact factor per paper, number of papers in journals with impact factor>4. ASRB-Online Application and Scorecard Information System (ASRB-OASIS) application (http://www.asrb.org.in/) was developed for inviting online applications for the RMP positions and Non-RMP positions. Academic Management System (AMS), a web-based application, aimed at automating administrative and academic activities of agricultural universities was adopted in 56 universities. ICAR carried out research activities focusing on farm women nutrition, livelihood enhancement, technological empowerment, drudgery reduction and entrepreneurship development. In rural areas the participation of women (6yr+age) in overall agriculture, crop sector and livestock sector were 22.4, 13.3 and 10.7% and their contribution were 30.8, 27.2 and 45.8%, respectively. The survey conducted to understand the knowledge level of farm women on nutritional aspects indicated that nutritional awareness among farm women increased to 60% as compared to the pre-project status of 15.5%. A pan-India nutri-smart village project was designed for promoting nutritional awareness, education and behavioural change in rural areas involving farm women and school children through local recipes to overcome malnutrition, implementing nutrition sensitive agriculture through homestead agriculture and nutri-gardens. Twenty-eight capacity building programmes were organized for potential women entrepreneurs in the identified areas which benefitted 902 rural women. Basic and Strategic Research: Genome editing technology (CRISPR-Cas9) was used to create loss of function mutants of the drought and salt tolerance (DST) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor, in rice cultivar MTU 1010. DST gene mutants showed >25% increase in grain yield under normal conditions due to increase in reproductive tillers per plant and grain number per panicle. Phenotypic variance of 436 rice accessions from the sequenced panel of 3,000 rice genome accessions was assessed at multiple locations to identify superior donors and alleles for spikelet fertility and low grain chalkiness under thermal stress. Three rice accessions with consistently high spikelet fertility under high temperature, seven accessions with low chalk and eight accessions with cold tolerance were identified. A panel of 150 diverse accessions from the 3K rice genome panel of IRRI was assembled and extensively phenotyped in the Phenomics Facility under well-watered (100% FC) and limited water (60% FC) conditions to identify QTLs for subcomponent traits of WUE. Fine mapping and marker-assisted breeding for alternative dwarfing genes Rht14 and Rht18 was done to develop semi-dwarf wheat genotype suitable for conservation agriculture.