 the traits which are expected by the employers in today’s competitive business scenario. Therefore, the agricultural graduates on completion of their studies must be well-equipped to face the challenges posed by the emerging globalized environment. They must possess the required professional capabilities and skill-set to deal with the concerns of sustainable development of climate-resilient agriculture in all its aspects with a focus on addressing the issues, especially those confronting the farmers (Kiresur, 2017). Despite significant contributions made by the ICAR and AUs towards human resource development for the benefit of agricultural sector, the existing Indian higher agricultural education is fraught with challenges of low access, lack of required quality standards, lack of adequate financial support, gender inequality, academic inbreeding, lack of faculty competence in cutting-edge areas, etc. Since SAUs are established through the respective State Legislature Acts with major financial support from them, the administrative and policy control primarily rests with the State Govts. It has been observed that inadequate state funding, reduced faculty strength, inadequate faculty development programmes, lack of modern infrastructure for education and research, etc. has adversely affected the pace and quality of technology generation and TANUVAS Students at WSU, USA Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 57 human resource development in many of the SAUs. Most of the teachers spend less than 50% of their time for teaching and research. Number of hours that teachers spend with the students is also required to be increased, in order to help them to impart knowledge to the students. Addressing the shortage of faculty in the university can also help in this regard. Majority of the students are not fully satisfied with the present fee structure in the universities. Rationalizing fee structure or providing assistantships for the eligible candidates would encourage quality candidates, particularly those from rural background, to study without any constraints (Kiresur, 2017). Establishment of new SAUs and new faculties/colleges without providing necessary financial and faculty support has further escalated the problem. According to the recently published Dr. R.S. Paroda Committee Report (2019), the recent mushrooming of private colleges and universities is inconsistent with the goals and objectives set for present day agricultural education. These institutions entice academically mediocre students for admissions into various courses and charge them exorbitantly high fee, which is un-proportional to the infrastructural facilities and quality of education they offer.