 A group of 32 farmers from Farmers Welfare and Agricultural Development Block, District Teekamgadh (MP) visited the University under the programme of “Rajya Ke Bahar Krishak Bhraman” under the scheme “Mukhyamantri Khet Theerth Yojna” of M.P. State Givernment on 20th March 2017. The main objective behind this scheme is empowerment and welfare of farmers by making them aware about new farming techniques. The exposure to new agricultural technologies encourages them to adopt improved farming techniques. The farmers were exposed to different practices of crop and vegetable production, benefits of organic farming and different agricultural practices through an intensive visit to university agricultural and vegetable farm. 3. A group of 10 farmers from Farmers Welfare and Agricultural Development Block, Kuravai, District Vidisha (MP) accompanied with Sri S. N. Rajput, Rural Agriculture Extension Officer visited the University under “Rajya Ke Bahar Krishak Bhraman” program of “Mukhyamantri Khet Theerth Yojna” on 25th March, 2017. The farmers were appraised about different aspects of crop and vegetable production, benefits of organic farming and scientific agricultural practices being followed at university agricultural and vegetable farm. 4. A team of 16 farmers from State Agricultural School, District Banda (U.P.) paid a visit to the University, sponsored by “ATMA” on 12th June 2017. The farmers visited vegetable and agricultural farm area of the university and discussed about the latest developments related to seed production, agronomic practices of crop and vegetable production, benefits of organic farming, agricultural implements and other agricultural practices. 7.3 Front line demonstrations Front-Line Demonstration (FLD) is the new concept of field demonstration evolved by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with the inception of the Technology Mission on Oilseed Crops during mid-eighties. The main objective of FLDs is to demonstrate newly released crop production and protection technologies and its management practices in the farmers’ field under different agro- Group of farmers sponsored by ATMA (A) and M.P. State Government (B) on exposure visits to the University 16 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY climatic regions and farming situations. While demonstrating the technologies in the farmers’ field, the scientists study the factors contributing higher crop production, field constrains of production and thereby generate production data and feedback information. In order to increase potential yield of mustard- rapeseed in the Bundelkhand region, the University and ICAR-Directorate of Rapeseed- Mustard Research, Sewar, Bharatpur, entered into a Memorandum of Understanding for the assessment and transfer of improved production technology of rapeseed-mustard through Frontline Demonstrations in the region. Forty FLDs were conducted using five improved varieties of Rapeseed-Mustard i.e.