  There is increase in the outreach programs by KVKs from 2012-13 to 2019-20 in num- ber of on farm trials by 51%, frontlines demos by 61%, farmers trained by 16% and extension personnel trained by 35%. Over a period of time, the KVKs have emerged as an instrument of change in the technological adoptions across the production systems and largely impacting the farmers’ income and profitability. KVKs have proved to be a major district level innovative institution catering the technological needs of the small and marginal farmers and of the progressive farmers to provide the technological options at the cutting-edge level. It has made very positive and visible impacts in the far flung, tribal, hilly and mountainous areas too. The KVKs have worked in 112 Aspirational Districts in convergence mode with other departments. KVKs have played crucial role in providing extension services to farmers which has contributed in increased pulses production in the country. They promoted improved varieties of crops related to stress tolerant, drought tolerant and facilitated in identification of indigenous varieties practiced by the farmers. They have played an important role in promoting Climate Smart Villages and promoted ecosystem-based farm practices, like organic farming, IFS, crop residue management and bio-agents. KVK has trained farmers and extension functionaries on Skill enhancement and provided seed and planting materials. Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 353 The system so credibly established needs to be supported in terms of requisite manpower and financial provisions. Various Ministries and Development departments are proposing programmatic linkages with the KVK System for mutual advantages; these very moves indicate the strong urge to strengthen the KVK system further. The ICT and Social Media applications are systematically promoted by the KVK system, as in the present and future, the role of social media would play an important role. This is crucial step towards promoting digital agriculture as well as achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in a systematic manner. Various internet applications and media packages need to be developed. Linkages with the Common Service Centres are a welcome step in this direction. There have been various initiatives taken up by KVKs for capacity building of women which includes Nutri-Sensitive Agricultural Resources & Innovations (NARI) project initiated in 2017-18 by KVKs to sensitize farm women and aanganwadi workers to combat malnutrition. Other than this, the women participation to the tune of 25-30 % is ensured in programmes conducted by KVKs. The KVKs are very much focused on the IFS approach and integrated delivery of the technology transfer. Therefore, the agriculture and allied sector FLDs and OFTs should be strengthened. Along with the strong backward technological linkages, there is an urgent need for looking into the income and business orientation to the activities.