 After deep ploughing the residues of weeds are collected and burnt. Then broadcasting of rajgira seed or sowing of rajgira as sole crop is done in the heavily infested area. It is thought that the exudation from roots of rajgira checks its growth. Keywords: doob, deep ploughing, rajgira Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2334 Control of congress grass weed by application of kerosene oil At flowering stage of congress weed, farmers of Udhampur district of Jammu Kashmir spray kerosene oil on it. As a result, it is completely dried. However, this practice is to be supplemented/ integrated with other weed control measures for complete measure. Keywords: congress grass weed, kerosene oil Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of  ITK, 2002. Sher- EKashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2363 Management of bio-physical resources This method of natural farming is followed in the high hills (above 2500m) of Arunachal Pradesh where the Buddist Manpas practise settled subsistence hoe farming without constructing any terrace for agricultural crops. Instead, the entire natural slopes of the hills are used for taking up both kharif and rabi crops. Sheep dropping and oak (Alnus nepalensis) leaves serve as manure in kharif season, while human waste and litter are sprayed in barely field during rabi season. The system of crop production of maize and finger millet are practiced to maintain soil health and to prevent the soil from the nutrient loss. Minimum tillage is done with hoe only and inter and mixed cropping of vegetables, beans, pulses, roots and tubers are followed at a regular basis to maintain soil fertility for sustainable farming. Keywords: natural farming, Buddist Manpas, hoe farming, sheep dropping, oak, human, waste, litter, maize, finger millet, minimum tillage, beans, pulses, roots, tubers Dr N. Prakash, Dr P. P. Pal, Dr P. Sundrambal, Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari, Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Barapani (Meghalaya)- 793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J. Hill Farmg 12 (1&2): 134-135(1999) 2303 Determination of appropriate harvesting time of cereal crops For determining the time of harvest, farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district bite randomly selected grains from a field for judging the proper harvesting time of cereal crops. Harvest at proper stage of crop has prime importance for achieving good quality and optimum yields. Some grains of the cereal crops are selected randomly and bitten to assess the hardening of the grains. If the grains attain proper hardening, they are ready for harvest.