 Sea weed products also reduced methane emission by almost 15%. Tree leaves and plant secondary metabolites: Many plant secondary metabolites (PSMs) such as tannins, saponin and essential oils have anti-methanogenic property (Bhatta et al. 2015, 2016). Tree leaves such as Moringa leaves, Neem leaves, Jack leaves and organic acids have shown promising results in reducing enteric methane. These interventions have reduced methane emission by 10-15% in growing and lactating animals. Ionophores in the dairy ration reduce methane emission in heifers and nitrous oxide emission from dung of dairy animals. Alternate H2 sinks: Use of salts containing sulphur is also capable of reducing methane emission from dairy animals to the tune of 12-15%. 5.2.6. Feed technology For efficient use of feed resources, technologies such as fodder block, pellet making, Indian Agriculture after Independence 154 extrusion, complete feed block (total mixed ration) have been developed at ICAR institutes and adopted by feed industries. These technologies have helped in improved nutrient utilisation besides aiding in ease of transportation and storage. For better protein and fat utilisation in rumen of dairy animals, bypass nutrient technologies have been developed. Technologies of formaldehyde treatment of oil cakes to improve bypass protein value and preparation of bypass fat with vegetable oil and calcium hydroxide have been adopted by the feed industries. Use of exogenous enzymes and vitamins in animal feed: Several enzymes like phytase, cellulase, proteinase, etc. are being used to obtain more animal produce at cheaper cost. Supplementation of vitamin E can be useful against oxidative stress in periparturient dairy cows. Utilization of phytate phosphorus was increased in chicken gut through supplementation of microbial phytase (500 FYT kg-1) or with surfeit levels of vitamin D3 (2400 to 3600 ICU kg-1). Area specific mineral mixture (ASMM) for dairy animals: ASMM technology is available for the formulation of mineral mixtures as per the recommendations of BIS for different species i.e., cattle, buffalo and goat to supplement major and trace minerals such as Ca, P, Mg, Fe, Zn, Mn, I and Co, etc. There are two types of formulations of mineral mixture, one is with salt and the other is without salt, can be mixed in the concentrate mixture @ 2 kg/100 kg (without salt) and @ 3 kg/100 kg (with salt). It can also be supplemented @ 50 g/day/ adult animal mixed in feed or in water. Anionic mineral mixture developed at NDRI Karnal given to pregnant cows/buffaloes at least 3 weeks before parturition helped in meeting the increased demand of Ca and maintaining blood Ca. Vitamin E is additionally added to alleviate oxidative stress in periparturient dairy cows. Thus, supplementation of this special kind mineral mixture is effective for the prevention of hypocalcemia, minimizing the occurrence of milk fever and other metabolic disorders.