 Further, molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation studies suggested that emetine may bind to the cap-binding pocket of eIF4E, in a similar conformation as m7-GTP binds. In summary, a potent antiviral efficacy against SARS-CoV-2 in the cell culture, ability to protect chicken embryos against lethal IBV infection, together with molecular docking and molecular dynamics simulation studies suggested that emetine could be repurposed to treat COVID-19. Detection of group-specific antibodies against VP7 protein of BTV: A colloidal gold nanoparticle-based lateral flow immunochromatography assay (LFIA) was developed to detect the group-specific antibodies to BTV in serum samples and compared with commercial competitive-ELISA (c-ELISA) kit using samples from sheep, goats, cattle, and camel segregated as positive and negative by the reference c-ELISA. The relative diagnostic sensitivity (DSn) of 95.2% with 91.6–97.6 (95%)) confidence interval and relative diagnostic specificity (DSp) of 99.6% with 97.8–100 (95%) confidence interval were obtained for the optimized LFIA. The agreement between the LFIA and the c-ELISA was excellent as indicated by the kappa coefficient value with 95% confidence interval. The recombinant protein G based LFIA is a sensitive, specific, rapid, one-step test that can be used in the field or poorly equipped laboratories for serological diagnosis and sero-surveillance of bluetongue in multiple susceptible species. Therapeutics Canine parvovirus enteritis: Therapeutic efficacy of a chicken egg yolk based immunoglobulin, IgY-P @ 410 IU/kg bwt, was evaluated in naturally CPV-infected dogs. The clinical score and fecal virus load decreased remarkably over the treatment period of 7 days. It was concluded that anti-CPV IgY-P serves as a promising therapeutic for the management of CPVE dogs where no specific treatment is available. Mobile Apps launched IVRI-Biosecurity and Biosafety (Jaiv Suraksha) Mobile app: This app is intended to impart knowledge and skills to livestock and poultry farmers, field Blocking ELISA kit developed for detection of foot-and-mouth disease LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 94 associated with respiratory diseases, pharyngitis, enlarged lymph nodes, nasal discharge, coughing, fever, lack of appetite and poor performance. EHV-2 is also associated with kerato-conjunctivitis and EHV5 with equine multi- nodular pulmonary fibrosis syndrome. Taqman probe- based real-time PCR assay was developed and used to detect the occurrence of EHV-2 and EHV-5 in young horses. On testing of DNA samples isolated from swabs, 59 (67.04%) were positive for EHV-2, 42 (47.72%) for EHV-5 and 38 (43.18%) were positive for both EHV-2 and EHV-5 for the first time in India. Novel genomic constellations of Streptococcus equi: Streptococcus equi is the causative agent of strangles.