 Sharon Aravind*, Nisthar E, V Srinivasan, K Kandiannan and K Nirmal Babu Technology Second generation rhizomes of ginger micro-rhizomes Field evaluation of micro-rhizome derived plantlets of ginger Yield obtained from single micro-rhizome Micro-rhizomes of turmeric Micro-rhizomes of ginger Ginger plants derived from micro- rhizomes in grow bags July–August 2023 25 Production of micro-rhizomes of ginger variety IISR Varada Germination of rhizome buds, multiple shoot formation, established culture View of the established cultures of turmeric variety Varna its stage are the most important factors to be considered for establishing contamination free cultures with good in vitro response. The sprouted rhizome buds (2 cm in length) of ginger and turmeric served as explants for micro-rhizome production. y Sufficient quantities of disease-free rhizomes of ginger and turmeric developed by ICAR-IISR and KAU (Kerala Agriculture University) were collected. y The rhizome bits were planted in trays containing 4-5 inches of sand and kept in greenhouse under protected conditions and periodically moistened to ensure sprouting of rhizomes. y Newly sprouted buds were selected and used as a source of explant for the culture. y Sprouted buds excised from rhizomes have to be washed well with tap water to remove soil and other dust particles adhering to it, then treated with copper oxychloride and Tween 20 for 30 minutes and washed again. y The external skin and remnant scale leaves were removed from the rhizomes with a knife. y Sprouted buds along with attached portion of rhizome were cut, removed and treated with 0.1% Mercuric chloride (HgCl2) for 3 minutes and washed with sterile distilled water 3-4 times. y These explants were transferred to an aseptic environment in the laminar air flow chamber and treated with 0.1% HgCl2 for 3 minutes and washed thoroughly with sterile distilled water to remove traces of HgCl2. y These rhizome bits with viable buds were inoculated onto culture initiation medium (MS medium without growth regulators). In vitro multiplication y After 30 days, established cultures were used for further multiplication. y Cultures were inoculated onto multiplication media containing MS + BA (3 mg/L) + NAA (0.1 mg/L). Cultures were incubated at a temperature of 25°C and a photoperiod of 16 h light and 8 h darkness. y After 30-40 days, these cultures were sub-cultured onto fresh media (MS + BA (3 mg/L) + NAA (0.1 mg/L). y Further it was sub-cultured 3-4 times at an interval of 30-40 days. Micro-rhizome induction y Explants were taken from three-month-old contamination free in vitro cultures. y Roots as well as top part of the stem were trimmed off using sterile surgical blades and explants of about 2 cm were collected. y These explants were inoculated in micro-rhizome induction medium containing MS with BA (3 mg/L) + NAA (1 mg/L) and 9% sucrose. y A photoperiod of 16 h light and 8 h darkness was provided.