1%) or chlorpyriphos (0.1%) effectively controlled black fly, leaf miner, mealybug, leaf folder and lemon butterfly in citrus. Soil drenching and spraying of metalaxyal (0.2%) followed by Bordeaux pasting was effective in checking the spread of Phytophthora root rot in Kinnow mandarins. Dry root rot in sweet orange was effectively controlled with two applications of hexaconazole (0.4%) and carbendazim (0.2%) at monthly interval. Pruning followed by spraying of streptocycline (100 ppm) and 4 sprays of copper oxychloride (0.3%) at monthly intervals recommended for the control of canker in acid lime. Gummosis and fruit rot in sweet orange was effectively controlled by phosetyl (0.2%). Management of Nagpur mandarin decline in central India has been taken seriously. More invincible response of various treatments on growth and yield performance of treated declining orchard became visibly apparent and plants started looking healthier and productive to preceding years. The management of causal factors to citrus decline appeared to be purely site-specific. GUAVA Micropropagation through shoot bud culture has been standardized and September– October being the best responsive period. Guava Allahabad Safeda at Sabour, Allahabad Surkha at Udaipur and Surkhee, Anakapalli, Chakaiya, Mahmoodnagar and G 27 at Rewa were promising. Chittidar produced maximum fruit yield (171.93 kg/plant) which was superior to most of the cultivars. In planting system-cum high-density trial, maximum yield was recorded in double-hedge row system as compared to minimum in square system at Sabour, Rewa and Udaipur. Similarly, maximum winter season yield may be obtained through pruning of top three-fourths current shoots in guava Sardar. Maximum yield of 40.41 kg/plant was achieved in a plant spacing of 3 m × 6 m (3 years) after planting. Control of guava wilt was achieved with biocontrol agents, viz. Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma sp. and Penicillium citrinum. Aspergillus niger was found more aggressive pathogen and its spread was very fast. Application of Aspergillus niger enriched FYM @ 0.01% and incubated for 10 days were applied in pits before planting was found to save newly-planted plants.Its application (FYM enriched with A. niger) @ 10 kg/plant in established plantation before rain during July is recommended to control the disease as a regular practice. GRAPE Seventeen new accessions were added to grape germplasm making to a total 363 accessions including indigenous as well as exotic cultivars. A 17-3, a white seedless accession, was found promising. Use of rootstock for sustainable grape production under adverse situation has been initiated. The decline in yield due to the problems associated with soil and water salinity, chlorides in irrigation water and excess levels of sodium and free lime in soil and drought in and around Maharashtra state alerted the situation.