 Rapid advancement of science and technology of measurement techniques makes the existing equipment obsolete more quickly than expected and leads to reduced life cycle and frequent replacement of the equipment. Frequent replacements require greater investment on purchase of equipment which further supports the idea of effective sharing of scientific equipment. A well-articulated uniform scientific equipment policy, pan ICAR, for use, replacement and audit of costly equipment is an important requirement. This will contain guidelines for audit of scientific equipment resources and developing the concept of scientific equipment life cycle as well as all other aspects of scientific equipment procurement and management. \e ee HDS ICAR CONSTITUTION OF THE COMMITTEE Son (DARE) & Director General (ICAR), vide office order F. No. IPTM/ 4-1/2017-Policy (Pt.) dated 31 May, 2017, constituted the following Committee to audit scientific equipment resources and developing the concept of scientific equipment life cycle as well as scientific equipment policy: Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering) Chairman Asstt. Director General (Seeds) Member Asstt. Director General (Marine Fisheries) Member Asstt. Director General (PE) Member Asstt. Director General (TC) Member Asstt. Director General (IP&TM) Member Director (Finance) Member Director, CIPHET, Ludhiana Member Director, CIAE, Bhopal Member Head of Division, Agricultural Engineering Member Secretary IARI, New Delhi SCIENTIFIC yy EQUIPMENT POLICY UID IFAT ICAR AUDIT OF EXISTING SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT RESOURCES AN part of ground work, the Committee collected information from selected science and technology institutes like IIT-Kharagpur; CSIR-CEERI, Pilani; CSIR-NPL, New Delhi; CSIR-CSIO, Chandigarh and others about their current policy and practice regarding scientific equipment management. Existing use pattern of scientific equipment and their management with respect to sharing, purchase and maintenance and replacement in different scientific organizations were thoroughly scrutinized and collated. Open Top Chamber facility for Climate Change Research (ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad) The Committee had an intensive discussion in its first meeting and decided to seek information related to the list of equipment and facility available in the respective Institutes, the mode of usage and if there are any standard procedures followed for sharing with other researchers in the Institute or across other Institutes of ICAR. A list of information that were asked from the Directors of ICAR Institutes included the following: a. A list of scientific equipment available in ICAR Institutes that cost higher than 5 million. HDT ICAR SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY The policy in place for auditing and monitoring repair and maintenance and life cycle of scientific equipment. If a committee is in place for scientific equipment policy decisions, auditing and life cycle of scientific equipment.