 1583 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1954 Use of mustard vegetable extract to bring cow in heat Volume 2, page 328 Mustard Refer to ITK Code No. 750 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1955 Use of fried grains of lentil and salt for onset of heat in buffalo Volume 2, page 329 Lentil Assamese: masurmoha; Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: masur, masser, masuri; Kannada: massur, chanangi; Telugu: misurrpappu, chirisanagalu. Lentil Lens culinaris Medic. It is mostly used as a dal. The presence of trypsin-inhibitor in lentil has been reported. A small, erect, softly pubescent herb, 15-75 cm high with compound leaves and white, rose, red or violet flowers borne solitarily or in 2—4 flowered racemes; pods smooth, compressed, oblong or rhomboid, 1-1.5 cm long, containing two smooth, compressed, lenticular seeds, varying in colour from pale pinkish buff to Prussian red. It is widely grown in the Mediterranean countries, particularly in Spain, France, Italy and Greece in Europe, Morocco, Algeria, Egypt and Ethiopia in north Africa, Jordan, Syria and Turkey in Middle East. India and Pakistan are, however, the major producers at present. In recent years it is being grown also in Argentina, Ecuador and Chile. Its cultivation in India is quite ancient. It is grown throughout north India, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal and to a smaller extent in Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat. Habit Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2201 Use of ground brinjal to bring animal in heat Volume 2, page 329 Brinjal Refer to ITK Code No. 1842 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2276 Anoestrus Volume 2, page 329 Pearlmillet, clusterbean, castor and rice Pearlmillet: Bengali and Hindi: bajra, lahra; Gujarati and Marathi: bajri; Kannada: sajje; Tamil: kambu; Telugu: sajja, ganti. Pearlmillet: Pearlmillet, bulrush millet, spiked millet Pearlmillet: Pennisetum typhoides (Burm. f.) Stapf & C.E. Hubbard Pearlmillet: It serves as a staple foodgrain in many parts of India. Pearlmillet: A tall, erect, annual with slender, culms, 1-3 m high, simple or branched; leaves lanciolate; inflorescence a false spike, compact, cylindrical, greenish yellow or with a slight pinkish tinge, varying in size from 6 to 35 cm in length and 0.5 to 4.25 cm in diameter, densely packed with spikelets and bristles; grains pale yellow or white and from pale grey to dull light blue in colour.