1%) have proved an effective combination for controlling powdery mildew. | a) Dest amis ORCHID. Modified Vacin and Went medium supplemented with coconut water and banana pulp is best for transflasking of the orchid species. In Rhynchostylis gigantica, a fortnightly spray each of N, P.O, and K,0 (500 ppm) increases the number of flowers and length of the stalk. Fungal disease in orchids may be controlled by spraying of Captan, Dithane, Agrosan and Cerasan. CHRYSANTHEMUM. A closer spacing, 30 cm x 20 cm and 30 cmx 30cm, and optimum nutrition, 40 g N, 20 g each of P and K to a m2, greatly improves the number of flowers. Cycocel (50 ppm) and 8 HQC (200 ppm) prolong the vase life of flowers. Septoria leaf-spot may be controlled by monthly sprays of Bavistin (0.1%), Difolatan (0.3%) and Dalonil (0.2%). GLADIOLUS. For greater number of flower spikes, corms and cormels, feeding recommendations in Gladiolus are: 50 g N, 20 g each of P and K. Cobalt at 300 ppm and thiosulphate at 0.25 ppm increase the vase life of the Gladiolus spikes. Treat freshly harvested corms with 500 ppm of Ethrel, the shoots emerge early. Guidelines for early shoot emergence for stored corms are: keep corms at 20°C for 2 weeks; follow with 2 weeks at 5°C and revert to 25°C for another 2 weeks before planting. To control Fusarium wilt, spray Captan (0.3%); Emisan (0.2%) and Bavistin (0.2%). MICROPROPAGATION Protocols for micropropagation of most ornamental crops of commercial value have been standardized. Gladiolus APSARA Bove sient nitrogen-ixing strains from non-legume vegetables. Her contribution in biofertilizers is_¢ acknowledged The Pesticide Residue Laboratory recommends the waiting period for a crop to be harvested Dr Sukhda Mohandas has recently earned an award for | Dr B.S. Bhargava analysing nutrients and elements that cause pollution in the soil, water and plant system ye nase ut 3 jh wees are Checking onthe performance of stored fruits in controlled atmosphere is Mr K.P. Gopalakrishna Rao es Dr S.J. Singh, plant pathologist, is associated with the development of several outstanding disease-resistant varieties Dr S.C. Kotur at the Liquid Scintillation Counter Drs Shantha Krishnamurthy and Sudhakara Rao examining the shrink- wrapped fruits \ ial Mr P:R. Ramachander, IIHR, Bangalore, has developed these softwares on different aspects of horticulture in collaboration with a large number of specialists IN FUTURE... The demands on research on the horticultural crops have increased a great deal owing to arise in domestic consumption and quality expectations, and their fast- improving export status.