 Attributes proposed in the conceptual model and their operationalization Domain: I: Trainees‟ attributes Before training  Self-efficacy has been referred as the self-judgment made by individuals about their competency to perform a particular task set before them.  Organizational commitment is the interest of the learners who want to gain and use new knowledge at work place for betterment of their job performance and in turn organizational performance.  Perceived utility refers to perceived values the trainees hold towards utility of the training programme. In this study, it refers to the capacity building programmes of CAFT centres organized during 2007-08 to 2009-10 During training  Cognitive ability refers to the abilities applied by the trainees to imbibe/ comprehend the training content.  Conscientiousness refers to meticulousness, carefulness and precision, etc. extended by the trainees towards the training content.  Goal orientation refers to mental framework used by the individuals to interpret and behave in learning or achievement-oriented activities. After training  Motivation to transfer is the urge to apply knowledge and skills learned through training back at work place.  Personal capacity to transfer refers to the extent to which individual trainees have the time, energy and mental space in their work to support training transfer to the job. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 18  Locus of control has been defined as the generalized expectancy that organizational outcomes in terms of rewards and reinforcements are controlled by individuals‟ own actions (internally) or by other forces (externally). Domain: II: Attributes of organizational climate Before training  Transfer climate or general work environment refers to the characteristics of work environment that influence or hinder preparation towards training, participation in training interventions and training transfer.  Peer support is the extent to which peer group extend and facilitate their support to individuals for participation in training and on the job transfer of training content after training.  Supervisor support is the extent to which the supervisors or managers support participation of subordinates in training and the use of training acquired on to the job.  Strategic link refers to the match between learning outcomes and the departmental goals. After training  Accountability is the degree to which organizational climate and or managers allow the learners to use trained knowledge and skills on the job and hold them responsible for doing so.  Positive personal outcomes refer to the perception of employees about the extent of positive outcomes emerge out of application of gained knowledge and skills at work place.