 The technology can complement in attaining SDG14 goals for sustainably manage and protect the ecosystem in life below water. 2. Description (Background) - Materials and methods The DO monitoring system helps to sense DO level present in water by using a DO sensor and switch a connected aerator on and off in case of any stress situation. The control box consists of microcontroller, signal conditioner and other small electronic components which converts the signal to numeric DO value and displays on local display device as well as uploads the data to the cloud sever which is dedicated for the system. The cloud server stores and displays the data on website which is accessible on PC or mobile device. On the same time the system controls the aerator to manage the stress situation. A set point of DO is set in the system according to which the connected aerator is turned on or off. When DO level goes below Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 9.5. Use case: loT based Dissolved Oxygen (DO) Monitoring and Management System in Cultured Fisheries Source: Dr. Basant Kumar Das, ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI) Kolkata, India Part A 1. Introduction Fish and shellfish culture especially in inland fisheries have gained momentum due to ever- increasing demand of those substances. Growth and survival of those aqua products like fish and shellfish are very much dependent on the ambient environment. Among different water parameters, role of dissolved oxygen and toxic gases like ammonia is well known. Fisherman/ fish farmer used to take suitable remedial measures to lessen the stresses caused by those parameters from their congenial range. In this scenario, aerators or water lifting pumps are used to operate to increase the oxygen level in the water. In recent years, advancement in automation technology resulted in development of technologies that can improve the water quality of the fish farm, thus leading to increase fish production. Moreover, aquaculture and sensor-based water quality monitoring system have exponentially grown in the world but, combination of both domains still remains at its early stage. Generally, sensors are particularly vital in systems where water is recirculated and where stocking levels are high, but they are generally expensive, low limits of detection, high maintenance requirements. Many a cases, fisherman takes experience-driven management steps, rather than data driven which often not properly timed. Hence, an integrated automated system is necessary which will simultaneously identify the real issue and initiate appropriate management steps in real time to address the problem. The technology can complement in attaining SDG14 goals for sustainably manage and protect the ecosystem in life below water. 2.