 Pathogenesis- related proteins (PR2,3,4,5) having antimicrobial properties are key players in host defence responses against sheath blight in rice. Further, application of omics to study defense responses elucidated upregulation of genes for glycosyl hydrolase, secondary metabolite biosynthesis, cytoskeleton, and membrane integrity, the glycolytic pathway, and maintaining photosynthesis in resistance genotypes (Fig. 4). Tug of war between host-pathogen A tough battle is fought between the pathogen and host during establishment and progression of the disease. An arsenal of defense chemicals such as phytoalexin (sakuranetin), phytocassane A, B, C, D, and momilactone A, B are induced in the host plant upon sensing the attack. Higher synthesis of lignin, polyphenolpropanoid by the host reinforces the defense system. Detoxification of phytoalexins to other less toxic chemicals such as sakuranetin- 40-O-b-d-xylopyranoside, narin- genin and naringenin-7-O-b-d- xylopyranoside is employed by the pathogen. Secretion of host-specific Fig. 3. Various plant defense mechanism against infection of rice sheath blight pathogen along with plant response. Indian Farming 31 October 2023 RS toxin composed of glucose, mannose, N-acetyl galactosamine and N-acetylglucosamine in more virulent isolates also appears as a counter-measure to dampen host defense. Breeding strategies for sheath blight in rice The standard protocol for screening for disease resistance is based on relative lesion height (RLH) which is calculated in the percentage or ratio of lesion height to plant height. Conventional breeding strategies against R. solani Breeding for resistance against sheath blight in rice is mainly based on disease escape and disease resistance. Disease escape strategy is mainly based on plant ideotypes such as plant height, heading date, and stem thickness. Conventional breeding for sheath blight resistance in rice is limited due to the direct association of RLH with plant height. Hence, the intervention of molecular and biotechnological techniques is plausible in resistance breeding against R. solani. Identification of resistance genotypes appears to be a preliminary step in resistance breeding, researchers identified resistant rice genotypes against ShB. In general, indica cultivars show more resistance than japonica cultivars. Moreover, among rice wild complex, O. rufipogon, O. nivara, O. meridionalis, and O. barthii are resistant to sheath blight (Table 2). Identification of genomic regions harbouring shb resistance in rice Numerous earlier studies elucidated the quantitative nature and polygenic inheritance of resistance against sheath blight in rice. Attempts were made to map the genomic regions; >50 major and minor QTLs were identified across all the 12 chromosomes in rice. However, among all mapped QTLs, qShB9-2 and qSBR11-1, were reported as the major loci contributing 25% and 14% of total phenotypic variation, respectively.