 Our results suggest a relationship between LULC classes and their surrounding areas; Agricultural land area, water body extent, and solar power plants expansion benefitted from each other. Using SPI, the LULC classification overall accuracy increased from 81.02 % (Table 3) to 89.72 % (Table 4) with the Kappa coefficient increasing from 0.75 to 0.86 respectively. In all, 253 validation points were recorded with reference to high resolution Google Earth images. Canonical correlation analysis (CCA) was separately performed at the solar power park. Independent variables were LULC classes, solar power plants, agriculture, and water bodies; dependent variables were the production values in tons for cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, and vegetables in tons, as well as the area of cropped land, canals in hectares, and groundwater level. The parameter with the greatest significance was cereals; its canonical correlation coefficient (r) of 0.8 indicates a strong correlation between cereal production and the LULC classes of the solar power plant, agriculture, and water bodies (Table 5). The R-squared value of 0.64 indicated that the model explained a large proportion of the variation in cereal production. Other parameters (e.g., total cropped area, millets, pulses, and oilseeds) had lower correlation coefficients and R-squared values, indicating weaker associations with LULC classes. However, they remained statistically significant, with canonical correlation coefficients ranging from 0.46 for millets to 0.76 for pulses. Overall, the CCA results suggest that LULC classes, solar power plants, agriculture, and water bodies have moderate to Fig. 11. LULC of Pavagadh solar park area and its surrounding boundary up to 5 km in the years (a) 2007, (b) 2012, (c) 2017, and (d) 2022. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 14 strong relationships with the production values for cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, and vegetables, as well as the area of cropped land, canals in hectares, and groundwater level. This indicates that SAW nexus in Pavagadh solar park has a good influence on the agricultural sector on district level, and groundwater level in the locality. While the insights of the correlation analysis are valuable, it is important to acknowledge its limitations. It can be attributed largely to data scarcity. Further studies with more comprehensive data can provide a more definitive understanding and potentially validate our findings. 5. Discussion The utilization of land resources is a critical factor involved in planning and building societies. It directly or indirectly impacts the environment, ecology, economy, lifestyle, and other aspects of society. The recent surge in solar plant projects has led to irreversible changes in the environment. The SPI method is an effective technique for mapping solar farms and has great potential for future efforts to achieve continuous monitoring of panels.