 The grown up animals should be identified by ear tagging Animal identification by tattooing Outline of desired number or letter is pierced on the skin or inside ears and a black pigment is incorporated into these punctures. The various letters and figures are outlined by steel point and each of which carries a small amount of colored paste into the subcutaneous tissue and cartilage of ear. These pastes contain insoluble carbon (black) or green pigments that are inert to tissue. Tattooing is most suited for the identification of new born calves. The tattoo marks are permanent in nature although it becomes difficult to secure an adult animal so as to see its tattoo mark in the ear. Animal identification by ear tagging Tags are made of strong plastic with the number stamped on them. Tags are fixed generally to the ear with a special tagging forceps. Tags are two types – (a) self piercing type, and b) non piercing type. Farmer variety has sharp ends can be directly fixed to ear with a forceps while for the latter a hole must first be made with a tag punch or pen knife. Tagging is mostly used for marking young calf (6 month) and adult animals. Record keeping Keeping proper animal performance records is vital for the success of genetic improvement of the cows. The records are an essential guide for the scientific feeding, breeding and healthcare of the animals. A computer should be used for this purpose if possible, as it can play a crucial role in record management. The record keeping has tremendous advantages: CHAPTER 2 Identification and record keeping of animals M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 10 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Production performance of each animal can be known; yy Feeding and management can be done on the basis of the individual animal’s productivity; yy Superior animals can be selected based on their actual performance; yy Gaushalas can participate in herd registration and breed registration programmes of the government; yy Performance data can be provided to the administration for better planning; to research organizations for processing and analysis; and to extension personnel. Given below are the formats for `various performance records and various business records/registers, which need to be maintained at any gaushala. 1. History sheet Name of gaushala Animal No. Breed Sire No Dam No Dam’s Yield Address Date of birth Date of purchase Value (Rs) Calving date I II III IV V Service Date Bull No Date Bull No Date Bull No Date Bull No. Date Bull No. First service Second service Third service Calving date Sex of calf Lactation order I II III IV V Days in milk Milk yield (kg) Days dry 305 days yield (kg) 11 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS 2. Calving register Cow No. Due date of calving Date of calving Sire No. Calf No. Sex of calf Birth weight of calf Breed Remarks 3. Calf register Cow No. Date of birth Calf No. Sire No. Dam No.