 Different weed management strategies such as broad-spectrum herbicides, bio-herbicides, biotechnological approaches along with improved resource conservation technologies must be used along with good agronomic practices to ensure efficient weed control. Integrated weed management has the potential to increase productivity and profitability by making better use of resources and suppressing weeds. For pulse productivity to be sustained, an economically viable weed management strategy must be identified. Keywords: Bed planting, Herbicides, Integrated weed management, Pulses Indian Farming 73 (07): 03-06; July 2023 I ndia is the world’s largest producer of pulses, accounting for about 25% of global production. In India, pulses are the second most important group of food grain crops after cereals. These are an important part of the vegetarian diet of a large portion of India’s population. The important pulse crops are chickpea, pigeonpea, greengram, blackgram, lentil and fieldpea. Total pulses production during 2021–22 was estimated 26.96 million tonnes. Because of biological nitrogen fixation and the addition of massive amounts of organic matter, pulses play a critical role in improving and sustaining soil productivity. There is a significant opportunity to boost cropping intensity in cereal-based cropping systems by including pulse crops, which will not only increase system productivity and economic returns but also improve soil health quality. The pulse crops also disrupt pest dynamics, including weeds. Pulses contain 20–25% protein and essential amino acids needed for proper human growth and development. To ensure self- sufficiency, the pulse requirement of the country is projected to be around 50 million tonnes by 2050, implying a 4.2% annual growth rate. Almost 84% of pulses are grown under rainfed conditions, often in conjunction with other non-legume crops, and are subjected to a variety of biotic and abiotic stresses. Of the total loss caused by various pests in agriculture, weeds account for 37%, followed by insects (29%), diseases (22%) and others including nematodes, rodents, mites, birds etc. (12%). Weeds are the most significant biotic constraint in pulse production. Weeds compete with crops for vital growth resources (moisture, nutrients and solar radiation) resulting in severe yield loss. Development of efficient weed- management technologies in pulses is vital for increasing productivity, sustainability and farmers’ income. Losses due to weeds in pulse crops Weeds in pulses can have disastrous consequences. Crop- weed competition is severe due to the short-statured crops such as lentil and chickpea, as well as the slow initial growth of some pulses such as pigeonpea, chickpea and lentil. It has been observed that the presence of weeds throughout the crop season can reduce chickpea seed yield by up to 68%. Weeds reduced yield significantly in pigeonpea (46.7%), urdbean (55.4%), chickpea (48.1%), lentil (58.8%), and field pea (47.