 CIFE-ARGUNIL is available in the form of feed mix, which can be mixed with commercial feeds as gel coating and also available as medicated feed for direct use. It was developed based on ivermectin and has been granted patent. K PARACIDE—A emamectin benzoate based product to control parasitic infestation in fishes Efficacy of emamectin benzoate (EB) was evaluated against parasitic infections Caligus minimus in pearl spot, Etroplussu ratensis and Lernaea cyprinacea in Asian seabass, Lates calcarifer. EB was administered through feed top dressing at a dose rate of 50 µg/kg of fish body weight (BW)/day. In 7–10 days treatment emamectin benzoate could control parasitic infestations. Based on the results, a EB based product called PARACIDE was developed. — Narendra Modi We will link farmers to global markets. We will give the world the Taste of India 9. Mechanization and Energy Management Farm mechanization High speed planter for soybean: Timely sowing of field crops is one of the major challenges especially during kharif when number of clear sky days available for sowing/planting is very limited. A high speed planter will cover more area per unit time in comparison to conventional seed-cum-fertilizer drill/planter. Keeping these points into consideration, a tractor mounted six- row high speed (5–7 km/h) planter was developed with modified pneumatic metering mechanism at ICAR- CIAE, Bhopal. The approximate cost of machine is ` 90,000 and its cost of operation is ` 615/h. The breakeven point and payback period of the machine were 64.8 h/year and 1.96 year, respectively. application efficiency, field capacity and field efficiency are 71%, 0.16 ha/h and 82%, respectively. Small tractor mounted hydraulic platform: The development of suitable matching equipment for small tractor is of prime importance due to small fragmented land holdings, hill agriculture, shifting cultivation and lack of mechanization for leading horticultural sector. The operating height of the machine is 3 m (10 feet approx.). Overall dimension of the system is 3,000 × 1,500 × 1,450 mm, it weighs 700 kg and its load carrying capacity is 150 kg. Spraying system (500 l tank capacity) is attached with platform for application of fungicides/pesticides from top of the plant aiming at uniform distribution over the canopy. The field capacity and field efficiency of the machine is 0.3 ha/ h and 85%, respectively for orchards having 6 × 6 m plant geometry. Cost of the equipment is ` 400,000. Operating cost of the equipment is ` 6,520/ha. The developed system can also be used for other operations in orchard crops like pruning, spraying and fruits plucking. Deep placement fertilizer applicator as an attachment to ride-on type rice transplanter: A sensor based deep placement fertilizer applicator as an attachment to ride-on rice transplanter was developed to overcome the loss of nitrogenous fertilizers.