 IK contrasts with the international knowledge system generated by universities, research institutions and private firms. It is the basis for local-level decision in agriculture, health care, food preparation, education, natural resource management, and a host of their activities in rural communities (Warren, 1991). Indigenous knowledge is the information base for a society, which facilitates communication and decision-making. Indigenous information systems are dynamic, and are continually influenced by internal creativity and experimentation as well as by contact with external systems (Flavier et al. 1995). The term indigenous technical knowledge is often camouflaged with the belief that is associated with forthcoming happenings and the innovations made by the farmers to solve specific problems. Some of the related terms are: Indigenous Knowledge (IK): is the participants' knowledge of their temporal and social space. Indigenous knowledge as such refers not only to knowledge of indigenous peoples, but to that of any other defined community. Indigenous knowledge system (IKS): delineates a cognitive structure in which theories and perceptions of nature and culture are conceptualized. Thus it includes definitions, classifications and concepts of the physical, natural, social, economic and ideational environments. The dynamics of IKS takes place on two different levels, the cognitive and the empirical. On the empirical level, IKS are visible in institutions, artifacts and technologies. Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK): is specifically concerned with actual application of the thinking of the local people in various operations of agriculture and allied areas. Belief: change in behaviour of insects, animals and vegetation indicating a forthcoming event without any scientific rational but couid be true in happening. Innovation: outside the arena of ITK, but scientifically based development of practices using the locally available resources to solve specific problems. Bisht and Bhatt (2001) drew differences between Iraditional knowledge system and western scientific system as indicated below. Traditional knowledge system Western scientific system 1 2 All parts of the natural world are regarded as animate, all life forms as interdependent Human life is generally regarded as superior, with a moral right to control other life forms Knowledge is transmitted largely through oral media. Knowledge is transmitted largely through the written word Knowledge is developed and acquired through observation and practical experience Knowledge is generally learned in a situation, which is remote from its applied context (vi) INTRODUCTION 1 2 Knowledge is holistic, intuitive, qualitative and practical Knowledge is essentially reductionist, quantitative, analytical and theoretical.