 This information allowed us to construct a social map of each randomly surveyed farmer within the sample to capture knowledge spillovers and information ﬂows among farmers through social networks and identify network beneﬁciaries of KVKs (details of this are presented in Section 4 of this paper). In this study, beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations can be classiﬁed into three categories:  Primary beneﬁciaries—smallholders who receive beneﬁts directly from KVKs. Farmers who lend their ﬁelds to KVKs for frontline demonstrations directly beneﬁt from activities under- taken in the demonstrations and from direct interaction with KVK scientists.  Secondary beneﬁciaries—curious smallholders who visit the frontline demonstration site to learn from the primary beneﬁciary.  Network beneﬁciaries—smallholders who receive beneﬁts from having primary and secondary beneﬁciaries in their social networks. In sum, primary beneﬁciaries beneﬁt directly from KVKs; sec- ondary beneﬁciaries beneﬁt from being present at the intervention location at the local level7; and network beneﬁciaries receive spil- lover beneﬁts. Likewise, beneﬁciaries of capacity-building programs can be classiﬁed into two categories:  Primary beneﬁciaries—smallholders who receive training on the varietal evaluation of wheat under capacity-building programs directly from KVKs.  Network beneﬁciaries—smallholders who receive beneﬁts from having primary beneﬁciaries in their social networks. 3.2. Descriptive statistics Table 1 shows that the average household head (HH) is about 46 years old. Younger farmers are more likely to adopt new tech- nologies earlier than older farmers because they have longer plan- ning horizons (Liu, 2013; Vecchio, Agnusdei, Miglietta, & Capitanio, 2020). Mueller and Jansen (1988) used age as a proxy for farmers’ experience, ﬁnding that a farmer’s age is positively associated with the adoption of new technologies. Findings suggest that men head 95 % of the surveyed households. Accounting for this variable cap- tures the systematic difference, if any, in technology adoption by gender. The average household head has ﬁve years of schooling. Ojo and Baiyegunhi (2020) showed that education is essential for adopting improved technologies. The average household size is about ﬁve members. The survey reveals that 98 % of farmers are Hindus. Almost half (48 %) of surveyed farmers belong to the Scheduled Caste/Scheduled Tribes (SC/ST) category. SC/ST households face disadvantages in access to public-sector interventions in India. About 23 % of farmers possess a below-poverty-line (BPL) card.8 6 Agra, Allahabad, Ambedkar Nagar, Auraiya, Bhadohi, Etah, Etawah, Hathras, Jaunpur, Mathura, Raebareli, and Varanasi. 7 We do not have information on whether secondary beneﬁciaries visit frontline demonstration sites in the presence of scientists. 8 In India, the BPL card is issued to those households identiﬁed as poor by the government.