 ‘Simple living’ is the well-known Gandhian prescription that helps both to curb human greed and over reaching, and to prevent the visionless manipulation of natural resources. He was practicing and preaching recycling of waste, decades before the idea caught on in the world. He cherished the principles of non-injury, cared for the environment, practiced vegetarianism, worked energetically to conserve water, air and soil, prevent the destruction of developers, recycled paper, or accorded animals the dignity of humans. He believed that whatever is taken out of nature is to be recycled back through the natural process. Bapu recommended use of organic manure to retain texture and quality of soil and was apprehensive about use of tractors and chemical fertilizer, which he felt, will spell our ruin (Harijan 1948). He highlighted the potential use of human excreta and urine as valuable manure (Navajivan 1919) and observed that use of animal excreta and backyard kitchen waste carry potential to keep the premises free of disease and to increase fertility of soil with no much labour work (Harijan 1935). Vision of Bapu was full of strategies for environmental safety as evident from the fact that he was very much aware about solar power and he suggested to conserve the energy (letter dated 13-11-1945 to Pt. Jawaharlal Nehru). Gandhiji could foresee the devastating impacts of deforestation and over-use of renewable resources and chemical fertilizers leading to pollution of soil, water and air; global warming and desertification. His firm belief in nonviolence has unlimited ecological potential. His ideology of nonviolence with vegetarianism as a just one particular consequence of this faith, comprises safety of all living beings that contribute to the diversity of life (biodiversity). Swadeshi is the Gandhian policy that fostered self-reliance through the use of local goods, and showed a way to propel economy and employment in India. While the destruction of India’s biodiversity was triggered by rampant industrialization, thoughtfully and systematically applied Swadeshi concept would have gone a long way in promoting environment friendly and sustainable Environment-friendly Agriculture: Gandhian Principles 100 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR development models. He was deeply concerned about impact of atmospheric pollution on human health and was worried about the precarious working conditions in manufacturing industries, with employees being forced to inhale contaminated and toxic air. Gandhiji believed in a life form based on three fundamental principles: Simplicity, Slowness and Smallness. Life of this kind can be based on renewable resources only. The pattern of life predominated by the pastoral and agricultural system is conducive for sustainability of the environment. A society based on renewable resources, such as forestry and agricultural products, is superior to a civilization founded on non-renewable resources i.e.