25 billion/ha against Helicoverpa armigera on pigeonpea gave good control at Tandur, Medak (Andhra Pradesh). Steinernema carpocapsae and S. bicornutum were found effective against Spodoptera litura, Helicoverpa armigera, Opisina arenosella, Phthorimaea operculella and Plutella xylostella in laboratory. Galleria mellonella (final instar) was found most suitable for progeny production of Steinernema spp. and Heterorhabditis spp. Isolates of Steinernema bicornutum, Heterorhabditis indica and S. carpocapsae were effective at 2.5 billion Ijs/ha against brinjal fruit-borer Leucinodes orbonalis. Wouts medium has been ideal for multiplication of S. carpocapsae and H. indica, and dog-biscuit+beef extract medium has been found good for mass production of S. carpocapsae. Talc + China clay formulation at 15°C retained maximum viability and pathogenicity for 90 days. Biological Control of Plant Parastitic Nematodes Growth and sporulation of nematophagous fungi, Paecilomyces lilacinus and Verticillium chalmydosporium, could be enhanced significantly by supplementation of sorghum grain with calcium carbonate, chitin or both. An easy and rapid laboratory bioassay method for large-scale screening of a wide range of antagonists against specific nematodes has been developed. Biological Control of Crop Pests Commercial crops: Release of egg parasitoid T. chilonis at 50,000/ha at 10 days BIOLOGICAL CONTROL OF SPIRALLING WHITEFLY The polyphagous spiralling whitefly (Aleurodicus dispersus) first reported in 1993 from Kerala has been recorded on 253 host plants in India and the important economic plants include guava, banana, papaya, cucurbits, ornamental crops and shade trees. In an attempt to manage through classical biological control, 2 aphelinid parasitoids, Encarsia guadeloupae and E. sp.nr. meritoria found in Minicoy, Lakshadweep island in 1999 have been successfully introduced in and around Bangalore and they have now spread to several parts of peninsular India. Two of the important indigenous coleopteran predators Axinoscymnus puttarudriahi (Coccinellidae) and Cybocephalus sp. (Nitidulidae) have been able to discriminate between parasitized and unparasitized whitefly nymphs and completely avoided feeding on parasitized nymphs. IMPROVED STRAINS OF TRICHOGRAMMATIDS In SDS-PAGE profiles 3 new protein bands appeared in the pesticide tolerant Trichogramma chilonis as compared to susceptible strain. The insecticide tolerant strains could parasitize Helicoverpa armigera eggs even on just sprayed (Endosulfan, Monocrotophos, Fenvalerate, Cypermethrin, Dimethoate and Acephate) cotton-plants, and increased parasitism was noticed 5-7 days after spraying. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 44 interval during July-October reduced incidence of stalk-borer, Chilo auricilius, with just 1.36, 4.10 and 12.50% incidence as compared to 6.03, 11.20 and 20.20% in control.