 ILRI’s research goes much beyond livestock technologies and based on ILRI’s prevailing strengths and experience, ILRI complements NARS expertise by conducting research in the fields of food safety and zoonosis, gender, climate change, feed and fodder innovation, biotechnology, economic assessment of livestock systems, epidemiological studies, genetic studies and policy facilitation. As a global research institute, ILRI can bring global knowledge to address local problems. ILRI has access to and understanding of global livestock knowledge and technologies and therefore, it can create a platform for knowledge sharing and cross learning within and between regions. ILRI focusses on pro-poor livestock development policy which is very relevant for this part of the world. It develops, tests and pilots interventions that are affordable, acceptable and accessible to the poor livestock keepers. Other research systems including many national systems have a broader mandate to cover the whole agricultural or livestock sector and as a consequence often do not differentiate sufficiently the needs of poor smallholder livestock keepers from larger commercially oriented farmers. ILRI’s arguments and examples set by it in the field on pro-poor livestock development (for instance under NAIP or ELKS project, AIP) are well appreciated by policy makers and donor agencies. For last several years, ILRI has been implementing projects in partnership with local R&D organisations and has been trying to build their capacity by jointly designing and implementing projects. This is being done to strengthen capacity of local partners in order to ensure sustainability of ILRI’s initiative even after closure of the project. The Food Safety Zoonosis team at ILRI has previously been working with improving milk hygiene in Assam, and has been successful in increasing awareness among farmers about diseases and the importance of hygienic practices. In addition, the intervention has been shown to increase milk yield and reduce mastitis. The Policies, Institutions and Livelihoods program has previously worked on dairy systems in Bihar, Gujarat and Assam. This includes policy related issues in Bihar and the need to address the policy incoherence in the small holder dairy sector ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 53 through organization of a multi-stakeholder policy working group which focuses on ways of addressing policy gaps, enhances capacities for policy implementation and facilitates policy learning. 2.ii. Contribution during last one year In 2016, ILRI implemented more than 10 bilateral projects including five ICAR funded ones. The list of projects are itemized below (project details in section 3): yy Improvement of basal diet of dairy animals (Govt.