 Crop diversification and resilience of agriculture to climatic shocks: Frequent occurrence of extreme climatic events adversely affects agricultural productivity and food supplies. This study assessed the dynamic effects of climatic shocks, i.e. rainfall deficit and heat- stress on agricultural productivity and the contribution of crop diversification in mitigating harmful effects of such shocks. The rainfall-deficit as well as heat-stress damage agricultural productivity, and the damage increases with increasing severity of climatic shocks. The contribution of crop diversification in mitigating the harmful effects of climatic shocks was assessed by plotting climatic shocks and agricultural productivity at two levels of system diversity, i.e. less than 50% and more than 50% of the mean level of diversification index. There is a negative association between productivity and rainfall-deficit as well as heat-stress at low-level of system diversity. At higher level of the diversity, although the effects of climatic shocks remain negative, they are not as prominent as at the low level. The econometric analysis ascertained that marginal effect of rainfall-deficit and heat-stress is negative and significant confirming that climatic shocks reduce agricultural productivity, and the effects get accentuated in the long-run. Marginal effect of diversification is positive and significant, and the gains are larger in the long-run. The marginal effects of climatic shocks as well as diversification vary across seasons. These findings have two clear implications for policies aiming at making agriculture climate-resilient. One, since the climatic shocks are location-specific, there is a need to strengthen location-specific early warning systems to provide farmers timely information on weather conditions so that they are better-prepared to choose crops and other agronomic practices in anticipation of a weather shock. Yet, another related issue is of strengthening the agricultural information and input delivery systems, especially for seeds and agronomic practices that play Percentage flow of produce between various value chain actors. Binned scatter plot of climate shocks and productivity deviations. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 114 an important role in management of risks ex ante. Two, there is a need to emphasize research on crop breeding for stress-tolerance. Unlike other management options, stress-tolerant seeds are in expensive, easy to multiply and provide long-term solution. Regional level impact of climate change: The impact of climate change on agriculture system differs spatially within the country owing to large-scale heterogeneity in terms of biophysical characteristics and socio-economic developments. To develop location specific R&D and dynamic, diversified and flexible interventions it is imperative to understand the impact of climate variations at regional level.