 When a species’ rel- ative density, relative frequency, and relative abundance are calcu- lated as a percentage of the total plant density and summed together, the result is provided as the species’ Important Value In- dex (IVI). Density ¼ Total number of individuals of a species in all quadrates Total number of quadrates studied Frequency ð%Þ ¼ Total number of quadrates in which the species occurred Total number of quadrates studied Abundance ¼ Total number of individuals of a species in all quadrates Total number of quadrates in which the species occurred Various diversity Indices were calculated as follows: 2.4.2. Species richness (Sr) It is a way to gauge how many different weed species are pre- sent in a given area. It was determined as follows: Sr ¼ Sﬃﬃﬃﬃ N p where ‘‘S‘‘ is the number of species and ”N‘‘ denotes every single or- ganism in a sample. 2.4.3. Species diversity It serves as a gauge for the diversity of species present as well as their relative dominance or equality within a speciﬁc community. Shannon and Weaver (1949) used the following equation to create the Shannon-Weaver diversity index, which measures the diversity of species: H0 ¼ X S i¼1 Pi lnðPiÞ Calculated in this case is the proportion of species I to all species (pi). The values were then added up across species and multiplied by 1. Then multiply it by the natural logarithm of this ratio (ln pi). 2.4.4. Simpson’s index It is calculated as follow: D ¼ Ps i¼1nðn  1Þ N ðN  1Þ or X s i¼1 n=N ð Þ where N is the total number of organisms in all species, s is the number of species with this index, 0 indicates inﬁnite variety, and 1 indicates no diversity, n is the total number of organisms in a given species. Simpson 0s index of diversity ¼ 1  D ¼ 1  X s i¼1 pi 2 Simpson0s reciprocal index ¼ 1=D ¼ 1= X s i¼1 pi 2 2.4.5. Evenness/ Shannon’s equitability (EH) H is divided by Hmax, where Hmax equals LnS, to calculate it. Equitability presupposes values between 0 and 1, with 1 represent- ing perfect evenness, i.e. EH ¼ H=Hmax ¼ H=LnS: 2.5. Statistical analysis With the use of the analysis of variance (ANOVA) method and the OPSTAT statistical package, the weed count data (No. m2) were examined. Fischer’s least signiﬁcant test with a 5% probability threshold was used to evaluate differences in standard error (SE) and least signiﬁcant difference (LSD) across different tillage and weed management treatment means (Gomez and Gomez, 1984). With the GraphPad Prism 8.0.2 program, the ﬁgure was produced. 3. Results 3.1. Weed distribution Eight and seven weed species, respectively, were seen through- out the summer months in all treatments during the ﬁrst and sec- ond years. The two most common weeds during the ﬁrst year were Ageratum conyzoides and Commelina benghalensis, which togeth- er made up 24 and 21% of the entire weed ﬂora.