 Finally, India has a diverse range of agroclimatic zones with varying climatic risks and vulnerabilities, and adoption of CSA practices depends on farmers’ socioeconomic characteristics; climatic conditions around their location; the attributes of available practices and technologies; and their willingness to pay for these practices and technologies (Khatri- Chhetri et al., 2020). Mainstreaming climate concerns in local devel­ opment planning is critical and can help effective implementation of programs and generate evidence on CSA practices at the local level, thus facilitating enhanced decision making across all levels of governance (Aryal et al., 2014). 6. Conclusion India’s policy environment and implementation of various schemes and programs in the agriculture sector demonstrates serious commit­ ment toward promoting climate smart adaptation strategies. It is encouraging to note that according to the updated NDCs submitted to UNFCC in 2022, India has committed to enhancing investments in development programs in sectors vulnerable to climate change, including the agriculture sector (Sharma, 2023). To catapult to the next level, the current policies and institutional arrangements need to strengthen its emphasis on well-developed agriculture extension ser­ vices, supported by credit and insurance availability, to tackle the challenges of climate change better across various contexts (Byravan and Rajan, 2012). Designing and implementing gender-sensitive and socially inclusive initiatives to promote CSA practices would also be a crucial step toward enhancing resilience among vulnerable farming communities, especially in terms of prioritizing the needs of women farmers (Chanana-Nag and Aggarwal, 2020; Jost et al., 2016; Alkire et al., 2013; CCAFS and FAO, 2013; Quisumbing and Pandolfelli, 2010). Along with this, it would also be imperative to focus on social protection, and research and development to achieve the envisioned goals. Finally, states and the private sector have a vital role to play in facilitating the process of achieving “triple-wins” under CSA and their roles need to be strengthened. Funding This study was funded by the German Federal Ministry for Economic P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 11 Cooperation and Development (BMZ), commissioned and administered through the Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ) Fund for International Agricultural Research (FIA), grant number: 81235251, with support from the CGIAR Research Program on Policies, Institutions and Markets (PIM) led by IFPRI. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors, Prapti Barooah, Muzna Alvi, Claudia Ringler and Vishal Pathak declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Data availability The data that has been used is confidential.