 Postal Address: ICAR-DFR, College of Agriculture Campus, Narveer Tanaji Wadi, Shivajinagar, Pune, Maharashtra ii. Name of the Director: Dr KV Prasad (Act.) iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.dfr@icar.gov.in 020-25537025 2. Mandate and activities • To conduct basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of ornamental crops. • To develop a repository of genetic resources and scientific information on ornamental crops. • To transfer technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies through AICRP on Floriculture. Activities • To achieve the set mandate/objectives, research is planned and being conducted under four important themes viz. Crop Improvement, Crop Production, Crop Protection and Post- harvest Management & Value Addition. 3. Salient achievements • Repository of flower crop germplasm maintained in mandate flower crops like chrysanthemum (140 nos.), rose (25 nos.), gladiolus (79 nos.), tuberose (24 nos.), marigold (30 nos.), Heliconia (45 nos.). Speciality flowers (ginger lilies, etc.), begonias and ferns were collected, evaluated and recommendations were made for different purposes. • Improved varieties in different commercial flower crops (Tuberose - ‘Sahyadri Vaman’; Chrysanthemum DFR-C1, C2 and C3; gladiolus DFR GH-31, DFR GH-46 and DFR Gladiolus Hybrid-87) are in different stages of their release. • Unique DNA finger prints (SRAP markers, M4E3 for tuberose & M1E5 for gladiolus) were developed for tuberose (13 nos.) and gladiolus (10 nos.). • Phytochemical analysis including analysis of VOCs of flower crops chrysanthemum, tuberose, rose is in progress. • Environmental Horticulture – Screening of the plant species in the vertical landscape based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index (APTI) is in progress. 80 ICAR Institutes Profile 80 • Wealth from Waste: Use of industrial and agricultural by-products in potting media of potted flowering plants is optimized for important potted plants. • Molecular characterization including sequencing of 16S rDNA of Phytoplasma infecting aster, chrysanthemum, gerbera, annual chrysanthemum & marigold is standardized. • Disease diagnostics - Farmer Friendly on farm quick diagnostic tools based on serological lateral flow assay technique for detection of Plantago Asiatica Mosaic virus (PlAMV), a major pathogen of Liliums developed in association with USDA. • Floricare mobile app developed and launched in August 2019. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Technical guidance for commercial cultivation of flower crops (loose and cut flowers). • Capacity building in commercial floriculture, ornamental horticulture, crop protection, post- harvest handling, etc for all stakeholders. • Quality planting material of commercial flower crops (gladiolus, tuberose, chrysanthemum, marigold, aster, etc).