 Turmeric The average area under Turmeric in Tamil Nadu was 34,500 ha with a production of 18.81 lakh tonnes and the productivity achieved was 5,466 kg/ha. It was grown in six districts during the 510 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 study period. In Turmeric, a positive trend in area, production and productivity was observed in Dharmapuri, Erode, Namakkal, Perambalur and Thiruvannamalai districts. A decline in growth rate of area under turmeric was noticed in Coimbatore district only. Other Horticultural Crops The growth performance of other minor horticultural crops like guava, bhendi, brinjal, cabbage, potato, beetroot, carrot, etc. is outlined in this section. With respect to guava, in Dindigul and Sivagangai districts, an upward trend of production and productivity and downward trend of area was observed. In salem district, with regard to bhendi crop, a positive growth of area, production and productivity was found but in case of brinjal, it was reversible, as negative growth was seen in area, production and productivity. In the Nilgiris district, a positive trend of area was seen in cabbage, tuber crops (potato, beetroot, carrot), spices and condiments (ginger, cardamom, pepper) and plantation crops (coffee, tea). The negative growth of production as well as productivity was observed in cabbage, ginger and pepper crops in the Nilgiris district. In Kanyakumari district,an upward positive trend in area was observed for rubber crop. In Dindigul district, a major tobacco growing area in the State, a negative growth of area and production but a positive growth of productivity was seen. Therefore, in the context of increasing population, urbanization and a favorable shift in the consumption of fruits and vegetables, there in a need to cover larger area under horticultural crops. Horticulture crops are grown in 14.50 lakh hectares, of which vegetables, spices, plantation crops, flowers and medicinal plants are the major crops cultivated in the State. Totally, 86 horticultural crops are grown in the State which clearly indicate wider crop choice and its diversity and also the possibility of augmenting the income of farmers. The action plans suggested are as follows: To increase the income of the farmers, more support for establishment of pandals, trellies, staking and propping, poly green houses, (tubular structure) is proposed. Vegetables like bitter gourd, snake gourd, ribbed gourd, pandal avarai, pole beans, tomato, gherkin, cucumber, squash and in fruits, grapes, musk melons and in spices, pepper could be cultivated under pandal cultivation. Similarly, crops like peas, musk melon, pole beans, tomatoes, ivy gourd could be raised in trellies. High value vegetables like capsicum, beans and flowers like carnation, roses could be raised in poly houses.