 l Jute phloem lignin-dificient mutant dphl, showed potential for utilization to genetically engineer low lignin, fine and soft quality jute. Only 8 species of jute (Corchorus) were reported from India. In January 2002, in the southern parts of Kerala and Tamil Nadu, one more species Corchorus pseudo-olitorius was found distributed in the Tirunelvelli district (Tamil Nadu). This has been growing as weed in the sugarcane field and in the raised boundary wall of the paddy field. This species showed remarkable tolerance to diseases and pests compared to other wild jute species. Another species, Corchorus depressus has been reported from western provinces of India, and has showed tolerance to drought. This species was collected for the first time from Jaisalmer and other districts of TWO NEW SPECIES OF CORCHORUS FOUND IN INDIA Rajasthan. With the incorporation of drought- tolerant genes in the cultivated species, like C. olitorius, jute cultivation may be more remunera- tive. Wild jute Corchorus pseudo-olitorius Corchorus depressus, wild jute DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 44 identified and characterized for histological, biochemical and chemical traits. A clear distinction is visible in wall thickening of secondary phloem fibre cells in the mutant compared to normal plant. The extracted fibre strands from the mutant run almost parallel and do not show typical meshy nature of jute fibres. The lignin content of the mature fibre of the mutant was only 8–9% as compared to 17–21% in JRC 212. This phloem lignin-deficient mutant, designated as dphl, has a potential for utilization to genetically engineer low lignin, fine and soft quality jute. Crop Production At Bahraich, Nagaon and Aduthurai, substitution of 25% NPK either through compost or green manure enhanced jute fibre productivity significantly. Compost prepared from Sesbania rostrata proved most promising at Nagaon and green manuring with dhaincha at Bahraich and Aduthurai showed best performance. Crop Protection The bioagent, Beauveria bassiana (Balls.) Vuill., an entomogenous fungus, has been isolated from mesta-flea beetle Nisotra orbiculata (Mots.), and has proved active microbe for controlling insect pests of jute and mesta. Some other bioagents isolated either from diseased insects or from soil are Metarrhizium anisopliae, Gliocladium sp. and Paecilomyces lilacinus. The mass culture of the fungus is possible on the natural, semi-synthetic and synthetic media. Metabolites were extracted from Beauveria bassiana using ethyl acetate as solvent in the laboratory. These proved toxic when sprayed on the insect larvae. This fungus has got the antagonistic effect on the jute stem-rot, caused by Macrophomina phaseolina, and on Fusarium spp. B. bassiana spores could remain viable for 240 days, and after 8 months, no colony was recorded, as viability was lost.