 coli, rotavirus and coronavirus were also studied. The prevalence of Enzootic Bovine Haematuria (EBH) in Uttarakhand, levels of ptaquiloside and quercetin toxins in different ferns, and its pathology was studied. The cutaneous and teat warts and rumen/reticulum/urinary bladder mucosal growths showed involvement of bovine papillomavirus (BPV)-1 and -2 in cattle/ buffaloes and yaks, BPV-1 and -2 in equine sarcoids, BPV-1, -2, -5 and -10 and their combinations in cattle and buffaloes in EBH associated urinary bladder tumors. Extensive research was carried out on classical swine fever (CSF) in pigs. Probe based RT-PCR assays were developed for detection and quantification of virus load in pigs with different clinical forms of CSF. The pathogenesis of CSF was studied using tissue based nucleic acid probes (DNA and RNA) and Indian isolates of CSFV were genotyped as 1.1 and 2.2. Swine influenza in pigs was confirmed for the first time in 2009, and the virus Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 253 was shown to share close homology to the human H1N1 pandemic virus. Post-weaning multiple wasting syndrome (PMWS) caused by porcine circovirus-2 (PCV2) was reported for the first time in the country in 2005. PCV2 was genetically characterized as PCV2a and PCV2b and its recombinants. Other pig pathogens detected were porcine parvovirus, rotavirus, enterovirus, sapelovirus, Japanese encephalitis virus, Bordetella bronchiseptica and Streptococcus suis. 9.2. Parasitic diseases The development of vaccines against lungworms of sheep and bovine tropical theileriosis were useful for control of these diseases. For lungworm control, a gamma radiation- attenuated D. filaria vaccine (Difil) was developed by IVRI in 1971. The vaccine constituted infective stage, L3 filarial larvae, radiation attenuated at 50 krad. The ‘Difil’ vaccination significantly reduced the incidence of lungworm infection in sheep in the temperate Himalayan region. A series of ectoparasitic management practices and an anti-tick vaccine were developed at IVRI for tick management. The advent of immunological and molecular techniques helped parasitologists initiate work on characterization of parasite antigens and their use in diagnosis of parasitic diseases. Serodiagnostic tests viz., IFAT, ELISA, dot- ELISA, s-ELISA, EITB, and LAT were developed and standardized for accurate diagnosis and studying seroepidemiology of trypanosomosis, babesiosis, theileriosis, toxoplasmosis, hydatidosis, cysticercosis, toxocariasis, ancylostomiasis, prepatent fasciolosis, and haemonchosis. 9.3. Surgical interventions Veterinary surgery is one of the dynamic and enterprising areas of veterinary science research and practice. Different surgical techniques like castration, dehorning, hoof trimming, caesarean section, etc. have been part of the animal husbandry and management system.