 The institution, depending upon its mandate, is guided by the respective Deputy Director-General of the eight subject-matter divisions at the ICAR headquarters, and is assisted by a duly constituted body called Institute Management Committee. Each institution's functioning, policies and programmes are also guided by a Staff Research Committee and a Research Advisory Council. There are also bodies called Grievance Cell and Joint Staff Council to advise on the administrative and personnel matters. The ICAR has established a tradition of Quinquennial Reviews (QRs) to provide a mechanism of transparency and accountability to the Governing Body of the ICAR. QRs are the responsibility of the ICAR, and are conducted for the institution once in every five years (each institute/ unit is expected to facilitate the QRT so that the report is finalized and submitted to the competent authority one year prior to the start of the each Five-Year Plan). As each institution is functionally independent, QRs serve as an essential component of the monitoring and accountability system of the ICAR. The five-year review (achievement audit) is essential for monitoring progress of research, its relevance and excellence, and for providing guidelines to the ICAR for taking steps for the fulfillment of the mission and goals of the institutes and other units supported by it. The Quinquennial Review, like the External Programme Management Review (EPMR) under the CGIAR provides a measure of central oversight. The purpose of the independent review is to help the Governing Body of the ICAR to assess contributions made by each one of its institute/unit, and to evaluate its constraints, potentials, strategies and plans in scientific research and management of the programme. It is thus both retrospective and prospective. The review should be viewed as a joint venture of the ICAR headquarters and the concerned institute/unit. It should be the means for each unit to share its past achievements and problems with the ICAR headquarters, and to develop strategies and plans for the future. For conducting the Quinquennial Review, the ICAR will appoint a Committee of experts with an outstanding scientist as its Chairman. The review will be conducted in accordance with the guidelines approved by the Governing Body of the ICAR. It is desirable that the Quinquennial Review should be conducted in the 4th year of the Five-Year Plan so that its recommendations become available for planning future programmes coinciding with the next five-year plan of the institution through respective SFC/EFC Memorandum, which is the administrative/financial sanction. 2. Composition of the QRT The review should be considered as an independent external review, and its membership should be broad-based. The composition of the QRT should be restricted to 5 or 6 eminent scientists, including one management scientist/specialist and the Chairman*.