 The project has significantly contributed in increasing goat population, body growth and milk production of goat populations. Preventive health care measures with farmer’s support have reduced morbidity and mortality in ﬁeld ﬂock. The project has brought significant increase in the income of goat farmers besides enhancing the food security in the country. This project developed a model to implement genetic improvement programme in goat in different agro-climatic zones. Subsequently the project design is being used to develop national breeding plan for goats all over the country. A total of 461 villages with 2277 farmers were covered under AICRP on goat improvement and the performance recording was carried out on 62784 animals during 2014-20. For genetic evaluations, pedigrees of adequate number of goats of 15 breeds (ranging between 1000-6000) were identified by each collaborating unit and their performance recorded under field conditions. Production performance data from farmers flock are being recorded on 15 breeds distributed over 4-5 village clusters to ascertain genetic variability amongst them. The farm based units namely Jamunapari, Barbari and Sirohi are working as best models for in- situ conservation in the natural home tract of the breed. Institute based farm units are supplying 354-665 superior male germplasm per years in the field for breed improvement. Farm units have produced and distributed improved animals to different agencies for improvement of breed as also for up-gradation of local germplasm. A total of 6030 elite germplasm of Barbari, Jamunapari, Sirohi and Jakharana goat breeds were distributed during last 10 years to the farmers of the 15 States (UP, MP, Chhattisgarh, Haryana, Punjab, Rajasthan, Bihar , Jharkhand, Gujarat, Maharashtra, Odisha, Hyderabad, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Uttrakhand) directly or through governmental departments for upgradation/multiplication/ conservation of local animals and for productivity enhancement (through meat and milk production) along with literatures on scientific rearing practices. This has impact in terms of direct income to the farmers and about 30-40 % income has been increased. Use of selected bucks showed improvement in production and lactation traits (2-3%). but also increased true to breed type goats in adopted villages. Significant improvement (5-20%) in average body weight gain and milk production (15-30%) in farmer’s flocks have been recorded. The AICRP project facilitated in situ and ex-situ conservation of Barbari, Jamunapari, Sangamneri and Surti threatened goat breeds of the country. BLUP estimates of breeding values observed for most goats facilitating genetic selection. Grading up of local breeds through use of superior germplasm (>4500 elite animals introduced by farm unit to the field).