 (MANGALA RAI) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi New Delhi 4 December 2003 Foreword v U SE of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) in protecting crops, storage of grains, animal health care and other land-based activities is a continuous process since long. Advancement in scientific knowledge and development of practices based on use of agro-chemicals have gained popularity, replacing the ITK-based practices, particularly in resource endowed farming situations. However, ITKs remain in use for a vast section of farmers of the country. The Mission Mode Project on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) has been a land mark effort in this direction. The outcome of which has been published in three volumes of 4033 inventories of ITKs in agriculture. This publication entitled Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture-Document3 provides the results of validations conducted by the specialized ICAR institutes and State Agricultural/ Animal Science Universities across the country. The results of the experiments conducted clearly indicate the rationality and efficacy of the ITKs in solving the problems, faced by the rural people in sustaining their livelihood. This publication is, perhaps, the first of its kind which has been devoted in documentation of the results of experimentations and case studies on 16 thematic areas of ITKs. It is firmly believed that the findings of the experimentations and case studies would certainly encourage the researchers, planners and policy makers to look back into the wisdom of the indigenous knowledge and incorporate the same in the research/development agenda. The project team expresses its deep sense of gratitude for constant encouragement from Dr Mangala Rai, Secretary (DARE)/ Director-General (ICAR) from the day of inception of the project. The support, guidance and methodological backstopping received from Dr A. Alam, the then Deputy Director-General (Agricultural Engineering) and Chairman of ITK Information Committee (ITKIC) and presently Vice- Chancellor, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Srinagar; and the members of the ITKIC are highly acknowledged. The project team is equally thankful to Dr P. L. Guatam, the then National Director (NATP); Dr S. L. Mehta, National Director (NATP) and Dr K. P. Agrawal, National Coordinator (MM) for their all out support and encouragement. The useful guidance in shaping the experiments for validation provided by the Chairpersons of the Zonal Technical Coordination Committees is acknowledged. The publication including the previous volumes have been brought out in record time with the help of Mr Arvinda Chakravarty, Director (DIPA); Mr C. S. Viswnath, Chief Editor; and Mr Virendra Kumar Bharti, Chief Production Officer and other Associates. We are thankful to them.