 The role of horticulture is changing rapidly from traditional to high income generating activity. The horticultural crops are highly income intensive if improved management practices are adopted along with development of appropriate market linkages. The production of fruits and vegetables has a comparative advantage, particularly under conditions where arable land is scarce, labour is abundant and markets are accessible. Integrated farming system, a multidisciplinary whole-farm approach with special emphasis on natural resource conservation and their judicious utilization, is gaining immense importance now-a-days. With the increasing need for food and nutritional security under the changing climate and resource degradation due to faulty land use practices, horticulture-based farming system has emerged as important strategy to address this issue. Horticulture based farming systems helps in effective utilization of resources and improvement of environment. Preservation of bio-diversity, diversification of cropping/ farming system and maximum recycling is the base for success of the farming systems approach The wastes/ by-products of crop/animals used as input for another component has increased the nutrient efficiency at the farm level through nutrient recycling. In the farming system approach, horticulture provides excellent opportunities in raising the income of the farmers even under abrasive conditions. The cultivation of fruit crops Poonam Kashyap*, N Ravisankar, A S Panwar, P C Ghasal, Amit Nath, S Malik, A K Prusty, Chandrabhanu, M Shamim and D Dutta Technology Sustainable integration of banana in farming systems for enhanced income and nutritional security Banana is a very popular fruit due to its low price and high nutritive value coupled with ample carbohydrates and vitamins. It has a short gestation period and higher potential. It is essentially a tropical plant requiring a warm humid climate. Almost all the parts of this plant viz. fruits, leaves, flower bud, trunk and pseudostem can be utilized effectively in a farming system. Banana plantation offer tremendous opportunities to efficiently increase the yield and income of farmers in a shorter time. Development of Banana-based farming systems involves cultivation of compatible intercrops along with the integration of enterprises like poultry, dairy, mushroom, fishery, crops, etc. Integration of banana in the system offers considerable scope for increasing production in lesser time and with high input-use efficiency. The wastes/by-products of crop/animals used as input for another component helps in increasing the nutrient efficiency at the farm level through nutrient recycling. under horticulture based farming system (HBFS) plays an important role in the prosperity of a nation along with health, happiness, prosperity of the people and ensures sustainable farm income under abrasive climatic conditions.