 Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility. To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 47 January 2023 Foxtail millet: Nutritional importance and cultivation aspects K Hariprasanna* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) also known as Italian millet, German millet, Chinese millet or Hungarian millet, is one of the oldest cultivated millets in the world. It is cultivated in about 23 countries of Asia, Africa and America. It is a self-pollinating, short-duration, drought tolerant and C4 cereal crop good as food for human consumption, feed for poultry and cage birds, and fodder for cattle; mainly cultivated in poor or marginal soils. It plays an important role in the world agriculture providing food to millions of people dependent on poor or marginal soils in southern Europe and in temperate, subtropical and tropical Asia.