 Keywords: ICAR-DCFR, Polytask, Rainbow trout, Recirculating aquaculture system, Trout raceway Indian Farming 70(11): 49–53; November 2020 Rainbow trout farming in raceways Among all the coldwater cultivable fish species, rainbow trout has been considered as a promising candidate species in hill fish farming and its large scale seed production and culture is being carried out in several fish farms in Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim (Fig. 1). The basic requirement for establishing a trout farm is availability of good quality and quantity of snow fed spring water where temperature throughout the year is below 200C. There are about 35 small and big trout hatcheries with an estimated eyed ova production capacity of 15 million are present in the country which have been mostly established by the various state governments and also with the assistance of central government schemes. The states of Jammu and Kashmir Leh- Laddak, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and also in high reaches of Uttarakhand. Seed production of trout is mainly in Jammu, Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand in central Himalaya. However, with the DCFR’s tiring efforts, seed production of trout has further been extended in Sikkim and of late in Arunachal Pradesh. At present the trout production in the country is over 1,500 tonnes (2018-19). The rainbow trout is a highly expensive fish to cultivate in the farms and as a luxury food beyond the reach of the common man is still holding well amongst the fisheries planners. Being a low volume high value commodity, the trout has good potential for domestic consumptions as well as foreign export. Presently the rainbow trout has been established in Indian water and is a and Himachal Pradesh are forerunner in promoting rainbow trout farming in private sector. The highest trout producer states in India are Jammu and Kashmir with a table size trout production of 700 MT and 13.4 million trout ova production. Himachal Pradesh is the second highest producer (650 MT) in the country. DCFR is further giving technical support and conducting demonstration program for expanding trout culture activities in 21000 14000.84 6000.186 5000 380 Jammu & Kashmir Himachal Pradesh Uttaranchal Arunachal Pradesh Sikkim Total Fish Production (MT) (2018-19) Fig. 1. Total fish production from Himalayan States is 46,381 MT Indian Farming November 2020 50 cultivable species with cool, clean and well oxygenated flowing water (Fig. 2). Cool, clean and well oxygenated flowing water is the prime need for the successful culture of rainbow trout. Raceways of 30-150 sq m with depth of 1 m used for the production of table sized trout fish (300-400 g). This system is feed based culture in continuous flowing water known as raceway farming. The stocking density is also dependent on quality and quantity of available water volume.