 They learnt about it while travelling from one place to another along with animals. Other farmers say this remedy is also useful bullocks (Kheda, Gujarat). Marwadi (1999) 172 Curing rheumatism in cattle Rheumatism is a disease which affects the joints of the cattle. The knee is most affected and the intense pain causes the cattle to limp. Hadsankala ajmo and sava are used for treating rheumatism. Approximately 300 ml juice is extracted of hadsankala (Cissus quadrangularis). To this 25g of ajmo (Trachys- Pancholi (1999) 213 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference permum ammi) and 10 gm of sava (Anethum sawa) powder is added. This is given to the cattle once a day for a week. This cures the cattle of the rheumatic pain (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). 173 Cure from snake/ scorpion bite Leaf, stembark,rootbark and seed of Siris scorpion bite (Albizzia lebbeck) contains saponin used as immunogenic, astringent, anthelmentic. Bark is used for curing bronchitis, leprosy, paralysis; gum is used in curing inflammation, diarrhoea, while plant and leaf is against scorpion/snake bite and night blindness (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 174 Treatment of mino If an animal feeds too extensively on immature sorghum or the first cutting of lucerne it often results in an ailment called Mino. Symptoms are restlessness and discharge. Soil from termite mounds is rubbed thoroughly for 5-10 min onto the inner and outer of the mandible (jaw) and this is repeated frequently for three days. Since this remedy has yielded success for ages, farmers use it with confidence (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Mer (1992) 175 Control of anthrax Tillai a wild plant and its bark and leaves are used to treat this disease. 250 g well grinded bark is taken and solution is made in half litre of water or 50 g well pounded leaves along with 4 grains of black pepper is given to the suffering animals once a day for 2-3 days with the help of drench bottle made of bamboo locally called as dharati. Animal is cured within 2-3 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 176 Use of leaves of aegle marmelos cenchrus spp for control of pus in udder Leaves of bili (Aegle marmelos) and dhamno (Cenchrus spp) are collected in equal quantity and crushed together. This mixture is suspended in water and sprinkled over the udder frequently in a day, if pus comes from the inflamated udder, it is cured in few days (Bharuch, Gujarat). Nareshbhai (1992) 214 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 177 Treatment of urinary problems One kg of chhatodi (Boerhavia diffusa) roots are boiled vigorously in two and a half litres of water till the quantity of water reduces to one litre. The decoction is stored in a vessel and administered to the animal having urinary trouble for two to three days at a dose of 100 ml per day. Chhatodi is a creeper with small round leaves, bears white and yellowish-pink flowers.