 For better establishment, seedlings should be transplanted in the evening. The optimal spacing of red cherry pepper is 0.9 m × 0.75 m with planting preferably done in raised bed. Before planting, roots should be treated with Trichoderma viride and Pseudomanas fluorescens @1% for 15 min to manage wilt problem. Water stagnation in the field can causes serious damage to crop so, proper drainage facility should be made. Shade should be provided with chilaune (Schima wallichi) twig to the individual plant during summers especially after transplanting. Intercultural operations: Gap filling should be done during second irrigation, 10 days after transplanting. Light hoeing is required to loosen the soil for better aeration and root growth. In order to boost vegetative growth, fruit set and yield buds from first and second nodes are pinched off. Black polythene sheet is the most preferable mulching material for this crop. Mulching techniques • Very thin film (25 micron) can be used. • Required length of film for one row of crop is taken and folded in thaan at every 1 metre along the length of the film. • Round holes are made at the centre of the film using a punch or a bigger diameter pipe and a hammer or a heated pipe end could be used. • One end of the mulch film (along width) is anchored in the soil and the film is unrolled along the length of the row of planting. • Apply the required quantity of FYM and organic bio-fertilizer before mulching. • Mulch film is then inserted (4–6 inch) into the soil on all sides to keep it intact. • Seedlings are planted directly into the holes made on the mulch film. • For mulching established seedlings, the process of punching the hole is the same. One end of the film along the width is buried in the soil and the mulch film is then unrolled over the saplings. During the process of unrolling, the saplings are held in the hand and inserted into the holes on the mulch film from the bottom side, so that it could spread on the topside. Irrigation Continuous supply of optimal water is essential for optimal plant growth and fruit yield. The first irrigation should be given immediately after transplanting and water should be provided at weekly interval in greenhouse planting. In drip irrigation the lateral pipelines are laid under the mulch film. In case inter-cultivation need to be carried out, it is better to keep the laterals and drippers on top of the mulch film and regulate the flow of water through a small pipe or holes made on the mulch film. Economic benefits The plant start flowering after 80–90 days of planting and first picking is done at ripening stage after 35–45 days of flowering (Table 3). Generally, 8–10 pickings are done every year. It continues to bear fruits for 2–3 years. Single fruit weight varied 4–6 g and it bears around 250–430 nos. of fruit per plant. The fruit yield varies 500–1500 g/plant, Nursery seedlings Table 2. Organic soil nutrient management Source Dose Application Time Farmyard manure 12.