 CIFRI’s spawn prospecting experiments in the 1960s resulted in the formulation of a system for riverine spawn gathering and site selection. The efficiency of shooting nets in collecting spawn in the shallow margins of flooded rivers aided in the exploitation of major carp seed resources from major riverine systems. The ICAR-CIFRI has recently re-estimated the production potential of selected stretches of Ganga. To address the declining trend of fish production, measures like ranching, habitat characterization and protection, fishing ban, and application of GIS and remote sensing technology for resource mapping are suggested. To understand the dynamics of river hydrology and ecology, since 2010 ICAR-CIFRI has studied the environmental flow of several Indian rivers such as Teesta, Cauvery, Mahanadi and Kathojodi. River ranching has been undertaken in different rivers by varied organizations from time to time as an important strategy for sustaining the fisheries of commercially-important species. Since 2016, ICAR-CIFRI has been carrying out a massive ranching programme with the release of over 4.5 million advanced fingerlings of Indian major carps in depleted stretches of the River Ganga covering states like Uttarakhand, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand & West Bengal with the funding support of the National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG). The diverse estuary systems covering about 300,000 ha also provide a sizable portion of India’s fisheries resources. The Hooghly-Matlah estuary, the largest estuary system in the country, captures approximately 66,200 tons of fish year-1 along a 296-kilometer stretch. 2.1.2.2. Fisheries enhancement in reservoirs and wetlands The average annual fish yield of small, medium and large reservoirs was 49.9, 12.3 and 11.4 kg ha-1 yr-1, respectively as against the potential yield of 100, 75, and 50 kg ha-1 yr-1 (Sugunan 1995). Considering such immense potential, the Government of India had initiated schemes for reservoir fisheries development through fingerling stocking programmes with technological backstopping from ICAR-CIFRI. With such interventions, the fish yield from Indian reservoirs in recent years increased to 190, 98 and 34 kg ha-1 yr-1 against a reassessed potential of 500, 200 and 100 kg ha-1 yr-1 from small, medium and large reservoirs respectively. Of late, the adoption of cage culture technology was proved to be a viable option to harness the potential of such resources. While the pangas catfish Pangasianodon hypophthalmus has been the species of choice for cage culture across the country due to its higher growth and production potential, other diversified species are being evaluated for a higher return. Yield levels of 2.5-3.0 tons of pangas are achieved in cages of 6 m x 4 m x 4 m in a 6-8 months culture period. ICAR-CIFRI has recommended the adoption of cage culture mainly in medium and large reservoirs accounting for about Indian Agriculture after Independence 178 1.