 National Mission for Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), Soil Health Card (SHC), National Policy for Management of Crop Residue (NPMCR), Customized Fertilizers, National Biogas and Manure Management Programme (NBMMP), neem Coated Urea Scheme, Rehabilitation of Degraded Lands Targets and Land Degradation Neutrality, Nano Fertilizers, India’s commitment for Net Zero Emissions are some of the steps for improving soil health. SUMMARY “If we feed the soil, it will feed us,” and only productive soil can support a prosperous people. Thus, maintaining soil health is essential to human health, ecosystem functions and nature conservancy. However, impact of soil health goes beyond human health, it also has a profound impact on atmosphere, biosphere and the hydrosphere. The environmental consequence of soil health is also determined by the SOC pool, its dynamics and the turnover time, and that of climate change by both SOC and soil inorganic carbon dynamics. Creating awareness among farmers regarding the soil fertility depletion, its correction and the importance of SOC in crop production, development of rehabilitation policy programmes at micro-level to promote soil management practices that are a net sink for atmospheric C and encouragement of integrated and holistic land management practices are required to sustain SOC sequestration rates. *Corresponding author’s email: Sumanta.K@icar.gov.in Composting ICAR New Portals The Council has created the following portals for effective governance by utilizing the information and communication technology. ICAR Data Centre and Unified Communication portals to secure institute information and information transmission.  ICAR-Enterprise resource planning (ERP) System to this manage the human resource in information of the council including pay roll, finance and budgeting.  KVK Knowledge Network Portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in) to share basic information and facilities of KVKs with contingency plans, demonstration schedule, and advisories.  Management System for Post-Graduate Education (MSPGE) enabling academic and e-learning modules while also being a repository of academic records  E-Samvad, an online interface of the Council to answer citizens queries.  KRISHI –A knowledge repository portal of digital information pertaining to research experiments, outputs, publications, etc.  E-Krishi Manch, a dedicated portal for farmer-scientist interaction. Indian Farming 30 June 2023 Digitalization in agriculture for innovative transformation in India Anil Rai* Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001 Digitalization in agriculture has a great potential to bring about significant innovation and transformation in India's agricultural sector.