 Effective collaborations between national and international research organizations is prime to intensify research to build resilient agriculture and food systems, find solutions for climate change adaptation and mitigation. Recognize the enhanced need of cooperation and research on transboundary diseases and One Health issues and strengthen the research collaboration and public awareness of millet crops. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: atarijodhpur@gmail.com Topics and resource partners in MACS 2023 India ICAR-DARE 1. Innovations and technological interventions for agri-food systems transformation 2. Biofortification in food crops for enhancing nutritional value 3. Millets and Other Ancient Grains Interntaional Reserach Initiative (MAHARISHI) 4. Climate resilient agriculture UN Organization and Others A. Food & Agriculture Orgnaization 1. Frontiers in Science and Technology for Achieving Food Security & Nutrition 2. Pluralistic Agricultural Extension and Adisory Services (EAS): Partnership for improving lab to land and Outreach B. World Health Organization One Health as an Integrated and Unifying Approach: Partnerships and strategies for coordinated action Asian Development Bank Agri-tech Startup Ecosystem Centre for Agriculture and Bioscience International (CABI) Digital Agriculture and Traceability G20 Memeber States Japan Biological Nitrification Inhibition (BNI): Reducing GHS emissions and Increasing crop yields Germany Digital technological solutions for reducing food loss and waste Indonasia Tropical sea weed farming for nutrition and blue growth CGIAR Centres ILRI: Transboundary Pests and Diseases: R&D Priorities for resilient agi-food systems One CGIAR: Nature-Positive Agriculture: Science and Innovations for building resilient agri-food systems CIMMYT: Smallholder and Family Farming: G20- Global South Cooperation for Agri- R&D IRRI: Public Private Agri R&D for Public Goods: Experience in generationg and accelerating Innovations Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 8 June 2023 Highlights and outcome of MACS G20 countries meet at Varanasi S K Malhotra*, Bikas Mandal and Ravi Prakash ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012 The G20-Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) is a unique platform to discuss knowledge, science and technologies based solutions for food and nutrition security and strengthening cooperation among the member nations. The ICAR-DARE was assigned responsibility to take lead in organization of 12th Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) at Varanasi from 17–19th April 2023, with theme of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet. About 80 delegates from G20 Member States participated to discuss various issues of agriculture research and development including food security and nutrition, climate smart agriculture, digital agriculture and public private partnership.