 300 BC Lake Sudarsana Chandragupta Maurya, renovated by Emperor Ashoka at Kathiawar, Gujarat 2. 100 BC-100 AD Taming Cauvery River Chola King Karikala to control flood in the Cauvery Delta. 3. 2nd century Grand Anicut River Cauvery in southern India. 4. 10th century Bahur Tank Bahur, Pondicherry, maintained by villagers from the penalty to defaulters. 5. 11th century Gangaikonda Chola- puram Tank King Rajendra Chola, embankment of 25.8 km with sluices and channels for irrigation. 6. 11th century Bhojpur Lake King Bhoj of Dhara in Central India, covered an area of 647.5 km2. 7. 14th century Anantaraja Sagara Prince Bhaskara, 1st Vijayanagara Dynasty in Andhra Pradesh. 8. 14th century Early Western Yamuna Canal Ferozshah Tughlak, Munak branch of canal was construct- ed to carry water to Delhi. 9. 17th century Early Bari Doab or Hasli Canal Shahjehan to carry water from river Ravi to Shalimar Gar- dens at Lahore. A branch was constructed to carry water to the Golden Temple. 10. 18th century Early Eastern Yamuna Canal Mohammed Shah to carry water from river Yamuna. Canal was remodelled during the British rule. 3.2. Irrigation development during the British rule During the British rule, the existing irrigation infrastructures were renovated and improved besides the construction of new irrigation systems. Large irrigation projects such as Cauvery, Godavari, and Krishna Delta systems were constructed during the early and middle of the 19th century. The Western and Eastern Yamuna canals, the Ganga and Bari Doab canals were also constructed. That was the time when private companies were encouraged by the Government for construction of irrigation systems. The East India Irrigation and Canal Company were established in 1858, originally for the coastal plains of Odisha and adjoining areas. The irrigation projects such as Mahanadi, Brahmani, Baitarani, Subarnarekha and Kosi derived their names from the rivers from which they originated. The Madras Irrigation Company was formed in 1863. Tungabhadra project in south India was completed, partly by the company and partly by the Government. The Sone Canal in Bihar was constructed during this period. Government of India initiated some large irrigation projects during the period 1836-1866, which are referred as ‘Classical Works’. These were the Upper Ganga Canal in Uttar Pradesh, the Upper Bari Doab Canal in the Punjab and Godavari and Krishna Delta Projects in Andhra Pradesh. The Upper Ganga Canal, known as Ganga Canal at that time, was the classical project completed during 1836-1854. It was the largest irrigation Natural Resource Management in Pre-independent India 63 canal in the world during the time.