 Following the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Agriculture (1928), the government of India decided to develop the country's fishing industry. Attempts to develop fisheries through technology transfer were made as early as 1928, and is still in progress. The following are some of the significant attempts made so far in India for technology transfer in fisheries. yy In 1942, Mr K H Alikunhi initiated research on inland fisheries through the ICAR- sponsored Madras Rural Pisciculture Scheme, and hundreds of rural fishery demonstration ponds sprang up throughout the Madras Presidency. This was the first extension project that translated research findings into production programmes, and it was the forerunner of the highly successful Fish Farmers Development Agency (FFDA) scheme. yy In 1945, training centres for fisheries were established in Barrackpore, Kolkata and Mandapam, as recommended 56 by the Grow More Food Campaign (GMFC) in 1940. In 1947, a Central Fisheries Research Station was established at Barrackpore (which has later become CIFRI). yy The First All India Fisheries Conference, held in New Delhi in 1948, recognised the importance of the fishing industry in the hands of concerned officials from the central and state governments, and focused its attention on the need to develop the fisheries industry. This conference gave birth to the idea of subsidising a portion of capital expenditure. yy The All India Co-ordinated Research Project (AICRP) on composite carp culture began in 1971 with the goal of demonstrating the technology in various macroclimatic zones. yy In 1971, the AICRP on air breathing fish culture was established in West Bengal, Karnataka, AP, Bihar, and Assam with the goal of developing appropriate technology for freshwater air breathing fish culture in public water bodies. yy The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA) was established in 1972 to increase fisheries production and promote seafood exports. yy Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) were established as district-level institutionsto provide farmers, unemployed youth and extension workers with need-based and skill- oriented vocational training in agriculture and allied fields through work experience at the grass root level. The first KVK was established in Pondicherry in 1974. yy The Rural Aquaculture Project of the International Development Research Centre (IDRC) was launched in 1975 with the goal of demonstrating various aspects of carp culture and carp seed production by providing all necessary inputs and know-how to improve the rural economy. This was carried out in 75 villages across West Bengal and Odisha. yy The Government of India established the Fish Farmers Development Agency (FFDA) in 1974-75 to popularise fish culture as an alternative means of employment generation and poverty alleviation for the rural poor.