 Beejamrutam/Bijamrita/Beejamrit For its preparation, taken 20 litre water, 5 kg cow dung, 5 litre cow urine, 50 g lime and handful soil from the bund of the farm. Thoroughly mixed all the ingredients in plastic/ glass jar and kept overnight. For leguminous crop, the seeds are just dipped and dried quickly. The seeds are soaked in Beejamrutham for 10– 15 min and let dry for 2–3 hours in shadow. The seeds are germinated before sowing into soil which eliminates any virus on seeds and also avoids any soil insects to attack the seed. Neemashtra Neemashtra is liquid based formulation of neem and cow urine prepared within 3–4 days. It is sprayed on crops to control insect- pests like aphids, jassids, mealy bugs, thrips, whiteflies, small caterpillars and other sucking pests. Liquid formulation can be made by mixing 5 kg of fresh neem leaves/ 5 kg of neem seed kernels, 100 litres of water, 5 litres cow urine and 1 kg of cow dung. Recommended application dose is 250 litres per hectare of crop. It is a botanical formulation prepared by using neem leaves, chilli fruits, garlic and cow urine. It is used to manage stem borers, fruit borers and other different types of caterpillars of the crop. Taken half kg each of green chilli and garlic, 5 kg of fresh neem leaves, 20 litres of cow urine and mixed. Boiled the contents for 20 min and then cooled, followed by filter. Applied 5–6 litres of Agniashtra for spraying in one hectare after dilution in 250 litres of water. Brahmashtra It is a cow urine and botanicals- based formulation. Take 3 kg of In situ green manuring before rice transplanting Indian Farming 31 May 2023 fresh neem leaves and 2 kg of karanj leaves or take 5 kg of neem leaves, take 2 kg of custard apple leaves, 2 kg of Datura leaves and mix in 10 litres cow urine. Boil the mixture for about 20–25 min followed by cooling and filter the content. Take 5–6 litres of filtrate and dilute in 250 litres of water for spraying on one hectare. If infection is high use 4% foliar spray. Acchadana/mulching Mulching is the process of covering the top soil with crop waste/dried leaves or with cover crops. It protects the top soil from erosion; it improves soil aeration, conserves soil moisture, increases water retention capacity of the soil, and encourages soil fauna as well as soil nutrient status and controls weed growth. Whapasa/moisture Whapasa is the condition where both air and water molecules are present in the soil. Good aeration is required in the soil for proper plant growth and development. It improves soil aeration, thus improves humus content, good water holding capacity and soil structure which is most suitable for crop plant growth especially during drought periods. Zero budget natural farming experiment at Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Sikkim Chilli-garlic extract As name denotes, it is chili and garlic-based formulation with cow urine, neem and basharam (Ipomea carnea) leaves. It is useful to manage different kinds of caterpillar, i.e.