 Fortunately, the science underpinning plant breeding is being revolutionized by the development of rapid, cheap sequencing technologies and growth of genomics is allowing detailed analysis of plant genomes and dissection of genetic basis of agronomic traits. Genomics is now the focus for crop improvement, including identification of genetic variants and identification of additional sources of novel traits and characterization of molecular pathways involved in biotic and abiotic stress tolerance. The rate of malnutrition and poverty in India has declined from approximately 90 per cent at the time of country’s independence to less than 40 per cent at present. This has been possible by the use of genomic sequencing. ICRISAT had established Centre of excellence in Genomics & Systems Biology in 2007 with broad partnerships and sequenced the genes in pigeonpea in 2012, chickpea in Prof. Rajeev K. Varshney is a specialist in genomics and molecular breeding. He has worked as Research Program Director Genetics Gains and Director, Center of Excellence in Genomics and Systems Biology at the International Crops Research Institute for the Semi- Arid Tropics (ICRISAT). Presently, He is Director, Centre for Crop & Food Innovation, Murdoch University Australia. 86 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 2013, pearl millet in 2017, wild ancestors of ground nut in 2016 and cultivated groundnut in 2019. Gene India has contributed in decoding gene sequences of rice, tomato, chickpea, pearl millet, pea and wheat etc. ICRISAT is working on pearl millet as it can set seeds even at 42oC and with gene sequencing of pearl millet, the mechanism of heat and drought resistance can be understood and can be used to increase yield and to produce heat and drought resistant varieties not only in pearl millet but also in rice and wheat by gene editing. Pigeon-pea which is resistant to Asian soyabean rust can be used in soybean to create Asian soybean rust varieties. In chickpea, 430 lines have been sequenced for high yield under drought and heat stress. With sequencing data and trait data linkages mapping and association mapping can be done. Genetic mapping (also called linkage mapping) can be confirmatory that a disease can be transmitted from the parent to the child through one or more genes. Various genomic and crop breeding techniques — marker-assisted selection, genomic selection, gene editing and speed breeding—have promised enhanced crop performance. Genetically modified crops varieties — Geletu a drought resistant chickpea , Pusa chickpea, Super Annigeri 1 is fusarium resistant, Pusa Chickpea Manav if enhanced fusarium resistant variety and gives 28 per cent higher yield, improved HHB 67 pearl Millet hybrid and fortified ground nut variety Girna 4 &5 were produced. Molecular breeding varieties in wheat are: MACS 4048, HI 8737 and Pusa Tejas. Many molecular breeding varieties resistant to diseases such as Pusa Basmati-1, PB1609 and Pusa 1592.