 In addition, 5 trainings for trainers were organized for 63 in-service extension personnel. The NRC also organized one farmwomen fair with 300 rural women, where the women-specific technologies were demonstrated. In addition, the scientists of the centre participated in 3 radio and TV talks, published 6 popular articles and delivered 3 popular lectures. At sub-centre of NRCWA, under the project on ‘Reducing drudgery of women in agricultural operations through use of improved equipment’, experiments were conducted for reducing the drudgery of women by using groundnut decorticator, tubular-maize sheller and seed-treatment drum. HOME SCIENCE Development of human capital of rural women by bringing about changes in their capabilities and capacities is essential for keeping a balance between micro and macro farm production and consumption systems. For this, the five components of Home Science are exploring the temporal dimensions of realities of rural life in different agro-ecological conditions to accord rational and comprehensive and technical inputs towards an integrated improvement in quality of life of rural families. The multiple thrust of the project thereby, helps to recognize and acknowledge the Value added products using natural dyes have been developed Training on tomato-seed extraction for a Self-Help Group Heart-rate measurement of a farm woman operating a seed-treatment drum at sub-centre of NRCWA (right); Harvesting of mushroom by trained women of a Self-Help Group (extreme right) WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE 179 priorities of rural families for which each component is making intensive efforts to develop and disseminate need-based women-friendly technologies for its use within an ecosystem. Nutritional Security for human health in agrarian ecosystem Iodine deficiency results from geological rather than social and economic conditions. The problem is aggravated by environmental factors such as accelerated deforestation and soil erosion. Unlike other micronutrients it does not occur in specific food, rather it is present in soil and is imbibed through food grown on that soil. Hence, analysis of food samples from different agro climatic zones available in urban markets and also farmers grown samples provide an estimate of iodine content based on which long term sustainable strategies could be planned to ensure that iodine reaches the entire population and is ingested on a regular basis. Awareness among population could be created to consume foods containing higher iodine so that no more cretins will be born, no more babies will suffer from retarded mental and physical development attributed to iodine deficiency. Estimation of iodine in food samples was done based on the methodology of G. Anmont and J.C. Tressol (1986). The Study highlighted l Large variation in iodine content was found in samples from each food group. l Significant difference with respect to iodine content in food samples from different selected zones were found.