 Promotion of Power weeder, Fruit harvester for drudgery reduction in Upla-taknor, Arakot and Jakhol cluster. 2. Promotion of small hand tools like Secateurs, serrated sickle, hand wheel hoe and fork for drudgery reduction of farm women in all the clusters. Adoption of efficient irrigation techniques 1. Micro Irrigation (Drip and Sprinkler Irrigation) where water is available, 2. Drip Irrigation in integration with water harvesting structure where irrigation water is not available 3. Green House Cultivation for Vegetables Management of soil health 1. Popularization of soil testing in intensive mode and distribution of soil health cards to farmers for judicious use of fertilizers. 2. Adoption of well decomposed FYM and other compost. Adoption of cluster approach for holistic development 1. Need to introduce new walnut, apricot, apple varieties with appropriate pollinizer variety especially in Joshimath block. 2. Promotion of production of vegetable pea, and French Bean in different cluster villages of Mirg, Parsari, Badgaon, Jhelam, Pandukeshwar, Mana & Mallari of Joshimath block. 597 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 3. Promotion of Seed production of local Razma, Cabbage & Potato at Auli Jhelum, Pandukeshwar of Joshimath block. 4. Promotion of bulbous flower like tuberose, lilium, gladiolus and other temperate bulbous flowering plants 5. Promotion of strong specially designed protected cultivation structures which can withstand heavy snow fall for the cultivation of vegetables (Capsicum, Cabbage, Cauliflower, leafy veg. like lettuce, Kale, Coriander) in all the blocks 6. Organic cultivation of Amranth, Razma & Pea in different village cluster in Joshimath block. Strategy 2 : Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 1. Promotion of high milk yield breeds of cows Jersey, Red Sindhi and H.F, and goats (Gaddi, Chigu, Changthagi) and Sheep breed (Gaddi, Bhakarwal, Gurej, Kashmir Merino) in high alltitue areas of Auli, Niti, Mana, Kailashpur and Mirg area of Joshimath Block. 2. Establishment of milk processing plant at Joshimath block. 3. Promotion of Urea, Molasses, and Mineral mixer blocks at Nyaypanchayat level. 4. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/ rivulets with Mahaseer and trout at Joshimath block. Strategy 3 : Integrated Farming system Following Integrated farming system model may be developed: 1. Protected cultivation+ Composting+Goatry/backyard poultry/Dairy 2. Fodder production+ Mini dairy+Composting+ Protected cultivation 3. Seed production (Potato, Radish, Cabbage, Pea and Rajma Cropping system Rajma/Potato/Pea/Cabbage/Radish/Leafy vegetables Horticulture Apple/Apricot/Walnut (100 plants) Livestock Cow (01)/ sheep(50 )/Goat (50) + Backyard Poultry (100) Others Vermi-composting (20m2) Strategy 4 : Reducing post harvest losses and value addition Establishment of mini fruit grading plant for Apple, Walnut and Apricot at Joshimath block Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz.