 The model is being used to forecast appearance of late blight across agro-ecologies and accordingly agro-advisories are being issued to respective regions using electronic and print media thereby containing the losses Indian Agriculture after Independence 212 caused by late blight by forewarning the farmers and reducing fungicide load by applying fungicides judiciously. Computer based forecasting system has also been developed for rice blast, grape downy mildew, Karnal bunt of wheat, apple scab, Marssonina blotch and many important plant diseases in India. 2.4. Biological control Biological control has become an alternative strategy for the control of diseases, insect- pests and weeds to reduce the excessive use of agrochemicals and its health hazards. The list of biocontrol agents included in Central Insecticides Board (CIB) for registration are Bacillus subtilis, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Gliocladium spp., Trichoderma spp., Beauvaria bassiana, Metarrhizium anisopliae, Verticillum lecanii, granulosis viruses, nuclear polyhedrosis viruses (NPV), Nomurea rileyi, Hirsutella species, Verticillium chlamydosporium, Streptomyces griseoviridis, Streptomyces lydicus, Ampelomyces quisqualis, Candida oleophila, Fusarium oxysporum (non-pathogenic), Burkholderia cepacia, Coniotyrium minitans, Agrobactarium radiobacter strain 84, Agrobactarium tumefaciens, Pythium oligandrum, Erwinia amylovora (harpin protein), Phlebia gigantean, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Penicilliuim islanidicum (for groundnut), Alcaligenes spp., Chaetomium globosum, Aspergillus niger – strain AN27, VAM fungi, Myrothecium verrucaria, Photorhabdus luminescences akhurustii strain K-1, Serratia marcescens GPS 5 and Piriformospora indica etc. However, the market share of the microorganisms is very -low and currently biopesticides occupy about 4% of the total pesticide market share in India. For increasing the use of biocontrol agents by farmers, the identified bottlenecks related to quality needs to be overcome them. Trichoderma harzianum based bio-formulation Pusa 5 SD and Chaetomium globosum based bioformulated product have been developed and proved effective against several plant pathogens. 2.5. Biopesticides, PGPRs and novel molecules Biopesticide formulation based on bacteria, fungi, viruses, nematodes, protozoa etc. are microbial pesticides used for biological control of plant diseases. Nine microbes, namely Bacillus subtilis, Gliocladium spp., Trichoderma spp., Pseudomonas fluorescens, Beauvaria bassiana, Metarrhizium anisopliae, Verticillium lecanii, granulosis viruses and nuclear polyhedral viruses (NPV) have been included in a schedule vide as an amendment in Insecticides Act, 1968 for the commercial production of biopesticide and published in the Gazette of India dated 26th March 1999. To date, 26 more microbes have been included in the schedule to the Insecticide Act 1968 for production of microbial biopesticides.