 Compared to coconut monocropping, adoption of multiple cropping and integrated farming system in coconut gardens fetches higher income and employment opportunities. Different models of coconut-based cropping/farming systems suitable for the north east region have been developed by ICAR-CPCRI and SAUs. However, adoption of such cropping/farming systems is very low due to various reasons. Hence, farmers are to be made aware about the advantages of adopting coconut-based cropping/farming systems and suitable interventions to promote the same are to be implemented. Community action for integrated pest and disease management Coconut growers of the region face difficulties due to the crop loss caused by incidence of pests like rhinoceros beetle, red palm weevil, eriophyid mite and white fly, disease like stem bleeding, etc. Though technologies for the integrated management of these pests and diseases are made available, their field level adoption is very low. Community approaches on a contiguous area basis are to be encouraged among the coconut growers to effectively adopt IPM/IDM practices to avoid crop loss. Removal of senile and unproductive coconut palms and replanting Large number of coconut palms in the existing coconut gardens are old, senile and with very low productivity which adversely affects coconut production in the region. Hence, it is suggested to remove such old and senile palms and replant with quality seedlings of improved varieties suitable for the region to enhance coconut productivity. Organic cultivation and branding Northeast has by default organic production system. The organic practices for coconut have already been standardized. The same may be adopted in Northeast and branding may be given as organic produce from Northeast. Promoting value addition Value addition through product diversification is a viable strategy suggested to enhance income from coconut farming. Large number of value-added products can be produced and marketed using coconut kernel, tender coconut, coconut water, shell, leaves and timber. However, due to various factors the level of value addition in coconut is abysmally low in the Northeastern states. Hence, appropriate interventions are to be formulated and implemented to promote coconut-based enterprises on production and marketing of value-added coconut products. FPOs in coconut sector can also be encouraged to take up such enterprises. Improvement in the general infrastructure for the development of farm sector and specific interventions in coconut sector as discussed above surely will usher in a bright future for coconut in the Northeast India. CONCLUSION The Northeast India has been the traditional grower of coconut. However, the non-adoption of improved technologies has kept the productivity at low level. Further, the effort for replacing the old senile gardens is impeded by lack of quality planning material.