 Modelling for food security monitoring (ICAR, MCNCFC, IMD, CCAFS). xx. Integrating genetic diversity, modern breeding and sustainable intensification agronomy for enhanced productivity and climate smart wheat systems in Punjab. xxi. Addressing the sustainability issues in North Western states of India. xxii. Enhancing system productivity and profitability of agriculture in eastern and central India. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 68 5. Way forward yy CRPs Phase II (WHEAT, MAIZE & CCAFS) fully integrated with NARES on issues of major importance for India in all collaborative researches through CGIAR site integration. yy Breeding for agronomically superior heat tolerant wheat will be a major priority. yy The number of materials phenotyped for the three rusts, in particular yellow rust and with resistance to terminal heat will be increased. For that effort, continuous support to the phenotyping in Mexico at Cd Obregon is extremely important as it directly increases the number of lines that are relevant for testing in South Asia. yy In view of wheat blast reported from Bangladesh, special attention will be given to this disease. Shuttling germplasm to Latin America for finding suitable resistance has already been initiated. yy Harnessing genotype x environment x management (G x E x M) interactions for breaking yield barriers. yy Sustainable intensification of wheat and maize based systems (irrigated and rainfed) with focus on improving water and nutrient use efficiency while minimizing environmental foot prints. yy Scale appropriate smart farm mechanization for smallholder conservation agriculture, precision farming and climate smart agriculture. yy ICAR institutes and SAUs will be invited to become partners IMTA. AICRP will continue to be partner with CIMMYT in IMIC-Asia II. yy Apart from continued development and sharing of trait donors, strategic research towards understanding the basis of resistance to major diseases of maize in the region will be taken up in close collaboration with SAUs. yy System intensification will be speeded up in Indo -Gangetic plains with focus on increasing nutrient and water use efficiency. yy Developing improved technologies, practices, institutions and policy to enhance resilience to climate variability and climate change. yy Capacity development of young researchers, extension workers and entrepreneurs in all disciplines of CIMMYT. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 69 International Potato Centre (CIP) is non-profit international agricultural research organization with a global mandate to conduct research on genetic resources of potatoes, sweet potatoes, and other Andean roots and tubers, crop genetic enhancement and improvement, integrated crop management and sustainable management of natural resources.