 Marker assisted stacking of yellow mosaic disease resistance, null kunitz trypsin inhibitor, null lipoxygenase-2 genes, and broadening the genetic base of soybean: Based on the multilocation evaluation of 322 germplasm accessions and zonal check varieties, diverse parents were identified for hybridization programme under AICRP on soybean. For different agroclimatic zones, hybridizations between the adapted variety of the zone and the diverse germplasm identified based on the D2 analysis were conducted. A set of 250 inter- specific RILs of soybean (F10) developed at IARI, New Delhi, were grown during kharif 2022. Data for all the DUS characters including yield and resistance to YMD were collected from all the lines. Wide variations were observed among the RILs for the traits studied. Several lines with a higher number of pods per plant, yield and resistance to yellow mosaic virus have been identified for crossing. Ten (10) accessions of landrace (Glycine max) and 2 accessions of wild-type soybean (Glycine soja) including 4 HYVs were collected and multiplied. About 200 F1 seeds for various cross combinations were harvested and grown. Hybridity testing confirmed 90 true F1 plants. Development of sustainable management tools for the invasive pest, fall armyworm Spodoptera frugiperda in maize: A survey was done for the identification of genomic regions for FAW resistance, a parental polymorphism was done using 531 sequence- tagged microsatellites (STMS) markers between DMRE63 and BML6 and it was found that 155 (29.2%) markers were polymorphic, and out of 155 markers, 23 STMS markers could differentiate resistant and susceptible bulks against FAW and these markers were used for the screening of the 217 F2:3 (DMRE63 × BML6) mapping population developed. Genotyping of the F2 mapping population with all the identified putative markers was completed. To identify the genomic regions in the association mapping population, 300 lines were subjected to phenotypic screening as well as GBS sequencing. Association analysis of both the data led to the identification of 9 SNPs which are significantly linked to FAW resistance. RNAi-mediated resistance to FAW was explored using the genes, SfCOPα, SfCOPβ, SfCHSB, and SfGST as RNAi targets, as they play a critical role in S. frugiperda growth and development. The target genes’ efficacy was tested in planta via soaking maize leaves in various dsRNAs solutions. The dsRNA-soaked maize leaves resist S. Heterologous expression of TAG-Lipase gene in E. coli system for the purification of recombinant protein. a) pMal c5X vector; b) induction of E. coli cells using IPTG; c) induced MBP with lipase protein; d) purified recombinant lipase protein. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 154 frugiperda feeding and enhance cannibalism in the larvae and thus, the novel target genes were identified as biopesticides for S. frugiperda management via a non-transgenic approach.