 The participation of traders in e-tendering system depends on type of licence held by the trader or commission agent, computer knowledge, quantity traded, traders’ perceptions on the unified market platform. Further, marketing through e-tendering took less time (2.6 hr) as compared to manual tender and open auction where average transaction time was 4-4.50 hr. As per farmers’ perception, increased market competition and transparency were the most important attributes of the e-tendering system. The traders perceived, time saving as the major attribute of the e- tendering system. Majority of the traders (94%) also felt that the system has limited scope for price manipulation. Women in livestock production and children’s nutrition The role of livestock in improving women’s income and bargaining power in intra-household resource allocation and its effects on children’s nutritional status were examined. Both men and women participated in animal husbandry, but it was women particularly the illiterate ones who were more engaged in animal husbandry. On an average, with an additional illiterate female worker, a household realized more than 7% higher income from livestock activities, whereas the effect of male worker was not significant. Further, there was a negative relationship between livestock income and land size, implying livestock were relatively a more important income source for small landholders. The effects of ownership of different livestock species on children’s nutritional outcomes were mixed across age- Organic manure production: A source of livelihood for women groups Eight unemployed women from Mazhuvanoor Grama Panchayath, district Ernakulam, Kerala identified by Kudumbashree Mission, a Government of Kerala women-empowering project, were selected to venture into organic manure production and marketing. They were registered under Joint Liability Group (JLG) and imparted rigorous hands-on-training on formulation of organic inputs, labelling, packing and packaging. Lessons on business plan and marketing strategies were also imparted. ICAR-CMFRI, KVK facilitated them in obtaining various mandatory licences and test marketing of their products. A business entity Jeeva Kudumbashree Micro Enterprise was inaugurated at Mangalathunada, Airapuram, district Ernakulam. Products from the venture are being marketed under Kudumbashree brand which includes neem cake, neem oil, grow bags, grow bag mixture, sea fish extract, panchagavya and dolomite-neem cake-groundnut cake mixture. With an initial investment of ` 4.5 lakh, they earned a profit of ` 1.05 lakh in two months. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 115 groups. Ownership of large ruminants improved nutritional status (in terms of weight) particularly of children between 2 and 5 years of age. The nutritional outcomes are affected by interplay of various factors such as child and household characteristics, etc.