 Keywords: Diabetics, Natural sweetener, Rebaudioside, Stevia, Stevioside S TEVIA (Stevia rebaudiana Bertoni) belonging to Asteraceae family is native to Paraguay region. The plant is extensively known for its sweetness and low-calorie due to diterpene steviol glycosides (SGs) present in its leaves. The major ones are stevioside and rebaudiosides, which are about 200-300 times sweeter than sugar. Stevia is grown under tropical and sub-tropical conditions. It is basically short- day plant, but long day-length is helpful for higher leaf yield. Relative humidity of 65-80% is suitable for proper growth and development. Stevia grows well in sandy loam soil with pH range of 5.0-7.5 and requires a warm and sunny weather. Soils should be well drained but with reasonable water holding capacity. Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Chhattisgarh and Maharashtra are the major stevia growing states in India. The global stevia market size grew from ` 61.65 billion in 2022 to ` 67.40 billion in 2023 at a compound annual growth rate of 9.9%. Indian Farming 73 (12): 19-22; December 2023 Package of practices Major cultivars Him Stevia: IHBT, Palampur has developed improved cultivar with higher proportion of rebaudioside-A (7.34%) compared with stevioside (5.78%) and total glycoside content of 14.49% on dry weight basis. CIM Madhu: Released by CIMAP, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh having good stevioside content (12.57%), rebaudioside content (5.80%), fresh leaf yield (133.77 q/ha) and dry leaf yield (43.05 q/ha). CIM Mithi: Released by CIMAP, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh having stevioside content of 12% and rebaudioside content of 4%. Kodaikanal Local, Pune Local, Zaheerabad Local, Indore Local, Hyderabad Local and Bidar Local are farmer’s field collections from respective places. Propagation and planting Stevia can be propagated by seeds, suckers, stem cuttings and tissue culture. Propagation through seeds is easy and economically more viable. However, there are morphological and chemical variations among the individual plants of seed raised populations. Clonal propagation through cuttings and tissue culture provides uniform quality of produce, but the cost of planting material is high. Nursery raising through seeds should be done in the month of January-March. However, it can be grown throughout the year under protected condition. Fertile seeds are dark coloured, while infertile ones are generally pale or clear coloured. Seeds can be sown in plastic trays, pots, wooden boxes or in raised nursery beds having a good mixture of organic manure, soil and sand. For the first five days after sowing, light irrigation should be given daily in the nursery beds, preferably during morning and evening hours and thereafter once a day for next five days. Seed germination takes place in 7-10 days. Two-month- old seedlings at 5-7 leaf stage with 10-15 cm height are suitable for transplanting.