 Topics like, instrument calibration & trouble shooting; analysis and robust modelling for wide soil variability in India and spectral data analysis using different approach (other than Random Forest) were covered, ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 29 yy A training on Spectroscopy and Data Analysis using Infrared (IR) spectral techniques was organized at Nairobi, Kenya. Participants had hands on training on the topics of integrating / predicting soil quality from spectroscopic data; developed models that explain the soil parameters with great degree of reliability, yy A National Symposium on “Agroforestry for environmental challenges, sustainable land use, biodiversity conservation and rural livelihood options” was jointly organized with CAFRI, where more than 200 delegates participated. The symposium successfully deliberated on agroforestry systems for climate resilient agriculture; agroforestry for food security & rural livelihood options; bio-resource & energy management; and socio-economic and policy issues in agroforestry, and yy An International Training on Ecosystem Services and Carbon Sequestration by Agroforestry: Concept, Theory and Practice was organized at ICAR-CAFRI, where thirty four scientists from CAFRI, Indian Grassland and Fodder Research Institute, Indian Institute Soil and Water Conservation and state govt. officials participated where the topics of ecosystem structure, function, service, human benefits and value derived were covered. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome Formulation and implementation of the agroforestry policy, and accelerated promotion of agroforestry through the mission has huge socio-economic impacts. Change in policy is creating favourable atmosphere for farmers to grow trees of their choice to get the desired benefits, and also increasing the much required tree cover by the country. There is a gap of about 6% tree covers as compared to the required 24%. Further, Government of India through INDCs (Intended Nationally Determined Contributions) has committed for restoring/ new tree plantations in 5 million ha. Both the mission and the policy are highly contributing towards the socio-economic and environmental needs of the country. These initiatives of the Government where ICRAF is closely associated are also increasing the impact of India in the region. Bangladesh and Nepal, both are following India’s model and success to develop their own policies to enhance the adoption of agroforestry. Under rehabilitation of degraded lands through agroforestry, at pilot sites in Bhilwara and Udaipur districts, Rajasthan, the villagers had constructed 64160 running meters of graded bunds and contours within and outside the village. The villagers cooperatively managed blocks of land ranging from 30 to 50 ha and planted tree species, which included bamboo, sisso, acacia and amla in the area along with fodder legumes (stylo) and grasses (Cenchrus sp).