 It is believed that agriculture started over 12 thousand years ago, with women at the forefront of selection and domestication of over 5000 plant species to suit different ecological, climatic, and cultural conditions as well as to meet diverse needs for food, medicines, and indeed incomes”. With modernization and mechanization in agriculture, monoculture become more extensive resulting in continuously reducing the number of cultivated crop varieties as well as crop species. While in the past several hundred plant species were grown for food, feed, and fiber, in recent years, the focus has narrowed to a few dozen crops only, of which wheat, rice, maize, and potato providing ~50% of the calories. Many traditional crops are out of cultivation, neglected, or have become orphans and at high risk of extinction. One of the goals for all germplasm resource centers is to maintain diversity of species to ensure a larger food basket so that malnutrition can be better dealt with. Gandhian agriculture, in fact, is grounded in the belief in non-violence to nature. Dr. Swaminathan highlighted this in his 1973 Sardar Patel Lectures titled “Our Agricultural Future”. Dr. Swaminathan (2017) stated, “For the purpose of promoting environmentally sustainable technology, I advocated Gandhian agriculture where productivity 61 can be enhanced without harm to the environment. Based on the most advanced principles of biological science, we can probably claim to have developed a Gandhian agriculture, because this would be an agriculture where Gandhian concepts become manifested in the form of an advanced rural economy, benefiting all sections of the community. Also, this will be an agriculture which enriches and not harms the environment”. In today’s scenario, where issues like climate change, environmental pollution, social inequality, and malnutrition became critical, we need to propagate this message. The 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is the most appropriate occasion to initiate and intensify the efforts towards sustainability. 2. Gandhiji’s thoughts on Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Rural Development As we observe the 150th Birth anniversary of the Father of our Nation, Mahatma Gandhi, our feelings turn to him, who was credibly the greatest ‘environmentalist’ of all times. Gandhiji knew that unless man and nature live harmoniously and unless man stopped manipulating nature, he would certainly step on the path of devastation. In his own way, Mahatma Gandhi talked about preservation and sustainability. His outlook of non-violence encompassed non- violence to nature as much as to man. The ecological concern was nominal at the time of Mahatma Gandhi, but his ideas on Village Swaraj, decentralization, Swadeshi, Sarvodya, and many similar ideas, made him a great advocate of environmentalism. The Father of our nation is often considered as a man with an in-depth ecological perspective.