 CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 87 PCR could detect the virus up to 10-3 dilution indicating that RPA is 100 times more sensitive than PCR. RPA was further simplified using crude extract as template which could detect the virus up to 10-4 dilution. Studies on the effect of Acquisition Access Period (AAP) and Inoculation Access Period (IAP) on transmission of ToLCNDV-potato by Bemisia tabaci (Asia II5) revealed that at least 30 min period for acquisition access and inoculation access are needed to transmit the virus. Management of taro leaf blight disease: Mancozeb + Metalaxyl M 0.1% or Copper hydroxide 0.2% were found effective in minimising the taro leaf blight disease incidence at Kalyani, Jorhat, Ranchi, Dapoli, Jagdalpur, Palampur, Dholi, Rajendranagar, Coimbatore and Port Blair centres based on preliminary trials. Characterization of biocontrol agents effective against fungal pathogens: Four Trichoderma asperellum isolates, effective against all major fungal pathogens of tropical tuber crops, viz. Sclerotium causing anthracnose in greater yam have significant contributions on growth promotion activities in test plants, cowpea. The combination of seed treatment and spraying was more effective. Based on pot trial evaluation, B. licheniformis was selected for field trial evaluation against greater yam anthracnose. Minimum disease intensity was in combined treatment (Soil treatment + Spraying treatment) of Bacillus licheniformis. Management of leaf spot (Colletotrichum capsici) and leaf blotch (Taphrina maculans) in turmeric: It comprises of rhizome treatment with propiconazole (0.1%) and foliar spray of propiconazole (0.1%) which significantly mitigated the leaf spot and leaf blotch diseases. Further, the presence of fungicide residue was below the detectable limit (BDL) in the turmeric rhizomes. Management of coriander powdery mildew (Erysiphe polygoni): The foliar spray of propiconazole (0.1%) at the initiation of the disease and second at 15 days after first spray mitigated the powdery-mildew disease (5.22 PDI) as against the control (86.37 PDI) with fungicide residue below the detectable limit. Management of stem gall in coriander: It comprised of foliar spray @ 219.75 g a.i./ha at 45, 60 and 75 days after sowing with a mix formulation of azoxystrobin (11% SC) + tebuconazole (18.3% SC) and recorded maximum incremental benefit cost ratio (IBCR) of 1:2.91 with 63.52% decrease in stem gall disease of coriander and 45.74% yield increase over control. Diagnostic kit (DsMV ELISA KIT) against Dasheen mosaic virus A diagnostic kit (DsMV ELISA KIT) against Dasheen mosaic virus developed from the DsMV polyclonal antibody obtained after immunization of two New Zealand white rabbits against Dasheen mosaic virus protein (DsMV-IgG) and validated with more than 250 elephant foot yam leaf samples from different locations.