 Nearly 85 percent of cluster farmers were registered under PGS certiﬁcation under the PKVY scheme. It is worth mentioning that 52 percent of the total registered farmers were small land-owning farmers. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 8 of 22 Figure 4. Characteristics of clusters, across agriculture development status and RCs, in 2017. 3.3. Procedures for Certiﬁcation Under PGS certiﬁcation, speciﬁc mandatory procedures and milestones must be completed for certiﬁcation and release of matching grants. Data from Figure 5 show that about 96 percent of the clusters prepared the annual action plan, and they even succeeded in executing organic production in nearly all the clusters. Most of the clusters have also appointed technical staff and data entry operators to oversee all the activities and for proper documentation for certiﬁcation. The production of organic crops started in 95 percent of the clusters. Moreover, 83 percent of the clusters already had PGS certiﬁcation, 78 percent had made efforts to establish packaging and labelling facilities, and 80 percent had established marketing facilities. Generally, the performance was better in clusters located in less- developed states and managed by NGO-RCs than their counterparts. Less-developed states are mostly hilly, rainfed and remote, where the use of chemical fertilizers and yields is low and the inherent potential for organic agriculture is high. Interestingly, only 28% of the farmers knew about the certiﬁcation process despite 83% of the clusters being certiﬁed, as most of the certiﬁcation procedures were handled by the resource person appointed by the RCs rather than the farmers themselves. This bottleneck must be removed through awareness creation and involving farmers in the process. Figure 5. Various activities conducted and achieved by clusters under PKVY (% of clusters) in 2017. Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 9 of 22 3.4. Facilities and Infrastructure at the Cluster Level More than 95 percent of the clusters had organic input production plants (manufactur- ing units), and over 92 percent of the clusters had biological nitrogen harvest plantations (Gliricidia sp., Sesbania sp. and Calliandra sp.) either on wastelands or on farmers’ own or community lands. About 65 percent had botanical extraction production units. How- ever, there was a low performance in producing phosphate-rich organic manure, running custom hiring center services and having walk-in tunnels for horticulture crops, cattle sheds and indigenous animals (Rashtriya Gokul Mission’ is a focused project under the National Programme for Bovine Breeding and Dairy Development. The aims of the mis- sion are to conserve and develop indigenous breeds in a focused and scientiﬁc manner, Minister added). As they are against the community activities, cluster-level infrastructure facilities performed much better in terms of developed states and clusters managed by Government-RCs than their counterparts (Figure 6). Figure 6.