41 million tonnes during 2016-17, with 15-folds increase since independence. The marked shift from capture from open-waters to controlled farming in ponds/tanks in particular, with the later showing transformation to an organised industry, has virtually placed the sector in the forefront of agricultural growth. With aquaculture production sharing about 60% of the total fish produce at present, the sector is further expected to grow at similar pace in coming years too with large-scale utilization of coastal waters for mariculture and inland saline areas for brackishwater shrimp farming. The country’s aquaculture production today is largely confined to the three Indian major carps, followed by three exotic carp species and pangas–an exotic large catfish in freshwater and shrimps in brackishwater, together contributing over 95% of aquaculture share. Further, considering the increasing demand of alternative species for making the farming practice more remunerative, the farming in coming days is likely to include diversified fish species spectrum in all sectors. It is evident from the catch data of the country that the production of several high valued food fishes from open waters have been declining severely, making such species out of reach of the common men. On the contrary, the price of carps by virtue of greater availability is almost constant for last several years. With the production cost becoming dearer, both farming of carps and pangus has become non-attractive for many. Therefore, it is necessary that our focus must be oriented towards new fish and shellfish species which can provide higher income to the farmers and also greater choice for the consumers. Message Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Considering all the above facts, I sincerely believe that the book entitled “ICAR Technologies for Breeding and Seed Production of Finfishes and Shellfishes” containing technology resumes of over 60 finfish and shellfish species, would definitely help the farmers and entrepreneurs in identifying and adopting new species to their present aquaculture practices. I, on my own behalf and the Council, compliment the contributors, and the directors of the fisheries research institutes of ICAR for their efforts in bringing out this important publication at a time when Hon’ble Prime Minister of India has called for Blue revolution in the Country and also Doubling Farmers’ Income by 2022. (T. Mohapatra) 4th July, 2019 The pride of India as the second largest aquaculture producer may be linked to the development of the technology of induced breeding of Indian major carps in 1957 at the then Pond Culture Division of the Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute at Cuttack, Odisha.