 Agenda 6.38: Timely Release of Grant: RAU, Pusa ICAR grant should be released once in a year preferably in first quarter of the financial year for effective utilization. It was noted. Agenda 6.39: Establishment of ATIC in RVSKVV, Gwalior RVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. In the modern era of HI-tech agriculture, Agro-technology Information Centers (ATICs) have become the prime need for dissemination of recent developments in agriculture. Therefore, those SAUs who 16 have not received ATIC in X five year plan be provided to them in XII plan with full financial support on priority basis. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 6.40: Development of model agriculture colleges SKRAU, Bikaner mentioned that to meet the growing demand of farm products, there is need of second green revolution to take place, which has been accepted at the highest policy making bodies. To meet this objective, there is requirement of expending quality agricultural education and research. It is therefore, proposed that model agriculture colleges be developed throughout the country- at least in each state, fully funded by ICAR. This will help in developing competitive environment for agricultural education and research. SKN College of Agriculture, Jobner being the oldest institution of agricultural education in the state, may be considered for developing this into a model agriculture college in Rajasthan state. It was noted for consideration in XII Plan. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 6.41: Support for Higher Education SKUAST, Jammu presented the agenda.  J&K State has not witnessed the complete impact of green revolution. To overcome this deficiency SKUAST-Jammu being only eleven years old needs support from ICAR for sending/ deputing faculty for their exposure and dual degrees from abroad.  The infrastructure and staff available in SKUAST-J can be successfully engaged for awarding degrees to foreign students. The points were noted. Agenda 6.42: Strengthening of TNAU Agri Tech Portal (http://agritech.tnau.ac.in) TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda. The estimated cost for the Agri Tech Portal comes to 200 lakhs. The request to share the cost on 50:50 basis between state and ICAR was requested. The point was noted. Agenda 6.43: Strengthening of Toxicology Laboratory TNAU, Coimbatore emphasised on extending the facility of the toxicology laboratory to undertake research on toxicological data generation for registration of agrochemicals in the Central Insecticide Board (CIB). Agenda 6.44: Up-scaling IT infrastructure in SAUs TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda which was noted. Agenda 6.45: Expansion of Girls Hostels in all teaching campuses UAS, Bangalore informed that the admission of Girl students to various undergraduate and postgraduate programs in the UASB has more than doubled during the period 2006-07 to 2010-11. The number of girl students in undergraduate programs has increased from 453 in 2006-07 to 975 in 2010-11.