 Production of high value, low volume value added products with appropriate marketing infrastructure and linkages are necessary tools to ensure higher returns anticipated from conversion to organic farming or else the movement may not gather the desired momentum. Organic horticulture with all the good intentions will be self-sustainable only when it becomes farmer-driven. For further interaction, please write to: 1Former Principal Scientist and Joint Director, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Sikkim Centre, Tadong, Gangtok, Sikkim 2Assistant Director General (Horticulture), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-II, Pusa, New Delhi-110 012 Corresponding author Email id: ravisikkim@gmail.com November–December 2023 15 Research Horticulture Development under Technology Mission in Northeastern States India has maintained its second rank in the global production of fruits and vegetables, next only to China. Though the production of food grains and Horticultural produce are not meaningfully comparable due to fundamental differences in the nature of their farming, characteristics of produce, nature of land requirements, and most importantly, their nutritional purpose and value, it has come to light that horticultural farming is more productive and gainful. The special attention given to the sector, especially after the introduction of the Horticulture Mission for North East and Himalayan States (HMNEH) and the National Horticulture Mission (NHM) in the 11th Plan, has resulted in bumper production of horticulture produce in India and Northeast region. H ORTICULTURE has emerged as one of the potential agriculture enterprises in accelerating the growth of the economy. Its role in the country’s nutritional security, poverty alleviation and employment generation programmes is becoming increasingly important. It offers not only a wide range of options to the farmers for crop diversification, but also provides ample scope for sustaining large number of Agro industries which generate huge employment opportunities. India is currently producing 350 million tonnes of horticulture produce from an area of 28.10 million ha, which has surpassed the estimated food grain production of 316.06 million tonnes. As a result of changing dietary patterns, the composition of agricultural production has diversified over the years. The area under horticulture crops has grown from 18.44 million ha in 2004-05 to 28.10 million ha in 2022-23 while the productivity has increased from 9.05 tonne per ha in 2004-05 to 12.19 tonne per ha in 2022-23. Horticulture Scenario i n No r t h e a s t e r n States The Northeastern Region comprise eight States, viz., Arunachal P r a d e s h , A s s a m , Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim, and Tripura have 7.7% of the total geographical area of the country and a population of 51 million. In Northeast, there can be no single strategy as crops, soil, food habits, cultural practices and economic systems are extremely diverse.