 On completion of the tenure, he will return to a matching position in research work which may be in any area or any Institute depend- ing on the Council's needs. 22. Other Conditions of Service The conditions of service as members of the Service in respect of matters such as classification, control and appeal etc. for which no provision is made in these rules shall be the same as are applicable from time to time to the employees of the Council. NOTE: 1. There will be no inter-se-seniority among the scientists of the Service for the purpose of promotion. 2. For the purpose of first screening under Rule 19 (3) above, entire period of service in the grade including the service rendered in the pre-revised scale of pay shall be counted. 22-A. A member of the service appointed to a scientific post under the Council on a regular basis after 31-3-1960 will be eligible to add to his service qualifying for superannuation pension (but not for any other class of pension) the actual period not exceeding one-fourth of the length of the service or the actual period by which his age at the time of recruitment exceeded 25 years or a period of 5 years, which- ever is less, on fulfilment of the conditions prescribed in Rule 30 of of the CCS (Pension) Rules, 1972 as amended from time to time. 22-B. A scientist who is recruited at the age of 35 years or more may, with- in a period of three months from the date of his appointment, elect to forego his right to pension whereupon he will be eligible to sub- scribe to a Contributory Provident Fund. [No 8-7/1977-Per IV dt 9-5-1979] 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 17 23. Relaxation The Controlling Authority may relax the provisions of these rules to such an extent as may be necessary to ensure satisfactory working or for removing inequitable results. 24. Interpretation If any question of interpretation of these rules arises, it shall be decided by the President of the Council. 18 ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE SCHEDULE 1 (See Rule 2) COUNCIL'S CANDIDATES The Council's candidates to be considered for initial constitution of the cadre shall be those who are employed on the date of sanction of the Service i.e. 1-10-75 : (i) on regular basis; (ii) in supernumerary posts; or (iii) on notiorial foreign service provided they opt for Council's service within the time limit that may be prescribed by the Council for this purpose. However, they will be considered for induction into the service with effect from the date(s) their options become effective; and further if they satisfy the following requirements :— (1) Minimum Qualification (a) Master's degree or equivalent in any branch of Agriculture, Animal Sciences including Fisheries, Forestry, General Science, Home Science, Social Sciences, Statistics or Mathematics; OR (b) Bachelor's degree in any branch of Engineering or Technology.