 variety check 1 check 2 check 3 released var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 check 4 Pest 1 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Pest 2 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Pest 3 Natural 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Artificial 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 107 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Table 6. Data on the other important characters Name of the proposed variety/hybrid: Adaptability zone: Production conditions: Item Proposed National Zonal Local Latest Qual. Qual. Qual. variety check 1 check 2 check 3 release var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 check 4 1. Plant height 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 2. Days to flowering 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 3. Days to maturity 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 4. 1,000-grain weight 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 5. Lodging 1st year 2nd year 3rd year 6. Others 1st year 2nd year 3rd year Table 5. Data on the quality characteristics Quality Item Proposed National Zonal Local Latest released Qual. Qual. Qual. characteristics variety check 1 check 2 check 3 check 4 var. 1 var. 2 var. 3 Parameter -1 Parameter -2 Parameter -3 Parameter -4 Note : Specify the parameters under first column at 1-4 108 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Guidelines for Filling-up Proforma for Submission of the Proposal for Release of Crop Varieties/Hybrids to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards Notification and Release of Varieties 1. Name of the crop and the species The name given to the variety may be indicative of crop name, institute name/code, and number, if any. 2. Name of the variety under which tested This should include the name under which the variety was tested in the coordinated trials. 3. Proposed name of the variety This should include the name of the variety that is proposed for its commercial use as per the existing guidelines. 4. Sponsoring institute This should include the name of the institute/organization that sponsors the variety 5. Institution or agency responsible for developing variety (with full address) Institute or organization where the variety has been developed along with the full address 6. Name of the person who helped in the development of the variety Only those workers should be included who have contributed in the development of the variety/ hybrid. The co-workers can be grouped in 2 categories as the ‘Developer’ and as the ‘Collaborator’. The co-worker should be associated with the project (from which cultivar has been developed) for a period of minimum of 2 years. The proposal should be signed by each of the co-worker and validated by the Head of the Organization. 7. Parentage (with details of pedigree including the source from which variety/inbred/ A, B and R lines of the hybrid has been developed) This should essentially include the details of the base population/ source of the material used for developing the variety/parental lines of the hybrid.