 To identify identical method of vinegar preparation, focused group interview was conducted. Fermentation by boiling emerged as another method of vinegar preparation. Both the methods (fermentation through sun-drying and boiling) were then compared. Twenty persons were interviewed.   FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Matrix table was prepared on the ground through PRA exercise. The parameters or factors included in the study are given in Table 1. Experiment The experimental methods followed for validation were both organoleptic test, and laboratory method for ingredient analysis. The organoleptic evaluation was conducted in 10 replications through sensory evaluation method. The three methods of preparation of the beverage, i.e. vinegar fermented by boiling, vinegar fermented by sun drying and vinegar fermented by chemical, were prepared and tested organoleptically by a panel of 10 judges selected from the village as well as scientists of the university. The parameters included were colour, appearance, aroma, taste and overall acceptability. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study An attempt was made to assess two methods of vinegar preparation by use of PRA tools. The results given in Table 1 reveal that vinegar fermented by boiling is superior to that fermented by sun-drying. Vinegar fermented by boiling has the advantage of less time taken in its preparation, less labour requirement, durability of the product, and efficacy as medicine. On the contrary, vinegar fermented by sun-drying was f ound superior to that fermented by boiling, in terms of minimum materials used in preparation and cost effectiveness. Experiment Keeping in view the nutritive and therapeutic value, vinegar of jamun was prepared by two different processing techniques. Their organoleptic acceptability in respect of colour, appearance, aroma, taste and overall acceptability was judged by a panel of 10 judges using 9–point Hedonic Rating Scale. The data on sensory evaluation are presented in Table 2. The mean scores for orgnoleptic characteristics of vinegar fermented by boiling and that by sun- drying were organoleptically tested. Vinegar Table 1. Matrix scoring for comparing vinegar of jamun fermented by sun-drying and fermented by boiling Criterion Vinegar (fermented by sun-drying)Vinegar (fermented by boiling) Minimum days in preparation 78 100 Materials used in preparation 98 78 Minimum labour in preparation 90 96 Simplicity of technology 95 92 Durability of products 70 98 Availability of raw materials 78 72 Cost effectiveness 82 78 Efficacy as medicine 86 90 Table 2. Sensory evaluation of vinegar fermented by boiling, sun-drying and chemical Product Colour Appearance Aroma Taste Overall acceptability Control sample (use of chemical) 7 7 6 6 6.5 Test sample (formented by boiling) 6 6 8 8 7.0 Test sample (formented by sundrying) 7 6 7 6 6.5  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Table 3.