 In Agricultural Engineering and Technology, following implements have been developed: rotavator attachment for self-propelled reaper, power-tiller operated wetland leveler, tractor-mounted turmeric digger, tractor-mounted hydraulically-operated hoist (for harvesting mango, guava, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 6 03-004-01.p65\6\(28.02.03\06.03.03) sapota and coconut etc.) and tractor-operated straw chopper-cum-spreader (to solve the problem of rice-straw management). A 4-row manually operated rice-seeder has been refined and was found to be 70.8% labour, 87.11% energy and 83.67% cost-effective in seeding of sprouted rice compared to mechanized transplanting of seedlings. Prototype feasibility testing of tractor-mounted rotavator, pulverizing roller attachment and zero-till drill, ANGRAU hydrotiller, animal-drawn puddler (for NEH region), light- weight power-weeder for interculture and self-propelled vertical conveyor-reaper was carried out, and has shown promising results. In post-harvest engineering and technology, ‘okara’, a by-product of soymilk has been used for preparing high- fibre nutritious soy-cereals based snacks, and a technology has also been standardized for jaggery-chocolate production. Complete or partial substitution of conventional wet chemical process by the development of plasma treatment in preparation of grey-cotton fabric for dyeing; and 25% reduction in pollution load and 30% saving in energy with the new biochemical scouring technique, when coupled with the existing hand-processing unit, are the highlights in cotton technology. Work under jute technology led to the development of a novel method for simultaneous alkali treatment and bleaching of jute. Major finding in lac technology is the development of sustainable technology for quality brood and sticklac production on ber. In energy in agriculture, major developments are: a family- size, solid state anaerobic digester for agro-residues; biogas plant of 6 m3 capacity (floating dome-type, suitable for high water-table regions), groundnut shell-based Open Core Down Draft Gasifier, and simple electronic temperature controller for use on natural convection solar dryer. Under irrigation and drainage, an underground irrigation grid system has been designed and installed at the CIAE Farm, Bhopal. A portable automatic multi-outlet irrigation system was designed to apply water to furrows. Surface drains at 15–20 m spacing were found sufficient to remove excess run-off water from soybean fields in Vertisols. Under Agricultural Human Resource Development, financial support was given to the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) for development of under-graduate (UG) and post-graduate (PG) programmes to expand, develop and improve quality, relevance and utility in agricultural education and training, and for instructional farm development; computerization and internet facilities were given under the capacity development programme of the ICAR.