 In addition, there are some special rules relating to the growth of embryos and arising from the particular nature of the season. In contrast, fall of meteors, lightning, dust storm, earth- quake, internal conflicts (graha yuddha), portentous thunder, rainbow and eclipse of the sun or the moon are the indicaters for miscarrying (garbha pata) of the foetuses. 3. For measurement of rainfall or rainwater, the unit of rain- gauging was adhaka. An adhaka is the quantity of rainfall that fills to Shri Sumanta Kumar Mishra Department of Extenhis sion Education, Banaras Hindu Univerphilosophy sity Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 221 005  the brim of a vessel 20 inches in diameter and 8 inches deep. Four such adhakas constitute a drona. The amount of rain fall in coming months/ seasons/ year is assessed on the basis of symptoms at cloud conception, position of the sun and the moon in the particular nakshatra division or zodiacs, and some related considerations. 4. According to ancient scriptures including those of Garga, Varahamihira and Parasar etc., there are four types of clouds, viz. (i) abartak (ii) sambartak (iii) pushkar, and (iv) drona. If dominating cloud of year is abartak, rain will take place in certain places in that year; if sambartak - in all parts of the country; if pushkar - the quantity of rainfall will be very less; and if drona - that year will receive abundant rainwater. 5. According to ruling planet of a year, overall rainfall of that particular year should be anticipated as follows: (i) sun - moderate (ii) moon - very heavy, (iii) mars - scanty, (iv) mercury - good (v) jupiter - very good (vi) venus - good, and (vii) saturn - very low and stormy wind. 6. Three days in the month of Ashadha (June- July) have been specially selected by our ancient meteorologists for observation of atmospheric conditions to determine the future prospect of rain. They are the days when in the lunar month of Ashadha, the moon passes through the asterisms of Rohini, Swati, and Uttarashadha, respectively known as Rohini yoga, Swati yoga and Ashadha yoga days. 7. Changes in weather are associated with the sun, the moon and other seven planets under certain conditions of positions, either when they act alone or in combination (planetary conjunction or graha yoga). Strong positions or aspects of planets leave impactful impressions on the weather progressively all-round the world . The slower-moving planets (especially Jupiter and Saturn ) exert a telling influence because of their slow speed and great masses  for a long period of time. 8.When the sun and the moon are in neutral asterisms, there will be winds; when they are in feminine asterisms, there will be lightning and phosphorescence; and when the sun occupies a feminine asterism and the moon a masculine or vice versa, there will be rains. 9.