 Keywords: Adathoda vasica, soak Shri Babaji Khaant of Sabarkantha (Gujarat) uses pods of garmalo (Cassia fistula) and steam coal to cure animals of afara. About 200 g pods of garmalo and 100 g steam coal are mixed and pound to a fine powder. This is thoroughly mixed in water and filtered. The filtered liquid is given to the animal to drink, once a day for 2 days. The animal will have loose motions and then will become well. Keywords: garmalo, steam coal, sabji Shri Lalujibhai Umarabhai Vasava, Mission Company, P.O.Kanbhdi, Dediyapada, dist. Bharuch (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Babaji Sonaji Khaant, Sabarkantha (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3103 Control of indigestion in cattle by using puliyaranai kez.hangu 3104 Control of indigestion in cattle by using betel leaves 3105 Nerunji water treatment for curing indigestion in cattle 3106 Lausra (Cordia obliqua) for digestion problem in cattle To control indigestion, 100 g tubers of puliyaranai kez.hangu (Aponogeton natans) mixed with arugampul (Cynodon dactylon) leaves are fed to the cattle. It takes 3 hr to give relief to the cattle, and the excretion becomes normal. Keywords: indigestion, puliyaranai kezhangu, arugampul For controlling indigestion in cattle, 10 betel leaves (Hibiscus abelmoschus), 20 g ginger (Zingiber officinalis) piece, 10 g black pepper (Piper nigrum), and 10 g garlic (Allium sativum) are taken. A paste is prepared by mixing all these ingredients in hot water and fed to the cattle twice a day. This gives immediate relief to the cattle. Keywords: indigestion When cattle is suffering from indigestion and swelling of stomach, nerunji (Pedalium murex) extract is prepared and fed to the cattle. This water acts as laxative and helps in digestion, giving quick relief to the cattle. Keywords: nerunji water, indigestion, laxative This ITK is followed in hilly areas of district Shimla in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Cardia spp. contains some substance that is effective to cure digestive ailments in cattle. After removing seeds from fruits, pickle and sabji are prepared, which are good remedy to cure gastric problem very significantly. Fruits as such are also used for this purpose. Key words: lausra (Cordia obliqua), digestion, pickle, sabji Shri D. Kuppusamy, S/o Shri Dhanapal Chettiar, Gengavaram, Kanakankuppam, Alampoondi, Gingee, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu)604 151 Shri R. Anbarasu, S/o Shri Raman, P.O. Maramadakki. taluk Aranthangi. Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 622 Shri M. Senthil Vadivu, Perumalkoilpatty, Sathankoilpatty, Devadanapatty (via, Periyakulam), Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 602 Farmers of hilly areas of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: Dr L.R.