 Advancing poverty reduction requires policy measures that enhance adaptability by supporting multi-stakeholder enterprises and shifting the research agenda toward innovative agricultural techniques. CRA adoption can be boosted through agronomic and precision methods, including mixed cropping, livestock management, and cultivating short- duration crops. Practices like intercropping, farmyard manure use, crop hybridization, germplasm conservation, biofuels, and solar-powered irrigation should also be considered (Escarcha et al., 2018). A comprehensive geodatabase powered by IoT and AI is essential for assessing CRA techniques (Javaid et al., 2023). This system should include guides for tool maintenance, setup, and flux sheet generation. Local NGOs and public-private partnerships (PPP) have mapped land and soil using digital soil data, RS/GIS technology, and GPS devices (Bwambale et al., 2022). These efforts have been integrated with household demographic data to create computerized geographic records that link land ownership information. 12. Region specifics practices of CRA in India India’s agricultural landscape is distinct, given its wide range of agroecological zones (AEZ) by National Commission on agriculture India (1971) (see SF.3). It provides more localized, region-specific rec- ommendations, which would strengthen the CRA strategy by making it more practical and actionable for different areas, enhancing its overall effectiveness. In forming these strategies, the adoption approach for CRA specific to each AEZ was validated through an analysis of water storage anom- alies. These anomalies, measured in centimeters of Equivalent Water Thickness (EWT), were derived from data provided by the GRACE and GRACE-FO missions. Data processing was conducted at NASA’s Jet Fig. 9. The trend analysis (2002–2024) of equivalent water thickness (EWT) over India by the GRACE Mascon mission. S. Sahoo et al. Environmental and Sustainability Indicators 25 (2025) 100544 15 Propulsion Laboratory using the Mascon approach (RL06.1Mv03) (URL: https://grace.jpl.nasa.gov/data/get-data/jplglobalmascons/). The long- term trend of EWT from 2002 to 2024 across India was estimated using the Google Earth Engine cloud platform, applying the slope of the linear regression (SLR) method. This analysis revealed that the Western Dry Region, Western Himalayan, and Gangetic Plain AEZs experienced the steepest declines in EWT compared to other regions, underscoring the urgent need for CRA adoption in these areas to ensure future food se- curity stability. Notably, the northwestern area emerged as the most vulnerable hotspot for water scarcity, exhibiting negative trends of around −7.413 cm per year (see Fig. 9). In India, different regions adopt different sustainable agricultural practices to increase climate resilience (Alagh, 1990; Singh et al., 2021).