 217 Control of storage pests of cowpea Volume 2, page 228 Adhatoda Contents Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications GRAIN/SEED STORAGE : Bengali: basak; Gujarati: aradusi; Hindi: arusa, bansa; Kannada: adusoge, kurchigida, pavate; Dogri: bahekar, baikar, basuth, bhenkar; Malayalam: adalodakam; Oriya: arusa, basung; Punjabi: bansa, basuti, bhekar, vasaka; Sanskrit: shwetavasa, vasa, vasaka; Tamil: adhatodai, pavettai; Telugu: addasaramu. Malabarnut, vasaka : Adhatoda vasica Nees. : An alcoholic extract of the leaves showed activity against Micrococcus pyogenes var. aureus and Escherichia coli. The flowers and fruits are bitter and aromatic. The root is administered as a decoction along with other expectorants. : An evergreen, gregarious, stiff, perennial shrub, 1.2-6.0 m in height, distributed throughout India, up to an altitude of 1,300 m. Leaves elliptic-lanceolate or ovate-lanceolate, Twig Branch entire, 5-30 cm long, hairy, light green above, dark below, leathery; flowers large, white with red- or yellow-barred throats, in spikes with large bracts; capsules clavate, longitudinally channelled, 1.9-2.2 cm x 0.8 cm; seed globular. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 750 Use of turmeric powder and mustard oil for storage of pulses Volume 2, page 229 Turmeric and mustard Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Turmeric: Refer to ITK No. 481 Mustard: Bengali: soda rai; Hindi: lahi, lutni, maghi, sarson, toria. Mustard: Field mustard, Indian colza, turnip rape Mustard: Brassica campestris Linn. Mustard: The oil is used in India for cooking purposes. It is also used for oil bath and it is believed to strengthen the skin and to keep it cool and healthy. With camphor it forms an efficacious embrocation in case of muscular rheumatism, stiff neck etc. The oilcake is a cattle feed. The tender leaves and shoot are relished as pot-herb. Mustard: A much-branched, very variable, annual or biennial herb, up to 1.5 m in height, cultivated in India as a cool-season crop. Taproot fusiform or tuberous; basal leaves lyrate-pinnatifid, lobes decreasing in size towards petiole, glaucous, glabrous, with a few bristly hairs, especially along the veins; lower cauline leaves several lobed, upper cauline leaves sessile, amplexicaul, oblong-lanceolate, sharply dentate; flowers yellow; siliqua, 50-100 mm x 2.5^.0 mm, attenuating into a long slender beak 5-30 mm long; seeds mucilaginous or non-mucilaginous. India is the third largest oilseed-producing country in the world. Rapeseed-mustard production accounts for nearly 15 to 20 per cent of the total oilseeds produced in India. The chief growing states are Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Assam, Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan and West Bengal. Rai, sarson and toria are all grown in U.P.