 Through extensive survey in the tribal villages KVK Jorhat realized that integration of improved breeds of pig and scientific management practice alone could solve the problem of low productivity of rural piggery sector. At the same time the availability of improve piglets locally need to be assured. Plan, Implement and Support: Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Jorhat under a Tribal Sub Plan (TSP) funded project introduced improved pig breed in 10 selected tribal villages under Dhakargarah Development Block of Jorhat to replace the existing low productive indigenous breed and to increase the availability of improve piglets locally. KVK, Jorhat had selected Hampshire, an improved breed as a need based intervention for solving the problem with indigenous low productive breed. To meet the requirement of improve piglets of the new improved breed, one breeding unit was established in each of the 10 selected villages with 10 female pigs and two boars. Further, KVK, Jorhat introduced the technology of improved housing and feed management in the villages of the Allengmora area. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 57 KVK scientists regularly monitored the performance of the breed, besides providing health care and technical support. Vaccination against infectious disease was also done on a regular basis. Extensive trainings on piggery management were also provided to the farmers. Output: Among the beneficiary farmers, Mrs. Mahilarani Misong w/o Mr. Atul Misong, a progressive farmer from Neolgaon of Allengmora area has emerged as most successful in rearing and production of piglets of the new breed for horizontal spread. During the year 2015-16 they sold 140 piglets of Hampshire breed to the nearby villages and earned Rs. 4,05,000.00 from the sale of piglets. In addition to the spread of new breed, local female pigs were also crossed with Hampshire boar for improvement of the local breed for which the beneficiary farmer charges Rs 300.00 per service. More than 120 female pigs were crossed at Mrs Misong’s farm from which she has earned additional Rs 36,000.00 during 2015-16. Mrs Misong has extended her farm with 3 new sheds with new piglets for which she has invested from her own. Outcome: The beneficiaries were very happy with the new Hampshire breed for its adaptability to the local conditions and overall high productivity. Almost all the beneficiaries of the selected villages under the programme are maintaining their farm very scientifically and earning a substantial amount from the sale of pig for meat as well as piglets. Marketing: Due to high demand of good quality piglets and meat, the farmers did not have any problem in selling the piglets and pork. In fact, there is advance booking for the Hampshire piglets in most of the farms. The piglets are also sold even to nearby district like Sivasagar & Golaghat. The present rate of piglets is Rs 3000.00 per piglet and Rs 200.00 per kg of meat.