 Beekeeping and rural economy enhancement Besides the horticultural crops, bee keeping also plays a major role in rural economy. There is need for capacity building in conserving and popularizing bee keeping among farmers creating awareness about the importance of honeybees for value addition and diversification. Under Tribal Sub Plan every year beehives have been provided to beneficiaries. In 2018, Bee colonies were given to beneficiaries in BR Hills and Kollegal areas of Karnataka while in 2019 it was given in Rayagada and Gajapati districts of Odisha. Besides providing the bee colonies, a technical session on bee keeping with basics and benefits of bee keeping was also conducted to spread awareness. 3.6. Nutritional security through new improved vegetables and fruits Gandhiji emphasized for fruits and vegetables as a major part of his diet. He believed in the curative value of indigenous fruits. In this line, at ICAR-CISH, a new line of high yielding aonla (CISH-A—33) with large fruits rice in ascorbic acid, polyphenolshas been identified. Solapur Lal was developed at ICAR-NRCP. This hybrid is rich in vitamin C and anthocyanin content (DARE/ICAR 2018). The iron content is also high compared to ruling varieties of pomegranate. Though considered as poor man’s crop earlier, sweet potato has gain popularity because of its nutritive value. A new variety, Bhu Sona that is rich in carotene besides tolerance to salinity, suitable for cultivation in eastern states, has been identified by CTCRI. Another variety, Bhu Krishna that is rich in anthocyanin, has been identified. IIHR has developed Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 20 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR several nutritionally superior varieties of fruits and vegetables. Lycopene rich guava and tomato; carotenoid rich mango, pumpkin; vit C rich guava, chilli and antioxidant rich leafy vegetables are few popular ones. Recently, a new drumstick line IIHR-D-16 has been identified that recorded 135 fruits per plant compared to PKM-1 (105 fruits/ plant) with good nutritional profile. Among the leafy vegetables Enhydra fluctuans (locally called HilMilchi) contained higher phenolics and antioxidant potential. They can supplement the nutritional requirement in the rural areas. Minor fruits viz., Careya arborea, salacia chinensis, Peanut butter fruit, Canito, Surinam cherry, Citrus hindsi, Ugrassa, Chalmogra, Garcinia mundro, Crateagus sp. Azimatetra cantha were characterized and mineral nutritional analysis of these fruits have been carried out. They can help in achieving nutritional requirements of rural and tribal population. 3.7. Improved livelihood with introduction of tuber crops in Tuhet Garden System in Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhiji’s concern for the tribal and socially under-privileged people is well known from his days spent in South Africa.