 It can be developed at any stage of crop development. In severe infestation it causes defoliation. Avoid water lodging in field. Keep field clean. For mild infestation take spray of water soluble Sulphur @ 20 g/10 l of water 2-3 times with interval of 10 days. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 113 Š Š Commonly observed pest during this stage is thrips. Mostly observed in dry weather. They suck sap from the foliage and results in curling of leaves. Also causes flower drop. To check severity of thrips incidence, keep blue sticky traps @ 6-8 per acre. Also to reduce the incidence spray Verticillium lecani @ 5gm/Ltr water. Š Š Aphid: They suck sap from the leaf. They excrete honey like substance and developed sooty mouldi.e blackish colour fungus on the Calyx and pods thus deteriorate quality of product. To control take spray of Acephate 75SP@1gm/Ltr or Methyl demeton 25EC@2ml/Ltr of water. Soil application of granular insecticides viz Carbofuran, Phorate@4-8kg/acre on 15 and 60 days after transplanting were also effective. Yellow Mosaic Š Š Light and green patches observed on leaves. In early stage plant growth get stops. Yellowing, chlorotic ring spots on leaves and fruits. Select healthy and disease free seeds for cultivation. Uproot and destroy infected plant away from field. If observed in field to control it, take spray of Acephate 75SP@600gm/200Ltr or Methyl demeton 25EC@2ml/Ltr of water. Kiwi fruit Š Š Provide protection to kiwi plants using 50% shade net for reducing flower and fruit drop due to hail storm. Š Š Hand pollination to increase fruit set percentage and yield per plant. Khasi Mandarin Š Š Apply Bordeaux paste on tree trunk of khasi mandarin up to 60 cm height from ground level to prevent fungal diseases. Š Š Right time for collection and destruction of trunk borer adults by shaking the branches 2-3 times at 10 days interval. Š Š Spray Multiplex (mixture of micronutrients) @ 2.5 ml/litre of water on the new flushes of khasi mandarin. Large Cardamom Š Š Clean the base of large cardamom plant thoroughly to facilitate flowering and fruiting. Š Š Plant healthy disease-free large cardamom suckers and replace the old diseased plants. Š Š Pit making pit filling with cow dung compost (@2-3 kg/pit) should be completed in the third week of May. Š Š A mature tiller with 2-3 vegetative buds are advised to plant during May-June. Soybean Š Š Select well drained loamy and sandy loam soil free from water stagnation. Š Š Sowing should be done during mid June. Š Š Seed treatment with Rhizobium and Phosphotika @ 20g each/1kg of seed. Š Š Crop should be kept weed free upto 60 DAS Š Š To control leaf blight, leaf spot, seedling rot, frog eye and rust, seed can be treated with Dithane T-14 @ 2g/kg of seed. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 114 Horticulture Š Š Growing of drought resistance vegetables varieties in kharif are bottle gourd var. Kashi Bahar, Okra Var. Kashi Pragiti, Dolichos bean Var. Kashi Haritima and Cowpea Kashi Kanchan.