 Mechanism also imparts capacity to the farmers to carry out farm operation with dignity, with ease and freedom from drudgery, making the farming agreeable vocation for educated youth as well. It helps the farmers to achieve timeliness and precisely mater and apply costly input for better efficacy and efficiency, achieving higher productivity with reduced application of inputs. Agricultural produce and by-products are perishable in nature in varying degree and their perishability gets exploited on the market floor compelling distress sales orchestrated by factors of demand and supply, intervention of the faces of marketing in the absence of matching post-harvest technology and agro-processing infrastructure. Agricultural Engineering inputs are also needed to assure remunerative prices to the growers and a share in the value addition to the growers through on- farm post-harvest technology and value addition to their produce and by-products in order to strengthen their livelihood-base landholdings which are decreasing for their socio-economic sustenance and assure minimum standards of living. This article depicts the experience of Institute Technology Management Unit and Agribusiness Incubation Centre operational at ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology as an innovative developmental instrument for supporting the growth of competitive enterprises in post-harvest technology and value addition by advancing innovation in product development, process optimization technology dissemination. Key words: Agribusiness, Agri-processing Indian Farming 70(01): 60–63; January 2020 unemployed youth by spawning new technologies and machineries and creating path to access latest agricultural technologies, by providing suitable need based services. Presently ICAR’s incubation centres are known for their technology interventions and prompt commercialization of research outputs. India’s food ecosystem offers huge opportunities for investments with stimulating growth in the food retail sector, favourable economic policies and attractive fiscal incentives. The Government of India through ICAR is also taking all necessary steps to boost investments in the agro processing industry. Food processing has an important role to play in linking Indian farmers to consumers in the domestic and international markets. India is an agro based economy, around 65% of its population depends on agriculture to make a livelihood. In such a scenario, Agriculture has to be seen as Agribusiness and not merely a way of Indian Farming January 2020 61 life. Unless technology is blended with agri entrepreneurship, the productivity would continue to remain low as in the traditional methods of farming and agribusiness. Accordingly it is necessary to increase productivity with increasing population. A large number of technologies capable of changing the face of Indian agriculture are being churned out.