 Tamarind pulp is the economic part but other by-products such as seed, shell, fiber are also useful for various purposes. Considering its nutritional and adaptive features, this hitherto neglected and underutilized crop needs attention to tackle malnutrition and climate change adaptation and for providing an important means of livelihood for rural India. In this context, a survey was undertaken in Tumkur district of Karnataka to characterize the local variability of tamarind for identifying superior trees based on morpho-physiological Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 18 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR analysis of pod and tree characters. During this survey, an accession named L1 was identified in Nandihalli village growing in field of Shri Laxmannappa to be superior in several yield and quality traits. The whole family of Shri Laxmannappa who owns L1 gets involved during harvesting period for processing. The employment is created for six months from February to June. One person can process 15-20 kg pods per day and earn around Rs 400 day-1. After the shell is removed, the pulp is inverted to discard the seeds and the pulp is stacked in ring shape in bamboo basket with capacity of 50kg. Each basket fetches Rs. 1500. The seed is also sold at rate of Rs 17 kg-1 and the shell chips at Rs 2.50 kg-1. The seeds of L1 tamarind are bold type and each quintal of pulp produces approximately 40 kg seeds. Thus, primary processing and value addition activities have potential of improving livelihood. Collective marketing and meager primary processing provides the livelihood and regular income. This innovative model of linking biodiversity with livelihood security will help us to double the income of marginal farmers in rural India. 3.2. Connecting rural livelihood to export business Gandhiji believed in improving rural economy. Farmers’ income if enhanced it will improve the whole country. Banana is important horticultural crop. The farmers face problem during periods of high production, in marketing and storage due to its quick perishability. If there is an opportunity to export, then the marketing of produce will happen seamless. For the first time, shipment of Nendran Bananas to West Asia was made possible by the efforts of NRC for Banana along with APEDA and Fair Exports Pvt. Ltd. based at Kochi. This has made the export more remunerative and has can improve the rural economy. 3.3.Promoting rural economy by facilitating better marketing Marketing is important aspect in doubling the farmers in come. For example, mango production has increased over the years. Mahihabadi Dusseri mango is very popular. But to obtain premium price marketing with Geographical Indicator can help.