 Plant protection Potato crop needs to be protected from different disease carriers, insects and pests by applying chemical formulations. Commonly, liquid chemicals are sprayed on crop canopy for protection. Many times delay in chemical spray can lead to huge losses particularly in case of late blight disease. Delay of 1-2 days can result in complete loss of crop. Therefore, timely and uniform application of plant protection chemicals is important, which is possible with high capacity tractor operated sprayers. Multinozzle boom sprayer, having 12-16 nozzles, is also useful for potato crop. However, spray gun is especially effective for late blight in potato plants as it covers lower surface of leaves more effectively. For small holdings, manually or battery Spraying with power sprayers Potato harvesting with tractor operated digger elevator Interculturing and fertilizer top dressing before earthing operations in potato crop November–December 2019 53 Low cost blade type digger Two row potato combine harvester days without cutting haulms) and can also successfully work in dry field conditions. Potato combine harvester A two row potato combine harvesters has been developed at CRPI to carry out potato digging and picking together. Some other firms have also developed single and two row potato combine harvesters in recent years. Functions of the combine harvester machine are to dig the potato tubers from 15-20 cm deep soil, separate the tubers from soil clods, convey the tubers to the sorting platform and collect them in a hopper. Further, it can be unloaded into a transporting trolley or on a heap. Four workers have to be employed with these machines to sort the rotten tubers or soil clods passing on to the sorting table. These machines are usually powered by a 50 to 60 hp tractor. Grading Graded, sorted and properly packed potatoes fetch good price in the market. Manual grading is not uniform and it requires a lot of time and energy which brings down the overall returns. Various manual as well as power operated graders have been developed for size grading of the potato tubers. Rubber belts having different size round or square shaped perforations are generally used in the grading system. Lot of labour is required in these high capacity graders for feeding, sorting and packaging of the potatoes. Seed treatment Disease free seed is the most important requirement to grow healthy potato crop. Seed potatoes need to be treated before stroge to protect against diseases. For controlling tuber and soil born diseases, viz. common scab, black scurf and powdery scab, 3% boric acid treatment can be given with an electric powered seed treatment machine. In this machine boric acid is sprayed on the potatoes moving and rolling over a conveyor. All the surfaces are coated with the chemical and the used solution is re-circulated. This machine can treat about 300-350 quintal potatoes per day. For further interaction, please write to: Dr B Dr B Dr B Dr B Dr B. Nare .