 The ‘Phoenix Settlement’ and the ‘Tolstoy Farm’ are the two of his early experiments. In the Phoenix Settlement each member of the society were to cultivate three acres of land given to his family. This concept was started to avoid uncultivable land due to absentee land- owners. Tolstoy Farm was a rehabilitation settlement of the families affected by the South African freedom struggle during that period and the method of operation was similar to the Phoenix Settlement. There were 77 multi-religious members in the Tolstoy Farm who were assigned jobs including farming, carpentry, manufacturing and other such activities. These experiences and experiments helped him to develop the model he adopted in Sabarmati Ashram at a later stage. Observing the distress of small and marginal farmers due to poverty and debt, Gandhiji felt, “cooperation among the peasants is an absolute necessity for their prosperity”. Cooperatives, according to his philosophy, will help to battle against the difficulties faced due to capitalism and other common enemies for the betterment of the livelihood of its members. He believed also cooperation was one of the important means to empower people. Cooperative farming is of two major types: (i) a collection of individual farmers and farming on their own holdings jointly with a common agency formed and governed by themselves for Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 180 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR collectively purchasing the inputs for farming and for selling the produce; and (ii) a farming operation carried out collectively merging small individual holdings into a common unit and managed cooperatively. The benefits, in either case, are shared based on the size and value of the plot and the individual’s contribution. Nearly 80% Indian farms are small and marginal and cultivation in such small-holdings is uneconomical and non-profitable. Under such a situation if these marginal and small holdings can be consolidated and if the small and marginal farmers pool their land, resources and other inputs and then start cultivating their land jointly by forming a co-operative, they can get the benefits of large scale farming. Gandhiji believed our farmers shall not derive the full benefit of farming unless they take up cooperative farming and he further observed that it is better for 100 families in a village to collect their lands and divide the benefits than dividing the lands and staying poor due to small outputs. Government of India, following Gandhian Principles and Ethics on cooperative farming, had initiated formation of FPOs or Farmer Producer Organizations. There are farmers’ collectives, with membership mainly comprising small and marginal farmers. Presently, around 5000 FPOs are in existence in the country, which were formed under various initiatives of the Government of India including Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortia (SFAC), State Governments, NABARD and other organizations.