 In case the Director/ DDG/DG, ICAR disagrees with the assessment of both the reviewer and the reviewee he may give reasons for disagreement. He shall then counter- sign the proforma with his specific reacommendations giving full justifica- tion. 9. Director will forward directly to Agricultural Scientists' Recruit- ment Board the proformae relating to all scientists excepting those which have to be examined by the DDG concerned or by the Director-General The proforma received at the ICAR Headquarters for examining and com- pleting Part IV/Y thereof by the DDG concerned or by DG will be for- warded to the ASRB after getting the needful done, through concerned 56 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE administrative Section at the ICAR Headquarters. One copy of the pro- forma will, however, be sent to the Personnel Division for record. 10. In cases where a scientist has worked at more than one Institute/ Organisation during the past five years on account of transfer or deputation, he may complete requisite number of copies of assessment preformae in respect of each such Institute/Organisation where he has worked for one year or more. The Institute etc. where the scientist is posted currently will co-ordinate all such proformae duly completed by the concerned authorities of the previous Institute/Organisation and forward them to the concerned DDG/DG who will give an over-all assessment. based on the information available in the proformae for the entire period of five years before the assess- ment proformae in respect of such Scientists are passed on to the ASRB. PEER REVIEW SYSTEM 11. The Assessment Committee will consist of five members of whom two would be nominated by the Chairman A. S. R. B. and two by the President, I. C. A. R. from a Panel of names to be put up by the Director- General. However, the quorum for the Assessment Committee to function would be only three. As in the Peer Review System, this committee consti- tuted for each professional subject/discipline andyor related field and eminent scientists, belonging to that particular discipline only will be its members. The Committee will deal with all scientists/assessces belonging to that discipline though working in different research institutes. The Assessment Committee would consist of external members (including ratired ICAR scientists) only, with Chairman, ASRB or his nominee as its Chairman. Before the meeting of the Assessment Committee the Chairman, ASRB may, as far as possible, have a meeting with the members of each Committee (s) for briefing and giving guidlincs to them for judging the achievements of an individual scientist in his/her respective discipline. While doing so, the distinction between merit promo- tion up to S-3 covered by Rule 19 on the one hand and promotion based on outstanding performance covered by Rule 12 of the Rules of the ARS on the other shall be given due attention. 12.