 The gene family members associated to phosphorus (P) metabolism, potassium (K) metabolism, zinc (Zn) metabolism, sulphur (S), iron (Fe), heavy metal remediation, antibiotic sensitivity/ resistance and stress were identified in P2 genome, and the study would allow this bacterium to be considered as a biological fertilizer in agriculture. It also showed a very high phosphorus solubilizing potential and plant growth- promoting activity. Karnal bunt, caused by the fungus Tilletia indica (Syn. Neovosia indica), is of serious concern due to strict quarantine affecting international trade of wheat. Severe economic losses occur owing to quarantine restrictions. The draft sequence of the fungal strain is a major landmark to understand pathogen diversity, mating behaviour and early detection. A unique genic- SNP genotyping chip for genetic and evolutionary studies as well as molecular breeding applications in rice was designed and validated. A putative RuBisCo activase gene was cloned from heat-tolerant wheat cultivar HD 2985 towards basic studies for improving stress tolerance in wheat to mitigate effects of climate change. A novel alien leaf rust resistance gene (Lr Sel.G12) was mapped and linked to two microsatellite markers in Triticum timopheevii derivative, “Selection G12”. Three new SSR (Simple Sequence Repeat) markers (DGR 308, DGR 508 and DGR 800) were found associated with late leaf spot (LLS) disease resistance in groundnut. Thirteen BC3F3 “QTLs hotspot” introgressed chickpea (DCP 92-3) lines were developed for drought tolerance. Multiple stress inducible chickpea WRKY transcription factor was identified and structure model of the protein was developed. During the reported period, 1.25 lakh q of breeder, 1.49 lakh q foundation, 1.19 lakh q certified, 1.28 lakh q truthfully labelled seeds, and 0.37 lakh q sugarcane planting material, respectively, were produced. Further, more than 272 lakh of planting material and 13 lakh tissue cultured saplings were produced and distributed during the year. OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 4 New hybrids and varieties (51) were developed in different horticultural crops. These include – seedless jamun (CISH-J-42); Thar Malti ber (60 kg/plant); Thar Neelkanth bael (75 kg/plant fruit yield); coconut hybrid ‘Kalpa Samrudhi’ (Dwarf×Tall) and Kalpatharu (high-yielding, premium ball copra, coconut variety). NRCB-8 banana is an exotic introduction of cv. Saba (ABB) with 30 kg/ bunch. In vegetables, Arka Samrat tomato (~100 tonnes/ha yield potential) was recommended as bacterial wilt resistant tomato hybrid for Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. Pea ‘Arka Priya’ was recommended as powdery mildew resistant pea variety for Zone I, IV and VIII. French bean, Arka Sharath, with no parchment was recommended for release by SVEC for Karnataka. It is suitable for both kharif and rabi seasons. The first Indian variety of muskmelon, Sel-3, is a selection with 31.60 tonnes/ha yield.