 They have harvested a bumper crop in the first year itself and due to high demand of this vegetable in the Jorhat & Mariani market, they have received a premium price and were very happy. At present Boloma area is one of the major vegetable producing areas of the district and Sri Phoni Bora is the torch bearer and ideal farmer of the locality. KVK, Jorhat also helped the farmers to introduce new improved breeds of cattle, piggery and poultry for integrating with crop components. KVK provided all kinds of technological interventions and necessary skill up-gradation trainings to the farmers of the area. Output: Sri Phoni Bora, among the farmers of Boloma area has emerged as most successful farmer in implementing the Integrated Farming System. During the year 2015-16 Sri Phoni Bora has cultivated summer & winter vegetables in an area of 1.50 hectare and earned Rs. 5, 66,000.00 from sale of vegetables, Rs 54,000.00 from Sale of fishes, Rs 69,000.00 from sale of Pig & piglet, Rs. 1,12,800.00 from sale of milk, 14,000.00 from sale of egg and Rs 19,200.00 from sale of fruits. In addition to his self employment, Sri Bora is also providing full time appointment to 6 unemployed youth of his village in his farm and 2 workers for marketing his farm produce with his own conveyance. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 59 Outcome: The pig breeding unit of Sri Bora is producing high quality piglets of Hampshire breed and serving as a source of good quality piglet in the locality. He has developed a traditional bari with an area of 0.80 ha which includes various indigenous fruits viz., Ponial (Flacourtia gangomos), Dilienia indica, Naga tenga (Rhus semialata), various types of Jamun, Ber, Citrus, Carrabolla, Jack fruit, Tamarind, Aonla, Olive, Plum, Peach, Custard apple and medicinal plants viz., Alovera, Sarpagondha, Pachauli, Paederia foetida, Murrayakoenigii, Cinnamon, Bay leaf etc. His typical bari represents the image of biodiversity conservation. Apart from his involvement in farming activities he is also associated as an active member in different social organizations for the welfare of the farming community. Impact: Due to good result and return from new integrated farming, the farmers of the nearby villages are both purchasing the production of the farms of the beneficiary farmer and thereby improving the financial status of the farmer. During the year the cultivation of crop has spread to several villages of the Burakuri Gaon, Boloma, Teok area and in the next season many more farmers are expected to follow his farming system. Mr. Bora has emerged as an example of successful vegetable grower among the vegetable growers of the locality.  State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 61 4 bihar The state of new Bihar came into existence in the year 2000 after creation of a new state of Jharkhand from old Bihar. Bihar, comprising 2.