) and modern India (Veterinary medicine during East India Company, British Raj, post independence, veterinary education, white revolution, history of RVC, electron microscopy in biomedical research and AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 93 improving the condition of student hostels across Agricultural Universities (AUs), purchase of new equipment for upgrading of student and Common Instrumentation laboratories, support for smart classrooms, conduct of practicals, both UG and PG, personality development, holistic growth, etc. leading to overall strengthening of infrastructure in AUs. An amount of ` 294.35 crore was provided to support these activities during the year. Across the country, AUs are being supported to ensure that the quality of higher agricultural education and learning is improved. Smart classrooms, supported by the Council have enabled effective delivery of course curriculum, ensuring enriched learning experience. The support for strengthening of PG and UG laboratories led to improvement in conducting practical classes. For increasing awareness in latest techniques and research in cutting edge areas, support was provided for student and faculty amenities/tours/capacity building and participation in seminars, symposia, workshops etc. With the support from Council, the AUs initiated short courses/workshops/lectures on overall personality development, leadership programmes as well as spoken English as per need. The support also helped improve amenities in the hostels and other services in the campus, including facilities for disabled. Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on career development. Education Technology Cells were strengthened by publication of booklets, pamphlets and exhibition of model products. Substantial support from Council was provided and the universities were encouraged to develop overall personality of students by teaching them self-defence, yoga, career development talks by guest faculty, conducting workshops, counselling for exams, etc. Implementation of Budget Announcements: Establishment of New Universities • Financial support has been extended for the Laying of Foundation Stone for Auditorium at DUVASU, Mathura Library Strengthening The Library Strengthening grants to the tune of ` 12.05 crore were utilized to strengthen and modernize the university and colleges libraries services by enriching the resources and infrastructure. University libraries and colleges were automated through Koha and other softwares. The Web-OPAC through e-KIOSK has helped students and faculties to locate the books and journals etc. Self check in/ checkout Kiosks were made available to library users. University Library provided Web-OPAC to all component colleges, KVKs and research stations and IDEAL facility made available.