 Internet of Things: The Internet of Things (IoT) is a network of physical objects that are connected to the internet and can communicate with other devices Applications of digital technologies in improving productivity and quality of pomegranate Blockchain technology: Ensuring Transparency and Traceability Internet of things: Connecting the Orchard Mobile applications: Putting Information at Your Fingertips Artificial intelligence: Empowering Data-Driven Decisions Robotics: Efficiency and Quality Precision farming: Tailoring Care to Every Tree Blokchain Use cases in Smart Agriculture Farm Overseeing Supply chain Land Registration Food Safety Real time Remittance for small Farms Indian Horticulture 12 and systems. IoT devices, equipped with sensors and connectivity, create a network that enables real-time monitoring and control of various aspects of pomegranate cultivation. Smart irrigation systems: IoT-enabled systems can automatically adjust irrigation based on real-time weather and soil moisture data, ensuring efficient water usage by preventing overwatering and under-watering. In a comprehensive study that accumulated data over two years, a web-based irrigation decision support system was found to be effective in management of water resources for irrigation in Italian pomegranate orchards. An attempt is being made towards developing low-cost yet intelligent devises based on IoT that can be efficiently used as smart irrigation system. Pest and disease monitoring: IoT devices having sensors can detect early signs of pests and diseases, enabling timely intervention to prevent crop damage. Bacterial blight and Cercospora fruit spot are diseases that show early signs on leaves. IoT enabled pomegranate leaf disease detection and classification models based on Hidden Markov Model (HMM) have been developed, which could accurately determine pomegranate leaf diseases. Moreover, IoT based devices can be applied for monitoring soil, water and air quality, hence identifying conducive environment safe for pomegranate cultivation. Image analysis using AI: AI algorithms can analyse images of pomegranate to assess their quality, detect defects, and predict ripeness ensuring that only the best fruits reach the market. K-means clustering has been widely applied for detection of bacterial blight on pomegranate fruits and training the model to differentiate between diseased fruits and healthy fruits. Various features such as fruit colour, shape and presence of spots on fruit surface can be extracted using Convolutional Neural Networks (CNN) and classes could be detected using Long-Short Term Memory (LSTM). In addition to disease detection, machine vision can also be utilised for detection of sunburn which causes dark brown colour on the fruits.