 Refined vaccine against EHV1: Earlier used EHV1 vaccine (Equiherpabort) was further refined by using montanide. It provided the best response as adjudged through better immune responses, low virus shedding and better protection in terms of reduced clinical signs, early weight gain and lower gross and histopathological lesion scores. Generation of gE deletion mutants of EHV 1: To develop modified live vaccines, EHV1 bacterial artificial chromosome was used to generate EHV1 deletion mutant of gE gene. The mutant deleted gE- BAC construct was confirmed by PCR and RFLP analysis employing HindIII and BamHI. Generation of reverse equine influenza virus: Reverse genetics technique was used to develop recombinant equine influenza virus, which can be used as a vaccine candidate. The virus was grown in bulk in embryonated chicken eggs and purified, quantified and inactivated with formalin for immunization in BALB/c mice for the challenge studies. Lateral flow assay (LFA) diagnostic kit for equine piroplasmosis: Equine piroplasmosis, a tick-borne disease, showed prevalence of about 35% in Indian equids. A field test kit, was developed, which is rapid and a farmer friendly lateral flow assay (LFA) for diagnosis of equine piroplasmosis (T. equi infection). The kit has 0.945 diagnostic sensitivity (Dsn) and 0.916 specificity (Dsp). Differentiation of EHV1/4 infection: The differential diagnosis of EHV1 and EHV4 viruses is often complicated due to antigenic cross-reactivity between the two viruses. A recombinant antigen based ELISA kit for differential diagnosis of EHV1 and EHV4 infections, was developed. Out of 659 sera tested, 6.4 and 64.5% were tested positive for EHV1 and EHV4, respectively. Rapid diagnosis of trypanosomosis: A lateral flow assay for the diagnosis of trypanosomosis was developed using flagellar recombinant protein. LFA is a rapid, simple and easy to use, cost effective, portable, highly sensitive and specific method in which the diagnosis is completed within 15 min using 1-2 drops of serum sample. Updated equine influenza vaccine An outbreak of equine influenza (EF) occurred during 2008-09 was caused by equine influenza virus of subtype H3N8 belonging to Clade 2 of Florida sub lineage, which was different from the virus that caused EI outbreak in 1986-87. Therefore, previously developed vaccine was updated using A/eq/Katra (Jammu)/06/08 (H3N8) virus with HA content of 20 µg/dose. Field trials resulted in development of protective antibody titres, without any adverse reactions or clinical signs, following booster vaccination after four weeks. The technology was released to the nation. It will be very useful for vaccinating the animals, which are under continuous movement inside and outside the country. Equine Equine infectious diseases: Sero-prevalence of equine piroplamosis, equine herpesvirus 1 (EHV1), surra and Japanese encephalitis (JE) was 43.4, 10.8, 4.7 and 4.6%, respectively.