 Technology growth slowed down but growth rate accelerated in liberalized economy; 4. Demand-and-price driven growth in horticulture and livestock with livestock heading to took over crops. Growth rate in output of different groups of crops and agri products showed that first 15 years beginning plan period show highest growth in crop output. Beginning Green Revolution, superiority of rice and wheat was established over pulses and other cereals. Rice and wheat experienced faster growth rate, whereas millets and pulses suffered decleration and even negative growth in some period. In recent years pulses growth revived after 2004- 05 and oilseeds growth lost momentum beginning in 1991 leading to heavy import dependence. State wise growth in gross value added crop sector and total agriculture showed that in most states growth rate of total agriculture is robust but growth rate of crop sector varies from 3.6–1 per cent. Within the crop sector the major source of growth is due to Prof. Ramesh Chand is at present a member of the NITI Aayog, a policy think tank of Government of India. He has been in the policy formulation of the agriculture sector since the past two-and-a half decades. 10 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series horticulture. Share of crop sector started squeezing it was 65.4 during 2011-12 and reduced to 55.3 per cent during 2018-19. This is a wake-up call for crop scientists and policy makers to prioritise research and make policies keeping in the view present trends in food system. A major change in workforce in agriculture was observed with the growth of non- agriculture during 2001-2011 which involved shift of workers from agriculture. Food intake and nutrition: There is mismatch in growth of food output in the country and decline in undernutrition. This is also termed as “An Indian Enigma”. India being food surplus country and net exporter, but nutrition and health of people is falling behind. Nutrition levels are low and Undernourished population in India is 15.3 per cent, anemia in women 15-49 years of age is 53 per cent. There are some myths about Indian agriculture such as feminization of agriculture. Actual data shows that while 73 per cent of total rural female workers are employed in agriculture they constitute 30 per cent of total agriculture workforce. Fertilizer use is much imbalanced at state level. The field crops where government interventions are high the growth rate is low 1.15 per cent and in fishery sector where public intervention and support was very low growth rate was highest i.e. 7.45 per cent. This shows that more liberalized sector, higher the growth. Lesser govt. intervention higher the growth. Putting more resources in subsidies and support do not lead to growth if demand side factors do not support.