 ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 86 After careful discussions, the following suggestions have been made: yy CIP to facilitated import of elite clones including 57 biofortified clones for testing trials in India; 419 more lines are under importation and screened further. yy CIP to consider replicating the model potato village as in Gingia, Assam yy There would be shortage of fresh potatoes in the western countries as most companies would reopen only after lockdown due to covid-19. Therefore, it was agreed to have more seeds for export. Director, CPRI however affirmed that the export has already begun even during lockdown situations. Over all, the progress made under ICAR-CIP Partnership was satisfactory. This was followed by open discussion amongst ICAR and CG Partners who all expressed the importance and relevance of this partnership for the cause of Indian agriculture. After a detailed deliberation, the following general action points were decided: yy It was agreed that ‘taking it to field’ is important to realize the impacts of outputs/results. This needs further discussion with concerned SMDs and DDG (Ext). yy The CG Centres should not work in silos in order to avoid duplicity and enhance impacts. yy The field visits would not be ‘business as usual’ because of COVID-19. Therefore, alternate pathways for work implementation needs to be considered. ICAR did underline the importance of a SOP/framework or protocol for field-based activities, as this is going to be a new normal. yy The products (virtual, documents, and others) emerging out of this ICAR-CGIAR partnership should be informed to DARE/ICAR periodically and are to be systematically promoted to realize the impact of this collaboration. yy With regard to One CGIAR initiative, further discussions would be required to develop a mechanism for CG Centres working in India. DG ICRISAT was requested to take the lead in consultation with all the other CG centres and draw a framework for action. yy Every CG Centre should inform every activity/ project that they perform within the country even beyond the Work Plan. (Action: All CG Centres) yy CG Centres involving KVKs should keep the DDG (Extension) informed and similarly the activity that has footprints of engineering and other disciplines to be informed to respective DDGs. (Action: All CG Centres) yy Every CG Centre is to provide all other funding sources for their work activities in India, as they are important to continue India’s membership of the CG System Council. DARE and ADG (IR), ICAR should be kept informed of this periodically. (Action: All CG Centres) yy A brief ATR for the previous year action points be given during progress review meeting. (Action: All CG Centres) yy Opening of new centres/institutions by the CG Centres is discouraged. However, prior to proposing such centre opening to any Central Govt department or any State Govt.