 Studies by Sen (1984, 1985) and Ranis et al. (2000) put human beings at the end and established that economic growth is important for enhancing capabilities and thus promoting human development. On the other hand, studies driven by the endoge- nous growth theory consider human beings as the means of economic growth (Romer, 1990; Krueger and Lindahl, 2001). 1.1. Conceptualization and objective In this context, without disregarding the contributions of the earlier studies, the current study investigates how the use of CSAT affects the subjective well-being (Quality of life) of the farmers of Odisha, India. The literature has used the concept of happiness as a strong indicator of the subjective well-being of an individual and/or household. It involves the holistic pleasure of an individual, which includes cultural, spiritual, so- cial, political, economic, and psychological factors. This can be traced back to the days of Adam Smith, who identiﬁed the importance of rela- tive wealth in happiness. Subsequent thinkers, like Bentham (1879), have also highlighted the importance of happiness in an individual's life, and the perspective of well-being is slowly shifting from proﬁt to welfare (Pigou, 1912; Scitovsky, 1976; Sen, 1985). However, welfare economists had been analyzing the means of happiness (Ng, 1997) until 1972, when the 4th King of Bhutan (King Jigme Singey Wangchuck) drew the atten- tion of the world to its new perspective of the gross national happiness (GNH) index. The idea behind this index is to maintain a balance be- tween material (i.e., money and property), and non-material (i.e., cul- ture, environment, spirituality, society, and community well-being of life) (Gupta and Agrawal, 2017). This index gained the attention of policymakers in various countries around the world, and the United Nations General Assembly accepted happiness as an independent goal for all countries of the world in 2011. What better occasion than post-COVID-19 to make people understand the importance of happiness, which is the outcome of subjective well-being or the quality of life of individuals? Against this background, the research question to be addressed here is: What is the impact of the use of CSAT on the subjective well-being or quality of life of the farmers? In order to answer the above-mentioned research question, the pre- sent study has tried to assess the impact of the use of CSAT on happiness (measured through the Index of Happiness, i.e., HI2). The well-being of the farmers could also have been captured in the form of economic outcomes such as farmers’ income and/or food security. However, as mentioned earlier, subjective well-being or the quality of life is under- stood as some non-income, social, behavioural, and demographic mile- stones that are also affected by the culture and agroecological systems of the studied region, i.e., Odisha, India.