1% formalin-inactivated vaccine with healthy cells with no morphological changes, (B) Cells incubated with 0.3% formalin-inactivated vaccine showing rounding and vacuolation of cells, (C) Similar rounding and vacuolation of cells were also observed in the cells treated with 0.5% formalin-inactivated vaccine leading to cluster formation in FtGF cells. Elongation of the cells and detachment of cells was observed in the FtGF cell lines inoculated with 0.7%, (D) and (E) 1% formalin-inactivated CyHV-2, (F) Control cells with no incubation with vaccine showing healthy cells. recombinant pET 32a (+) vector, with and without IPTG induction. • For management of phytophagous mites in apple orchards and polyhouses of Himachal Pradesh, survey studies were conducted in different agro- climatic regions of Himachal Pradesh, viz. temperate, sub-temperate and sub-tropical. Out of 28 species of mites identified, 8 species were new to the state and few species belonging to the family Stigmaeidae were recorded for the first time in India. • Formalin-inactivated whole CyHV-2 vaccine prepared in fantail goldfish fin (FtGF) cell line showed a significant up-regulation of the genes CD8 and IFN-Ò by the 6 h post-vaccination onwards in vaccinated goldfish, and experimental challenge in immunized goldfish showed the relative survival of 81.3% after 30 days of post- vaccination. • A standard feeding schedule for rainbow trout farming practices was determined and developed for the first time for economical and eco-friendly trout production in the Himalayas. • The protocols for broodstock development up- scaled, breeding, larval rearing and fingerling production of striped snakehead (Channa striatus), for species diversification and conservation, first- time, hatchery-produced and feed-weaned fingerling of striped murrel (Channa striata) were successfully reared to brood size with complete maturity in captive condition on the commercial pellet diets with 85% survival in 18 months. • To transfer the technology of induced breeding and seed production of striped murrel to stakeholders, distributed hatchery-produced and feed-weaned 300 one-year-old yearlings and 515 fingerlings for raising broodstock. • The application Genebank to Genbank was launched for public use (http://www.nbpgr.ernet.in/ News_Details/aid/253.aspx). Application accessible at: pgrinformatics.nbpgr.ernet.in/g2g, which is a web-enabled application developed for accessing information on material conserved in Medium Term Storage modules of genebank system. An application combining information on all complementary conservation strategies was developed. The application is accessible at: Genebank ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 116 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT pgrinformatics.nbpgr. ernet.