 The team of scientists from ICAR- NBFGR traveled to the field with the cryopreserved sperm and necessary material. The eggs were used from the stock available at hatcheries. Initially, the hatchery owners were reluctant to this new venture and could provide a limited number of females. The sperm were cryopreserved using 2 ml cryovials (optimized in place of commonly used 0.5 cc French medium straws). The males were sourced from the stock available at Germplasm Resource Center at ICAR-NBFGR, raised from wild collected fingerlings from the Ganga river system. The cryopreserved milt was supplied to different partner hatcheries for seed production in commercial hatcheries. The fertilization was carried out using easy-to-use tools and on the large scale under real-time conditions of commercial seed production. In the hatchery, two populations were produced i.e., one from cryo-milt (outbred with a cross of sperm from ICAR-NBFGR) and another from fresh milt (local inbred). In total, the 126 lakhs spawn (cross-bred) were produced in 38 hatcheries located in 11 states during 2019-2022. The work demonstrated that cryobanking can be used as a technology for genetic exchange and outbreeding between hatcheries. This will need future strategies and enabling policies to establish sperm cryobanks. Feedback from the stakeholders The feedback from the stakeholders has been very important while planning the course of this program. With first- hand experience, the hatchery professional/seed producers have indicated an interest in exploring the new possibilities of commercial benefit such as early and late breeding and availability of seed by using cryopreserved milt, when prices are high. Under these conditions, though eggs are available, seed cannot be produced due to lack of milt. The seed producers also expected a reduction in the cost of rearing males and avoiding the risk of losses due to poaching. In the long run, seed producers were enthusiastic to expand the program to develop sperm cryobank, at individual farm levels, and cooperative or state- sponsored cryobanks established at regional levels. These benefits can be accrued through evolving a working strategy to use for broodstock improvement through enabling genetic exchange. The future might bring in the era of systematic cross- Various components of model carp sperm cryobank at ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow Transfer of fertilized eggs into incubation pool of eco-hatchery at Raisen, Madhya Pradesh Carp Sperm Cryobank Carp Sperm Cryobank Indian Farming 24 November 2023 breeding for the genetic fitness of broodstock and seed. This can be possible by establishing the Live Germplasm Resource Centers with broodstock of certified origin and evaluation and traceability data; which supply sperm or fingerlings for developing broodstock for sperm banks. This will enable certification and traceability in the carp seed value chain, and improve quality for a resilient carp seed production system in the country.