 Winter vegetable Cole Crops (cauliflower, cabbage, and broccoli) Nursery sowing of cauliflower hybrids (Gibount, Fusiyama, Casper RZ, Swati, Shweta, Bio pearl white) in August-September & July -August (Mid group) and (Pahuja-71 & IAHS-9803) in October- November & September (Late group) in low & Mid hills and April- May (Late group) in high hills of HP for healthy seedlings on raised ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 18 beds or poly trays or under protected structure. Nursery sowing of Cabbage hybrids (Pusa cabbage hybrid 1, Pusa cabbage hybrid-81, Varun, Pushkar) should be completed in August–September in low and mid hills for healthy seedlings on raised beds or poly trays or under protected structure, while transplanting should be completed from October – January. Nursery sowing of Broccoli varieties/ hybrids (Palam Samridhi, Palam Haritika, Palam Kanchan, Palam Vachitra, KTS-I and Punjab Broccoli-I.) should be completed in September to October in low & Mid hills. Apply FYM@ 200 -250 q per ha at the time of field preparation, NPK @120-180: 75-80: 60-75 kg per ha. Full dose of phosphorus and one-third of N and half of potassium should be applied at the time of transplanting. Remaining part of N should be top dressed at an interval of one month each while half of potassium is to be applied along with N during second top dressing. Borex can be added in the soil for the management of browning in cauliflower First light irrigation should be given immediately after transplanting of the seedlings and regular maintenance of optimum moisture is essential during growth and curd development. The harvesting of curds is to be done as soon as the curds attain prime maturity and compactness Harvesting of broccoli heads at correct time i.e., before the buds open and when the bud clusters are compact Damping off of seedlings is major problem in cole crops and for its control applies Mancozeb 25 g + carbendazim 10 g per 10 litres of water. Seed treatment with hot water (50 0C) and streptocycline (1g/ 10 L water) for 30 minutes each is advised for protection against black rot. In case of attack of aphids and cabbage butterfly, malathion @ 1ml/ L can be applied. Cypermethin @1mlL can be applied for protection against cut worms at early stage. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 19 Garden Pea The sowing of important early pea varieties (Arkel, Palm Triloki, GS-10, AS-10) should be completed in September- October in low and mid hills & March- June in high hills. The sowing of main season pea varieties viz., PB-89, Him Palam Matar-1, AP-3, GS-10 should be completed in late October – November in low and mid hills & October – Mid November in high hills of HP. Application of FYM@ 20 -30 tons, 20-50 kg nitrogen, 30- 60 kg phosphorus and 30-60 kg potassium per ha should be applied at the time of sowing based on fertility status of the soil. First hoeing and earthing up should be completed after 2-3 weeks of sowing and second at flower initiation for higher yield.