 □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 366 Use of kochila (Strychnos nux-vomica)-mixed cowdung compost in brinjal for controlling fruit and shoot borer : Cowdung, 10 kg kochila (Strychnos nux-vomica) seed powder and 25 kg kochila leaf are put in a compost pit of 10x3x3 feet by mixing thoroughly.Then 10 litres cow urine is added to the pit for 10 consecutive days and covered with soil. After 2 months the compost becomes ready. This compost (5 g) is added to each plant once at the time of sowing and at 45 days after planting. Due to its repellent action, incidence of shoot and fruit borer is reduced. : Shri Bivison Pradhan, Badakodanda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam, (Orissa) 761 126 Badakodanda, Bhanjanagar.Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 OUAT, Bhubaneshwar 1. Dr A.K.Das, Associate Professor, Department of Horticulture, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubnaneshwar 751 003 (Orissa); Shri N. Nayak, Training Organiser, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhanjanagar (Orissa); Shri D. Maohapatra, Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Barachana (Orissa) 2. BCKV, Mohanpur (West Bengal); Dr S.K. Mandal, Professor, Department of Entomology, BCKV, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal) 3. Dr S.K. Naskar, Head, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Regional Centre, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) METHODOLOGY Location The efficacy of kochila-mixed cowdung compost for controlling fruit and shoot borer was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. These were conducted at village Badakodanda, Bhanjanagar, dist. Ganjam, Orissa. Experiment The experiment was conducted by OUAT at two sites at (i) Badakodanda village, and (ii) KVK, Bhanjanagar, with three treatments: (i) kochila-mixed cowdung compost applied @ 5 g/plant at planting and @ 10 g/plant after 45 days of transplanting (ITK method); (ii) chemical pesticide (granular) at planting @ 10 kg a.i./ha, monocrotophos 15 days after transplanting, endosulfan 15 days after transplanting, Nukil 60 days after transplanting and Sevin-75 days after transplanting; and (iii) without any treatment (control). The experiment was laid out in CRD with 15 replications. The variety used was Bhanjanagar Local. Observations were taken on: (i) percentage Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Shoot borer in brinjal of shoot infestation; (ii) percentage of fruit infestation; (iii) fruit weight; (iv) number of fruits/ plant; (v) yield of fruits/plant; (vi) fruit taste; (vii) fruit yield/ha; and (viii) marketable fruit yield. The experiment conducted in 2002-03 was repeated in the village Badakodanda during 2003- 04 following the same package of practices. BCKV conducted the experiment in 2004. An Fruit borer in brinjal additional treatment was imposed with tobacco- soaked water, whereas the three other treatments were the same as that of OUAT.