 A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 350 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 151 Gossypium herbaceum Cotton H-Kapas It is a rich source of cotton. A diploid old world species. It includes small shrubs 2–8 feet high with thick and rigid stems. This species occurs in Africa, Middle East countries, central Asia and western India. Commercially, the cotton belonging to this species constitutes a fairly large percentage of medium stablecotton grown in India. 152 Grewia optiva - H- Biul Kan-Thidsal P-Dhaman The bark yields fibre of inferior quality used for cottage and clothing. It is also reported to be suitable for paper. The leaves and young twigs are used for fodder. A moderate sized tree up to 45 feet high and 4.5 feet in girth with A clear bole of 10–12 feet, distributed from Punjab to Bengal, ascending to an altitude of about 7000 feet. 153 Grewia sclerophylla - H- Pharsia The wood is used for field tools and posts. The stem yields fibre used for making ropes. The root is used in cough and irritable conditions of the intestines and bladder, decoction of it is used as an emolient enema. A small shrub of the tropical Himalayas distributed from Kumaon to Assam ascending to an altitude of 4000 feet. Flowers are white in umbellate cymes. 154 Guazuma ulmifolia - H- Rudraksh B-Nipaltunth Tel-Rudraksh T-Rudrasam Mal- Rudraksham Kan-Rudrakshi O-Debodara The fruit is used as a pectoral in bronchitis. Roasted seeds are considered astringent. Extract of the leaves is said to reduce corpulence. The bark is tonic and demulcent. A small or moderate sized tree with brown rough bark and spreading branches. It is cultivated in garden and as a roadside shade tree in warmer parts of India, especially in south. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 351 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 155 Heliotropium indicum - H-Hattajuri B-Hiti-sura M-Bhurundi G-Hatisund Tel-Nagadamti T-Nakkipoo Kan-Chalukondee Mal-Thekkada O-Hati-Sura The plant is bitter and astringent. It is reported to possess emollient, vulnerary and diuretic properties. It is used as local application for ulcer, sores, wound gum boils, skin affections and rheumatisms. It is also used in poultice. Decoction of tender shoot is reported to be pectoral. Decoction of leaves are used in fever and urticaria. The roots are used in cough and fever. The flowers are considered emmenagogue in small doses and abortifacient a large doses. Seeds are musticated and swallowed and stomachic. A coarse foetid herb up to 2 feet high with ascending hirsute branches found through out India.The flowers are blue or lily.