 Neosporin (day 21) C. Neosporin (day 7) F. Neosporin (day 14) I. Ekdandi (day 21) Conclusion The percentage of wound contraction was more than 32% on day 12 after treatment in the wounds treated with juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves compared with only 18.50% in Neosporin treatment group, indicating early process of wound healing. The histomorphological findings revealed early keratinization of dermal epithelium in both the groups of wounds treated with juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves on day 21 after treatment. However, the keratinization of dermis was not evident of the wounds treated with Neosporin ointment, which indicated better healing property of these herbs. The juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi fresh leaves as well as cold and hot water extracts of fresh leaves of ridge gourd possessed anti-bacterial activity. It was concluded that ridge gourd can be used effectively for treating the wounds contaminated by Staphylococcus aureus, Staphylococcus epidermidis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa and E. coli. The use of ridge gourd (Luffa acutangula) extract was also found safe for topical application on cutaneous wounds and was useful in the treatment of excisional cutaneous wounds in animals. 35 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 7.13 Use of bhangariya (Eclipta alba) to cure blain in animals Description of the ITK To cure the animals from blain, farmers of Sonapur village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh use paste of bhangariya. About 200-250 g of bhangariya plant (leaf and stem) is collected from the field and washed before crushing. The paste is fried in 50-60 ml mustard oil. The fried paste is divided into three parts, which are used in 3 days after changing the old doses. By this practice, 80-90% of the problem is controlled for cattle, buffaloes and goats. Out of 1,200 farmers, 400-500 farmers follow this practice. Name and address of the discloser Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh, S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, village Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 Location of use of the ITK Sonapur, Johanaganj, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128. Experimenters Maharashtra Animal Sciences and Fishery Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr. C.R. Jangde, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology, Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University (TANUVAS) Dr. Capt. G. Dhanan Jaya Rao, Associate Professor, Department of Surgery and Dr. Prathaban, Professor and Head, Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai 600 007 (Tamil Nadu). Results and discussion Results of studies conducted at MASFSU the observation was found that the difference in the diameter of inflammation before and after treatment with poultice and iodine ointment differ significantly within group analysis and was found significant at 1% level. In ITK group, inflammatory swelling was 13.36 cm, which decreased to 3.57 cm after treatment.