 

Parametric and non-parametric indices for agricultural drought assessment using ESACCI soil moisture data over the Southern Plateau and Hills, India Hussain Palagiri , Manali Pal * Department of Civil Engineering, NIT Warangal, Telangana 506004, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: ESACCI SM Agricultural Drought Soil Moisture based Drought Indices Standardized Soil Moisture Index (SSMI) Empirical Standardized Soil Moisture Index (ESSMI) Dynamic Threshold Run Theory (DTRT) A B S T R A C T The European Space Agency (ESA) under the Climate Change Initiative (CCI) has developed a multi-satellite global, daily Soil Moisture (SM) dataset that has paved the ways for agricultural drought studies. To evaluate the performance of this ESACCI SM, two SM-based indices i.e. parametric distribution-based Standardized Soil Moisture Index (SSMI) and non-parametric distribution-based Empirical Standardized Soil Moisture Index (ESSMI) are computed to characterize agricultural drought in the Southern Plateau and Hills (SPH) in India from 1991 to 2020. SSMI and ESSMI are then compared with the Standardized Precipitation Index (SPI) and Stan- dardized Precipitation Evapotranspiration Index (SPEI). The yearly temporal analysis revealed a consistent pattern among all the four indices with 2003 and 2020 marked as the driest and wettest years, respectively. On the other hand, monthly temporal analysis indicated SSMI and ESSMI lagged behind SPI and ESSMI suggesting a delayed response of SM to precipitation. Spatial distributions of indices showed that the SM-based indices effectively capture temporal variations of dryness or wetness across seasons. The near normal and mild to moderate droughts predominated (both spatially and temporally) the SPH and SSMI better captured the extreme drought areas compared to ESSMI. Further, Dynamic Threshold Run Theory (DTRT) is introduced to identify and characterize drought events based on their duration, frequency, intensity and peak. The findings revealed a resemblance in spatial distribution between the duration and frequency. The drought peak and intensity revealed a moderate nature of drought conditions. Overall, this study highlights the effectiveness of ESACCI SM product to characterize the agricultural droughts. 1. Introduction The agrarian sector holds significant importance in India’s economy, constituting 19.9 % of the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (Economic Survey 2020-21, 2022) influencing the country’s socioeconomic well- being. Hence, there is need to monitor, characterize, and predict the agricultural droughts in India particularly for the regions that are most susceptible to droughts. By definition, an agricultural drought is a pro- longed duration of Soil Moisture (SM) deficit causing failure of crops due to water stress (Mishra and Singh, 2010). Consequently, any agricultural drought index should effectively capture the spatial and temporal vari- ations in SM deficits.