 of agricultural importance for disseminating knowledge to Undergraduate and Postgraduate students and to evolve continuously in developing appropriate instructional strategies and methods for enhancing scope of teaching. The financial components of Educational Museum will include new civil work for the establishment of Museum building, contingency for preparation of gross specimens using advance fixation techniques, macro- and micro-photography of specimens and slides, development of advanced educational aids, etc. and equipments like audio-visual equipments, VCD/DVD and computers. All the universities were requested for the specific suggestions, if any for inclusion while drafting the XI Plan proposal. Action: All VCs Agenda 12: Review of Niche areas of excellence ADG (EPD) presented the Agenda. He explained that the programme on Niche areas of Excellence was launched in the Xth Plan for the first time with the objective to achieve educational excellence in teaching, research, consultancy and other services. It was stipulated while formulating the programme that this excellence should update itself in accordance with best of global experiences and trends and of being responsive to regional 11 and national and social and economic needs. The contemplated strategy for building excellence included aspects like niche area identification-brand equity; management of facilities and faculty; limit inbreeding; inputs- public and self-generated; linkages- interfacing and collaborating. It was opined that most of the universities have implemented the Niche Area of Excellence as a research project only. The vision and scope of the Niche areas of excellence as understood today by most centers needs review so that the objectives as envisaged are truly achieved. It was recommended that a team of 7-8 people specifically constituted for the purpose would look after the issue and suggested ways and means to make the programme more effective. Also, specific suggestions were invited from the AUs. Action: All VCs Agenda 13: Establishment of experiential learning units ADG (EPD) presented the Agenda. He informed that a provision of establishment of Experiential Learning units and hands-on-training was made in the Xth Plan for the first time to link education with building professionalism among agricultural graduates. In this backdrop, the ICAR sanctioned a total 183 Experiential Learning units for in 43 Agricultural Universities. All the AUs were highly appreciative of the programme and need for more such units was stressed in XI Plan period. Also, need for some recurring contingency to such units was considered important. Working out possibility of linking objectives of present programme on RAWE and internship with the Experiential Learning units was also recommended. Action: DDG (Edu)/All VCs Agenda 14: Accreditation ADG (EQR) presented the Agenda.