 And main reason for dowry and domestic violence is that our girls are not self-dependent. Change of mind set is required, we should raise our daughter like we raise our sons and give them equal rights, then only the desired change would come. Key takeaways Society should be gender neutral to give equal opportunities to all. In social environment, starting from home, children should be given equal growing opportunities to be good citizens of the country. All citizens have to be sensitive to the needs of the weaker sector of the society. 208 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series LAND REFORMS IN AGRICULTURE WAY FORWARD Navniti Prasad Singh Land reform is the major step of government to assist people living under adverse conditions. It is basically redistribution of land from those who have excess of land to those who do not possess any land. Uniform ownership of land would prevent exploitation of tenant farmers and in a way would help reducing rural poverty. Land reforms are divided into two groups— pre-Independence and post-Independence. Pre-Independence Under the British Raj, the farmers didn’t have the ownership of the lands they cultivated; it lied with the Zamindars, Jagirdars etc. Leasing out land was a common practice. Land records were in an extremely bad shape giving rise to a mass of litigation. One problem of the agriculture was that the land was fragmented into very small parts for commercial farming. It resulted in inefficient use of soil, capital and labour in the form of boundary lands and boundary disputes. Post-Independence A committee, under the Chairmanship of J. C. Kumarappan was appointed to look into the problem of land. The Kumarappa Committee’s report recommended com- prehensive agrarian reform measures. The Land Reforms of the Independent India had four components — The Justice Navniti Prasad Singh was former Chief Justice, Kerala High Court. He practised in Commercial, Taxation and Constitutional matters and is empanelled as an Arbitrator with the Delhi International Arbitration Centre (DIAC), Indian Institute of Arbitration and Mediation (IIAM), PhD Chamber of Commerce, International and Domestic Arbitration Centre (IDAC). 209 Social Issues and Sports Abolition of the Intermediaries, Tenancy Reforms, Fixing Ceilings on Landholdings and Consolidation of Landholdings. Abolition of the Intermediaries: The first important legislation was the abolition of the zamindari system, which removed intermediaries between the cultivators and the state. This reform was relatively the most effective one. In most areas, it succeeded in taking away the rights of the zamindars over the land and also in weakening their economic and political power. However, zamindari abolition did not wipe out landlordism or the tenancy or sharecropping systems, which continued in many areas. Tenancy Reforms: After passing the Zamindari Abolition Acts, the next major problem was of tenancy regulation.