 ICAR Ident blic/quasi-pu Universities ch in agricu d importance ecific perio widely circu including IC ral universi organize ution will b cial assistanc king into acc nancial assist holding nat body, and u for internat 10.00 lakhs. 00 lakhs for category jou category jou uncil. e recipient so ication of jou restricted to tion Act 186 holding xpert ional post- ified ublic and lture e for d, to ulate, CAR ities, the be on ce to count tance ional up to ional r ’A’ urnals urnals ciety urnal only 60, is a seminar/symposium/conference/ expert consultation. The National and International events will be treated independently and each proposal would be considered on merit. The ICAR Headquarters and its Institutes and agricultural universities will be eligible for holding the seminar/symposium/conference on ICAR identified Priority Themes only. Normally, not more than two seminars/symposia/ conferences on ICAR identified Priority Theme Area will be considered for a body in a year. Journals will be eligible for annual grant as per Rule 3.0 and 4.2.2. 5 Purpose and Utilization of Grant. 5.1 For publication of scientific journals (Hard Copy/Online 5.1.1 Secretarial assistance. 5.1.2 Honorarium to editorial staff. 5.1.3 Stationery including cost of paper, postage and duplication of articles. 5.1.4 Cost of printing and binding etc. 5.1.5 Incidental expenses such as cost of freight from the printing press to the registered office of the concerned organization. 5.1.6 For purchase and maintenance of software 5.2 For holding of seminars/symposia/conferences 5.2.1 Secretarial assistance. 5.2.2 Stationery 5.2.3 Incidental expenses e.g. hiring of transport, audio-visual equipment and auditorium. 5.2.4 Organizing scientific exhibitions/poster presentations. 5.2.5 Printing of Circulars/Abstracts/Souvenir/Proceedings/Invited Lectures. 5.2.6 Meeting travel expenses for invitees at National and International symposia/Seminars/Conferences for not more than a total of sixteen persons of whom ten will be Speakers/Chairpersons, and six young scientists/Ph.D. students (below 35 years of age) whose presentations (oral or poster) were adjudged best by a properly constituted committee. International experts will be maximum two, to the extent of local hospitality. 6. Procedure for submitting application 6.1 Separate applications will be made for financial assistance for holding symposia/seminars/conferences, and for publication of Journal. 6.2 The application should be made on the proforma prescribed by the ICAR [Annexure (I) & (II)], copy of which can be obtained on request or downloaded from ICAR website www.icar.org.in. The completed proforma are required to be submitted for consideration in each case of grant for Journal by 15th September every year and for grant for National/International events as per deadline given under 6.6. 6.