 Drip irrigation prevents disease by minimizing water contact with the leaves, stems, and fruit of plants. By following the other Good Horticultural Practices, viz. reduce leaching of water and nutrients below the root zone, manage insects and mites by using insecticidal soaps and horticultural oils on soft-bodied insects and mites, hand-picking of larger insects such as tomato hornworms, farmers can grow healthy seedlings of vegetables in a protected environment. Farmers can earn more profit by using modern technology. Studies carry out at different locations shows that crops grown vertically increases yield three times than when they were allowing to run on the ground. *Corresponding author’s email: agk.reddy@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 22 May 2023 Quinoa: A climate resilient crop for sustainable livelihood security of small and marginal farmers of Odisha B S Satapathy, D K Panda, S K Rautaray and S Pradhan* ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 023 Government of India has included quinoa under Millet Mission as a pseudo millet crop for its wide adoption. The speciality of this crop lies with the nutritional and medicinal value, and its ability to grow in marginal lands under moderate moisture deficit and salinity stress. The crop can be fitted to rice fallows of eastern India with minimum water and pest management practices. An average yield of 1.0–1.5 t/ha is generally reported under field conditions, though its potential yield is up to 4 t/ha. High market value of quinoa seeds (`150/kg), low cost of cultivation and stress tolerance of the crop has scope for crop diversification in eastern India. In addition to the local market, the international market should be explored for export of high-quality quinoa grains. This may help in enhancing the profit margin further. Keywords: Climate smart crop, Crop intensification, Economics, Quinoa Indian Farming 73 (05): 22-24; May 2023 Q UINOA (Chenopodium quinoa Willd.) belonging to family Amaranthaceae is a C3 Andean grain crop. It is cultivated in more than 120 countries worldwide including Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Columbia, Chile, Brazil France, England, Sweden, Denmark, Holland, Italy, several African counties, Turkey, Greece, Morocco, China, India, Pakistan, New Zealand, Australia, Canada, United States and the Mediterranean regions in an area of 126 thousand hectares with a production of 103 thousand tonnes. The crop is gradually gaining popularity since it is well adapted to marginal soils, and can be grown under extreme abiotic stress like drought, salinity and temperature. Quinoa grains are rich in protein (14–18%), fat (6%) and minerals, while also being gluten-free and well balanced with essential amino acids. Its nutritional values and ability to grow in marginal land and produces reasonably well under abiotic stress has contributed substantially to food and nutritional security of several regions of world.