 In young plantations, if manuring and Azolla is practiced, the space requirement will be much lower and about 2-3 m2/bird space (grown) is sufficient. Improvement in orchard ecosystem The birds derived their food from the pupa, larvae, maggot and borers underneath the mango canopy, as a result the technology reduced the mango pest population and requirement for pesticide sprays. Certain bird strains such as Kadaknath exhibited high flight and fed on mango hoppers and leaf webber insect situated on upper canopy. Reduced weed population in mango orchards was observed owing to integration or rural poultry. Each bird in a mango orchard supplemented 45 kg manure in the form of droppings in its entire life cycle. Orchard having flock size of 500 birds gets around 225 quintal of poultry manure. Birds while scavenging, pulverized the soil and ensured better aeration. The mango orchards which integrated rural poultry were found to have improved orchard ecosystem requiring lesser pesticide which results in reduced cost of production. Sustainability of the system Many profitable models developed by researchers disappeared once the interventions dependent on outside input or lack of expertise stopped. Keeping in view the facts, this model was developed to have simplicity, easy adaptability and cost effectiveness. The shelters are sustainable for 3-5 years except replacing the polysheets, bamboo structures, etc. The capital investment is around R5,000-10,000 and thus can be easily adapted by resource poor farmers. Marketability is also not a problem as raw chicken or its products or produce have wide market acceptance everywhere. The only remaining input are chicks and Azolla. Azolla in north Indian climate can propagate itself in 2 seasons extending upto 8-9 months. Therefore, saving seed in extreme cold and hot situations, supportive techniques/ measures developed need incorporation in the system. It is discussed under feeding practices. The main input is continuous chick supply in the system and it is still a major challenge. The lower egg production by parental stock and thus lesser chicks per hen limits the profitability of the commercial ventures. This is reason why private hatcheries are not producing the chicks needed for such system. Another factor is demand of chicks which can create interest of private entrepreneurs. The hatcheries in Government sector neither have the capacity nor the will to do so. As the demand will increase the local youth will come forward for entrepreneurship. Private hatcheries with established infrastructures and operational facilities will be compelling to participate and share the market demand as soon as the model adoptability will increase. In such scenario, following interventions are being recommended/ adopted locally wherever, the models are being practiced by farmers. Constraints in integrating rural poultry with mango orchards 1. Low productivity 2. High mortality rates in tropical conditions 3.