 Postal Address: ICAR-DCFR, Anusandhan Bhawan, Industrial Area, Bhimtal-263136, Nainital, Uttarakhand. ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Pramod Kumar Pandey iii. Email address / Phone No: dcfrin@gmail.com / 05942-247280, 247279 2. Mandate and activities ICAR-DCFR undertakes research for sustainable fisheries management and developing location and system-specific aquaculture technologies for coldwater regions for enhanced productivity. • Basic, strategic and applied research in coldwater fisheries and aquaculture. • Act as a repository of information on the hill fisheries resources. • Human Resource Development through training, education and extension. 3. Salient achievements • Developed GIS-based aquatic resource maps for planning, sustainable utilization and development of fisheries and aquaculture in Indian Himalayan regions. • Developed packages of practices for commercially-important coldwater fish species viz., rainbow trout for enhancing productivity and production. • Developed cost-effective feed for different life stages of rainbow trout. • Developed breeding and seed production technologies of diversified coldwater species including mahseers and snow-trouts for stock enhancement and conservation. • Established and demonstrated Re-circulatory Aquaculture System (RAS) for intensive rainbow trout culture. • Developed a multi-tier model for integrated fish farming using polytanks in the mid-hill region. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Design and layout for establishing golden mahseer and rainbow trout hatchery and farm for seed production and grow-out culture, and Re-circulatory Aquaculture System (RAS) for intensive rainbow trout culture. 175 Fisheries Science 175 • Starter and grow-out feed for rainbow trout seed rearing and grow-out farming; and diagnostic kits for identification of bacterial and fungal pathogens of coldwater aquaculture species. • Human resource development through training & demonstration and consultancy. 176 ICAR Institutes Profile 176 ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CIFT, CIFT Junction, Willingdon Island, Matsyapuri P.O., Cochin-682029, Kerala. ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Leela Edwin iii. Email address: ciftdirector@gmail.com / Phone No: 0484-2412300 2. Mandate and activities ICAR-CIFT is dedicated to catering to the research needs in designing resource-specific gears and fuel-efficient fishing boats/vessels, product development, processing & value addition and quality control. The four research centers have been undertaking region-specific research, technology dissemination and technical support to the industry. • Basic and strategic research in fishing and processing. • Design and development of energy-efficient fishing systems for responsible fishing and sustainable management. • Development of implements and machinery for fishing and fish processing.