 Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 17 Vegetative barriers for soil and water conservation The use of vegetation to moderate erosivity of rainfall both in natural stream and also in slopy arable fields is an age old practice in rainfed agriculture. The farmers in Shekhavati region of Rajasthan, North Gujarat semi-arid region and South Karnataka plant Saccharum munja, Euphorbia caducifolia and Nasehallu Pennisetum honekeri, respectively along the field boundaries to reduce the runoff and soil loss. In Kandi area, plant species of Spurs (Ipomea imperata, Vitex negundo, Arundo donex) are planted Venkateswarlu (2000) 5 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference along the field boundaries. Thus a vegetative barrier used by the farming community are highly location- specific in terms of establishment and further use beside conservation measures. In Shekavati region of Rajasthan, S.munja is used for planting on bigger bunds, 1 m high or more to stabilize them as they are sandy soils. Choues and spurs plant species are used for effective conservation of moisture in soil (Rajasthan, Gujarat, Karnataka and Punjab). 18 Application of groundnut shell to conserve moisture Leftover groundnut shells, after decortication of pods, are uniformly spread and incorporated @2–3 tonnes/ha at the time of preparatory cultivation. This is usually practiced by big farmers. This is done in rotation, part of the land area is covered in one year and the rest in subsequent years depending upon the availability of shell. This practice is also used in orchards to reduce the evaporation losses (Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh). Anonymous (1999a) 19 Use of finger millet husk as mulch Fingermillet husk used as mulch is less affected by termites, checks evaporation and weed growth. Termites fail to get a foot hold and hence their incidence is reduced (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 20 Pebble mulching to control runoff A uniform layer of pebble is spread on the surface of the red soil to reduce the evaporation losses. This practice also helps to control the runoff and reduce the formation of gullies in the field. The yield of the crops can be increased by 75–80% (Bijapur and Bhagalkot, Karnataka). Anonymous (1996b) 21 Use of dry leaves for mulching in cardamom Mulching with dry leaves in cardamom helps in retaining moisture in soil by reducing evaporation and to check weeds and coceal capsule from vertibrate pests (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 22 Use of tree needles and grasses for mulching for conservation of soil moisture Covering the soil surface with Chilgoza tree needles and grass from the Kandas (hill top) not only conserves soil moisture but also helps in moderation of soil temperature. In this way, hydrothermal regime of the soil is improved (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT S. No.