 The two sequences obtained from the same buffalo were much divergent from each other indicating possible presence of two different populations of ncp strain in the animal. One of these sequences matched almost exactly (4.4% divergence) with the sequence obtained from the aforementioned bull. This result showed that, ncp strains differing in the NS3 region are present in the country. Bovine Immunodeficiency Virus (BIV) DNA samples were tested for the presence of pro viral DNA sequences by southern hybridization using radio-labeled gag probe in the presence of formamide in bovine immunodeficiency disease. Three each of the blood and milk DNA samples were identified positive for the presence of proviral DNA of BIV. Six DNA samples, which tested positive in hybridization were subjected to PCR using oligonucleotide primers specific for the ‘gag’, capsid region (p26) and transmembrane (tm) sequences of the BIV strain R 29. Two of these DNA samples yielded amplicons of expected size with all the primer combinations. Selected amplicons were cloned and nucleotide sequence is under determination. The rest four DNA samples are being investigated for possible sequence divergence in the primer binding regions. SUCCESS STORY AVIAN INFLUENZA TYPE A VIRUS INFECTION IN POULTRY Serum samples (400) were collected/ received from the birds with clinical symptoms of respiratory illness from organized poultry farms in Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Padesh Chandigarh, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh and Jammu and Kashmir. None of the serum samples was positive for antibodies to avian influenza virus. Total RNA was extracted from 56 tissue samples and subjected to RT-PCR targeting AIV type A specific nucleotide sequences of matrix and nucleo protein genes, and subtypes specific sequences of haemagglutinin genes of H5 and H7 subtypes. None of the tissue samples was found positive with all 4 sets of primers. Isolation of virus in embryonated chicken eggs and primary chicken embryo kidney cells was attempted but the materials were negative as assessed by HA test. In August 2001, the pigeon serum samples received from the Chennai Quarantine Station, were tested for avian influenza. The pigeons were imported unauthorized by some personal and had no animal health certificate and previous history. Around 60% of the pigeons were found positive for antibodies to H7 subtype (1 : 16 to 1 : 512 titers) by HI assay. The pigeons were destroyed on the recommendations of the Director, HSADL, Bhopal, to the Department of animal Husbandry and Dairying, Government of India. Efforts were made for isolation of virus using chicken embryos and primary chicken embryo kidney cells from the tissue of the pigeons. The total RNA extracted from 10 tissue samples was tested by influenza virus type A specific RT-PCR and found negative. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 107 Monoclonal antibodies were produced against recombinant gag protein of BIV.