 Potato leafhoppers, Amrasca biguttula biguttula (Ishida) (Hemiptera: Cicadellidae) Economic importance: Potato leafhopper is a polyphagous pest distributed worldwide and causes major loss to potato crop. In India, the leafhoppers are distributed in all potato growing regions of Indo- Gangetic plains. There are several species of leafhoppers and among them-Amrasca biguttula biguttula (Ishida), Alebroides nigroscutulatus Distant, Empoasca solanifolia Pruthi, Empoasca kerrimotti Pruthi, E. fabae Harris, and E. Punjabensis Pruthi are important which damage potato crop. Both the nymphs and adults of the leafhoppers suck the sap from lower side of the leaves causing extensive damage by direct feeding of the plants. The late instar nymphs are more harmful and cause almost twice yield losses as compared to the adults. They also inject a toxin into the plant, which causes yellowing, browning, cupping and curling of leaves that can be easily identified in the form of triangular mark of burn, at the tip of the leaf. In potato, the leaf veins turn yellow, the leaf margins turn brown and brittle followed by drying of entire leaf. The severely infested field gives a burnt look appearing in a circular ring commonly known as “hopper burn”. Yield losses can be tremendous if the pest is not controlled within 30-40 days of planting. Symptoms of apical leaf curl virus Amrasca biguttula Whitefly Indian Horticulture 42 Biology: The life cycle of the pest is completed in about one month. The leafhopper lays 18-22 eggs in veins and petioles. These are transparent and pale yellow in colour. They hatch in about 7-10 days and the newly hatched nymph is yellow in colour. Five nymphal-instar period lasts for 12 days. The nymphs and adults are pale green, slightly wedge-shaped. They move diagonally when disturbed. The total life cycle is completed in 25-35 days depending upon weather conditions. Management: Crop rotation with suitable non-host crops and maintaining proper isolation distance in potato crop would reduce the pest population. Judicious use of nitrogenous fertilizers and balanced plant nutrition checks the hopper multiplication. Early planted potato crop must be protected from leafhoppers through foliar spray of systemic insecticides. Spraying late in the day or in the evening may provide better control than spraying early in the morning. Potato leafhopper is attacked by a variety of natural enemies, including generalist predators (lady beetles, damsel bugs, minute pirate bugs and lace wings) and egg parasitoids (Anagrus spp.) of the family Mymaridae. Thrips, Thrips palmi Karny (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) Economic importance: More than seven species have been found infecting potato crop. T. palmi is the predominant species and most efficient vector of stem necrosis disease caused by Groundnut bud necrosis virus belonging to Tospo virus group. Thrips population moves from the preceeding crop to the other cultivated host plants and weeds in the vicinity.