 Improvements in this approach with continuous and coordinated efforts shall help in developing and deploying high-yielding and climate resilient varieties as well as practices of moth bean for diversified agri-food systems in the arid regions. NDIA Keywords: Arid, CFLDs, Frontline extension, Income, Mothbean, Pulses, Rajasthan is a global leader in production and against a diverse array of abiotic and biotic stresses that consumption of pulses. It shares about 25% of the global pulse production and consumes nearly 27% of it. While the grains of pulses are the rich source of plant protein to a large vegetarian masses in the country, the intrinsic capacity of pulses to assimilate atmospheric nitrogen through root-rhizobia symbiosis and its biomass once incorporated in the soil adds to sustainability of pulse based production systems. The pulses, in a given cropping system, economises applied nitrogen requirement to subsequent cereals to the tune of 30-40 kg/ha. In India, more than a dozens of pulses such as chickpea, pigeonpea, mungbean, urdbean, lentil, field pea, french bean, horse gram, moth bean, cowpea, lathyrus, etc. are cultivated in different cropping seasons and situations across the country. Mothbean (Vigna aconitifolia) is an important pulse crop of arid region due to its-inherent adaptive attributes to withstand Indian Farming commonly limit the yield of other pulse crops of the vigna species. This crop is predominantly grown in the arid region of Rajasthan. The total acreage under moth bean during 2021-22 was 9.93 lakh ha with total harvest of 3.43 lakh tonnes at 346 kg/ha productivity. Of the total production, 94% is produced in Rajasthan (AGRISTAT, 2021). The acreage, production and productivity of mothbean in India is given in Table 1. Demand and supply of pulses The working group of NITI Aayog on Demand and Supply projection for agricultural commodities and inputs estimated a consumption demand of 35.23 million tonnes in 2032-33 (Fig. 1). The deficit in demand and supply are met through imports which is about 14% global trade of pulses. Over the years, this deficit has reduced substantially due to significant increase March 2024 21 Indian Farming 22 March 2024 in pulses production since 2013-14 onwards. However, being largely rain dependent crop and grown in stressed conditions, the intermittent productivity shocks are not uncommon causing shortfalls in supply and forces for imports to meet the consumption demands. In order to meet the projected demand of 35.23 million tonnes of pulses by 2032-33, a growth of 2.2% per annum is required in pulses production. As the luxury of area expansion under pulses has almost dried up due to similar incentives, price signals and level of productivity in competing and companion crops, the productivity enhancement is the sole option for enhancing pulses production.