 36 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (xii) Reaction to diseases (xiii) Grain type (xiv) Grain colour (xv) Shelling (%) 3. Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I All characters on which data are to be recorded in the IVT, and also testing against the insect-pests under the artificial infestation at the centres and selected hot-spots 4. Characters/variables on which data should be generated at the final stage (AVT-II) of testing All characters on which data are to be recorded in the IVT/AVT-I and also testing against insects- pests under the artificial infestation at the centres and selected hot-spots. In addition to this, the entries will also be evaluated for the following agronomic performances. (i) Response to different fertilizer doses (ii) Response to higher plant density (iii) Issues related to seed production (iv) Data on the important quality parameters 5. Data collection in specialty corns (QPM, sweetcorn, popcorn and babycorn) Before recording the data/observation, self at least 5 plants in each entry of QPM, sweetcorn and popcorn trials. Only the selfed seeds should be used for observations on the quality parameters. In baby corn, harvest the corn after 2-3 cm of silk emergence. Further de-tasseling is one of the important activities in baby corn trials, so timely de-tasseling in all the entries of the baby corn trials should be ensured. Ears should be covered with silk bags so that pollens from other plants do not fall on the silk of the baby corn. Assured irrigation is required for baby corn and sweet corn trials to assess their performance. 5a. Important characters on which data should be recorded for QPM, sweetcorn, popcorn and babycorn A. QPM The data recording and evaluation are similar to the IVT, AVT-I and AVT- II trials of maize. In addition, following quality parameters are to be recorded for QPM trials. (i) Protein (%) (ii) Lysine (%) (iii) Tryptophan (%) B. Sweet corn The harvesting of sweet corn shall be done at the green-ear stage (approximately 21-25 days after silking); the details of the observations to be recorded are as follows. (i) Days to 50% flowering (anthesis and silking); plant height (cm); ear placement height; brix reading of total soluble sugars (TSS) at 19 to 21 days after self pollination in five random plants per replication per entry (ii) Sugar content (%) - On dry weight basis (iii) Plant population at harvest (number/plot) 37 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (iv) Green cob count at harvest (number/plot) (v) Fresh green cob weight (kg/plot) at harvest (21-25 days after silking) with husk (vi) Fresh green cob weight (kg/plot) at harvest (21-25 days after silking) without husk (vii) Shelling percentage C. Popcorn The data recording and evaluation are similar to the IVT, AVT-I and AVT- II trials of maize; but in addition to those, the data on the following additional traits need to be generated.