 His functions can be put into the following broad categories:- (i) Receipts, Payments and Accounts: a. Accurate and timely payments in conformity with prescribed rules and regulations; b. Timely realization of receipts; c. Timely and accurate compilation and consolidation of monthly and annual accounts; d. Ensure efficient service delivery to the Ministry/Department by the banking system; e. Adherence to prescribed accounting standards, rules and principles; f. Timely, accurate, comprehensive, relevant and useful financial reporting. In respect of the above responsibilities, the Chief Controller of Accounts shall function under the direction, superintendence and control of the Controller General of Accounts. (ii) Financial Management System: The Chief Controller of Accounts as the Head of the accounts wing, shall render his professional expertise in the functioning of the financial management system for making it more effective. He would also be responsible for the implementation of the financial information systems of the Controller General of Accounts. (iii) Internal Audit/Performance Audit : The revised charter of the roles and responsibilities of the Chief Controller of Accounts envisage that the Internal Audit Wing working under the control and supervision of the Chief Controller of Accounts would move beyond the existing system of compliance/regulatory audit and would focus on; (a) The appraisal, monitoring and evaluation of individual schemes, (b) Assessment of adequacy and effectiveness of internal control in general, soundness of financial systems and reliability of financial and accounting reports in particular; (c) Identification and monitoring of risk factors (including those contained in the Outcome Budget); (d) Critical assessment of economy, efficiency and effectiveness of service delivery mechanism to ensure value for money; and (e) Providing an effective monitoring system to facilitate mid course corrections. The above revised functions shall be carried out as per the guidelines issued by the CGA from time to time. (iv) FRBM related Tasks : The Chief Controller of Accounts shall be responsible for assisting in the preparation of the disclosure statements required under the FRBM Act in respect of their Ministry/Department for incorporation in the consolidated statement, compiled by the Ministry of Finance for the Government as a whole. He would also provide financial advice with the requisite information and material for his input for Finance Minister’s quarterly review of fiscal situation to be presented to the Parliament. 30 (v) Expenditure and Cash Management : The Chief Controller of Accounts will support Financial Adviser in the discharge of their responsibilities for expenditure and cash management. The expenditure management function should also be closely linked to the Outcome Budget.