 SUMMARY The global vegetable oils sector has grown at 4.1% per year, but challenges in oilseed cultivation contribute to a significant edible oil deficit in India, prompting high import expenditures of `150,800 crore in 2021–22. The system of mustard intensification involves seed priming with dung, urine, and jaggery, followed by seed treatment with Trichoderma. Transplanting seedlings grown in a nursery for 10-12 days, along with optimizing soil conditions, selecting high-yield varieties, precise irrigation, timely fertilization, and effective pest control are integral components. Implementing these practices enhances mustard crop productivity and quality. The system of mustard intensification has proven successful in enhancing mustard yields, as demonstrated in various states like Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Odisha, and West Bengal, attracting widespread adoption and contributing to agricultural advancements. It represents a significant step towards achieving self-reliance in oilseed production for India. By optimizing cultivation practices, enhancing resource efficiency, and promoting sustainability, SMI offers a holistic approach to mustard farming. As more farmers embrace this innovative system, India inches closer to reducing its dependence on edible oil imports, ensuring food security, and fostering economic prosperity for its agricultural community. *Corresponding author e-mail: zsk0097411@gmail.com Crop establishment techniques and seed yield Seed yield (kg/ha) Establishment Technique 30 x 30 Transplanting 30 x 30 Transplanting 45 x 45 Transplanting 60 x 60 Transplanting Direct Seeding 45 x 45 Transplanting 60 x 60 Transplanting Direct Seeding Establishment Technique Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.