 Agriculture is the age old and an essential avocation of the man to cultivate crop plants and domesticate animals which took place thousands of years ago to basically meet the food requirement. As man civilized, his wants were increased so that the natural resources were subjected to exploitation at one or the other point of development. Presently, agriculture not only provides food but also meets the other needs such as fodder, fibre, fruit, flower, etc. In the process of cultivating more and more from the limited natural resources, the farmers have to adopt modern scientific methods of cultivation besides being exposed to the adverse weather and degraded soil conditions (Balamurali 2020). Gandhiji emphasized the importance of natural resources and its conservation through a saying “I need no inspiration other than Nature’s. She has never failed me as yet. She mystifies me, bewilders me, and sends me to ecstasies”. This expression of Mahatma has direct bearing on the man-and-environment relationship (Tiwari 2019). The dependence on natural resources for production of crops to meet the requirement of population is closely associated with prevalence of a suitable climate, a fertile soil and an abundant water supply around human settlements across the globe. However, the man’s greed of producing more has led to depletion of resources besides polluting air, water and soil. On the other hand population explosion, mass poverty, over utilization of renewable resources, over and imbalance use of fertilizers/nutrients, desert formation, deforestation, global warming etc. which are man-made in nature are all causing irreparable damages to our planet earth. Further with rapid changes in environmental Agro-biodiversity, Ecology and Agriculture: Gandhian Thoughts 76 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR conditions, land use pattern and climate change, the incidence pattern of various vector-borne diseases is also changing globally. In post-globalization era, agriculture has become global through exchange and free entry of synthetic chemicals for plant protection, genetically modified crops, etc. Farmers have become knowledgeable in acquiring new skills in farming and adopting the same on the parcels of their land. The economic state of today’s farmers is much better compared to the earlier generations. The improved economic state of other sectors, buying power, distribution channels and consumerism further increased the demand for agricultural goods mainly food and fodder for cattle. But this has to be got from limited land and water and farmers having small and marginal holdings. It is need of the hour to focus more on increasing livelihood, economic security of more than 85% land holdings which are falling under the category of small and marginal farmers.