 Veeli: Its roots and leaves are anthelmintic and deobstruent and are prescribed as decoction in uterine obstructions. The leaves are also used as poultice for sores. Geographical indications Kollanhovakizhangu: It is a tendril-bearing, climbing herb, distributed in tropical Africa, Persian Gulf region and India. The root of this species, which occurs in many parts of India, is yellowish white, marked externally with circular rings. Avarmkolai: A fast-growing, profusely branched, tall, evergreen shrub, generally 1.2-3.0 m in height, sometimes reaching a height of 6.0 m, found in the dry zones of southern, western and central India extending up to Rajasthan in the north; also cultivated in some parts of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal, and often planted in gardens for ornament and as hedges. Bark reddish brown, smooth; leaves 7-10 cm, with large, auricled or rotundo-reniform, foliaceous stipules; leaflets 7-9 pairs, with an orange, erect, gland between each pair of leaflets, slightly aromatic, oblong-obovate, obtuse or emarginate, 1.5-2.5 cm x 0.9- 1.2 cm; flowers yellow, in compound, terminal, corymbose racemes; pods pale brown, oblong, 5-15 cm x 1.2-1.8 cm, flat, papery, flexible; seeds, compressed, tapering towards the base, 6-12. Veeli: A straggling, much-branched, wiry, hoary shrub, commonly found throughout the drier parts of India. Bark brown, rough, lenticellate, fibrous; leaves 2.5-3.0 cm long, ovate-oblong or ovate, acute; flowers dirty-white in corymbose racemes; capsules cylindric, glabrous or pubescent, dehiscent, irregularly torulose; seeds black, striate, reniform-rotundate or comma-shaped, compressed, embedded in yellowish orange or red aril. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 260 Treatments for animal diseases Volume 2, page 433 Pattai, Aloe, kasakasa, aavaram, siriyanangai, periyanangai, kasippatai, cumin, vizhudhi, banana, avuri, kungiliyapaspam, sangam, sandamarudham, pavazha paspam and Strychnos Avuri: Bengali and Hindi: nil; Gujarati: gali, gari, nil; Kannada, Marathi & Tamil: nili; Malayalam: nilam; Sanskrit: nilla, nili, nilika, rangapatri; Telugu: aviri, nili. English name Botanical name Active ingredients Avuri: Common indigo, Indian indigo Avuri: Indigofera tinctoria Linn. Avuri: An extract of plant is used in epilapsy and in nervous disorders. The plant is used also in bronchitis and as an ointment for sore, old ulcer and haemorrhoids. The juice of leaves is used for hydrophobia. The Mundas of Chhotanagpur use the roots for urinary complaints. Geographical indications Avuri: A shrub 4—6 ft high, found nearly throughout India, mainly as an escape from cultivation. Leaves 1-3 in. long, with 9-13 leaflets; flowers red; pods glabrescent, slightly curved or straight, 3/4-l in. long. It is considered to be of Asian in origin, though it has been recorded as occurring wild in Africa.