 Due to high carbon sequestration and drought tolerance, pigeonpea is considered to be an important Phenotypic expression in parents (a) BT× 623 (bloom) and (b) RS 647 (bloomless) Distribution of lncRNAs on the 12 chromosomes of rice. A: Leaf lncRNAs; B: Root lncRNAs. (A) (B) CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 43 crop for the development of climate resilient agriculture and nutritional security. However, pigeonpea productivity has remained low for decades because of limited genetic and genomic resources, and sparse utilization of landraces and wild pigeonpea germplasm. Hence, a high-density intraspecific consensus linkage map of eleven pigeonpea chromosomes comprising 932 markers that span a total map length of 1,411.83 cM was developed. The consensus map is based on three different linkage maps that incorporate a large number of single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers derived from the next generation sequencing data, using Illumina Golden Gate bead arrays, and genotyping by restriction site associated DNA (RAD) sequencing. The integrated map has 547 bead-array SNP, 319 RAD-SNP, and 65 simple sequence repeat (SSR) marker loci. The availability of a high-density linkage map will help improve the anchoring of the pigeonpea genome to its chromosomes and mapping of genes and quantitative trait loci for useful agronomic traits. DNA fingerprinting: Profiling of 23 varieties of Brassica rapa, 49 of pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan) and 13 of little millet was carried out using SSR markers. Five hundred and ninety wheat accessions were characterized for heat shock factor and for Lr34/Yr18 using STMS markers. Two hundred twenty three core accessions and 20 varieties of foxtail millet were validated using 31 SSR markers. Genotyping was conducted in 20 wheat accessions for salt tolerance and 20 finger millet accessions for blast resistance using gene based SSR markers. A total of 65,536 biallelic type SNPs were generated by resequencing of 15 brinjal landraces and Solanum incanum. Thottumuriyan (TCR 419), a black pepper landrace was sequenced. Putative abiotic stress responsive transcription factors have been identified in chickpea, soybean, cotton (G. raimondii), greengram, sesame, foxtail millet, tomato, potato, sorghum and maize. Real time LAMP assays for marker genes (pat, pm, Sad1 and barstar) were developed. Decoding of the dark jute genome Corchorus olitorius (2n = 2 × = 14), commonly known as dark jute is an important ligno-cellulosic bast fibre crop with >80% acreage of jute growing areas of the world. The genome sequencing of Indian jute variety JRO 524 (Navin) was accomplished. The draft genome of JRO-524 (Navin) has a size of 377.3 Mbp harbouring 57,087 protein-coding genes, out of which 1,765 genes codes for disease resistance-like and defence responses. The annotated genes showed the highest sequence similarity with that of Theobroma cacao followed by Gossypium raimondii.