 A schematic model for an algal refinery was developed which demonstrated production of 0.06 g of β-carotene, 380 g (0.42 L) of biodiesel, 20 g of omega-3 fatty acids, 30 g (0.024 L) of glycerol, and 170 g (0.19 L) of bioethanol from 1 kg of S. obliquus dry biomass. A protein- rich algae meal with the standard (control) + whole microalgal + extracted microalgal protein diet (25:25:50) inducing significant growth stimulation in freshwater fish, was also formulated. Increasing the efficiency of microbial production of bioethanol from agricultural biomass: Delignification and saccharification of agricultural biomass are important steps for production of bioethanol. A broad database of cellulose and lignin-degrading microbes available in diverse growing conditions has been prepared. Three microbes, Myrothecium roridum, Trametes hirsute and Steptomyces griseorubens, have been found efficient in delignification of paddy-straw, carrot grass etc. M. roridum released 408.33 mg/g reducing sugar from bio- pretreated paddy- straw and 376.75 mg/g from sterilized carrot- grass after 32 hr of enzyme action. Fermentation of hydrolysate derived from alkali-treated paddy- straw and carrot- grass with S. griseorubens produced ethanol (16.5g/litre) with addition of E- glucosidase. Plant pathogens like Xanthomonas axonopodis pv. punicae and Phoma exigua ITCC 2049 showed saccharification of lignocellulosic biomass. Investigations on high pressure induced effect on quality characteristics of buffalo milk: Pressure treatment at 400 MPa and above resulted in rapid dissociation of casein micelle. Micellar proteins are fully denatured and serum proteins denatured partially due to pressurization. In buffalo, disruption of casein micelle at 400 MPa or above pressure for 10 minutes indicated that casein fraction was the major site for high pressure induced effect. The change in casein fractions affected viscosity and colour, apart from affecting rennet coagulation time (RCT) and heat coagulation time (HCT) . Shelf- life of high pressured (400 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 60 MPa for 10 min) treated samples of both cow and buffalo milk could be stored up to 20 days in refrigeration (5±2°C) without changing functional characteristics and spoilage. Above 400 MPa, the casein protein got denatured. Extraction and Micro-encapsulation of Nutraceutical for Effective Delivery into Different Food Matrices: An autoclavable microencapsulation system with multistage two fluid nozzle has been developed for microencapsulation of sensitive food components, which are prone to contamination (microorganisms and their products) including bacteriocins. Microencapsulation of probiotic species of yeast, Lactobacillus casei, and pediocin, nisin, xylanase, pectinase and amylase has been done. Patent has been filed and technology has been transferred.