 Majority of the farmers had adopted multiple channels to avoid marketing risk, to manage fluctuations in milk production and to efficiently manage fluctuating demand in the market for milk and milk products. The value addition along the chain and profits were realised higher in the value chain of integrated production and processing system. The study developed food safety adoption index by considering 68 scientific practices adopted by different stakeholders in the milk value chain. The regression analysis between food safety index and its determinants revealed positive association between adoption of food safety measures in the value chain and milk prices. Organic spices: A value chain analysis of three major spices–ginger, turmeric, and chilli in the north-eastern region–was done to work out comparative costs and returns, mapping of value chain actors and estimation of compliance cost, investment and margins along the value chains. The states having the highest areas under the selected spices were selected and compared with the state adopting organic production practices. Sikkim was purposively chosen as control state as it has largest area under organic production. In north-eastern region, ginger is grown in three farm situation—upland, terrace and jhum/shifting cultivation. The non-adopter states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and adopter state, Sikkim were selected for the study. Major collection centres were identified in the selected states. The per hectare cost of cultivation of ginger in organic state was high due to the relatively higher price of organic rhizomes than in the non-adopter states. The net returns, however was highest in the organic adopter state. A huge return gap of 60.98%, 77.83% and 64.85% was observed between the states of Meghalaya, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh with Sikkim. These evidences implied that cultivation of organic ginger fetches premium prices. The producers’ share in the consumer rupee for the organic adopted state was fairly higher than the non-adopted states. STATISTICS AND COMPUTER APPLICATIONS Latin hypercube designs: Latin hypercube designs (LHDs) are commonly used in designing complex computer models. A new type of Latin hypercube design known as Sliced LHD (SLHD) are now a days gaining importance in the field of computer experiments. SLHDs are a special type of LHDs, which can be further partitioned into different slices and act as batches of smaller Latin hypercube designs. Developed methods of construction of sliced Latin hypercube designs and sliced orthogonal Latin hypercube designs with both equal and unequal batch (slice) for up to three slices. Modelling and forecasting of drought index using machine learning techniques: Multiple kernel extreme learning machine (MK-ELM) and wavelet based MK- ELM (W-MK-ELM) algorithms were implemented for forecasting of effective drought index (EDI).