 Coarse wool core braided rope for foot mat: The study was conducted to know the effect of coarse wool core and different natural fibre sheath on braided rope water absorption capacity. The water absorption capacity was higher (289%) for wool sheath braided rope as compared to cotton sheath braided rope (142%). Jute braided rope absorbed 57% less water in comparison with wool braided rope. Thickness of coarse wool braided rope was between 4.9–8.1 mm. Camel milk and products: In order to promote use of camel milk, different consumer friendly value added products are being prepared. The protocol for production of good quality paneer from blends of camel and buffalo milk, camel and skimmed milk powder and camel and cow milk was standardized. Good quality fresh cheese from camel milk could be prepared and popularized as high value camel milk products. Camel milk and its products were developed, popularized and tested for their commercial viability by sale of pasteurized milk, kulfi, flavoured milk, ice cream, tea, coffee, etc., at the Centre’s camel milk parlour. Meat The process standardized and cost evaluation was performed for the following products— • Standardization of natural preservatives in development of chicken kebabs utilizing spent hen. • Shelf-life evaluation of chicken seekh kebab during storage at 4 ± 1ºC under aerobic packaging conditions. • Determination of cost of production for processing of chicken seekh kebabs and consumer evaluation study. • Development of different value added poultry products for income generation: Processing Braided rope mats Sorghum-soya yoghurt POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 103 technology and formulation for development of functional turkey meat seekh kebabs (FTMSK) was standardized for effective utilization of tough meat from adult turkey. • Standardization of processing technology for development of bone-in chicken pickle using spent hen: Processing technology for preparation of bone-in chicken pickle brine dipping method was employed. Fish PlanktonPlus-Fish waste to wealth: Fish trimming waste were fermented and developed in a product called PlanktonPlus for boosting plankton density in aquaculture ponds. An increase in plankton density reduces the demand for feed and increases productivity. Application of PlanktonPlus in shrimp ponds at 30 ppm increased productivity to 1.60 tonnes/ha with a 20% reduction in feed use. Hence, PlanktonPlus could save 20% feed as Seaweed-based products: CadalminTM IBe is a natural product to improve the innate immune system and is purified from selected seaweeds namely, Sargassum wightii and Turbina riaconoides. Long- term pre-clinical trials of the active ingredients used to develop CadalminTM IBe showed no toxicity related significant changes in renal or hepatic function, haematological indices and serum biochemical parameters in the experimental subjects. This nutraceutical is purely natural, which does not have any side effects.