 The effects of severe flooding in the Baitarini River basin are visible in three blocks in Jajpur district (Jajpur, Dasarathpur, Korei blocks), two blocks in Bhadrak district (Dhamnagar and Bhandaripokhari blocks) and Anadapur block in Keonjhar district of Odisha. Occurrence of floods over the period of time has resulted 8.0% decline in agricultural land and a 13.9% increase in fallow land within the basin during 1995 and 2020. Hence, it is necessary that integrated flood management measures along with watershed management approaches in the upper catchment areas is suggested to minimize the risk of flooding in the basin. Automation of irrigation pump for enhancing water productivity in transplanted rice Automatic on and off irrigation pumps can avoid overuse of water and save energy. In alternate wetting and drying (AWD) of transplanted rice, periodic irrigation up to 5 cm ponding is provided after the water level falls to a critical depth (10 cm) below the soil surface in the designated pipe. An automated AWD system was developed and evaluated in transplanted rice at ICAR-IIWM, Bhubaneswar. The results revealed that rice grain yield was 4.43 and 4.21 t/ha under continuous flooding and automated AWD, respectively. In continuous flooding, 1340 mm of water (irrigation and rainfall combined) was required, while under automated AWD, 1100 mm of water was required. Thus, there was a saving in irrigation water use by 240 mm (18.0%) in automated AWD. Water productivity was only 0.33 kg/m3 with continuous flooding, while it was 0.38 kg/m3 with the automated AWD system. Field view of automated AWD irrigation Spatio-temporal change assessment for diggi based canal water use, expanding irrigated croplands and reduced wind erosion in IGNP area of Jaisalmer district: Diggi is an indigenous micro-hydrological structure that has become quite popular strategy for water management at field scale. Such structures are man-made and are constructed in farmers’ field where farmers transfer the nearby canal water into these ponds ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 103 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY using solar energy, electricity or diesel based pumping. The structures are geometrically rectangular in shape, thus, are clearly visible and can be mapped on the False Colour Composites of remote sensing satellite images, especially in IRS-LISS III or more high resolution LISS IV image. Remote sensing satellite images of three years at an interval of 10 years; 2000, 2010 and 2020 were used and created GIS maps and database for extent of irrigated croplands, farm ponds (diggi structure) and wind erosion affected area. Three GIS maps were created.