 These microorganisms include bacteria, fungi, archaea and algae which employ different mechanisms for desired breakdown involving a number of enzymes with oxidative properties. While most of these microorganisms operate under aerobic conditions, significant studies have been made into anaerobic pathways of degradation. Bacteria involved in residue decomposition can oxidise lignin and spread across actinobacteria, alpha-proteobacteria and gamma- proteobacteria. The application of bacteria is specifically intriguing because they cannot only degrade the lignocellulosic biomass but also help in biological nitrogen fixation. Bacteria capable of aerobic breakdown of cellulose include Pseudomonas, Klebsiella and Bacillus. They secrete exoenzymes and these exoenzymes, enabling them to use cellulose as an energy source. The enzymes cellulase and laccase have also been identified in the genera Clostridium, Cutrobacterium, and Flavobacterium. Actinomycetes or Actinobacteria invade the cellulosic material, quite similar to fungi, and produce enzymes to accelerate the fate of degradation like manganese peroxidase and xylanase. The major genera include Streptomyces, Nocardia, Rhodococcus and Microbispora etc. Filamentous fungi with plant cell wall degrading properties are substantial in degradation. Their filaments provide access to deeper parts of the biomass, and these fungi use a wide variety of extracellular enzymes with diverse catalytic activities to hydrolyse lignocellulose. The action of these enzymes is selective but also very rapid and expensive at a large scale. Ascomycete fungi, also known as the soft-rot fungi, which include Aspergillus, Trichoderma and Neurospora etc., act on the polysaccharide layer of the surface layer of plants and then proceed to degrade lignin by the production of laccase. The most efficient decomposition of lignocellulose is seen in the case of white-rot fungi, which include Phanerochaete sordida, Phanerochaete chrysosporium, Phanerochaete carnosa and Botrytis cinerea. There have been several successful efforts in similar direction lately which have led to development of various effective lignocellulolytic microbial consortia in India and around the globe. Most notable of these include the capsule based consortium developed by the ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. Similarly, Biocompost developed by ICAR which consists of Trichoderma viride, Aspergillus niger, Pleurotus florida and Phanerochaete chrysosporium. Another example would be TNAU Biomineralizer consortium, which utilises bacteria, fungi, and actinomycetes for degradation of biomass. A new decomposer consortium containing Aspergillus awamori and Paecilomyces fusisporus as cellulose decomposers, Pseudomonas striata and Bacillus polymyxa as phosphate solubilisers, and Azotobacter chroococcum as nitrogen fixer, is said to enrich the soil with essential nutrients and has been developed by ICAR-IISS, Bhopal.