 Finally, the study attempted to evaluate how widespread the adoption and diffusion of technologies are at the district level. Findings showed that districts that saw frequent frontline demon- stration interventions over the years were likely to see gains in dif- fusion speed at the district level. The evidence on spillover effects provides new insights into the approaches that maximize returns on investments in publicly funded knowledge- and information- transfer programs. From a policy perspective, the strong impact of KVKs suggests that these services should be scaled up to reach more Indian farmers. CRediT authorship contribution statement Deepak Varshney: Conceptualization, Data curation, Formal Analysis, Methodology, Writing-original draft. Pramod K. Joshi: Supervision, Conceptualization, Writing- review, and editing. Anjani Kumar: Conceptualization, Writing- review, and editing. Ashok K.Mishra: Conceptualization, Writing- reviewing, and edit- ing. Shantanu Kumar Dubey: Data curation, Writing- reviewing, and editing. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no known competing ﬁnan- cial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to inﬂuence the work reported in this paper. Acknowledgements We acknowledge the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for their ﬁnancial support. We are grateful to Hon’ble Direc- tor General (DG, ICAR) and Deputy Director General (DDG, Ag Extension, ICAR) for their useful suggestions. We are also thankful to the Director, Agricultural Technology Research Institute (ATARI), ICAR, Kanpur, for their help and support. We are grateful to Kalicharan Shukla, Primary Survey Organisation (PSO), for provid- ing excellent assistance in the data collection. This paper acknowl- edges the CGIAR Research Program on Policies, Institutions, and Markets (PIM) led by the International Food Policy Research Insti- tute (IFPRI). Appendix A. Supplementary data Supplementary data to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.worlddev.2022.106067. References Akinola, A. A. (1987). An application of probit analysis to the adoption of tractor hiring service scheme in Nigeria. Oxford Agrarian Studies, 16(1), 70–82. Anderson, J. R., & Feder, G. (2007). Agricultural extension. Handbook of Agricultural Economics, 3, 2343–2378. Awotide, B., Diagne, A., Wiredu, A., & Ojehomon, V. (2012). Wealth status and agricultural technology adoption among smallholder rice farmers in Nigeria. OIDA International Journal of Sustainable Development, 5(2), 97–108. Bandiera, O., & Rasul, I. (2006). Social networks and technology adoption in northern mozambique. The Economic Journal, 116(514), 869–902. Banerjee, A., Chandrasekhar, A. G., Duﬂo, E., & Jackson, M. O. (2019). Using gossips to spread information: Theory and evidence from two randomized controlled trials. The Review of Economic Studies, 86(6), 2453–2490s. Barrett, C. B., Carter, M. R., & Timmer, C. P. (2010).