 This burgeoning population and increasing ur- banization will 2030 heighten the demand for nutritious food from rural areas already strained by climate change impacts, such as rising tem- peratures, droughts, groundwater depletion, and severe weather affecting river basins (IPCC, 2018). To meet these challenges and eco- nomic development, food production needs to double by 2050. Marginal and small farmers are crucial in ensuring the country’s food security and achieving the SDGs (Pawlak and Kołodziejczak, 2020). Supporting these farmers can significantly advance SDG 2 (Zero Hunger), SDG 13 (Climate Action), and SDG 15 (Life on Land). Nevertheless, climate-induced extreme weather and a forecasted 1–2.5 ◦C temperature rise by 2030 threaten agricultural output, nutrient cycles, and fertilizer efficacy (Rao et al., 2019a) (see SF.1). 4. CRA initiatives and projects in India This section describes some invaluable, successful CRA projects in India, detailed in the following. 4.1. National Innovations in CRA (NICRA) (2010–2011) Initiated by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 2011, NICRA was a comprehensive, interdisciplinary network project aimed at improving the resilience of Indian agriculture to climate change and variability (URL: http://www.nicra-icar.in/). The project mainly focused on improving agricultural adaptability, showcasing customized technology packages and solutions to tackle climate-related challenges in farmers’ fields, and enhancing the skills of scientists and stakeholders. 4.2. Enhancing adaptive capacity and increasing resilience of small and marginal farmers in Purulia and Bankura district of West Bengal (2015–2019) This project, led by the Development Research Communication and Services Centre (DRCSC), aimed to create climate-resilient and adaptive livelihood systems for small and marginal farmers in West Bengal’s Lateritic Zone (URL: http://www.drcsc.org/ and https://www.nabard. org/). This project mainly focused on agriculture and related sectors, achieved through diversification, technology integration, and effective natural resource management. The initiative aims to build the adaptive capacity of vulnerable farming households in the semi-arid areas of Purulia and Bankura districts by implementing strategies to mitigate the adverse impacts of climate change on their food and livelihood security. It is targeted to benefit a significant number households, including many individuals from vulnerable farming communities and those reliant on natural resources. 4.3. Scaling-up CRA towards climate-smart villages (CSVs) in Haryana (2016–2019) This project was designed to empower rural communities in Haryana to adapt to climate change by promoting CRA practices across selected villages (URL: https://www.nabard.org/).