 Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 141 : Control of rhinocerous beetle in coconut by using cowdung slurry : Cowdung slurry in wide-mouthed vessel is kept at ground level under coconut plantations to trap the rhinocerous beetle (Oryctes rhinocerous). This practice is in use for the last five years by the coconut growers of Thummanayakakanpatty village in Madurai district of Tamil Nadu Mr M. Jagadeesan S/o Mr C. Muniyandy, South street, Chelaimalaipatty, Thumamanayakakanpatty, Peraiyur, Madurai 626 703, Tamil Nadu Thummanayakakanpatty, Peraiyur, Madurai 626 703, Tamil Nadu Dr K. Koodalingam, Professor (Breeder Seeds), Centre for Plant Breeding and Genetics, Sugarcane Research Station, Melalathur, Gudiyathum 635 806, Tamil Nadu and Dr K. Rajamanickam, Associate Professor of Entomology, Coconut Research Station, Aliyar Nagar 642 101, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Pollachi, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu METHODOLOGY In the third phase, four trials were conducted at Nangegoundanpur, Thensangam-palayam, Angalakurchi and Thengaiparai villages at Pollachi between January-December 2004. The treatments included in the study are: T1 cowdung slurry @5 kg/2 litre water, T2: cowdung slurry @ 5 kg/4 litre water: T3 cowdung slurry @ 5kg + @ 100g/2 litre water, T4: recommended practice: castor cake @ 2.5 kg/one litre water, T5: untreated check: 5 litre water alone in pot. Wide-mouthed pots (24 cm width x 30 cm height x bottom width 27 cm) were used to trap insects for different treatments. Observations on trapped rhinocerous and scarabeid beetles on fortnightly basis were collected. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION In all the locations, cowdung slurry and fishmeal powder (T3) attracted more rhinocerous beetles. Castor cake suspension (T4) recorded equal performance in controlling insects as that of cowdung slurry and fishmeal powder. Castor cake suspension (T4 was found superior in mass trapping of scraboid beetles (19 to 74) followed by cowdung slurry and fishmeal (T3) that ranged from 15 to 67. The results are presented in Table 1. CONCLUSION Setting up wide-mouthed pots containing cowdung slurry @ 5 kg + 100 g dried fish meal powder placed at ground level attracted adult rhinocerous beetles up to 29 followed by cowdung slurry @ 5 kg with 2 litre water (18). Castor cake Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 1. Number of Rhinoceros and Scrabeid beetles trapped by the treatments at different locations Location: Nangegoundanpur, Pudur East Garden Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Location: Angalakurichi Location: Thensangampalayam RS, Rhinocerous beetle; SB, Scrabeid beetle Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS suspension @ 2.5 kg + 2 litre water attracted highest number of adult beetles (32).