 yy Collection and destruction of fallen fruits weekly starting from the initiation of fruit maturity yy Male Annihilation Technique (MAT) @ 10 blocks /ha starting from 45 days before fruit maturity. Replace the blocks after 30 days or even early. yy Bait Annihilation Technique (BAT) (0.1% insecticide, 10% jaggery or banana in water) starting 45 days before fruit maturity. Spray in spots of 40 ml at a rate of 200 spots (approximately 8 l/ha). Apply bait spray in spots to surroundings hedges also. yy One spray of Deltamehtrin 0.0014% + Azadirachtin (3000 ppm) @ 2ml/l three weeks before harvest. yy Avoid delays in harvesting and, if needed, give post- harvest hot water treatment within 24 hours after harvest. CISH OMAT fruit fly trap: The technology is meant for fruit fly trapping. About 4.5×4.5×1.2 cm wood killing block impregnated with methyl eugenol and killing mixture, fitted in water/ rainproof trap container of 1,100 ml capacity. It remains effective for 60-90 days depending on season. Hot water treatment or salt water treatment (VHT): This procedure for fruits before storage and ripening to kill the larvae. After proper harvesting, select uniform-sized, undamaged fruits. Dip them in a 5% solution of sodium chloride in cold water for one hour. This will kill 95% of the eggs in the fruit epicarp and also remove the externally present pesticide residues. Post-harvest immersion of mango fruits in hot water at 48 ± 10C for 45-60 minutes gives 100% mortality of fruit fly eggs in the epicarp without affecting the fruit quality. Scale insects Scale insects have assumed the status of a serious pest in certain parts of the country. Pulvinaria polygonata, Aspidiatus destructor, Ceroplastis sp. and Rastococus sp. are some of the most common scale insects infesting the mango crop. The nymphs and adult scales suck the sap of the leaves and other tender parts and reduce the vigour of the plants. They also secrete honeydew, which promotes the growth of sooty mold. IPM strategy yy Pruning of infested branches and burning. yy Around 40 species of predators and parasites have been reported to attack the scale. yy Chemicals used on scales that are usually used include dimethoate (0.05%) and malathion (0.075%). yy Sprays are only effective on the crawler stage of the scales. Scale insect damage on mango Fruit fly Bactrocera dorsalis and its maggots on mango Fruit fly trap Indian Horticulture 44 yy Control is difficult in other life stages. yy Adults are firmly attached to the plant and remain so after their death. That may give a false impression of the pest’s status. The application of pesticides may kill natural enemies of the scale and result in a resurgence of the pest. Bark-eating caterpillar This pest is more likely to attack old, shady, and neglected orchards. Larvae of this moth feed on the bark. The caterpillar spins a brown silken web on the tree which consists of its excreta and wood particles.