 These breeds included Kathani (Maharashtra), Sanchori (Rajasthan), Masilum (Meghalaya) cattle; Purnathadi buffalo (Maharashtra); Sojat (Rajasthan), Karauli (Rajasthan) and Gujari (Rajasthan) goat and Banda (Jharkhand), Manipur Black (Manipur), Wak Chambil (Meghalaya) pig. After including these breeds, total 212 indigenous breeds (53 of cattle, 20 of buffalo, 37 of goat, 44 of sheep, 7 of horses and ponies, 9 of camel, 13 of pig, 3 of donkey, 3 of dog, 1 of yak, 19 of chicken, 2 of duck and 1 of goose) have been notified by the Government, till date. ICAR- NBAGR in August 2021 initiated a mission approach for identifying new homogenous population in various states through institute projects and 40 new potential populations have been identified till now since initiation of mission activities. During the period, 18,050 semen doses of 4 cattle breeds (Malnad Gidda, Hariana, Gir, Gangatiri); 3 buffalo breeds (Nili Ravi, Mehsana, Surti) and 2 goat breeds (Osmanabadi, Sangamneri) have been cryopreserved. Also, 2,240 somatic cell vials of 19 native breeds- Ladakhi, Siri and Sahiwal cattle; Changthangi, Bhakarwali, Gaddi and Teressa goat; Gurez, Bonpala, Karnah and Gaddi sheep; Agonda Goan, Wak Chambil, Niang Megha, Mali, Banda and Nicobari pig; Mewati camel and Kathiawadi horse were cryopreserved for long term conservation. At present, National Gene Bank has repository of 61 native breeds/ populations of livestock and poultry in form of Semen and 47 in form of Somatic cells. Further, 122 oocytes (vitrified) of 5 native breeds were also cryopreserved. ICAR-NBFGR discovered new fish and shrimp species from marine waters along the coast of Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Lakshadweep islands. Marine fish species discovered were Gymnothorax tamilnaduensis, Congerm melanopterus, Rhynchoconger bicoloratus, Ophichthus nigroventralis and Macrocephenchelys sumodi. Marine shrimps detected were Cuapetes purushothamani and Alpheussul cipalma. Mangrove red snapper, Lutjanusargenti maculatus, a marine food fish of economic and aquaculture importance was found to comprise genome of 1.04 Gb length containing 521 scaffolds with N50 metric of 32.5 Mb. The mangrove red snapper genome has been predicted to contain 31,969 protein encoding genes. The whole genome of Indian oil sardine (Sardinella longiceps), a popular marine food fish was decoded. The decoded genome is 1.077 Gb in size and contains 46,316 protein coding genes. Genetic and genomic investigations showed that Indian oil sardines exist in two highly distinct stocks, one in the Indian waters and another in the Gulf of Oman. National Fish Museum and Repository established at the ICAR- NBFGR, Lucknow, was dedicated to the nation on 14 April, 2023. The newly developed museum displays finfish and shellfish voucher specimens of freshwater, marine, and brackish water environments. The museum also holds a radiographic facility to comprehensively understand fish morphological features.