 Improved high yielding, short duration, drought and pest/ disease tolerant cultivars of less than 8-10 year duration in all pulse crops coupled with seed treatment, in situ moisture conservation practices, weed management, crop protection, micro-irrigation and mechanized harvesting techniques were demonstrated to farmers in large clusters over three seasons at district level in all the states since 2015-16. Field days were conducted involving farmers from neighbouring villages and extension functionaries were also involved. Large-scale technology application by KVKs in farmers’ fields under the National Food Security Mission (NFSM) resulted in productivity enhancement between 30- 40% (2.2-3.9 q ha-1 in major pulse crops). The country’s pulses production crossed the 25 Mt in a short period. Quality seed is key for achieving seed replacement for increasing productivity in pulses. Seed hubs were established in 97 KVKs and about 79725 q certified seed of high yielding pulses cultivars was produced during 2018-20. 7. Gandhiji’s Vision of Trusteeship 7.1. Protecting indigenous varieties and land-races Farmers over generations developed different varieties and land races under different agro- climatic and agro-ecosystems. Realizing the importance of conserving these varieties and land races, an institutional arrangement was developed with Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA) for identification and registration of farmers’ varieties and organizing awareness campaigns by the KVKs. During the period of 2013-14 to 2016-17, as many as 7367 farmer’s varieties have been identified for registration with PPV&FRA. Kadaknath poutry breed found in Jhabua and Dhar Districts of Western Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan is unique for its richness of protein and characteristic meat quality. KVKs in tribal dominated areas in Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh established hatcheries for promoting scientific rearing of Kadaknath in the region which led to its further spread across 20 states. Promotion of better rearing practices in back yards as free-range poultry in existing orchards and commercial production for higher economic returns catapulted the indigenous breed to a well-recognized brand. 7.2. Farming as a way of life and livelihood Organic way of farming is in tune with the vision of the Mahatma for self-sufficiency in the Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 164 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR practice of agriculture utilizing the on-farm resources for promotion of soil health to improve farm output without much use of external inputs. KVKs enabled formation of 596 local groups in more than 400 districts and registered 13222 organic farmers covering 8135 ha area under the Traditional agriculture promotion scheme (PKVY).