 A total of 1,645 crop germplasm was collected by the Institute, consisting of cereals, legumes, oilseeds, fibre crops, vegetables and spices DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 186 but also successfully produced tissue-cultured, disease-free planting materials for the farming community. Agricultural Mechanization The Institute has designed and developed improvized tools and implements by blending the traditional and modern technologies. The tools like long handle weeder and motorized wireloop paddy thresher can save labour requirement by 60–80% over normal weeding and threshing. Some of the farm implements developed at the Institute have also been accepted by the farmers of the Uttaranchal state through the Institute like the VPKAS, Almora. Rapid Diagnosis of Livestock and Poultry Diseases The Institute has developed DNA-based diagnosis techniques, particularly for salmonella and clostridial diseases. Presence of enterotoxic gene of salmonella through PCR amplification was indicative of the presence of salmonella. Such diagnosis could be made within 3–6 hr. Software for Protozoa Parasitic Disease Diagnosis A software was developed, containing details about morphology, life-cycle, pathogenesis, diagnosis and treatment of different protozoan parasites affecting domestic animals and birds. It also covers different types of database for cestode, trematode, nematode etc. along with the facility to retrieve scientific names of different parasites. TURMERIC PERFORMANCE A variety of turmeric Megha Turmeric 1 was released. It gave yield of 27 tonnes/ha which was around 196% higher than the presently cultivated Lakadong variety, with almost equal curcumin content. It has been accepted very well by the farming community and the State Department of Horticulture, particularly for its very high yield as well as its relative resistance to diseases and pests. Turmeric is one of the widely grown species throughout the north- eastern region. Megha Turmeric 1 gave 196% higher yield than presently cultivated variety Lakadong BAMBOO Besides use of bamboo in the paper industry, its shoots are also taken as ethnic food. Bamboo leaves can serve as a good fodder resource particularly during the lean season. However, feeding of bamboo leaves to livestock is restricted due primarily to a higher level of HCN content. The research work conducted at the Institute could reduce the HCN content in bamboo up to 72.20% after sun-drying for 24 hr. Besides, boiling and oven-drying could also reduce the HCN content up to 100 and 82% respectively. Higher HCN content in leaves of bamboo restricts its feeding to livestock. Sun-drying, boiling and oven-drying of bamboo greatly reduces the HCN content l Four rice varieties released (Bhalum 1 and Bhalum 2 for upland; Shah Sarang 1 and Lum Pnah 1 for lowland) l Collected 1,645 crop germplasm, including cereals, legumes, fibre crops, vegetables, fruits, spices. l A variety of turmeric Megha Turmeric 1 released.