 Examples of cool climate orchids Cymbidium (30-40% shading should be provided), Odontoglossum alliance (60-70% shade cloth should be provided), Disa uniflora (50-70% shade cloth should be provided), Pleione (50-60% shade cloth should be provided), Zygopetalum (40% shade cloth should be provided), Dendrobium (30% shading should be provided), Masdevallia (70% shading should be provided), Coelogyne (50% shading should be provided). Shed cloths of green colour are generally preferred. Humidity for growing orchids Most of the orchids require 60% to 80% humidity. These humidity levels are necessary for the plants for best flowering and increasing longevity of the flowers. Even, these levels may be slightly higher; they are in fact well within the comfort zone for human, which are 40% to 70% of relative humidity. In the summer time, the natural humidity is usually sufficient to meet the needs of orchids, except on bright, sunny, dry days. Air conditioning in the summer and artificial heat in the winter, especially from forced air heating and electrical baseboard heating, will dry the air well below the need of orchids. Plants placed in the path of air conditioning or in the path of forced air heating or next to a radiator or next to a heat source can get quickly desiccated and lose their buds and even their leaves in just few days. A hygrometer can help to evaluate humidity of the air of the orchid poly house. Procedures to increase humidity around orchids If the humidity levels are consistently too low, growers need to buy a humidifier to increase the humidity level. Another way of increasing humidity is by setting orchid pots on trays filled with pebbles or gravel and with water, but plants should not be in contact with the water. The trays must be wide enough so that the leaves of orchids are over the tray (from where the humidity will raise). A tray for a single plant will not be of much help as the little humidity rising from it will disperse very fast. It is better to have have a dozen or more plants grouped together, they will create a micro climate with higher levels of humidity. The humidifier is the better solution. But mist should not blow directly on your plants as this will eventually wet them and promote bacteria and fungus growth that may kill the infected plants. Methods of watering your orchids The quality of water is extremely important for good culture; rain water is acceptable for watering orchids. Well water or underground water is acceptable if its content of total dissolved Solids (TDS) is below 120 ppm. Hard water (water with mineral contents TDS above 120 PPM) will create hard deposits on the leaves of plants. This may clog the pores on the leaves of plants. If your water is hard it may be beneficial to periodically (once to twice a year) clean the leaves with distilled water. The best water is water processed through a reverse osmosis system which will remove most of the minerals from the water.