Local fodder trees were identified to species level in North-east zone for feeding mithuns and yaks. Rations were prepared for mithuns but could not be popularized, as mithuns are still kept in semi-wilderness by farmers. Soybean-meal completely replaced the mustard-meal in broiler rabbit diet without causing any harmful effect. Insulin administration in mid-luteal phase improved the conception rate in cattle. Animals must be given chaffed straw, as it utilizes less bioenergy and leaves more energy for productive purposes which will improve animal productivity. Methanolic extract of tamarind effectively prevented fluorosis in cattle. Kaach (a byproduct from catechu industry) significantly reduced the methane production in sheep. Milk progesterone level in sheep indicated its reproductive status. Fibroblast cells from skin of goat were successfully cultured for cloning. Pregnancy- specific protein was observed in goats. Semen-preservation technique in goat was developed for field use. Lead and cadmium levels higher than permissible limits were observed in water, feed, fodder and blood samples of animals in pre-urban locality of Bangalore. Superovulation protocol was developed for ewes. Cervical moulds were made for ewes to develop suitable transcervical catheter. Draughtability of the donkey was studied. Cryopreservation of camel semen was attempted. Estradiol helped improving the first egg age in poultry. Testosterone level was found correlated with fertility of male quails. Administration of 25% glucose solution helped weak chicks to survive. Under Fish Production and Processing, different aspects of fisheries research were covered.The marine fish productions in India was estimated at 2.7 million tonnes. Fish yield assessment of five reservoirs of southern Rajasthan revealed that fish yield ranged from 23.0 to 172 kg/ha, with dominance of major or minor carps. A study carried out on fishery and biology of prawns in DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 6 Kayamkulam backwater of Kerala revealed that Penaeus indicus, Metapenaeus deobsoni and M. monocerros contributed substantially to the total catch. Identification and cataloguing of potential ornamental fish species was completed in the North-eastern states and West Bengal. A qualitative health assessment index (HAI) was developed for rapid evaluation of fish condition in the field . The general health status of fish populations in river Hooghly was evaluated. Mahseer fishery was developed in a lake in Champawat district of Uttaranchal. A breakthrough was achieved in spawning Asian catfish, Clarias batrachus spontaneously. The seed production of gangetic prawn, Macrobrachium gangeticum was done successfully.The giant freshwater prawn, M. rosenbergii cultured in pens, was installed in beels for 92-95 days and it attained a size of 135 mm/38 g to 148 mm/57 g.