 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 34 by electron microscopy (SEM/TEM) and SDS- PAGE. The nano emulsion and PLGA (50:50) nanoparticles were produced and characterized by dynamic light scattering, zeta potential and SEM imaging. Size and potential were found to be <500 nm and -12.5 mV for nano emulsion and <500 nm and -19.9 mV for PLGA nanoparticles, respectively. In order to express cytokines in the laboratory, IL4 and GM-CSF genes were cloned and expressed in human embryonic kidney 293 cell lines. Monocyte derived dendritic cells (MoDCs) generated from bovine PBMCs were stimulated with different combinations of FMD antigens, bacterial ghost, OMVs, nano- emulsion and SLNPs, and subjected to flow cytometry analysis for CD40, CD80, CD86 and MHCII (DC markers) Stimulation of MoDC with combination of PLGA nanoparticles and immunization of guinea pigs with vaccine formulation is underway. Host-pathogen-environment interaction of tilapia lake virus disease: The Chitralada, GIFT and local strains of Nile Tilapia were evaluated for their susceptibility to Tilapia Lake Virus (TiLV) through experimental infection. All the strains exhibited susceptibility to TiLV, with lower mortalities in Chitralada followed by GIFT and local strain. The expression profiles of MX, IL1β, and HSP70 genes were studied following TiLV infection at different temperatures. Gut microbiome analysis of sub-clinically and clinically infected Nile tilapia revealed significant diversity, suggesting a potential role in TiLV disease development. Screening of wild tilapia populations from reservoirs displaying clinical signs yielded positive results for TiLV in one reservoir, indicating its presence in nature. A sensitive single-step SYBR Green chemistrybased qRT-PCR assay demonstrated excellent reproducibility, with low inter- assay and intra-assay variation. Efforts have been initiated for the commercialization of this diagnostic assay. To identify risk factors associated with TiLV disease in tilapia farms, epidemiological studies were conducted in West Bengal, Kerala, and Maharashtra, covering 69 tilapia farms. A new viral pathogen, Tilapia parvovirus (TiPV) was detected in farmed Nile tilapia from Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. Targeted immobilization of Y-bearing spermatozoa and modulation of oviduct milieu for skewing sex ratio towards female offspring in dairy cattle: The sex specificity of the four identified potential proteins was assessed using FISH and Western Blotting techniques All the proteins were specific to Y-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa. A targeted immobilization method was developed, using iron nano particles conjugated with the developed antibodies (polyclonal), to immobilize the Y-Chromosome bearing spermatozoa.