 For promotion of Eatrite products, nutritionists/doctors/dieticians were sensitized by IIMR and for commercial portal IIMR launched www.iEatrite.com website. Simultaneously, outsourcing through the event managers was done for popularization of sorghum products (360 degree communication, brand designing logo, etc with BTL and ATL strategies implemented) in urban markets and New age Media. Massive awareness is created on sorghum as health and nutria food through road shows (100+) in public parks, malls, and institutes etc in Hyderabad and in exhibitions in imparting awareness of sorghum to across 40,000 consumers through fabricated Jowar Rath in Pune, Bangalore, Jabalpur, Chennai, Coimbatore, and New Delhi etc. Rural consumer drive was undertaken by ITC rural choupal haats to sensitize the convenience and nutritional aspects of the outputs from the sub-project. Commercialization: The pilot commercialization of sorghum products at Hyderabad started with launching of IIMR brand “Eatrite” with a tag line ‘Eat Jowar –stay healthy’. The range of products under this brand included: sorghum rich multigrain flour, sorghum semolina, sorghum pasta, sorghum vermicelli, sorghum flakes and sorghum biscuits/cookies. Suitable packaging, labeling, marketing and pricing strategies are adopted for targeting them to urban markets. These interventions made possible to provide convenient options for consumers among sorghum foods. Policy sensitization First initiative on public private partnership (PPP) in a big way happened when IIMR linked MoU with ITC (ABD) in 2008 under NAIP. Many other linkages across the millets growing belts are followed with Government’s programme INSIMP (Initiative for Nutritional Security through Intensive Millets Promotion) launched in 2011- 12 for promoting millets across the country with budget allocation of `300 crore under 12th Five-Year-Plan. Ultimately 200 processing clusters were set up for millets processing across the country with IIMR monitoring as the Centre of Excellence providing handhold trainings to the beneficiaries. SUMMARY An innovative intervention was initiated by IIMR led consortium under NAIP to create demand of millets in the country through production to consumption value chain. Backward integration of sorghum value chain was enabled with ITC (ABD) Ltd support under e-choupal platform where beneficiary farmers are market assured to ascertain their functionality, feasibility and sustainability of intensive sorghum cultivation. It is relatively a new phenomenon in India’s millets scenario, which paved the way for supply chain management and further strengthened the development and commercialization of sorghum products, positively impacting both farmers and entrepreneurs. The novel product development vis-à-vis determining their nutritional values, and simultaneously promoting and marketing them has enhanced the awareness and created more demand for these nutria-cereal based products.