 along with 10 g ginger and 3 g black pepper is prepared and divided in eight equal parts. It is given twice a day for 3-4 days to fever-affected cattle with symptoms of excess bile. The treatment is also helpful to maintain and regulate the body temperature effectively in cattle. Keywords: herbal treatment, Rothia spp., Andrographis spp., ginger, black pepper The farmers of village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment to cure fever in animals. Leaf paste is prepared by mixing 200-250 g bitter gourd leaves and a little water. This paste is given twice daily to the animal. By this treatment, animal gets cured with in a few hours. Keywords: bitter gourd {Momordica charantia) leaves, fever For treatment of cattle against fever, a mixture is prepared by mixing 20 g each of onion {Allium cepa), and garlic (Allium sativum) and 5 g timber (Zanthoxyleum alatum) with 20 g wheat flour and 10 g molasses. Round bolls are prepared by this mixture and fed to the affected animals. The farmers of Shimla district in Himachal Praddesh use this treatment to control fever in cattle. Keywords: fever, onion, garlic, wheat flour, timber In summer season due to hot weather animals generally suffer from fever. The bulbs of the kelly (Canna spp.) plant are crushed and juice is Facilitator: Dr L R Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill Shimla (HP) 171 005 Shri Komal, S/o Shri Ram Singh, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) People of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh at large Facilitator: Dr L R Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill Shimla (HP) 171 005 Smt. Kunti Devi, W/o Shri PS. Bisht, Sarson, Hawalbag, Almora (Uttaranchal) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3422 Use of akaua and karela to cure fever in animals 3423 Control of fever in animals by using pahari grass and mustard oil extracted, and fed to the affected animals. This effectively cures the animal from fever. Keywords: Carina spp., fever A paste is prepared by mixing 3-5 akaua leaves, 300-400 g karela and some water. This paste is given twice daily to the animal. This treatment is common in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: fever, akaua, karela To control fever in animals, the farmers of villages Nawapada (Band) and Pachomi of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use pahari grass and mustard oil. About 500 g pahari grass is mixed with 100 g mustard oil. Gentle massage is given with this mixture twice or thrice daily to the body of the animal to cure fever.