 A higher degree of neck blast also causes a higher level of seed infection and lower seed viability. This is because the blast fungus weakens the vascular, parenchymatous, and sclerenchymatous tissues of the neck area, which prevents nutrition from reaching the grains. Finger blast: The symptoms start at the tip of the finger and spread to the base before turning brown. In the affected areas, the fungus attacking the head results in inadequately formed grains or extensively blasted florets. The base of the fingers fails to expand further when an infection develops nearby, although the rest of the ear may continue to grow properly. The grains may turn black and sometimes the entire finger length of the ear is impacted. As the infection destroys the growing grains, shrivelled, blackened seeds appear. When the infection is at the seed-setting stage, empty fingers are seen. Under-developed seeds are produced when the disease infects later. Management Several disease management methods such as cultural, chemical and biological control have been recommended with variable success to reduce losses caused by the disease. Cultural management • Use of resistant varieties is always preferred because it reduces the yield losses and management costs which accompany the disease. Several blast-resistant varieties have been released from past years to till-date. Some of such varieties are listed in Table 1 with their salient features. • The best time to plant medium to late-maturing varieties of finger millet is the second fortnight of July in order to avoid finger millet blast, but early-duration cultivars may be sown as late as the first fortnight of August. It could be because the crop’s panicle emerging stage was more vulnerable to pathogenic invasion, which happens to coincide with favourable circumstances and virulent pathogens. • High plant density should be avoided. Managing seed rates, increasing the spacing and Leaf blast, neck blast and finger blast symptoms appeared in finger millets Indian Farming 11 April 2023 Table 1.