 The public relations and Media unit of ICAR also coordinates with National Agricultural Research System which consists of mainly 113 ICAR Institutes, 5 CAU and 63 SAUs guiding them on exhibition related issues. Leveraging Social Media DKMA has a strong social media unit assigned with the responsibility for maintenance, upgradation and development of ICAR and DARE websites. Theses websites have been upgraded with many new components such as implementation of ERP, content development system, research data repository, e-governance and e-procurement, ICAR Telephone Directory, AGRIS Inputting, Abstracting Journals, real time feeding of information on latest research activities, News, Conferences, Kisan Melas, latest publications, circulars, videos, media clippings from 113 institutes and ICAR HQ, DARE, State Agriculture Universities (SAU) and other sources. The information received is edited, images are processed ICAR tableau dedicated to International Year of Millets-2023 and uploaded to the websites in appropriate categories in real time. All the contents are translated in Hindi and uploaded to the respective websites simultaneously. Apart from above, the technical maintenance i.e. security updates, SSL certification etc. of both the websites are done regularly. Awards and Recognitions The DKMA efforts were applauded for showcasing ICAR and millets through a tableau on the occasion of 26th January 2023. ICAR took the lead in organization of MACS G-20 meeting at Varanasi from 17-19 April, 2023 where social media division of DKMA also played major role in showcasing the events and other activities. SUMMARY The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) is mandated to act as the Nodal Centre of ICAR for information, communication and knowledge management related activities of the Council. The DKMA shall put all concerted efforts to maintain the tempo to bring out research journals, popular magazines, scientific monographs, technical and popular books, handbooks, low-priced books, bulletins, reports, proceedings of conferences and a variety of miscellaneous titles regularly in English and Hindi for the use of scientists, researchers, students, policy planners, extension personnel, farmers and the general public to make ICAR brand outshine. *Corresponding author email: director.dkma@icar.gov.in Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming 7 January 2024 DBGC 3 – A promising genotype of desi chickpea for north east plain of India A K Choudhary1*, Santosh Kumar1 and Kumari Shubha1 1ICAR-Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Chickpea (Cicer arietinum L.) is an important crop in semi-arid regions, constituting an important component of low input agriculture in India.