 Importance of dairying in promoting sustainability, livelihood security and nutritional security Dairying is an important source of livelihood as well as a major sector which contributes to the GDP of India. Further India tops the global chart in milk production. Dairy has been observed to grow by 9–11% in 2022. Dairy ensures year-round employment to the farmers who otherwise may stay seasonally unemployed if undertaking a single enterprise. Moreover, it facilitates the active involvement of a greater proportion of women and employs them. Along with these, it assures food security as well as nutritional security for a large chunk of the Indian population. Thus, dairy can be seen as an active instrument for empowering rural women as well as achieving gender equality. Dairy is also a major source of additional income other than that received from agricultural production. This helps in the alleviation of livelihood security of the farmers. Dairy diversifies the agricultural economy and adds Indian Farming 73 (06): 56-60; June 2023 Indian Farming 57 June 2023 animals to agriculture, enabling integrated farming. The dairy enterprise provides various products such as milk which can be sold directly or used further as an input in the processing industry. Moreover, products like cow dung act as an organic source of nutrients to the soil as well as can help generate gobar gas which can be used as a fuel. It aids in reducing the dependence on chemicals for providing nutrition to the soil. It may reduce cultivation costs and soil deterioration, boosting farmers’ enterprise profits. Moreover, the wastage which can occur otherwise in a single enterprise, can be effectively reduced by recycling wastes from one enterprise into another. Thus, dairy improves enterprise sustainability and reduces environmental and climate degradation. Dairy has the potential to provide nutritional security to the rural as well as urban population. As of 2020, around 811 million populations has been suffering from hunger, in answer to which dairy products and milk can help to achieve the aim of zero hunger. Milk and processed dairy products contain several micronutrients and can help alleviate hidden hunger by supplying nutrients not found in other diets. Milk can help underprivileged mothers and children overcome food and nutritional scarcity by providing complete nourishment. Dairying and sustainability Livestock contributes more than 9% of total anthropogenic greenhouse gas emissions across the globe. Thus, while dairy is needed to improve food security, increased greenhouse gas emissions may accelerate climate change in the future, posing a serious threat. Hence, to improve the sustainability of the enterprise towards the environment, there is a need to enhance the efficiency of livestock production and dairying.