 Even the intellectual property of the local innovators could be protected and also upscaled with necessary support. b) Development of incubation/agri-business hubs: Agrarian scenario has dampened the spirit of farmers and often there are criticisms that farming no more fascinates the rural youth. Unemployment and migration are common in rural areas. Farmers and rural youth need to be motivated and trained for entrepreneurship development. Entrepreneurial opportunities and special government provisions are helping agri-enterprises to be developed. Many farmers who have been entrepreneurial have become successful achievers. There is need to replicate these cases. Several schemes have been rolled out by the govt to promote local enterprises. Setting up incubation centres and agribusiness hubs at block level will not only promote household enterprises but will also check the migration and related problems. Initiation of research programme for evaluating successful models of incubation, entrepreneurial ventures, and commercialization of agricultural technologies will help in pragmatic policy advocacy. c) Promotion of integrated farming system: Integrated farming systems are important for efficient management of available resources at the farm level, to generate adequate income and employment for the rural poor, for promotion of sustainable agriculture, for protection of the environment, and for livelihood security. The synergistic interactions of the components of farming systems need to be exploited to enhance resource-use efficiency and recycling of farm by-products. The IFS models for different classes of farm have the potential to generate additional income and employment than with rice-wheat or rice-rice alone, the system currently prevalent in major parts of the nation. Furthermore, these models may help resolve through diversification some of the existing land degradation and other agriculture-related problems, and also minimise risk to sustainability. The study illustrates the necessity to adopt an integrated approach, instead of a commodity- and disciplined- based one. d) Gender empowerment for food and nutritional security: Hidden hunger continues to haunt a large section of Indian population. Capacity building for nutrition education should be promoted. Nutri Farming System or Nutri Farming model would help farmers to grow 193 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead and trade nuti-rich food and earn better remuneration and at the same time help in eradicating hidden hunger. Gender empowerment is essential to face the changing paradigm shifts in agriculture. Mainstreaming the gender perspective needs to be reflected in all our policies and programs. Promotion of employment opportunities for SHGs through financial support and technological backstopping could bring a sea change in rural livelihood systems. Gandhiji always emphasized upon upliftment of women for the welfare of society.