 Under this act, the state governments can establish local agricultural markets, called mandis. Each state operates APMC mandis in different locations (Krishnamurthy, 2020; GoI, 2017). The number of mandis in a region is proportional to the state’s total area. Farmers are required to sell their produce in their home region. Traders in the mandi are obliged to get licensed by the state government. Finally, wholesalers and retailers cannot purchase products directly from the farmers. In the mandis, farm produce is sold via auction, and the sales process is controlled by commission agents acting as mediators between farmers and traders.6 The government does not set prices. The APMC Act of 2003 drastically changed the structure of produce marketing. Specifically, the act introduced contract farming, developed markets for perishable commodities, and allowed farmers to set up their markets. The 2003 act also relaxed rules for licensing firms, implemented a single market fee, which has been used for improving market infrastructure, and provided direct marketing opportunities and private wholesale markets. It also has helped ensure transparency in the pricing system by providing market-led extension services to deliver information on product prices, promoting payments on time (same-day payment), encour­ aging agricultural processing, and establishing public-private partnerships. APMC mandis and private traders or contractors are the most popular marketing outlets for smallholders engaged in the production of fresh fruit and vegetables in many states in India. Additional marketing outlet options include government procurement agencies (such as the Food Corporation of India), input dealers, and processors. 3. Study setting and data In early 2015, the United States International Agency for International Development (USAID), in conjunction with the International Food Policy Research Institute, South Asia, funded a research program to better understand the food security of Indian farmers, the integration of private firms in agricultural value chains, and firm-farm linkages in high-value crops, i.e., fruits and vegetables. The choice of crops and places to conduct the study was based on several criteria, including the presence of private contracting firms, the importance of the commodity in the state, the market size, and the farmers’ marketing channels. Specifically, the idea was to un­ derstand the farmers’ choice of marketing outlets, the income of smallholders specializing in the chosen commodities, and the consequent effects on livelihoods. Based on the above information, the International Food Policy Research Institute’s South Asia office 5 Haats are open-air markets conducted on a regular basis (weekly or twice a week) that serve as a marketplace as direct-to-consumers selling points (direct marketing) in rural areas and towns.