 Keywords: pokasunga, blood dysentery, honey Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2687 Use of onion extract for curing cholera In rural areas because of unhygienic conditions, people suffer from cholera. In this condition, patient is given onion extract. One or two onions serve as one dose. It immediately controls vomiting and nausea. Some times mint is also added to increase effectiveness and flavor. There is widespread use of this practice in rural areas of Jammu region of Jammu & Kashmir. Keywords: onion extract, cholera, mint Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul tural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2692 Use of flower buds of lasoora tree for curing dysentery In rainfed belt of Jammu and Kathua districts, if a person suffers from dysentery in the month of March-April, the flower buds of lasoora (Cordia obliqua dichotoma) is used for the treatment. The flower buds are cut into small pieces, mixed with gram flour, cutlets are prepared and given to the person suffering from dysentery. About 2-3 cutlets (twice-a-day) are given for two Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection.  days continuously. It has been observed that when the cutlets are taken with curd their effectiveness is increased. This prescription is popularly used in Kandi areas of Jammu and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: dysentery, flower buds of lasoora, cutlets Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2700 Curing ulcers in mouth of children Fresh roots (3 g) of agara (Argemone maxicana) and 3 black peppers are made into a fine paste and used to cure ulcers in mouth of children. Keywords: ulcer, agara, black pepper Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2691 Use of kauka (Ampelocissus latifolia) leaves for suppression of boils In this practice tender leaves of kauka (Ampelocissus latifolia) is made into a fine paste and applied locally on the boils for suppression. Keywords: kauka, boils Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2683 Curing cuts by use of koinsiri Commelina benghalensis) stem In this practice, exudates of fresh koinsiri (Commelina benghalensis) stem is applied locally to cure for cuts.