 The increasing utilisation by large agricultural enterprises including government efforts. Emphasise the monitoring of soil health, the management of irrigation, and forecasting of weather. Small farms may face obstacles due to the significant upfront costs and their dependence on internet connectivity. Education and training of farmers is necessary to effectively utilise data. Agricultural Robots Developed countries with high labour expenses mostly utilise this equipment for milking, harvesting, and weed control purposes. Continuing research and development efforts are focused on creating robots with increased versatility. The limited use of this technology is primarily attributed to its expensive cost and lack of applicability for small and scattered landholdings. Investigation into the development of robots tailored for cultivation of specific crops in India, such as tea and spices. The significant disadvantages of Indian agriculture include substantial initial expenses and restricted capabilities for various agricultural practices. R. Rakholia et al. Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 4 methods, producing coarse cereals, pulses, and oilseeds. These states provide a comprehensive view of how different regions integrate these technologies, making them crucial for studying the impact and effec­ tiveness of technological advancements in India’s agriculture sector. After obtaining an overview of the actual circumstances, a follow-up investigation needs to be carried out to enhance the present and future of agriculture. For this reason, the findings of previous research are taken into consideration to make suggestions regarding the policy that can be useful to boost the adoption rate, increase the income of rural areas, enhance productivity, and improve environmental conditions, all of which lead to an improvement in the future of the agriculture tech­ nology sector. Our is the third and last goal of this investigation. We also tried to compare the adoption of developing technologies in India and that in other countries to have a better overall picture of the world. Based on the study’s findings, we have also attempted to present cutting-edge technology with the greatest potential to advance the agricultural technological infrastructure throughout India. This brings us to the fourth primary goal of this investigation. The paper is orga­ nized as follows: Section 2 presents the case and methodology of the paper. In Section 3, results and discussion, while in Section 4 concludes practice-relevant discussions. 2. Methodology The objective of our study is to explore the factors affecting the adoption of new emerging technology, which helps to conclude in light of the objective of our study. To conclude, the data was analyzed to fulfill our study objective. The methodology, data source, procedure, and analysis method are described below. 2.1.