 A simplified hatchery system was developed for Penaeus indicus in 1976 (Muthu and Laxminarayana 1977; Silas et al. 1985). In 1975, AICRP on Brackishwater Fish Farming started with centers in West Bengal, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Kerala, and Goa. The yield was improved to 1000-1500 kg ha-1 with improvised farm-made feeds and health management. In the late 1980s, the MPEDA established two commercial hatcheries viz., TASPARC at Vishakhapatnam and OSPARC in Gopalpur, which paved the way for the establishment of several private hatcheries in subsequent years. A semi-intensive culture technology demonstrated in the early 1990s yielding 4-6 t ha-1 production through a pilot-scale project by MPEDA was a significant milestone. The 1990s witnessed significant growth in the adoption of commercial farming of black tiger shrimp. Subsequently, with the overall technical and logistical support from different organizations viz., ICAR-CIBA and MPEDA, India witnessed an extraordinary increase in the area under shrimp farming. One of the major turning points in brackishwater shrimp farming was the introduction of Specific Pathogen Free (SPF) L. vannamei in 2009. The introduction of SPF L. vannamei, followed by strict quarantine at the country level and biosecurity at the farm/hatchery level, strict adherence to better management practices (BMPs) and zero tolerance for antibiotics usage have transformed the sector. The adoption of eco-based technologies for sustainable Indian Agriculture after Independence 188 intensifications was actively mediated by ICAR-CIBA. With semi-closed intensive shrimp farming and BMPs productivity of 8-10 t ha-1 was achieved. Farming over the years has seen a gradual expansion in crop area not only in traditional states like Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Odisha and West Bengal but also in Gujarat. The shrimp production increased by over 30-folds during the last 33 years, from 28,000 tons in 1988-89 to 8,43,360 tons in 2020-21. While P. monodon contributes less than 3% of shrimp production, the remaining have been by L. vannamei. Following the tremendous success of L. vannamei farming in the coastal region, ICAR-CIFE at its Regional centre of Rohtak, Haryana was instrumental in developing the packages of practices for its commercial farming in inland-saline areas. The extensive demonstration programme by the center has resulted in large-scale adoption of its farming in the states of Haryana, Punjab and inland saline areas of other land-locked states. Penaeus indicus has shown to be a potential candidate species alternative to P. monodon or L. vannamei. Recent studies highlight its potential in zero-water-exchange systems and cultivation prospects in eco-based farming systems. ICAR-CIBA has standardized the culture practice of P. indicus in different agro-climatic zones. A nationwide culture demonstration showed a yield potential of 3-7 t ha-1 crop-1 at a moderate stocking density of 25-40 nos m-2.