 This book is an effort to document vast available knowledge on the various aspects of post-harvest management and processing, and it will prove worthy for teachers, students and extension workers for understanding post-harvest management and processing of fruits and vegetables. It has 16 chapters covering storage, packaging, advanced preservation technology and value-addition of fruits and vegetables. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 250 Price : Rs 350 Postage : Rs 50 Binding : Paper Back ISBN No. : 978-81-7161-115-4 Indian Farming 11 March 2023 Alternate wetting and drying technology for rice production Raghubar Sahu*, Asheesh Chaurasiya, Rakesh Kumar and R K Sohane Krishi Vigyan Kendra Banka, BAU, Sabour, Bhagalpur, Bihar 813 210 Practice of alternate wetting and drying (AWD) technology in rice is a viable option for water saving that has been implemented in various regions of India. However, its effectiveness has been limited due to requirement for more water and inconsistencies in nutrient supply in light textured soil. By adopting such potential water-saving techniques in rice cultivation, not only the crop yield improves, but also carbon sequestration increases, while reducing resource utilization including water, labour, energy and time, and lowering greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. AWD offers several significant benefits such as utilizing 23–33% less water, enhancing grain quality by reducing arsenic (As) and mercury (Hg) content, reducing GHG emission, improving water efficiency, maintaining or even increasing grain production. Additionally, intermittent irrigation with AWD method has proven successful in reducing disease and insect pest infestations in lowland rice. Keywords: Methane emission, Rice production, Water saving, Water use efficiency A LTERNATE wetting and drying (AWD), an irrigation scheduling methodology for rice production is an extensively investigated innovation for adapting agri-food systems to climate change, reducing environmental footsteps and ensuring a resilient and sustainable food production system. AWD is a low-cost invention that enables farmers to enhance total farm production efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and adapt to conditions of rising water shortage (drought). It is viewed as a strategy to develop agri- food systems into ones that are more productive, resilient, biologically diversified and equitable. AWD claims that maintaining food security and strengthening agricultural sector resilience to climate change needs re-thinking and re-imagining in a manner in which the impact of irrigation rice systems utilising AWD can be scaled up. Methane emissions from rice field in wetlands are contributing to global warming crisis, as methane Indian Farming 73 (03): 11-13; March 2023 traps 25 times more solar energy than carbon dioxide.