 KVKs also generate awareness about improved technologies and developmental programmes by organising Kisan Mela (Farmers’ Fair), field days, seminars, workshops, and farmers’ exposure visits to different institutions. The KVKs have emerged as a unique institutional mechanism to function as a Knowledge and Resource Centre and address capacity development needs of stakeholders. 6. Mahatma’s Vision for Self-reliance India requires about 32 Mt of pulses by 2030 at an annual growth rate of 4.2% to meet the ICMR recommended per capita dietary intake. Large-scale 163 technology application by KVKs contributed to self-reliance in Pulses production. Pulses are climate sensitive crops predominantly grown under rainfed situations, in marginal soils under resource constraints. Ensuring recommended daily availability of pulses per capita has always remained a challenge. ICAR took up implementation of cluster frontline demonstrations (3.5 lakhs) in farmers’ fields across the country through 590 KVKs. Improved high yielding, short duration, drought and pest/ disease tolerant cultivars of less than 8-10 year duration in all pulse crops coupled with seed treatment, in situ moisture conservation practices, weed management, crop protection, micro-irrigation and mechanized harvesting techniques were demonstrated to farmers in large clusters over three seasons at district level in all the states since 2015-16. Field days were conducted involving farmers from neighbouring villages and extension functionaries were also involved. Large-scale technology application by KVKs in farmers’ fields under the National Food Security Mission (NFSM) resulted in productivity enhancement between 30- 40% (2.2-3.9 q ha-1 in major pulse crops). The country’s pulses production crossed the 25 Mt in a short period. Quality seed is key for achieving seed replacement for increasing productivity in pulses. Seed hubs were established in 97 KVKs and about 79725 q certified seed of high yielding pulses cultivars was produced during 2018-20. 7. Gandhiji’s Vision of Trusteeship 7.1. Protecting indigenous varieties and land-races Farmers over generations developed different varieties and land races under different agro- climatic and agro-ecosystems. Realizing the importance of conserving these varieties and land races, an institutional arrangement was developed with Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA) for identification and registration of farmers’ varieties and organizing awareness campaigns by the KVKs. During the period of 2013-14 to 2016-17, as many as 7367 farmer’s varieties have been identified for registration with PPV&FRA. Kadaknath poultry breed found in Jhabua and Dhar Districts of Western Madhya Pradesh and adjoining areas of Gujarat and Rajasthan is unique for its richness of protein and characteristic meat quality.