 yy Keeping in view of forecasted high temperature, farmers are advised for harvesting of mature vegetables at morning and evening hours and keep harvested crops in shadow. yy Optimum moisture level should be maintained in cucurbitaceous crops by light and frequent irrigation as dry conditions may lead to poor pollination and thus drop in yield of the crop. 52 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy After harvesting of mature okra application of urea @ 5-10 kg/ acre should be done. Constant monitoring of crop against attack of mite is advised. Due to prevailing high temperature, light irrigation at short interval is advised. yy To control shoot and fruit borer in brinjal and tomato crops, infested fruits and shoots should be collected and buried inside the soil. If pest population is high, spraying of Spinosad 48 EC @ 1 ml /4 litres of water is advised. yy Farmers are advised to give light irrigation in the mature onion and garlic crops one week before digging. yy In citrus fruits, paint the plant with Bordeaux paste at the height of 2 foot and keeping in view of increasing temperature in this month regular irrigation should be followed. yy In Ber orchard at the end of this month training and pruning operation must be completed and after this practice spray the Bordeaux mixture followed. yy In the Papaya, Aonla, Guava, Custard apple, Sapota and pomegranate orchard regularly irrigation should be followed at the one-week intervals. yy In this moth suitable for layout and pit making for establishment of new orchard. yy In Lasorda collect the seed for nursery rising. For the Month of June yy Preparation of nursery raised bed and sowing of seed after treatment with fungicide @1g/kg of early cauliflower (Pusa early, Pusa Meghna, Pusa synthetic, Pusa Deepali), Brinjal (Pusa Purple cluster, Pusa Bindu, Pusa hybrid -5, Pusa Hybrid -6, Punjab Sadabahar and Pant Rituraj) and chilli (Pusa Sadabahar, Pant-C1 and Pusa Jawla) plant. yy After harvesting of mature summer okra and sowing of rainy season okra like Pusa Bhindi-5, Pusa A-4, Arka Anamika, Pusa Sawani and Pusa Makhmali @8-10 Kg seed per ha with the spacing of 60x30cm. 53 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS At the time of sowing 40kg Nitrogen, 50kg Phosphorus and 50kg Potash are applied. yy At the end of May month suitable time for sowing of Cowpea. yy May month also suitable for sowing of cucurbits crops like bottle gourd, cucumber, Tinda, Sponge gourd, Ridge gourd, Bitter gourd etc. yy In citrus fruits Canker disease spread intensively for its control after removing of dry and dead stem farmer should be spray Copper oxy chloride and streptocycline @1 g/lwater. yy In this moth suitable time for layout and pits making for establishment of new orchard of Pomegranate, Ber, Aonla, Sapota, Guava, Papaya, Citrus etc fruit plants. In each pit (1mx1mx1m) farmer should apply 20kg farm manure and 100g each of N, P, and K. yy In nursery, ber/aonla budding can be done during this period.