 Start-up India is a flagship initiative of the Government of India, intended to build a strong eco-system for nurturing innovation and Start- ups in the country that will drive Subject Specific ABI Centres at ICAR Animal Science: 7, Crop Science: 13, Agricultural Engineering: 5, Agricultural Education: 2, Horticulture: 12, Fisheries: 4, Natural Resource Management: 7 Indian Farming January 2020 67 sustainable economic growth and generate large scale employment opportunities. The Government through this initiative aims to empower Start-ups to grow through innovation and design. Start-up India initiative launched on 16th January 2016, consists of 19 Action Points that act as a guiding document for the initiative. As on 26th November 2019, there are 25,115 recognized start-ups in India. Under Start-up India initiative, an entity is considered a ‘Start-up’ if: • it is incorporated as either Private Limited Company or Registered Partnership Firm or Limited Liability Partnership. A sole proprietorship or a public limited company is not eligible as start-up • its turnover for any of the financial years has not exceeded INR 100 crore • it is working towards innovation, development or improvement of products or processes or services, or if it is a scalable business model with a high potential of employment generation or wealth creation • it has not been formed by splitting up or reconstruction of a business already in existence. • it is up to 10 years from the date of its incorporation/ registration Salient features of Start-up India action plan Compliance Regime based on Self- Certification with an objective to reduce the regulatory burden on Start-ups thereby allowing them to focus on their core business and keep compliance cost low. Start-up India Hub with an objective to create a single point of contact for the entire Start-up ecosystem and enable knowledge exchange and access to funding. • Rolling out of Mobile App and Portal with an objective to serve as the single platform for Start-ups for interacting with Government and Regulatory Institutions for all business needs and information exchange among various stakeholders. • Legal Support and Fast-tracking Patent Examination at Lower Costs with an objective to promote awareness and adoption of IPRs by Start-ups and facilitate them in protecting and commercializing the IPRs by providing access to high quality Intellectual Property services and resources, including FastTrack examination of patent applications and rebate in fees. • Relaxed Norms of Public Procurement for Start-ups with an objective to provide an equal platform to Start-ups across sectors vis-à-vis the experienced entrepreneurs/ companies in public procurement. • Faster Exit for Start-ups with an objective to make it easier for Start- ups to wind up operations.