 Mohapatra] Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR  v Foreword India has a vast resource of livestock and poultry, which plays a vital role in improving the socio-economic conditions of rural farmers. India possesses ~536 million livestock population, which includes 192.49 million cattle, 109.85 million buffaloes, 148.88 million goats, 74.26 million sheep and 9.06 million pigs, and poultry population of 851.5 million. A significant obstacle in growth and production of livestock and poultry is the prevalence of diseases that cause huge economic losses in India. The livestock productivity is adversely affected by various animal diseases and many of them are zoonotic also. Animal health management is important to reduce productivity losses and overall production from the livestock sector. Foot-and-Mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia inflict huge economic losses amounting to ~ Rs 14,000 and Rs 5,255 crores every year, respectively. In addition, many other infectious diseases of sheep, goats, pigs and poultry limit the true production potential of these livestock species and the economic return from their farming. ICAR has made significant contributions towards safeguarding the animal health in the country by developing several vaccines for use in livestock and poultry and their commercialization from time-to-time to meet the challenges of existing, emerging and re-emerging diseases. The availability of vaccines has positively impacted growth of the livestock sector hugely. The mass scale use of PPR vaccine developed by ICAR-IVRI, Mukteshwar campus resulted in reduction of >75 per cent disease incidence. This vaccine has a very high impact on livelihood security of poor people, who depend on sheep and goat rearing. Similarly, FMD vaccine developed at ICAR- IVRI, Bengaluru campus helped to reduce incidence of this highly communicable disease and has ultimately impacted on livelihood security of poor farmers. The ICAR has also been contributing to nation-wide control programmes for several diseases such as FMD, HS, PPR, Brucellosis, etc, by playing a key role in developing trained human resource in the area of animal health and production of veterinary biologicals. We strongly believe that this informative, concise compilation of veterinary vaccine technologies developed by the Animal Science Institutes of the ICAR will be a useful resource for all the stakeholders associated with the sector. [J.K. Jena] [B.N. Tripathi] DDG (Fisheries Science) DDG (Animal Science)  vii Diseases of livestock and poultry cause heavy economic losses in terms of reduced productivity and production. Some of them have zoonotic potential and therefore pose serious public health risk. The most effective way of preventing diseases is through the use of vaccines. Vaccines not only protect the vaccinated animals, but also reduce disease among non-vaccinated ones through herd immunity. They also reduce antimicrobial usage and minimize the risk of antimicrobial resistance.