 Use of drip irrigation system in Surat and Dharwad Centres led to higher yields, besides saving in water by 25%. Urea (2%), DAP (2%), KNO3 (1%), ZnSO4 (0.5%) and MgSO4 (1%), when applied to leaves, were superior in enhancing seed-cotton yield by 15-20%. Pendimethalin, Fluchloralin, Haloxyfop, Roundup and Prometryn were efficient in controlling weeds economically. Potato intercropping in cotton, a novel approach, gave higher profits in Dharwad. Soybean, mungbean and maize were found profitable for strip-intercropping in cotton in Guntur, Andhra Pradesh. Cotton-wheat, cotton-raya cropping system for north zone and cotton-sunflower and cotton-chickpea for Karnataka in the south zone have been identified as efficient double crop sequences. A two-row, cotton planter for small farmers of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maharashtra and also for dryland areas of Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, especially for vertisols, has been developed at the CICR, Nagpur. The implement weighs 50 kg and is pulled by a pair of bullocks. It can cover 1 hectare in 2 hours. The row-to-row spacing is kept at 60 cm, while seed-to-seed spacing varies from 30 cm to 120 cm. At Coimbatore, cotton-sorghum produced higher seed-cotton yield with more residual NPK left in the soil than cotton-fallow-cotton sequence. Crop Protection Spinosad and Indoxacarb insecticides were effective against bollworms more particularly to Helicoverpa armigera. New chemicals Bifenthrin and F 6028 showed high efficacy against bollworms and recorded high seed-cotton yield. Three RAPD fragments have been sequenced to design primers that are used as SCAR markers in molecular diagnostic kits to detect frequency of pyrethroid resistance in field population of Helicoverpa armigera. This is a significant step for developing a field usable, and cheaper technology for detecting insecticide resistance in cotton. SUGARCANE Crop Improvement A total of 28,419.1 g of fluff from 504 crosses has been despatched to 19 centres, representing 5 agroclimatic zones. The National Hybridization Garden 2001 has ● ●● ●● Released Pratima (a Gossypium hirsutum variety) and Bunny (an intra- hirsutum hybrid) for commercial cultivation in irrigated tracts of south zone. ● Developed a new source of cytoplasmic male sterility in cotton with aridum cytoplasm. ● A novel approach of potato intercropping in cotton gave higher profits in Dharwad. ● Developed a two-row, bullock-drawn cotton planter, especially for small farmers cultivating on vertisols. ● New chemicals Bifenthrin and F 6028 showed high efficacy against bollworms and recorded high seed- cotton yield. ● Sequenced 3 RAPD fragments for primers to be used in molecular diagnostic kits to detect pyrethroid resistance in Helicoverpa armigera population. ● ●● ●● Co 89029, Co Se 95422 and Co Se 92423 sugarcane, moderately resistant to red-rot, released for commercial cultivation. ● Recommended Co 86032 and Co 8021 sugarcane for iron-deficient soils.