 Cut-soiler technology for reclamation of saline soils: Cut-soiler, which cuts and opens V-shape furrow and fills it back with scattered straw and crop residues and kept below 60 cm soil depth have potential to manage both surface water-logging and soil salinity, and could serve as remunerative alternative of subsurface drainage technology for management of salt affected soils in India. Lysimetric study with different artificial conditions to study effects of the technology in different conditions with variable inputs, showed desalinization effect of cut-soiler in saline (6.73 to 5.5 dS/m) and heavy textured soils (0.86 to 0.34 dS/m). Cut-soiler lateral spacing of 2.5, 5.0, 7.5 and 10.0 m reduced 40.2, 27.7, 23.8 and 14.3% salinity Groundwater potential zones of Kakan watershed (left), Proposed sites of groundwater recharge structures (right) Cut-soiler working under field condition and pearl millet crop Groundwater potential zones Proposed sites of groundwater recharge structure ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 14 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Soil suitability map for grapes Thematic maps of soil suitability for grape growing in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal were developed in association with ICAR-NBSS&LUP, Nagpur. These maps will be useful for the identification of regions suitable for grape growing in non-traditional areas and/or explore feasibility to grow grapes for year around availability. Soil suitability for grape cultivation—Maharashtra Soil suitability for grape cultivation—West Bengal Soil suitability for grape cultivation—Madhya Pradesh ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 15 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY 8 in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar. The estimated yield enhancement is to the tune of 36.39 to 70.52% with a B:C ratio of 2.13 to 2.97 over the recommended practices. Mulching and inline drippers enhance irrigation use efficiency in oil palm: The technique of using plastic mulches in oil palm basins was standardised. Plastic mulching was effective in enhancing water-use efficiency as it recorded almost comparable yields with microjet irrigation (normal practice) when irrigated at 25% deficit irrigation in combination with normal drip and inline drip methods. Plastic mulching is effective in saving 25% water under deficit water conditions. Salinity tolerance threshold for Thompson Seedless grafted on Dogridge rootstocks: The tolerance rate of Thompson Seedless grapes grafted on Dogridge rootstock decreased with increasing salt concentration (shoot/root dry weight basis) with 0.25% salinity level of NaCl as the threshold value and the tolerance index at 102.36 (shoot/root dry weight basis). Soil salinity tolerance in tomato: Salinity study in tomato indicates that tomato cultivars (Kashi Aman and Kashi Adarsh) can tolerate moderate salinity (up to 6 EC) when grafted over brinjal rootstocks-IC 354557 and Surya. Tomato cultivar Kashi Aman showed 33.1 to 38.4% reduction in yield at 6.0 EC as compared to seedlings wherein 95.