0 (Fraga et al. 2021). It marks a noticeable change from Industry 4.0 that focused majorly on automation, data exchange and adoption of smart technology in the field of agriculture (Skobelev & Borovik, 2017). The additions in Industry 5.0 enables the farmers to leverage data analytics, sensors, and IoT devices to make more informed decisions about planting, irrigation, fertilization, and pest control. Instead of replacing humans with machines, Industry 5.0 in agriculture emphasizes collaboration between the farmers and technology. The labor intensive tasks are performed by the advanced instruments while the decision making and control stands in the hands of the stakeholders (Rane, 2023; Adel, 2022). This technology goes beyond the hard coding and enables the customizations and personalization based on the user specific needs and environmental conditions. Here, integration with blockchain technology is used to create transparent and traceable supply chains, ensuring food safety and quality while reducing waste and inefficiencies (Akundi et al. 2024). Going beyond the technology, it also works forward towards enhancing the skills and training of the farmers to keep them well updated of the changing technologies and to help them stay competitive in a rapidly evolving agricultural landscape (Mourtzis et al. 2022). The technology also aims to promote the sustainable and resilient agricultural practices. By combining traditional wisdom with cutting-edge technology, farmers can adopt regenerative farming methods that enhance soil health, biodiversity, and ecosystem resilience while mitigating the effects of climate change. It holds immense potential to reshape agricultural landscape, helping us to march into a future where human creativity seamlessly merges with cutting-edge technology, unlocking the full capabilities of Industry 5.0 (Figure 37) and setting up grounds for Society 5.0 (Aggarwal et al. 2024, Paschek et al. 2024). (Source: https://www.frost.com/frost-perspectives/industry-5-0-bringing-empowered- humans-back-to-the-shop-floor/) Figure 37: Technology enablers of Industry 5.0 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 4.5. Agriculture as Industry 5.0 A revolution and concept going way beyond the traditional manufacturing with emphasis on integration of humans and machines to collaborate more effectively is referred to as Industry 5.0 (Fraga et al. 2021). It marks a noticeable change from Industry 4.0 that focused majorly on automation, data exchange and adoption of smart technology in the field of agriculture (Skobelev & Borovik, 2017). The additions in Industry 5.0 enables the farmers to leverage data analytics, sensors, and loT devices to make more informed decisions about planting, irrigation, fertilization, and pest control. Instead of replacing humans with machines, Industry 5.0 in agriculture emphasizes collaboration between the farmers and technology.