 The relevance of each barrier and its importance is evaluated using a hybrid multi-criteria framework built on the theory of Fuzzy Delphi and Fuzzy Analytical Hierarchy Process to identify the most crucial barriers to the adoption of UAVs to implement precision agriculture in rural India. The paper suggests new avenues for accelerating technology adoption in rural areas of emerging economies. 1. Introduction Developing and disseminating technological solutions is crucial for attaining Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), as highlighted at the UN Rio+20 conference [1]. However, technology adoption in agrarian rural areas is impeded for multiple reasons slowing the attainment of SDGs [2]. Although conventional agricultural practices have their ad­ vantages, most of them are becoming ineffective because of climate change, population explosion, and increased food demand. Thus, these technologies require modification, upgradation, and replacement, and/or adoption in many countries. The adoption of modern technolo­ gies, such as UAVs, robotics, the Internet of Things (IoT) can help to increase productivity, sustainability, and efficiency in agriculture. Referred to as precision agriculture, it leverages modern technologies for acquiring data about the soil, weather, and crops, and using this information makes informed decisions about planting, irrigation, fertilization, and pest control. Among these technologies, the use of UAVs, popularly known as drones, is gaining traction around the world. The capabilities of UAVs offer flexibility to the farmers in analysing the crops at a desired spatial and temporal resolutions enabling them to take timely decisions [3]. Most of the currently available agricultural drones are semi-automatic devices that are edging towards complete automation [4]. These un­ manned devices have significant potential in collecting various spatial attributes to assist in agricultural planning. Recent developments in this technology offer safe, reliable, and affordable solutions for various ac­ tivities involved in agriculture [5]. Fig. 1 presents the typical UAVs being used in the agricultural domain. Fixed wing drones are configured with a fixed wing system and are similar to traditional manned aircrafts [6]. They have well known ad­ vantages such as longer flight duration, higher speed range, payload capacity and stability during flight. However, they require a consider­ able runway space for landing and take-off. Due to the design limita­ tions, they cannot handle missions with agile and complex manoeuvres. In contrast, Monocopter drones enable vertical take-off and landing (VTOL) and do not require a runway or operational space [7]. They offer * Corresponding author. E-mail address: jp.tamvada@soton.ac.uk (J.P. Tamvada). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Technology in Society journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/techsoc https://doi.org/10.1016/j.techsoc.2023.