 high (March to October) and low (December-January) for prolonged periods, and scanty rain is also uncertain. Besides, high solar radiation, low humidity, desiccating hot winds, frost and cold waves are the associated factors restricting the production of quality and disease-free seedlings of the solanaceous crops during the desired planting period. Growers of the region are very uncertain about the ready-made seedlings of crop genotypes from the nearby favourable climatic states and are also not in a position to produce their planting material from open- field nurseries as per the desired time of transplanting. In this region, the timely availability of solanaceous crop seedlings to raise spring-summer and rainy-winter seasons is always in concern owing to climatic adversity. Based on long-term studies on crop genotypes and the environment of production sites, a series of locally fabricated and cost-efficient structures have been designed for surface nursery development and tested at ICAR- CIAH with different types of covering materials for the specific season. The coat-type structures and transparent polythene or nylon-net sheet are found to be most appropriate for developing surface covering protective vegetable nursery schemes and raising seedlings year- round at the production site. Selection of Site and Nursery Preparation The desert and sand-dunes landscape coarse soil is an excellent medium for surface nursery development and quality vegetable seedling production. Land area should be well protected, open and connected with the water supply pipeline. Nursery sites should be thoroughly ploughed and prepared during November and May and used in rotation. Soil solarization is essentially done during May month as the temperature is very high (above 45 ºC). For this, wet the selected nursery site area soil with water and cover it with a transparent polythene sheet (120-200 gauges) for a week, and it should be air-tight. For a hectare crop area seedling, 50-60 m2 surface nursery plot is enough. It is prepared in two parallel beds (length × width of 25×01 m). The field should be prepared to the fine-tilth and enriched with organic manures. Apply 1.5 kg well-rotten and fine-grain sheep-manure or farm- leaf compost and 500 g vermicompost per square meter area of the nursery bed. Plough 2-3 times with power-tiller for thorough pulverization. Beds should be about 20 cm raised from field-plot. For preparation of surface covering vegetable nursery, coat-type structures of 10-12 feet length and 80-90 cm width and height are fabricated using 1.5 cm wide and lightweight angle-iron. About 15 structures are enough Hanuman Ram1*, D K Samadia2, A K Verma1 and P S Gurjar3 Technology January–February 2024 27 for 50-60 m2 nursery area with two beds and arranged properly just after seed sowing. For uniform and regular irrigation, a pair of lateral lines 30 cm apart (16 mm) with 4 lph in-line emitters at 30-40 cm distance is fixed on each raised bed.