8 Sprouting in yam by cow dung slurry Description of the ITK Tuberous roots of yam are divided into many pieces, weighing 150 to 200 g dipped in freshly prepared cow dung slurry, dried in shade and kept in sand for sprouting. This results in sprouting within 5-6 days, giving 100% germination. Application of cow dung slurry prevents the entry of micro-organisms, loss of moisture from the cut ends and supply the nitrogen required during initial stages. By this practice the farmers get additional income of Rs. 10,000/acre over planting only tops of the tuber. It is being followed by almost all the yam-growing farmers in Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Odisha. Name of the discloser Shri Narendra Bisoyi, C/o Binayak Bisoyi, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Odisha) 761126. Location of use of the ITK Village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam, (Odisha) 761 126. Experimenters Dr. S. K. Naskar, Principal Scientist; Shri P. Sethuraman Sivakumar, Scientist (Agricultural Extension) and Dr R.C. Ray, Principal Scientist, Regional Tuber Crops Research Centre, Bhubaneshwar 761126 (Orrisa) Results and discussion Efficacy of cowdung slurry in inducing sprouting of yam was evaluated through field study and experimental methods during 2002-2004. Sprouting of yam setts was higher when treated with fresh cow dung slurry under both on-farm (100%) and research station (92%) situations. In contrast, the application of Bavistin + ash resulted in sprouting of 78% and 84% under on- farm and research station conditions, respectively. Sprouting of all the 36 setts was achieved in 35 days when the setts were treated with fresh cow dung slurry, which was 97% with chemical method. About 81% were sprouted in 35 days when no treatment was imposed. Treated yam setts spread on the moist sand for sprouting Early sprouting, facilitated by application of fresh cow dung slurry, resulted in obtaining higher yield of tubers both at research station and at farmers’ fields. It was also found that, unsterilized fresh cow dung helped in better sprouting (97% on 30th day) over the sterilized treatment, observed on different days, indicating the role of micro-organisms present in fresh cow dung. Conclusion Application of fresh cow dung to the cut tubers induced early sprouting. There was not much difference in sprouting behaviour beyond 30 days, and hence yam setts can be kept in nursery not more than 30 days before planting in the main fields. Results of the study also indicate that enhancement of early sprouting is due to nutrients, organic matter content of cow dung as well as effect of bacteria and actinomycetes present in the cow dung. However, sprouting is inversely related to phenol content. Further, in the treated tubers the protein content was high, resulting to increased enzymatic activity in tubers during germination process. 5.9 Off-season flowering in guava Description of the ITK The farmers bend down the branches of guava about 45 to 60 days before flowering in 3 to 8 years old plants.