 Long term studies on relative efficiency of legume cereal rotations: • At Durgapura, green manuring during summer had beneficial effect on succeeding crop of pearlmillet. At Kathalgere, rice‐sunhemp was beneficial to hybrid maize. At Raipur, rice‐ wheat‐greengram was more economical whereas at Kota, sorghum‐wheat‐green manure was better than other crop sequences. System based maximum yield research: • In rice‐rice crop sequence, the additional dose of 50 percent fertilizer and 7.5 t of FYM/t recorded maximum yield (8.3 t/ha). In case of pearlmillet‐wheat at S.K.Nagar, Gujarat, higher yield of 6.0 t/ha was observed with 15% recommended dose of fertilizer. Under rice‐ wheat crop sequence at Sabour, additional dose of by fertilizer by under rice‐sunflower crop sequence, the highest productivity. At Raipur, under rice‐sunflower crop sequence, the highest productivity. At Raipur, under rice‐sunflower crop sequence, the highest system productivity (11.7 t/ha) was recorded by application of fertilizer to the tune of 150% of recommended one and 10 to FYM/ha. Resource characterization and constraint analysis including policy related issues, socio‐economic aspects and agro inputs: • Rice‐wheat was the major cropping system in Haryana, Punjab, Bihar and Jammu. The percent area to cultivated area occupied by rice‐wheat system ranged from 22.5 percent in Begusarai in Bihar to 89.3 percent in Sudhar in Punjab state. In Hisar district of Haryana, cotton‐wheat cropping system occupied about 50 percent of total cultivated area. In Punjab rice‐potato cropping system was also identified as major cropping system which occupied about 18% of total cultivated area. In J&K, maize‐wheat cultivated area found to be major www.icar.org.in 30 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management cropping system which occupied about 90 percent area in Rajouri and Udhampur district and about 43 percent in Jammu. Maize‐wheat cropping system was also a major cropping system occupying about 35 percent areas in Begusari of Bihar state. Arhar‐fallow was found major cropping system in Gulberga district of Karnataka while green‐gram‐jowar was identified as major cropping system in Gulberga and Raichur districts which occupied 22‐68 percent area to total cultivated area respectively. On‐farm testing, verification and refinement of system based production technologies. • The factor responsible for lowering down and stagnating the production potential of different crop sequences were identified so as to increase the yield. In rice‐rice‐rice crop sequence at Ernakulam (Kerala) imbalance use of fertilizer was identified as the main constraint, Recommended fertilizer application (90:45:45 kg N,P&K/ha) increased yield significantly over farmers practice (40:30:18 kg N,P&K/ha). In rice‐rice crop sequence at Mandya (Karnataka), deficiency of Zn was the most felt constraint. The application of Zn SO4 @ 40 kg/ha enhanced the grain yield by 15.9 and 22.