 Description (Background) The system's central hypothesis is to apply the right amount of water at the right time to fulfill the water requirement of the crop. For achieving this condition, the intelligent irrigation system consist of a soil moisture sensors and temperature sensor installed at the effective root zone of a specific crop in undisturbed soil. It also consists a micro irrigation system, irrigation pump and electric solenoid valve in farmland fields using WSN, supported by communication technologies such as ZigBee/LoRa. Al/loT-based intelligent irrigation system — automate the collection of environmental, soil, and irrigation data; automatically correlate such data and filter-out invalid data from the perspective of assessing crop performance; and compute crop forecasts and personalized crop/irrigation recommendations for any particular field. After installing the sensors, set a lower set point (LSP) and a higher set point (HSP). When the available soil moisture content is below the LSP, the sensor sends signals to the controller to start the irrigation system to deliver water up to the field capacity (HSP). At the same time, it sends the text message to the user's mobile about the ON and OFF of the pump. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 116 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 117 Once the soil has reached HSP, the sensors send a signal to the microcontroller. The microcontroller stops the pump, and at the same time, text messages sent to the user. The detail of the solenoid valve and pump operation is sent to the user's mobile in text SMS. The controller hourly saves the soil moisture content in the memory card over the entire crop period, so one can quickly get information about the entire crop period's field condition. The controller has the capacity and facility to store the data of soil moisture content in the field for two years, and it can be increased. -Materials and methods An AI-based irrigation system with sensors placed throughout crop field utilizes IoT protocol (MQTT) to collect real-time data on soil moisture levels, weather prediction from weather website. By integrating AI algorithms with IoT devices, users can optimize water usage to increase crop water productivity and reduce costs. These sensors continuously transmit data to the cloud server, the information are analyzed that help us make informed decisions about when and how much water should be applied to crops. Specifically, written algorithm can process data on weather forecasts on rain, and sensor readings to generate precise irrigation schedules suitable to the specific needs of crop and field. This optimization helps prevent overwatering or underwatering, leading to improved water efficiency and reduced water wastages.