 The vegetables are a perfect candidate for inclusion in the National Nutrition Mission (Poshan Abhiyaan) of Government of India to take care, in particular, of the nutritional status of adolescent girls, pregnant and lactating mothers as well as the children. The vegetables ensure availability of enough nutritious and diversified food that is produced locally. Thus, providing the employment as well as nutrition to the local masses. The training programmes are organized regularly by IIVR, Varanasi to disseminate the knowledge and skills among the growers about different aspects of vegetables to enable them to improve their efficiency, thereby the lifestyle in a sustainable way. The training programmes for the officers are also conducted to spread the skills to a broader area. In addition to it, the research students from different educational and research organizations are also nurtured by the institute in the interest of quality education. Most of the vegetable farms belong to small and marginal category and the women also have a major role to play in vegetable cultivation right from the sowing of the seeds, nursery raising, intercultural operations to harvesting, preservation and seeds extraction. The IIVR, Varanasi empowers them by imparting trainings for their skill development and to make them confident in small scale vegetable farming as well as allied endeavours like mushroom cultivation so that they may take up the enterprise at their own level. Some of the all women group have started vegetable nursery, mushroom cultivation, etc. by the efforts of IIVR, Varanasi. This makes them self-reliant and enthuse a sense of achievement and capability. The various improved varieties of vegetables developed from the institute as well as production, protection and preservation technologies help to reduce the drudgery, providing a decent work environment. The improved technologies also help in enhancing their incomes which gradually contributes to the overall economic growth. The institute strives to promote safe vegetable production and minimize the losses. For the purpose, various recommendations have been generated for responsible/safe use of pesticides, minimizing biotic stresses through non-chemical ways as well as regular trainings, etc. to farmers and officers to adopt the safer methods for production. Some post-harvest technologies have also been generated to minimize the post-harvest losses. The institute is also working towards SDG of climate action. Under this, two high temperature resilient hybrids (Kashi Adbhut and Kashi Tapas) have been developed in tomato for cultivation during the high temperature (>38°C day temperature) in summer months of northern India. Apart from tomato, a variety of spinach beet (Kashi Baramasi) has also been developed which can be cultivated round the year and a hybrid of radish (Kashi Rituraj) which is capable of performing under high temperature regimes, as during the summer months of northern India.