 Then cooled mixture and flower mixture are mixed in the pot and again fried for 5 min. Cooled pickles are kept in earthen pot tied with clean cotton cloth. It may be used up to 3 months. This ethnic pickle is specially given to a person who is suffering from weakness, influenza and fever to get relief. Keywords: pickle, drumstick, influenza, flower This ITK is followed in village Kerla of district Jodhpur in Rajasthan. Ker (Capparis decidua) is the one of the important bushes of the desert. The Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Ms Vinod Kanwar Bhati. D/o Shri Dungar Singh, Thakur Virendra Nagar (Near First Content ETHNIC FOOD Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3553 Using kerda fruits to make vegetable and pickle by the resource-poor people green and forest fruits are collected and processed for pickle and cooking as vegetable. Preparation of ker vegetable: Ker is somewhat bitter in taste. Therefore, it is soaked in salt-mixed buttermilk for 3—4 days in a mud pot. Bitterness can also be removed by boiling it for 30 min on low heat. Afterwards it is dried in shade and spread on a cotton cloth. Now sweet ker is ready for preparing vegetable. This should not be prepared in bronze pot. It is fried in oil by adding spices mixed in curd and stirred continuously. After that, ker and water are added in it and cooked for 10 min. Pickle of ker: For pickle preparation, sweet ker (edible) is boiled and then all spices are mixed in it. In another pot, oil is heated and after cooling it is poured on ker and kept in a jar. It is kept in well-ventilated place. After 1 week the pickle is ready to eat. Keywords: ker, vegetable, pickle, buttermilk, spices The resource-poor people of many blocks of Bhavnagar, Surendernagar and Kheda districts in Gujarat prepare vegetable and pickle from kerda (Capparis decidua) fruits, which grows naturally under varying geographical conditions. It is a xerophytic plant and has two cultivars, one with big size-fruits and other with smallsize fruits. Cultivars with small- size fruits are used as live fence. Fruits of big-size cukivars are collected from May to July. Collected fruits are cut into small pieces and fried in groundnut oil by adding garlic and onion. For preparing the pickle, fruits are washed and boiled with alum water. Salt, sugar and a few local RAC), Jodhpur (Rajasthan) Dr. Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agri. Extension & Rural Sociology). College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.