 In compliance, on the recommendations of a taskforce chaired by Dr S K Malhotra, the then Agriculture Commissioner, National Beekeeping and Honey Mission (NBHM) was formulated under his guidance with the aim of overall promotion and development of scientific beekeeping in the country to achieve the goal of Sweet revolution. This mission promotes holistic growth of beekeeping industry for income and employment generation. Concerted efforts through this mission, increased honey production from 77000 MT (2018–19) to 1,30,000 MT (2022–23), whereas export of honey has also increased from 43000 MTs to 60000 MT (2021–22), taking the revenue earned through export to more than 700 crores. As a result, India is among the world’s top five honey producers. Madhukranti portal for online registration/traceability system prepared under his guidance for ensuring source of honey, was also launched by Hon’ble Cabinet Agriculture Minister on 8 April 2021. As a result of concerted efforts under this mission more than 10,000 bee-keepers and honey societies/firms/companies with 16 lakh honey bee colonies are registered with National Bee Board and linked to Madhukranti portal. The hundred FPOs, 14 National Agricultural Cooperative Marketing Federation of India Ltd (NAFED) Honey Corners have been provisioned to provide market support. Twenty-nine bee breeders developed for production of quality honey bee colonies along with queens and each bee breeder will produce at least 2,000 bee colonies every year. Credit goes to Dr S K Malhotra for establishment of 16 Integrated Beekeeping Development Centres (IBDCs) and 3 Regional Honey Testing Labs (IARI, New Delhi; IIHR, Bengaluru and IIVR, Varanasi) and 28 mini labs in the different agro-ecological regions. Indian Council of Agricultural Research also promotes location and situation specific research on important issues through All-India Coordinated Research Project on Honey Bees and Pollinators (26 centres), spread over different agro-ecological regions of the country. E DITORIAL National bee and honey mission is key to sweet revolution (S.K. Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 May 2023 Vermicomposting technology: An effective cluster based entrepreneurship development approach among farm women Monidipta Saha and Narayan Chandra Sahu* Sasya Shyamala Krishi Vigyan Kendra, RKMVERI, Arapanch, Sonarpur, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 150 Vermicomposting technology is a successful approach for promoting compost utilization, organic farming, economic development and improving soil health. However, principal bottleneck of this technology dissemination in broad scale is the lack of proper scientific knowledge about composting and the limited productivity due to discrete production leading to unstable production rate and poor marketing possibilities.