 Thorny bushes are run on canopy of groundnut to reduce the incidence of leaf miner in groundnut and also control of Helicoverpa in sunflower. Keywords: Helicoverpa, thorny bushes, leaf miner (e) Use of organic pesticides to control pod borer in pigeonpea: Farmers of Mahaboobnagar and Kurnool districts of Andhra Pradesh are using this practice. Spraying of neem, chilli, garlic and bougainvillia extracts is done to control pod borer in pigeonpea. Keywords: organic pesticides (f) Control of aphids in pulses and black smut disease in sorghum: This practice is adopted in many parts of the country. Application of tobacco  decoction mixed with soap emulsion is done to control aphids. Keywords: tobacco decoction, soap emulsion The functional aspects of some of the ingredients used in the practice are as follows: 1. Pulp of baobab (Adansonia digitata) tree is used as a fumigant to repel biting insects from domestic cattle. It contains citric acid (0.85%) toxic principle. 2. Insecticidal use of oilcake, as it contains saponins. 3. Seeds and leaflets of Albizia chinensis possess toxicity. 4. Seeds, leaflets, petioles and pods of siris (Abizia lebbeck) tree are insecticidal. Its leaves contain caffeine acid, alkaloids, kaempferol and quercetin, along with tannins in bark. 5. Leaves of Allophylus cobbe are used as fumigants against honey bees to stupefy them. It contains phenyl, acetamide and traces of alkaloids. 6. Cashew nut (Anacardium occidentale) possesses pesticidal properties. Its’ oil contains phenolic compounds. 7. Agawood or eaglewood (Aquilaria malaccensis) powder is used against fleas and lice. It contains essential oil. 8. Nagdona (Artemisia vulgaris) plants yield 0.2%, oil which possess pesticidal properties. 9. Seed, kernel, oilcake and leaves of neem (Azadirachta indica) possess pesticidal properties. 10. Seed, kernel and bark of Barringtonia racemosa are toxic and its kernels contain saponin (3%). 11. Leaves of Sultana champa (Calophyllum inophyllum) possess pesticidal peroperties. 12. Stem resin of white dhup (Canarium euphyllum) is used as insect repellent. 13. Amaltas (Cassia fistula) possesses insecticidal properties. 14. Leaves and fruits of common emetic nut (Catunaregram spinose) possess insecticidal properties, which is used against stored grain pests and its’  fruits contain toxic saponins. 15. Camphor tree (Cinnamomum camphora) possesses insecticidal properties and it contains essential oil. 16. Seeds of Croton oblongifolius possess pesticidal properties and it contains toxic diterpenoids. 17. Flowers of gulmohar (Delonix regia) possess insecticidal properties. 18. Seeds of dadap (Erythrina indica) contain insecticidal properties 19. Oil from leaves of lipstic tree (Eucalyptus sp.) possesses insecticidal properties and contains toxic terpenes. 20. Young shoots of Gardenia gummifera is used to kill maggots in wounds of animals and it contains cumbigum. 21.