 In addition to the already identified institutions for drone demonstration, other agricultural institutions of the state and central government, and central public sector undertakings engaged in agricultural activities have also been brought to the eligibility list for financial assistance for farmers’ drone demonstration. Agri-Drone project in ATARI Pune ATARI Pune Zone-VIII covers the states of Maharashtra, Gujarat and Goa comprising 82 KVKs; of which 50, 30 and 2 exist in the respective states. Ministry of Agriculture under the Agri Drone Project of Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization has sanctioned 40 drones in the year 2022-23, 7 to State Agricultural Universities, 23 to ICAR Institutes and 10 to Krishi Vigyan Kendras. Drone pilot training in ATARI Pune Directorate General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) has authorised 63 Remote Pilot Training Organizations (RPTO) in the country. RPTO centres have been approved by DGCA for providing drone pilot training and skilling across the country. ATARI Pune organised pilot training for the implementing centres at 3 RPTOs viz. MPKV, Rahuri, Maharashtra; Rashtriya Raksha University, Gandhinagar, Gujarat and Centre for Aerospace, Chennai, Tamil Nadu. In RPTO MPKV, Rahuri, Maharashtra, 35 remote pilots trained from 3 agricultural universities, 9 ICAR institutes, and 6 KVKs. In RPTO RRU, Gandhinagar, Gujarat, 22 drone pilots were trained from 4 agricultural universities, 1 ICAR operations in horticulture, agriculture, and forestry. Spraying for weeds, insect-pests, and disease management, spreading fertilizers as well as planting new forests are the diverse uses now being found for drones. Potential application of drone technology in agriculture Crop spraying: The technology was first implemented in Japan in the 1980s when unmanned helicopters equipped with spraying equipment and pesticide tanks were used to spray crop fields. Typical modern-day spraying drones have a tank capacity of over 10 litres of liquid pesticide with a discharge rate of over a litre a minute, allowing them to cover a ha in 10 minutes. Drones can carry reservoirs of suitable size, which can be filled with fertilizers, herbicides, or pesticides for spraying on crops in large areas in a relatively shorter time. Crop spraying is much safer and cost-effective because of its autonomous and _ pre-programmed run on specific schedules and routes. Drones are also programmed to self-adjust their altitude and speed using ultrasonic echoing, time-of-flight (TOF) lasers and Global Navigation Satellite System (GNSS) signals to achieve uniform and optimum spraying results across varying topography. Smart farms are using drones for agriculture spraying, which reduces human contact with harmful chemicals such as fertilizers and pesticides. Drones are also unparalleled when it comes to spot treatment automated with stress detection technology, which uses sensors and cameras to treat affected areas while leaving the healthy parts intact.