 Specialists from the institute were dispatched at short notice to conduct investigations and advise appropriate therapeutic and control measures for wildlife health management. Important disease outbreaks or cases diagnosed were typanosomosis in blackbucks at Nandanvan Zoo, Raipur; generalized tuberculosis in spotted deer at Sakkarbaug Zoological Park, Junagadh; and babesiosis in lion at Lion Safari, Etawah. Emergency treatment services were provided by the specialist team whenever required. Most notable among these were surgical intervention to treat idiopathic megacolon in a Bengal tiger (T-24) at Sajjangarh Biological Park, Udaipur and treatment of massive suppurative wound in an elephant in the Dudhwa National Park, Uttar Pradesh. from Drug Controller of India, Karnataka. ‘Indigenous Vaccine’ treats JD in all 4 domestic livestock species. Vaccine was both ‘Preventive and Therapeutic’. Inked MoU with M/S Biovet (P) ltd., Bengaluru, CIRG (ICAR) and CSIR, New Delhi; and transferred vaccine strain ‘S 5’ of Mycobacterium avium subsp. paratuberculosis ‘Indian Bison Type’ for commercial production of vaccine (Bio JD oil & Bio JD gel) by M/S Biovet (p) ltd., Karnataka. Pig Methicillin resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA): Livestock-associated MRSA (LA-MRSA) can be transmitted to humans in close contact with MRSA infected / colonized animals. Characterization of MRSA isolates from pigs through Staphylococcal cassette chromosome mec (SCC mec) typing revealed the presence of types III with 41.66% isolates and type V with 58.33% isolates. The study will help to elucidate the epidemiology of LA-MRSA. Detection of PPV, PCV and CSFV: Classical swine fever, porcine circo virus and porcine parvo viruses are commonly associated with reproductive problems in pigs. A multiplex PCR was developed for simultaneous detection of these three viruses. Equines Surveillance, monitoring and control of existing and emerging disease of equines: NRCE screened 5,360 samples for equine infectious anaemia (EIA), 2,660 serum samples for equine influenza, 1,735 samples for EHV1 (equine herpes virus 1), 1,546 samples for JEV and 13,980 samples for glanders and 1,531 samples for trypanosomosis. All serum samples were negative for EIA. EHV1 and JEV had seropositivity in 14.04% and 2.87% cases, respectively. Major concern during the year was the occurrence of glanders, which spread to newer areas with detection of positivity on 60 animals from the states of Jammu & Kashmir, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Gujarat and Uttarakhand. Burkholderia mallei could be isolated from five biosamples. Recombinant equine influenza virus (EIV): All the eight gene segments of H3N8 (Indian EIV strain) were cloned in pHW2000. The recombinant virus containing HA and NA gene segments of H3N8 and other six segments of H1N1 (wsn) was generated.