 (a) When salai (Boswellia sarata) tree sprouts green leaves profusely, the rains are expected to be normal. (b) When kokila bird (Black cuckoo) sings intensely in the night hours then indicates the arrival of rains on next day. (c) If the wind blows from south- north direction continuously for 3 days, the rains are expected in next 2-3 days. (d) If white clouds appear by the end of September and October at regular intervals, then there is good chances of receiving rains. (e) When the ants move fast in the ant-hill, it indicates the arrival of rains in a day or two. (f) When heavy rains are expected, a typical grinding sound is heard through ant hills. Keywords: salai tree, kokila, ant hill, wind direction Dr O. P. Ingle Associate Professor and Head Department of Extension Education, Dr. Punjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola (Maharashtra) 444 104 2721 Weather forecasting due to sudden change in direction of wind flow during spring season Weather forecasting about rains in spring season is done for timely harvesting of rice crop for collecting rice for seed purpose. The farmers of Sumara Pradha village of Khurda district in Orissa can anticipate rainfall during spring (February - March), i.e. before akhaya trutiya (beginning of cropping season in Oriya), if there is sudden change in the direction of wind flow i.e. north-eastern wind. Thus rice crop is saved from pest and disease attacks. This is an age-old practice. Keywords: weather forecasting, Ms Bishnu Priya Mishra Training Associate (Extension Education), KVK, Ganjam, Bhanjanagar (Orissa) 761 126  spring season, akhaya trutiya, north-eastern wind 2297 Weather forecasting in almanacs relating to farming operations Shri Sumanta Kumar Mishra studied the theoretical basis of weather forecasting in panchang and ancient literatures for Extenhis Doctorate degree which has been accepted for award of Doctor of Univerphilosophy degree in Agricultural Extension by Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi in 1998. Some of the findings which are indicative of receipt of rainfall are mentioned below. 1. According to Varahamihira and others, the formation of clouds takes place before 195 days from the days of their fall. According to them, symptoms of cloud formation are to be detected when the moon transits the asterism (nakshatra) of Purvashadha, commencing from the first day of the lunar month of margashira. Foetuses formed the dark-half will come out in the bright half and vice versa; those formed in day time will come out at night and vice versa; those formed at dawn will come out in the evening and vice versa; if formed in east will give water in west and vice versa; and if formed in north will rain in south and vice versa. 2. Good symptoms at the time ofconception of clouds are a delightful and cool breeze from north, north-east and east; a clear sky; a good twilight; groups of birds and animals chirping pleasantly in the north, north- east and east etc.