 The fruits should be picked only when they are so ripe as to fall into the hand at the lightest touch. The pruned bushes may yield 2-3 kg per plant. The fruits can be eaten fresh. The syruped fruits are excellent for fruit cups, salads and pudding, ice cream. They are often used to make jam, jelly, or pickles. For further interaction, please write to: Prakash Chandra Tripathi, (Principal Scientist), Division of Fruit Crops, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru 560 089. *Corresponding author e-mail: prakaashtripathii2000@yahoo.co.in Fruiting branches of Surinam cherry (a) and ripe fruits (b) a Fruiting in star gooseberry (a) and mature fruits (b) a b b Indian Horticulture 40 A D Munshi, T K Behera, Amish K Sureja*, B S Tomar, J Singh and S S Dey Pusa Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 The cucumber (Cucumis sativus L.), known as Khira in Hindi is a very popular and important vegetable grown in hills and plains of India. It is used as salad, pickle and also as cooked vegetable. Apart from being used as salad, it is also used for pickling and rayata preparation. Due to good taste and low energy content, they are regarded as refreshing condiment. In north Indian plains, generally two crops are taken in a year viz. spring-summer and kharif season crops. The consumer preference in India is long cylindrical type, medium thick indigenous (desi) hybrid of cucumber with earliness and high yielding ability. Keeping in view these facts, a gynoecious cucumber hybrid Pusa Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 was developed by Division of Vegetable Science IARI, New Delhi and recommended by AICRP (vegetable crops) for cultivation in Zone I [Humid Western Himalayan Region i.e. Jammu & Kashmir (J&K), Himachal Pradesh and Uttarakhand] during spring- summer and kharif season and subsequently notified by central sub-committee on crop standards, notification and release of varieties of horticultural crops during the year 2021. Research P USA Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 (DGCH-18) is a gynoecy based hybrid which becomes ready for first harvesting in 40-45 days after sowing during spring- summer and kharif season. Fruits are attractive green in colour with mild whitish green stripes originating from the blossom end and brownish green blotchy patches present near the stem end; 18- 20 cm long having soft skin, crispy and tender flesh with average fruit weight 200 g. Average yield in AICRP (VC) trials at six Centres over 3 years is 24.52 t/ha, which is 31.44% higher than National check PCUCH-3. Performance of Pusa Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 Pusa Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 (DGCH-18) has been tested in yield trial at several centers throughout India in AICRP (vegetable crops) trials from 2016-17 to 2018-19 along with check PCUCH-3. The results indicated that Pusa Gynoecious Cucumber Hybrid-18 yielded 24.52 t/ha which was 31.44% higher than check PCUCH-3 (Table 1). At multilocation testing DGCH-18 has fruit length of 18.