 Clusters for growing a particular flower crop can be promoted in such areas to share post-harvest infrastructure and other common facilities. Delineation of such production zones in an area would lead to pooling of resources and sharing of facilities for post-harvest management, transportation and marketing. Reducing production costs The climatic conditions in the Northeastern states are favourable for growing various high-value flower crops, including orchids, which would reduce the energy costs of running greenhouses. Flowers produced in this region would be more competitive in national and international markets. However, to reduce costs and produce high quality flowers and potted plants, technological interventions are required in terms of production practises such as production system, planting containers, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest and disease management and production season control are needed to reduce the cost and produce quality flowers and pot plants. Optimised post-harvest practises such as grading, shelf-life extension treatments, packaging, fumigation, long distance shipping protocols and value addition would help to achieve the best prices in the market. Ensuring availability of quality planting materials Varieties are one of the most critical inputs in the cultivation of flower crops. ICAR and Agricultural Universities have developed a large number of varieties of different flower crops like rose, tuberose, chrysanthemum, Noble Orchid November–December 2023 83 gladiolus, etc., which are available for cultivation. But the indigenous improved varieties in crops like anthuriums, carnations and orchids are not available for cultivation. Therefore, flower growers have to depend on imported varieties. Skilling human resource for flower industry Commercial cultivation of flower crops, including orchids, has recently been introduced in the Northeastern states. Various stakeholders, namely flower growers, field workers, supervisors, horticulture officials, supervisors and plant propagators are not familiar with the cultivation and management practises. These functionaries can be trained in knowledge centres like ICAR-NRC for Orchids, Sikkim, for cultivation of temperate and sub-tropical orchids, College of Horticulture, KAU, Thrissur, Kerala for tropical orchids and for other flower crops at ICAR-DFR, Pune, Maharashtra and ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru. Ensuring the product quality Buyers and consumers demand a constant supply of high-quality products. Corresponding external and internal quality characteristics must be met, which can vary depending on the target market. Colour, texture, size, freshness, fragrance and shelf-life are the most important quality characteristics that are important for successful marketing of flowering plants. Use of certified quality planting material Quality seed and planting material is an essential input in floriculture for obtaining the desired quality of the produce.