 He named it as Bread Labour and told, “God has given everyone the capacity to work and earn more than his daily bread and whatsoever is ready to use that capacity is sure to find work”. He claimed that intellectual labour is for one’s own fulfilment and one should not claim for its payment. Theory of Bread Labour ensured employment opportunity for all and guaranteed basic needs such as food, clothing and shelter. Physical labour would also keep people healthy and free of diseases. The dignity of labour would thus shape the economic basis of the modern nation (Gandhi 1946) 3.5. Gram Swaraj: The word Swaraj was used by Gandhiji with a distinct meaning and significance i.e., Self-rule and Self-restraint. He defined it in terms of individual and nation. Swaraj of citizens means the total aggregation of the individual’s self-rule where as National Swaraj is the total sum of all efforts to create an ideal state on the basis of moral force. The citizens of such a state are aware of their moral power in its collectivity. Gandhiji was trying to identify the meaning of the Swaraj state with the Ramraj, the ideal state of Shri Rama. The Ramraj (the Enlightened Anarchy) of Gandhiji’s vision was to be accomplished in three steps: Swaraj- Independence from British rule; Grama Swaraj-establishing a non-violent state by creating Village Republics; Ram Rajya-Kingdom of God on earth which would be devoid of violence and a completely democratic stateless society (Pandey 1989). Thus, Swaraj, Grama Swaraj and Ramraj are three critical elements in the pursuit of implementing the ideal social 186 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR order. However, it is hard to attain the Ram Rajya, Gandhiji stated that in its absence, the only feasible option was Grama Swaraj. 3.6. Decentralization: Gandhiji assumed that individual well-being with intellectual and emotional development must be the primary focus of society, and it should be accomplished by the decentralization of economic and political forces. He wanted the panchayat to execute the legislative, executive and judicial activities required for the effective functioning of the rural economy. Numerous developmental programmes, such as education, sanitation and hygiene, would also be performed by the village panchayat (Gandhi and Iyer 1986). Mahatma Gandhi’s visits around the nation strengthened his belief that India might prosper if the villages were managed by the Village of Panchayats, based on the concept of “simple living and high thinking.” It is in accordance with Gandhiji ‘s vision, that India has now enacted the Panchayati Raj Institutions by approving the 73rd (Constitution) Amendment Act, 1992. 3.7. Concepts of Austerity and Abstinence: Mahatma Gandhi said “there is enough for everyone’s need and but not for everyone’s greed” (Naryan 1970).