 A moderate to large evergreen tree, up to 24m in height, 7m in girth but generally small, cultivated or found naturalized almost through out the plain and sub-Himalayan tracts of India. Flowers are small, yellowish with pink strips. 241 Taverniera cuneifolia East Indian money wort M-Jetimad Root is sweet and is used as a substitute for liquorice. The leaves are used in the form of poultice for sloughing wounds, The plant is browsed by camels, sheep, goat and other cattles. Copiously branched under shrub, 30-60 cm high, occurring in the plains of Punjab, Gujarat and the Deccan. Flowers are red, axilllary racemes. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 381 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 243 Tectona grandis Teak H-Sagwan B-Segun M-Sagwan G-Saga Tel-Adaviteeku T-Tekku Kan-Jadi Mal-Tekka O-Singura Wood contains petroleum ether, alcohol, benzene, pentosans (19.43%), lignin (30.05%), holocellulose (61.1%), hemi- cellulose (11.3%) and silica. Most of the substituted anthraquinone and some other substances like lapachol, desoxy-lapachol and or cresyl-methyl-ether are responsible for the termite resistant property. Some constituents like lapachol have sensitizing effect and may cause allergic eczema or severe itching. Powder of teak wood is useful in allaying skin inflammation caused by melanorrhoea usitatissi. The leaves contain about 6% tannin. The kernel yields 44.4% fatty oil. Flowers are considered in billiousnes, bronchitis and urinary discharge. The bark contains tannin, petroleum ether, alcohol and benzene. The bark is regarded as an astringent and consider useful in bronchitis. Tree with rounded crown, variable in size according to its habitat, indigenous to the peninsular India and Madhya Pradesh, is extending to the parts of Rajasthan, southern Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. In favorable conditions the tree attains large size with tall clean and cylindrical bole. In dry situation and seasons, the leaves fall from November– January. 244 Terminalia arjuna - H-Arjuna B-Arjhan M-Sadaru G-Sadado Tel-Yerramaddi T-Vellamatta Kan-Maddi O-Arjuno P-Arjan Bark has been employed locally for many years for tanning. The dry bark from stem contains 20-24% tannin. The bark contains beta stosterol, ellagic acid and trihydroxy triterpene mono carboxylic acid. The leaves are fed to tassar silkworm. The bark is acreed and credited with styptic, tonic, febrifugal and antidysenteric properties. A decoction of the bark is used as a wash in a ulcer. The fruit is tonic and deobstruent. The juice of the fresh leaves is used in earache. Large evergreen tree, with a spreading crown and drooping branches, common in most parts of India and also planted in many parts for shade and ornament. The tree is common through out the greater parts of the Indian Peninsula along rivers, streams, ravines and dry water courses.