com Indian Farming 8 October 2023 Village Dairy Cooperative Society District Cooperative Milk Union/ Dairy Processing Plants State Cooperative Milk Marketing Federation Markets Members of Dairy Cooperatives Supply of inputs (feed, seed, etc.) and veterinary services Supply of inputs (feed, seed, etc.) and veterinary services Sales revenue Sales revenue Milk Milk Milk & dairy products Milk & dairy Base price, Additional price, dividends Base price, Additional price, dividends Dairy cooperatives movement in India: Characteristics, status and challenges D C Meena1*, Vikas Kumar1, Subhash Chand1 and R B Meena2 1ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi 110 012 2ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation, RC, Agra, Uttar Pradesh 282 006 The dairy sector is an essential sub-sector of Indian agriculture, contributing ~28% of the total agriculture Gross Value Added (GVA). Dairy cooperatives are the most effective organization in the dairy sector to provide food, nutritional, and livelihood security in India. Despite the significant positive impact on the socio-economic status of rural milk producers and growth in dairy cooperatives over four decades, DCs account only for 20% of the total marketed milk. Although the government has implemented several schemes, the expected results are not yet realized. There is a need for a sustainable development approach to overcome the challenges and strengthen the entire dairy sector in the country. Additionally, the information on factors influencing consumers' purchase intention, consumption, and satisfaction with dairy products may provide a promising path for entrepreneurs to deliver high-value-added dairy products and gain a premium price. Keywords: Challenges, Cooperative, Dairy sector, Institutions, Product attributes A COOPERATIVE society is defined as an autonomous association of persons joined voluntarily to meet their everyday economic, social, and cultural needs, and desires through a cooperatively owned and controlled organization democratically. According to conventional social and economic theories, cooperatives add the values manifold by realizing the scale of economies, providing access to markets, increasing market efficiency by reducing transaction costs, and managing associated risks. Dairying is an integral part of the Indian farmer’s day-to-day life, accounting for 28.36% of total agricultural and allied sector Gross Value Added (GVA) and 5.21% of total GVA. Small and marginal farmers produce a substantial percentage of milk production in most developing countries. However, their efficiency still needs to improve as DCs need to be connected to technologies, services, and information. Indian Farming 73 (10): 08-10; October 2023 Fig. 1. Three-tier dairy cooperative model in India.