 Foxtail millet contains 11% and 4% of protein and fat, respectively. A range of anti-oxidants including carotenoids, phenols, and phenolic acids found in significant level in the grains (Saleh et al. 2013; Zhang and Liu 2015). The yellow grains are used for medicinal purposes such as to control bleeding and skin softening. Most of the digestive issues including, poor digestion and food movement in the stomach are improved by the regular consumption of the foxtail millet. The white grain is used for treating cholera and green seeds are used for kidney-related issues and improving virility. The good amount of protein (12.3%) and minerals (3.3%) in the grain are considered as a good source of food for over-all healthiness (Vithal and Machewad 2006). Like other millets, kodo millet is meant for its own nutritional superiority. The fibre content is 14.3% followed by protein (11.0%) and fat (4.2%). The high fibre content of the grain is good for better gut heath. Moreover, it is gluten-free hence an alternative source of food for the gluten sensitive people. The lecithin present in the grain is very important for the nervous system. Kodo millet contains most of the B-complex vitamins, including B3, B6 and folic acid. As for the mineral profile is concerned, the grain is a good source of calcium, potassium, zinc 123 and magnesium. It is said that the positive role of kodo millet in curing some health issues faced by the post-menopausal women. Barnyard millet, a millet of Indian origin has an excellent source for quality carbohydrate and fibre. It helps in preventing diabetics (Ugare et al. 2011) and other gut-related health issues. The retrogradation nature of amylose presence in the grain is another reason for balancing the blood glucose level and helps in managing diabetics. Barnyard millet has both unsaturated fatty acids (linoleic and oleic acids) and saturated fatty acid (palmitic acid). The grain contains several anti- oxidants that help in fighting several diseases (Kofuji et al. 2012; Sharma et al. 2016). Proso millet has 11.6% protein content of the total dry matter, which is on par with wheat protein except that it has no gluten. It has a good distribution of carbohydrate, fatty acid profiles, minerals and vitamins. The important minerals are copper and magnesium and essential amino acids are methionine, leucine and isoleucine (Kalinova and Moudry 2006). B6 and folic acids are present in significant level in the grain. Similar to other millets, regular eating of proso millet showed better glycemic responses and good for diabetics (Park et al. 2008). Overall, millets are the wholesome food in terms of good carbohydrates, proteins, fats, minerals and vitamins. Millets also have a substantial amount of several forms of anti-oxidants to prevent and protect the body from variety of diseases. The anti-oxidants are much needed for the current stress-related lifestyle.