 yy Give enterotoxaemia vaccination 2 mls/cto pregnant Ewe/Doe before one month of expected date of lambing/kidding. yy Grazing of small ruminants should be limited. Therefore, arrangements for stall feeding along with supply of complete feed block and mineral mixture should be ensured. yy Farmers are advice to prepare hay and silage as scarcity fodder for their animals. yy Inter-district migration of herdsman/shepherd should be avoided. Poultry yy During this hot summer provide good ventilation, maintain proper shed temperature and make availability of ample cold drinking water to maintain body temperature of birds. yy Use anti-stress vitamins such as vimeral to increase immunity and to reduce climate stress. yy Local poultry farmers are advised to feed concentrate mix with local available grain in ratio of 2:1 in the diet to maintain the health and growth of poultry birds during the scarcity of quality feed. yy The moisture and quality of the litter materials in poultry shed need to be maintain to prevent coccidiosis infestation. 178 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy All the equipment in the shed should be disinfected using hot water and with any other proper disinfectant. yy Disinfect the premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsider to the poultry houses and premises. yy Ensure vaccination of chick and birds against Ranikhet disease if not done earlier. yy Deworm the birds using piperazine before onset of monsoon season. 179 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS CHHATTISGARH Rice (Biasi/Puddled/Transplanted) High yielding and improved varieties of rice in different situations of Chhattisgarh: Rainfed uplands: Samleshwari, Indira Barani Dhan-1, Sahbhagi Dhan, Danteshwari, Chhattisgarh Zinc rice-1 and Bastar dhan-1. Rainfed midlands: Indira arobic dhan-1, IGKV R-1(Indira Rajeshwari), Indira sugandhit Dhan-1, I.R.64, Chandrahasini, Indira Aerobic-1, Karma Masuri, Durgeshwari, Maheshwari, I.R.36 , MTU- 1010, C.R.Dhan-201, C.R.Dhan-309, Trambey C.G. Dubraj Mutent-1, Chandra (MTU-1153), Chhattisgarh Madhuraj-55. Rainfed lowlands: Chhattisgarh Deobhog, Karma Masuri, Indira Rajeshwari, Durgeshwari, Maheshwari, N.D.R.8002, Jaldubi, Swarna Sub-1, Sanba Masuri, Sampada, Mahamaya, Swarna, Badshah bhog Sel.- 1, Tarun bhog Sel-1, Dubraj Sel.-1, Vishnu bhog Sel.-1, Chhattisgarh Sugandhit Bhog, Jaldubi. Irrigated conditions: Samleshwari, C.G.Z.R.-1, Chandrahasini, Karma Masuri, Indira Rajeshwari, Durgeshwari, Maheshwari, Indira Aerobic-1, Indira Sugandhit Dhan-1, NDR-8002, Jaldubi, Swarna Sub-1, Samba Masuri, PKV HMT, Badshah Bhog Sel-1, Tarun bhog Sel-1, Dubraj Sel.-1, Vishnu bhog Sel.-1, Chhattisgarh Madhuraj-55, Chhattisgarh Sugandhit Bhog, Z inco rice M.S., Trombey C.G. Dubraj Mutent-1, Ratnagiri-8, Improved Samba Masuri.