 Shelf pollination is difficult as the flowers show pin type heterostyly where thick-erect long style protrudes out of the floral parts and anther bearing filaments are short. Best pollination time is from dawn to dusk which is performed manually by touching the separated filaments on the receptive stigma base or by collecting the pollen grains on butter paper and applying those pollen grains on the stigma base with a fine brush. Harvesting: Fruits mature in 1-1½ months after fruit set. Fruits are harvested when skin starts to turn green to red/rosy pink. Yield varies from 25-35 kg/pole and around 62.0-85 t/ha. Market price of fresh fruit is 200-300/kg. For further information, please contact: 1Principal Scientist (Horticulture), ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Tripura Centre, Lembucherra 79210, Tripura E-mail: biswajitsom_dr@yahoo.co.in, Biswajit.Das@icar.gov.in Fruit-bearing: In the first year, one or two fruits may be set on each plant, but it is advisable to allow the plant to grow instead of fruiting in the 1st and 2nd year. Full bearing starts from 3rd year. Under better management, Cultivation of Dragon Fruit in Dryland Area Dragon fruit is a tropical fruit that has become increasingly popular in recent years. Though people primarily enjoy it for its unique look and taste, evidence suggests its health benefits as well. Dragon fruit is the fruit of a variety of cactus species. It has a unique appearance, sweet taste and crunchy texture. The dragon fruit contains multiple antioxidants, that are beneficial for good health. Dragon fruit also contains many vitamins and minerals, that are important for a healthy body. Shri Pavankumar Basappa Rangatti, 21 years of age, is a young graduate hailing from Ratnapur village, Tikota Taluk, Vijayapur district of Karnataka. Being the only son, he did not want to leave his parents alone. After his graduation, he was in dilemma regarding profession to be taken up. Browsing through the newspapers, he read about the trainings being conducted by Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Vijayapura-I on organic farming, especially meant for individuals aged below 35 years; and he attended one such training. Subsequently, he adopted dragon fruit cultivation in his dry land area, under the technical guidance of KVK, Vijayapura-I. Earlier his father was growing grape, which was a costly affair. Looking into the expenses on cultivation of grapes, his father too supported him in his new venture. He brought 4,000 saplings of both white and red varieties of dragon fruit from Maharashtra, and took the risk of planting them in his 2 acres of land. He harvested the fruits after one and half years. He sells the fruits at the rate of ` 150-180 per kg and sapling at the rate of ` 20 per sapling. In 18 months only, he earned ` 1.25 lakh by spending ` 3.00 lakh. Gradually, his profit increased to ` 3.80 lakh in second year, ` 6.00 lakh in third and ` 8.00 lakh in fourth year by selling the fruits.