 (2019) also reported that higher PBCK values may be attributed to higher organic matter content in soil as evident from the high correlation of PBCK with organic matter content and CEC of soils in K. Rani et al. Soil & Tillage Research 228 (2023) 105644 9 the above study. Increased PBCK will better replenish the solution K after plant uptake and hence would be beneficial for plant growth. As full CA based scenarios have higher proportion of planar K as well as PBCK than Sc1 and Sc2, it indicates that full CA based scenarios will not only be able to provide higher amount of immediately available K but also be able to replenish the K taken up by crops at a higher rate. Also, higher values of K potential in full CA based scenarios over Sc1, shows that planar K have lower preference to be adsorbed in non-specific sites and thus will promote more release of non-specifically held K to soil which in turn will promote better K availability. 4.2.5. Free energy of potassium exchange (-ΔG◦) Free energy of K exchange is related to the chemical equivalent of K in standard state replacing one chemical equivalent of calcium on clay followed by liberation of energy (Rupa et al., 2003). Highly negative values of ΔG◦associated with low CRe0K values indicate very strong bond between solid phase and K in solution. Hence, the soils with very high negative values as in case of Sc1 have poor release tendency of K. Decrease in negative values of ΔGº signifies that presence of K in solu­ tion and in planar sites can promote better K release than Sc1. As in all cases, ΔGº was less than 3500 cal mol−1, which is considered as critical limit for −ΔG◦for K availability (Woodruff (1955), it can be suggested that in all cases there is some K deficiency. Therefore, the plants may respond to K fertilizer application. However, the fertilizer response will be much more for Sc1 than other scenarios as − ΔG◦value was the least in case of Sc1. 5. Conclusions The quantity-intensity relationship of K has proved to be an impor­ tant tool for assessing potassium supplying ability of these soils in the given conditions. Q/I parameters are able to give a better picture of K availability in different scenarios as compared to 1N NH4OAC method of K determination. Conventional tillage practice (Sc1) showed the lowest non-specifically held K (quantity factor) as well as CRe 0K (intensity fac­ tor) and therefore, could not maintain higher K and requires immediate attention towards K fertilization. In case of Sc2, higher available K and CRe 0K levels can support immediate supply of K to crops but it may not be sustainable for long term as PBCK was very low in this case. Whereas, all full CA based practices showed that the availability of K under these scenarios was not only high in terms of immediate availability to the current crop (high CRe 0K) but also will be sustainable over a long period of time with better replenishment capacity (higher PBCK) than CT (Sc1) and partial CA (Sc2) scenarios.