 Hydraulics of fully and partially penetrating wells. Design, construction and development of irrigation wells. Water lifts, pumps and prime movers, well and pumps characteristics, performance evaluation and selection of pumps. Energy requirement in groundwater pumping. Design of centrifugal pumps. Groundwater pollution. Conjunctive use of surface and groundwater. 91 Unit 2: Open Channel Hydraulics Hydraulics of open channel flow, energy and momentum principles, specific energy, Hydraulic jump, classification and its use as energy dissipater. Design of different types of irrigation channels. Irrigation water measurement: using velocity area method, water meters, weirs, notches, flumes, orifices etc. Water conveyance and control. Conveyance losses and lining of irrigation channels. Irrigation water delivery and distribution. Unit 3: Soil, Plant, Water and Atmosphere Relationship Soil physical characteristics influencing irrigation. Soil moisture characteristics, field capacity, permanent wilting point, plant available water and extractable water. Soil irrigability classifications, factors affecting water storage profile. Determination of soil water content, computation of soil water depletion, soil water potential and its components, hydraulic head. Field water budget: water gains and water losses from soil, deep percolation beyond root zone, capillary rise. Evapotranspiration (ET) and irrigation requirement, critical stages of crop growth in relation to irrigation. Irrigation scheduling. Plant water relations, concept of plant water potential. Water movement through soil plant atmosphere system. Uptake and transport of water by roots. Management strategies to improve crop productivity under limited water supplies. Contingent crop plans and other strategies for aberrant weather conditions. Cropping patterns, alternate land use and crop diversification in rainfed regions. Unit 4: Watershed Hydrology Hydrologic cycle, precipitation, infiltration and surface runoff. Measurement and analysis of hydrologic data. Intensity duration frequency analysis. Hortonian and saturation overland flow theories, partial source area concept of surface runoff generation. Rainfall and run off relationships, stream gauging and runoff measurement. Different methods of surface runoff estimation, hydrographs, S-hydrograph, IUH, Synthetic hydrograph, unit hydrograph theory and its application. Concept of hydraulic flood routing: channel and reservoir routing. Unit 5: Soil and Water Conservation Soil erosion and types of erosion. Quantitative soil loss estimation, universal soil loss equation and its subsequent modifications. In-situ measurement of soil loss. Field practices in controlling erosion by water and wind. Soil and Water conservation structures and their design. Gully control: vegetative measures, temporary, semi-permanent and permanent structures for gully control and reclamation and their design. Design and construction of farm pond and reservoir. Seepage theory.