 With greater degree of globalization OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 53 expected of Indian agriculture in the future, good communication skills – both written and spoken, would be helpful for the Industry. The improved agriculture education system needs to incorporate courses and tools to enhance this soft skill amongst the younger generation. Enhancing leadership capabilities The greater professiona- lization of Indian agriculture with increasing role for the private sector would necessitate greater requirement of professionals to fill up the leadership positions in the coming years. It would be appropriate to strengthen the leadership capability of the future agriculture professionals. Such capabilities could be developed by not only with academic inputs in the subjects of leadership development like strategic thinking, team building, decision making etc., but also by actively encouraging co-curricular and extra-circular activities like sports, internships and other action learning methodologies. Indian agri-food processing Industry for the future will require domain experts with deeper and updated knowledge of agricultural science on the one hand and professionals with better leadership capability, digital knowledge, Innovation and entrepreneurial drive, on the other hand. The adequate supply of youngsters with these competences by our Agriculture education system will be the pivot to drive the pace of future growth of Indian agriculture benefitting all the stakeholders of Indian agriculture. The adequate supply of youngsters with these competences by our Agriculture education system will be the pivot to drive the pace of future growth of Indian agriculture benefitting all the stakeholders of Indian agriculture. 1Chairman, Mahyco Grow Mahyo Grow Pvt. Ltd., Ashok Centre, Jhandelwalan Extn. New Delhi 110055 Email: raju.barwale@mahyco.com 54 Fisheries, the sunrise sector of India has reached its due relevance by significantly contributing to the national economy, food and nutritional security, livelihood, and employment generation. isheries, the sunrise sector of India has reached its due relevance by significantly contributing to the national economy, food and nutritional security, livelihood, and employment generation. Realising the potential of the sector, a new ministry was formed in 2021 and a comprehensive scheme for development of the sector named Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana, a scheme to bring about Blue Revolution through sustainable and responsible development was introduced. The growth of the fisheries sector has been phenomenal, especially in recent years due to various technical advancements, government policies and initiatives in both capture and culture fisheries. India witnessed a booming production of marine products and became the leading producer and exporter Fisheries research and education in India Article G Sugumar F of seafood.