 PPR Ab Chek kit for the detection of PPR Virus nucleocapsid protein antibodies in the serum samples and PPR Ag Chek kit for the detection of PPR virus in Clinical specimens of sheep and goats; Recombinant nucleocapsid protein based indirect ELISA kit for detection of Anti SARSCoV-antibodies in canines (CAN-CoV-2 iELISA kit) and Multi recombinant proteins based ELISA Kit for diagnosis of Trypanosoma evansi infection in Overview icar annual report 2022-23 7 animals; TaqMan-probe-based realtime RT-PCR assays (RT-qPCR) for pan-serotype detection of FMDV; Recombinase polymerase assay for detection of African swine fever virus in pigs; Multiplex PCR to differentiate Mycobacterium tuberculosis complex species; Rapid colorimetric assay for detection of the extended spectrum β-lactamase producing bacteria; Lateral flow assays (LFAs) for detection of CD virus antigen and antibody were developed. Among the vaccines, Ancovax for SARS-CoV2 infection; LSD vaccine named Lumpi-ProVacInd against LSD; Inactivated Low Pathogenic Avian Influenza (H9N2) vaccine for Chickens; Thermostable serotype O vaccine for FMD were developed. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) with or without egg shell membrane, bioactive collagen gel, collagen powder, platelet rich plasma, and MSC laden Nano-scaffolds of hydroxyapatite and multiwalled carbon nanotubes were evaluated for skin wound, bone and nerve healing in animal models, and showed promising results. p38 mitogen activated protein kinase inhibition suppresses buffalopox virus (BPXV) protein synthesis by targeting p38-MNK1-eIF4E signaling pathway. The P60-SB239063 virus exhibited significant resistance to SB239063 as compared to the P60-Control virus. This is a rare evidence, wherein a virus was shown to bypass the dependency on a critical cellular factor under selective pressure of a drug. An online database management system named MHC Database was created (http://www.mhcdbms.in/) to allow easy access and use of immune polymorphism data. This system also allows user to upload as well as download the indigenous Ovar MHC allelic database for sheep breeds in FASTA format. CRISPR/CAS9 mediated knock-in of human Erythropoietin gene in the goat fibroblast cells was done and the transgenic goat fetal fibroblast cells expressed hEPO gene fused with green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene. ICAR-NRCE, Hisar is actively involved in glanders surveillance, providing diagnostic support, capacity building of state diagnostic laboratories/ RDDLs. For rapid and efficient execution of surveillance activities, Hcp1 ELISA kit developed by NRCE is being used for glanders diagnosis. A total of 1,737 equine serum samples from 8 states were tested for equine infectious anemia (EIA), equine influenza (EI), Equine Herpes Virus-1 (EHV-1), Japanese Encephalitis/West Nile Virus (JEV/WNV), Trypanosoma evansi (Trypanosomiases), piroplasmosis Salmonella, Abortus equi and brucellosis. Highest sero-prevalence was observed for equine piroplasmosis (38.