 It was estimated that about 1800 participants were benefitted out of CAFT programmes during this period. The instrument was sent to the CAFT Directors requesting them to forward the same to the participants of CAFT programmes conducted during the specified period. The period of data collection was June-August, 2012. Response from more than 270 participants was received during this period that constituted around 15% of the beneficiaries of CAFT programmes. The instrument enclosed in annexure-II was administered among the CAFT Directors to get their opinion towards handholding support extended by them in teaching, research and extension activities of the participants of the CAFT programmes on the themes related to CAFT centres. Out of the 31 CAFT Directors, more than two-third (68%) responded promptly to this instrument with relevant data. The third instrument given in annexure-III was administered among the participants of NARS organizations from which maximum number of beneficiaries participated in CAFT programmes. Out of four such organizations selected, fairly good response was received from the participants of Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), Jammu and such data was utilized for analysis and further interpretation. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 15 To have an observational experience about the CAFT programmes and to assess the effectiveness of CAFT programmes as concurrent evaluation methodology, it was decided to visit a few on-going CAFT programmes during August 2012. In that way, two CAFT programmes conducted by CAFT Centres namely CAFT on Horticulture (Fruits) at MPKV, Rahuri and CAFT on Veterinary Clinical Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence at MVC, TNVASU, Chennai were observed by the project team members. The instrument at annexure-IV was administered among the participants (34) of these two programmes to capture their opinion about training effectiveness in terms of pedagogy and training environment. To assess the performance of CAFT participants by their peer group members and the deputing authorities, two different instruments (Annexure V and VI) were designed and circulated among the peer group and deputing authorities of participants of CAFT programmes who responded for the study from same organizations. The data were collected through mail, e-mail and direct distribution of questionnaire and getting the response back. A total of 130 responses were received in this regard from various NARS organizations like PAU, Ludhiana, GADVASU, Ludhiana, ANGRAU, Hyderabad, IASRI, New Delhi, Dr.YSPUH&F, Solan and CSKHPKV, Palampur. The responses were analyzed and the results are presented in this chapter.