 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 221 For Broccoli: Palam Samruddhi and Pusa KTS-1 can be taken with a planting distance of 60cm between Row and 45 cm between two plants with a fertilizer dose of 30:40:40 NPK/Ac. Capcium varieties- Arka Gorav, Arka Mohini, Arka Atulya, Yellow Wonder, California Wonder Bharat can be taken with a seed rate of 100gm/ac with a fertilizer dose of 45:30:30 kg of NPK /Ac. French Bean can be taken in winter. Improved varieties for Bush type: Arka Komal, Contender, Pusa Parbati, Pant Anupama. Arka Arjun, Arka Anoop, Arka Suvidha. Improved varieties for Pole type: Kentuky Wonder, Pusa Himlata, Arka Sukomal, Arka Sarath With a fertilizer dose of 8:20:20 NPK and can be planted after September 15. Fisheries Application of CIFAX @ 1000ml per ha/m water spread area to control Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome disease in Fish. Application of supplementary feed @ 2% of total fish mass body weight at 2 pm in fish culture pond. Maintaining pond water depth up to 5 feet by adding water from nearby source. False netting in culture pond to access the health and growth of fishes. Aeration of pond water in case of oxygen depletion (Fishes coming to surface at early morning) Use of pre and probiotics for better feed metabolism of fishes. Use of Silver carp advanced fingerling @ 300-400nos per ha/m of water spread area for control of surface algae at culture pond. Lesser use of organic and inorganic fertilizer in fishpond. Use of KMnO4 @500g per ha/m in culture pond with dissolving ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 222 @10g/10lit of pond water and its application in culture pond every 3month as prophylactic measures. Use of water heater in the ornamental fish aquarium/tank. Less feeding to fishes at stunted fingerling production tank. Use of fishpond dyke for seasonal vegetable production. Poultry Cleaning and spreading of bleaching powder at every alternate day is highly essential for a poultry unit. If any symptom like drowsiness, cough and distorted feet appears in the poultry birds then immediately contact the nearest veterinarian. Clean and fresh water should be provided at least 3 times a day. In case of backyard poultry, birds should be allowed to move in open yard in the daytime. Insulate the poultry house against the cold wind by using gunny bag and at the same time take care of ventilation to avoid ammonia build up. During brooding in winter, brooder temperature should be maintained at 35oC in first week, there after decrease by 3oC of the previous week. Brooding to be done for 4 weeks and heat source provided till environment temperature is equal to brooder house temperature requirement as specified. Feed enough mineral and calcium to laying birds @ 3.25% of feed intake. Water should be given at ambient temperature at 2 times feed intake. Feed to water ratio should be maintained at 1:5 as against1:2 during winter. Vaccinate birds against RD, Fowl pox and IB to prevent viral diseases.