 Related Work on the Precision Irrigation Water-Saving Systems This section summarizes the existing literature work published on PISs/SISs. Moreover, researchers’ interest in exploring the various SIS approaches is growing, intending to decrease water use without disturbing crop growth and environmental footprints. The technological advancements drive SISs, and they can hold great promise for efficiently optimizing water usage, crop productivity, and ecological footprints [79,80]. Previously, several studies have been published using several aspects of SISs/PISs. For example, in 2024, Hassan et al. [81] said that accurately determining the location and position of sensor nodes is crucial in intelligent irrigation. Thus, they presented a new localization tool for localizing unidentified sensor nodes. The process was based on the Levenberg–Marquardt optimization algorithm. This study mentioned that the suggested method attained 19% and 58% perfection in assessment accuracy compared to the other two methods. Another work by Benameur et al. [82] presented a low-cost, full-featured fog-IoT/AI SIS. The proposed scheme was integrated with anomaly detection using an autoencoder. The results demonstrated higher performance than the GANs method. However, the accuracy rates were 90% (soil moisture), 95% (air temperature), and 97% (humidity). Al Mashhadany et al. [83] used the IoT-coupled sensors method to remotely examine the variation in agro-metrological parameters by assessing their daily and long-term trend changes. They used artificial intelligence (AI) tools to regulate IS, crop pests, disease detection, and management. The proposed system significantly optimized water use efficiency by monitoring the plant status in real-time and regulating correct irrigation intervals. Alce et al. [84] created an SIS for rice irrigation scheduling using a low-cost WAN technology (LoRa module). This study reported that adopting an SIS for rice crops can significantly reduce water consumption by providing real-time information to the local farmer using an intelligent message service. Morchid et al. [85] presented a smart irrigation system using cloud computing, embedded systems, and IoT tools to monitor and control water consumption. This study demonstrated a striking 70% reduction in water consumption for irrigation when utilizing the proposed SIS. The farmers can easily access comprehensive farm data anywhere in the world through the ThingSpeak cloud and the ThingView platforms. Manocha et al. [86] designed an IoT-digital twin-inspired SIS. They concluded that the projected method could provide a promising solution for creating an SIS that can significantly increase crop growth and development, increase water use efficiency, and minimize misuse. Abbas et al. [87] developed an intelligent control and monitoring algorithm for various plants. They reported that the new algorithm showed a high accuracy and found a 5.46% average absolute relative deviation. Singh et al.