 K. G. Mandal iii. Email address: director.MGIFRI@icar.gov.in, Phone No.: 09438184806 2. Mandate and activities • Adaptive research for location-specific integrated farming system models (fish-based) for flooded, flood-prone and wetland ecology. • Centre for vocational and advanced training to promote fish-based integrated farming systems. Activities: • Delineation, situation analysis and mapping of flood-prone, flood-affected and waterlogged areas • Characterization and monitoring of soils and nutrient status of water congested ecologies • Design and development of IFS technology/ packages/ model for water congested ecosystems • Post-flood crop management, design and development of efficient water management technology • Capacity building of farmers and other stakeholders on different components of IFS 3. Salient achievements • Crop diversification and intensification in water surplus ecologies. • Developed post flood management plans. 126 ICAR Institutes Profile 126 ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute 1. Contact details i) Postal Address: ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute (Deemed University), Karnal-132001 (Haryana) ii) Name of the Director: Dr. M. S. Chauhan iii) Email address/phone: dir@ndri.res.in Phone No. : 0184-2252800 2. Mandate and activities • Research in the areas of dairy production, processing and marketing • Human resource development in dairy sector • Dissemination of innovative dairy technologies. 3. Salient Achievements • Developed two high yielding Crossbred milch cows, Karan Fries and Karan Swiss, and improved Deoni – a dual purpose breed. • Produced the world’s first in vitro fertilized buffalo calf, through Embryo Transfer Technology. • World’s first cloned buffalo calf was produced using economical Hand-guided cloning technique. • India’s first Ovum-Pick up – IVF cattle calf named ‘Holi’ was produced. • Salivary fern like patterns-based estrus identification method was developed for dairy farmers. • Livestock Methane inventory and Feed formulation softwares were developed. • Area specific mineral mixture was developed for dairy animals. • Hansa Test was developed in 1962 for detection of buffalo milk in cow milk. • Optimized technological Processes for Commercial Production of Traditional Dairy products including paneer, dahi, lassi, barfi, kalakand and chhana based sweets were developed. Animal Sciences 127 Animal Sciences 127 • Long-life and convenient ready-to-make mixes for gulab-jamun, rasogolla mix powder, instant kulfi-mix powder, rasmalai, basundi, kheer, payasam, paladapayasam have been developed • Technological packages for Milk-Millet Composite foods such as Bajra (Pearl millet) lassi, sorghum (Jowar) lassi, Barley based fermented milk beverage, and Iron fortified biscuits were developed. • Developed a rapid method for the detection of adulteration in milk of vegetable oils and fats and method was adapted by BIS.