 Standardization of fishing vessels and restrictions of their endurance and capacities would also be needed for reduction of fishing effort EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Compendium Salient Recommendations 8 and hence by catch of juveniles. Marine Protected Area (MPA) is an effective measure to prevent overfishing and protect ecosystem services. Juvenile mortality in shrimp fish trawl systems should be reduced by using specially designed devices for the purpose. Aquaculture Diversification of aquaculture practices with high value indigenous fish species and genetic improvement of cultured species. Popularization and dissemination of cage culture technology should be taken up in reservoirs as a means of intensive fish production. Prioritization of ecosystem based management model for reservoir and wetland fisheries development. Promotion of Integrated Multi-Tropic Aquaculture (IMTA) as a viable option for climate smart aquaculture and development of resilient stains. Quality & Trade Mobile fish product vending carts and matsya mart has to be popularized for supplying quality fish and fish products to the consumers. Creation of infrastructure for maintaining cold chain facilities from catch to consumption to meet the quality regulations laid by the national and international regulatory agencies. Establishment startups for high value products from fishes and utilization of fishery by-products for industrial/pharmaceutical applications will open new vistas for business opportunities in fisheries. 6. Agricultural Extension In this field, eleven meetings were sponsored by the Council and the themes covered were sustainability of small farmers, federating agri-students into business group for remunerative agriculture, grassroots innovations in farm production, value chain integration, women empowerment through agri-entrepreneurship for livelihood security. The salient recommendations are captured here. Strengthening the Extension: Capacity building of the farming community (farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension personnel) in modern technologies and market-linked value addition is required to augment farmers’ income. Scholarships for traditional farming, traditional medicines, healthcare and nutritional security in each SAU should be provided. ICT based market- led supply-chain extension system, through which extension system will reach to the clientele on an end to end basis must receive priority attention. Ecological agriculture in tune with sustainable development goals may be promoted among farmers as well as in school education. Leverage the National Digital Literacy Mission Programme for enhancing the livelihood skills of rural communities by channelizing the resources of various Centers of Excellence (COEs). Expand the scope and mandate of KVKs to focus on value chain, entrepreneurship, marketing and supply chain system. Emphasis may be given to short duration and drought resistant varieties to provide income support to the farmers round the year.