 This gap can be bridged through the replacement of seeds with improved varieties/ hybrids and input-efficient production and protection technologies. The ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research (ICAR-IIVR), Varanasi, has developed several high-yielding varieties/hybrids recognized by the AICRP (VC) and released by the CVRC, New Delhi, for various agro-climatic zones. A number of these varieties/hybrids are also recommended by the SVRC, Uttar Pradesh. Intensive research on clonally propagated cucurbits like pointed gourd, ivy gourd, and sweet/spine gourd has significantly impacted growers by providing improved varieties, extended fruiting duration, higher yields, and better market prices. Additionally, farmers generate revenue from selling quality seeds and saplings. Impact in terms of area covered by varieties/hybrids The total estimated area coverage for cucurbitaceous vegetable varieties developed by ICAR-IIVR, based on labelled and breeder seed sales during 2021-22, Indian Farming 74 (10): 39-40; October 2024 is shown in Table 1. During 2021-22, the coverage reached 32,638.25 ha across 20 varieties/hybrids in 10 cucurbitaceous vegetables. The estimated production increase, calculated with a 5% gain over local varieties, yielded an incremental gain of 28.99 thousand tonnes and an income gain of approximately `40.57 crores. Over the past decade, more than 1.5 lakh planting materials for pointed gourd have also been produced and disseminated to farmers. Impact on crop diversification and income generation Cucurbits play a significant role in promoting a healthy diet and food diversification due to their availability at affordable prices. Varieties and hybrids developed by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) have had a substantial impact in addressing unemployment and generating income through year-round cultivation in kitchen gardens, riverine areas, and under protected conditions. Primarily, small and marginal landholders grow these crops for personal use, and secondarily for local markets. Cultivation on trellises or bowers for high-quality produce has supported the potential for export markets. In the cucurbit category, pointed gourd is particularly profitable, with prices rarely dropping below `40/kg for fresh fruit. This crop experiences minimal price fluctuation compared to other vegetables, providing stable income and generating sustained interest among growers. Short-duration and high-value cucurbits (e.g., cucumber, muskmelon, summer squash, and bitter Indian Farming 40 October 2024 Table 1. Total estimated area coverage under varieties developed by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi Vegetable Variety Estimated area coverage (ha) during 2021-22 Incremental gain in production with IIVR varieties (‘000 t) Incremental gain in income with IIVR varieties (` Cr) Ash gourd Kashi Dhawal, Kashi Surabhi 1990.89 2.99 5.27 Bitter gourd Kashi Mayuri 405.32 0.24 0.66 Bottle gourd Kashi Ganga, Kashi Kirti, Kashi Kundal, Kashi Kiran 20969.21 17.11 22.