 • The quarterly progress reports were sent on-line to the Regional Implementation Office. The quarterly progress reports received from various institutes were reviewed and suggestions made to them for effective implementation. ICAR Headquarters regularly participated in TOLIC’s meeting. • The employees are being nominated regularly for Hindi type training in every session. At Headquarters, training in Unicode typing was also reported period imparted by the Hindi Anubhag. • During Hindi Pakhwara was organized between 14 and 29 September 2017 at ICAR Headquarters. On this occasion Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare sent a message that was conveyed to all ICAR institutes. The Director General of ICAR also issued an appeal to make progressive use of Hindi at every level. • During the reported period under the cash award scheme of Official Language Department, Cash Awards were given to 10 officials at ICAR ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 131 Headquarters for doing their maximum official work in Hindi. • Under the Rajarshri Tondon Rajbhasha Purskar Yojana, during 2015-16, following Institutes were awarded for doing their maximum work in Hindi. received from various sections was also done. The draft speeches of Union Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, State Ministers for Agriculture and other higher officers of ICAR were prepared in Hindi. FINANCE The Revised Estimates in respect of DARE/ICAR for 2016-17 was ` 6238.00 crore. An internal resource of ` 275.15 crore (including interest on loans and advances, income from Revolving Fund Schemes and interest on Short-term Deposits) was generated during 2016- 17. The total allocation Budget Estimates for 2017-18 is ` 6800.00 crore. TECHNICAL COORDINATION Doubling Farmers Income by 2022 In pursuance of the policy initiative taken by the Government of India towards doubling the farmer income by March 2022 a presentation was made by Prof. (Dr) Ramesh Chand, Member (NITI Aayog) on 14 February 2017 during the Annual Conference of the Vice Chancellors of the Agricultural Universities and the Directors of ICAR Institutes. As this is a very challenging task, it would involve coordinated effort from all the concerned departments and agencies with a mission-mode approach. Towards this objective, State- wise Coordination Committees (SCCs) for doubling farmers’ incomes have been constituted at the level of ICAR with the Vice Chancellor of one of the Agricultural Universities in the state as the Chairman and one of the Directors of ICAR Institute/ ATARI as the convener of the committee. All the other Vice Chancellors and the ICAR Directors of the concerned region, one nominee of DAC&FW, DAHDF, Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Ministry of Water Resources as well as the senior representatives of the concerned State Departments as the members of the committee.