, Banana, Sugar beet, Cattle, Buffalo, Goat, Fish, Microbes, etc.  Genomic and protein data resources: 10+; Onion, Mango, Legume, Cluster bean, Livestock, Fish, Halophile protein, etc.  Transcriptome Databases: 10+; Fish, Coconut, Wheat, Vigna, Pearl millet, Small cardamom, etc. 206 ICAR Institutes Profile 206  Software tools and web servers: 15+; protein structure comparisons, prediction of putative miRNA, Breed, Anti-microbial peptides in fish and animals, splice site, donor splice site, nitrogen fixation genes, variety identification, trait associated genes etc., gene set analysis with QTL, Codon usage analysis, prediction and classification of HSP, coding, non-coding region  Algorithms and tools: 10+; protein structure comparison, modeling, trait associated gene prediction, splice sites prediction, coding and non-coding RNAs etc. • Established ICAR Data Center and ICAR-DR (Disaster-Recovery) that holds certified IT Service Management System (ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011) and Unified Communication & Web hosting services with “icar.gov.in” domain. It also hosts ICAR Cloud Infrastructure and Services.  

  Editors H Pathak JP Mishra T Mohapatra Indian Council of Agricultural Research Department of Agricultural Research & Education New Delhi www.icar.org.in Indian Agriculture after Independence ii Printed: July 2022 Citation: Pathak H, Mishra JP and Mohapatra T (2022) Indian Agriculture after Independence. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 110 001, pp 426. All rights reserved: © 2022, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi This publication may be used/shared freely for non-commercial purposes, with proper attribution to the publisher. ISBN: 978-81-7164-256-4 Production: Punit Bhasin and Kul Bhushan Gupta Published by: Dr S.K. Malhotra, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 and designed & printed at M/s Dolphin Printo Graphics, 1E/18, Fourth Floor, Jhandewalan Extension, New Delhi 110 055. iii iv Prime Minister Shri Lal Bhahdur Shastri interacting with a farmer v FOREWORD Commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav’ is the moment of great pride, joy and honour. India is among the few fortunate democratic countries in the world, which is celebrating the Platinum Jubilee of its Independence. Agriculture is one amongst the few sectors that made progressive growth after independence and marched well with the need of the country. Success in agriculture since Independence has been the backbone of India’s success. The successful transformational narration of independent India, therefore, is incomplete without the narration of the agricultural transformation from ‘ship to mouth’ to ‘self-sufficiency and export’. The agricultural imperative and achievements of India has been appreciated globally.