 Source of this methane is due to lack of oxygen in flooded rice fields, leading to anaerobic fermentation of soil organic matter. This results in release of methane into atmosphere through rice plants roots, stems, diffusion and ebullition from buried soil. Wetland rice fields are estimated to emit 20–100 Tg/year of methane, accounting ~29% of all annual human-caused methane emission. AWD is an irrigation scheduling strategy for rice production, is a well-researched innovation to adapt agri-food system to climate change. It minimizes environmental impact, ensures resilient/sustainable food production system. AWD technique reduces water usage by up to 30% and GHG emissions by up to 50%, while still retaining production output. Process of alternating between drying and re-flooding rice field is what makes AWD possible. To successfully implement this method without sacrificing yield, monitoring depth of water in field using tools such as a “field water tube or pani pipe” is recommended. In AWD, rice fields are irrigated by alternating periods of drying. Using monitoring instruments such as field water tube or pani pipe, farmers can determine when to provide water to their fields. This approach has shown to decrease methane emissions by 48% compared to continuously flooding fields. By combining AWD with precision fertilizer tools, GHG emissions can be reduced. Furthermore, water- saving technology, i.e. drip and sprinkler irrigation can improve water usage efficiency. Duration of flooded and non-flooded interval is determined by various factors, i.e. soil type, weather conditions and crop growth stage. Key points of AWD To effectively implement AWD in rice fields, farmers can utilize a field water tube to monitor water level in soil. This tube which can be made of plastic or bamboo and should have a diameter of 10–15 cm, is perforated Indian Farming 12 March 2023 with multiple holes to allow for easy flow of water in and out. The tube is then hammered into the soil, with 15 cm protruding above surface, and the inside of tube is cleared of soil to make bottom visible. Water level inside tube should match water level outside of it after field has been irrigated. If water level does not match after a few hours, it is likely that holes are blocked and tube needs to be reinstalled. Field water tube should be placed in an easily accessible and representative area of field close to bund, to make monitoring the water depth simple and efficient. Irrigation should be done when the water level drops to around 15 cm beneath the soil surface, re-flooding the field to a depth of ~5 cm. During period starting a week before flowering to a week after it, the field should remain flooded, and water should be added to reach a depth of 5 cm as required. As grain filling and ripening stage begins, water level can then be reduced to ~15 cm below soil surface before re-flooding with irrigation water. AWD can begin a couple of weeks after transplanting rice seedlings.