 This diversity in horticultural crops holds the potential to greatly strengthen the economy and ecology of the region by opting for organic horticulture through the adoption of NPOP Guidelines-based farm production and wild collection either as commodity or value-added products. Fruit crops Northeast India is considered as the Centre of Origin of many citrus species. Khasi mandarin (Citrus reticulata) is cultivated extensively and sweet orange (Citrus sinensis) is cultivated commercially in the region. Moreover, the species cultivated generally viz., Citrus indica Tanaka (Indian wild orange), C. latipes (Swingle), C. ichangensis Swingle (Ichang Papeda), C. medica, Citrus assamensis, Citrus macroptera and C. hystrix are recorded in the sub-tropical forests of Northeast India and the foothills of the Eastern Himalayas. The highest genetic variability of Musa acuminata and M. balbisiana is documented in NE India. M. flaviflora is limited to Manipur and Meghalaya. ICAR-National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR) in 1986 collected some important landraces of banana (seeded Ladiarit and Ladison, Rigitchi and other elite types, Hatigola, Eboke, Ginde, Egitchi and Essing) from Meghalaya. Huge variation in Pyrus, Rubus, Ribes and Prunus has been observed in the region. Besides, a significant number of other tropical and sub-tropical fruits of the genera Garcinia, Artocarpus, Phyllanthus, Annona, Averrhoa, Persia, Aegle, Passiflora and Tamarindus, etc., profusely grow in the wild. One such indigenous fruit is Jackfruit, which grows abundantly in Tripura, Assam, Nagaland and Meghalaya with many cultivars and landraces. More than 300 wild edible plant species are reported from NE India and some are consumed by different ethnic groups of the region. Two Elaegnus species, namely, E. latifolia and E. pyriformis are reported frequently in the region. It is quite common in Sibsagar, Dikho valley, Naga Hills, Khasi and Jaintia hills. Soh-Shang (Elaeagnus latifolia) is among the significant potential fruit crops extensively spread in Northeast India. Docynia indica and D. hookeriana are regularly observed in the region. Pyrus pashia, a medium sized deciduous fruit tree and two types of tree tomato (Cyphopmandra betaceae) (dark red and yellow fruit type cultivars) are also reported. Vegetable and Spice crops Vegetables embracing solanaceous, cucurbitaceous, leguminous, leafy, cole, root, rhizomatous and bulbous crops comprise one of the major groups of cultivated plants in Northeast India. Around 16,000 germplasm accessions of diverse vegetables, tuber, spices and condiments crops were collected through numerous crop specific and multi-crop expeditions undertaken by ICAR-NBPGR alone or in collaboration with other institutes during 1986 to 1994-95. Northeast India shelters innumerable solanaceous plants. Nearly 35 species belonging to the family Solanaceae are reported from the region.