 Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia Vidyalaya, Nadia 1. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 1. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 1. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia 2. 'Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore Regional Centre, Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Bhubaneswar Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia Pingali dhanti for intercultural operation in tomato 21. 2132 Guddeli to uproot ginger Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad Farm Implements 20. 2039 Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE SI. Code No. No. Title Experimenting organization Fishery 22. 424 Use of banana pseudostem in fish pond to enhance productivity of fish West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata Veterinary science and animal husbandry Treatment of foot-and-mouth disease in cattle by using harida (Terminalia chebula] and behada {Terminalia bellirica) Evaluation of peach (Prunus persica) leaves with fresh milk in the treatment of FMD lesion/wounds 25. 1288 Use of babool (Acacia nilotica) and jamun (Syzygiune cumini) bark extract to cure foot-and-mouth disease in animals 26. 1588 Control of FMD in cattle with camphor 1. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 2. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 3. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 4. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 1. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 2. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 3. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 4. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 1. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 2. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 3. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 4. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 1. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 2. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 23. 416 24. 1279 Contents INTRODUCTION SI. Code No. No. Title Experimenting organization 27. 1595 Use of bantulsi (Ocimum gratessimum) leaf paste for treatment of khurha (FMD) in cattle and buffalo 3. B irsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 4. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 1. West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata 2. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 3. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 4. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 28. 1280 29. 1287 30.