 Design of spring loaded anti-clodding attachment for oscillating type digger was modified to have uniform pressing load on all types of ridges thereby preventing any clod formation. At a speed of 2-3 km/hr, it was found to have effective field with a capacity of 1.75 ha/day and tuber exposure as 85-90%, depending upon soil and field conditions. ● In vegetables, 29 open-pollinated varieties, 8 hybrids and 3 varieties have been identified for release VEGETABLE IMPROVEMENT Radish varieties, IIVR 1 (maturing in 30 days) and IIVR 2 (40-45 days duration) have been developed. In chilli, stable CMS lines have been developed for hybrid seed production. The gynoecious lines identified in bitter gourd are under testing for hybrid seed production. ● DNA fingerprints of 23 advanced hybrids and a TPS parent of potato have been prepared FERTILIZER APPLICATION Soil test based fertilizer models predicted the yields with fair accuracy at 20-23 tonnes/ha yield targets at Modipuram. Kufri Jyoti was more sensitive to nutrient stress. Nitrogen needs of early crops of Kufri Sutlej was higher than main crop at Modipuram. At Shimla, Kufri Giriraj responded to higher doses of fertilizers 180 kg N, 66 kg P and 120 kg K/ha than Kufri Jyoti. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 58 Evaluation of traditional potato storage methods like heaps and pits at Jalandhar, Modipuram and Patna revealed that the total storage losses were 14-16% in heaps and 8-13% in pits, after 90 days of storage. The temperature in heaps and pits was lower than the ambient by 11 and 13°C respectively. Potatoes stored in heaps and pits were highly suitable for processing. Kufri Chipsona 2 could be stored for 6 months at 10-12°C with CIPC treatment. Under controlled atmosphere storage conditions sprout number and weight increased at 5 and 10% CO2 (20+1°C and 90- 95% RH). Tuber treatment with combination of boric acid (3%) and rectified spirit (0.5%) resulted in significant reduction in disease incidence. Diphenylamine, Carvone, Mentha oil, Eucalyptus oil and Salicylaldehyde were tried for suppressing sprout growth during storage under room temperature and in ECPS. Significant sprout suppression was observed in all the cases. Rotting was minimum with diphenylamine and Salicylaldehyde but was considerable with others. At CPRS, Jalandhar, 17 edible processed products including 10 non-fried and 7 fried were prepared from potato on a small scale. Among the non-fried products, instant potato soup mix and potato custard have good shelf-life. These products, if produced on the industrial scale and properly advertised, can become very popular in the Indian markets. Potato biscuits and potato cake are 2 bakery items, which have commercial value and can attract the attention of customers, if properly popularized. Products, like potato jam, sweet pie, candies, potato pickle and potato lollipops can be easily made by housewives.