 The marketable quality of the fruit was drastically reduced by the accumulation of excreta or younger nymphs after ripening. The black citrus aphid, Toxoptera aurantii, which is highly polyphagous, is rapidly becoming a major threat to many vegetables, trees and ornamental crops. The adult is microscopic and only 2 mm long with four nymphal wingless stages and brownish. The infested leaves show yellowing and stunted, which affects the formation of fruits. Mites The incidence of mites has been increasing over the past decade in ornamental plants and horticultural fruits and vegetables. The NE region has seen alternate spells of dry, hot weather and rain; such weather conditions are known to favour the incidence of mites. One mite species increasingly observed in fruits and vegetables is red spider mite or two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae. Dense vegetation and dense canopy cover also favour their incidence and establishment. Fruit trees and vegetables are increasingly under attack from this pest. It is observed underneath the leaf and produces a good amount of webbing, which protects from insecticidal sprays. So, timely pruning is an excellent cultural practice to reduce and prevent mite infestation. The Litchi mite, Aceria litchii, is a common pest in all litchi-growing areas of NE India. Gall mites, A. tripuraensis are usually soft-bodied, having an elongated and worm- like body. They are reported from Tripura from Hibiscus macrophyllus, largeleaf rosemallow plants. The mites’ saliva produces a pouch or bead-like or finger-like, which are Cappaea taprobanensis and Tessaratoma javanica Tetranychus urticae bright colours and cause leaf bronzing. They made the plant produce cottony patches of velvety called erineum. Recently, phytoseiid mites such as Euseius tripuraensis sp. nov., Euseius tripurii sp. nov., Euseius spontaneum sp. nov., Phytoseius khowaiensis sp. nov., Phytoseius birbikrami sp. nov., Typhlodromus (Anthoseius) sonajhuriae sp. nov., and Phytoseius baramuracus sp. nov., were reported from the ornamental crops of Tripura. While, Amblyseius azaliae sp. nov., from Azalea plants, Okiseius jainticus sp. nov., from golden Himalayan raspberry, Okiseius unisetatus sp. nov., from litchi and Typhlodromus campana sp. nov., from raspberries were reported from Meghalaya, attacking sporadically throughout the crop growth stage. To kill mites, pesticides should be applied before gall formation begins when mites are active. For mites that can spend the winter on the host plant, it is suggested to use oil-based biopesticides such as neem oil before mites’ activity starts in the spring. Dimethoate, Diafenthiuron and Spiromesifen are very good acaricides for conventional farmers, and for organic farmers, wettable sulphur is a good option for managing mites.