 In urban areas and large dairy farms depending on the rearing condition and market demand AI services is advised. Purchase of animals for dairy farming is advised during early months of Rabi season because of suitability of climate, high availability of green fodder and possibility of getting Kisan Credit Card linked loans from financial institutions is more soon after Kharif season is over, and MSP are released. Animals need protection from cold winds especially during night. Open sheds need to be partially covered using gunny bags and adequate bedding materials. However, proper ventilation is important in cattle shed in winter especially in northern and southern parts of the state which tends to get suffocative. Provide green succulent forage together with leguminous hay or straw to the extent of animal can consume, so that all its maintenance requirements are met with through forage only. Extra concentrate at the rate of 1 kg for every 2 to 2.5 litres of milk should be provided. Salt and mineral supplements should be given to maintain the lactation. High milking breeds require calcium supplementation in order to prevent metabolic diseases like milk fever and ketosis. Water requirement decreases a little during winter. However, in very cold periods warm water must be provided. Watch individual animal for symptoms of mucous secretion from muzzle, sneezing, cough or difficulty in breathing, in the event of which immediate veterinary aid should be sought. Provide at least 60 - 90 days dry period between calving. If the dry period is not sufficient, the milk yield is subsequent lactation will be reduced. Extra concentrate mix of 1.25 to 1.75 kg should be provided for pregnant animal as pregnancy allowance. Wallowing of buffaloes in water is best avoided in winter months. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 344 Feed laxative about 3 - 5 days before and after calving (Wheat bran 3 kg + 0.5 gm of Groundnut cake + 100 gm of mineral mixture of salt). Cattle and buffaloes are not seasonal breeders, hence care and management of pregnant animals, during parturition, after parturition and care and handling of newborn calf is as recommended throughout the year. However, since research indicates more incidence of dystokia in winter, farmers are advised to be more vigilant and keep veterinary officer informed beforehand regarding the scheduled date of parturition. Small Ruminants (Goats) Farmers are advised to start preparing for breeding of sheep and goats in Rabi season by increasing ration for breedable male and female goats and keeping close observation for signs of heat. Being seasonal breeders, they tend to breed from September to November but may continue to February. This is more prominent in northern Chhattisgarh while in rest of the state, being truly tropical they breed throughout the year.