 Addition of biochar significantly reduced GHG emission and enhanced rate of composting. Proper management of compost also influences GHG emission. A study on the farmers’ fields indicated that by maintaining 60% moisture in farmyard manure, CH4 oxidation potential increased. The optimum CH4 oxidation rate measured from well-managed compost was 0.32μg/g/d. A B C D SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 13 prospects and for issuing advisories for suitable cropping patterns during rabi. About 170 districts were identified for growing wheat; among them, 62 were in Uttar Pradesh, 32 were in Madhya Pradesh, 16 each were in Punjab, Haryana and Rajasthan, and 13 were in Bihar and Gujarat, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir. Among them, canal irrigation was predominant in 45 districts of Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Wheat grown under well- irrigated system was located in 95 districts of Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Gujarat. During 2015, out of the 95 districts, 19 districts, where groundwater plays a dominant role in wheat cultivation, spread in Uttar Pradesh (14 districts), Bihar (3 districts), one district each in Gujarat and Maharashtra, showed extremely low to very low groundwater recharge during monsoon, which impacted wheat cultivation and production. And 27 districts (17 in Uttar Pradesh, 3 each in Rajasthan and Bihar, 2 in Madhya Pradesh and 1 each in Gujarat and Maharashtra) had low prospects for groundwater recharge. About 49 districts were with medium to normal recharge prospects, and indicated opportunities for better wheat cultivation under well-irrigated areas. During 2016, in 95 districts, 67 districts in Uttar Pradesh (25 districts), Bihar (4 districts), Madhya Pradesh (21), Rajasthan (11), Gujarat and Maharashtra (3 district each) had medium to normal ground-water recharge prospects. Fifteen in Uttar Pradesh (13), 1 district each in Bihar and Gujarat had low prospects for recharge. With better prospects of groundwater recharge in 67 districts, cropped area under wheat could increase substantially during 2016 rabi. In 11 districts, where groundwater recharge was extremely low to very low, rabi pulses could be promoted. Water-resource management in non-exploration zone of coastal Odisha: A comprehensive water- resource planning was developed for 3,900 hectares, located within 15 km from the coast-line in Mahakalapada block of Kendrapra district of Odisha. A Linear Programming Model with simplex algorithm was used for optimum land allocation for 3 major crops— paddy (497 ha), pulses (289 ha) and vegetables (238 ha) — for maximum production. To meet crop water demand, existing water- harvesting structures were standardized for average capacity up to 7,000 cu m with depth constraint within 2.5 to 2.8 m below ground surface. Ingression of saline water through creeks and drainage of excess water were checked through construction of sluice-gate in mouth of Sunity creek.