 The threshold yield at which complete system failure occurs and the system cannot meet its yield related objectives at all ranges of climate change and variability was found to be 5.75 t/ha (Fig. 22.b). 6. Conclusions The present study used a bottom-up approach to assess the vulner­ ability and risk of the agricultural system in the Lower Bhavani Irriga­ tion Project. The approach involved defining the performance objectives and metrics relevant to the system as well as analyzing the responses of the system to climate change and variability. These two stressors were expressed as aridity index and coefficient of variation of precipitation. Yield ratio and supply–demand ratio, both with threshold value of 1, were identified as the performance metrics. At lower AI, the yield is more sensitive to climate change whereas at high AI, both yield and supply–demand ratio is sensitive to both climate change and variability. The yield is found to be decreasing with increase in temperature, even though the supply does not match the demand. Potential yield im­ provements can be achieved by shifting the sowing dates, which reduces the temperature stress. A risk matrix was also developed by considering both the impacts and plausibility of future climate conditions, which was accompanied by increasing the stressors. Paddy yield in the irriga­ tion project is at low risk to climate change and variability, but the system is at high risk due to the mismatch of supply and demand. Hence, it is essential to develop adaptation strategies that include demand management options. The adaptation required in the event of a yield reduction can be postponed. Because the system performance is satis­ factory for yield, the study also suggests planning flexible adaptation actions. The plans must also be robust to account for the uncertainty in the projections of the various climate models used. Next steps of the CRIDA method, including a detailed analysis of adaptation options as to their robustness and financial feasibility, will be presented in a forth­ coming publication. In addition to climate change and variability, other drivers or stressors might also play a part in yield reduction or demand increase, such as, institutional aspects, market forces and so on. These will introduce new risks, implying that both climate and non-climate drivers must be considered to analyze the full range of risks that an agricultural system faces. The accuracy of the results would be improved if the distributed modeling was extended to cover parts of the irrigation command that are outside the Bhavani basin. Since the focus was on irrigated rice production, a single sector approach was adopted in this study. Results show that supply may not be matching the demand in the future. Hence other users which can impact irrigation supply such as domestic sector, industrial sector etc. may be included in further anal­ ysis. Further research can be carried out by considering a systems approach.