 The following formula was used for calculating the diameter Fibre diameter (µ) = Average diameter × 9.8 where, 9.8 was the least count for 100 × eye piece and 10 × objective. Bundle strength: The bundle strength of sisal fibre was measured by stelometer. Strength was calculated by using the following formula: ) mg ( wt Fibre 15 ) kg ( Load strength Bundle × = Chemical properties Cellulose Content: The cellulose evolution was reached by boiling the fibre for 5 minutes in a dilute solution of caustic soda, to make the solution represent 1% of Na 2O, and after removing of alkali by washing, subjecting the wet fibers to the action of the chlorine gas for 1 hour or even longer as required. After further washing it was treated with 3% sodium sulphite solution and after 2 or 3 minutes of boiling a small quantity of cold water was added, and in a corked flask the contents were submitted to increasing violent shaking until the fibre was washed, then it was dried and weighed. The immersion of the chlorinated fibre in the sodium sulphite solution was accompanied by a brilliant purple or crimson coloration, if the fibre was of the lingo-cellulose type,whereasa practicallycolourless solution was obtained from non-lignified fibre. Ash content: Theash content was determined bycomplete incineration of thefibre and weighing the residue. Moisture content: The moisture content was determined in the ordinary manner by drying at 100–110°C and the value were expressed as a percentage of the original weight. Solubility test Solubility in 1% Caustic Soda: One gram fibre was taken in a beaker having 100 ml 1% NaOH solution. The beaker was heated in water bath for  NATURAL YARNS AND DYES 1 hour with repeated stirring. The fibre was then filtered and washed with hot water, followed by 10% acetic acid and again with hot water. The washed samples were oven dried at 105°C till there was no decrease in weight. Solubility in cold water: Solubility in cold water was carried out by taking 2 g fibre in a beaker containing 300 ml distilled water and digested at a temperature of 23 ± 2°C with frequent stirring for 48 hours. Then fibres were filtered and washed with cold distilled water, followed by drying at 105°C for 2 hours and then weighed. The percentage of solubility was calculated by using the following formula: Solubility in 1% NaOH/cold water/hot water 100 W W W 1 2 1 × - = where, W 1 = initial weight of fibre; W 2 = weight of fibre after extraction with 1% NaOH or cold water or hot water Bleaching of fibre The main purpose of bleaching is to remove natural impurities in order to produce white material. The fibre was bleached by chloride and peroxide. Peroxide bleaching of fibre was carried out in an open bath (M:L = 1:50) for 50 minutes at 90°C with hydrogen peroxide (4 g/litre), trisodium phosphate (5 g/litre), sodium hydroxide (1 g/litre) and sodium silicate (10 g/litre) as bleaching bath assistants.