 • Developed efficient and cost effective design of experiments, analysis of experimental data 205 Agricultural Education 205 and their innovative applications for both Single factor and multi-factor experiments with respect to crop improvement programmes, breeding trials, food processing, post-harvest storage and value addition, crop sequence experiments, agroforestry experiments, designs for multi-stage trials, experiments in which it is difficult to change level of factors, artificially created environments, farmers participatory research trials for resource conservation technologies, experiments with mixtures, etc.Involved in the planning, designing and analysis of several AICRPs including Integrated Farming Systems Research (both on station and on farm trials), Soil Test Crop Response, Long Term Fertilizer Experiments, Vegetable Crops, Sorghum, Small Millets, Maize, etc. • Developed procedures for estimation of genetic parameters; construction of selection indices; studying G × E interactions; progeny testing and sire evaluations; detection of QTLs, classification of genotypes using molecular marker data, etc. The modification in the procedure of estimation of genetic parameters has been suggested for incorporating the effect of unbalanced-ness, presence of outliers, aberrant observations and non- normality of data sets. Procedures for studying genotype environment and QTL environments interactions. • Developed crop yield forecast model using weather variables. Developed weather based forewarning system for crop pests and diseases and yield loss assessment. • Statistical packagesand software: SPAR: Statistical Package for Agricultural Research data analysis, SPAD: Statistical Package for Augmented Designs, SPFE: Statistical Package for Factorial Experiments , SPBD: Statistical Package for Balanced Incomplete Block Designs, SPAB: Statistical Package for Animal Breeding, SSDA: Software for Survey Data Analysis • R-Packages: More than 30+ R-packages has been developed. • ASHOKA (Advancedsupercomputing Hub for OMICS Knowledge in Agriculture) for high performance computing in the field of agricultural bioinformatics and computational biology.Developed National Agricultural Biocomputing Portal fora single point of access to High Performance Computing (HPC) resources for allNARES users. • Web Resources for E-learning and e-advisory: Design Recourses Server; Sample Survey Resources Server; Service oriented computing through Indian NARS Statistical Computing Portal), Information Systems for AICRPs. • KRISHI portal (Agricultural Knowledge Resources and Information Systems Hub for Innovation) as a centralized research data repository for knowledge management (recognized in the form of Gold Icon Award from MEITY, Govt. of India) • Biological Databases/Servers/Systems/Prediction-Tools: More than 60+ biological databases/servers/systems/prediction tools have been developed.  Microsatellite Databases : 15+; rice, Wheat, Chickpea, Pigeon Pea, Vigna sp.