 Macroinvertebrates are a common indicator of water quality. They are subject to multiple ecosystem stressors, making it difficult to disentangle the influence of any one factor. In a recent mesocosm study mimicking instream ecosystems, manipulated nutrient and sediment dynamics (Davis et al., 2019) sediment was the most influential stressor, negatively impacting the total abundance of sensitive taxa and the Fig. 3 Conceptual framework of sediment transfer to water bodies. Adapted from Haygarth et al., (2005) The phosphorus transfer continuum: Linking source to impact with an interdisciplinary and multi-scaled approach. The Science of the Total Environment 344: 5–14. HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters 51 diversity of species. Sediment also interacted with P concentrations; however, this could occur in either a synergistic (exacerbating the impacts of P on ecological status) or an antagonistic (reducing the impacts) fashion. The nature of the interaction may be related to the P sorption capacity, such that additional sediment may in some cases bind soluble P from the water column. In other scenarios, sediment arriving from agricultural land may bring high quantities of P sorbed to the surface of particles, as a legacy of antecedent fertilizer application. In-stream P reserves may be released to the water column via desorption, precipitation and dilution, and advection and diffusion processes (Withers and Jarvie, 2008). The characteristics of the sediment itself influences release, with low Ca/P ratios facilitating P mobilization (Shore et al., 2016). The indeterminate timing of P mobilization from transported sediment adds uncertainty to interpretations of agricultural impacts on water quality. Emerging agricultural contaminants Within the agricultural setting, emerging contaminants include those that have only recently become a concern due to their increased use in line with intensification, and pollutants which have only recently been developed or identified. Emerging contaminants from agriculture include veterinary medicines, biocides, steroids, disinfectant residues, and metals (Snow et al., 2012). Veterinary medicines may be excreted by livestock to which they have been administered. Runoff contaminated by contact with these manures may consequently carry dilute concentrations (Sinclair et al., 2007). Antibiotics (Bailey et al., 2015; Wei et al., 2011), hormones (Boxall, 2012), and anti-coccidials (Mooney et al., 2020) have been observed in the surface- and groundwater bodies of agricultural catchments. While absolute loads and concentrations may be extremely small compared to nutrients, the impact on aquatic species may be significant even at trace exposures. Concentrated animal feeding operations have been correlated to high river concentrations of veterinary medicines, due to the reliance on treatments in these systems and the high density of animals (Burkholder et al., 2007).