 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report scale networks where devices form an interconnected web, enabling them to communicate with each other seamlessly. Bluetooth Mesh is designed to enhance the range, coverage, and flexibility of communication in comparison to traditional Bluetooth connections as data can hop between devices, creating a self-healing and self-optimizing infrastructure. The reliability of communication is strengthened through multiple paths, ensuring that if one device fails or is out of range, the network finds alternative routes. It is ideally suited for control, monitoring, and automation systems where hundreds, or thousands of devices need to communicate with one another. Scalability - Security Thousands of nodes Mandatory, per network multi-level security Reliability -.. . lI, Interoperability No single points we snsr ! = Complete, of failure st ft 7 full stack solution Performance Operations Hundreds of messages Use of standard per second smartphone (Source: https://www.bluetooth.com) Figure 14: Features of Bluetooth Mesh 2.3.4. Near Field Communication Near Field Communication (NFC) is a short-range wireless communication technology that enables seamless and secure data exchange between devices in close proximity, typically within a few centimeters. Operating at the radio frequency of 13.56 MHz, NFC facilitates communication between devices by simply bringing them close together or tapping them. NFC is commonly integrated into smartphones, credit cards, and various electronic devices, making it a convenient and versatile technology for a range of applications. The data rate is 106 Kbit/s to 424 Kbit/s. NFC is an offshoot of radio-frequency identification (RFID) with the exception that NFC is designed for use by devices within close proximity to each other. NFC requires 4 cm or less to initiate the connection with the tag. There are two variants of NFC. One is the Transceiver and the other is Tag. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 21 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 22 NFC operates in two modes: active and passive. Transceivers are active devices which need power to operate. An active NFC device, such as a smartphone, would not only be able to collect information from NFC tags, but it would also be able to exchange information with other compatible phones or devices and could even alter the information on the NFC tag if authorized to make such changes. Tags are the passive devices and work on the principle of inductive coupling when the tag is brought near a transceiver. NFC allows transferring small amount of data between transceiver and tags. There are three mode of data transfer in NFC- • Peer to Peer communication: Peer-to-peer mode enables two NFC-enabled devices to communicate with each other to exchange information and share files.