 There might be high abscisic acid in the peduncle as it was observed that once the shrinked fruit is touched, it falls down. Physiological disorders of bael There are many physiological disorders (caused by high or low temperature, poor moisture regime, unbalanced soil nutrients, inadequate or excess of certain soil minerals, extremes of soil pH, and poor drainage), viz. fruit cracking (occurs twice in a year; during December- January, when developing fruits are immature and during March-April when fruits are mature and in ripening phase, can be managed by maintaining optimum soil moisture regime through mulching and by creating wind breaks in the orchard); fruit drop (of course a natural phenomenon, but by using organic mulching and use of NAA (15-20 ppm/litre) at pea size stage during August-September, it can be reduced), sun scald (manifested by turning of normal green shell into dark brown which may be ascribed to intense solar radiation affecting the shell for long time during the day coupled with unavailability of sufficient soil moisture). The temperature of sun scalded portion is increased by 8-10°C as compare to unexposed portion. This malady reduces the market price of the fruit even though the pulp of fruit is not much affected below the scorched shell. Mulching and canopy management are useful to reduce down this disorder up to some extent. These disorders in bael are now creating havoc for quality fruit production in the current era of climate change. However, these are being managed by application of borax @ 0.1% twice, i.e. at full bloom and after fruit Table 1. Attributes of bael fruits in normal vs. shrinked fruits Attribute Shrinked fruits Normal fruits Appearance Just like punctured football Spherical/round in shape without any sunken surface Segments after cut Looks like star in shape with many grooves Completely round with any ups and down in circle Moisture percentage Very low Normal Fruit yield (kg per tree) 40-50 50-60 Fruit weight (g) 620 g (smaller) 1230 g TSS Higher (350B) Low (180B). Mucilage content Completely dry having zero stickiness in shrinks pulp High mucilage content Fruit maturity and development Completely brittle and dropped from tree without attaining final maturity Brittle free No. of seed per fruit 10-12 12-15 Pulp weight (g) 312 (90.41) 764 g (130.8) Peel weight (g) 241 (92.20) 386 (114.90) Fruit drop (%) 80-90 20-25 Shrink fruit vs. normal fruit on same tree (Bael cv. NB-5) Shape of shrinked fruits in bael cv. NB-5 May–June 2024 37 set or spray of NAA (20-30 ppm in subtropical region) besides maintenance of proper soil moisture regime near rhizosphere. One more physiological disorder that recently appeared on bael fruit is its ‘Shrinking’ at the full developmental stage. The shrinking of bael is more severe in the case of the NB-5 variety in the Lucknow region, which is severely affecting the crop yield and appearance of the tree.