 At the same time, photovoltaic (PV) panels provide elec- tricity, all of which contribute to sustainable power solutions on a worldwide scale [29–32]. Therefore, designing solar PV pumping sys- tems might solve the water crisis problem of farmers in India [33,34]. One of the main advantages of using solar PV as a supplemental energy source in pumping systems design is that it can lower greenhouse gas emissions and the amount of fossil fuel-derived grid power used [35,36]. In this aspect, several authors presented different studies on the design of PV pump systems [37–40]. According to Morales and Busch [41], there is a correlation between the increased water demands for livestock and irrigation and the seasonal increase in solar energy. This highlights one of the advantages of utilizing solar energy for agricultural water pump systems. Yahyaoui et al. [42] presented an algorithm for a PV pumping system, and it depends on the water volume needed, site characteristics, and panel characteristics. Navarro-Hellín et al. [43] developed decision support systems for managing irrigation systems in the agriculture sector. The decision support system decides on the amount of water to rinse or the number of minutes to irrigate given steady water flow. Based on the data provided by the sensors, an auto- matic judgment is made. As a result, this component aims to simulate a human expert in the decision-making process of weekly irrigation optimization, which could help the farmer. Sreekantha and Kavya [44] developed the Internet of Things (IoT) for agriculture crop monitoring. The benefit of IoT is that the growers grow the crop with precision. IoT gathers all meteorological conditions such as temperature, soil moisture content, and humidity. A sensor network controls everything, and the user can access real-time infor- mation on the land field [45,46]. With the use of IoT, the system be- comes more cost-efficient [47]. Kothawale and Rajeevan [48] presented that large portions of the country have been adversely impacted by low monsoon rainfall, and the Indian government has spent a significant amount of money to provide aid to those affected. For 1871–2016, average monthly rainfall values for India (as a whole) were calculated by weighing each of the 30 sub-divisional rainfalls with their corresponding area as a weight. Vinoth and Vithiya [49] developed an autonomous irrigation system that monitors the soil’s water content and the farm field’s temperature. The sensor is kept in the soil, so the user does not need to supply water if the moisture in the soil is over the threshold. When the soil moisture sensor output is high, indicating that the soil moisture is low, the user must supply the water. Mahmood et al. [50] suggested that solar PV water pumping systems are one of the finest choices for irrigation systems in distant places where grid connectivity is difficult or impossible to get.