 By adopting space and resource saving technologies of agriculture like vertical farming, hydroponics, aeroponics, protected cultivation etc, good quality vegetable production round the year can be increased. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 113 6.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints According to Census of 2011, India’s population rose to 1.21 billion people over the last 10 years — an increase by 181 million. According to a survey by UN State of the World Population report in 2007, 40.76 per cent of country’s population is expected to reside in urban areas by 2030. The traditional pattern of poverty incidence is rapidly shifting from rural to urban areas. Every day an estimated one thousand people come to live in Delhi alone. These include migrants from poorer states such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (National Capital Region Planning Board, 1996). State agriculture faces multiple challenges that emanate both from within the system and from outside. Agriculture around cities improves the access of urban consumers to cheap and healthy food. The food produced in Urban and Peri- Urban Agricultural areas contribute to fulfill annual or seasonal demand in Delhi. For instance, the bulk of city dwellers’ staple food requirements cannot be met by the urban and peri- urban agricultural areas. In contrast, a majority (in terms of both volume and number) of selected vegetables in the major wholesale markets were found to originate from the urban and peri-urban agricultural areas. Availability of such locally produced fruits and vegetables can contribute to solving highly prevalent urban nutritional problems stemming from insufficient intake of vitamins and minerals. The most striking feature of urban agriculture, which distinguishes it from rural agriculture, is that it is integrated into the urban economic and ecological system: urban agriculture is embedded in -and interacting with- the urban ecosystem. Such linkages include the use of urban residents as laborers, use of typical urban resources (like organic waste as compost and urban wastewater for irrigation), direct links with urban consumers, direct impacts on urban ecology (positive and negative), being part of the urban food system, competing for land with other urban functions, being influenced by urban policies and plans, etc. Urban Agriculture plays an important role for making a city more resilient and safe in term of not only food and economy but also improving standard of living of urban poor by increasing mean of livelihood. There are certain advantages of farmers of Delhi due to the megacity and its infrastructure. The road and railway networks are well developed, facilitating access to nearby urban markets. The additional availability of cheap migrant labour forces as well as highly qualified urban professionals makes peri-urban areas valuable locations for national and international industries.