 This extract is mixed with 200 ml water and given to the affected animal with help of bamboo pipe. This dose is repeated 4 times a day and continued up to 2-3 days for complete eradication of poisonous effect. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: kothambadi, snakebite, poison Fever and losing consciousness that leads to death is common in chickens. For curing this disease in poultry, the bark of kavitha (Limonia acidissima Shri Om Prakash Gangwar, S/o Shri Nathu Lai, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Selva Pandi, Ayyanarpuram, Ammachiyapuram, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 531 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Sudharkarbhai Kochubhai Goli, Vanki Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3462 Treatment for various poultry diseases L.) is used. About 100 g bark of kavitha tree is crushed and 500 ml water is added to it. It is kept for 1-2 hr and then filtered. This water is kept near the diseased chicken so that it can drink the medicated water several times a day. No other source of drinking water is kept nearby. The villagers of Vanki and the people in the nearby villages are using this method for treatment to cure chickens effectively for generations. Keywords: kavitha, bark, chickens 1. Diarrhoea: If the bird shows symptoms with watery and green faeces, foul ordour, discharge from the nose, coughing and sneezing, swelling of head and head with neck twisted to one side, drooping wings, dragging legs, sleepiness, convulsions and paralysis; the affected chickens are to be removed and kept separately. A mixture of the leaves of veliparuthi (Pegularia daemia) and kuppaimeni (Acalypha indica) and the bark of neem (Azadirachta indica) and velvelam (Acacia leucophloea) are crushed and mixed with mi flour, and given to birds as feed. The birds are treated successfully. 2. Nutritious feed for turkey chicks: The feed consists mainly of seedlings of blackgram (Phaseolus radiatus). Blackgram is sown in nursery beds and 3 days old seedlings are utilised for preparation of feed. The young chicks are allowed to feed on the seedlings. In addition, for 15 days omelette (roast eggs) mixed with leaves of adathoda (Adathoda zeylanica) and poduthalai (Lippia Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri S. P. Balu, Kulamangalam (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3463 Dipping birds in water to hasten moulting process 3464 Application of ash to increase the efficiency of moulting process in birds nodiflera)is fed.