 Within Sikkim goat population, Singharey and Sikkim black goat sub-populations showed similar genetic trends. To explore the possibility of differentiation between Sikkim black and Singharey goats, the multi- locus FST value of breed differentiation was only 3.6% of the total genetic variation. Kaunayen chicken: Genetic characterization of Kaunayen chicken found in Manipur was carried out. Genotype data on 24 microsatellite loci, distributed ubiquitously revealed that mean number of alleles observed in Kaunayen chicken were 8.83±0.64 and ranged between 4 (MCW250 and LEI174) and 15 (LEI120). Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the Kaunayen chicken is a distinct population with respect to other poultry breeds of India, the closest was Red Jungle fowl. Kaunayen chicken Donkey from Andhra Pradesh Sikkim goat GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 27 Ladakhi cattle: Complete D loop sequence of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was characterized in 50 Ladakhi cattle and 15 haplotypes were observed with haplotypic diversity of 0.942 ± 0.00186. No significant deviations from neutrality were identified in the observed haplotypes. The haplotypes identified in Ladakhi cattle were compared with other native cattle breeds. A total of 110 polymorphic sites were detected in D-loop region across 21 native cattle breeds. The haplotypic diversity values ranged from 0.837 in Sahiwal to 1.00 in Deoni. No significant deviations from neutrality were identified in these haplotypes. Other than Sahiwal and Umblachery, all the breeds showed more than 10 haplotypes. In terms of nucleotide diversity, Ongole, Kangyam, Khillar, Amritmahal and Umbalcherry breeds showed higher values. Ex situ conservation Epididymal sperm banking was initiated at National GeneBank of the Institute through cryopreserving the caprine and ovine epididymal sperms. Six thousand frozen semen doses of cattle (Hariana and Sahiwal) were procured during this year. The National Gene Bank now has 135,174 frozen semen doses belonging to 44 breeds of 7 species (cattle, buffalo, goat, sheep, camel, equine and yak). Cattle The differential expressions of interferon stimulated genes [2-5 oligoadenylate synthetase 1 (OAS1), Myxovirus resistance gene 1 (MX1) and 2(MX2), and interferon-stimulated gene 15 kDa protein (ISG15)] were evaluated at 18th day post AI in peripheral blood mononuclear cells. In the nulliparous pregnant animals, the expression of OAS1, ISG15, MX2 and MX1 was higher than the non-pregnant animals. However, pregnant and non-pregnant multiparous cows showed similar expression of interferon stimulated genes on day 18 post AI. An RT LAMP assay based bovine HSP70 gene profiling was developed as an alternative to quantitative assay. Poultry Genomic profiles of chicken lines: The bone morphogenetic protein 3 (BMP3) and BMP4 genes were analysed in control broiler (CB) and control layer (CL) chicken to determine polymorphism in the promoters.