 The project works through Self Help Group and covers more than three thousand beneficiaries, drawn from seven states. Dr (Ms) Pushpa Gupta, Dean, College of Home Science, MPUA and T, Udaipur, is the Principal Investigator and Dr (Ms) Tej Verma, ADG (H.Sc.), ICAR, New Delhi is the mission leader of the project. Strong linkages have been built-up involving scientists and other multi-disciplinary areas covering agricultural and mechanical engineering, farm machinery and power, agro-processing and social science disciplines, NGOs and Industries alongwith home scientists placed at seven co-operating centres have successfully formulated the SHGs. The entrepreneurship development areas have been identified for execution. The Peer Review workshop of World Bank has also been held. The Study on Nutritional Status of Adolescent girls of Haryana with special reference to anemic and its eradication through iron supplementation has been implemented by Dr Salil Sehgal, CCSHAU, Hisar. The project highlights the dietary survey result that the mean daily energy, protein, Vitamin A, iron, zinc intake of 13–15 years adolescent girls was less than 80% of recommended daily allowances. It was found that approximately 96% of the girls were anemic. Hemoglobin, PCV, serum iron of subjects in all the three supplementation groups significantly increased at the end of supplementation period as compared to initial and control groups. Increase in Haemoglobin level was maximum in the group fed with iron foliate tablets followed by the group fed on fortified salt and iron rich recipes. The Scheme on Development of Nectars from selected Fruits and Fruit Blends was implemented by Dr K. Aruna at PG Research Centre, ANGRAU, Hyderabad. Fruit Pulp from Amal (Small), black grapes, Grapes (green), Guava, Mango (Baneshan), Mango (Rasalu), Mango (Raw), Papaya, Pineapple, Sapota and Water Melon prepared using Citric Acid as a preservative and storage life was evaluated. Later nectar blends were prepared. Fruit Powders were developed from papaya, pineapple, blackgrapes, watermelon and the shelf life was also standardized for commercialization. Scheme implemented on development of nectars from selected fruits and fruit blends (above) papaya powder (below) nectar and nectar blends with natural flavours 3. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions l One variety each of wheat (VL Gehun 804), pea (Vivek Matar 8) and barnyard millet (VL Madira 181) released. l Vivek Sankul Makka 11 maize composite and VLT 9531 tomato variety identified for release in Uttaranchal. l Shot-duration, blast-resistant strains (VL 95-6446 and VL 96-6747) of rice and exotic line (VHC 12) of capsicum identified for release in Uttaranchal hills. A promising garden pea variety Vivek Matar 8, having thick skin and free from fuit-cracking, contains higher total soluble solids (16.8%).