 This sector has role of providing livelihood to approximately 16 million people in fish production and 32 million in value chain of fish farming (National Fisheries Policy 2020). Though India is blessed with long coastal line and inland Fisherman with the produce water bodies, fish farming being supported by many government policies, acceptance of Indian fish and fish products in international market, higher growth rates in aquaculture, are some of the hurdles existing which should be rule out to nurture fish farming and dependent farmers. Major constraints in fish farming are use of traditional methods for fish culture and harvesting, poor access to quality feed and seed, poor processing facility, seasonality in the occupation, poor access to credits, lack of knowledge among farmers about government policies and subsidies, inadequate and poor infrastructure, lack of diversity in culture of fish species, lower productivity due to incidence Indian Farming 30 March 2024 Indian Farming 31 March 2024 of diseases etc. Considering these issues, here comes the multidimensional role of KVKs in nurturing of aquaculture and development of aquapreneurs. From creating awareness and promotion of fish farming among poor farmers, KVK has vital role in introduction and popularization of new and improved technologies of fish farming. Role of fish farming in livelihood security Sri Dinesh Jaiswal, S/o Sri Chotaka, a young farmer belonging to small farmer category was unemployed and habitant of Village – Itwa, District – Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh). He was performing crop farming only on a small piece of land. Mr Dinesh searched job and consulted everywhere for employment. Lastly, he decided to do fish farming along with crops. He has 2 ha land in a joint family. Mr. Dinesh consulted KVK Chitrakoot and visited demonstration unit at center. He showed his interest in fish farming. KVK, Chitrakoot trained him in composite fish farming techniques and about pre-and post-stocking management with package of practices. He excavated pond of 2500 Sqm and started fish cultivation with appropriate size of IMC fingerling. After few months, Dinesh stocked 3000 Pungas fish seed in his pond with IMC during 2021-22. Feeding and water quality management was managed efficiently in consultation with KVK Subject matter specialists. Output Mr. Dinesh adopted complete package of practices, stocked 5 g size fingerling of Catla, Rohu, Nain and Pungasius @ 10000 per ha. The feeding was done by floating fish feed and water quality management by application of lime and disinfectants with the consultation of KVK scientists time-to-time. He stocked IMC during October 2021 and Pungasius stocking was done during March 2022. Manuring and fertilization was done properly. He harvested fish during November 2022 and obtained yield up to 118.4 q/ha with B: C ratio of 1.