 Propagation: Lily can be multiplied by the means Indian Horticulture 28 Tiger and LA lilies exhibit this behaviour. y Scale: The scale method is a swift method of multiplication. In early autumn, the bulbs would be lifted and the scales should be carefully detached from the outer whorl of the bulbs. After being treated with fungicide, the scales were planted in the well-prepared sandy-soil beds. After planting, it is essential to provide a protective winter mulch. Small bulblets quickly emerge at the base of the scales, but it is advisable to leave them for an additional year of growth before transplanting them to their designated flowering location. Support: Providing support to lilies with wire or netting is essential throughout their active growing period. This support can be extended parallel to the growth of the plants until the flower stems are harvested. Physiological disorders: Bud drop: It is categorized by wilting and whitening of flower bud, followed by necrosis. It typically occurs when the bud is 2-3 cm in length. Bud drop is linked to low light and short-photoperiod, often Characteristics and Cultivars of Lilium Type Characteristics Cultivars Pictures Asiatic hybrid lily Indeed, Asiatic hybrid lilies are the result of hybridization involving 7 distinct Asian species having the features of early flowering (10-12 weeks), easy to propagate, upright flowers and resistance to various insects and diseases. Enchantment, Salmon-Beauty, Jollanda, Grand Paradiso, Alaska, Monte-Rosa, Red-Tiger, Tresser, Navona, Pollyanna, Snow-Star, Roma, London, etc. LA lily LA hybrids are evolved by crossing Lilium longiflorum and Asiatic hybrid lilies showing the characteristics of Asiatic hybrid lilies except dwarf and sturdy nature. Bright Diamond, Yellow Diamond, Casa-Rosa, Evening-Star, Pavia, Royal- Dream, Salmon-Queen, etc. Oriental hybrid lily These lilies are derived from various species. These lilies are characterized by flat & horizontally oriented, recurved, fragrant and late flowering (14-16 weeks). Casa-Blanca, Mona-Lisa, Lareve, Everest, Acapulco, Sans-Souci, Primeur, Siberia, Canberra, Rialto, etc. High Quality bulb-size 14-22 cm of seed, scale, bulblet and bulbil. Successful large-scale multiplication has been achieved through the method of micropropagation. y Seed: Seed can be sown indoor in flat pot during the winter and later transplanted outdoors in the spring. An ideal soil mixture for seed sowing comprises 7 parts of loam, 3 parts of peat and 2 parts of sand. The seeds are planted in pots and then covered with finely screened leaf mould. It is crucial to maintain adequate moisture in the compost. Sowing the seeds in rows is suggested to facilitate the transplanting. y Bulblet: Lily is typically propagated through the division of bulblet that form on the stems, situated just underneath ground level, but above mother bulbs.