 The haplogroups of the BMP3 promoter showed significant effect on body weights at 28th and 42nd day of age. Expression of troponin C type 1 (TNNC1) and myoglobin (Mb) were explored in different tissues in Indian native chicken breeds. The TNNC1 was predominantly expressed only in muscle and heart, whereas expression of Mb was observed in gizzard, heart and muscle tissues. At day 1st and 28th day, Mb was highly expressed in gizzard and heart followed by muscle as compared to bursa. In muscle tissue, at 28th day expression of Mb was 9-fold higher than that of day-old age. Among all the tissues, Mb was found expressed at the highest magnitude in gizzard — 80 folds higher expression at day-old age in Ghagus breed as compared to Aseel breed of chicken. Expression of TNNC1 was higher in heart, spleen and muscle at day-old age, whereas at day 28th, heart and muscle showed the higher expression. In spleen, at day-old age, expression of TNNC1 was 19 folds Characterization of Arunachali yak: Animal Genetic Resources of India Yaks are reared at 3,000-5,000 m above mean sea level in trans-Himalayan region of Ladakh, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Himachal Pradesh, West Bengal and Uttarakhand of In- dia. Although In- dian yaks are sparsely character- ized at phenotypic level, no systemic documentation has been done to dem- onstrate the popu- lation of yaks as breed. Based on the available infor- mation, yak found in Arunachal Pradesh are the most pure and unique in the world. Present study systematically documented phe- notypic characteristics of Aruanchali yaks, which are reared under semi-migratory system and 85% of yaks are black. Lactating females are producing on an av- erage 1.3 kg milk/day which is primarily used to pre- pare products due to high fat (8.0%) percentage. The first calving for Arunachali yak is observed at the age of 43-45 months. Although yak milk and wool products are treated as valuable entity for its uniqueness, how- ever, decreasing population trend of yak is of serious concern. The yak, which is recog- nized as one of the critical and endan- gered mountain species, needs urgent attention for in situ and ex situ conservation as well as breed charac- terization. GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 28 higher than that of 28th day of age across the breeds. At 28th day of age, 4 folds higher expression of TNNC1 in muscle was noticed in Aseel breed as compared to Ghagus breed. On 1st and 28th day, higher expression was found in heart tissue in Aseel compared to Ghagus. It is concluded that the expression of TNNC1 and MB genes varied between breeds and expressed differentially in the tissues within the native chicken breed. Mithun Muscle transcriptome analysis: To identify the genes associated with muscle growth potential, the transcriptome of Longissimus muscle from two divergent lines, having differential growth rates, viz. high and low, was analysed.