 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 312 Ehnomedical cure for veterinary diseases with Aegle marmelos Fruit of baclaripal (Aegle marmelos) is aromatic,used in habitual constipation, chronic dysentery, dysppsia. Unripe fruits are used as stomachic demulcent. Pulp is antipyretic, antiscorbutic while root and stem bark only act as antipyretic. Aegelin is used in the treatment of bronchial spasms. Parabia et al. (2000) 313 Ehnoveterinary disease management Useful part of alpinia galanga is rhizome which contains compheridine, galangin, alpin, essential oil, methyl cinnamate, camphor. Used as expectorant, stimulant, carminative, stomachic and hence used against rheumatism, fever, cattarh, sorethroat. Parabia et al. (2000) 314 Medicinal use of dita bark Stembark, leaf and milky juice of diata bark are used against diarrhoea, dysentry and snake bites. Milky juice is applied on ulcers for cure.The active ingradients present are ditamine, echitamine, alstonine, echitamidine. Parabia et al. (2000) 315 Medicinal importance of lovelies bleeding Seeds and plant of contain fatty oil which is used as astringent, demulcent, diuretic and hence acts against diarrhoea, dysentry, externally emollient on ulcers in throat and mouth. Parabia et al. (2000) 316 Ehnomedical importance of Amaranthus Plant, stem, root and leaf of Amaranthus are used and contain protein and iron. Leaf and root acts as laxative, emollient, while root alone acts as galactogogue. Used against gonorrhoea, eczema, colic. Poultice prepared from plant controls boils and burns. Parabia et al. (2000) 317 Medicinal use of: Elephant foot yam Useful parts are root, tuber/corm and seed that contain mainly acrid juice. Tuber is used astonic, stomachic, restorative, carminative and acts against piles, dysentry, swellings, rheumatism, while root is used as emmenogogue and acts against opthalmia. Parabia et al. (2000) 318 Ethnoveterinary importance of Cashew nut Stembark, fruit, seed, spirit and oil of cashew nut generally acts as vermicide, insecticide, purgative while nutoil is used as irritant, rubifacient and generally used against diarrhoea, cough, and leprosy. Principal constituents are cardol ( acrid oil), anacardic acid. Parabia et al. (2000) 236 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 319 Medicinal properties of Fagonia cretica, F.schweinfurthii Plant, leaf of damahan (Fagonia cretica) have harmine, Triterpeniods that are used as astrigent, tonic, febrifuge, antiseptic, dropsy, delirium, and prophylactic against against smallpox. Parabia et al. (2000) 320 Ethnoveterinary importance of sitaphal Every part is medically important. Leaf and fruit contains amorphous alkaloid which is anti bacterial, pediculocidal, astringent, vermicide and insecticide; seed contains acrid principle that act as pediculocidal and detergent.