 Hill Farmg 12 (1 & 2): 134- 135 (1999)  reaches, gravity flow, elevation difference, orchard 2290 Coping with heat and water shortages for plantation crops in Andaman and Nicobar islands Agro-climatic conditions on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands are favourable for growing spices, coconut and other cash crops. But the rather extreme seasons pose a serious challenge to the islands's growers. A prolonged rainy season (May to November) is followed by a period of intense summer (December- April). Annual rainfall averages 3000 mm and sometimes exceeds 4200 mm, but since there is no permanent source of water for irrigation on the islands, the absence of rain in the summer creates an acute crisis. To cope up with the problem, they adopt the following practices: The farmers of this region adopt to plant coconut and arecanut seedlings close to banana plants. Banana plants grow well, manage to withstand the extreme summer and mature quickly. Once established, they create shade and also keep the surrounding area moist and cool since they store much water in their roots and stems. When coconut and arecanut plants are planted among banana plants, their roots are protected during the hot and dry season. The first one or two years are critical for coconut and arecanut plants. If they can survive these years, the plants can manage on their own. In the hills of the Andaman and Nicobar Islands, where water level drop most severely in summer, it is difficult to raise the especially vulnerable arecanut seedlings. Farmers therefore place the seedlings near well-established coconut trees, which offer them shade. Some farmers make particularly clever use of the fibrous husks that are left after arecanuts are extracted from their pods. Instead of throwing away or burning the fibers, they place them in a circular ditch which they have dug around the base of the arecanut plant. This protects the stem from direct sunlight and keeps the area cool by reducing the evaporation from the soil. And as the fiber slowly decompose, they become Dr. A.K. Bandyapadhyay, Central Agricultural Research Institute, P.O. Box 181 Portblair (Andaman and and Nicobar Islands) 744101 Dr. G.S. Saha Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA) Dhauli Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) 751 003 Ref: Indigenous Knowledge and Deve lopment Monitor, Vol. 7: 26-27  organic manure that adds fertility to the soil. The farmers find this very effective and the practice is rapidly becoming popular among them. Some farmers cover the base of coconut plant with leaves from the same plant. This also prevents direct sun from drying out the stem and it keeps the base cool. The leaves when they ecompose, turn into organic manure. Another problem for farmers on the islands is salt water. Low-lying areas are flooded with sea water during high tide. Coconut plantation suffers when roots are in frequent contact with salt water.