 The extreme phenotypic segregants for the trait were identified, and pooled to constitute resistant and susceptible bulk. These along with one of its parent, viz. Maruti were subjected to whole genome resequencing and its analysis revealed that 2 QTLs/genomic region on chromosome 2 and 8 were responsible for Fusarium wilt resistance. Further fine mapping of this genomic region will be done using RIL population derived from Bahar and Maruti. CRISPR/Cas based multiplex genome editing of indica rice cultivar for yield improvement: CRISPR/ Cas technology was utilized to edit the cytokinin oxidase (OsCKX2) gene of rice controlling the grain number in order to increase the yield of Samba Mahsuri. Guide RNAs for two different exons of OsCKX2 were designed and a CRISPR/Cas construct was developed to produce guide RNAs and Cas protein. The genome-editing Hairy root induction in grasspea using cotyledon explants with attached short hypocotyl The genome-edited T0 lines showed 200 to 496 grains/panicle in comparison to ~150 grains/panicle in wild-type or non-edited Samba Mahsuri plants under glasshouse conditions. Further, phenotypic evaluation of selected T1 lines showed desired characters like strong culm and early maturity contributed by new allele of OsCKX2. Filing of Patent Related to Protein Quality Assessment in Maize Grains Filed application for an Indian patent (Application No. 202211015547) on rapid differentiation of normal maize from Quality Protein Maize. The developed method requires 5 min for differentiating normal maize from QPM, when a milled sample is provided. This is expected to enable premium remuneration to QPM growers, given the utility of QPM in animal and human health. The colour developed can be read in spectrophotometer of ELISA reader for differentiation of samples, based on protein quality. Colour-based differentiation of maize samples on the basis of protein quality Read Out QPM Normal With illuminaton Without illuminaton Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 55 construct was stably expressed in Samba Mahsuri by using Agrobacterium-mediated genetic transformation. 40 independent T0 lines were obtained having a range of deletions, insertions, and substitutions (1bp to 77bp) at desired nucleotide sequences. The gRNAs showed 100% editing efficiency with ~95% biallelic mutations in T0 generation. Mutation resource of Samba Mahsuri, BPT 5204: To create novel variants for morphological, physiological, and biotic stress tolerance traits, induced mutations were created using Ethyl Methane Sulphonate (EMS) in the background of Samba Mahsuri (BPT 5204), a popular and mega rice variety of India. Whole genome re-sequencing revealed substantial variation in comparison to Samba Mahsuri.