 (iii) Monitoring needs to be stringently carried out by the monitoring team, both for the trait introgressed in the NILs and for the equivalence to the recurrent parent. VI. Trials with approved genetically modified (GM) events All the evaluation procedures shall be following protocols which are identical with the corresponding crops unless otherwise stipulated during the environmental release by the Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC). The same shall apply to the process of seed production purpose with reference to maintenance of isolation distances, as per the Indian Minimum Seed Certification Standards for the respective crop. Note: If any specific addition/modification to the above guidelines is considered essential, the issue(s) may be discussed in the workshop and the recommendation therefrom may be approved from the DDG (Crop Science)/ICAR. VII. Crop-wise testing requirements Wheat 1. Important characters on which data should be recorded A. Yield (i) Grain yield (kg/ha) 16 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (ii) Straw yield (kg/ha) B. Yield components (i) 1,000-grain weight (g) (ii) Number of spikes/m2 (iii) Number of grains/spike C. Agronomic features (i) Plant height (cm) (ii) Days to 75% heading (iii) Days to 75% spikes turning yellow (iv) Seedling count per running metre (average of 5 observations) (v) Number of ear-bearing tillers per running metre (average of 5 observations) (vi) Plant stand at maturity (% visual score) (vii) Lodging (%) (viii) Threshability (easy, medium, hard) D. Grain characteristics (i) Colour (amber, white, red) (ii) Texture (hard, semi-hard, soft) (iii) 1,000-seed weight (g) (iv) Lustre (shining, medium, dull) E. Physiological characteristics a. Plant characters (i) Seedling vigour (ii) Straw strength (iii) Leaf rolling b. Response to abiotic stresses (i) Temperature (ii) Drought (iii) Salinity/alkalinity (iv) Micronutrient deficiency F. Diseases and insect-pests a. Diseases Major diseases (i) Rusts: Brown, black and yellow (use specified scales) (ii) Response of important individual races under controlled conditions (iii) Loose smut (% of spikes affected) 17 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (iv) Karnal bunt (% of grains affected and severity) (v) Powdery mildew (use specified scale) (vi) Leaf blight caused by Bipolaris, Helminthosporium and Alternaria (Use double digit scale for scoring: 00-99) Minor diseases Data may be recorded on the reaction to following diseases in the regions where these occur. (i) Head scab (ii) Flag smut (iii) Foot- rot (iv) Hill bunt (% of heads affected) b. Insect-pests There is no serious problem of insect-pests in wheat. However, observations on the following pests should be recorded. (i) Termites (ii) Shoot- fly (iii) Brown mites (iv) Aphids (v) Stem-borer (vi) Root aphid G. Grain-quality parameters a.