 MOHAPATRA) 17 November 2020 New Delhi Indian Farming November 2020 5 Expanding studies on enclosure culture (Cage & Pen) with special focus on fish species diversification in India B K Das1* and U K Sarkar2 ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, West Bengal 700 120 ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore is the pioneer for the development of technology for both fingerlings raising and table fish production. Technologies developed by ICAR-CIFRI have been applied and extended successfully in many reservoirs in different parts of the country. The present article highlights the advances of enclosure culture and discusses species diversification, potentials, issues, challenges and way forward for sustainable fisheries enhancement and employment generation from reservoirs and floodplain wetland resources. Keywords: Cage farming, ICAR-CIFRI, Loktak lake, Pen culture Indian Farming 70(11): 05–09; November 2020 F ISHERIES is a sunrise sector which provides livelihood to millions of fishers and fish farmers in India. This sector has immense potential to double the fishers and fish farmers’ incomes and the fish production has reached an all-time high of 137.58 lakh MT during 2018- 19. The inland open water fisheries resources especially reservoirs (>3.51 million ha) and wetlands (0.5 million ha) have immense potential to produce more fish by bridging the gap between present production and potential. The fisheries management through different approaches like the adoption of stock enhancement, Culture Based Fisheries (CBF) and enclosure culture techniques like cage farming and pen farming are gaining momentum and importance, as they have proven to create more fish and thereby income and employment for the growing human resource of the country. Enclosure culture brings in new opportunities and avenues for optimizing fish production from the reservoirs and other inland open waters, and developing new skills In recent years, enclosure fish farming in reservoirs either for stocking materials or for the production of table size fish has attracted the attention of researchers, developmental agencies, entrepreneurs and policymakers across the nation. The growth of cage fish farming in reservoirs has gained further momentum during 2010-12 with financial support from National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB), Government of India, NMPS etc. In 2011, CIFRI ventured into raising table-fish of economically important species through cage culture by installing cage facilities with durable galvanized iron frames in Maithon Reservoir, Jharkhand (Figs 1 & 2). This paved the way for the adoption and popularization of this technology in several reservoirs belonging to more than 20 States in ‘Mission Mode’ through various schemes and programmes. Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra have widely adopted this technology and scaling up is in progress in many states.