 It is a medium size buffalo, reared mainly for milk purpose (Daily milk yield, 1.5 to 8.7 litre); average milk fat 6.9%. The milk is used for preparation of famous Dharwad Peda with GI tag. Tropical tuber crops: A tall dasheen type taro with 10–12 kg/plant tuber yield has been identified. Flowers Tuberose: Sahyadri Vaman, a dwarf tuberose (plant height 48 to 52 cm) genetic stock was identified and registered with NBPGR pot culture, terrace/roof gardening, vertical panels, landscaping (bedding) besides vase decoration as cut flower (6–7 days of vase life). Sahyadri Vaman—a dwarf genetic stock of tuberose GENETIC RESOURCES ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 32 Manda buffalo (Accession number: INDIA_BUFFALO_1500_MANDA_01019): Manda buffalo is distributed in Koraput, Malkangiri and Nawarangapur districts of Odisha. It is a sturdy buffalo, well adapted to hill ranges of Eastern Ghats and plateau of Koraput region of Odisha and is reared for draught, milk and manure. Daily milk production ranges between 1.2 to 3.7 kg with average milk fat as 8.4. Morphological characterization Monyul cattle: Monyul cattle of Tawang and West Kameng districts of Arunachal Pradesh was characterized. Monyul cattle are reared by the Monpa community for milk, manure, and draught and are smaller than Siri cattle of Sikkim. The coat color is generally black but shades of brown are also present; white patches may also be present in some animals specifically on the head, legs, and lower abdomen. Body covered with thick hair coat; hairy tail reaching well below the hock; horns small to medium size, pointed forward; hump visible in adult males. Monyul cows generally produce 2 to 3 kg milk in a day. Native buffaloes of Tripura: Bhangor buffaloes of Tripura are medium-size swamp type (48 chromosomes) generally grey to greyish-black with brown hairs. The horns are very long, curved and sickle-shaped with a flat broad base. Buffaloes are primarily reared for draught power. Milk yield varies between 1.5 and 2.5 litres/day. Native cattle of Manipur: Manipur cattle are small and sturdy with compact body. There is great demand for the bullocks for draught purpose. The body is brown, reddish, black, grey and white spotted on black or brown color body; horns grow upward, outward and curve anteriorly; poll prominent in Manipuri cattle; hump moderate in bulls, but small in cows. Nagavali sheep: Nagavali is mutton type sheep, distributed in north coastal districts of Andhra Pradesh. Named after Nagavali river, this sheep is also known as Karella. The animals are medium size, white coat with black patches around eyes, ears, neck, perineum and lower extremities; females polled, males horned; ears pendulous. The average adult body weight ranges from 28 to 54 kg in males and 20 to 38 kg in females. Phenotypic characterization Native cattle breed: Multivariate analysis was carried out for different biometric traits of 3,282 cattle of 21 native cattle breeds/populations of the country.