 Moreover, farmers and bank officials from rural branches from each clusters were well-versed in current agricultural credit systems among the selected participants. Data collection took place in various settings, such as work premises and homes, ensuring contextual relevance. In all clusters, non- participants were present, potentially influencing discussions and providing additional insights. To enhance data reliability, structured interview guides were used, and all sessions were audio/video recorded alongside detailed field notes. The duration of discussions ranged from 45 min to 1 h 20 min, allowing for a thorough exploration of key themes. Following data collection, each transcript was summarized to facil­ itate thematic analysis. This comprehensive study design enables a deeper understanding of both psychological and structural barriers to credit access. The insights gathered will contribute to policy recom­ mendations, focusing on improving financial literacy, streamlining credit procedures, and enhancing digital financial inclusion to make agricultural credit more accessible and efficient. 2.3. Data analysis The FGDs are conducted in a comfortable and private setting. The moderator introduced the topic and questions, encouraged participa­ tion, and ensured that all participants have an opportunity to speak. The FGDs are recorded using audio and video equipment. This allows for accurate transcription and analysis of the data. The audio and video recordings of the FGDs, which were originally in the local language (Kannada), are subsequently translated and transcribed into written text in English. This process facilitated the analysis and interpretation of the data. The data collected from the FGDs is filtered to select the most relevant and informative data for analysis. The selected information are analysed using thematic analysis as elaborated by (Braun & Clarke, 2006; Naeem et al., 2023). Summary of study design has been described in Table 1:. 3. Results Three dimensions were identified during the analysis of the study's findings. At first, discussion of psychological barriers in accessing credit and to overcome those barriers were discussed. It involved the in­ formant's perspective on the methods to improve the overall inclusivity and accessibility of agricultural credit, followed by the importance of integrating digital innovation into agricultural credit systems, and finally, the role of policymakers in enhancing the impact of agricultural credit systems. 3.1. Theme 1: factors that enhance accessibility and inclusivity The participants' perspectives on the factors that improve accessi­ bility and inclusivity reveal a few aspects (Table 2), including the need for training and awareness on the various credit schemes available to them, the need for a single identification system as a farmer, and the need for targeted credit schemes based on the crop grown and/or their geographical area. Table 1 Study design.