 ï Training Board chaired by the DG, ICAR has been constituted and started giving overall direction for the implementation of the Policy. ï Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) in ICAR is being implemented for all categories of employees. ï Advisories from time to time are issued by HRM Unit for organising training programmes based on ëSystematic Approach to Trainingí. ï Cadre Training Plan (CTP) for each category of employees have been designed. ï Training Needs of all categories of employees have been identified in all ICAR-Institutes. ï Annual Training Plans (ATP) is being developed and implemented for all categories of employees in all ICAR-Institutes/HQs. ï Specialised Training Programmes for different categories of employees have been developed and being organised. ï Six monthly monitoring of implementation of ATP and fund utilisation is being done. ï Impact Assessment of training programmes has been performed for trainings attended during 2016-17 by about 2211 employees of different categories. ï Using the services of the Training Institutions like NAARM in outsourcing training. ï Maintaining the database of trained manpower for future reference in the ERP system. ï Training Management Information System (TMIS) is being developed to facilitate training and development activities of ICAR. ï A Chapter on Training and Capacity Building activities in the Annual Report of DARE/ ICAR and ICAR-Institutes has been introduced since 2016. 6. Constitution of Training Board of ICAR As per approved ICAR HRM Policy : Training and Capacity Building, a Training Board under the Chairmanship of DG, ICAR has been constituted and started giving overall direction for the implementation of the Policy. The present Training Board of ICAR is as under: 6 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) 1. Director General, ICAR Chairman 2. Secretary, ICAR Member 3. Three Deputy Director Generals (for 3 years) Members 4. Director, ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad Member 5. Joint Secretary (Training), DoPT, GoI, Member 6. Assistant Director General (HRM) Member Secretary 7. Implementation of Systematic Approach to Training The Systematic Approach to Training (SAT) is a methodology for managing training functions in the Organizations like ICAR. It is an orderly and logical approach for an end-to-end training functions and ensures that the employees are properly equipped with necessary knowledge, skills and behaviours to discharge their duties successfully. For implementation of SAT, Institutionalised System for Training and Capacity Building has been created to plan, monitor and implement the training functions in the ICAR. The SAT is implemented through the following four stages: ï Training Needs Analysis ï Design and Development of Training Programmes ï Implementation of Training Programmes ï Evaluation of Training Programmes 7.