 There are two distinct threads of literature addressing the risk-return trade-offs within maize based diversified cropping systems under different tillage practices, but their application in long-term studies is relatively limited. The first strand delves into how crop diversification serves as a strategy to mitigate risks (Burbano-Figueroa et al., 2022; Paut et al., 2020, 2019; Bodin et al., 2016; Mitter et al., 2015). These studies use the mean-variance (E-V) optimization model based on modern portfolio theory (MPT) initially proposed by Markowitz (1952). How­ ever, it’s worth noting that the mean-variance approach has its limita­ tions, as variance may not always serve as an accurate risk measure. It is most effective when yields follow a normal distribution and assumes that farmers are equally concerned about both upward and downward risks. Sukcharoen and Leatham (2016) have argued that intertemporal yield distributions are mostly nonnormal and farmers tend to be more focused on mitigating downside risks. They suggested employing the conditional value at risk measure, also known as mean-expected shortfall, which specifically addresses the likelihood of a yield loss surpassing a certain predefined percentile of the yield distribution. In this study, we adopted both methods to ensure the robustness of the proposed land allocations. The second strand of literature assesses the risk associated with economic returns in the context of conservation agriculture (Ngwira et al., 2013). For instance, Ngwira et al. (2013) determined that risk-averse farmers in Malawi would find conservation agriculture preferable, but those in higher elevations might require substantial incentives to adopt these technologies. We have applied two computational risk models, specifically a mean- variance quadratic optimization model and a mean-conditional value at risk model. These models are used to identify the optimal CA-diversified cropping system combinations from a 14-year long-term experiment conducted at the ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi research farm. We hypothesized that diverse cropping sys­ tems exhibit varying risk and return profiles in different production years. To optimize profitability while mitigating risk, we turn to the principles of modern portfolio theory (MPT), specifically employing mean-variance (E-V) optimization, as well as mean-expected shortfall measures, to allocate weights to the different cropping systems, so that farmers based on their expected return and risk bearing ability can choose different combination of cropping systems. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Trial location and design A long-term field experiment was initiated in 2008 and has been ongoing until 2023 at the research farm of the Indian Council of Agri­ cultural Research (ICAR)-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi (28◦40’ N, 77◦12’ E, and 228.6 m elevation). The soil at the site is characterized as sandy loam with a pH of 7.