 This movement is being supported by UN and government of India has also pledged support in 13 other river basins of India. 'Save Soil Policy Book' of Isha Foundation, focuses on positive effect of application of organics and use of cover crops. Well managed soil with adequate application of organics and practice of cover crops can moderate the effect of changing climate and act as shield against the occurrence of droughts. The degradation of soil carbon is an ecological problem in the present context and soil organic carbon should be enhanced to offset the climate change. Sadhguru voiced his apprehensions on socioeconomic consequences where, children of farmers are not practicing farming and migrating to other enterprises as farming has become less lucrative business. We have to bring agriculture income to that level where it is profitable. In this respect, Farmer Producer Organizations needs to be strengthened with suitable economic policies to support the initiative. Key takeaways Soil is the only magical material that turns death into life and everything essential like food, fodder and clothes etc. comes from soil. There is a need to maintain a balance between organic and chemical fertilizers, and the ICAR scientific community should take lead on sustaining soil health. 227 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series * As on date of lecture delivered Calendar of Lectures held under ICAR 75 Lecture Series S. No. Name Designation * Title of lecture Date 1. Dr Suresh Kumar Chaudhari Deputy Director General (NRM) Valuing Water for Agriculture 17 March, 2021 2. Dr K. Alagusundaram Deputy Director General (Agricultural Engineering), ICAR Precision Mechanization 25 March, 2021 3. Prof. Virendra Kumar Tiwari Director, IIT Kharagpur, WB Agricultural Mechanization for India in the 21st Centaury 31March, 2021 4. Dr Anand Kumar Singh Deputy Director General (Horticulture), ICAR Containing Malnutrition through Horticulture 5 April, 2021 5. Dr Joy Krushna Jena Deputy Director General (Fisheries Science), ICAR Aquaculture As Avenue for Assuring FISH (Food Security, Income Growth, Social Upliftment & Healthy Life) 16 April, 2021 6. Dr Erach Bharucha Director, Institute of Environment Education and Research, Bharati Vidyapeeth Environmental Education in India 22 April, 2021 7. Dr Anil Prakash Joshi Green Activist, Social Worker Prakriti aur Paryavaran 25 May, 2021 8. Dr S.K. Sharma Former Advisor, Ayurveda in Ministry of AYUSH Food & Dietary Concepts of Ayurveda- Indian traditional Wisdom of Food for Better Nutrition & Health 1 June, 2021 9. Dr Steve Goss Independent Consultant for World Bank and FAO PPP for Sustainable Irrigation: Roles of Government, Users & the Private Sector 7 June, 2021 10. Dr Farbod Youssefi Senior Agriculture Specialist, South Asia, World Bank Fostering Enabling Environment for Agribusiness 9 June, 2021 11. Prof. A.K. Srivasatava Member ASRB Know Your Dairy Food 17 June, 2021 12.