 The major objectives of sub-project on pearl millet include (i) Develop hybrids for drought-prone environments in A-1 zone through enhancing genetic diversity of hybrid parents (both seed and restorer parents) to develop hybrids for drought- prone environments; (ii) Support and monitor grain micronutrient traits (grain Fe and Zn) in NARS breeding programs; (iii) Characterization of blast and DM pathogens from different millet ecologies and identification of resistant sources for different isolates/pathotypes, and mapping, validation & deployment of QTLs for blast and downy mildew resistance; (iv) Generate and disseminate cultivars and hybrid parents for high biomass and better forage quality; and (v) Sharing of knowledge, breeding materials and human resource development. About 260 hybrid parental lines (seed and restorer parents) bred for drought adaptation/traits were evaluated at about 10 AICPMIP sites and promising lines were selected by centers for future use. Additionally, selections were made in populations and breeding materials bred for drought ecologies in collaboration with CAZRI under shuttle breeding mode, and promising lines were identified and advanced. Also, 20 promising multi-cut forage pearl millet cultivars were evaluated during summer season and promising ones were identified; and various forage pearl millet nurseries are currently being evaluated with IGFRI. Also, 345 entries from the pearl millet inbred germplasm association panel (PMiGAP) were screened for seedling-stage heat tolerance, to identify alleles for high seedling-stage heat tolerance. Major loci for general combining ability (GCA) and specific combining ability (SCA) were mapped for yield and yield-related traits. Also, major effect QTLs for downy mildew resistance (DMR) for the three new pathotype-isolates were mapped. Promising molecular breeding products in HHB 67 Improved and GHB 538 genetic backgrounds were tested in the EDV trial during rainy season 2019. A panel of 10-SNPs was used to select the drought tolerance alleles from the national breeding programs of the A1 zone. A SNP-based QC panel of 54 and 48 SNPs have been developed from the re-sequencing data of the ~1,000 genomes project. The two 54 and 48 SNP panels were used for assay development using diverse hybrid parental (B- and R-) lines with Intertek. Information on pearl millet heterotic gene pools was generated and published. Also, information on GS model was generated and the model was strengthened considering G×E interactions. To strengthen the biofortification breeding, 20 High- Fe inbred lines were contributed to the Elite Inbred Joint Biofortification Trial. ICRISAT analyzed about 2,300 pearl millet grain samples from AICPMIP trials for Fe & Zn to help in the entry promotion process. 18 hybrids developed under biofortification project were contributed to the different AICRP-PM trials.