6 22 area (million ha) Average annual 6,190 893 plan outlay (million Rs) Average O and M 600 265 expenditure (million Rs) Weighted water 104 398 rate (Rs/ha) Current water 190 116 rate demand (million Rs) Receipts, current 150 69 account (million Rs) Cost recovery, 25 26 current account (Per cent) DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 164 At existing structure of statutory charges/taxes, and transport and other costs, retail price for wheat in surplus states should be higher than farm harvest price by 36–60% in various months to attract private trade. In deficit state like Maharashtra, retail price before harvest need to be more than double the farm harvest price in surplus states to provide reasonable incentive to private trade. Similarly, the band suggests that retail prices of rice should be 96–213% higher than the farm harvest price of paddy to attract private trade to buy paddy and supply rice in various months and in several states. Price difference beyond this band would imply exploitation by private trade, which would need government intervention. Transport cost and statutory charges are the main elements of price spread and curtailing these costs can narrow down price band. Buffer stocks vis-à-vis variable levies on external trade Buffer stocks vis-à-vis variable levies on external trade Buffer stocks vis-à-vis variable levies on external trade Buffer stocks vis-à-vis variable levies on external trade Buffer stocks vis-à-vis variable levies on external trade The government has used buffer stocks as an important instrument for price stabilisation. However it is becoming fiscally unsustainable due to heavy cost of procurements, handling, carrying, storage etc. As an alternative it was suggested that the government should use the instrument of variable levies on external trade to stabilise domestic prices. A comparison of domestic stabilization measures and trade showed that selling and buying wheat in international market to stabilise domestic output does not result in large changes in international prices of wheat due to large volume of world trade in wheat. However, in rice, stabilising domestic supply through trade caused sharp fluctuation in international price of rice. Among the two options, viz. domestic stabilisation through buffer stock and stabilization through trade, the latter is costlier than domestic stabilization in most of the years though it also depends upon fluctuation in international price. If in future, relationship between domestic and international prices remains the same, as had been during the last 26 years, then policy of price stabilization through buffer stock seems to be a better option than trade.