 If social learning is important, I should expect to find larger treatment effects in villages with below median non-cereal cultivation at baseline, relative to above median villages where non-cereals are already prevalent among farmers.42 I fully interact Eq. (8) with a binary variable that takes the value 1 if the village has above median non-cereal cultivation at baseline in Appendix Table B20. I find statistically significant impacts for households in below median villages at baseline. These impacts are also significant for households in above median villages – the triple interaction terms reflecting differences in the subgroups are mostly small and insignifi- cant – suggesting that social learning is not a key driver of the reduced form effects. program roads. Anecdotally, this does not seem to have been the case as contractors required skilled workers who were able to operate the machinery required to pave the roads. As such, they typically brought full-time migratory workers from other districts to work on these projects. As a robustness check, I run my analysis excluding all households who were treated in the year right before the survey. Given the timing, this group of households would have experienced the largest impact if road construction itself generated income that relaxed households’ liquidity constraints. The results hold when I drop these households in Appendix Table B19, suggesting that wage income from road construction is not an important confound. 41 Between 1999 and 2006, mobile phone ownership among REDS households grew from 7 percent to 42 percent. 42 Foster and Rosenzweig (2010) define learning as ‘‘taking place when new information affects behavior and results in outcomes for an individual that are closer to the (private) optimum. Thus, in an environment where there is no new information, learning is unlikely, while in a setting in which a new technology or input is introduced, learning should be important.’’ Journal of Development Economics 152 (2021) 102686 16 Y. Shamdasani Fig. 4. Survey evidence. This figure summarizes surveys conducted with 114 male cultivators in remote villages with road connectivity across 3 districts in rural Odisha, India. Respondents were asked a series of questions pertaining to the past agricultural cycle (panel A) as well as several hypothetical scenarios on agriculture (panel B). The x-axis shows the percentage of respondents choosing a given answer. While my results are consistent with labor mobility playing an important role, I cannot definitively rule out other alternative channels at play. However, I have provided several pieces of evidence that, taken together, suggests that they are unlikely to fully account for the reduced form effects described in Section 6. 8. Conclusion This paper provides causal evidence for the effects of improvements in transport infrastructure on production decisions in agriculture for remote villages in rural India.