 b) Research: (i) To increase the utilization of water resources through multi-disciplinary research on water harvesting, micro irrigation, enhancing WUE to achieve higher factor productivity. (ii) To develop alternate cropping systems to attain multiple cropping and increase the productivity in the eastern states. (iii) Develop integrated farming systems models for the eastern states keeping in view of the specific requirements of the region. (iv) Develop horticulture and animal husbandry-based diversification systems to promote rural entrepreneurship. (v) Develop effective postharvest management and value-addition protocols for agri- produce to enhance the farm income and longer period of availability. 59 Crop Science 59 c) Outreach (i) Develop innovative extension models, dovetail them to developmental models, and disseminate them through KVKs, State Agricultural Universities and State extension and development departments in different states of the eastern India. (ii) Promote client oriented on-farm research and technology assessment, refinement and transfer through participatory approaches. (iii) Foster development in communication research and linkages with development programmes 3. Salient achievements • Initiated research on assessment of various rhizobacteria based bioinoculations for wheat ; the impact of rice straw derived biochar on productivity of rice-wheat system in acidic soil ; evaluation of fodder varieties of bajra-napier hybrids like IGFRI-10, Co-1, Co-5 and Kamdhenu in agro-climatic conditions of Jharkhand and recorded yield potential of 140- 200 tones/ha with 8-10 cuts in years and hence could sustain milk production in livestock by feeding these fodder round the year. • Three plant types of Papaya (JHP-4 yielded 40.59 kg fruit weight (First crop & 8 months duration) followed by JHP-5 (32.758) and JHP-6 (19.38). JHP-4 recorded an average fruit weight of 2.255 kg with saffron color pulp and 16.00 TSS) have been identified for higher yield and other horticulture traits in the Jharkhand. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Integrated Farming System Models of ICAR institutes which are suitable for Eastern Region of India. • Technical backstopping and related farm advisory & consultancy services for promoting agri-start-ups in different enterprises of agriculture and allied sectors • Participatory Production, procurement and distribution of quality planting materials like seeds of improved varieties of different crops. Administrative Building Papaya varieties identified for higher yield and other horticulture traits in the Jharkhand 60 ICAR Institutes Profile 60 ICAR-Central Citrus Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CCRI, PB No.464 Shankar Nagar P.O., Nagpur- 440010 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Dilip Ghosh iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.ccri@icar.gov.in 0712-2500813 2.