 etc : Age (years) : Discipline : Total experience (years) : Part II: Perception about the performance of CAFT participants after CAFT programmes Based on your experience through formal job relationship, kindly give your perception about the improvement in performance of your faculty staff after participating in the CAFT programme/s, by making a „√‟ in the appropriate column as judged by you. Job performance indicators Perception continuum on improvement in job performance SA A UD DA SD Designing new course curriculum Refining existing course curriculum Style of explaining the subject to the students Preparation of teaching resource materials/ manuals Presentation of subject information to the students Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 98 Level of scientific interaction with the students Selection of research topics for PG/ PhD students Style of guiding the PG/ PhD Students research Preparing proposal for new research projects Refining the methodology of on-going research projects Applying for external-funded projects Procurement of lab equipments Establishment of new laboratories Offering consultancies Research publications Designing and organizing training programmes for stakeholders Organizing farmers training programmes Organizing outreach programmes like FLDs, OFTs, diagnostic study visits, campaigns etc Any other information, pl. specify SA-Strongly agree; A-Agree; UD-Undecided; DA-Disagree; SDA-Strongly disagree Part III: Kindly explain briefly the measures taken by your university to facilitate participation of your staff in CAFT programmes and application of knowledge and skills by them after CAFT programmes. Part IV: Kindly offer your valuable suggestions for effective application of knowledge and skills by your faculty. (Signature) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 99 Annexure-VII Workshop Report Policy Workshop on “Effectiveness and training transfer of CAFT at NARS” (September 10-11, 2012) 1. Name of the course Policy Workshop on “Effectiveness and training transfer of CAFT at NARS” 2. Objectives  To capture the perception of participants towards CAFT programmes in terms of effectiveness, impact and training transfer  To recommend strategies for refinement of CAFT programmes to be organized during XII plan period 3. Workshop Directors Dr. R.Venkattakumar and Dr. BS Sontakki 4. Sponsoring authority, if any Education Division of ICAR 5. Duration with dates 2 days (September 10-11, 2012) 6. Number of participants 40 from SAUs, ICAR organizations and private organizations 7. Course material provided  Discussion paper on the study topic  Technical bulletin on “Training transfer at NARS its implications” 8.