 The institute is committed to carry basic and strategic research on processing of cotton and its agro-residues leading to development of value added products as well as quality assessment of fibre. It is the first textile institute in India to become a Referral Laboratory for Cotton Textiles. Calibration cotton, a standard reference material is hallmark of the institute’s R&D with 300 corporate users. It is preferred over USDA Calibration Cotton which is an import substitute. Further, institute is working on value addition to cotton biomass through particle board preparation, compost making, nanocellulose production, cottonseed oil etc. to provide additional income to cotton growers. Key words: Agri-business, Cotton community, Start-up Indian Farming 70(01): 15–17; January 2020 T HE CIRCOT has diversified its ambit to cover other natural fibers (Banana, Coconut) and started pioneering work in nanotechnology and its application in textile finishing, natural fibre based composites and environmentally benign technology for processing cotton textiles. The technology transfer activity was revitalized by inculcation of a business orientation through the establishment of a Business Planning and Development Unit to commercialize the technologies developed at the institute. The institute has good number of IP enabled technologies and patent related products and processes. ICAR-CIRCOT is providing the facilities regarding technology mentoring, IP management, product development activities, test marketing, canvassing of technologies, funding for the incubatee in focused and consistent manner. National Agricultural Research System (NARS) through the World Bank aided National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) has taken an initiative in 2008 across the country by establishing the Zonal Technology Management (ZTM) and Business Planning & Development (BPD) units. Taking into consideration its past credence as a unique technology institute within the ICAR system with rich experience in technology commercialization, technology transfer and Intellectual Property Rights management the first ZTM- BPD unit was launched at ICAR- CIRCOT. Agri-Business incubation ABI centre was established in 2016 under 12th plan scheme of National Agriculture Innovation Fund (NAIF) for the benefit of prospective entrepreneurs who wish to start their business using institute technologies on post-harvest processing of cotton and value addition to its by-products. This centre envisages facilitating incubation of new startups/ entrepreneurs and enterprises for innovative technologies by providing need based physical, technical, business and networking support, facilities and services to test and validate their venture before successful establishment of enterprises. The centre is also responsible for conducting techno-entrepreneurial activities in cotton value chain for building prospective clientele and facilitate skill development in selected stakeholders related to cotton sector.