 The right border and left border flanking regions of the 'Dharwad event' were identified through inverse PCR and Primers were designed based on the flanking regions. 18. 2008: After completing all the mandatory biosafety testing and field experimentation, the 'BN Bt variety' was approved for commercial cultivation in the 84th meeting of Genetic Engineering Approval Committee (GEAC) held on 2nd May 2008 19. Subsequently, Dr Khadi sent ten seeds to the Bt referral laboratory on 4" May 2008, for reconfirmation of the event present in 'BN Bt'. He provided results of the flanking region sequences and primers from Awasthagen. PCR was carried out using the primers but there was no amplification in any of the samples. The samples were then subjected to PCR using a three primer set that detects 'Mon531' event of Monsanto. Eight samples were found to be positive for ELISA and also for 'Mon531'. The same was communicated to Dr Khadi. 20. A meeting was convened by the DDG, CS, (Dr P. L. Gautam) and the issues related to the Mon531 event were discussed in depth in his chamber on the 21" May 2008 in the presence of Dr P. Anand Kumar, Dr B. M. Khadi, Dr Katageri and other officials including the ADGs, Dr K C. Jain and Dr Jhambhale. 21. Dr Kranthi described the results obtained by the Bt referral laboratory and requested that it would be appropriate to take remedial measures in view of the detection of 'Mon531' in the purported 'BN Bt' seed samples. He pointed out that the Awasthagen data were flawed since the left border sequences of the insert were not contiguous with the right border sequences on the bac clone and also the primers were not functional. He requested for a third party analysis to reconfirm the event data so that serious repercussions could be avoided in future. 22. Dr Ananda Kumar made a presentation of the unique nature of the Dharwad event based on flanking sequence analysis. The left border flanking sequences belongs to collon bac clone No. 106122 (NCBI) and the right border belongs to lipoxygenase (Lox1) gene. Dr Kumar also presented the results of BN-Bt analysis to show that the Dharwad event was different from that of the other known Bt transgene events. 23. The chairman asked Dr Kranthi not to carry out any further molecular testinll of the samples and only to carry forward the commercialization process with full zeal, adhering to all instructions laid out in the proceedings. 24. The chairman decided that the BN-Bt seeds would be produced only by UAS Dharwad in about 150 acres. UAS Dharwad was also asked to produce 200 quintals of the hybrid 'Bt NHH 44'. Accordingly the seed production was taken up only by UAS Dharwad by the original breeders. 25. Dr B. M. Khadi joined back UAS Dharwad on the 23'" May 2008. 26. Dr K R. Kranthi took over as acting Director of CICR on 24th May 2008. 27. A meeting was held on 12th December 2008 under the Chairmanship of Dr P. L.