 View publication stats 

Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 Available online 1 June 2024 2666-1543/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). Emerging technology adoption for sustainable agriculture in India– a pilot study Rajnish Rakholia a,*, Jinal Tailor a, Mitul Prajapati b, Manan Shah c, Jatinderkumar R. Saini d a S. S. Agrawal Institute of Management and Technology, Devina Park Society, Gandevi Road, Navsari, 396445, Gujarat, India b S. S. Agrawal Institute of Engineering and Technology, Devina Park Society, Gandevi Road, Navsari, 396445, Gujarat, India c Department of Chemical Engineering, School of Energy Technology, Pandit Deendayal Energy University, Gandhinagar, 382426, Gujarat, India d Symbiosis Institute of Computer Studies and Research, Symbiosis International (Deemed University), Pune, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Agriculture Emerging technologies Simple random sample (SRS) Drone Hydroponics Vertical farming A B S T R A C T Agriculture is an extremely important sector in the economic growth of countries. In India, agriculture serves over 70 percent of the country’s population and contributes approximately one-third of the country’s GDP. Agriculture-related problems have continuously acted as a roadblock to the nation’s progress toward its full potential. The only viable solution to this issue is to practice sustainable agriculture, which involves bringing traditional agricultural practices up to date. As a result, the initiative intends to utilise automation and Internet of Things technologies in order to make farming smarter. The main objective of this study is to present outcomes for decision-making for improved productivity, agricultural growth, and sustainability of farms for quality food production and food security. For the purposes of this study, the reference period of the data that will be covered spans from January 2015 to December 2019. The R programming language and the R Studio integrated development environment (IDE) are the tools utilized in the processing and analysis approach. This paper analyzed the underlying factors for the agriculture sector to integrate with emerging technologies. This research study identifies major factors for farmers to adopt new emerging technologies to enhance productivity through improved farming processes. Additionally, it recommends improving infrastructure, expanding internet access to rural areas, and encouraging collaborative platforms to boost agricultural technology innovation and knowledge exchange. 1. Introduction In India, the majority of people make their living in the agricultural and related service sectors. According to the Second Advance Estimates for the year 2022–23, the country’s total foodgrain production is ex­ pected to reach a record 3235.54 lakh tonnes [1]. This figure represents an increase of 79.