 Under such condition, cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan take 300 ml human urine, in which 50 g powder of black cumin (Cupressus sp.) seeds is mixed, and it is boiled for 5 min. After cooling, this solution is drenched to the animal with the help of bamboo pipe thrice a day. This practice is continued up to 3-4 days for complete recovery. Keywords: pneumonia, winter, human urine, black cumin Mrs Pana Bai, W/o Shri Heera Ba, near Kalaji- Goraji, Bhat ji ki Wadi, Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Kailash Bharti, S/o Shri Gheesa Bharti, village Mayapur, Peesangam, Ajmer (Rajasthan) 305 001 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3440 Treatment for pneumonia by using powder of black cumin seed and jaggery 3441 Treatment of cold and fever in animals with smoke of sugar 3442 Use of drumstick bark for treatment of vai (Acetonencea) in buffalo 3443 Use of jaggery to control cold in animals When the animals suffer from pneumonia in winter the cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan grind about 200 g black cumin seeds and mix it with 250-300 g jaggery. Jaggery is taken in liquid form so that the mixture can be drenched through bamboo pipe. This treatment is given thrice a day and continued up to 3-4 days for relief. Keywords: pneumonia, black cumin seed,jaggery About 100 g sugar is burned and its smoke is given twice daily to the affected animal Keywords: cold, fever, sugar, smoke Vai (Acetonemed) is being considered a very dangerous problem of buffaloes. Immediate relief to the suffering animals is needed, otherwise the animals become unable to move; even it becomes difficult for the sick animal to stand itself. It stops feeding partially and becomes very week and may die due to constant sickness. Villagers of Biral of tehsil Shergarh of district Jodhapur in Rajasthan are using this age-old practice. For this treatment, 2- 3 kg green bark of drumstick (Moringa oleifera) is taken and it is chopped properly. It is kept in a utensil and 5 litres water is added to it for boiling, to reduce it to 2 litres. It is filtered and fed to the animal in morning with fodder or any feed. Same dose is repeated in evening for 3 days or continued till the animal is cured. Keywords: vai, buffaloes, drumstick, green bark This ITK is practised in village Maheshpur (Shivsingh) in Bareilly district of Uttar Pradesh. About 1 kg jaggery is given to the affected animal Dr Ranjay K.