 Viability testing of embryonic axes fresh, desiccated, before and after cryopreservation was tested using in vitro method on Murashige and Skoog’s medium supplemented with 1gl-1 activated charcoal, 0.17 gl-1 NaH2PO4, 1mgl-1 each of 6-Benzylaminopurine (BAP) and Naphthalene acetic acid (NAA). Cultures were kept in the dark for two weeks before shifting to the culture room maintained at 25 ± 2°C with a 16 h photoperiod under light intensity of 35 μEm-2 s-1. Growth of embryonic axes was observed after various periods and data on root and shoot regeneration was recorded. Data recorded after 60 days of embryonic axes culture has been presented in the Table 1. Taxonomy and nomenclature Madhuca longifolia (Koenig) Macbr. (syn. M. indica Hamilton ex Gmet.) (syn. M. latifolia Macb.; Bassia latifolia Roxb.) Synonym(s): Madhuca latifolia Macb., Bassia latifolia Roxb., Mahua indica J.F. Gmel. Bassia latifolia Roxb. Cor.Pl. t. 19 ; Fl. Ind. Ii 526 ; Bedd. Fl. Sylv. T 41, - Sans. Madhuka. Region specific vernacular names: Bengali (Mahl and Mohwa), Gujarati (Mohuda, Mahude and Mavd), Hindi (Mahua, Mohwa and Maul), Kannada (Ippahal, Tumbri, Hippa and Honge), Malayalam (Illupa), Marathi (Moho, Mohwa and Mohwra), Oriya (Modgi, Mahula and Moha), Punjabi (Mohwa), Tamil (Illuppai, Elupa and Kat-illipi), Telugu (Ippa, Ippi and Yeppa), English (Butter tree), and Trade name (Mahua). Plant description M. longifolia is a medium to large size deciduous (occasionally shedding leaves), fast growing tree 20 m height. It has a large spreading root system. Wood is hard to very hard with large sap wood. Hardwood is reddish to brown in colour. Tree possesses evergreen or semi- evergreen leaves which cluster near ends of branches, elliptic or elliptic-oblong, pubescent and turn to glabrous at maturity. Young leaves are pinkish red and woolly underneath. Flowers white to cream colour with tubular, fleshy and juicy corolla, clustered at the end of branches. Fruits ovoid berry, green at maturity and turn pinkish yellow when ripe. Fruits are pulpy with large ovoid seeds, number of seeds per fruit varies from 1 to 4. Fruits occur single or in a bunch up to 20-30 in one bunch. Seed is large, 3-4 cm long, elliptical, flattened on one side, seed light brown to black in colour. Most of the leaves fall between February to April and at the same time musky- Diversity collected from different phyto-geographical regions of India in Madhuca. (A). Diversity distribution of Madhuca longifolia. (B). Diversity distribution of M. longifolia var. latifolia.