 Signal transduction and its molecular basis, molecular mechanism of plant hormone action mitochondrial control of fertility, structure, organization and regulation of nuclear gene concerning storage proteins and starch synthesis. Crop genome sequencing projects. Unit 10: Tissue Culture Basic techniques in cell culture and somatic cell genetics. Regulation of cell cycle and cell division. Clonal propagation. Concept of cellular totipotency. Anther culture, somaclonal and gametoclonal variations. Hybrid embryo culture and embryo rescue, somatic hybridization and cybridization. Application of tissue culture in crop improvement. Secondary metabolite production. In vitro, mutagenesis, cryopreservation and plant tissue culture repository. Synthetic seeds, Virus indexing. Unit 11: Plant Genetic Engineering Isolation of genes of economic importance. Gene constructs for tissue-specific expression. Different methods of gene transfer to plants, viz. direct and vector-mediated. Molecular analysis of transformants. RNAi technology. molecular pharming, bioremediation. GM detection methods. Resistance management strategies for target traits. Potential applications of plant genetic engineering for crop improvement, i.e. insect-pest resistance (insect, viral, fungal and bacterial disease resistance), abiotic stress resistance, herbicide resistance, storage protein quality, increasing shelf-life, oil quality, Current status of transgenics, biosafety norms and controlled field trials and release of transgenics (GMOs). Unit 12: Molecular Markers and Genomics DNA molecular markers: Principles, type and applications; restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLP), randomly amplified polymorphic DNA sequences (RAPD), Simple sequence repeats (SSR), Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP), Structural and functional genomics, gene mapping, genome mapping, gene tagging and comparative genomics and application of genomics. Development of mapping population, linkage mapping. association mapping, Phylogeography, conservation genetics. 37 3.4 AGRICULTURAL MICROBIOLOGY Unit 1: History of Microbial World History, development and scope of microbiology, evolution of microbial life. Theory of spontaneous generation. Prokaryotes, archaebacteria and eukaryotes. Techniques used in identification and classification of bacteria. Important groups of prokaryotes – photosynthetic bacteria, blue green algae, chemoautotrophic bacteria, spore forming bacteria, mycoplasma, viruses, bacteriophages and actinomycetes. Heterotrophic bacteria nitrobacteria, nitrogen-fixing bacteria and cyanobacteria, lactic acid bacteria, halophiles, thermophiles acidophiles and methanogens. Structure and classification of viruses, growth of viruses, lytic and lysogenic cycles, plant viruses, viroids. Unit 2: Microbial Ecology and Physiology Principles of microbial ecology, Microbiology of ecosystems - soil, rhizosphere, phyllosphere, water - fresh and marine, and air.