 Process protocol for the preparation of Comminuted Hill lemon fruit juice RTS beverage: The peel of Hill lemon which comprises of 30% of the fruit, holds more ascorbic acid, phenolics, and minerals ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 117 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION lemon juice were tested. Juice per cent of 7 displayed the highest scores for colour (8.2), body (8.0), flavour (8.5), and overall acceptability (8.3). Furthermore, comminuted drink exhibited significantly enhanced antioxidant activity (7.6%) and phenolic content of prepared RTS beverages than the resulting values obtained for RTS drinks made up from of Hill lemon juice (without peel). Process protocol for preparation of jaggery based kulfi: Jaggery based kulfi was prepared by adding full fat milk, jaggery powder, cashews and almond pieces. The mix was heated to attain thick consistency. The mixture was poured into kulfi moulds and kept in a refrigerator (0-4oC for 8-10 h). Nutritional value of 100 g jaggery based kulfi is 698 kcal of energy, 16.6 g of protein, 76.4 g of carbohydrates, 3.94 mg of calcium and 5.2 mg of iron. Five different combinations were prepared, i.e. Jaggery kulfi, Jaggery powder kulfi, Almond jaggery kulfi, Coconut jaggery Kulfi, Custard powder jaggery kulfi. Sensory evaluation was carried out for above five combinations of jaggery based kulfi by using Fuzzy logic concept. Hesperidin and pectin from immature droppings of kinnow The immature droppings of kinnow fruits (IDKF) previously considered as a farm waste, are now being considered of economic importance due to their phytochemical properties. Like other citrus fruits, IDKF is believed to contain considerable amounts of hesperidin, a well-known glycoside that is part of the flavanone subgroup but there is dearth of scientific literature about the quantity and quality of this bioactive compound. A number of properties, viz. antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, anti-tumor, antibacterial, anti-depressant, and neuroprotective activity, protecting the cardiovascular and gastrointestinal systems have been reported for this flavonoid compound. Similarly, IDKF may be a source of pectin, a naturally occurring heteropolysaccharide, generally extracted from kinnow peels. It also shows excellent gel properties and stability and thus finds applications in healthcare, pharmaceutical and food industry. Different solvents DMSO: Ethanol (1:1 v/v), NaOH and HCl, 50% Ethanol, methanol and acidified methanol have been evaluated for extraction of hesperidin. The best results were obtained from acidified methanol having hesperidin and pectin yield of 3.88% and 4.7%, respectively. Extracted Hesperidin Extracted Pectin than fruit segments and is thrown away as waste after processing of fruit. Comminuted Hill lemon fruit juice containing both parts (peel and juice) can be used to enhance functional value of beverages. The process protocol for the preparation of comminuted Hill lemon juice RTS beverage was developed.