2012 -- -- -- * Mandatory Objective(s) page : 15 of 21 Generated on : 30/03/2012 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology Results-Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research and Education -(2012- 2013) Objective 1. Improving natural resource management and input use efficiency Improving natural resource management and input use efficiency with respect to improving soil health and water productivity, integrated nutrient and water management are essential. The action points/ success indicators for INM cover developing GIS based soil fertility maps, macro / micro-level land use plans, developing and disseminating integrated nutrient management packages, technologies for improving the productivity of problem soils, IFS models etc. For facilitating IWM, enhancing water storage and ground water recharge, multiple uses of water, precision/micro- irrigation systems, recycling of wastewater and other on-farm management issues like resource conservation technologies, deficit irrigation, tools and models to support decision making are planned. For mitigating adverse impact of climate change on crops, livestock, horticulture and fisheries, emphasis will specifically be on climate resilient agriculture through identifying the vulnerable zones and mitigating measures through basic and strategic research. In order to improve the capacity of research and developmental organizations and their staff, provision has been made for strengthening them with state of the art technologies through training programmes / field demonstrations etc. Objective 2. Strengthening of higher agricultural education The success will be measured from the indicator the number of universities having developed appropriate e-learning tools and resources. Similarly, Accreditation / Extension of accreditation of agricultural universities will require number of universities granted accreditation / extension of accreditation; Grant of ICAR International fellowships to Indian and foreign students, and JRF and SRF, as applicable, will cover number of such fellowships awarded. However, such numbers of grants will also depend upon the availability of competent candidates for the fellowships. Capacity building and faculty upgradation of teachers will be measured from the number of teachers trained per year. Objective 3. Utilizing frontier research in identified areas / programs for better genetic exploitation The emphasis on natural resource management is laid to ensure efficient use of natural resources under the changing situations. This can be supported by developing high yielding varieties, requiring less input like fertilizers, water and pesticides. With respect to conservation of genetic resources for sustainable use, it is envisaged to conserve plant genetic resources to have repository, evaluation and further utilization of resources for improving yield in a sustainable manner.