 The cases have symbolized the approaches in change of cropping pattern from food crops to cash crops, intensification through intercropping, mixed cropping, diversification into high-value crops and cultivation of more crops in a single parcel of land. There are cases of farmers who have adopted cost reduction and cost-saving mechanisms to boost their savings thus indirectly improving incomes. The document is a tribute to all the hardworking farm families of the nation amidst the rampaging COVID-19 pandemic that hit the economy hard. While most sectors failed to support the livelihoods of those dependent on them, the agriculture sector in those dark days was the silver line that supported everyone who were dependent on it directly and indirectly.  1 HIMACHAL PRADESH Implementing agency : 11 KVKs Number of farm households covered : 1,298 1. Sector-specific interventions 1.1 Field crops y y Promotion of high yielding varieties of wheat (HPW 360 and 368), rice (HPR 2612, US 312, Arize Swift) and maize (Kanchan, Pro Agro 4642, Girija, Bajaura Makka, Palam Sankar Makka 2). y y Integrated management of nutrients, pests and weeds especially the management of white fly and fall armyworm. y y Promotion of precision farming techniques such as drip/ sprinkler irrigation and laser labelling. y y Special capacity building programs for the farmers to handle electronic marketing through popular e-commerce platforms like e-NAM etc. y y Cost reduction through conservation agriculture (organic/ natural farming, direct seeded rice and no till agriculture). 1.2 Horticultural crops y y Large-scale promotion of protected cultivation of fruits (strawberry, muskmelon), vegetables viz., red-yellow capsicum (Orrovill, Asha, Tanvi, Indira), parthenocarpic cucumber (Kyan, Hilton, Isatis) and flowers (gerbera and carnation) especially in mid and low hills. y y Diversification into high value vegetable production especially the off-season tomato (Solan Lalima, Avtar, Abhimanyu), cauliflower, cabbage, onion (Palam Lohit), spinach (Pusa Harit), carrot, okra (P 8), brinjal (Pusa Purple Long and Cluster), cherry tomato (Solan Red Round), capsicum (Solan Bharpoor), peas (G 10, Azad P 1 and P 3, PB 89) and exotic vegetables (broccoli, kale, brussels sprout, asparagus, celery, lettuce and knol-khol). y y Promotion of high and ultra-high-density plantation of apple (M9, MM111, Early Red 1, Gale Gala, King Roat, Adam, Red Lum Gala, Red Kan, Decarli, Mema Gala, Vance Delicious, Super Chief, Gala Val Gala, Fengai Gala, Jeromine, Red Vilox) in higher reaches and mango, citrus and guava in lower hills and plains. y y Delivering latest scientific know-how among the farmers on growing off-season vegetables in mid and high hill regions. y y Promotion of marigold, carnation, chrysanthemum, lilium, gladiolus and gerbera. y y Promotion of pomegranate (Kabuli Kandhari, Kabuli Sindhuri) in areas where apple farming is being abandoned due to climate change.