2 The CSR provides to spend 2% of average net profits (as per section 198 of the Companies Act, 2013) of last 3 years on CSR activities which are carried out for larger public goods, preferably in the local areas where they operate. The term ‘Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR)’ can be referred to as corporate initiative to assess and take responsibility for the company’s effects on the environment and impact on social welfare. The term generally applies to companies efforts that go beyond what may be required by regulators or environmental protection groups. 3.3 The CSR can involve incurring short-term costs that do not provide an immediate financial benefit to the company, but instead promote positive social and environmental change. 3.4 The soul of CSR is that it should be utilized for the activities that have larger public benefits and especially to those who need the corporate hand holdings the most. 3.5 Agriculture being a primary source of livelihood to about 60% of the Indian households enjoys the privileged of being broad based and mass activity. 5 4. Guideline Statement 4.1 The ICAR Guidelines for utilization of CSR Funds 2020 aims at identifying research activities for attracting the CSR funds and facilitate the effective utilization of the obtained funds from the public as well as private companies /enterprises/industry/organizations having no conflicts of interest. 4.2 The funds received from the contributors will be utilized to carry out/enhance/augment various research and farmers outreach activities as per the provisions of MoU/MoA/LoI of ICAR and the Contributor(s); and Government of India guidelines on the subject from time to time. 5. Nature of Donations 5.1 Ministry of Corporate Affairs vide notification G.S.R 776 (E) dated 11-10-2019 amended the specific portions of Schedule VII of the Act to include “ Contribution to incubators funded by Central Government or State Government or any agency or Public Sector Undertaking of Central Government or State Government, and contributions to public funded Universities, Indian Institute of Technology (IITs), National Laboratories and Autonomous Bodies (established under the auspices of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR), Council of Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR), Department of Atomic Energy (DAE), Defence Research and Development Organization (DRDO), Department of Science and Technology (DST), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology) engaged in conducting research in science, technology, engineering and medicine aimed at promoting Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)"as as eligible to approved CSR funding modes mandated under Section 135 of the Act. 6 5.2 ICAR shall follow the provisions of the CSR Rules laid down by the Ministry of Corporate Affairs, Government of India from time to time under the Companies Act, 2013 and its amendments. 5.