 Research for Tribal and Hill Regions icar annual report 2022-23 199 Crop Protection Identification of indigenous entomopatho- genic nematode and its biocontrol potential: Entomopathogenic nematodes (EPNs) are the potential biocontrol agents for the management of wide range of insect-pests. The soil samples collected from district Almora were baited with Corcyra cephalonica and observed regularly for their mortality. The results showed that Heterorhabditis indica isolate VLEPN01 was capable to cause 100% mortality in early instars of fall armyworm (Spodoptera frugiperda), white grub (Holotrichia spp.), bihar hairy caterpillar (Spilosoma obliqua) and tobacco caterpillar (Spodoptera litura) under in-vitro condition. Social Science yy Survey of women farmers of mid hill regions was carried out and their workload and nutritional status along with dietary pattern was studied. The mean MDD-W for the sample was 4±1.03 which was suggestive of inadequate diets, which lacked variety. yy To meet the challenge of ameliorating occupational health of farm women by improving their diets and reducing drudgery, an Information-Education- Communication based strategy to provide the women farmers access to vegetable seeds and information on good nutrition and ergonomic practices to bring change in their behaviour was undertaken. yy After the intervention, 70% of women could attain desired Mean Diversity Score, i.e. above five which means these women were practising inclusion of food from five food groups in their meals, which was earlier achieved by 30% of women only. Improved dietary diversity has the potential to help improve nutrition outcomes in the area. yy Provision of seeds, technical backstopping, educational intervention through planned strategy increased the production of vegetables, improved accessibility to vegetables as per ICMR recommendations, and consumption of the micronutrient-rich vegetables. In the intervention sites, about 73% of families were growing more than 5 vegetables in their plots. Evaluation of PGP consortium (PGP Consortium 5) on yield of different varieties of finger millet yy Household food insecurity access scale (HFIAS) was used and categorized households into four categories of food insecurity severity ranging from food secure to severely food insecure. More than half (53.85%) were secure, 30.77% were mildly unsecure and a few (15.38%) were moderately insecure households. Mildly and moderately secure households were deficient in variety and preferences of the type of food and a few showed anxiety about household food supply. Majority (73.08%) women were having low Dietary Diversity Scores (DDS) (Less than 5) with an average DDS of 4.23. yy Majority of the respondents (56.16%) belonged to the middle age group. About 29.55% of the respondents were educated up to high school. Majority of the respondents (61.08%) belonged to nuclear family, whereas 38.92% of them were from joint families. About 49.