 SUMMARY Ad opting a production system with greater productivity, water- and nutrient-use efficiency is of utmost importance in the present scenario of burgeoning population, food demand and water scarcity. Drip system which is in current practice seems to be costlier for the near future with respect to input use efficiency. Therefore, evolution of a production system that could save water, enhance crop performance and increase the farmers’ net returns is the absolute necessity. Wick system which exploits the capillary action principle is identified as one such system with higher crop water productivity, crop growth, enhanced yield and quality along with lesser impact on the soil structure. Hence, it could be highly remunerative and economical if employed as an alternative for drip system in the gerbera flower production. For further information, please write to: Dr Sangeetha Priya S, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: sangee1136@gmail.com Stalk length of gerbera under drip (right) and wick system (left) higher organic matter production and instant nutrient availability in the soil. This could be attributed to the better air exchange and soil adhesion properties. Greater porosity, volume of expansion and water holding capacity in wick system might be associated with the enhanced root growth and nutrient absorption. The physical properties of the soil were not greatly influenced Infestation of lesser grain borer on roasted makhana seeds under storage The internal stored grain insect (lesser grain borer), Rhizopertha dominica (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae) was found infesting on the roasted makhana seeds of 3 standard size grades, i.e. 7 mm, 9 mm and 11 mm. It was recorded that insects preferred to feed on 11 mm size seeds, followed by 9 mm and 7 mm, respectively. Both grub and adult stages were able to cause substantial damage. The adult laid the eggs on the seeds by entering inside the kernels through the apical natural opening. The average temperature and relative humidity for R. dominica development was maintained as 32.5 ± 1°C and 70 ± 5°C, respectively. It took 35–50 days for completing its life cycle, which included four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Females laid about 200–500 eggs in their lifetime, singly. Incubation period lasted for 5±0.3–9±0.4 days, while larval and pupal period took 30±5 and 8±2 days, respectively. Mean longevity of adult male and female was 26 and 17 weeks, respectively. The damage potential was assessed using the artificial infestation (purposive samples) with different numbers of tested insect. The study indicated that significant loss of roasted makhana seeds during 15 days of storage with 40±1.24% losses, caused by 10 adults per 100g seeds. The total quantitative losses observed for 6 months storage period was 64±1.16% in the samples with 10 adults per 100g of roasted makhana seeds. The initial losses were very high and became slow after 20 days.