, root knot, cyst, ear cockle, reniform, burrowing, citrus and a few other agriculturally important nematodes has been established. • Avoidable yield losses in a few crops up to 60% have been estimated due to high populations of plant parasitic nematodes through multi‐location field experiments in crops depending upon initial nematode population and cropping systems followed under different agro‐climatic zones of the country. • More than 15,000 germplasms, accessions/varieties in rice, pulses, vegetables, cotton, groundnut, citrus, grapevine etc. have been screened for resistance against key nematode pests which has enabled to identify, develop and confirm a few sources of resistance in different crops. CROP NEMATODE RESISTANT VARIETIES Tomato Root‐knot nematodes (Meloidogyne javanica/Meloidogyne incognita) PNR‐7, NT‐3, NT‐12, Hisar Lalit Chilli Root‐knot nematodes (Meloidogyne javanica/Meloidogyne incognita) NP‐46A, Pusa Jwala, Mohini Cowpea Root‐knot nematodes (Meloidogyne javanica/Meloidogyne incognita) GAU‐1 Mungbean Root‐knot nematodes (Meloidogyne javanica/Meloidogyne incognita) ML‐30 and ML‐62 Cotton Meloidogyne incognita Bikaneri nerma, Sharda, Paymaster Grapevine Root‐knot nematodes (Meloidogyne javanica/Meloidogyne incognita) Khalili, Kishmish Beli, Banquabad, Cardinal, Early Muscat, Loose Perlett Potato Potato cyst nematode (Globodera rostochiensis) Kufri Swarna www.icar.org.in 75 2002 ‐ 2007 CROP VARIETIES IDENTIFIED/DEVELOPED RESISTANT TO PLANT PARASITIC NEMATODES • Inclusion of non‐host/resistant varieties (viz. garlic, onion, Hisar Lalit variety of tomato and Sreebhadra of sweet potato etc. in vegetable based cropping systems has led to reduction in population of root‐knot nematodes and enhancement of yield. • Role of cropping systems and soil fertility on community structure, biodiversity and population dynamics of plant parasitic as well as other soil inhabiting nematodes under different agro‐climatic conditions of the country has been investigated. • Pest risk analysis for major nematode pests in Indian agricultural are investigated. • Computerized databases of nematode resistance and distribution have been developed. Technologies demonstrated: • Low cost eco‐friendly and practically feasible integrated nematode management technologies have been developed and demonstrated against economically important nematode pests at farmer’s fields. These are: • The rice root knot nematode (Meloidogyne graminicola) and rice root nematode (Hirschmanniella spp.) can be managed by treatment of nursery‐beds with carbofuran @ 0.1 g a.i./ m2 and field application of carbofuran @ 1 kg a.i./ha after 40 days of transplanting. • Soil solarization of the nursery‐bed area using a 100 gaze transparent polythene sheet for 2‐4 weeks in summer and application of carbofuran @ 0.3 g a.i/ m2 before sowing could provide nematode‐free seedlings of transplanted crops like vegetables, fruits, and ornamentals etc.