 Interventions ‘Multi-layer Farming’ was an initiative to increase the income, ensure nutritional security, and environmental sustainability of tribal families of Chhattisgarh under the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP). Multilayer farming was one of the major interventions under horticulture based module for tribal farmers. It is a very good remunerative technique under space time dimension. This programme will provide opportunity to tribal farmers to modify lands for multi-layer farming through fruit trees, cash crops, and forest trees for higher net return and soil water conservation to ensure sustainability. Under FFP, training programme related to multi-layer Indian Farming 9 November 2024 farming were continuously conducted to encourage the farmers and farm women. Demonstrations were also conducted at 30 farmers field with a farm size of 0.15 ha. The primary input used for multilayer farming was hybrid and improved seeds of various crops i.e. bitter gourd (Nanha), brinjal (Black dimond), chilli (NS 2572), bottle gourd (Nitya priti), sem (Megha), turmeric (CG Haldi 01), leafy vegetables, bamboo stick, GI pole, wire and low cost constructed shed provided under the FFP in five villages i.e. Muretitola, Kaudikasa, Arajkund, Netamtola and Bhagwantola. The study revealed that Bottle gourd + Chilli + Leafy vegetables system was remunerative under multi-layer farming system (Table 1). CONCLUSION Multilayer farming epitomizes a sustainable approach to agriculture. It addresses the challenges faced by marginal and small farmers in terms of limited land resources, and deprivation of resources like irrigation. It is an innovation to evaluate the agricultural practices and opens a new door for farmers to earn whole round the year with low risk of loss or failure of crop. Good amount of returns can be earned through this system, where production can be increased by interventions at least 2 to 3 times than traditional farmers practices. Small farmers must be the focus of study due to uncertain climate change and uncertain agriculture. There is a need to create awareness about the usefulness of multilayer cropping over solo cropping. This can be done by involving active participation by both public and private institutions including farmers’ organizations at local, regional, and global levels. *Corresponding author email: abhay_horti@yahoo.co.in Table 1. Economics of different vegetable grown in multilayer farming system Crop/Indicator Farmers' practice Intervention Bottle gourd (q/0.018 ha) 2.05 3.95 Chili (q/0.018 ha) 3.70 4.89 Sem (q/0.018 ha) 1.20 1.85 Turmeric (q/ha) 60.10 89.25 Bitter guard (q/ha) 117.40 138.10 Brinjal (q/0.08 ha) 7.60 12.96 Leafy vegetable (q/0.01 ha) 1.20 1.