 Farmers could transplant seedlings of Chilli (Swarna prafullya), Brinjal (Swarna shyamali, Swarna Pratibha), Tomato (Swarna sampada, Swarna Lalima, Swarna Bhaibhav, Arka Samrat), Onion (Arka niketan), Sponge gourd (Swarna prabha), Ridge gourd ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 197 (Swarna manjari, Swarna sawani- Satputia), planting distance should be Chilli and Brinjal- 50X50 cm., Tomato- 60X40cm., Sponge and Ridge gourd 2X0.5 meter and Onion- 10X15 cm. distance. Dip the roots of seedlings in Bavistein solution for half an hour before planting. Prepare seedlings of Capsicum (Swarna atulya) and Cucumber (Swarn sheetal) in poly house. Onion -High yielding varieties of onion are Pusa red, Arka Niketan, Agrifound dark red, Patna white, Bellary red etc. 40 days old seedlings can be sown maintaining 15 cm distance between rows and 10 cm between plants. Dip roots of seedlings in Trichoderma solution (5 gm/L) for 5-6 hrs before planting. If wilting of young leaves (and in roots) followed by whole plant (Fusarium wilt) is seen apply recommended dose of potash fertilizer and remove affected plants. Arrangement of honey-bee boxes for effective pollination in litchi, mango orchards and other vegetable crops. New young plants should be protected from frost. Irrigation to new plants should be assured to minimize the frost damage. February Potato - In early maturing varieties 15to20 days before digging up, remove top leaves to allow the tubers to harden. For storage of potato storage houses with clay terracotta roofing is best, potato could be stored in earthen flooring of pit dug half footdeep insulated with straw. Grading of potato tubers is an important constraint in marketing process, farmers should grade their potato into four categories <25gm., 25-50 gm., 50-75 gm. And >75 gm. Cabbage and cauliflower- For cabbage and cauliflower sow prepared seedlings in rows 60 cm. apart and 40 cm. distance between plants. Dip roots of seedlings in Trichoderma solution (5 gm/L) for 5-6 hrs before planting. Sow seedlings of Chilli (Swarna prafullya), Brinjal (Swarna shyamali, Swarna Pratibha), Tomato (Swarna Sampada, Swarna ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 198 Lalima, Swarna Bhaibhav, Arka Samrat), planting distance should be Chilli and Brinjal-50X50 cm., Tomato- 60X40 cm. Dip the roots of seedlings in Trichoderma or Bavistein solution for half an hour before planting. High yielding varieties of bushy French bean are Pant Anupama, Swarna Priya, Swarna Harita, Arka Komal. Sow seed in rows at 40 cm row to row distance and 10cm plant to plant, seed rate Irrigate the field as per requirement or once every week. High yielding varieties of cowpea are Swarn Mukut, Kashi kanchan, Arka Garima, Pusa Komal etc. Seed to be sown at 30 cm. and 15 cm spacing row to row. plant to plant should be maintained. Seed required for one acre is 15 to 20 Kg. Iirrigation should be given as required or once in a week.