 Farmers and entrepreneurs can set up their own processing State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 125 units by adopting simple, low cost innovative processing technologies which will save post- harvest losses of these perishable crops and also give good returns to grower and better earning to processor / entrepreneurs. The Value Addition activities where the fruits and vegetables are processed, fetches higher remunerative prices of the produce. Such opportunities are presently not available in rural areas but could be created through selective mechanization of agriculture and appropriate postharvest management and value addition to the harvested biomass in the production catchments. The agricultural produce involves operations like cleaning, grading, drying, storage, milling, packaging, transport, marketing and utilization. At the end of each operation, value is added to the product. The lowest and the highest monetary values of a food commodity are respectively, when it is in raw and fresh form and when it is in processed and ready to consume/eat form. Postharvest and food processing technology are commodity and location specific. It prevents avoidable postharvest losses and add value to the fresh agro-produces. It also creates opportunities for employment and income generation. Integration of production agriculture with on-farm primary processing is needed to have sustainable production, higher productivity and better quality end products for domestic and export markets. It would help in reducing rural- urban disparity and ensuring household food and nutritional security for all at an affordable cost. Apiculture Beekeeping has emerged an important employment generation vocation, especially for landless youth because for this dedicated land is not required. The bee hives can be kept at the side of road, canal, bare lands and bunds of fields. It can be started with 20 bee colony at a cost of Rs. 5,000 per colony. The equipment honey extractor, hive tool, uncapping tray and knife are easily available and are cheaper. Beekeeping is a decentralized, forest and rural agriculture based industry, which requires very less raw material. The raw material needed is in the form of nectar and pollen, which is freely available from flowers in nature. Bee hives neither demand additional land space nor do they compete with agriculture or animal husbandry for any input. The beekeeper only needs to spare a few hours in a week to look after his bee colonies. Beekeeping is therefore ideally suited to him as a part time occupation. Beekeeping constitutes a resource of sustainable income generation to the rural and tribal farmers. It also provides them valuable nutrition in the form of honey. However, in addition to honey, production of bees wax, propolis, pollen, royal jelly, pedigree queen bees, package bees and renting out honey bee colonies for crop pollination are some of the potential areas of apicultural diversification in India.