 CIPHET, Ludhiana is projecting adoption of food/agro processing as rural industry to reduce post-harvest losses, transportation cost and drudgery, along with increased shelf life of agricultural produce. ABI centre at ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana is showcasing the working with modern food processing industries and technologies developed by CIPHET on Pilot scale to facilitate Entrepreneurship Development Programme, enthuse new entrepreneurs towards profitability of food processing units, and extend support even after adoption of technologies. Working model of ABI CIPHET-ABI Centre helps the clienteles in decision making through a questionnaire consisting of technology development stages, project viability, maturity cycle and resource requirements. For successful implementation of the project, the centre provides support for project reports consisting of all necessary aspects such as technical, financial, commercial and operational strategies. Clients and their team members are provided training to obtain, improve, and retain the skills, knowledge, tools, equipment, and other resources needed to adopt the particular technology and do their jobs competently. Logistics support in terms of providing well furnished, air- conditioned office spaces for the Clients to set up their office, ICAR- CIPHET also provides access to its commercial pilot plant facilities such as tomato processing plant, chilli Technological mentoring Capacity building & training Incubation services Business development support Funding facilitation Intellectual property management Indian Farming January 2020 62 processing plant, kinnow processing plant etc. Thus, incubatees can take up commercial production using the machineries and instruments set up in the Pilot plant, without setting up a facility of their own, until successful test marketing phase. In addition with this, the Centre provides assistance and guidance to incubates in obtaining statutory approvals, registration, licenses, certifications etc at the time of start of business enterprise. The centre also provides assistance in the development and formulation of a product brand and provides support regarding intellectual property rights through Patent Attorney. The Centre promotes the incubatee products through the Institute’s social media, websites, publications and showcase them in national and state level exhibitions, industry meets etc. SUCCESS STORY Following start-ups have been started after taking incubation facility under the guidance of ABI, ICAR- CIPHET Ludhiana Mr Japinder Wadhawan, young and budding mechanical engineer approached CIPHET Ludhiana for training and incubation on design and manufacturing of agro processing machines. He was admitted for incubation during 2019-20. After getting incubation from ABI CIPHET the incubate started his own start up in the brand name of M/S Raftaar Start up with the financial assistance of MSME for manufacturing of agro processing machineries.