 However, the total productivity of rice-wheat system was higher under direct seeded rice with puddled condition (9.3 tonnes/ha) followed by transplanted (9.10 tonnes/ha) and direct seeded dry condition (8.99 tonnes/ha). A New Technique for Rapid Decomposition of Rice Straw Developed A technique for rapid decomposition of rice straw employing pre-treatment followed by composting for 21 days was developed to prepare quality manure at Modipuram. Rice straw alone, or in combination with pigeonpea hull (4 : 1), was treated with aqeous solution containing 1.25% urea, 1.25% ZnSO4, 0.625% FeSO4 and 0.0625% CuSO4 in the first step for 48 hours for altering the lignocellulosic complex of the rice straw. In the 2nd stage, the treated materials were composted for 21 days. Pre-treatment followed by composting helped in lowering the C : N ratio of the substrate and improving the quality of compost in terms of N, P and K content. The highest response was obtained in the mixture of treated rice straw + pigeonpea hull (4 : 1). l Efficient cropping systems for different agro-ecozones have been identified. l The total productivity of rice-wheat system was higher (9.3 tonnes/ha) under direct seeded puddled condition rice. l At Modipuram, a technique for rapid decomposition of rice straw using pre- treatment followed by composting was developed to prepare superior manure. Rice-wheat system was more remunerative under direct seeded rice with puddled condition (9.3 tonnes/ha) than transplanted rice (9.10 tonnes/ha) NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 85 l The CAZRI, Jodhpur, has developed an upgraded design of khadin for different ecological sub-zones of the arid ecosystem. l Maru Sena 3, a bioformulation of the biocontrol agent Bacillus firmus against Macrophomina phaseolina developed. M. phaseolina causes dry root-rot and charcoal-rot in clusterbeen, cowpea, mothbean, greengram, etc. l Management of Parthenium weed accomplished through Mexican beetle has been a tremendous success. l Intercropping of cowpea in maize suppresses weeds and supplements nitrogen. Production of inhibition zone and scarlet pigmentation by the biocontrol agent Bacillus firmus against Macrophomina phaseolina, a causative bacterium of root-rot and charcoal-rot in clusterbean, cowpea, mothbean, greengram, etc. The CAZRI, Jodhpur, has developed a bioformulation of B. firmus Maru Sena 3. ARID ECOSYSTEM Khadin: Novel System for Drought Proofing Khadin is an age old unique practice of water harvesting and moisture conservation in arid lands for raising a successful crop, even during drought years. In this system runoff is collected from upland and rocky surfaces in the adjoining valley by enclosing a segment with an earthen bund. The CAZRI, Jodhpur, has developed an improved design of khadin for different ecological sub-zones of the arid ecosystem. One such improved khadin farm of 6 ha is located in Baorli-Bambore watershed.