 The samples for grow out test is to be drawn simultaneously by the seed supplier and the seed recipient by following the standard procedure. In a lot of 100 q, 250 seed potato tubers are drawn by each party along with tag having details of source of seed, variety and lot number. Grow out test is performed by growing the sample seed tubers in the next crop season as per standard package of practices. During this test, observation on germination, morphological characters and incidence of viruses are recorded to ascertain their genetic purity. For further interaction, please write to: Dr R K Singh Dr R K Singh Dr R K Singh Dr R K Singh Dr R K Singh (Principal Scientist & Head), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171001, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: rjan_1971@yahoo.co.in November–December 2019 59 Salej Sood, Vinay Bhardwaj, Hemant Kardile and Dalamu P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s P r o s p e c t s A MONG the world’s ten most important crops, potato has largest number of wild relatives. Genebanks worldwide maintain wild potato relatives along with potato cultivars and genetic stocks. These facilities provide a rich resource for potato breeders and other plant and crop scientists. At present, ICAR- CPRI, Shimla has 762 Andigena accessions and 482 accessions of over 100 wild and semi-cultivated species.Wild species are reservoir of genes which are not available in cultivated potato and are rich source of stress resistance and tuber quality genes. Wild species in potato improvement Potato breeders have turned to wild relatives as sources of disease resistance and improved tuber quality. The introgression of a few specific genes from wild species has had a significant impact on cultivar development. An understanding of hybridization barriers and the development of strategies to overcome these barriers have allowed breeders to access the potato germplasm resource. Breeders have focussed on introducing diploid wild germplasm into cultivated potato at the diploid level, with the goal of returning to the tetraploid level for cultivar development. Although recently there is growing interest in diploid breeding and hybrid diploid cultivars. Solanum tuberosum Andigenum group has been an important source of genes for cultivated potato improvement. There are many notable examples of cultivated potato improvement through genes contribution from wild species. Wild species for resistance breeding: The wild species mainly used in resistance breeding include Solanum acaule, S. chacoense, S. demissum, S. brevicaule, S. stoloniferum and S. vernei mainly as sources of major genes for resistance to late blight, viruses, and potato cyst nematodes. The initial attempts to use wild species were transfer of R1, R2 and R3 late blight resistance genes from Solanum demissum in the cultivar Pentland Dell. Later on RB, a dominant resistance gene from S.