 Lute khanew tree leaves were used as herbal feed additives to manipulate rumen fermentation for reducing ruminal methanogenesis for efficient utilization of dietary energy to improve productivity of ruminant animals. Ruminal gas and methane production was lowered (P<0.05) when 25, 50 and 100 mg of control substrate (contained 60% paddy straw and 40% concentrate mixture) was replaced by Nevaro or Lute khanew or Thotne tree leaves. However, lowest gas and methane production were observed due to inclusion of Lute khanew (Ficus clavata) tree leaves as feed additive in the control substrate. The anti-methanogenic activity of Lute khanew tree leaves was higher than Nevaro and Thotne tree leaves. There was a reduction of 24.7, 45.21 and 64.5% in methane production per g digested dry-matter when 25, 50 and 100 mg control substrate was replaced by Lute khanew tree leaves, respectively. The Lute khanew tree leaves may be used as herbal feed additives to manipulate rumen fermentation for reducing ruminal methanogenesis for efficient utilization of dietary energy to improve productivity of ruminant animals. Lute khanew (Ficus clavata) The highest nitrate and nitrite reduction was observed with RM 220 characterized as Selenomonas ruminantium OK605906. A reduction of 16% per unit of DDMI in methane production with 2% nitrate supplementation was found in vitro; however, supplementation of nitrate reducing bacterial cultures either daily or alternate week have not exerted any extra effects on methane reduction and performance of buffaloes. Water footprint analysis of cattle and buffalo: Water footprint was assessed for lactating Vrindavani, Tharparkar and Sahiwal cows and Murrah buffaloes. In lactating animals, consumptive water usages (CWUs) for washing of covered area of sheds differed significantly between the species and breeds of the animals. The total consumptive water use (total of all the CWUs from direct and indirect water consumption) of lactating Vrindavani cows was significantly higher Climate Resilient Agriculture icar annual report 2022-23 146 900 q/ha from August-November and 120-70q/ha from December-February. Suitable for cultivation all-round the year. Identified by Institute Technology Identification Committee. Proposal for release and notification submitted to U.P. State Government in April 2022. Simulation studies using InfoCrop Potato Model: For developing adaptation strategies against climate change for Madhya Pradesh, the model showed that under RCP 4.5 yield of Kufri Jyoti could be improved by 5.9% in 2030, 5.5% in 2050 and 4.3% 2080 future climate scenario over the farmer’s practice, when irrigation (50 mm each) was applied at 5 days interval along with N application @180 kg/ha. MaxEnt’ model was used to evaluate the bioclimatic variables determining the regions suitable for coconut cultivation and to predict the regions with potentially suitable climate under future climate conditions.