 Genome sequencing of microbes of microbial- retting consortium: To be suitable for high valued diversified products, the quality of jute fibre needs further improvement through efficient retting process with a microbial-consortium ‘CRIJAF SONA’. Genome sequences of these jute retting microbes have been carried by ICAR-CRIJAF, Barrackpore. The in-depth genomic analysis significantly revealed three different species of Bacillus constitute the consortium strains. The genome sizes of these strains are ~3.8 Mb with 3729 to 4002 protein coding genes. The sequence data has been submitted to the National Centre for Biotechnology for degrading pectin, hemicellulose and other non- cellulosic materials can be altered for enhanced retting efficiency and shortening the retting duration with minimal water usage. This will also open up an avenue to characterize the enormous diversity of retting microbial population at the metagenome scale and incorporate other strains to complement the consortium. Reconstruction of pectin biosynthesis pathways in jute: Pectin is the primary target of pathogenic microbes attacking jute plant and the microbial community during the retting of jute. Understanding pectin biosynthesis pathway can help in modulation of the pathways to increase plant defense and selection of appropriate microorganism to accelerate the retting process. The pectin biosynthesis pathways were resolved for the first time in a fibre crop from a bast transcriptome resource of jute. Three major routes, UDP-sugar interconversion, GDP-sugar interconversion and salvage pathways are operational in both C. olitorius and C. capsularis that employ 17 genes to synthesis the precursors of pectin polymers. It was observed that the pectin biosynthesis pathways are well-conserved in higher plants, particularly in species where special pectic polysaccharides (mucilage) are produced. The metabolic flux of pectin biosynthesis is driven towards more-complex rhamnogalacturonan (RG) pectin formation in C. olitorius. The salvage pathways ensured a continuous supply of UDP-Rhamnose in C. olitorius, making its pectin more enriched with RG compared to that of C. capsularis. Hence priority should be given to identify RG-degrading microorganisms for faster retting of jute fibre. Identification of resistant sources against fall armyworm (FAW). (A) Genotype screening plots, (B) Artificial release of FAW neonates at 5–6 leaf stage and (C) Screening of DMRE 63 under no-choice condition. A B C Information (NCBI) database of NIH, USA. Genome sequencing also confirms that retting bacteria degrades pectin, hemicellulose and other non-cellulosic materials, non-harmful for fibre. The bacterial strains are also non- toxic and thus the retting water with microbial strains can successfully be used for irrigation purpose. The genes Seed Production Breeder seed production: During 2020–21, total breeder seed production in field crops was 1,15,517.2 q against the indent of 80,938.8 q.