 Similarly, gender mainstreaming, outscaling of farmers’ innovations, farmers’ participatory approach, and institutional change for higher efficiency has been corner stones of research approach of ICAR. In other words, the Council has followed the principles of Mahatma Gandhi to make Indian agriculture prosperous, empower farmers, and strengthen village institutions. The efforts made by the Krishi Vigyan Kendras to develop skills of rural women and small farmers, and to provide services at the doorstep of farmers have contributed to the Gandhian vision. This publication documents the major contributions of ICAR to promote sustainable development, technological empowerment of people in inaccessible areas, enhance value of farm produce, and promote rural livelihood options. Conservation of biodiversity, soil and water, yield improvement of millets in hill areas, improvement of indigenous cattle, goat development, support for fishermen, and food processing options for households are some of the notable examples. viii I compliment ICAR for bringing out this publication that shall be useful for policy makers and public agencies to take the task of agriculture and rural development on the Gandhian way. This is the need of the hour when there is weakening of the values of rural communities and rising pressure on natural resources. Trilochan Mohapatra Secretary, DARE and DG, ICAR Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi ix preface In 2020 India celebrates the 150th birth anniversary of Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi, the ‘Mahatma’ and ‘Father of the Nation’. He was a leader, politician, saint, philosopher, thinker, writer, social reformer and educationist who worked for the masses and with the masses. His plain living and high thinking inspired millions of people in India and abroad. Gandhiji devoted his life for upliftment of the poor, downtrodden, untouchables and the last man of the society. With the struggle and efforts of Gandhiji, the “dumb millions” found their voice; the disinherited recovered their heritage and the disarmed won a great battle with moral force. Truthfulness and non-violence were the corner stones of his thinking, philosophy and personality. The whole world celebrates the United Nations International Day of Non-violence on October 2nd each year, the Mahatma’s birthday, to pay homage and respect to this great man. To the Mahatma, true independence meant wiping every tear from the face of every Indian. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with sound scientific and spiritual values. He firmly believed that “India lives and will live in her villages, not in towns; in huts, not in palaces. If village perishes, India will perish too’’. He asserted that the only way of bringing the progress and prosperity to India is development of rural economy, industry and skills. For Gandhiji, the farmer was the central point for development and sustainable social order.