 Yellow variety of maize is richer in beta-carotin than white ones. Maize is good source of tocopherols with gama-tocopherol as the predominant component. An enzyme associated with starch granules, ADP glucose-starch glucosyl transferase, is present in the endosperm of maize seeds. The principle constituents of maize herbs are cellulose and hemicellulose. Maize oil may be used with linseed oil as paint material. Sulphonated maize oil finds application in tannin and processing of leather. In India maize oil is used for the manufacture of soap. Maize is a highly valued as green fodder, silage or grain in animal feeding. Maize silk (styles with stigmas) possess chlorotic, diuretic and astringent properties. stigmas) is reported to possess chlorotic, diuretic and astringent properties. Robust, monocious annual grass though generally tall, varies in height from 0.43 m to sometimes over 6 m in different varieties and regional types. Maize is extensively cultivated in India, both in the plains and in the hills or specially in the areas with hot summer. Maize growing states are Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Punjab. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 389 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 261 Zingiber officinale Ginger H-Adrak B-Ada M-Ale Tel-Sonthi T-Allam Kan-Hasisunti Mal-Inchi Ginger contains small quantities of glucose and sucrose. The principle carbohydrate of rhizome is starch. The free amino acids present in ginger include glutamic acid, aspartic acid etc. The characteristic pleasant and aromatic odour of ginger, is due to an essential oil. The oil contains sesquiterpeaes hydrocarbons (50% or more), sesquiterpeas alcohol. monoterpenoids and assaciatee compounds. The pungency of ginger is due to olioresin known as gingerin. Green ginger is the raw rhizome and substantial quantities of it are locally used as a continent in culinary preparation, some quantities are also utilized in the preperation of pickle and canned ginger and soft drinks like ginger cock tail or gingerella. A herbaceous, rhizomatus prennial reaching upto 90 cm in height under cultivation. Rhizomesar aromatic, thick robed pale yellow, differing in shape and size in the different cultivated types. The important ginger growing states are Orissa, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh. 262 Zizyphus jujuba - H-Pitniber P-Amlai K-Phitni Fruits are credited with emollient and pectorals properties. The leaves are laxative and prescribed in scabies and throat troubles. The fruits and leaves are also used for fodder. The fruits of the wild plants are considered cooling, anodyne and tonic. They are used externally in poultices and application for wounds. Deciduous tree upto 12 m in height, sometime large bush, found both cultivated and naturalized in Punjab.