 It is also found that as the soil depth increases, quality of water improves further in terms of pH, EC, TDS, BOD, DO, turbidity, calcium, phosphates, chlorides, and bicarbonates. • The model DRASTIC (Depth to water table, Recharge, Aquifer media, Soil media, Topography (slope), impact of vadose zone, hydraulic Conductivity of aquifer) was used in order to assess the groundwater pollution potential of Ludhiana district. Aquifer media, soil media thematic maps for the period from 1995 to 2002 were prepared. Thematic maps of impact of vadose zone, hydraulic conductivity parameter and Nitrate Pollution Potential Index (NPPI) were also prepared. • Groundwater pollution study by Poondi center showed that most of the water samples of Vellore district of Tamil Nadu fall in medium salinity group that can be used for irrigation with some precautions. Reasonable water samples have magnesium toxicity that needs special attention; otherwise the groundwater of the areas is of good to marginally accepted quality from irrigation point of view. Theme V: Water lifting devices. • At Ludhiana center, a propeller pump has been designed for operation using 35 hp tractor at 3.5 m head. Also a split flap type valve for protection of centrifugal pump was developed. The split flap valve is to be fitted on the delivery pipe any where in between the pump (preferably near the pump) and the delivery point and was tested in farmers field. • Performance evaluation of hydraulic ram for different lengths of drive pipe, weights of waste valve and delivery valve was taken up at Pantnagar center and suitable dimensions have been decided. Empirical relationships were developed among L/D ratio, weight of waste valve and maximum discharge, beat frequency, weight of waste value and maximum discharge for 5 cm x 2.5 cm hydram. Similarly relationship has been found among weight of waste valve, weight of delivery valve and discharge for 10 cm x 5 cm hydram. www.icar.org.in 76 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • Field evaluation of irrigation pumping Units were taken up at Jabalpur center to make status survey of irrigation pumps for evaluation of operating efficiency; to identify deficient pumping units and analysis of causes of efficiency deterioration; rectification to improve the operating efficiency at selected sites and testing of pumping units after adopting rectification measures. It was observed that 6% of the total energy is lost due to excessive suction head and 10% due to poor maintenance and poor foundation each. It has been concluded that approximately 10% pumps are affected by each of the above problems. It is clearly depicted from the following projection that a considerable amount (2.5%) of total energy consumption in the entire state (MP) is being lost. It was also observed that discharge of pumps varied from 4.48‐12.07 1ps, while the efficiency ranged between 16.10% to 56.80%.