 Subramaniyan, Assistant Professor (Dairy Science and Animal Husbandry Extension), Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kundrakudi, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 206 Location of use of the ITK : Aandi Orrani, Kalayarkoil, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 551 Geographical indicators : Azadirachta indica Common name : Neem Botanical name : Azadirachta indica Family : Meliaceae Description It is grown throughout India. The parts are used medicinally as follows: Fruit - Antiperiodic, anthelmintic, astringent, emollient, purgative and tonic. Seed oil - Antiseptic, locally used in eczema and leprosy, in common dermatosis and in rheumatism. Kernal oil is known as neem oil. Possesses antifertility, antifungal, antimicrobial and antiseptic properties. Active against both gram positive and gramnegative organisms.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY External application for rheumatism and sprain. Flowers - Stomachic and tonic Leaves - Antifungal, antiperiodic, antiseptic and antiviral. Applied in the form of poultice in boils, abscesses, eczema and ulcers. Bark - Antiemetic, antiperiodic, anthelmintic, astringent. Twigs - Used as toothbrush for anti pyrorrhoeal. Kernels - Oil of Margosa contains tocopherol, arachidic, linoleic, margosic myristic, oleic, palmitic and stearic acids, azadirone, azadiradione, epixyazodiradine (nimbinin). Nimbidin is the bitter principle of the oil. Sesamum indicum Common name : Gingelly Botanical name : Sesamum indicum Family : Pedaliaceae Seeds - Demulcent, diuretic, emollient, lactagogue laxative and tonic. Seeds contains tocopherol. Poultice - applied to burns, scalds and ulcers. Oil (from seeds) used as a base for many perfumed oil meant for hair. Equal parts of sesame oil and limewater find useful application as dressing for burns, scald and suppurating wounds. Leaves - External applied in cutaneous and ophthalmic complaints demulcent and emollient. Leaves contains pedaliin. Flowers - Arginine, cystine, histidine, isoleucine, leucine, lysine, methionine, phenylalanine threonine, tryptophane, tyrosine, valine a and ß globulin, P-amino benzoic acid ascorbic acid, biotin, choline, folic acid inositol, niacin, nicotinic acid pantothenic acid, pyridoxine, riboflavin sesamol, thiamin, a and ß tocophenols galactose, glucose, lychnin, plantiose raffinose, sesamose, sucrose and pentosans. Seeds - oil (from seeds) used as a base for many perfumed oil meant for hair, equal parts of sesame oil and lime water find useful application as dressing for burns, scald and suppurating wounds. Seeds contain a tocopheriol poultice  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY applied to burns, scalds and ulcers. Flowers - contains essential amino acids, B groups of vitamins and carbohydrates. Liquid paraffin - emollient and laxative in action. Boric acid - weak germicidal, more bacteriostatic in action Antiseptic Glycerin - glycerol, Glycerium; emollient, demulcent, antiseptic, solvent and vehicle externally.