 However, there are particular concerns in deploying low-cost sensors, especially requiring frequent calibration to test their field applicability and performance consistency. Velmurugan et al. [135] presented an open-source SIS to predict irrigation requirements. The authors used soil moisture, climate conditions, and weather forecast data from the internet as input data sources. They concluded that the proposed algorithm uses the sensors’ collected recent and past data and the weather-predicted data to forecast soil moisture in the upcoming days. Keswani et al. [136] designed a real-time weather Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 18 of 40 conditions monitoring system using an IoT-enabled SIS. They reported that the irrigation valve control commands were generated successfully with a fuzzy logic climate model to fulfill uniform farm irrigation requirements in almost all weather conditions. Wasson et al. [137] presented an IoT-based weather monitoring system that monitors and analyzes the soil’s agro-metrology data and moisture content, using different weather-based sensors interfaced with wireless communication standards for real-time data transfer and web-based services. In addition, the greenhouse gas (GHG) effect is the natural process of radiation trapping, where the Earth absorbs short-wave radiations and emits long-wave radiations. GHG absorbs most of this thermal radiation, increasing the Earth’s climate parameters over time [138] [. Solar energy naturally warms the earth’s surface as it receives it directly. However, many GHGs are emitted annually into the atmosphere due to industrial activities, fossil fuel combustion, widespread deforestation, biomass burning, land-use change, and land management practices. The rise in GHG concentrations concerns the global scientific community due to its potential to increase the Earth’s average climate parameters, such as surface temperature. CO2 gas is the main GHG contributing to global warming and is mainly emitted due to anthropogenic activity. The global atmospheric concentrations of temperature, CO2, CH4, and N2O have increased markedly due to human activities [139] []. Estimating the net warming potential of GHG emissions from agriculture is important [140–142] []. An eddy covariance flux and Bowen ratio towers could be useful in this context. The Bowen ratio and eddy covariance are key concepts in meteorology and climatology. Both methods use several sensors to monitor climate parameter variations (see Figure 5). Besides, eddy covariance-based climate data flux towers give continuous measurements over a larger area with detailed information on short-term flux variation. The towers are precise, efficient, and have a high sampling rate within a short response time [138]. However, the Bowen ratio method determines latent heat flux and land surface evaporation by measuring vertical air temperature and vapor pressure gradients to partition a region’s energy balance and water cycle dynamics [143].