 Energy expenditure: To obtain better Contents FARM IMPLEMENTS comparative results, the energy required for carrying out rhizome planting and digging operations under each treatment were converted into energy units using standard conversion factors, and total energy expenditure per hectare was calculated. The experiment with the following four treatments was conducted in Girgitpally village of Ranga Reddy district in Andhra Pradesh with five farmers: T1, farmers' method of planting using sickle; T2, planting with guddeli; T3, farmers' method of harvesting using sickle, and T4, harvesting with guddeli. Ginger (local variety) was taken as the test crop. Observations were taken on the following aspects: field capacity of the implements (ha/ day), total energy expenditure (MJ/ha), cost of each operation for various implements, cost of production (Rs/ha), gross income (Rs/ha), net income (Rs/ha), cost benefit ratio and farmers' reaction (performance of the treatments). RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Data presented in Fig. 1 indicate the rainfall distribution pattern during the ginger-growing season. During the experimental years, Girigitpally village received deficit rainfall when compared with the normal rainfall over 15-years (1988-2003). The deficit was more prominent during the rhizome development and vegetative growth stages. However, the ginger being a long- duration and high-value cash crop, farmers Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE provide protective irrigation. Hence farmers irrigated the crop whenever there was a deficiency of moisture in the soil. The planting of the ginger crop was carried out from last week of May to second week of June and the crop was harvested during March to April in both the years (2002-03 and 2003-04). The data pertaining to ginger rhizomes planting and harvesting operation were collected for the treatments (Tables 1 and 2). The results obtained in 2002-03 revealed that use of guddeli for planting operation significantly increased the productivity (3.25 q/ha) and net income (Rs 4,125/ha) over the farmers method of planting (126.95 q/ha and Rs 87,165/ha). Harvesting with guddeli reduced the cost of operation up to Rs 1,000/ha (17.5%) and 14.7% increase in net income over the traditional practice (Rs 86286/ ha). The results of the field experiments in 2003- 04 indicated that use of guddeli in planting and harvesting of ginger crop enhanced the yield by 7.44 and 13.47 q/ha respectively and net income by 10.76 and 14.70% over the farmers' method. However, there was no significant difference with regard to cost of operation in planting, field capacity and yield of the crop. The pooled results of the 2 years revealed that there was no significant difference with regard to cost of operation in planting, field capacity and yield of the ginger rhizomes between the farmers' method and use of guddeli in the operations.