 The splice graft is used in greenhouse production of vegetable crops for grafting disease-resistant rootstocks. The graft can be performed manually or with sophisticated, robotic grafting machines. Grafting machines can be used to graft watermelon and melons using this method, but high initial cost for equipment and strict requirement for uniformity of seedlings present obstacles for wider adoption of grafting automation of cucurbit crops. Rootstock seedlings should have one true leaf, and scion seedlings should have two true leaves. Cut the rootstock at a 60° angle so one cotyledon remains and one is removed. Cut carefully so as to keep the remaining cotyledon firmly attached to the rootstock stem. The angled cut should also remove the apical meristem in the remaining cotyledon. Merits yy Most simple and rapid technique for grafting watermelon. yy Grafting automation can be conveniently accomplished. Demerits yy Requires careful control of humidity, light, and temperature after grafting. Grafted timeline for solanaceous and vegetable crops Tomato grafted on brinjal at IARI March–April 2021 45 yy High losses and possible diseases or physiological disorders may occur if the healing environment is not optimal. yy Some meristem tissue may remain in the rootstock, requiring removal later in the production cycle. Hole insertion grafting The hole insertion method is the most widely used method for watermelon and melon grafting. Root-stock seedlings should have one small true leaf, and scion seedlings should have just the cotyledons or the first true leaf just emerging. The diameter of the scion stem must be smaller than the diameter of the rootstock stem so that the scion can be inserted into a hole made between the two cotyledons of the rootstock. With a pointed probe, remove the true leaf, the apical meristem, and the axillary buds from the topmost growing point of the rootstock plant. It is important to remove all of the apical meristem and the axillary buds to prevent future shoot growth of the rootstock. Use the probe to create a hole in the top of the rootstock where the tissue was removed; leave the probe inserted in the growing point while cutting the scion. Cut the scion below the cotyledons at a 45° angle on two sides to form a wedge and insert it into the rootstock as the probe is removed. Mist the grafted plants with water and place in healing chamber. Merits yy A grafting clip is not essential, which saves time and labor involved in collecting grafting clips after healing. yy Tends to have a high success rate. yy Maximizes the contacting surface area between rootstock and scion which helps create a strong graft union. Demerits yy Requires slightly more skill than most other grafting techniques. yy It may require more time to graft than some of the other grafting techniques depending on the grafter’s skill and the grafting operation. yy Regrowth of the rootstock will occur if not all the meristem tissue has been removed.