 The terms and conditions governing such activities shall be laid down by the Governing Body. It shall be within the power of the Governing Body to alter, amend or repeal any or all the terms and conditions. Such Scholarships, Fellowships, Grants-in-aid shall ordinarily be restricted to Indian Citizens normally resident In India. (a) All Institutions engaged In research and education work in the sphere or agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry, fisheries and allied subjects and maintained by the Central or the State Governments or affiliated to any of the recognised Indian Universities for post- graduate research and/or education shall be "Recognised Institutions" for the purposes of the Society. (b) In addition to the "Recognised Institutions" mentioned in (a) of this Bye-law, the Governing Body may, on application and in accordance with the procedure to be laid down in this matter by the Governing Body, accord recognition to any institution, body, association or organization engaged in research in the spheres of agriculture, animal husbandry, forestry, fisheries or other allied subject. 39. The Governing Body may give to the "Recognised Institutions" such technical and/or financial assistance from the Society as it may think proper and on such conditions as it may impose. Delegation of powers to 40. other Officers V. GENERAL The Governing Body, the President, the Director- General, the Secretary, and the Directors of the Institutes/Laboratories may delagate such of their powers to other Officers of the Society as may be considered necessary in the exigencies of service. (a) The Governing Body may delegate such of its powers as may be considered necessary 48 Communication of sanction orders etc. relating to accounts Authentication of orders under CCS(CCAA) «t CCS (Conduct) Rules Exercise of powers— Continuance of Signing of Agreements Interpretation of Bye- laws Validity of action taken under the Bye-laws Validity of actions initiated under the old Rules ft Bye-laws to Boards, Committees, Sub-Committees and Panels appointed/constituted by the Governing Body under Rule 38(12) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Rules. 41. All sanctions and orders issued or delegations made by the competent authorities under the Rules, Bye- laws and Regulations affecting the Society's accounts shall be reduced to writing and communicated to the proper persons responsible for internal audit of the accounts of the Society. These orders may be communicated under the hand of either the Director-General or the Secretary or such other Officers as may be empowered by the Director-General in this behalf. 42. Orders made in the name of the President, Vice- President and the Director-General may be authenticated under the hand of the Secretary or Deputy Secretary or an Officer designated for the purpose by the Director-General. 43.