 Camphor is very effective for worms. Keywords: worm infestation, camphor, injury Hajare leaves are tied on the worm- infected part of the body. Worms die due to leaf extract of hajare. Keywords: hajare, worm People of village Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK. In this treatment, soil obtained from nests of ants is applied on the and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Tota Ram, S/o Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Chandan Ram, village Nitoie, Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bhup Ram. S/o Shri Sohan Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Satya Prakash, S/o Shri Ajaypal Singh, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator injured part of the animal to cure worms. Keywords: worms, injury, soil of ant nest 3132 Removal of worms in wound of animals by use of chanothi 3133 Treatment of intestinal worm infection in animals by harebhera leaves 3134 Treatment of intestinal worm infection in animals by neem {Azadirachta indica) and jaggery 3135 Use of watermelon leaves for treatment of worms in foot of catties 3136 Treatment of injury in animals by kanja leaves and mustard oil If any skin eruption or boil or a wound has been infested by worms in an animal, chanothi (Abrus precatnrius) creeper or its parts are applied around the animal's neck. The worms fall off the erupted spots and the affected skin dries up and heals quickly. Key words: chanothi creeper, boils, erupted spot This treatment is being used by the people of village Khata of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. To cure worm infection in animals, a paste of 200-250 g harebhera leaves is prepared and given twice daily. Keywords: worm infection, harebhera leaves A paste is prepared by mixing 250g jaggery and 500 g neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves. This paste is given orally to the animal twice daily for the treatment of worm infection. This ITK is practised in village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: worm infection, neem, jaggery Juice of 10-20 g leaves of watermelon is extracted and applied on the foot of animals. The cattle owners of village Nawada (Ban) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK for treatment against foot worms in animals. Keywords: watermelon, foot worm Cattle owners of village Kamuakala, dist. Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh, heat the leaves of kanja (250 g) in 250 ml mustard oil and bandage it on the Shri Ambalal Kalubhai Patel, Patharia Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Lalta Prasad, S/o Shri Kharagsen, Khata, block Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Mohanswarup, S/o Shri Roshan Lai, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist.