 ICAR has played a major role in promoting excellence in higher education in agriculture and coordinating education in all state agricultural universities and central agricultural universities. ICAR vigorously pursued the deployment of digital platforms in agriculture and the application of ICT for farmers’ empowerment. ICAR’s commitment to food security is evident in the development of 283 varieties of food-grains and 99 varieties of horticultural crops during the year. By optimizing agricultural production and resource management, these efforts promise to usher in an era of sustainability and resilience in Indian agriculture. The establishment of fertigation schedules for 24 crops is a leap forward in nutrient management, promising enhanced crop productivity. ICAR’s development of 28 new equipments and machineries is a giant stride towards the mechanization and modernization of agricultural practices. The establishment of breeding protocols for new fish breeds is a significant contribution to the aquaculture and fish production sector. ICAR’s forward- thinking approach promises to elevate fisheries to new heights, ensuring a sustainable and thriving industry. ICAR’s foray into robotics research is a pioneering move that is set to revolutionize agriculture. By pushing the boundaries of robotics in farming practices, ICAR is not only embracing innovation but also paving the way for a future where technology plays a pivotal role in sustainable agriculture. ICAR’s dedication to the grassroots is evident in the extensive 47,088 on-farm 1. Overview trials and 2.99 lakh frontline demonstrations. These initiatives bridge the gap between scientific advancements and on-field application, ensuring that farmers across the nation can adopt innovative practices seamlessly. The salient achievements of the Council during 2023-24 are enumerated below. Crop Improvement: During the reporting period, a total of 283 crop varieties/hybrids have been notified and released for commercial cultivation, which include 35 biofortified varieties and 32 varieties to combat the various abiotic stresses like drought, water scarcity, flood, waterlogging, salinity, sodicity, low temperature etc. Use of precision breeding tools has helped in breeding 10 traits specific varieties. Detailed break-up of the developed crop varieties is as follows: One hundred and twenty-five high yielding varieties/hybrids of cereals comprising 47 of rice, 21 of maize, 24 of wheat, 9 of sorghum, 4 of pearl millet, 6 of little millet, 5 of finger millet, 3 of proso millet, 2 each of kodo millet and foxtail millet, one each of brown top millet and barnyard millet were released for cultivation in different agro-ecologies of the country.