 The developed iRAT based CSFV detection method is specific, sensitive, easy to operate and cost effective. The reaction time as well as the detection time was reduced down to just 60 min in comparison to the conventional RT-PCR method which usually takes 150 to 180 min. In addition, the assay is advantageous in terms of enhanced accuracy (detect 5.3 μg/μl of viral RNA as compared with RT- PCR) and cost (` 86/ sample against ` 905 by conventional RT-PCR). Island and Coastal Region Genetic resources Shweta Kapila: Shweta Kapila, a cattle breed from Goa (submitted by ICAR-CCARI, Old Goa) was registered with ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources, Karnal, Haryana. The accession number of breed is INDIA_CATTLE_3500_ SHWETAKAPILA_03048. The breed is found in North Goa and South Goa districts of Goa. It has ccomplete white coloured cattle extending from muzzle to tail switch including eyelashes and muzzle (whitish brown). It has short to medium statured animal with straight face, straight and small horns directed upwards and outwards, and small to medium hump. The udder is bowl shaped and small to medium in size with cylindrical teats having rounded tips. Daily milk yield ranges from 1.8 to 3.4 kg with an average of 2.8 kg and lactation milk yield from 250 to 650 kg. The height ranges from 97 to 137 cm. The population size is approximately 22,000. The Institute is undertaking systematic research on the cattle breed for its suitability in the events of the climate change in the coastal region of the country. Crop improvement CCARI Bio 3– Value-added formulation of PGPB (Bacillus methylotrophicus STC-4) for vegetables: The population of the bacterium in the value-added formulation is >109 CFU/g with the shelf life of at least 18 months. There is no difference in the population between standard talc formulation and the value-added formulations. Agro byproduct could be added up to 10% (w/w) to the formulation and the other nutrient supplements could add value to the formulation. Brinjal seedlings in CCARI Bio 3 treated soil (15 DAS); Control (15 DAS) Brinjal seedlings in CCARI Bio 3 treated soil (30 DAS); Control (30 DAS) The value-added formulation was evaluated for its growth promoting efficiency in brinjal and chilli by applying in the soil @ 50 g/m2. Growth parameters (shoot length, root length, shoot weight and root weight) are higher in the value-added formulation compared to untreated control. No adverse effect was noticed in the value-added formulation applied treatments. Various nursery studies showed that the new formulation improved plant growth in brinjal and chilli. CCARI Bio 4– Value added formulation of PGPB (Bacillus methyllotrophicus RCh6-2b) for vegetables: The population of the bacterium in the value-added formulation is >109 CFU/g with the shelf life of at least 18 months.