 Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator Ethnic food of tribal area—use of bokna weed for pakodi preparation Ethnic food of tribal area-Sooran (Jamikanfd) soil tuber for special dish preparation in winter (b) Use of kangani seed or flour during fasting days: Kangani seeds are fried on tawa or kadhai, and it pops. These fried seeds are mixed with jaggery slurry. For 1 kg kangani pop, 250 g jaggery is required. Laddoos are prepared and consumed. Children like it very much. It can be consumed as kangani pops also and it is used for the preparation of halwa as well. For halwa the Kangani seeds are beaten in oakhali with slight water to remove husk etc., and seeds are crushed to coarse flour. Halwa is prepared while using jaggery and ghee. For 1 kg kangani seeds at least 250 g jaggery and 200 g ghee are required. During fasting period, Paris (pudis) are also prepared by using kangani flour. Therefore, instead of salt, sendha salt is added while preparing pudies, which are good in taste and consumed with vegetables. Keywords: kangani seed or flour, halwa, pudies (c) Fried pickle of sooran: Sooran is a tuber crop and consumed as tonic during winter. For the preparation of pickle, sooran is cut into pieces and boiled in water. After boiling it is kept overnight to reduce its bitterness. Next morning skin is removed. It is exposed to sun for natural drying. Sun-dried pieces are fried in ghee in 1:1 ratio. Fried sooran pieces are taken and pickle to suit one's taste is prepared by adding spices and water. During winter it is consumed with taste as energy tonic and one can consume at least 500 g fried sooran. Usually pregnant ladies are Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3628 Preparation of jonna peelaalu 3629 Preparation of shanaga murukulu 3630 Preparation of shanaga kaara advised not to consume fried sooran. Fried sooran is used for worshipping Lord Shrinathji. Keywords: sooran, fried pickle, spices Jonna peelaalu are sorghum corns made of special variety of sorghum meant for making corn. 1 kg sorghum is washed and dried in sun and then cooked in 3 litres of warm water for some time, and the remaining water is drained. It is roasted in a hot pan. Sorghum is salted to make the sorghum corn. Keywords: jonna peelaalu, corn Shanaga murukulu is made of chickpea flour. Adequate salt, chilli powder, ginger and garlic paste are added and dough is kneaded with some water to a slightly hard consistency. Then an instrument used to prepare sameya is taken and the dough is put in and pressed it in heated oil. Then the murukulu is ready. Keywords: shanaga murukulu, sameya Shanaga kaara is a snack, which is usually made during parties and tastes very good. It is made from chickpea flour. Enough salt, chilli powder, ginger and garlic paste are added according to taste.