 Therefore, the HI is considered to represent the subjective well-being of the farmers and not their income and/or food security. Thus, the objective of the present study is to assess the impact of the use of CSAT on the HI of the agrarian households of Odisha, India. In order to achieve this objective, the study used micro- level household data collected from the farmers using CSAT in Odisha. The farmers are chosen through purposive sampling, thus making the ﬁndings limited to the sample. However, the ﬁndings of this study could be a guideline for researchers working in similar areas across the globe. 1 Quality of life and Subjective wellbeing are used interchangeably in this study. 2 Happiness is assumed as the outcome of subjective wellbeing of an indi- vidual in this study. The HI is expected to capture the subjective wellbeing of an individual. D. Sahoo et al. Farming System 3 (2025) 100124 2 1.2. Background literature It is essential to have a solid understanding of the connection between alterations in the climate and one's mental health. Easterlin (1974) pre- sented the argument that traditional indices of well-being, such as in- come, cease to increase levels of happiness once a certain threshold is reached. Since then, social and economic scholars have paid greater attention to this topic. Because of this, judging someone's level of plea- sure alone based on their ﬁnancial circumstances is believed to be insufﬁcient and fails to take into consideration other areas of life. Research on societal well-being has shifted towards examining subjective well-being indicators, including happiness and total life satisfaction (Rahman et al., 2022b). Since then, the evaluation of the effects of climate change has been shifted to focus on people's feelings of happiness and satisfaction. For instance, according to the ﬁndings of a study that examined the effects of climate change, the rise in temperature has had a negative inﬂuence on the mental health of those living in rural areas of states like Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, and West Bengal of India (Pailler and Tsaneva, 2018). According to Berry et al. (2010), climate change can also affect people's mental health since it puts them in dangerous situations caused by extreme weather. Ac- cording to Rehdanz and Maddison (2005), who used panel data from 67 different nations to study the topic, the effects of happiness are not uniform across all countries. This research indicates that global warming has positively inﬂuenced the happiness of people living in countries with low average winter temperatures. On the other hand, climate change has a detrimental impact on the happiness of people living in countries where the average temperature is high. In Indonesia, a recent study on the connection between climate disasters and subjective well-being con- ducted by Rahman et al.