 Submission preparation checklist  As part of the submission process, authors are required to check off their submission’s compliance with all of the following items, and submissions may be returned to authors that do not adhere to these guidelines.  The submission has not been previously published, nor is it before another journal for consideration (or an explanation has been provided in Comments to the Editor).; and submission file should be in Microsoft Word file format.  The text is 1.5-spaced; uses a 12-point font; employs italics, rather than underlining (except with URL addresses); and all illustrations, figures, and tables are placed within the text at the appropriate points, rather than at the end. Data is correct, authentic and updated.  If submitting to a peer-reviewed section of the Indian Horticulture, the instructions in Ensuring a Blind Review have been followed.  Article is based on recent experiments or practical experience of the author.  Article should not be based on compiled matter or on some survey, report or record of extension education.  Article should not be of theoretical nature or only of local relevance. Article text gives complete relevant details of practical utility to the farmer in clear and simple English. May–June 2021 43 Two to three seeds are sown 2 cm deep in each hill. Bower or trellis system of training is preferred during kharif season to obtain high yield and disease free crop. Apply 15-20 tonnes of well-rotten organic manure per hectare before field preparation and 100 kg urea, 200 kg single super phosphate and 80 kg muriate of potash at the time of last ploughing. Another dose of 50 kg urea should be top-dressed at 8-10 leaf stage. Spray 1 % urea if crop growth is poor. When seedlings become 8-10 cm tall, thinning should be done to keep 1 or 2 seedlings per hill. Weeds are controlled by 2-3 hoeing and hand weeding in the channels and between the channel. Crop needs earthing up twice at one month interval to facilitate good root development and to reduce the weeds. Care should be taken that fruits should not touch the wet ground surface by providing some support under the fruit at the time of maturity to avoid rotting especially during kharif season Irrigation is given in the channels. Frequent irrigations during summer crop and light irrigations during rainy season crop depending upon the weather conditions. It is ready for first harvesting in 40-45 days and 50-55 days after sowing during kharif and spring-summer season, respectively. Drenching with ridomil @ 2 g/litre and blitox @ 3g/litre of water is necessary to prevent the seedlings from damping off and other root borne diseases. Downy mildew and virus are the major problem during kharif season. A need based spray of Imidachlorpid @ 0.3 ml/l or acetamiprid @ 0.