 The practice is continued at least for 1 week to get complete relief. It is used in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. It is an age- old practice. Keywords: garlic, ajwain, turmeric, fever Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2548 Use of flowers and roots of thalai suruli for treatment of fever in cattle The flowers of thalai suruli, which are small and white in colour, are fed to the animals suffering from fever. This practice is in use for last 20 years. Keywords: thalai suruli, fever Shri P. Kandan S/o Shri Palaniryandi, Nadutheru, Koppu, Trichinapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2494 Use of onion, garlic, thymol and aniseed for treatment of fever in cattle A majority of the villagers of Baldhar in Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh are using this age-old treatment for cattle since time immemorial. When cattle suffer from fever, the following symptoms appear: (1) the animals do not take fodder (2) salivation occurs, and (3) weakness in the animals is observed. For treatment of fever, cattle is treated with onion and garlic soup. Onion (Allium cepa), garlic (Allium sativum), thymol and aniseed (Foeniculus vulgaris) are properly ground and mixed with 300 ml water. Juice extracted from lakkervir, a herb, is added to the soup and given orally to the cattle. Keywords: salivation, lakkervir, fever Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2561 Use of ash in curing illness in animals For curing illness in animals, the farmers of Doda and Udhampur districts of Jammu and Kashmir are using mixture of chulha ash, black pepper and jaggery. Small quantity of chulha ash is taken and mixed with black pepper and jaggery. The mixture, thus prepared is added with flour and fed to the animals. Feeding practice of ash helps in curing Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report  various kinds of ailments of animals. The major component of the mixture is ash. Pepper and jaggery are added in small quantities. Keywords: chulha ash, illness in animals, black pepper, jaggery, flour from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2568 Use of wild tobacco (Nicotiana sp.) for curing cough in animals Cough (respiratory disease) is a common occurrence in animals. Wild tobacco is effective in controlling cough in animals. Wild tobacco is chaffed and mixed with jaggery and fed to the diseased animals once a day for three days continuously. Wild tobacco plant is easily available in forest areas of Jammu region while jaggery is the domestic consumption item and involves very low cost.