 Antibacterial activities of recombinant proteins of rohu antioxidant genes: Full-length CDs of four major antioxidant genes, i.e. catalase, glutathione peroxidise, glutathione S-transferase and CuZn superoxide dismutase were amplified, cloned and sequenced. Recombinant proteins, i.e. GPX, GST and CuZnSOD of L. rohita were expressed in E. coli BL21 (DE3) cells. The antimicrobial activities of rLrGPX, rLrGST and rLrCuZnSOD were checked by minimum inhibitory concentration in gram-negative (Aeromonas hydrophila) and gram-positive (Staphylococcus aureus) bacteria, and the activities were observed in 200 μg/ LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 84 ml concentration for all the recombinant proteins. Cloning and characterization of full-length lgp2- cDNA (complementary DNA) in rohu: The full-length lgp2-cDNA sequence obtained through rapid amplification of cDNA ends-PCR consisted of 2299 nucleotides with an open reading frame of 2034 bp encoding 677 amino acids. Rohu lgp2 consisted of four conserved domains with several important functional motifs. In respect to both in vitro and in vivo treatments using double-stranded RNA (polyI:C), lgp2 gene expression was significantly up-regulated in all tested tissues and also in the LRG (L. rohita gill) cells. lgp2 gene expression significantly increased on stimulation of LRG cells using -D-glutamyl-meso diaminopimelic acid and muramyl dipeptide. In-vivo treatment using lipopolysaccharide and Aeromonas hydrophila-derived RNA resulted in both up and down regulation of lgp2 gene expression. Immune response of Labeo rohita to Dactylogyrus scorpius: A new species of Dactylogyrus was isolated from infected Labeo rohita from Puri district of Odisha. It was identified as D. scorpius using 28s rDNA sequencing. Sequence analysis revealed that the identified parasite was having 96.21% sequence homology with D. scorpius belonging to African Dactylogyrus lineage III. A cohabitational challenge study revealed that rohu was a susceptible species among Indian major carps. Gill tissue of rohu juveniles at different time points post-infection was subjected to expression analysis of different immune genes, viz. specific immune-related genes (IgM, IgZ, MHC I), recognition molecule (TLR 22), pro-inflammatory cytokines (IL 1, IL 6, IL 8, IL 15, TNF), anti- inflammatory cytokines (IL 10), antioxidant (MnSOD, GPx, catalase) and antimicrobial peptide genes (ApoA- I, Lysozyme G). A significant up-regulation of all immune genes except MHC I and IL-15 was observed indicating the role of both specific and non-specific immune responses during D. scorpius infection. Indian Network of Fisheries and Animal Antimicrobial Resistance (INFAAR): Antimicrobial resistance (AMR) is recognized as one of the most important public health threats of the 21st century.