 This paper looks at risk return trade-off by integrating risk consider­ ations using mean-variance and mean-conditional value at risk (CVaR) optimization models. This aspect represents a significant contribution, filling a crucial gap in prior studies (e.g., Parihar et al., 2016). The optimization modeling approach outlined in this study holds profound importance, not only for delineating optimal portfolios of maize-based diversified cropping systems and corresponding tillage practices but also for designing future long-term experiments and sub­ sidiary or derivative experiments aimed at testing these optimal port­ folios. This can be done by eliminating the treatments that had worse results for both returns and risk as well as including the optimal treat­ ment combinations in any new long-term experiments. Our findings highlight a tangible risk-return trade-off within maize based diversified cropping systems and tillage practices, particularly in scenarios with high profitability involving zero tillage (ZT) and bed planting (PB) practices, which exhibit high intertemporal variability (risk). The outcomes reveal that a risk-neutral farmer would find it optimal to adopt ZT-MMuMb. However, mildly risk-averse farmers would lean towards adopting combinations such as ZT-MMuMb and PB- MWMb, ZT-MMS and PB-MWMb, or ZT-MMS and CT-MMS. Meanwhile, a very risk-averse farmer would prefer the CT-MMS approach. These results underline the necessity of addressing intertemporal variability, particularly in ZT and PB based establishment practices (e.g., with chickpea), if predominantly risk-averse farmers are to consider adopting ZT and PB tillage practices. The optimization approach we have applied provides new combinations of diversified cropping systems that were not considered in previous analyses including partially applying the treatments on a smaller portion of land instead of the treatment that gives maximum returns on average. This method can be used in other on-farm applications, including for example variety diversification, and planting date diversification. Fig. 7. The average net return (in INR ha−1) of different tillage and cropping system combinations (represented by the dot) and their inter-temporal variation (confidence interval) during the 14-years of long-term experiment. CT: Conventional tillage, ZT: Zero tillage, PB: Bed planting, MWMb: Maize-wheat-mungbean system, MMuMb: Maize-mustard-mungbean, MCS: Maize-chickpea-Sesbania, MMS: Maize-maize-Sesbania system. Fig. 8. System net returns frontier (rupees ha−1) showing optimal land allo­ cation to different tillage and cropping system combination with specific tar­ geted return, standard deviation of return, ordered by risk aversion profile. Note: Target return and target risk (or standard deviation) are in thousand INR ha−1. The scenarios are hypothetical for all possible combinations of risk averse and risk neutral decision makers. Please refer caption of Figs. 3 and 4. H.S. Nayak et al.