 Building materials, their characteristics, selection and suitability for low cost rural and urban housing, Estimating costs of building a house. Advantages of owning and renting. Green building design evaluation system – GRIHA and LEED. Energy Conservation Building Codes (ECBC) launched by BEE. Household Energy and Equipments : Household energy forms : sources, fuels, and their classification. Energy crisis, its causes and implications for energy management in homes. National efforts for energy and environmental conservation Equipments, tools and accessories for rural and urban houses, their selection, maintenance and care. Base materials, finishes, insulation materials and methods of forming utensils. Modular Kitchen. Low cost simple equipments – hay box, water filter, solar cookers etc. Family Finance and Consumer Education : Family income – types, sources and contributors Financial planning guidelines for budgeting. Engel’s law, expenditure, account keeping, investment; and savings. Credit sources, advantages, disadvantages, selection and repayments. Consumer problems - buying problems, adulteration and substandard goods, Public distribution system, Consumer rights and responsibilities and consumer protection measures, Consumer organization and their roles. Entrepreneurship Management: Scope of enterprise. Sources of information for project proposals and type of information needed. Role of government and private organizations in financing. Markets and Marketing: Types of markets, their functions and pricing. Marketing information systems, Sales management and product promotion. Ergonomics: Significance and scope of ergonomics. Man, Machine and Environment System and interactions. Anthropometry and its application. Unit 5: Home Science Extension and Communication Methods Home Science extension education: concept, principles, philosophy, objectives and approaches. Genesis of rural development programmes in India. Community Development and Integrated Rural Development- concept, principles and objectives. Relationship between family and community development. Gender sensitivity in extension education programmes. Leadership-concept, types, identification, training and mobilizing local leaders for community participation. Problems of women leaders. Panchayati Raj-philosophy, concept, functioning and scope. Extension methods and audio-visual aids. classification, selection, use and production. Modularized communication- concept, approach, need , process of designing instruction for transfer of communication. Concept, functions, key elements, theories and models of communication. Barriers to communication. Revolution in communication strategies. Advanced techniques in mass communication and soft-ware production. Participatory communication – theories and models, designing and developing participatory massage. Concept, need and constraint of community based learning. 98 Concept, steps, principles and theories of programme planning.