 A seed rhizome of around 20-30 g weight and with at least 3 nodes is ideal for sowing. These rhizomes should be treated with mancozeb 0.3% (3 g/liter of water) for 30 minutes, shade dried for 3-4 hrs and planted. A seed rate of 1500 kg/ha is sufficient for intercropping in an orchard. Ideal time of sowing in the orchard is April-June. Seed rhizomes are placed 5 cm deep in the soil and covered. Crop should be mulched immediately after planting with leaves. Weeds should be removed by regular weeding as and when they appear. Three to four weedings are sufficient. Regular irrigations are given at 10-20 days interval depending upon soil moisture content and weather conditions. Turmeric is ready for harvest in 6-9 months depending upon variety and time of sowing. On maturity, the leaves turn yellowish to light brown in colour and dry. Harvesting is often done manually using pick axe. For manual harvesting, land can also be ploughed, the clumps carefully lifted with spade and rhizomes are gathered by hand picking. Rhizomes are collected removing all the extraneous material adhering to it. Turmeric when grown in a mango orchard if managed properly give an average yield of 10 to 15 tonnes/ha. Farmers in the demonstrations conducted at their field in Malihabad mango belt obtained an average yield of 12-15 tonnes with Narendra Turmeric-2 while the yield was Turmeric grown in mango orchard at ICAR-CISH Indian Horticulture 26 higher and up to 20-30 tonnes/ha with Sudarsan variety of turmeric. Economic analysis of mango+turmeric farmers gave a B:C ratio of 3.96. Elephant foot yam (Amorphophallus paeoniifolius) Elephant foot yam is also known as suran, zimikand or ole in different parts of country. It gives high productivity and is a very remunerative intercrop as it tolerates shade very well. It has lot of medicinal uses though corms are mainly used for vegetable purpose or for pickle making. It has great demand in markets especially in Bihar, West Bengal and north eastern states besides northern India. It grows very well in tropical and sub-tropical regions. Well drained sandy loam soils are preferred for it. ‘Sree Padma’ from CTCRI and ‘Gajendra’ from ANGRAU are most commonly grown varieties in different parts of country. After preparing the land to a fine soil tilth, vertically cut corm pieces, each with a portion of apical bud are planted during February–March or April- May. Before planting, corms are field dried for 40-45 days. Whole corm size of 500 to 750 gram is generally recommended for use as seed for commercial cultivation but in case of non-availability, bigger size corms of 2-3 kg are cut vertically into 4-6 pieces, retaining a portion of central apical bud for sowing. Generally, a seed rate of 2500 to 4000 kg/ha is sufficient for a mango orchard. Mini-sett transplanting planting using vertically cut pieces of 100 g has also been standardized which cuts down the requirement of seed corms drastically, reducing the cost of cultivation.