 The list of such Nodal Officers, who are serving the Institute/HQs is given in the Annexure I. Besides, number of guidelines and advisories were issued with the approval of the Competent Authority in the ICAR to facilitate the Nodal Officers for effective implementation and monitoring of training and capacity building programmes in their respective ICAR-Institute. Such guidelines and advisories have been given in the Annexure II and III, respectively. In order to have uniform budgetary provisions throughout the ICAR system for judicious and economic utilisation of HRD funds by the Organising and Sponsoring ICAR-Institutes, Training Costs/Budget Plan for the Training Programmes organized from HRD fund of the Institute/HQs have been framed and executed with the approval of the Competent Authority in the ICAR (Annexure IV). 5. Formulation and Implementation of ICAR HRM Policy : Training and Capacity Building For the first time, ìICAR HRM Policy : Training and Capacity Buildingî has been formulated in sync with National Training Policy-2012 of Government of India and approved for implementation for all categories of ICAR employees. This policy focuses on the tenet of ëcompetency-based training for allí which means that all cadres should get due emphasis for training and capacity building. The Policy gives guidelines on competency framework; objectives; nature of training; training targets; role of ICAR and training institutions; trainer development; foreign training; funding; implementation, coordination, monitoring and evaluation. It also encompasses model training schemes for scientific, technical, administrative (including finance and accounts), stenographer services and skilled support staff. The Policy envisages for transforming the employees of ICAR by developing strategic human resource management system, which shall look at the individual as a vital resource to be valued, motivated, developed and enabled to achieve the overall Organizationís Mission 5 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) and Objectives. Though, initiation of implementation of Policy started in later part of 2014 but the effective implementation begin since 2016-17. The important features of the Policy which have been effectively implemented so far are enumerated below. ï Training Manager of ICAR to the level of ADG has been appointed for overall coordination, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of training functions in ICAR. ï HRM Unit at ICAR HQs has been created in September, 2014. ï HRM Unit of ICAR is acting as Nodal Agency for the coordination and implementation of the Policy and issuing appropriate guidelines from time to time. ï Institutionalised System of Training has been developed at each ICAR-Institute/HQs. ï Competencies of the HRD Nodal Officers are being developed by NAARM, Hyderabad in coordination with HRM Unit of ICAR.