 According to FAO (2002), Agricultural mechanization is the process of improving farm labour productivity through the use of agricultural machinery, implements and tools. Custom Hiring Centre (CHC) are basically a unit comprising a set of farm machinery, implements and equipment meant for custom hiring by farmers. The main objective of CHC is to supply farm implements to small, marginal and poor farmers at subsidized rates on hire. This enables the small and marginal farmers to take up farm operation on time. Ideally, the CHCs should be located within a radius of 5–7 km of land holdings. This will reduce the transport cost and time of transport of agricultural machinery. There are now more than 38,000 CHCs across the country, which rent out 2.5 lakh pieces of farm equipment every year. Therefore, in order to bring farm machinery available within the reach of small/marginal holdings, collective ownership or Custom Hiring Centres are being promoted View of nursery plot Indian Farming 42 July 2023 in a big way. If you build a private Custom Hiring Center, then the government will provide 40% of the money. A project worth up to `60 lakhs can be passed, i.e. according to the need of the farmers of their area, they can buy such amount of machines. In this project, government assistance of `24 lakhs will be available. Whereas, if you prepare machine bank by forming a cooperative group then there should be 6–8 farmers in the group. In this project up to `10 lakhs will be passed. That is, you will get government assistance of up to 8 lakh rupees. To avail the subsidy, the farmer can contact the Engineering Division of the Agriculture Department of their respective states. Over the years, agriculture mechanization has helped to increase production and profitability, improve the use of inputs, reduce the costs of production, and assist in income-building and employment opportunities. Punjab, characterized by smallholder farmers, is a highly mechanized state. Custom Hiring Services (CHS), an important mechanism through which most small holders can access services of agricultural machinery. CHS in the state not only helps to generate non- farm income but also enable farmers to produce a second or multiple crops in a year, thus limiting the turnaround time and increasing productivity. Sh. Paramjit Singh, himself is a small farmer, belonging to village Bughipura, Distt. Moga, Punjab. expenses of about `2.0 lakh/annum. By his hard work and dedication, he taught his children from reputed institutions. Paramjit Singh has total land holding of 3.5 acre. Out of which he cultivates only 1.25 acre and lends 2.0 acre on lease basis to other farmer. On 1.25 acre, he follows paddy-wheat rotation. During kharif season, he grows nursery for sale purpose and earns good returns. For instance, during kharif, 2020, he purchased 4.96 q of basmati seed from Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Budh Singh Wala, Moga and sold the nursery by growing on his farm.