 Moreover the rural artisan may get employment for manufacturing such unique products using handloom in rural areas thereby helping in development of rural economy. Fish Production and Processing CAPTURE FISHERIES MARINE SECTOR The marine fish production, in India, during 2001 has been estimated at 2.33 million tonnes, a decrease of 13%, as compared to 2.69 million tonnes of the preceding year. The pelagic, demersal and crustaceans group formed about 51%, 27% and 17%, respectively, of the total landings. The mechanized and motorized sector constituted 67.7% and 24.6%, respectively, of the total landings. The percentage contributions of north east, south east, south west and north west regions are 7.3, 22.2, 32.0 and 37.0 respectively. INLAND SECTOR Inventory and mapping of large water bodies of West Bengal A complete inventory and mapping of larger water bodies above 10 ha in the West Bengal have been done through digital image processing technique by using satellite data (IRS-IC & ID) acquired from National Remote Sensing Agency, Hyderabad. Analysis techniques were also developed to extract brightness (value), hue (colour) and saturation (colour purity) for each pixel which are correlated with actual on-site data on water quality. Multiple correlation coefficient has been computed for regression of these water quality parameters on reflectance of four bands. The significant values have been observed for water temperature, pH, chlorinity, salinity, NO3, total N, silicate, Ca, GPP and respiration. Assessment of production potential of Rajasthan reservoirs Ecological investigations with major thrust on the evaluation of production potential of four southern Rajasthan reservoirs, viz., Jawai, West Benas, Nandsamand and Gambhiri were conducted. Based on biogenic production potential management guidelines have been formulated for these reservoirs. CULTURE FISHERIES FRESHWATER AQUACULTURE Diversification of carp culture with medium carp To diversify freshwater aquaculture, successful induced breeding and larval rearing of Anabas testudineus, Clarias batrachus, Heteropneustes fossilis, Ompok pabda, Mystus vittatus, Labeo fimbriatus, Puntius gonionatus, Channa striatus and Pangassius pangassius were achieved. The medium carp Puntius gonionatus was evaluated as a candidate species for monoculture in three stocking densities of 5,000, 10,000 and 15,000/ha ponds. After eight months of culture the mean growth and survival levels recorded were 331 g and 94.3%, 259 g and 82.2% and 183 g and 77.3% gross and the respective net. l Marine fish production was 2.33 million tonnes. l Management guidelines prepared for Rajasthan reservoirs. l Induced breeding and larval rearing of medium carps achieved. l Crossbreeding of freshwater prawns was attempted. l Growth rate of Jayanti rohu was better in lower stocking density. l Lysine and methionine supplementation induced early maturation in Indian major carps. l Aquatic pollutant resulted in reproductive incompetence.