 When you know the problem as early as 2005, why did not inform seniors? Whatever information was known to me in 2005 was informed to my immediate seniors, Dr S. K. Banerjee, Principal Scientist, Entomology, Dr Sheoraj HOD, and Dr B. M. Khadi, Director at CICR. 25. Why did not inform DDG (CS) and DG, after you took over as the Director, CICR particularly at the Directors' Conference wherein all are present? I took over as Director in February 2010. By then the matter was discussed in detail on lOth December 2009 under the chairmanship ofthe DDG (CS) and decisions were taken. I took over as acting-Director on May 24th 2008 and the matter was already discussed in detail under the chairmanship ofthe DDG (CS) on 21 st May 2008 and decisions were taken. There was no perceived need for any further discussion in any forum. Once the matter has been discussed in detail with the DOG (CS), it is his prerogative to take it further with the DG if needed, not that ofthe Director. 26. You praised performance ofBN Bt even after taking over as the Director, CICR but your stand changed after the problem came into open. Please comment. Whatever I did to promote and commercialize BN-Bt and Bt-NHH-44, was in compliance with the decisions taken by ICAR headquarters as laid out in the proceedings ofthe meeting held on 21 st May 2008 and also the crucial meeting held on 12th.December 2008 under the chairmanship ofthe DDG (CS). As the acting-Director of an ICAR institute I followed the instructions. I did not praise the performance ofBN Bt. I only spoke about the possible virtues ofa Bt variety, which I helieve can be superior to a Bt hybrid, since the seeds do not segregate for the Cry toxin in the bolls ofstraight varieties as it happens in hybrid plants. We at CICR would have certainly been happy ifthe seeds were pure for the BN-Bt event as assured by the breeders ofUAS Dharwad and the Director NRCPB. Based on their confident assurances, the support was complete from CICR and in compliance with the proceedings of the meetings held on 21 $I May 2008 and 12th December 2008. I informed the DDG (CS) immediately after our results showed that all the BN-Bt Cry1Ac toxin positive seeds were found to contain Mon 531 event. The problem never came into open before that. I also informed the DDG (CS) in a detailed letter in October describing all the issues related to BN-Bt in detail requesting for guidance. 27. CICR under you takes credit in the development of BN-Bt but your stand changed to that BN Bt is developed by VAS Dharwad. Please comment. It is grossly incorrect to say that CICR took any deliberate credit for the development ofBN- Bt cotton. The role ofCICR was clearly that ofbio-safety prior to 2008 and commercialization subsequently. The commercialization process was in continuation of Dr Khadi's biosafety co-ordination work at CICR.