 Alternatively, fixed low-cost camera Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report In order to achieve environmentally sustainable agriculture, sensor networks are designed to collect, store, and monitor data efficiently. Additionally, this model of architecture deployment should be affordable so that low-income farmers can adopt it into their farming practices. So this system is built using a low-cost LoRa-based communication protocol to aggregate the sensor data from the field to the cloud as shown in figure -2. These sensor nodes are deployed in the field, to measure physical parameters, such as the temperature of the field, the intensity of the light’s source, the pH of the rainwater, atmospheric humidity and soil moisture. These sensor nodes are placed according to the range of the base station. The data thus collected are transmitted to the gateway using LoRa protocol. The microcontroller of this system is designed using STM32 controller. Soil Moisture ' a ¢ LoRa Cellular lo © oil Sur, ee ete Le % . a 7 Network Server Light Intensity we % CO AL kee Humidity a Figure 2. LoRa Network Architecture in Cashew crop management c. Communication infrastructure (i) (a) drone with cellular connectivity 4G/ 5G (or) 5.8 GHz RF Transmitter on the UAV and receiver on the control station, for control and live transmission of images. (b) 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi for communication with the controller and Memory card to store images. (ii) Wired connectivity from camera units to local hub and 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi for communication between hub and main server. - Interfaces, protocols for communications - (i) (a) 5G modem (or) RF Interface (b) Wi-Fi NIC - (ii) Wi-Fi NIC d. Deployment considerations Images from the cashew field were taken using smart phone and sent to cloud server using 4G. Since the number of images was considerably high, the latency of the system was significant. The delay performance could be improved, if the smart phones are replaced by drones and transmit the images using 5G. Alternatively, fixed low-cost camera TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 70 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 71 units, connected through cables to a local hub, could send the pictures to cloud server through 5G modem. e. Regulatory considerations Country specific regulatory norms may be followed while deploying the use case. [ In India Cellular network is deployed across the country and same may be used for drone applications] 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) The Plant Disease Detection System is modelled to allow farmers to quickly and easily identify the diseases the plants might be suffering from. The fundamental structure of this module is illustrated in the Figure 3. This work employs the Mohanty [5] dataset of Epidemiology lab, EPFL, Geneva for training and validating the plant disease identification.