 ŠŠ For induced breeding, commercial hormone (Ovaprim/Ovatide/GonoproFH) @ 0.30 ml/kg and 0.15 ml/kg is injected to females and males respectively. Spawning occurs 6-7 h after injection in circular hatchery. ŠŠ Eggs are transferred to hatching tank, where hatching occurs after 14-15 h. Female lays 5-7 lakh eggs/kg body weight. Spawn stage is achieved in another 45-50 h. ŠŠ Spawn of this species are very tiny (3 mm in length) in size and needs setting of small mesh filter cloth (1/80 mesh size) in the central overflow outlet of the hatching tank. ŠŠ Spawn is reared for 40-45 days in tanks for obtaining fry. They are fed on concentrated feeds such as milk powder, soya milk, egg custard and gradually weaned on to finely powdered oil cake, rice bran and fish meal mixture. ŠŠ The technology is widely adopted in West Bengal, Odisha, Tripura and Assam. Compiled by: Dr Pratap Chandra Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 50 Rainbow Trout Oncorhynchus mykiss (Walbaum, 1792) ŠŠ Rainbow trout is a promising high value freshwater cultivable food fish of coldwater and has considerable scope for its expansion in uplands region. ŠŠ Breed during November to February and attains maturity after three years. It breeds in wild in running conditions. Captive broodstock development requires cold (9-14°C), clean and highly oxygenated water (>7 mg/l) and good feed with 45-50% protein. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinguishable on maturity with females having bulgy abdomen and reddish vent, whereas males are slender with pointed snout, hooked lower jaws and oozes white milt on pressing belly. ŠŠ Males and females are segregated 2 months prior to spawning and reared at density of 5-10 kg/m3 and sex ratio of 1:2 female to male. Brooders mature fully without hormonal application but do not naturally spawn. ŠŠ Fertilization of eggs is done by dry method of stripping. Fertilized eggs are lemon-yellow or light green in colour having diameter of 4-5 mm. A mature female lays around 1500-1800 eggs/kg body weight. ŠŠ Eggs are incubated in meshed trays (mesh size- 1.5-2.5 mm diameter) @ 2000 eggs/tray with provision for flowing water, where they hatch in 40-60 days and called sac-fry or alevin due to large yolk-sac attached with them. ŠŠ Sac fry (1.5-1.8 cm, 45-50 mg) are reared for 10-14 days in trays until metamorphosed to swim-up fry stage, when yolk-sac is fully consumed and larvae start feeding. ŠŠ Free swimming fry are fed 10 times a day @ 5-10% of biomass with starter feed. After one week, feeding frequency is reduced to 3-4 times a day and thereafter they are transferred to outdoor concrete tanks. ŠŠ The technology is in practice in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Compiled by: Dr N.N. Pandey and Dr D.