 The feed technologies and innovations for improving FCR and alternate feed resources for cheaper feed formulation is an important researchable area. The diversification in products technology and value addition along with traceability-based quality assurance would help in meeting the market demands. The advancements in different areas may be converged with the conventional tools or the different advanced tools may be applied simultaneously as technology package for bringing improvement in quality and quantity of animal produce and products. 10. Conclusion Livestock sector has made phenomenal growth during the last eight decades with many-fold increase in production and productivity of livestock species, bringing India towards self- reliance in animal products as well increasing export potential of this sector. The concerted and interwoven R&D efforts across different disciplines of animal science have culminated into development of several innovative technologies and products, which have transformed the animal sector into industry such as dairy industry, poultry industry, feed industry, food Indian Agriculture after Independence 166 processing and value addition industry, etc. The advanced tools and technologies are being used in different areas like animal production, health, reproduction, housing and management, livestock products development. Efforts are continuing for improving the performance of livestock and poultry through genetic and /or biotechnological interventions. Improved housing and nutritional interventions are helping in economic production with better animal welfare. The advanced reproductive technologies have tremendous potential in the faster multiplication of the superior germplasm as well as in the conservation of threatened breeds/species. Overall the R&D in animal science is striving for narrowing the gap between demand and availability with regards to animal products to alleviate the problems of malnutrition, thereby making country self-reliant besides expanding export potential in this sector. References AICRP (1985) All-India Coordinated Research Project on Goats. Terminal Report, Central Institute for Research on goats Makhdoom, Mathura, India. BAHS (2020) Basic Animal Husbandry Statistics, GoI, Min. of FAHD, DAHD, New Delhi. Bhattacharya TK, Shukla R, Chatterjee RN and Dushyanth K (2016) Knock down of the myostatin gene by RNA interference increased body weight in chicken. J Biotech 241: 61-68. Bhatta R, Saravanan M, Baruah L, Malik PK and Sampath KT (2016) Nutrient composition, fermentation characteristics and in vitro rumen methane output from tropical feedstuffs. J Agric Sci Cambridge 155: 171-183. Bhatta R, Saravanan M, Baruah L and Prasad CS (2015) Effects of graded levels of tannin-containing tropical tree leaves on in vitro rumen fermentation, total protozoa and methane production. J Applied Microbiol 118: 557-564.