 Shift in the area and extent of bio-climate type and the LGP classes may be ascribed partly to the climatic aberrations, particularly in the pattern and the amount of rainfall in recent years. These have been noted from the increasing incidence of dry spells, late-onset and early withdrawal of monsoon, and cyclones of varying intensities. Shifts in the extent and area of bio-climate and LGP are also partially attributed to the development of irrigation facilities under the state-run watershed development programme and irrigation projects. The extent and severity of land degradation such as salinity, sodicity, nutrient depletion, multi-nutrient deficiency, and acidity may be the other reasons for the shift in AER parameters. Similarly, on comparison of revised map of LGP classes of 2015 (another component of AER) with that of 1992, it is observed that the area under LGP <60 days is Length of growing period maps (1992 and 2015) of India revised from 16.5 to 29.6 mha and the area under LGP class of 60–90 days belonging to the western Rajasthan, arid part of Gujarat and Ladakh region of Jammu and Kashmir is modified from 16.4 to 9.9 mha. The area under LGP class of 120–150, 150–180 and 180–210 days belonging to the states of Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Telangana and Karnataka is also revised. The area under LGP class of 210–240 covering the Western Ghats of Kerala, Karnataka, Maharashtra and Uttarakhand state is revised from 6.6 to 26.3 mha. The area in LGP class of 240–270 and >270 days encompassing the western part of Assam and the eastern part of West Bengal is also altered from 9.9 to 6.6 mha and from 13.2 to 23.0 mha, respectively. SUMMARY Owing to the revision, the AER map is now closer to the ground reality as compared to the previous one. It is expected that the map would be more useful in defining crop-specific zones and in undertaking alternate land use planning in the changing scenario of demography and climate. It has greater relevance and practical utility in developing future action plans involving crop diversification, upscaling of on-farm research results, extension of agricultural technologies and overcoming challenges of sustainable land use to maintain food security under climate change scenario. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: member.nrm@asrb.org.in Growing period Revised length of growing period Indian Farming 17 June 2023 Climate resilient farming: India initiatives S K Chaudhari* Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan II, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012 Climate change is a major area of concern for Indian agriculture in view of its high vulnerability and dominance of small holder farms. Agriculture sector is exposed to extreme events like droughts, floods, heat wave, cold wave, unseasonal rains, cyclones etc. causing immense loss year after year.