 Keywords: cowdung and mud slurry, cotton, fuzzy seed Director of Extension Education Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Summer pearl millet after cotton, a new cropping system Since last 4-5 years, some farmers of Dhule, Nandurbar, Jalgaon and Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra have started cultivation of pearlmillet in summer after kharif cotton. The area under kharif cotton is Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  increasing day by day, thereby reducing the area under food crops. The farmers themselves have felt the shortage of food grains for their family and fodder for their cattle. To overcome this problem, farmers have started taking summer pearlmillet after kharif cotton and they are getting good-quality grains and fodder as compared to the kharif crop. Moreover, yields are also more. Sowing is done in January by using double the seed rate than used in kharif. All other packages of practices are the same as that for kharif. Only 5-6 irrigations are required. No pests and diseases have been noticed so far. Keywords: summer pearlmillet, kharif cotton 2303 Dry sowing of cotton, pigeonpea and rice For getting advantage of early seeding in kharif season, farmers resort to dry seeding of cotton (local variety), pigeonpea and rice. Seeing is generally done 10-12 days before the anticipated date of onset of monsoon. In this practice, dry seeded crops give the advantage of 8-10 days earlier sowing than normal. When sufficient rains are received, the dry seeded grains start germinating. In dry seeding, however, there is a risk of re-sowing in the event of receipt of inadequate rainfall. Otherwise it gives 10% more yield. Dry seeding of cotton and pigeonpea is in practice in Dhule, Nandurbar and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra. Dry seeded rice is taken in Taloda and Akkalkuwa tehsils of Nandurbar district in Maharashtra. Keywords: dry sowing, cotton, pigeonpea, rice, monsoon Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Ratooning of kharif cotton In Nandurbar, Dhule and Jalgaon districts of Maharashtra, farmers are taking ratoon crop of cotton. The farmers who are having irrigation facilities are following this practice. Ratooning is done after 3-4 pickings of cotton and the crop is supplemented with chemical fertilizers and 2-3 irrigations till February-March. The farmers get additional yield of about 10-15 q/ha, in addition to previous harvest. Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  Keywords: ratooning, kharif cotton 2303 Ratooning of rainfed cotton raised on deep black soil In Shevgaon and Pathardi tehsils of Ahmednagar district, farmers take cotton during monsoon/ rainy season, which is harvested upto end of November/ December.