 Hap-1 was represented by accessions from India, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, while Hap-3 was predominantly from Bangladesh and adjoining Assam, suggesting uniqueness to deep-water tall accessions. The stress-specific GWAS results were promising, revealing hits with previously reported genes and some potential new ones, such as LOC_Os05g35480.1 (Phosphor-ribosyl transferase) and LOC_Os07g08140.1 (transcription factor) for stomatal density under severe drought conditions. Potential genes identified for grain yield under low P were Ospho1 (Chr2) involved in translocation of phosphate from root to shoot and OsSPX1 (Chr6) controlling phosphorus homeostasis in rice. PCA biplot showing the grouping of 181 aus germplasm based on 11 agro-morphological traits. The loadings of the traits are shown in the set. Fine mapping and marker-assisted breeding for alternative dwarfing genes Rht14 and Rht18 to develop semi dwarf wheat genotype suitable for conservation agriculture: The fine mapping was carried out to understand the molecular mechanism of alternative dwarfism in wheat. The Rht18 region is delimited to ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 152 BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH 7.5 Mbp with closest SSR marker at 0.23 cM. Three new KASP SNP markers were developed for faster selection of Rht18 in breeding lines. InDels and SNPs were identified as the potential candidate genes in Rht18 locus, which was further used to confirm the candidate gene. The fine mapping studies provided the precise map position of important alternative dwarfing loci Rht14 and Rht18 in wheat. The closely linked markers are available for their deployment in wheat breeding programs. About 24 differentially expressed genes from Rht18 and Rht14 region were identified at two stem elongation stages. The RNAseq and the qRT-PCR results showed a significant correlation (r2=0.82, P<0.01) between the methods. The data suggests that the results obtained by the RNAseq experiment are in agreement with qPCR, and hence considered reliable. Six miRNA with differential expression in dwarf phenotype were identified. BC3F4 seeds carrying alternative dwarfing genes Rht14 and Rht18 were obtained in the background of HD 2967, HD 3086, HI 1544 and HI 1500 by marker- assisted backcross breeding. Lines with improved coleoptile length, seedling shoot length, plant height and resistance to leaf and stripe rust were identified. These results provided advanced wheat breeding lines with alternative dwarfing genes and better seedling Fine mapping of Rht18 loci in durum wheat using SNP and SSR markers CRISPR Crop Network for targeted improvement of stress tolerance, nutritional quality and yield of crops by using Genome Editing Gene editing with CRISPR-Cas9 technology was employed to develop mutants of the DST (Drought and Salt Tolerance) gene, a zinc finger transcription factor in rice cultivar MTU 1010.