 whether all the increments are to be allowed at the rate of first increment or at the rate indicated in the scale of pay. The matter has been examined and it has been decided with the approval of Competent Authority that the advance increments granted to Technical Personnel may be allowed at the rate indicated in the scale of pay, at the appropriate stage(s). The receipt of this letter may be acknowledged. Yours faithfully. Sdl- (G.C. Sharma) Oepu1y Secretary(S) n ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES F.No.17(12)/95-Estt IV To Dated !O March I 997 Subject: Sir, The Director/PDs/PCs/NRCs/ZCs of!CAR Research Insti- tutes Abolition of Auxiliary and Administrative (non- ministerial) Category-Reclassification of Posts. I am to refer to Council's letter of even number dated the 20.8.1996, conveying therewith the approval of GB on the subject above. The posts of Sr Hindi Translator, Hindi Translator and Jr Hindi Translator are also classified as Technical. The other terms and conditions will remain same as in the letter dated 20.8.1996 referred to above. Yours faithfully, Sdl (G.C. Shanna) DS(S) ICAR HANDBOOK Of TECHNICAL SERVICES F.No.17-12/95-Estt IV Dated 20 August 1996 To The Directors/Project Directors/Project Co-ordinators/Zonal Co-ordinators of the !CAR Research lnstitutes/Na1ional Research Centres /Zonal Co-ordinating Units Subject: Abolition of Auxiliary and Administrative (nou- ministerial) Category - Reclassification of Posts Sir, A Committee under the chairmanship of Dr Kirti Singh was appointed to consider various issues related to classification/reclassification of the posts whlCh have not been covered in the Award given by the Board of Arbitration. issue related to removal of auxiliary posts and to re-consider appropriate classification of the posts classified as Administrative, Administrative (non- ministerial) and supporting. 2. The recommendations of the Committee were considered by the Governing Body in the 170th meeting. The Presidem, ICAR, has since approved, the proceedings of the GB. The approved re-classification of posts into Technical, Administrative and Supporting Categories is given in the Annexure I. The salient features of the re-classification and action required to be taken by the institutes for implementing these orders are given below. 3. The posts in Auxiliary and Administrative (non-ministerial) Category siand abolished. 4. Two new functional groups i.e. functional group VIII 'Medical and Paramedical Staff' and functional group IX - 'Housekeeping Staff' have been added. Accordingly, the Directors of the Institutes are requested to submit the proposal regarding model qualifications for the posts belonging to new functional groups, wherever these posts exist. The Directors are also requested to send proposals for draft Recrultment Rules related to newly classified Administra1ive and Supporting posls. 5.