 Some pynes can be created by erecting embankment in the river beds. During dry spell, irrigation water for paddy crop is drawn out from Ahars by opening pipe outlets made at different heights in the embankment. Beds of ahar and pyne can used to grow a rabi crop using the residual moisture, especially in drought years in which the water level recedes fast. The system is also useful in groundwater recharge. Average area that can be irrigated from Ahar during kharif season is 57 ha and can go up to 400 ha. Ahar and Pyne system Ahar and Pyne system prevalent in Southern Bihar Evaporation management The prominent management options include early sowing, mulching, residue recycling, and zero tillage or reduced tillage. Early sowing and promoting early growth: The rate of evaporation is low (2 to 3 mm per day) during the colder months of December and January, and increases progressively in subsequent months and reaches a peak in May-June. Early sowing and promoting early growth of suitable cold loving crops helps in utilization of profile moisture, early harvest, and evading the period of high evapotranspiration rate. Mulching: Mulching with dry leaves, weeds and other bio-wastes help in lowering the soil temperature in summer and checking evaporation losses. Also, the weeds are controlled. In winter, mulching improves the soil temperature for fast sprouting of tubers, germination of seeds and increases the crop yield. Mulching when integrated with surface drip irrigation for close spaced row crops, it saves water by checking evaporation loss. Further water saving is possible by integration of mulching and micro-irrigation with the application time limited to critical crop growth stages only. Use of crop residue: Leaving behind crop residues on field over long period is effective at field level to promote infiltration, reduce evaporation loss and facilitate water availability to plant by maintaining pore size distribution, bio pore creation, and microbial aggregation. For significant reduction in evaporation, at least 50% of crop residues should remain on soil surface. Avoid on-season tillage: One on-season tillage operation leads to loss of about 0.5-inch water (1.27 lakh litres/ha) as evaporation. Zero tillage and reduced tillage can be practiced for sowing followed by spreading crop residues and mulch, so that the needs of on-season tillage can be avoided with a reduced evaporative loss. SUMMARY Rainwater management in high rainfall areas is to allow maximum possible rainwater to be stored in soil profile and harvest excess runoff, store it and use it in the same area or nearby areas. Harvesting potential can be enhanced by integrating the check dams with ponds, and multi stage harvest with ponds. ICAR-Flexi check dam or rubber dam is an inflatable structure built across a stream and used for water conservation, flood control and regulating flow of water in the stream.