 Third Party evaluation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) has been carried out by National Institute of Labour Economics Research and Development (NILERD), an autonomous institute under NITI Aayog 2015. The major observations and findings of this evaluation are as follows.  It was observed that KVKs are playing proactive role in transferring new technology at field level with beneficial impacts.  The KVKs have an edge in technology transfer over other service providers by virtue of having better technical expertise and demonstration abilities.  About 40 percent farmers reported that they implemented the technology immediately after its dissemination by KVK and that 25 percent did so from the next agricultural season.  On an average a KVK covers 43 villages and 4300 farmers per year. 80% of villages covered are 10 km away from KVK.  96% farmers’ requests were attended by KVKs.  42% technologies adopted by farmers resulted in higher productivity, 33% resulted in high harvest income and 20% resulted in drudgery reduction.  About 25% of persons trained started self-employment ventures.  With the intervention by KVKs, about 80% of the farmers have modified their agricultural patterns which were related to diversification of crops and changes in cropping pattern, seed planting technique, use of fertilizers and pesticides, changes in machinery used and in water use pattern. Besides, International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI) evaluated the KVKs in 2019. The major findings of Study on KVK by IFPRI are as follows:  KVKs’ efforts generated an additional net farm income of Rs. 5752 per hectare. Indian Agriculture after Independence 352  Cost Benefit ratio is 1:11.78. Thus, the rate of return on expenditure on KVK is very high.  One farmer trained by a KVK disseminates technology/knowledge to 30 fellow farmers.  3 FLDs can benefit 31 other farmers and 3 training beneficiaries can benefit 27 other farmers  FLD and training primary beneficiaries have 51.8% and 21.3% higher adoption rates  For FLDs, secondary and network beneficiaries have 12.6% and 11.5% higher adoption rates compared to non-beneficiaries, respectively.  For training programs, network beneficiaries have 16.1% higher adoption rates compared to non-beneficiaries. Major findings of study titled “Impact Evaluation of Central Sector Scheme (CSS) of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) – Agricultural Extension Segment” conducted by Indian Society of Agribusiness Professionals, New Delhi during 2020 are given below.  For training programs, network beneficiaries have 16.1% higher adoption rates compared to non-beneficiaries.  On an average, KVK outreach found to be around 90-100 villages. With its strong ICT interventions, the outreach to villages increases to even 200 villages per KVK.