 The Prospects Sathgudi Batavian Mosambi fruit develops prominent furrows on skin and a circular groove at the stylar end. It has hard and thick skin. It tastes sweeter and has more number of seeds compared to Sathgudi. It lacks flavour and has inadequate blending of acidity with sugars. The fruit is spherical, smooth and weighs about 200 g; it has 14 segments; 8.5o brix; 0.44% acidity and 43% juice content. Propagation Healthy and vigorously growing buds from desired sweet lime variety are selected and budded on Rangapur lime root-stock. Planting The plants selected should be free from virus, pest and disease. While planting the bud joints should not go into the soil. The plants have to be staked immediately to avoid wind damage. An intra-row spacing of 4 – 5 m and inter row spacing of 6 – 8 m will be sufficient depending upon the fertility status of the soil. This will facilitate Indian Horticulture 12 operating tillage machinery and taking up plant protection measures. Pits of 1 meter cube are dug and filled with mixture of tank silt, red earth and farm yard manure in equal proportions. 2 – 3 kg bone meal or super phosphate per pit to be applied. Planting may be done preferably after the rainy season to avoid water stagnation. Manures and fertilizers Nitrogen is applied in the form of FYM and oil cakes each at 25% and the remaining 50% as chemical fertilizer while P2O5 is applied in the form of superphosphate and K2O in the form of sulfate of potash. Manures are applied in 2 – 3 equal doses i.e. first dose in December- January, 2nd dose in June-July and 3rd dose in September. A mixture of Zinc sulfate 0.5%, Manganese sulfate 0.2%, Boric acid 0.1%, Urea 1% and lime 0.4% has to be sprayed two or three times in a year to control chlorosis in leaves. Pruning and training The plants should be trained to grow straight and to build a strong framework. Rootstock sprouts, water suckers and dead wood should be removed periodically and Bordeaux/Copper fungicide paste to be applied at the cut ends. Intercropping Short duration rainfed crops like green gram, black gram, cowpea or horse gram can profitably be raised in the inter-row spaces during the rainy season as the crop canopies of sweet lime are shorter. Weeding and interculture The interspaces can be kept weed free by operating cultivator. Power weeders are now a days used for weeding and hoeing in the basins. After weeding and manuring, application of dry leaf mulch or paddy husk to a thickness of 6–8 cm in the basin keeps down the weed growth and decreases the number of irrigations. Irrigation Scheduling of irrigation depends upon the climatic conditions, soil type and available soil moisture in the root zone. Normally drip irrigation is recommended to save water and labour. Young trees need to be watered regularly during the dry season. Control of fruit drop Early and pre-harvest fruit drop is very common.