org/ training/fact-sheets/water-management/ saving-water-alternate-wetting-drying-awd System of rice intensification (SRI) System of rice intensification (SRI) is a set of agronomic practices which involve the use of maximum possible organic manure, planting of very young seedlings (8–15 days old), in wide spacing (25–50 cm) with one seedling per hill, minimum three initial weedings, intermittent irrigations and frequent use of mechanical weeder to increase soil aeration. This method was developed by French Jesuit father Henri de Laulanie in Madagascar and has been developed and modified after decades of Table 1. Major rice-based cropping systems of India Irrigated condition Upland condition Rice under integrated farming system Rice-Rice-Rice Rice-Chickpea Rice-Fish-Poultry Rice-Rice-Cereal Rice-Lentil Rice-Fish-Duckery Rice-Rice-Pulses Rice-Mustard/Linseed Rice-Wheat-Pulse Rice-Barley Rice-Toria-Wheat Rice-Wheat Rice-Wheat Rice-Pea Rice-Mustard Indian Farming 35 August 2023 agricultural experimentation. This method of rice cultivation is not only suitable for mid and heavy textured soils but also less fertile soils where the number of seedlings needs to be increased. This method of rice cultivation has been adopted by millions of smallholder farmers worldwide, especially in Asia and Africa. However, despite its success it still needs a lot of institutional intervention for dissemination of knowledge about the technique and providing training. Although this method is more labour intensive, this method has been reported to fix more carbon per unit input, has profuse tillering, reduced lodging, higher grain and straw yield and a larger root biomass. It has been observed that SRI’s non-flooding practices, along with organic soil management can potentially reduce methane emissions by 50%. In addition, SRI practices are excellent for maintaining as well as restoration of soil health. This is due to the fact that active soil aeration, mulching and organic fertilization adds additional organic matter to the soil, reduces soil erosion, and effectively improves nutrient cycling, which in turn helps to create better soil structure and fertility. Breeding more sustainable rice varieties for sustainable cultivation Modern rice breeding programs need to accommodate changes in new rice varieties so that they are more amenable to sustainable agriculture. Currently, most of the AWD practices have been implemented on pure line rice varieties. It has been observed that hybrid rice varieties which have a better yield potential, enhanced competitiveness against weeds, are short duration and drought tolerant due to more extensive root systems offer a net benefit with respect to water usage and GHG emitted per unit yield. Furthermore, rice varieties are being developed by adopting genetic approaches which alter allocation of photosynthates to biomass above ground rather than roots, which in turn decreases methanogen-enhancing root exudates.