 Greenhouse horticulture would no longer require physical proximity, enabling remote and automated execution, monitoring, control and coordination of greenhouse operations by different stakeholders. This caters for the decoupling of physical flows from information aspects of horticultural processes. Artificial intelligence Artificial intelligence (AI) refers to systems that display intelligent behaviour by analyzing their environment and taking actions–with some degree of autonomy–to achieve specific goals. Looking at its modernity, it is being adopted in the large agricultural sector in India as well. Artificial intelligence is becoming an increasingly integrated and important part of agricultural applications. It is being used for its ability to process large amounts of data and make accurate predictions. Artificial intelligence is being used to improve crop yields, optimize irrigation and fertilizer practices, and reduce the impact of pests and diseases. One of the major areas where artificial intelligence is being applied in agriculture is the development of algorithms. It can generate and interpret large datasets. An algorithm is being used to identify patterns and trends in agricultural data. It is used to develop agricultural practices. Another area where it is being applied in agriculture is the development of autonomous robots. Autonomous robots can perform tasks such as weed control and crop monitoring. Drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) A drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV) is a flying robot that can fly without a pilot on board. Drones can be remotely controlled or fly autonomously using software-controlled flight plans. They are powered by an electric motor and have modern equipment like GPS, radar control, infrared and high- resolution cameras. Drones in agriculture can be used as pay per services or can be bought and stationed on farms. Software as a service (SaaS) Software as a service (SaaS) is the more economical and scalable way to upgrade to digital farming. Merits of digital interventions in agriculture y Near real-time monitoring. y Standard package of practices. y Readily available and accessible management through smartphones and PCs. y Geotagging for accountability and accurate predictability. y Satellite and weather input-based advisory. y Robust and flexible system for farm management. y Alert log and management of pest infestation, diseases, etc. y Crop reports and insights- easy reporting. AI and IoTs in horticulture Indian Horticulture 6 Digital solution in crop production and management The integration of automated procedures in horticulture increases the productivity as well as the quality of the products. The crop is affected by many factors such as temperature, humidity and topography of the surrounding environment. Achieving ideal values for these factors and optimizing their consequences depend on the type of the crops cultivated.