 An OMICS approach for elucidating the mechanism of Pashmina fibre development: Transcriptomic approach was used for identification of markers for the fibre yield. Eight skin samples (4 each from low fibre producing and high fibre producing pashmina goat) were WUE for grain yield of RILs of HD2967xC306 under drought stress conditions. 15 Salient Achievements of the Projects collected for RNA-Sequencing. Thirty candidate genes and 5000 high impact SNPs were identified to be associated with high fibre yield. High fibre growth is mainly associated with the upregulation of growth factors in HY group, major growth factors up-regulated in HY group includes FGFR4, FGF21, FGF22, IGF1 and IGF2. And BMP and mTOR signalling pathway have major role for enhancing hair growth. Skin transcriptome profiles associated with coat colour in Pashmina goat were studied. Six skin samples (2 white, 2 black and 2 brown) were collected for RNA-Sequencing. A total of 33 gene in melanogenesis pathway have been identified which act as key regulators for fibre colouring. The sequencing data were submitted to the Genome Expression Omnibus (GEO) database (Accession Number GSE107249) in National Centre for Biotechnology research – NCBI. Skin transcriptome profiles associated with different cycling stages were also studied. All data were made available online through an intuitive, researcher-friendly and interactive web interface called Pashmina informatics database (PIDB), available at http://pashminainformatics. skuastk.org/ Proteome profiling of Pashmina skin using various methods of protein extraction was carried out using different extraction protocols by LC-MS/MS and generated data were searched using swissprot mammalian database and data generated from transcriptomic experiments. Identified genes are involved in fibre keratinization, fibre cycle, fibre color (melanogenesis), cell differentiation, cell apoptosis and cell proliferation. Lactation stress associated postpartum anoestrus SNP array in buffaloes: Serum free fatty acids (FFA) were estimated by colorimetric assay. Among the lactating and heifers Results showed significantly higher (P <0.05) levels of FFA in lactating buffaloes than in heifers till 4 weeks postpartum, suggesting that there was a negative energy balance in lactating buffaloes till week 4 on the basis of FFA. Bioinformatic analyses to identify the differentially expressed genes between heifers (control) and lactation stress buffaloes was done. The top 30 selected pathways from KEGG, Reactome and Wikipathways are presented. Significant pathways with FDR < 0.05 were encircled. A total of 17 genes were consistently upregulated Expression dynamics of common genes among control, 15th day and 30th day of lactation. Whole genome assembly and structural variant analysis of Pashmina goat genome.