 113 ) Mangifera indica Fazil region Bihar 2009 It has a soft outer peel and its size is also big (around 1kg/fruit) as compared to other varieties. Malihabadi mangoes/ Dusseheri (GI tag. 125 ) Mangifera indica Malihabad region Uttar Pradesh Malhiabad is also known as the 'Mango Capital of India'. Mangoes from Malihabad are sold in various parts of the country as well as exported to the US and other nations. Gir Kesar mango (GI tag. 185 ) Mangifera indica Junagadh region Gujarat 2011 The mango is known for its bright orange coloured pulp. The Kesar mango is grown in the districts of Junagadh and Amreli in the Saurashtra region of Gujarat. November–December 2021 39 Name of GI Scientific name Area State Registered year Unique characteristics Representative photograph Banaganapalle mango (GI tag. 241) Mangifera indica Banganpalli Andra Pradesh 2017 It also known as ‘Beneshan’, ‘Baneshan’ and ‘Benishan’. The fruits can retain their quality under cold storage even up to three months. Bhagalpuri Zardalu (GI tag. 551) Mangifera indica Bhagalpuri area Bihar 2018 Popular for its aroma, has persisted a mainstay on the state government’s annual present repertoire directed to be gifted to an assortment of an odd 40 VVIPs including the Hon’ble President of India and the Prime Minister. Coorg mandarin (GI tag. 33) Citrus reticulata Coorg Karnataka 2004 It is a traditional crop variety and to provide high quality (disease-free) plant material, bringing economic development to the region. Nagpur orange (GI tag. 385) Citrus reticulata Nagpur belt Maharashtra 2013 This flavour is result of a unique acid-sugar blend that is not found in any other orange across the world. Arunachal Wakro orange (GI tag. 375) Citrus reticulata Wakro belt Arunachal Pradesh 2014 Arunachal Wakro orange has been exported to Bangladesh and from there to other countries in other names depriving the state of its intellectual property right. It is more popular for its attractive packages for export. Khasi mandarin (GI tag. 465) Citrus reticulata Khasi region Meghalaya 2014 It can be used for the preparation of a number of processed products like orange marmalade, bottled and canned juices, squash, jam, jelly etc. Kachai lemon (GI tag. 466) Citrus limon Ukhrul district Manipur 2014 Kachai Lemon is considered to be unique as it contains 51% ascorbic acid, the highest so far available in the realm of citrus fruits. It is the only lemon variety has GI tag in India. Jalna sweet orange (GI tag. 495) Citrus sinensis Jalna region Maharashtra 2015 Jalna Sweet Orange variety is known as ‘Nucellar variety’ which is famous for higher peel (rind) thickness which gives highest protection to the pulp due to higher potassium and nitrogen content. Devanahalli Pomelo (GI tag.131 ) Citrus maxima Devanahalli, Bengaluru rural Karnataka 2009 The Devanahalli Pomelo has a unique, sweet taste, unlike other local varieties which have a bitter taste.