 However, despite clear demonstration of profits from horticultural crops, many farmers are below poverty level. The n and natural endowments are not really sufficient to make farmers rich. Water scarcity is one of the major constraints and hence huge gap between crop productivity and achievable yield exist for different crops including both field and horticultural commodities. To great extent limited infrastructures for post harvest storage and processing further limits income from perishable horticultural commodities and also important pulse crops. Several technologies and success stories have been demonstrated by SAUs and ICAR-institutes in the state which needs to replicated as they have great potential to enhance the income for farmers. Since profit from single commodity or sector is unlikely to help in doubling the farmers income, it is essential to develop site specific integrated farming system modules involving crops, horticulture, livestock and fisheries wherever feasible. Such systems can significantly contribute to sustainable and more income for the farmers. There is a lot of scope for enhancement of farmers’ income through technological interventions for increasing the production through enhanced productivity, reduction in cost of cultivation through input use efficiency and enhancing the remuneration for product through market reforms and value addition. This can be achieved through integrating the farm activities with well thought government schemes at central and state level. The plan for implementation of strategies for doubling the farmers income in Maharasthra should start with delineation of agro-climatic features at district level supported by technological interventions for enhancing the productivity, reducing the cost and income generation through diversification, intensification and improved marketing support involving information technological tools. The plan should bring together all the promising technologies to design appropriate site specific Integrated Farming System modules for each district. This needs involvement of SAUs, ICAR institutes in the state and department of agriculture of the State. Improved infrastructure for post harvest storage, value addition and direct marketing can significantly contribute towards doubling farmer’s income. The agriculture prices are not fixed taking into livelihood needs of the farmers. The rising inflation always had a double impact on farmers with increasing costs of living and decreasing incomes due to reduction in agriculture prices as a result of price intervention mechanisms of the government. Minimum Support Prices are announced for 25 commodities and market 353 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 intervention operations exist only for rice and wheat. So farmers growing other crops are left to the mercy of the markets. Hence, i. MSPs should take into account actual costs of cultivation and living costs (corrected to inflation rise) ii.