 Unit 8: Strategic Management Strategic management - meaning, concept and scope; framework for strategic management; industrial (external) and organizational (internal) environmental factors influencing strategy; scanning the external and internal environment; core competencies and resource strengths; SWOT analysis; strategy formulation and implementation; generic strategies; strategy and technology, strategy and leadership, total quality management, the customer resource, creating competitive advantage, evaluation of strategy. Unit 9: Project Management and Entrepreneurship Development Concept, characteristics of projects, types of projects, project identification, and Project's life cycle; Project feasibility- market feasibility, technical feasibility, financial feasibility, and economic feasibility, social cost-benefit analysis, project risk analysis; Network Methods; Project scheduling and resource allocation; Financial appraisal/evaluation techniques; Project control and information system. Entrepreneurship, Significance of entrepreneurship in economic development qualities of entrepreneur, entrepreneurship development programs and role of various institutions in developing entrepreneurship, life cycles of new business, environmental factors affecting success of a new business, reasons for the failure and visible problems for business, Developing effective business plans, Procedural steps in setting up of an industry. 123 15 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION 15.1 AGRICULTURAL EXTENSION Unit 1: Fundamentals of Extension and Communication Concepts and scope of extension and communication particularly for primary and secondary agriculture. Historical and emerging perspectives of agricultural, veterinary and animal husbandry extension education in India and other countries. Community Development and Integrated Rural Development- concept, principles and objectives. Role of agricultural extension in different sectors of agriculture and rural development. Agricultural Extension in the context of enhancing productivity, Quality, Nutrition, post-harvest technology, product processing, Profitability, Income and Employment. Concepts of yield gaps. FLD and OFT in relation to TOT programmes. Farming System Research and Extension (FSR&E) and participatory development approaches. Concept and modules of communication, credibility, fidelity, empathy and feedback in communication. Similarities and dissimilarities among extension education, adult education and continuing/distance education. Andragogy and theories of adult learning. Human behavioural dimensions and gender sensitivity in extension education programmes. Meaning and characteristics of attitude, factors affecting attitude change; Understanding of basic rural institutions, social structure, culture and norms. Social and technological change processes, group dynamics, concepts and theories of rural leadership.