 The timing of road construction in an eligible village was determined by its rank relative to that of other eligible villages in the state, with ranks generated using village population size (PMGSY, 2005). By 2006, larger eligible villages had received program roads while smaller eligible villages had not. I classify program-eligible villages that receive PMGSY roads by 2006 as treated and program-eligible villages that receive PMGSY roads after 2006 as control. The second, which I refer to as an incidental connection, exploits the fact that some ineligible villages were also exposed to new program roads. This occurred in cases where eligible villages received a new road under PMGSY, and the program road linked them to a nearby in- eligible village. This nearby village thus gained a road linkage through the program, despite being classified as ineligible. I classify program- ineligible villages that are connected to a program-eligible village in their proximity through a PMGSY road constructed by 2006 as treated. While using all program-ineligible villages that did not receive an incidental treatment would appear to be a natural control group, this could easily violate the parallel trends assumption. For example, a village within a densely connected area where all neighboring villages are connected could possibly trend differentially from a village within a more sparsely connected area, where some neighboring villages are connected, but there exists other unconnected, eligible villages in their proximity. As such, I construct a control group for the incidentally treated that is analogous to the control group for the directly treated — this group consists of all program-ineligible villages with program- eligible villages in their proximity that have yet to receive a PMGSY road by 2006.17 Incorporating incidental connections has numerous important ad- vantages. First, it allows me to estimate the impacts of additional road connectivity, given that most incidental villages are already connected at baseline. Despite having a pre-existing all-weather road, there can be substantial gains in agriculture from an expansion of the rural road network. For example, additional road connectivity to a previously un- connected village can potentially lead to access to new markets to hire farm labor. It could also reduce transaction costs for extension workers and traders who travel to clusters of villages to promote/sell farm 15 Household interviews for the REDS 2006 survey were canvassed over several years, starting from 2006 and ending in 2009. For ease of exposition, I will stick to NCAER’s notation and refer to this wave as REDS 2006. 16 Conversely, ineligible villages consist of villages that are already con- nected (i.e. within 500 meters of an all-weather road or another village with an all-weather road) and unconnected villages with a population less than 500.