 G Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Attracting Private Sector Investments in R&D Public funds for partnerships with the private sector for social and public good objectives will be earmarked as a new policy initiative. A National Science, Technology and Innovation Foundation will be established as a Public- Private Partnership (PPP) initiative for investing critical levels of resources in innovative and ambitious projects. The focus of the policy will be: • Facilitating private sector investment in R&D centres in India and overseas. • Promoting establishment of large R&D facilities in PPP mode with provisions for benefits sharing. • Permitting multi stakeholders participation in the Indian R&D system. • Treating R&D in the private sector at par with public institutions for availing public funds. • Bench marking of R&D funding mechanisms and patterns globally. • Modifying IPR policy to provide for marching rights for social good when supported by public funds and for co-sharing IPRs generated under PPP. • Launching newer mechanisms for nurturing Technology Business Incubators (TBls) and science-led entrepreneurship. • Providing incentives for commercialization of innovations with focus on green manufacturing. Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 CD Delivery Systems for STI Outputs to Stake Holders and Society Diffusion of scientific outputs and technology interventions into social systems is a multi- layered process. Except for the mission-oriented strategic sectors, the delivery mechanism involves a large number of intermediaries both from the public and private sectors. This requires strengthening of linkages between the scientific and socio-economic sectors. The STI policy will leverage the R&D allocations of socio-economic ministries through a shared vision, mission- oriented approach and adoption of new delivery models with provisions for accountability. The state governments constitute important stakeholders. Measures will be taken to ensure that state-specific S&T vision and plans are informed and guided by the new STI Policy towards which State S&T Councils/Boards will be strengthened. NGOs will be accorded a pivotal role in the delivery of STI outputs, especially rural technologies, to the grassroots level. Ecosystem Changes for Science, Technology and Innovation Special and innovative mechanisms for fostering academia-research-industry partnerships will be devised. Mobility of experts from academia to industry and vice-versa will be facilitated. Success stories in S&T-based innovations from Indian experience would be replicated and Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 scaled up. Regulatory and legal framework for sharing of IPRs between inventors and investors will be put in place. Measures to close gaps in the translation of new R&D findings and grassroot innovations into the commercial space will be taken.