 The electron microscopy clearly revealed the separation of spore and crystal protein. To study the individual toxicity of the Cry8Sa1 and Cry8Ib, purified crystal protein fraction was used to conduct bioassay against 1st, 2nd and 3rd larval instars. The bioassay results indicated that only Cry8Sa1 toxin exhibited significantly higher mortality of up to 96% in the replications. The study showed that Cry8Sa1 is an ideal and potent candidate for developing white grub (H. serrata) resistant transgenics in sugarcane. Genome editing for imparting PRSV resistance: In order to impart resistance against Papaya Ring Spot Virus (PRSV), a high throughput papaya transformation and regeneration protocol towards genome editing of the eIF4E gene family was established and CRISPR/Cas9 mediated editing of eIF4E gene family was undertaken. For CRISPR-Cas13A mediated editing of PRSV genome, two different constructs were developed. The first construct was developed in a binary vector where LshCas13a and gRNA expression cassette were introduced. The second construct was developed in a TRV RNA2 vector which could express a specific gRNA expression cassette under PEBV promoter. For the gRNAs, spacer sequences were designed from Vpg and other genes like CP, HC-Pro. The binary construct was agro-infiltrated into leaf of squash plant (a host of PRSV) followed by rub inoculation of PRSV. The treated plants did not show any symptoms, while only PRSV inoculated plant showed severe symptom of the disease. CRISPR-Cas13a mediated editing of PRSV genome by transient delivery systems and evaluation of their efficacy against PRSV infection in squash plant. A) Binary vector harboring LshCas13a and gRNA expression cassette, B) Modified TRV RNA2 vector expressing LshCas13a- specific gRNA expression cassette under PEBV promoter, C) Cloning of spacer sequences in Cas13a modules and D) Assay of the Cas13a-gRNA construct followed by challenge inoculation of PRSV. Only PRSV inoculated plants as Control showed severe mosaic while Cas13a- gRNA treated plants did not show any symptoms after challenge inoculation.