 However, organizing Institute of training reflected in the ATP may be changed with another suitably competent training Institute at the Institute level. 12. Less than 3 days training for any category shall not be promoted in general because training for capacity building in 1-2 days is not feasible.† 13. HRD Nodal Officer is always expected to show the information to the Director and after having his/her approval mention in all communications sent to the Council that†it has approval of the Director of the Institute, particularly whenever a†new information is submitted to HQs. 14. HRD Nodal Officer should not be changed at least before a tenure of 3 years, as frequent changes hamper the development and progress of HRD activities of the Institute. 15. Every employee shall enter the training information in the ERP system within a week after completion of the training through individual Login ID and Password provided by IASRI, New Delhi. In case of any difficulty, contact at the mail and phone no.: icarerphelp@iasri.res.in, support.erp@iasri.res.in; 91-11- 25842274, 25842275, 25842276. TA/DA bills of employeesí undergone training shall be processed only after confirmation of the entry of training details in the ERP system by the HRD Nodal Officer. 16. A brief note alongwith photographs of any kind of training organized by the Institute may be sent to Director, DKMA for placing on the ICAR website, with a copy to HRM Unit within 2-3 days of organizing the training. 17. The information in hard copy shall not be sent to HRM Unit until and unless it is specifically requested. The HRM Unit has almost achieved 100% paperless communication with the Institutes. ëSave paper for the future and support Green and Clean India Driveí Sd/- (AK Vyas) ADG (HRM) Distribution: 1. All Directors of Institutes 2. Deputy Secretary (TS &WS), ICAR HQs, New Delhi 3. Sr. PPS to Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR, New Delhi 4. All HRD Nodal Officers of Institutes 44 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) Annexure - IV No. 4-10/2016-HRM/157 Dated the 30th May, 2018 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Sub: Training costs/Budget plan for programmes to be organized by ICAR-Institutes for ICAR employees (from HRD Fund of ICAR-Institutes) The Competent Authority of ICAR has approved the Training costs/Budget plan for programmes to be organized by ICAR-Institutes for all the categories of ICAR employees from HRD fund of ICAR-Institutes in order to have uniform budgetary provisions throughout the ICAR system with the judicious and economic utilization of HRD fund of Organizing and Sponsoring Institutes. This is effective from the financial year 2016-17: Operational Head/Item of Expenditure Travel Cost Rate To be borne by i. TA for participating trainees Actuals as per Sponsoring entitlement Institute of the trainee ii. DA for participating trainees As per entitlement -do- iii. POL including hiring of vehicle Actuals Organizing for educational tour/study visit/ Institute of field visit, etc.