 Various efforts on pest management have achieved varying extent of impact leading to food security to the nation. The pest management which was chemical centric initially moved towards ecofriendly integrated pest management with an optimum substitute of chemicals by blend of non-chemical measures. Location specific IPM strategies for field, commercial, vegetable and fruit crops were developed, validated and disseminated with proven economic and ecological benefits. Implementation of ICT-based e-pest surveillance and digital dissemination of advisories across different states facilitated adoption of scientific pest management by the farming community. The R&D set up and plant protection industries, have all paraphernalia needed for an effective preparedness and management of pest. While past has been glorious with some pathbreaking achievements, the future challenges are rather formidable in view of changes in cropping systems and climate change, which have escalated the dynamism in pest’ infestation with higher risks. It requires a converged functioning of plant protection stakeholders. The quarantine and pest surveillance needs networking, international cooperation, artificial intelligence, diagnosis and data analytics. The biocontrol agents are the potential tool for pest management for which the entrepreneurial capacity in farm women, rural youth and agri-graduates needs to be developed for their mass production. The major development in plant protection has been described in this chapter. 1. Introduction Crop pests include weeds, insects, rodents, nematodes, and pathogens - fungal, oomycete, bacterial, viral, and mycoplasmas. The use of the pesticides has been one of the major strategies to reduce the damages caused by these pests. In India, the insecticides use is 44% followed by herbicides (22%). Despite the extensive worldwide use of pesticides, there are massive losses to pests (Oerke 2006). A recent global level study on crop losses in the main Indian Agriculture after Independence 210 food security hotspots (including the Indo-Gangetic plains) for five major crops showed significant losses by pests (weeds excluded) that ranged from 10.1-28.1% for wheat, 24.6- 40.4% for rice, 19.5-41.1% for maize, 8.1-21% for potato, and 11-32.4% for soybean (Savary et al. 2019). Losses could be due to either warmer climate and or lack of access to more effective pesticides. It is projected that losses to insect pests and pathogens will increase with global warming (Deutsch et al. 2018; Velasquez et al. 2018). The ‘arms race’ between the pests and the hosts is real; this should be clear to everyone after the Covid-19 pandemic. Pests can be dealt with either by pesticides or by genetic means by mobilizing resistance-conferring genes from the landraces or the wild relatives of the crop by crossing and in case of more distantly related species by genetic engineering technologies.