 However, due to manpower shortages during the height of crop growth and high laborer wages in the commer- cial agriculture production system, weed management in the North Western Himalayas mostly relies on the use of prescribed herbi- cides (atrazine in maize and vesta, isoproturon in wheat crop). Consequently, aim of the current experiment was to ascertain how the weed composition, phyto-sociology, and diversity chan- ged when tillage, residue, and various weed control techniques were used in a cropping system involving maize (Zea mays L.) and wheat (Triticum aestivum L.). 2. Material and methods 2.1. Study area At the CSK Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya’s Research Farm of Agronomy in Palampur (H.P.), India (32060 N, 7630 E, 1280 m above mean sea level), a ﬁeld experiment was conducted from the summer of 2018 through the winter of 2019–2020. The experimental location features a mid-hill zone with a sub- temperate environment and is located at 1290 m above mean sea level. As silty clay loamy with 21% clay, 43% silt, and 36% sand, the soil at the experimental site is classiﬁed by the USDA. 2.2. Experimental details Table 1 provides a quick summary of the experimental thera- pies. Both years’ summer and winter seasons saw the delivery of pre-sowing irrigation at a depth of 5 cm. With the exception of the zero tillage treatment, a rotary power tiller was used to prepare the plots. The conventional tillage (CT) plots were prepared for the experiment by being plowed to a ﬁne tilth. This was accomplished by leveling, harrowing twice, and plowing once. There was no ad- ditional fertilizer applied to the intercrops of soybean grown in ad- ditive series and mustard grown in replacement series. The recommendations of the package of practices were followed in the application of all other production methods, excluding tillage and weed control measures, to both crops. Every single one of the main crops and intercrops was manually harvested when it was time. 2.3. Count of weed A 0.5 m  0.5 m quadrate was used to count weeds in both crops, and the mean value of two was calculated. The quadrate was placed at two random locations inside each experimental unit. To determine the overall weed density in a given treatment, the populations of several weed species were added. By adding togeth- er each individual weed count made during the observing period, the total weed count was calculated. 2.4. Data analysis 2.4.1. Weed phyto-sociology The study of the links between weed populations and various crops and cropping systems, which inﬂuence the periods of control S. Kumar, S.S. Rana, N. Sharma et al. Journal of King Saud University – Science 35 (2023) 102728 2 and/or coexistence between crops and weeds, is attempted in agro- ecosystems using phyto-sociological surveys.