0 /5.0 with good agricultural practice and new way of connectivity of digital and physical world. 4.7. Digital Twin and Metaverse The transformation of agriculture sector is moving to accomplish the demands of efficient and sustainable production. In this attempt, a digital twin is another step forward to modern smart farming. It is a digital replica of a real-world entity that is kept updated with constant inflow of data and simulates not just the physical and biological state but also the behaviour of the real-world entity based on input data (Neethirajan and Kemp, 2021) (Figure 38). It helps in predicting, optimizing, and improving decision making. Integration of Digital Twin (DT) and Generative Artificial Intelligence (AI) has emerged as promising technology in agricultural sector (Du et al.2023). By leveraging immersive virtual environments and AI- driven technologies, stakeholders in the agricultural sector may enhance productivity, sustainability, and resilience in farming practices while fostering global connectivity and knowledge exchange (Nie et al.2022). (Source: Neethirajan and Kemp, 2021) Figure 38: The relationship between digital twin and the physical asset Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 4.6. Cyber Agrophysical System (CAPS) Cyber Agro-Physical System (CAPS) is Cyber Physical System in agriculture, in which computation/ information processing and physical processes are tightly integrated and non- separable from the behavioural point of view; where functionality and salient system characteristics are emerging through the interaction of physical and computational objects and computers, networks, devices and their environments in which they are embedded have interacting physical properties, consume resources and contribute to the overall system behaviour. Such agricultural systems and approaches constitute the paradigm of intelligent agriculture, based on quality, efficiency and _ sustainability requirements. The implementation of such a system could be made by degrees, stepwise increasingly both the production diversity and the automation level, thus ensuring a lean transition from a monoculture specialized agricultural enterprise towards a flexible, diversified, adaptive improved version and making agriculture as Industry 4.0 /5.0 with good agricultural practice and new way of connectivity of digital and physical world. 4.7. Digital Twin and Metaverse The transformation of agriculture sector is moving to accomplish the demands of efficient and sustainable production. In this attempt, a digital twin is another step forward to modern smart farming. It is a digital replica of a real-world entity that is kept updated with constant inflow of data and simulates not just the physical and biological state but also the behaviour of the real-world entity based on input data (Neethirajan and Kemp, 2021) (Figure 38). It helps in predicting, optimizing, and improving decision making.