 The applicator consists of two Green seeker sensors, which sense the crop health through normalised difference vegetation index (NDVI), two metering units (fluted rollers) and dispensing units (spinning disks) mounted on an aluminium frame. The GPS enabled android based smart phone (android 2.3- 5.0) with USB-OTG is used for its operation. A “Variable Rate Controller” app has also been developed. An estimated 8-15% savings in urea fertilizer can be achieved Bullock operated Power tiller operated Tractor operated DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 85 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 86 Pre-emergence herbicide strip applicator-cum-planter It consists of a frame on which 6 flat fan spray nozzles are mounted by means of clamps, a single action piston pump with 9 l/min capacity, pressure regulator valve, and pressure gauge and pressure pipes. The spacing between the spray nozzles, angle and height of spray nozzles can be varied by adjusting the clamps. The developed system has the ability of strip as well as blanket application of herbicides. The machine was tested and evaluated during kharif season for soybean and pigeon pea crops. The field capacity of the developed system is 0.4 ha/h with an operating cost 0.19, 0.24 and 0.29 ha/h with field efficiency of 53, 60 and 61% at an operating speed of 1.9, 2.1 and 2.5 km/h, respectively. The seedlings per hill are 2-4 and floating hills range 1-3% for all combinations. Stem applicator as an attachment to power-weeder for cotton crop The stem applicator attachment for a power weeder (2.6 kW) can apply recommended dose of herbicide on cotton crop. The herbicide was applied to one side of the plant stem at a time. The equipment is suitable for performing both weeding and herbicide stem application simultaneously in cotton crop. The effective field capacity and field efficiency of the equipment were 0.06 ha/h and 84%, respectively at a forward speed of 1.2 km/h. The fuel consumption was observed to be 1.2 l/h or 25 l/ha. Animal lifting device for sick bullocks and equines It comprises of a frame structure made of mild steel (50 × 4.5 mm); worm-gear type lifting winch with steel wire ropes and pulleys; slings with water proof fabric and padded broader belts; and transport wheels. The overall dimensions of the device when fully assembled are 3605 × 2330 × 2508 (L × W × H mm). Stem applicator attached with power weeder for cotton Animal lifting device Sick bullock lifted with the device Herbicide strip applicator-cum-planter The paddy transplanter as an attachment with the tractor ` 1,350/ha thus saving 40-50% herbicide. The same machine can be used as post-emergence herbicide/ pesticide applicator after the removal of furrow openers and increasing the height of nozzles from the ground. The initial cost of the applicator with inclined plate planter is approximately ` 70,000.