  1 Proceedings of the Conference of Vice-chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors held on 17–18 February, 2010 Annual Conference of the Vice Chancellors of the Agricultural Universities and Directors of the Deemed Universities was held at the National Agricultural Science Centre, Dev Prakash Shastri Marg, New Delhi during February 17–18, 2010. On this occasion, an interface meeting of VCs with ICAR Directors, Zonal Coordinators and Project Coordinators was also organized on 17th February 2010. Hon’ble Union Minister of the Agriculture, Consumer Affairs Food & Public Distribution, Govt. of India, Shri Sharad Pawar ji inaugurated the Conference on 17th February 2010. Prof. K.V. Thomas ji, Union Minister of State for Agriculture, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, Govt. of India was the guest of honour. List of participants is annexed. Hon’ble Union Agricultural Minister Shri Sharad Pawar Ji appreciated the efforts towards establishment of Niche Areas of Excellence and Learning Units, modernization of research and instructional farms, increasing use of ICT tools towards enhancing quality education, research and technology development capabilities as also inculcating corporate practices in them. For excellence, he emphasized the need for models of public–private partnerships. He applauded the creation of a chair of National Professor named “Norman Borlaug Chair in Agricultural Biotechnology for Crop Improvement” this year as a tribute to Prof. Norman Borlaug, the Father of Green Revolution. He exhorted the scientists, educationists, extortionists and policy manager for greater technological and awareness inputs and transparency in addressing the issues such as Bt brinjal. Prof. K. V. Thomas ji, the Union Minister of State for Agriculture, Consumer Affairs, Food and Public Distribution, emphasized the need for a big push in the higher education sector in agriculture and allied subjects — both economically and technologically. He called for a three-fold increase in the number of PhDs, Post Doctoral, Masters and Bachelor degree holders and integrating PhD students with the research priorities of ICAR. Without working out the numbers and prioritizing research engagement especially 2 in cutting edge areas like nano technology, biotechnology and instrumentation in agriculture, historic momentum in agriculture cannot be fully sustained. He also emphasized on strengthening international cooperation, and private sector participation in the field of agricultural research. Prior to them, Dr Arvind Kumar, Deputy Director General (Education), ICAR in his welcome speech remarked that this meeting was historical as for the first time, a joint meeting of VCs of AUs, Directors of ICAR Institutes, Zonal Project Coordinators, Project Coordinators of AICRPs is being organized. Dr R.B.