 On the line of IIMs, IITs, AIIMS, this is the high time to establish world class institutions of higher agricultural education in the country mainly focussing PG teaching and related research to attract and nurture the best talent and also draw more number of foreign students. For globalizing agricultural education, campuses can be set up abroad; more collaborative projects may be initiated along with more student exchange programmes. Public funding in several states to AUs especially to newly created one has to improve. Instead of creating new universities, the existing universities should be strengthened. There should be serious efforts for reduced academic inbreeding, improving quality and number of faculty. For better employability of students focus may be given for attaining excellence in areas of strategic importance such as IPRs, WTO- related areas, techno-legal specialties, Agri-business, etc. New centres/Meta-universities under emerging cutting-edge technologies, viz. biosensors, genomics, biotechnology, nanotechnology, biotic & abiotic stress management, etc. may be thought of. There is need for institutional capacity building, and establishing linkages/partnerships with other institutions/stakeholders and faculty and students exchange programmes. The number and scope of fellowships needs to be substantially enlarged to attract and retain the young talents.As more jobs are being created in private sector in the developing countries including India, there is a growing interest among the students from the developed countries to come and study in India to understand Indian Agriculture. Therefore, it is recommended that good hostel and transit accommodation facilities are created at the AUs to attract good students and faculty from the developed countries. After completing Ph. D. degree, the candidates may be given ad-hoc appointment as Research Pool Officer to maintain their research tempo. Salient recommendations of the Dr. R.S. Paroda Committee Report (2019) pertaining to youth in agriculture are as under: Earn while you learn programme Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 61 National Mission on Youth in Agriculture The Committee has emphasised for National Mission on Youth in Agriculture to build new skills in youth for innovative agriculture through both formal and informal education with the major objective to impart better knowledge and skill to youth on (i) sustainable, secondary and specialty agriculture, (ii) efficient knowledge dissemination, including information communication technology (ICT), (iii) technical backstopping for innovative farming, (iv) new agri-business models, and (v) entrepreneurship as well as linking farmers to markets through value chain. The committee has stressed upon the importance of imparting agricultural education right from the school level and initiation of entrepreneurship training through vocational and formal diploma programs by the CAUs, SAUs and ICAR institutes.