 Focus group interactions were organized to identify the farmers voluntarily to participate in the validation process. The hand tools as per the specification of guddeli (Fig. 1) were fabricated with the help of local artisan during May 2002. Experiment Five farmers representing different categories were selected and trained to acquaint the various methodologies to implement the programme of validation. Based up on the interaction of the selected farmers, an understanding was developed between the farmers and facilitators of the investigation in selection of the experimental sites, implementation of the programme and collection of the pertainent data. The data of the investigation were jointly collected by the farmers and facilitators. This process facilitated increase in the participation of the farming community and also in bringing about awareness on the utility of the indigenous implements and recording the farmers' indicators on the efficiency and effectiveness of the implements under his own situation. Each farmer was treated as a replication, and statistical analysis of data was computed for   FARM IMPLEMENTS various parameters to find out actual effectiveness of the treatments. The parameters such as field capacity and energy required to carry out the operation using different hand tools were worked out based upon the following considerations. Field capacity: It is the actual average rate of field coverage by the implement (ha/day or ha/ hr) Energy expenditure: To obtain better comparative results the energy required to carry out interculture and weeding operations under each treatment were converted into energy units using standard conversion factors and the total energy expenditure per hectare was calculated. The experiment with the following four treatments was conducted in Girgitpally village of Ranga Reddy district on Andhra Pradesh with five farmers. Ginger (local variety) was taken as the test crop. T 1:farmers method of planting, T 2: planting with guddeli, T 3: farmers method of harvesting, and T 4: Harvesting with guddeli. Observations were taken on the following aspects: 1. Field capacity of the implements (ha/day), 2. Total energy expenditure (MJ/ha), 3. Cost of each operation for various implements, 4. Cost of production (Rs/ha), 5. Gross income (Rs/ha), 6. Net income (Rs/ha), 7. Cost benefit ratio and 8. Farmers reaction (performance of the treatments). RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Experiment The experimental site where the programme was implemented experienced delayed monsoon Table 1. Field capacity, energy, cost of planting, yield, gross income and net income as influenced by tools in ginger planting Treatments Field capacity Energy Cost of planting Yield Gross income Net income (ha/day ) (MJ/ha) (Rs/ha) (kg/ha) (Rs/ha) (Rs/ha) T1 Farmers method 0.020 4461.368 1,225 12,695 1,52,340 87,165 of planting T2 Planting with 0.029 337.152 1,000 13,020 1,56,240 91,290 guddeli Result S S S NS NS NS S, Significant; NS, nonsignificant.