 Interpretation: The above table no 4 reveals that production of various horticulture crops from 2018-19 to 2021-22. Here horticulture crops include fruits, vegetables, aromatic crops, flowers, honey, plantation crops and spices. It is observed that in the year 2018-19, out of seven crops the highest production achieved by vegetables. Even in the year 2021-22 also the highest production achieved by vegetables only comparatively others. The least production achieved by honey crop during four years study period. The second highest production achieved by fruits during the four years study period. It is observed that the fruits crop production has been increased from 97.97 million tonnes to 107.24 million tonnes from the year 2018-19 to 2021-22. It is also observed that the second least production of crops achieved by aromatic crops during the study period. The third highest production achieved by plantation crops during the study period and there is no much difference among the four years production of plantation crops. Findings 1. From the table no 1, it is identified that there was a tremendous positive trend in case of total food grain production for the study period. 2. It is also found that from the table no 1, there was a tremendous increasing trend in case of maize and oil seeds crops from the period 1950-51 to 2021-22. 3. From the table no 2, it is found that the remarkable feature of wheat production that is out of ten major crops the highest yield per hectare achieved by wheat crop. 4. It is also found from table no 2, though there was tremendous increase in the yield of cotton crop from the period 1950-51 to 2021-22, comparatively with other major crops, the cotton crop yield per hectare is very less. 5. The notable feature identified that the sugar productivity achieved by India in the year 2020 is the highest among six countries in the world. 6. Another important feature identified that in case of paddy productivity also India achieved the acceptable production. 7. It is found that from the table no 4, the highest production achieved by vegetable crops. 8. It is identified that from the table no 4, out of seven horticulture crops the second highest production made by fruits. Conclusion The Indian economy is supported by various contributions from various sectors. Agriculture sector is playing a pivotal role and making a significant contribution to the country's economic development. Numerous factors, both positive and negative, influence the growth of the agriculture sector in India. The study reveals that the agriculture sector has consistently made substantial contributions to the Indian economy. Compared to other countries, India has achieved remarkable progress in the production of agricultural crops. Despite the challenges such as micro and macro environmental conditions and certain government policies, the production of various crops has shown an upward trend during the study period.