 It is imperative for buffalo farmers to remember that weaning and pre-weaning system plays an important role in promoting growth at young age and thus help in achieving early puberty. Buffalo farmers must ensure proper heifer management from birth to maintain a correct weight gain. A average daily gain (ADG) of about 400 to 550 g is required to get a pubertal heifer at around 2 years of age. Also, buffalo farmers must ensure adequate dietary energy, protein and minerals intake for optimum age of puberty in buffalo heifers. With the help of a veterinarian, buffalo farmer may opt for mimicking of endocrine changes occurring during puberty using exogenous hormonal administrations. Towards this end, progesterone releasing intra-vaginal device (PRID) along with pregnant mare serum gonadotrophin (PMSG) can be used to induce estrus in non- cyclic buffalo heifers. Seasonality and postpartum anestrus Buffaloes are seasonally polyestrous animal with varying reproductive efficiency throughout the year. As reported from different researchers, buffalo cows exhibit a distinct seasonal change in displaying estrus, conception rate and calving rate. Seasonality does not appear to be depended on diet, food availability or metabolic status, while climate and particularly photoperiod play a pivotal role. The proportion of buffaloes exhibiting estrus during the period of short-day length is significantly greater than during the period of long day length, indicating that decreasing daylight is a stronger determinant of the resumption of ovarian activity. It is observed that acyclicity is associated with increased prolactin concentration in blood when ambient temperature and photoperiod are at maximum during summer. Such increase in prolactin concentration influences the ovarian activity leading to sub- fertility and repeat breeding by lowering progesterone secretion. In winters where buffalo are fed with a constant balanced diet and are not exposed to heat stress, a distinct seasonal reproductive pattern is also found. This has been attributed to changes in photoperiod, mediated by melatonin secretion. Moreover, buffaloes calving in winter show shorter postpartum anestrus than those calving in summer months. Providing suitable control over environmental stress such as provision of adequate shades and green fodder, water-mist systems, cooling fans, etc. may help in alleviating summer stress and help in induction of cyclicity in buffaloes. These management practices may be coupled with estrous synchronization programme under veterinary care to reduce inter- calving period. Provision of shade tree for buffaloes during summer Postpartum management Buffaloes should be maintained in maternal unit in order to provide a better postpartum care. Light palatable, mixed laxative ration Farmer friendly non-hormonal measures to tackle seasonality in buffaloes Table 1.