 Goat meat has higher thiamine (Vitamin B1) and riboflavin (Vitamin B2) as compared to meats from other food animals. Goat meat cuts have fat content 50-65% lower than similarly prepared beef, between 42-59% less fat than lamb (sheep meat) and about 25% fat lower than veal. The percentage of saturated fat in goat meat is 40% less than chicken (without skin) and is far below than beef, pork and lamb i.e. by 850, 1100, and 900%, respectively. The protein contents of mutton and beef are almost similar. Goat fat has ample amount of medium chain triglycerides 45 (MCT), which can be directly absorbed via intestine to serve as an energy source and do not require emulsification and digestion thus could be helpful in case of jaundice. Goat meat has healthful fatty acid profile; containing 60-80% desired fatty acids (DFA), which is ideal for health conscious consumers. 3.4. Capacity Building Programme ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) organises 6 national training programmes annually (once in a two months) for 8 days duration on commercial/scientific goat farming for goat farmers and other stakeholders to enables them to add their knowledge and skills. These programmes are designed with focus on goat breeding, feeding, health, housing, reproduction, value addition, economics and marketing as per the requiremnts of trainees. The tranings helped in improving the goat rearing skills of trainees and they were able to take initiatives to start goat farming at commercial level. Apart from national programmes, Institute also organizes 8-10 sponsored training programmes annualy. About 700 farmers are being trained on different aspects of scientific goat farming under both the training programmes. Some specialised training programmes on artificial insemination (AI) in goat, value addition of goat milk and meat products are also organised for entreprenures, government employees and other stakeholders. 4. Interventions for Sustainable Goat Production yy Promoting semi-intensive or strategic management system through field demonstrations: Mostly the goat keepers (>95%) rear their goat on zero input system and earn average profit of Rs. 12500/year from a unit of five adult females. Shifting to goat management to semi- intensive or intensive management may yield the double or more dividends compared to extensive system. Farmers may be charged the cost that is incurred on vaccination, deworming, feed-mineral mixture and service from high potential buck. Profit per goat under extensive management from one adult Barbari goat has been found to be Rs. 3280, whereas with strategic feeding support it could increase to Rs. 6493. The profit increased with strategic inputs support on account of increase in body weight (>40%), milk yield (80%), survivability (50%), multiple birth (50%) and increase in premium value/ breed purity (20%).