 145 automated weather stations CD - CIMIS helps farmers manage their water resources more efficiently and provides the data to determine when and how much to irrigate. Benefits of CIMIS [68]. Agricultural field CD - CIMIS demonstrates the high value of public information that enhances water conservation and increases water-use efficiency. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 11 of 40 ECOSTRESS and CIMIS [69]. Heterogeneous environments CD - ETo measured with ECOSTRESS and CIMIS showed good agreement, and methods have significant implications for regional water utilities. Implementing CIMIS [70]. Walnuts CD - Increased water use, production, and profits were experienced. IRRISAT [71]. Agricultural field CD RS It uses remote sensing data and provides site-specific crop management information at a relatively low cost across large scales. RS-SWB [72]. Maize and wheat CD RS The tool offers reproducible and reliable mapped estimations, and time series data allows irrigation land monitoring. IrriSatSMS [73]. Agricultural field CD SMS A total of 80% of irrigators found the system helpful and easy to use. The tool can be used as a very cheap bi-directional communication channel. IrriSatSMS [74]. Agricultural field CD SMS The tool helped farmers determine how much water plants needed and how long they needed to run the pump daily. Bluleaf [75]. Agricultural field CD - The tool can monitor, plan, and manage agricultural processes, particularly irrigation and fertigation. CoAgMET [76]. Weather stations CD - The data gathered from various stations helps to calculate ET values to model water use for different crops. IRMA_SYS [77]. Agricultural field CD - The tool utilizes weather stations and flowmeter data and calculates daily water requirements, considering parameters of soil, cultivation, and irrigation practices. Modelling with IRMA_SYS [78]. Agricultural field CD - IRMA_SYS is open, fully customizable, modular software that estimates field-specific crop WC and SIS at multiple scales, from farm to water basin level. Note: California irrigation management information system (CIMIS), climate data (CD), decision trees (DT), deep Q-learning (DQN), deep learning neural network (DLNN), deep reinforcement learning (DRL), reference evapotranspiration (ET), fuzzy logic (FL), Internet of Things (IoT), irrigation amount (IM), irrigation water saving (IWS), the Italian On-line Satellite Irrigation Advisory Service (IRRISAT), gravimetric control system (GCS), long short-term memory network (LSTM), Modbus-RTU communication protocols (MCP), remote sensing (RS), remote sensing-based soil water balance (RS-SWB), soil moisture (SM), smart irrigation scheduling (SIS), smart irrigation method (SIM), short messaging service (SMS), water consumption/usage (WC), wireless sensor and actuator network (WSAN), artificial intelligence (AI) and prediction models (PM). Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 12 of 40 3.2.