 Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 12 • Temporal analysis of all four indices showed that the annual varia- tions of the four indices are consistent with each other, while monthly SSMI and ESSMI indices (a measure of agricultural drought) lagged behind the SPI and SPEI (a measure of meteorological drought). This lag is due to the delayed SM response to precipitation, indicating the propagation from meteorological to agricultural drought, as observed in other studies (Zhang et al., 2019; Bharadwaj et al., 2020; Dai et al., 2022). • When looking at different classes of drought, the analysis indicates that most of the drought experienced by the SPH falls in the category of near normal and mild to moderate drought classes, as indicated by all four indices. • It has been further noted that the ESSMI is unable to detect extreme drought areas, while the SSMI using the same ESACCI SM detected the extreme drought classes. The difference can be attributed to the use of parametric distribution in developing SSMI, similar to SPI and SPEI, whereas ESSMI uses non-parametric distribution. The para- metric distributions are more sensitive to extreme dryness/wetness than non-parametric distributions (Sol´akov´a et al., 2014) as they make assumptions about the shape of the underlying distribution, enabling them to fit extreme values more accurately. • Regardless of the index used, croplands are the most affected land cover class in SPH, followed by rangelands, forests, built-up areas, and waterbodies. Similarly, regardless of the index used, near normal and mild droughts dominate all soil types in SPH, followed by moderate, severe, and extreme droughts. The socioeconomic impact of drought effects on land cover is profound. Agricultural drought, as identified by SSMI and ESSMI, directly affects crop production, which is a critical component of the regional economy. Croplands, identified as the most affected land cover, suggest that farmers and Fig. 14. Percentage of different drought classes in each soil type in terms of DAR as identified by SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI in SPH from 1991 to 2020. H. Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 13 communities reliant on agriculture are particularly vulnerable. This vulnerability can lead to decreased agricultural yields, higher food prices, and increased economic stress on farming communities. Moreover, understanding the progression and impact of drought on different land covers can aid in developing targeted mitigation strategies. For instance, enhancing irrigation infrastructure and adopting drought-resistant crops can mitigate some of the adverse effects on agriculture. Policymakers can use these insights to allocate resources more effectively, support affected populations, and implement adaptive measures to reduce socioeconomic vulnerability.