 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 12 Indigenous farming practices An inventory of documentation and analysis of indigenous farm practices on major crops reports that incorporation of kitchen ash into soil for increased soil fertility, use of silt from the dried reservior beds and broadcast in their fields during summer, mixture of lime and sugar for rodent control, providing irrigation whenever termite attack is observed, applying fresh mud to the graneries before each new crop is stored, tying of polythene sheets randomly in the paddy field on 3 to 4 feet tall sticks, uprooting gallmidge affected seedlings of paddy and burning in the nursery before transplantation, mixed cropping of mestha with seamum to compensate the yield loss, opening of 2 to 3 ft deep trenches and adding of 5 kg of common salt, 40 to 50 kg of organic matter and covering the soil before onset of monsoon to prevent flower and fruit shedding in mango, wrapping of sugarcane stem by twisting leaves around the stem to protect from wild animals are some of the traditional practices adopted by the farming community (Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka). Lakshmana (2000) 13 Kadera It is used for collecting pine needles (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 303 19 Geographical indicators and other attributes of plant meterials used in ITK Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 1 Abrus precatorius Indian liquorice H-Ghungehi B-Kunch M-Gunja G-Chanoti Tel-Guriginja T-Gundumani Kan-Guluganji Mal-Kunni The roots and leaves contain glycyrrhizin, the active principle of liquorices. The decoction of both is widely used for cough, cold and colic. The principle poisonous constituent is abrin. Abrin has been resolved into globulin and albuminose. An infurida of the bruished seeds when applied to conjuctiva may cause fatal poisoning due to absorption of abrin. It causes acute inflammation, which in some cases improve the condition. The bruished seeds have been used criminally for poisoning cattle, and for homicidal purpose. A poultice of seeds is said to have been used as a suppository to bring about abortion. A climbing shrub with paripinnate leaves, sensitive to light and challenges in weather. It is found throughout India even at an altitude up to 3,500 feet on the outer Himalayas. It is now naturalized in all tropical countries. 2 Abutilon indicum Country mallow H-Kanghi B-Potari Tel-Tutturabenda T-Paniyarattutti Kan-Tutti Mal-Velluram The leaves and seeds (called balbij) are rich in mucilage and are used as laxative and demulcent. In India an infusion of the roots is taken internally as a cooling medicine. A hairy under shrub with golden yellow-flowers, abundant throughout the hotter parts of India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 304 Sl. No.