 Therefore, oil palm plantation with long life cycle itself acts as a temporary forest and helps to improve the environment. The huge biomass generated in oil palm plantations adds to soil biological system and improves its condition. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, 2Principal Scientist, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oil Palm Research, Pedavegi, Andhra Pradesh, India Email: director.iiopr@icar.gov.in November–December 2023 97 Bamboo Based Natural Packaging: Indian Scenario Bamboo is a strategic resource growing across the world particularly in Northeast India, which can be processed in various ways to produce different products, to be used as substitutions for the existing plastic material as it is biodegradable. Before the existence of plastic, there were products made from bamboo and packaging was also made from bamboo. This begs the question, is this packaging sustainable and how it can substitute other material. Traditionally, in India bamboo basket weaving has rich cultural identity and used in all household applications mainly in packing which is now needed to bring into the modern packing for various products. The paper discuss the sustainable development and uses of bamboo packaging in Northeastern region. T HE Benefits of Bamboo for Packaging is Low Cost. Since bamboo grows around the world, it’s much easier to access. Bamboo is a great replacement for materials such as plastic, and it can meet the sustainability goals of many businesses. Bamboo from harvesting, value chain includes regeneration of quality bamboo stock, product, and distribution, which can create much needed employment opportunities in rural areas. India bamboo packing for various products and promoting their inclusion packaging industry in India can greatly contribute to improve local livelihoods and rural development as well as ensuring conservation and reduced Carbon Footprint. Bamboo packaging is not harmful like Plastics and is convenient disposal, versatility and sustainable. Bamboo has characteristics of high biomass productivity, self- regeneration and tolerance to poor soils which makes it most suitable energy crop for environmental sustainability. Bamboo has a lifespan of 40-60 years and if it is not utilized in the productive manner, then existing huge resource can get waste. Due to bamboo’s versatility, it is being used in an increasingly wide range of products and open ample of opportunity. As a local resource bamboo makes a lot of sense to use for packaging in India. Bamboo, a grass family is growing across the world particularly in Northeast India, which can be processed in various ways to produce different products. It is used as substitute for the existing plastic material as it is biodegradable. In the earlier days, there were products made from bamboo and packaging was made from bamboo.