 Organic farming practices preserve soil fertility, maintain or increase organic matter and enhance water-holding capacity of soil, which can reduce the negative effects of drought while increasing productivity in organic farming, helping farmers withstand drought. Practices such as crop residue retention, mulching and agro-forestry, conserve soil moisture and protect crops against microclimate extremes. Organic farming systems contribute to reduced consumption of fossil fuel energy, reduced carbon dioxide and nitrous dioxide emissions, reduced soil erosion and increased carbon stocks. Greenhouse warming potential in organic systems is 29 to 37% lower because of omission of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides. Carbon sequestration efficiency of organic systems is almost double as compared to conventional soils. Thus, organic farming can potentially contribute to mitigate threats from climate change on vegetable production. Vegetable productivity under organic farming It is noticed that during the conversion period, the crop yield is low compared to the conventional (using fertilizer and pesticides) and integrated crop management. However, the yields under organic farming system start rising from third year onwards and equals to that of the conventional system by the sixth year. Due to 10-50% more premium prices under organic farming, the net income increases progressively from fourth year onwards. Results obtained from 1050 organic field demonstration trials in different parts of the India showed an increase of 4% yield in plantation crops, 7% in fruit crops, 10% in millet and vegetable, 11% in fibre, condiments and spice crops, 14% in oilseeds and flowers and 15% in tobacco. After practicing 5-6 years of organic farming, the soil fertility sufficiently restored, the yield realized in organic farming of vegetable is either comparable or more than that realized in conventional farming. The studies at IIVR revealed that for tomato and cabbage grown during winter season and okra and cowpea grown during summer Indian Horticulture 72 season, the comparable yield under organic cultivation to conventional system were achieved during sixth year. However, in rainy season, for cowpea and pea, the comparable yield was recorded only in fourth year of consecutive organic farming. Scope of organic farming in India In India, National Programme for Organic Production (NPOP) was designed to establish national standards for organic products. The Agricultural Processed Food Products Export Development Authority (APEDA), Ministry of Commerce and Industries is implementing the NPOP Programmee. The NPOP has basic production standards applicable under Indian conditions and specified guidelines on cultivation of crops organically to be acceptable as organic, which could then be sold under the logo ‘India Organic’.