 Our study hypothesizes that accurate retrievals of remotely sensed ABA products can improve the quantification of emissions solely associated with CRB, which can be achieved by reducing the uncertainty in the quantification of DMB in association with crops, cultivation cycles and CRB trends. To overcome the limitations mentioned above, this study improves the use of existing global BA products and land cover maps to more accurately quantify the extent of CRB, which is then utilized to es­ timate actual DMB with improved accuracy. We use our method to quantify district-level agricultural burned area (ABA) and associated emissions over India from 2011 to 2020. In particular, we focus on interannual variability in CRB activities and associated emissions, as well as the factors influencing this variability over the decadal time period. To estimate ABA, we processed 500 m MODIS-based BA products at the dis­ trict level for all cropping seasons in India and used these to estimate GHG M.V. Deshpande et al. Science of the Total Environment 904 (2023) 166944 3 emissions at the district level. To better understand the factors driving burning and potential mitigation strategies, we also examined the in­ terrelationships between crops grown, crop growing cycles, and the adoption of technology at the district to national scales. 2. Study area and period India is the seventh largest country in the world by land area. The country is divided into 28 states and 8 union territories, further divided into 721 districts (Fig. 1). The country has been broadly divided into 15 agricultural regions based on agroclimatic features, particularly soil type, climate, and irrigation water availability. India is the world's second-largest agricultural producer, producing 292.0 Mt of food in a single year (2020) (Agricultural Statistics at a Glance, 2021). There are primarily two main cropping seasons in India, the Kharif (June–No­ vember) and the Rabi (November–May) seasons. However, farmers in some Indian states (e.g., Odisha, West Bengal, and Kerala) follow additional seasons for crop cultivation based on multiple factors such as weather, soil type, irrigation, and crop type. The net irrigated area in the country was 70.43 million hectares in 2019–2020, about 44.62 % of the country's total cropped area (Ministry of Jal Shakti, Government of India). Groundwater is the primary source of irrigation, accounting for about 62 % of the net irrigated area, followed by canals and other surface water sources (Agricultural Statistics at a Glance, 2021). The present study focuses on the entire country of India except for the Northeast states, as these regions use burning for a different purpose fundamentally different from CRB. Specifically, farmers in the Northeast states practice agricultural burning but use it to clear fields from non- agricultural plants (grass, fallow, bushes, forest) (e.g., for Jhum or shifting cultivation).