 Development of hand-held instrument for non-destructive quality evaluation of mango: An indigenous handheld fruit tester has been developed to acquire, process, view and create library of infra-red spectral data from different fruit samples to determine the quality of fruits like mango, apple and pears, rapidly and non- destructively for various parameters like total soluble solids, titratable acidity, and dry matter content affecting overall maturity of the fruits during harvesting and storage periods. The conceptual design of the instrument was based on NIR models/patent (Patent No. 309407) developed at ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana. The handheld instrument with 3-D printed plastic body included a tungsten halogen lamp as the light source, NIR sensor, single porter computer, and batteries. The device was used to acquire the spectral data of different mango varieties (Lagra, Dassehri, Bangan Palli, Neelam, Chausa) collected from ICAR-IARI farm. The analysis with the device was also performed on mango varieties from Punjab, Meerut, Bangalore, Maharashtra and Andhra Pradesh. The developed device has successful applications in determining the quality attributes of several other commodities in food and agriculture sector. 69 3.1 Technology Developed and Demonstrated The lead and cooperating centers have availed the handholding and facilitation support from the Project Implementation Unit of NASF. They were also motivated to transfer their lab- scale research findings into validated and/or well demonstrated commercial products. Some of the potential technologies developed or under development are highlighted below: y ‘Mahima’, a female calf born on to ‘Garima-II’ a cloned buffalo, produced by hand-guided cloning using ESCs as donor cells. y Transgene free genome edited mega rice cultivar MUT1010 with enhanced yield and stress tolerance was developed. y Highly efficient herbicide-resistant maize line using CRISPR/Cas9-mediated homology donor repair base editing system was developed. y Production of multiple copies of elite buffalo bulls using animal cloning technology. y Developed diagnostic kits for detection of Covid-19 infection in animals- SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit, SARS-CoV-2 Antibody detection ELISA Kit, Covid-19 Blocking ELISA kit. (commercialized) y Fine mapping and marker-assisted breeding for alternative dwarfing genes Rht14 and Rht18 to develop semi dwarf wheat genotype suitable for conservation agriculture. y Developed bivalent marker vaccine against bovine herpesvirus-1 and brucella. (commercialized) y Luteinizing hormone-based sensor developed for estrus detection in buffaloes. y Phyto-acaricides for controlling resistant cattle ticks developed. (commercialised) y Developed a metabolite-based non-invasive sensor for early scab-disease diagnosis in apple. y Developed an Automated Soil Nutrient Sensing System. y Developed an electronic nose for the optimum harvesting time and fruit quality in Apple and Papaya.