 The projection of Gandhiji as a saint or politician, in a wider world- view was only to mask his image as a scientist, which he was actually. Gandhiji had been an arduous student of the art of experimentation which is evident from the title he had chosen for his autobiography: ‘The Story of My Experiments with Truth’. He was an ardent inventor and an assiduous innovator. He was fabricating, and refining snake- catching tools, made footwear from used tyres, and innovated more efficient methods for rural sanitation. His trademark is the small cotton-spinning wheels used by him. All through his life he was engaged with experiments in different spheres of life. He did extensive research on diet and its impact on body and mind. His experiments in health were recorded in his book ‘Key to health”. He did lengthy experiments in the processing and production of clothing. He inspired the world-renowned architect Laurie Baker to undertake the construction of low-cost houses for the poor with the locally available materials. The Gandhian scheme for science intends to find alternative for much criticized ‘western’ or ‘modern’ science by redefining the objectives and the premises (Ninan 2009). The non-western, traditional systems of knowledge (e.g. Ayurveda and Unani systems of medicine) and specific skills such as village crafts and handloom spinning were integrated into the realm of science and the practitioners of the above were to be recognized as ‘scientists’. For Gandhiji, the purpose of science must be welfare of the humanity. He considered “science without humanity” as one of the seven great sins. 2.2. Gandhiji on Scientists Gandhiji saw himself as a scientist experimenting all through his life, focusing more on the practical science. According to him, the scientist has to be conscious and self-reflecting. The scientist should not be working for exploiting market nor with the stifling state, but work for the people. He called upon the scientists to introspect and relate how their efforts would benefit the poorest and weakest man ever encountered by them (Gandhi 1945). He believed that scientists are not only those working in laboratories, but also the community workers who do research in their own pursuit. He desired that the community workers should not only learn necessary skills, but also conduct experiments and make discoveries for development in a rural background. Gandhiji proclaimed that scientific pursuit required an attitude for research, beyond academic qualifications. He laid more emphasis on the scientists’ sacrifice and dedication first. He advised the new generation scientists to pursue original researches avoiding duplication. Gandhiji believed that there should be large number of scientists and engineers in the villages.