 The iron content is also high compared to ruling varieties of pomegranate. Though considered as poor man’s crop earlier, sweet potato has gain popularity because of its nutritive value. A new variety, Bhu Sona that is rich in carotene besides tolerance to salinity, suitable for cultivation in eastern states, has been identified by CTCRI. Another variety, Bhu Krishna that is rich in anthocyanin, has been identified. IIHR has developed Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 20 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR several nutritionally superior varieties of fruits and vegetables. Lycopene rich guava and tomato; carotenoid rich mango, pumpkin; vit C rich guava, chilli and antioxidant rich leafy vegetables are few popular ones. Recently, a new drumstick line IIHR-D-16 has been identified that recorded 135 fruits per plant compared to PKM-1 (105 fruits/ plant) with good nutritional profile. Among the leafy vegetables Enhydra fluctuans (locally called HilMilchi) contained higher phenolics and antioxidant potential. They can supplement the nutritional requirement in the rural areas. Minor fruits viz., Careya arborea, salacia chinensis, Peanut butter fruit, Canito, Surinam cherry, Citrus hindsi, Ugrassa, Chalmogra, Garcinia mundro, Crateagus sp. Azimatetra cantha were characterized and mineral nutritional analysis of these fruits have been carried out. They can help in achieving nutritional requirements of rural and tribal population. 3.7. Improved livelihood with introduction of tuber crops in Tuhet Garden System in Andaman and Nicobar Islands Gandhiji’s concern for the tribal and socially under-privileged people is well known from his days spent in South Africa. The main source of livelihood of tribal population Nicobarese, a dominant tribe in Andaman and Nicobar Island is based on plantation crops especially coconut and fishing. ICAR-CIARI in collaboration with ICAR-CTCRI has made interventions without affecting their ecosystem by introducing tuber crops in their Tuhet Garden System (a joint family farming system). Farmers were trained in growing improved varieties of elephant foot yam and Colocasia. The employment generation in the tuber crops-based farming system was estimated at 510-man days ha-1 as compared to 295-man days ha-1 in their traditional system showing marked increase in the employment generation. After this success story, younger generation has taken up cultivation of tuber crops in their farms that has ensured livelihood for them. 3.8. Nutritional security through kitchen gardens in rural areas Growing nutritious vegetables in kitchen garden ensures nutritional security in rural areas. In Rayagada and Gajapati districts of Orissa, 400 adopted households in 25 villages were provided with Arka vegetable seed kits for kitchen garden. Training programmes were also given on various horticultural operations for these tribal beneficiaries.