 Defence related genes (defensin, cysteine protease inhibitor and NRHSPRO protein) were found up-regulated in the mild resistant cultivar (ICC-506EB). Major genes (FHG and MADS box Transmission factor) were highly expressed in the flower and pod wall. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 92 balm with squalene as an active component with pain relieving potential were developed. • The vaccine potential of ribosomal P0 protein of A. siamensis was tested in rohu. A reduced and delayed mortality of 59% (15 days post- infection) in immunized group was noticed as compared to 75% mortality in control. • Sodium-bentonite nanoclay was successfully synthesized and was applied in bioremediation of aquatic environment for reducing heavy metals, pesticides, nitrites and ammonia contamination. • Employing the nucleic acid-based assay, novel enteric viruses (rotavirus C, picobirna virus, astro virus and Kobuvirus) from different animal species were identified and characterized. Rotavirus C strains from sloth bears and highly divergent picobirnaviruses in camels were also identified. • Expression profiling of bone morphogenetic protein 3 (BMP3), bone morphogenetic protein 4 (BMP4), fatty acid synthase (FASN) and acetyl- CoA carboxylase alpha (ACACA) genes during embryonic and post-hatch period up to 6 weeks of age were established in layer and broiler chicken. • The ATPase Na+/K+ transporting subunit alpha 1 (ATP1A1), an important candidate gene for heat tolerance traits was characterized in different breeds of Indian riverine buffaloes and native cattle. The analysis helped to identify several variations/SNPs that can be used as resource for genomic studies targeting thermo-tolerance trait in Indian dairy species. • Four types of biscuits and three types of breads rich in nutrients known for bone strengthening were developed for children. The protein and calcium content of the biscuits was significantly higher than the control biscuits. The nutritional content of the salty biscuits was higher in comparison to sweet biscuits for all parameters. Process parameters for bread development were optimized for naturally fortified calcium enriched breads with combination ingredients like sesame, cumin and moringa; ragi and sesame; and milk and sesame. • 137Cs inventory for depth increment profile revealed that soil erosion of around 5.8 tonnes ha-1 yr-1 is occurring at slight eroded phase in North-west Himalayan region. A close relationship between 137Cs and SOC content of the soil was found. Erosion induced C-loss ranged between 94 to 120.7 kg ha-1 yr-1 leading to 20-25 kg ha-1 yr-1 C as net C-source to atmosphere.