 Risk and responses to Urban futures: Understanding peri-urban dynamics for enhanced ecosystem services. The study from Delhi, Hyderabad, Bangalore, Varanasi, Dhaka and Nepal show that in a 50 Km radius from cities agriculture ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 94 land is lost at a rapid rate. The area under agriculture was diminishing but production hotspots contributed to increased production. Migration to peri-urban areas were high and these were not accounted in census data. Indicators for multiple dimensions of poverty were higher in high production mandals e.g. Hyderabad. Promoting the wise-use of wetlands in urban and peri- urban areas: The study was carried out in Maharashtra and west Bengal. The spatio-temporal studies identified over 3300 wet lands in 30 km radius with class size 0.38 ha and above. Between 2000 and 2013, 50% of these wet lands were lost. Hence, framework for wise use of wetlands was discussed at high level meeting in Kolkata with stakeholders including ICAR institutions. The workshop recommended developing a large proposal to capture the ecosystem services in wetlands in a catchment. Also proposed to develop new smaller wetlands to develop ideas and use the funds from PMSKY, RKVY, AMRUTH, etc. Collective models for farm system intensification: Collective models have achieved unprecedented success. Labour management, ability to operate a contiguous plot and making irrigation more feasible has increased the cropping intensity to 300% in Bihar site. Solar pumps were installed for monitoring the institutional and technical performance. Solar power as remunerative crop (SPaRC): IWMI is piloting solar power as the source of energy for pumping groundwater and selling the surplus power to the grid. The model is helping the farmers to incentivize and become water and energy efficient. The SPaRC is offering farmers a stable and climate proof income. The model will help in improving the financial viability of the DISCOMS. This also reduces the greenhouse gas emissions. The government of Gujarat has come forward and adopted the approach in their solar policy. Solar pump irrigators cooperative enterprise (SPICE) was also formed. Access to irrigation during dry season for small holder using solar pump Solar irrigation in Dhundi village, Kheda district, Gujarat ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 95 Fecal sludge management: IWMI is designing the technical, institutional and financial model for implementation of FSM as demonstration site for Delhi. Improvement in sanitation facilities is estimated resulting in improved quality of life and hygiene. Generation of employment opportunities is also expected at the location, establishing a sustainable model. 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES In 2017, IWMI-India proposes to work with the ongoing and new proposals in collaboration with NARES, non-NARES and NGO partners.