 Their ability to provide consistent and continuous data across wide spatial extents, along with the high correlations between surface and root-zone SM, allows satellite- based measurements to serve as proxies for deeper SM, enhancing their utility in agricultural drought monitoring. The European Space Agency (ESA) under the Climate Change Initiative (CCI) program (mentioned as ESACCI henceforth) created a daily global surface SM dataset spanning from 1978 to 2023 by combining multiple active and passive MV sensors. This multi-satellite ESACCI SM dataset has been used in several research studies related to drought monitoring and to evaluate the performance of other SM- based indices. For example, Zhang et al., (2021) computed a para- metric distribution-based drought index SSMI using ESACCI SM for drought analysis in China. When compared with SSMI derived from the Global Land Data Assimilation System (GLDAS)-Noah SM, they have found a significant correlation in SSMI values over 70 % of the country with discrepancies in arid and cold regions. Rahmani et al., (2016) also used SSMI which highlighted severe prolonged drought events in the Centre and Southeast regions of Iran over the last decade of 2000 to 2010. Martinez-Fernandez et al. (2017) derived the SWDI using the ESACCI SM and verified it with the CMI and Atmospheric Water Deficit index (AWD) in the Zamora province of Spain. They have recommended the ESACCI SM as a valuable input for agricultural drought studies. Enenkel et al., (2016) combined ESACCI SM and satellite-derived pre- cipitation, NDVI and land surface temperature and successfully detected the drought events in large-scale in Ethiopia during 1992–2014. Yuan et al., (2015) used ESACCI SM to capture short term SM droughts across China. McNally et al. (2016) used ESACCI SM for monitoring food se- curity and agricultural drought in East Africa and found strong corre- lations of R > 0.5 when comparing ESACCI SM with vegetation based- NDVI. Furthermore, using ESACCI SM alone Carr˜ao et al. 2016 devel- oped a non-parametric distribution based ESSMI. The ESSMI strongly correlated (r > 0.82) with crop yields of soybean, wheat and maize during critical growing months in South–Central America region. Despite its efficient performances in drought characterization in many parts of the globe, the ESACCI SM has particularly limited use in Indian drought monitoring scenarios. Hence, the current study evaluates the potential of ESACCI SM for agricultural drought characterization in the Indian subcontinent. The study has selected a drought-prone Agro-Cli- matic Zones (ACZs) namely Southern Plateau and Hills (SPH) as the study area and uses a parametric- and a non-parametric distribution i.e. SSMI and ESSMI respectively, to characterize the agricultural drought over the same.