 These strategies and restructuring initiatives are aimed at identifying priorities for focused research to achieve the set targets and ensure accountability in converting outlays into outputs & outcomes, better returns on investments, optimum utilization of resources to achieve the vision “Fish for All”. Objective 3. Improving natural resource management and input use efficiency With respect to improving soil health and water productivity, integrated nutrient and water management are essential. The action points/ success indicators cover developing GIS based soil fertility maps, integrated nutrient management packages, enhancing water storage and ground water recharge and multiple uses of water. Emphasis will specifically be on climate resilient agriculture through training/demonstration of technologies and capacity building. Objective 4. Development of vaccines and disease diagnostics The production of diagnostic kits and vaccines would involve delineation of process (processes). The number of prophylactics developed, their field validation and control of economically important livestock and fish diseases would be the indicators. Objective 5. Post harvest management / farm mechanization and value addition Post harvest management and value addition to reduce post harvest losses and develop prototypes for various agricultural operations to enhance ease in farm operation and improve productivity are success indicators. Objective 6. IP management and commercialization of technologies page : 13 of 16 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology (2011-2012) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education With respect to commercialization of technologies and promoting public-private partnership, it is envisaged to bring commercial ethos in agricultural research. Indicators for commercialization of technologies, promoting public-private partnership, and protection of intellectual property rights will be determined by the commercialization through partnership development, including licensing of ICAR technologies. The increasing numbers over the years may indicate a higher emphasis on technology transfer through enterprises; thereby contributing to larger adoption and improved socio- economic impact of ICAR technologies. Objective 7. Strengthening of higher agricultural education With respect to “Strengthening of higher agricultural education”, the success will be measured from the indicator the number of universities having developed appropriate e-learning tools and resources. Similarly, Accreditation/ Extension of Accreditation of agricultural universities will require number of universities granted accreditation/ extension of accreditation; Grant of ICAR International fellowships to Indian and foreign students, and JRF and SRF, as applicable, will cover number of such fellowships awarded.