 In 2015-16, 140 trials and nurseries from CIMMYT were sown by collaborators throughout wheat growing areas of India. More than 2000 germplasm lines were shared which carry resistance to major diseases, abiotic stress tolerance and high grain & quality. Screening of Indian wheat lines for wheat blast resistance was initiated at Bolivia. The International Maize Improvement Consortium for Asia (IMIC-Asia) entered its second phase. With support from ICAR, breeding for Quality Protein Maize (QPM) germplasm was strengthened and at least 100 QPM lines were shared with AICRP partners. Breeding for ‘Heat Tolerant Maize’ got momentum and 1st generation heat tolerant hybrids were formally licenced to partners for deployment and scale-out in their targeted geographies. Lines derived from CIMMYT germplasm with resistance to various diseases were shared with six AICMIP centers. The 2nd batch of 13 heat tolerant hybrids were licensed in 2016 to Indian maize program partners, including public and private sector, for release or registration. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 63 The sustainable intensification program (SIP) continued to work with public and private sector to implement the SI activities under CRPs on WHEAT, MAIZE and CCAFS as well as bilateral projects. Significant outputs and outcomes were: Large scale impact of laser land leveling; accelerated uptake of CA based management (zero tillage, direct seeded rice); conceptualizing and implementing precision water and nutrient management; new tools for example “Nutrient Expert (NE) Decision Support Tool” for maize and wheat and Android phone based app for hand held GreenSeeker sensor for scaling precision nutrient management in smallholder wheat and maize systems; newly developed machines such as high clearance planter for cotton-wheat system and Turbo Happy seeder for eliminating rice residue burning. CCAFS, a CRP of all CGIAR centers demonstrated climate smart agriculture in more than 1000 villages in India through scale-out adaptation (practices, technologies, institutions and policies), improved agriculture insurance, ICT services and crop growth monitoring and forecasting. In addition, several new insurance products were developed that have been used by the Agricultural Insurance Company of India and the Maharashtra Government. BISA farms demonstrated the use of genomic selection in wheat breeding, prospects for hybrid wheat, practicality of implementation of conservation agriculture practices without any burning of rice straw and tools that save water and nutrients. 2.iii. Socio-economic impact/outcome i. The impact of CIMMYT’s wheat germplasm has been observed in sustained wheat production in last five years in the face of climate change. Despite warmer temperatures in last few years, the production continues to increase. ii. QPM maize varieties released using CIMMYT germplasm is contributing significantly to address human malnutrition issues. iii.