 Studies on fruits have progressed from the discovery of essential nutrients and prevention of dietary deficiency, to the promotion of a state of well-being and health with reduction of the disease risk. Among them, banana is a globally popular fruit, which is a package of nutrients and bio-active compounds. Banana being rich in many essential nutrients and dietary fibre has the capability to cure many diseases. Some of the specific diseases known to be cured by banana are: anaemia, blood pressure, constipation, depression, hangovers, heart burns, morning sickness, PMS, Seasonal affective disorder (SAD), ulcer, stroke, stress and age related disorders. It is good to enhance brain power, and provide instant energy. Prospects I NDIA is the largest producer of banana with the production of 30.6 million tonnes from an area of 8.02 lakh ha, contributing 17% of world production. About 90% of banana produced is consumed domestically as fresh fruit. Merely 5% is consumed in processed form providing a good potential for future processing. About 2.5% is only processed purely as banana products and the rest as an ingredient in other foods. The primary product of banana in market is ‘fried chips and candy’ which constitute around 31% with production capacity of 2.0 lakh tonnes valued at ` 500 crores per annum, rest as banana puree 9%, banana pulp 3%, banana beer 3%, banana wafers 3%, banana powder 6% and others. Banana contains considerable amount of resistant starch (non-digestible starch) and non-starch polysaccharides, which have low glycemic index. This property makes it an appropriate ingredient for different functional and convenience foods like cookies, bread, cake, extruded foods and chips, etc.Conventional products like chips, jam, jelly, banana fig, ready to drink juice are very familiar products from banana and loads of blogs are available online that detail the protocol for its utilization. Recently, at ICAR–National Research Centre for Banana, Tiruchirappalli has developed handful of technologies which are not only innovative and low cost but also provide better entrepreneurial opportunities under PMFME and other government schemes which orient towards Atmanirbhar initiatives. Product like banana syrup and glucose are unusual but remarkable products. Similarly, unripe banana powder is a customary product, but ripe banana powder is an exceptional item. The future innovation can also include prebiotic and probiotic foods, function specific targeted micro-encapsulated healthy foods from banana. Low glycemic resistant starch rich green banana flour based nutri-products Banana flour prepared from mature unripe banana with high starch content (available and resistant) can be blended with other cereal flours and can be used as a potential ingredient for bakery products. Consumption of unripe banana flour incorporated products can confer beneficial effects for human health, a fact often associated with its high resistant starch content.