 Fenugreek leaf blight caused by Alternaria alternata can be effectively managed by three foliar application of propiconazole (0.05%) or difenoconazole (0.05%) at 15 days interval. Foliar application of copper oxychloride (0.2%) and hexaconazole (0.1%) was most effective against downy mildew and powdery mildew diseases of fenugreek, respectively. ❑ Weather based forecast model for thrips Weather based forecast models were developed for each date of planting (01-Nov, 15-Nov, 01-Dec, 15- Dec, 01- Jan and 15- Jan) for rabi onion using weather indices and crop growth and thrips infestation attributes for reliable forewarning of thrips. CIARI Bio-Consortia The talc based bio-formulation with consortia of antagonistic bacteria was developed and tested in different field conditions for management of bacterial wilt in brinjal. Soil application of bio-enriched FYM with CIARI-Bioconsortia at 15 days regular intervals could successfully control the bacterial wilt disease and increase the yield of brinjal. Soil application of bio-enriched FYM was also considerably good in protected cultivation. 8. Livestock Management LIVESTOCK Nutrition Biogeography of gut microbes in animals: Efforts were made to explore the composition of rumen microbiome in large and small ruminants. The number of species detected in the rumen metagenomes ranged from 897-1468, which was highest in goat and lowest in buffalo. The phyla Fermicutes and Bacteroides dominated the cattle, buffalo and sheep rumen microbiome, but in goat the abundance of Fermicutes, Bacteroides and Proteobacteria was found in equal proportions. The population of archaeal was highest in buffalo as compared to the other three species. Cattle Dried rice distillers grain with solubles (RDGS): Distillers grains (DG) are considered good sources of protein for dairy cattle. Fibre, protein and fat are concentrated approximately 3-fold in DG when starch is fermented to produce ethanol; hence, DG can replace the protein source in diets of cattle. In a study, soybean meal (SBM) was totally replaced by RDGS in concentrate mixture. There was no significant difference in total DM and CP intake. The average milk yield though higher in the treatment, was not statistically significant. The average percentage of milk fat, milk protein, SNF, total solid and ash showed no significant difference due to treatment. There was no adverse effect of replacing SBM by RDGS on intake, milk yield or composition and thus cost of ration can be economized in view the much lower cost of RDGS in comparison to SBM. Feed and fodder technology • The supplementation of molasses based multi- nutrient supplement (MMS) (250 g/buffalo/day) improved milk yield by 16-18 %. MMS can replace 7.5 % of the concentrate mixture without having any adverse effect on the performance of lactating Murrah buffaloes.