25: Trials on Transgenic Crops UAS, Bangalore mentioned that there is need to have open debate and consensus whether the universities should take up trials on GMZ\ transgenic crops. The ICAR to come out with common guidelines and regulations for conduct of field trials, experiments on transgenic crops by SAUs and ICAR institutions. The issue was discussed and it was decided to set the guidelines for the purpose. [Action: DDG (CS)] Agenda 24.26: Revival of All India Network Project on Pesticide Residues Scheme TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda. It was decided to take steps after the review of AICRPs. Agenda 24.27: Support for Enhancement of productivity in different agricultural and veterinary sectors SKUAST, Jammu mentioned that to boost the productivity as well as production in agriculture and animal sectors collaborative research is required for vegetables, forages, agroforestry, pulses, intensification of fish culture, poultry health and production, livestock diseases surveillance and monitoring, and sheep/goat improvement. For all this, SKUAST-Jammu needs support from ICAR in the form of All India Coordinated Projects during XIIth plan. It was discussed in agenda 1. Agenda 24.28: Establishment of National Centre of Excellence in OUAT, Bhubaneswar OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda emphasizing on centre of excellence on Agronomy, Food Processing and Post Harvest Technology, Veterinary Medicine and Veterinary Anatomy. The point was noted. Agenda 24.29: Approval of a centre of the ICAR network project on climate change SKRAU, Bikaner proposed that the ICAR may consider sanctioning a centre of the Network Project at SKRAU, Bikaner. [Action: DDG (NRM)] 35 Agenda 24.30: Proposal for new centres of NNWP on Arid Legume CAZRI Jodhpur presented the agenda. The new centres of the NNWP on ARID Legume is required during the 12th Plan period at the following locations for successfully introducing the Arid Legumes Crops/Proposal. 1. New Centre on guar at SVVU, Tirupati 2. New centre for moth bean/cow pea at Rahuri The proposal was noted. Agenda 24.31: Functioning of the AICRP on Medicinal & Aromatic Plants and Betelvine DMAPR, Anand presented the agenda and was noted. Agenda 25: Audit utilization certificate, AICRP on Water Management & AICRP on Groundwater Utilization DWM, Bhubaneswar mentioned that AICRP Centres operational at State Agricultural Universities should submit Audit Utilization Certificates (AUCs) by 30th June positively as AUC is an important document requirement for releasing the funds to respective AICRP centres. All centers of the scheme “Scaling up of Water Productivity in Agriculture for livelihoods through Teaching cum Demonstration, Training of Trainers and Farmers” were requested to provide information on achievement of targets to the DWM, Bhubaneswar.