 It was recorded that insects preferred to feed on 11 mm size seeds, followed by 9 mm and 7 mm, respectively. Both grub and adult stages were able to cause substantial damage. The adult laid the eggs on the seeds by entering inside the kernels through the apical natural opening. The average temperature and relative humidity for R. dominica development was maintained as 32.5 ± 1°C and 70 ± 5°C, respectively. It took 35–50 days for completing its life cycle, which included four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Females laid about 200–500 eggs in their lifetime, singly. Incubation period lasted for 5±0.3–9±0.4 days, while larval and pupal period took 30±5 and 8±2 days, respectively. Mean longevity of adult male and female was 26 and 17 weeks, respectively. The damage potential was assessed using the artificial infestation (purposive samples) with different numbers of tested insect. The study indicated that significant loss of roasted makhana seeds during 15 days of storage with 40±1.24% losses, caused by 10 adults per 100g seeds. The total quantitative losses observed for 6 months storage period was 64±1.16% in the samples with 10 adults per 100g of roasted makhana seeds. The initial losses were very high and became slow after 20 days. Presently available method of fumigation by aluminium phosphide was practised and found feasible for the insect control. Internal makhana feeding Lesser grain borer (adult and grub) Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 62 ICT-enabled technology delivery for sustainable horticulture Digital technology is revolutionizing the dissemination of information for promoting sustainable horticulture, providing farmers with timely, region-specific, and actionable insights to improve crop management and resilience. Digital tools such as mobile applications, artificial intelligence (AI), drones, and community radio channels enable farmers to make data-driven decisions that optimize resources and enhance productivity. Mobile advisory platforms, like Pusa mKRISHI, deliver personalized, real-time support to farmers, guiding them in weather- based crop care, pest management, and soil health practices, which collectively improve yield quality and reduce waste. This article presents several success stories illustrating the transformative impact of digital solutions on horticulture. For instance, KVK Gurugram’s drone-based spraying demonstrations covered 19 hectares and showcased 80-84% pest reduction in a range of horticultural crops, outperforming traditional methods. Similarly, Digital Green’s participatory video learning in Madhya Pradesh improved knowledge dissemination, leading to better adoption of agricultural practices. Community radio has emerged as a vital platform for delivering localized agro-advisories, with data showing higher knowledge retention among listeners compared to non-listeners.