 Current approaches in enriching tropical feed resources - concept of total mixed ration and advances in complete diet formulation. Unit 8: Anti-metabolites and Toxic Principles Naturally occurring anti-nutritional factors and common toxins in feeds and forages. Methods of detoxification. Health hazards due to residual pesticides in feeds and forages - Environmental pollutants. 50 Unit 9: Elements of Research Methodology Principles of animal experimentation - Experimental designs in nutritional research. Modern methods of feed evaluation – In vitro, gas production and nylon bag techniques, Rumen simulation techniques - Rusitec Tracer techniques in nutrition research - Role of NIR Spectroscopy - Feed microscopy in quality evaluation of feedstuffs. Unit 10: Clinical Nutrition Role of nutrition to control digestive and metabolic disorders (milk fever, ketosis, ruminal acidosis- laminitis, bloat), metabolic profile tests. Role of nutrition in immunity, nutrition and reproduction, nutrients as antioxidants. Role of nutrition in management of GI parasites 5.3 LIVESTOCK PRODUCTION MANAGEMENT Unit 1: General Present status and future prospects of livestock and poultry development in India. Animal production systems in different agro-climatic zones of the country. Sustainability issue in relation to environment. Livestock farming systems. Effect of mechanization of agriculture on livestock sector. Breeds of cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, pigs, equine, camels, rabbits and poultry. Various livestock and poultry development programmes & their impact on productivity & health. Livestock behaviour vis- à-vis adaptation and production. Behaviour & welfare. Systems of behaviour. Sexual behaviour in various species of livestock and poultry. Social order in farm animals. Behavioural aberrations – causes and control. Adaptation of livestock and poultry in tropics, deserts cold and high altitudes. Biosecurity and environmental considerations. Emerging challenges for livestock production in relation to the climate change scenario. Biotechnology in animal improvement. Unit 2: Breeding Management Basic principles of inheritance. Concept of heritability, repeatability and selection. Important methods of selection and systems of breeding in farm animals and birds. Importance of maintaining breeding records and their scientific interpretation. Unit 3: Feeding Management Nutrients and their functions. Nutritional requirements and feeding managements of different categories of livestock and poultry. Feed additives including antibiotic and probiotic feeding in farm animals and birds. Formulation and compounding of rations for various categories of livestock and poultry. Least cost ration formulation. Systems of feeding livestock and birds. Feeding standards for livestock and poultry. Feed conversion efficiency of various categories of livestock and poultry. Processing and storage of conventional and non-conventional feed ingredients.