 hills enjoy only 12% of the total net irrigated area in the state), modest soil fertility; age-old farming practices; low input use (the fertilizer consumption in hill districts ranges from 65 to 666 thousand tonnes against 31,851 and 73,768 thousand tonnes in Haridwar and Udham Singh Nagar, respectively, which are plain districts); negligible farm mechanization; relatively low awareness about improved technologies; High Yield Gap II; insufficient marketing base; etc. Livestock are one of the main components of hill farming, but there is a great paucity of green and dry fodder; poor transport facilities and processing units, etc. The climate change has put forth an entirely different scenario of biotic and abiotic stresses, e.g. (i) heavy incidence of brown plant hopper (Nilaparvata lugens) was noticed for the first time in some rice-growing areas of Uttarakhand during 2010 (ii) high severity of yellow rust was observed during late-February to mid-March in wheat in 2011, (iii) a very low winter rainfall had resulted in a dismal wheat crop in many rainfed areas during past five years, (iv) adverse effect of increasing maximum temperature and sunshine hours of February months on wheat yield, and (vi) the damage caused by wild animals, like monkeys and boars, has assumed menacing proportions during recent years. Yield Gap I & II in various crops are presented in Table 1. Among the field crops, Yield Gap I is highest in maize followed by rice. Yield Gap I is very high in vegetable crops, especially in capsicum and onion. Yield Gap II is more than 20% in all crops. Among the field crops, it is highest in maize (63.66%) followed by Finger millet (56.2%). It is lowest in Black soybean (23.01%) followed by rice (29.20%). However, it is worthwhile to mention here that Yield Gap II in upland rice is more than 50%. Among the vegetable crops, Yield Gap II is highest in garlic (933.33%) followed by onion (65.67%) and capsicum (63.33%). It is lowest in case of French bean (27.3%). Uttarakhand, in spite of being a small state, has certain key features that make it distinct from other states of the country and highlight its potential for development. However, development has predominantly been in the plains, and the hill districts have been left behind. All the 578 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 hill districts have subsistence farming as their main economic activity. Due to subsistence livelihood, migration and a remittance economy operate in the hill districts. They are land- locked with huge distances between markets and resources. Because of these constraints, traditional agriculture cannot be the lead sector for development. Thus, the state faces the challenge of promoting livelihoods to minimize migration through local employment and income generation, and to enhance the quality of life of people living in villages.