 Dairy Science, Dairy Technology & Food Technology, Veterinary and Animal Sciences-I, II and III Dr. A. K. Srivastava, Director, NDRI, Karnal/His representative (Dr. S. K. Kanawjia, Academic Co-ordinator) 5. Home Sciences Dr. N. Grewal, Director, DRWA, Bhubaneswar 6. Fishery Sciences Dr. W. S. Lakra, Director, CIFE, Mumbai/His Representative (Dr. G. Venkateshwarlu, Dean-Academics) 2.1 Syllabus of Veterinary Anatomy, the sub-subject of Veterinary and Animal Sciences- III Major Subject group, introduced as a separate sub-subject, was suggested to be prepared in due consultation with the experts at College of Vety. Science, GBPUA&T, Pantnagar. The same has been done and incorporated in the recommendations. 2.2 The committee further deliberated on issues concerning format of the question paper to be adopted for SRF(PGS) examination, practice of awarding weightage of past academic performance (UG and PG) to the candidates, regrouping of the sub- subjects under Major Subject Groups considering the recommendations of Dr. R. S. Paroda Committee Report (on ‘Review of disciplines and eligibility qualifications for recruitment of ARS Scientists at the entry level’), bring uniformity in eligibility criteria for seeking admission in Universities under ICAR-AU system across the board, etc. 2.3 The consequential recommendations along with revised draft syllabus were circulated to all the Vice-chancellors of universities under ICAR-AU system, through e-mail, for seeking their feedback/suggestions/inputs. The inputs/suggestions received from SKRAU, Bikaner; BHU, Varanasi and TNFU, Nagapattinam were duly considered. 3.0 Recommendations Taking into account the functional needs of the Education Division and suggestions given by members of the Committee/Vice-Chancellors of ICAR-AU system, the Committee recommends the following: 7 3.1 Parity in admission for SRF(PGS) qualified candidates, across the board, in all the Universities under ICAR-AU system There should be parity in admissions across the board in all agricultural universities with respect to admission of candidates in Ph.D. who qualify All India Competitive ICAR SRF (PGS) Examination with or without fellowship. Since this examination, de facto, is an entrance test for Ph.D., the candidates while seeking admission to Ph.D. programmes in different universities after qualifying this examination should not be compelled to sit for another university level examination. It will be in line with the decision taken in Annual Conference of Vice-chancellors of Indian Agricultural and Central Universities on 20.02.2013 that all the candidates who qualify SRF (PGS) may be given admission in Ph.D. against available seats, under 25% quota of ICAR, in order of merit without any further examination at the university level. This may be uniformly adopted and implemented by all the universities under ICAR-AU system. 3.