 (xii) That the pay scale of the KVK staff should be at the pattern approved by the FIRST PARTY for the project and any increase either regular or adhoc in pay or allowance over and above the one approved by the FIRST PARTY shall be borne by the SECOND PARTY from their own resources (xiii) That all staff of KVK shall be borne on the establishment of the SECOND PARTY only. The administrative control over the staff employed under the project, therefore, shall vest in the SECOND PARTY. (xiv) That the placement of staff working in the project after the termination of the project shall be the sole responsibility of the SECOND PARTY without having any liability on the FIRST PARTY. (xv) That the SECOND PARTY will not transfer any staff of KVK during the first five years of their serve and approval of FIRST PARTY shall be obtained before effecting any transfer at any point of time. 136 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (xvi) That the SECOND PARTY agrees to implement promotion policy as per FIRST PARTY guideline for scientists and MACPs for other staff. (xvii) The qualifications of the staff under this Project should be as laid down by the FIRST PARTY in this regard any deviation will result in discontinuation of the financial support. (xviii) To recruit competent personnel/staff as per the sanctioned provisions of the Project. (xix) To strictly follow the qualifications, disciplines for recruitment (Appendix VI – KVK Management Guidelines) and score card (Appendix VII – KVK Management Guidelines) as per the guidelines of ICAR for promotion in respect of KVK Personnel. (xx) To keep the duties of the staff in accordance with the provisions made in the project and shall not use the staff for non-mandated activities. (xxi) Not to transfer any personnel appointed for the KVK Project for any work other than that of KVK without the prior concurrence of the FIRST PARTY. (xxii) To treat KVK staff at par for the purpose of privileges, amenities and facilities permissible to other staff of the SECOND PARTY. (xxiii) To provide skilled and unskilled labour as and when required for the project work. (xxiv) To consult the FIRST PARTY before making any change in the programme of the KVK or the personnel employed therein. (xxv) To ensure that any member of staff of the KVK leaving the KVK services leaves behind a report on the work done during the relevant period together with all data collected to enable his/her successor to compile the complete report at the end of the year. (xxvi) To keep the FIRST PARTY constantly informed of the progress and the problems of the KVK through the proceedings of the meetings, training courses being offered etc. (xxvii) To allow the In-charge, Krishi Vigyan Kendra to directly correspond with the FIRST PARTY in matters pertaining to the KVK including policy and financial matters.