 Picking fruits with a 2 cm stalk portion by hand with secateurs, keeping them gently in plastic crates, de-sapping, hot water treatment, cooling, drying, and packing into CF Boxes may be the best option. Postharvest disease management Postharvest management includes the treatment of fruits after they have been harvested in order to extend their disease-free shelf life and maintain their appearance. Harvesting, de-sapping, grading, packaging, storage, and transportation, etc. all require caution. Huge losses are caused by the majority of mango growers’ lack of seriousness. Farmers must recognize the importance of postharvest handling and understand that their responsibility does not end till the fruit reaches the consumer. The following measures can be used to manage a variety of postharvest diseases. 1. New orchards should not be planted in areas that receive a lot of rain during the fruiting season. 2. Taking care of each new flush and orchard sanitation can help reduce anthracnose fungus inoculum build- Bagged fruits Untreated fruits Pre- and post-harvest treated fruits up within the canopy. 3. Pruning and orchard sanitation can reduce latent infection of the stem end rot pathogen in branches and twigs. 4. It has been discovered that covering fruits with paper bags is effective. 5. Fungicide pre-harvest sprays (difenoconazole 25EC @ 0.05%, propineb 70WP @ 0.2%, thiophanate methyl 70WP @ 0.1%, azoxystrobin 23SC @ 0.1%) performed 21-30 days before harvest resulted in excellent disease control. 6. Bacillus licheniformis, Bacillus pumilus, and Bacillus subtilis have been found to be effective against anthracnose when applied to fruits after harvest. 7. Hot water treatment of fruits has proven to be a safe method of controlling all pathogens that cause postharvest rots. The recommended temperature of water and time for dipping fruits has varied, but treatment at 52±1oC for 10 minutes has been found to be the most convenient and effective. 8. Castor oil, eucalyptus oil, lemongrass oil, and garlic bulb, Azadirachta indica, Zingiber officinale, Lantana, and Curcuma longa extracts have all been found to be effective against anthracnose. For further interaction, please write to: P K Shukla, Division of Crop Protection, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, PO Kakori, Lucknow 226 101, Uttar Pradesh. *Corresponding author e-mail: pksmush@gmail.com Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.