 Production from Gaushala Year------------------------- Month/date Total milk Value of dung/manure (Rs) Value of surplus animals sold (Rs) Total value (Rs) Quantity Value (Rs) 9. Sales from gaushala Year------------------------- Date/month Particulars of produce sold Particulars of party Value (Rs) Remarks Cash Credit 17 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS SEGREGATION AND ISOLATION OF ANIMALS Isolation of animals Isolation means segregation of affected animals and in-contact animals in the event of outbreak of a contagious disease from the apparently healthy ones. Preferably such segregated animals should be housed in a separate isolation ward far away from the normal animal houses. The following protocol may be followed in case of isolated animals i. Use separate housing and feeding areas ii. Prevent contact with other animals iii. Prevent manure movement from the isolation area to the rest of the herd iv. Isolate for 21-30 days v. Observe and examine for early disease detection vi. Milk the isolated cows last vii. Test for diseases prior to addition to the main herd Quarantine Quarantine means the segregation of apparently healthy animals (especially animals introduce into the gaushala for the first time), which have been exposed to the risk of infection from those animals, which are healthy and unexposed to risk. The idea is to allow sufficient time, for any contagious disease that quarantined animals may have in the incubation stage, to become active and obvious. Elimination of carriers Some animals carry disease producing organisms without any apparent symptoms and shed them in body secretions and excretions. They are known as ‘carriers’. In a herd the carriers of disease should be detected and eliminated to keep the herd completely free from diseases. Certain diagnostic screening tests such as given below can be used in the herd to detect carriers. The test should be periodically conducted to detect carriers and remov them from herds. CHAPTER 3 Segregation and isolation of animals M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 17 18 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Tuberculin test: This test is carried out to detect the toxic product released by Mycobacterium tuberculosis. This is the reliable test for diagnosing non-clinical cases of tuberculosis in cattle. Tuberculin test may be carried out half-yearly in the initial stage and later on annually. January is the ideal month for conducting this test. Brucellosis test: Brucella abortus causes this disease leading to abortion in late pregnancy (last trimester) followed by high rate of infertility. This is a serological test based on the principal of antigen (dead bacteria) antibody (agglutination present in the serum or milk whey) reaction, resulting in agglutination of bacterial cells in positive cases. Johnin test: This test is carried out for the toxic product released by Mycobacterium paratuberculosis (Jhone’s bacterium).