 Recently, to diversify shrimp farming, selectively bred SPF fast-growing and disease-resistant variety of P. monodon was introduced in India. It is reported that the growth rate and WSSV resistance has been improved after each generation. ICAR-CIBA is facilitating the farming of SPF-Pm at low stocking density. It is expected that the BZEST (Bio-secured zero water exchange system technology) technology developed by ICAR- CIBA will ensure the successful culture and sustainability of this newly introduced species. The institute has also successfully standardized hatchery seed production and farming technologies for other penaeid species like banana shrimp (P. merguiensis); kuruma shrimp (Marsupenaeus japonicas); Pink shrimp (Metapenaeus monoceros) and kadal shrimp (M. dobsoni). Mud crab, Scylla serrata is a high-value seafood most suitable for low intensive brackishwater farming. The hatchery technology for mud crab has been developed by RGCA, the research and development arm of MPEDA and also ICAR-CIBA, over a decade. The commercial seed production of the species, however, is principally limited to the hatchery facility of RGCA and a few small hatcheries in Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra. In grow-out culture, the long rearing period of 10-12 months (to raise from 1 g to >500 g), poor survival, and associated production loss are a dampener for the farmers. To avoid these, a three-tier modular farming system or zero stocking model was developed by ICAR-CIBA, which is getting popular in different states. It fetches Rs 1,000-1,400 kg-1 in export market. 2.2.2.2. Breeding, seed production and grow-out farming of brackishwater finfishes Technology development aimed at species diversification has been a focus over the years. The lack of seed of important cultivable fish species for want of hatchery seed production Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 189 technology remained a major bottleneck for a long period. ICAR-CIBA achieved a technological breakthrough for the year-round breeding of seabass (Lates calcarifer) under the captive condition in the year 1997, followed by a novel system of farming (Arasu et al. 2009). The institute made significant progress in developing a mature broodstock of seabass in captivity (Thirunavukkarasu et al., 2015). The technique of implantation of LHRHa in pellet form in fish was developed. LHRHa in conjunction with HCG was responsible for achieving maturation. Further, sustainable farming of seabass in open brackishwater cages in a three-tier model was also popularized as an alternate livelihood for coastal fishers. Induced breeding of milkfish (Chanos chanos) was achieved by ICAR-CIBA in 2015 as another significant milestone. Milkfish can be farmed in monoculture or polyculture with other species which grow to a marketable size of 500 g in six months. The institute has also successfully bred the grey mullet (Mugil cephalus), a high-valued brackishwater fish, with pond reared broodstock in 2016-17.