 Finally, farmers rights were adopted in 2001. The realization of Farmers’ Rights has been a cornerstone in the implementation of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture. This has been a must for the conservation and sustainable use of these vital resources in situ as well as on-farm. This constitutes the basis of Farmers’ Rights. According to Article 9, governments are to protect and promote Farmers’ Rights, but can choose the measures to do so according to their needs and priorities. Measures may include the protection of traditional knowledge, equitable benefit-sharing, participation in decision-making and the right to save, use, exchange and sell farm- saved seeds and propagating material. The Governing Body of the International Treaty has taken steps to promote the realization of Farmers’ Rights. Approaches to protect farmers’ traditional Knowledge Stewardship approach: Its goal is to protect farmers crops, varieties and knowledge from extinction and to encourage their further use. Benefits are to be shared between custodians of agrobiodiversity and society at large through national and international measures. Legislation should shape/ uphold legal space for farmers to continue maintaining crop genetic diversity. Ownership approach: Its goal is to protect farmers varieties and knowledge from misappropriation and enable its holders to make decisions over use. Benefits are to be shared between purported owners and buyers of genetic resources upon prior informed consent. Legislation should balance intellectual property rights for farmers with plant breeders right. Whatever approach, a stewardship approach or an ownership approach or a combination is chosen, it should not create any hindrance in the sharing of knowledge and genetic resources among farmers, nor should it contribute to genetic erosion or the loss of the traditional knowledge. That would be against the intentions of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture (ITPGRFA). Farmer’s Rights to save, use exchange and sell farm saved seed ensure legal space for farmers with regard to the Intellectual property rights (IPR) and the seed laws, 52 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series enabling the formal and farmer’s seed systems to make their contributions to the global genetic pool and food security— examples are pioneering legal space in India, Basic for food sovereignty and food. Farmers, particularly small farmers, are involved in multiple kinds of seed systems, which help them produce and obtain the seed they need. These systems can be broadly divided into two — a formal seed system and a local system. Formal seed system: It is easier to characterize, as it is a deliberately constructed system that involves a chain of activities leading to clear products that is certified seed of verified varieties.