 Hydroponically grown fodder can be fed to cattle, buffalo, sheep and goats, and chickens, ducks and rabbits. Cultivation of hydroponic fodder Seed preparation and washing: Good quality seeds should be selected for hydroponic system as seed cost (85–90%) is the major capital in the hydroponic fodder production system. The use of broken or damaged or unhealthy seeds should be avoided as they will not grow and germinate properly. Seeds should be dried directly under sunlight one day prior to seed washing. Then washing should be done for 5 minutes with tap water till all dirt and poor-quality seeds are removed. The seeds of various fodders should be soaked in a stimulant solution containing 0.1–1.5% sodium hypochlorite or 1–2% hydrogen peroxide for a period of 20, 12, 10, 6 and 15 hours for maize, jowar, barley, wheat and bajra respectively. Drained off the cleaning solution and the seeds are then washed in tap water. Also add 50–100 gm salt in water as it helps in minimizing fungus growth on the sprouted seed. Seed soaking: The seeds are soaked in fresh aerated water for different periods like 4 h, 8 h, 12–16 h, or overnight, depending on the hardness of the seed coat. Otherwise, add seeds in a bucket containing 5–7 litres of warm water and remove seeds that floats on the water as they will not sprout, and remove impurities. The temperature of the water or solution used for soaking also affects the germination rate. The optimum temperature for soaking is 23°C. Germination of seed: After soaking, spread the seeds at up to 1 cm depth in plastic or lightweight metallic trays with holes to facilitate drainage of the wastewater/nutrient solution, which can be collected in a tank and recycled. A nutrient solution for hydroponic systems is an aqueous solution containing mainly inorganic ions plays a vital physiological role to complete the plant life cycle. The seed rate (quantity of seeds loaded per unit surface area), varies with the type of seeds and also affects the yield of the fodder. The recommended seeding rate for the production of hydroponic barley, wheat or sorghum fodder is 4–6 kg/m2 and for maize is 6.4–7.6 kg/m2. Environmental factors: The environmental factors are important for optimization of the hydroponic fodder growth and production. The standard level of environmental parameters such as temperature (19 to 22°C), humidity (average 60%), light intensity (2000 lux), length (12–16 h and aeration for 3 minutes at every 2 hour interval) should be maintained. In cold climatic conditions, wheat and oats seeds are good, while in hot climatic conditions, maize seeds are suitable for hydroponic fodder production. Loading seeds in trays and racking: A specially constructed frame made of GI pipes or angle bars is erected to hold plastic trays measuring 46 cm × 83 cm × 5 cm in which 1–1.25 kg of seed can be placed to produce about 5.5–7.5 kg of green fodder.