 In the southern part of the country, rice, wheat, jowar, ragi, green gram, horse gram, coconut, ginger, turmeric, cardamom and Arecanut were plenty in cultivation. Malabar was famous for growing various spices viz., cardamom, ginger, pepper, nutmeg, cloves and cinnamon. Abu’l Fazl mentioned that Akbar was interested in garden plants, and he mentioned the name of 21 flowering plants along with their colours and season of flowering in Ain-i-Akbari. He further mentioned another list of 29 flowering plants, and some of them were champa, kewra, saffron, juhi, gulal, ketki, gudhal, nag kesar, kadam and hinna. Among fruit crops, mulberries, pineapple, ber, jack fruit, figs, melon, banana, date palm, pomegranate, guava and water melons are some of the important crops grown during Akbar’s rule. Mango was specially grown in Bengal, Gujarat, Malwa, Khandesh and Dekhan. Mention of various dried fruits (dates and walnuts) and water plants (singhara) was also found. Abu’l Fazl elaborated a list of 18 vegetables of which palwals, gourds and carrots are important. In Ain-i-Akbari, there is mention of sack-cloth, which later was identified as jute from Rangpur, Bengal. Jahangir ruled the Indian subcontinent during 1605-1627, and during his time, melons, mango, grapes and pineapples were found Indian Agriculture after Independence 34 in abundance. He also mentioned the presence of sweet fragrant flowers like champa, keora, ketaki and chambeli. Nur-Jahan, mother of Jahangir was credited to develop ‘itr’ - the extract of essential oils from the rose petals. During the time of Shah Jahan (1628- 1658), improved varieties of cherry, peach, plum, and grapes were introduced from Persia and Afghanistan. 6. Crop husbandry in the British period East India Company, came to India for trade, established its rule on large areas of India after the battle of Plassey in 1757, which lasted until 1858. In 1858, the British crown assumed direct control of India in the form of the new British Raj which lasted till 1947. Until the middle of the 18th century, only indigenous cotton varieties (G. arboreum and G. herbaceum) were grown in different regions of the country. Due to the human skills and dexterity of the local artisans, very fine yarns were produced by them from the short staple and coarse cottons grown in India. In 1788, the Governor General at Calcutta was requested by London to encourage the growth and improvement of Indian cotton to meet the requirements of the Lancashire textile industry. Although, the exact area under indigenous cotton and production in India during this period are not available, it is reported that the local production had stabilized by 1900. The jowar, bajra, and other millets; maize- cooked and eaten as a green vegetable; and rice were cultivated during the wet season, and wheat, barley and pulses during the dry season. Greater proportion of the indigo consumed in Europe was produced in India. It was grown extensively from Dhaka to Delhi.