 Potato field during GHG studies at Modipuram (Meerut) CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 18 Climate change impact on livestock An in vivo study was conducted to investigate the community composition of rumen methanogens in adult male cattle and buffaloes maintained on similar diet. Methanogens belonging to six orders in cattle and seven orders in buffaloes were identified. The methanogens affiliated to the Methano bacteriales were dominant in both the host and represented 72–73% of the total rumen archaea. There was no difference in the distribution of Methano bacteriales between the cattle and buffaloes. In cattle, Methano microbiales were the second most abundant methanogens (3.75%) and they constituted only 0.85% of the total archaea in buffaloes. A study was conducted to assess the resilience to heat stress, and to compare differences in economically important thermo-tolerant gene expression in different indigenous goat breeds (Salem Black, Malabari, Osmanabadi, Kanni Aadu and Kodi Aadu) following their exposure to heat stress. Liver transcriptome analysis revealed superior thermo-tolerance potential of Salem Black as compared to Malabari and Osmanabadi goat breeds. Furthermore, superior climate resilience capacity of Kanni Aadu and Kodi Aadu goat breeds of South India was established by heat stress stimulation model in climatic chamber. the field after 20 days. The grafted plants of tomato on brinjal rootstock sustain the excess moisture (water stagnation) stress for six days and after release of the stress continue to grow and provide normal yield. However, tomato plants on their own root (ungrafted) show wilting symptoms after 24 h of water stagnation resulting in complete wilting. ❑ Interspecific grafting—A strategy for mitigation of flooding stress in tomato Tomato grafting Brinjal rootstock Tomato scion Grafted tomato plants on brinjal rootstock Arka Neelkanth in field Ungrafted tomato plants in field Tomato grafts on brinjal rootstock 4. Genetic Resources Plant genetic resources Germplasm exploration: A total of 25 explorations were undertaken and 1,409 accessions (comprising 772 cultivated and 637 wild) were collected from parts of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Meghalaya, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh. Geo- referencing of the collected germplasm was done in mungbean (7,172) and cowpea (6,382). The gaps for future collection were identified in states for mungbean in Bihar, Gujarat, Odisha, Maharashtra and Rajasthan and Assam, Maharashtra, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura in cowpea. A total of 563 herbarium specimens were processed and added to the National Herbarium of Cultivated Plants (NHCP), New Delhi bringing the holdings to a total of 24,986 specimens. Additionally, 912 virtual herbarium specimens were also processed.