 Scientific management practices need to be adopted for the enhanced growth and performance of elite heifers/ salvaged bull calves. The Technical programme is available with kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Pookode. Livestock: Poultry Improved poultry rearing techniques: Supplies of parent stock chicks to improve the productivity 6of farmer stock as well as supply of day-old commercial chicks to farmers are important strategies to be undertaken on a larger scale in order to augment farmer income. Technologies available with KVASU Promotion of high-tech layer farming High-tech cages designed specifically to grow improved layer varieties that integrate automatic feeding and watering systems and convenient waste disposal systems. Promising layer varieties suitable for back yard or roof top poultry rearing include Athulya (white leghorn) and BV 380 that yield more than 300 eggs per annum. Livestock: Meat (Pig, buffalo, Goat) Improved meat production techniques Farming animals for meat production is the most profitable and risk free venture in the animal husbandry sector. The following action programmes may be undertaken under the leadership of KVASU: Maintenance of good quality breeding stock to progressive farmers to establish certified satellite breeding units. Following standard operating protocols for breeding and fattening units The certified units to provide good quality fattening young ones to farmers. Meat technology unit to make arrangements to buy back the adult fattening stock from the certified units. Training progressive farmers on scientific feeding and management practices. Technologies available with KVASU 284 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Livestock: other gen- eral Strategies Timely prevention and diagnosis of animal diseases Livestock disease management can reduce disease through improved animal husbandry practices. These include: controlled breeding, controlling entry to farm lots, and quarantining sick animals and through developing and Improving antibiotics, vaccines and diagnostic tools, evaluation of ethno-therapeutic options, and vector control techniques. Livestock disease management is made up of two key components viz., prevention (biosecurity) measures in susceptible herds and adoption of control measures taken once infection occurs. Some priority areas include: Prevention and control of mastitis Prevention and control of parasitic infestations- both internal and external Immunization and seromonitoring Rapid Diagnosis Technologies available with KVASU. Aquacul- ture Genetically improved fish seeds Conventional tilapia used for present farming attains marketable size of 200gm by one year, but the Genetically Improved Farmed Tilapia (GIFT) attains the same size within four months.