 Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at ICAR-NBAIM, Mau in tomato, maize, rice, and wheat under nethouse and field conditions, KVK Ghazipur in chickpea, KVK Azamgarh in direct seeded rice, ICAR-IISS Mau in wheat and under farmers’ fields in vegetables, onion, chickpea and wheat. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Nil 6. Benefits: Eco-Pesticide has shown remarkable response in the experimental fields of ICAR- IISS, Mau with respect to crop establishment and protection from spot blotch disease of wheat, at ICAR-NBAIM on sheath blight in rice, and wilt of tomato (45-55%) as well as at the farmers’ fields with respect to crop growth and yield. It could save the usage of chemical pesticides from 15 to 25% without compromising yield and growth of the plants. It is found to be effective against a number of soil and seed borne pathogens like Rhizoctonia, Sclerotium, Sclerotinia, Fusarium, Pythium, Ralstonia, Macrophomina, Bipolaris, Phoma, etc. Root colonization by Pseudomonas fluorescens frequently enhances root growth and development, crop productivity, resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses and the uptake, use and translocation of essential plant nutrients from soil. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR- National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms, Mau- 275103 14 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bio-Pulse 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bio-Pulse is talc based bioformulation of Trichoderma harzianum and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and has biocontrol; plant growth promotion; nutrient mobilization and root colonization properties. It has a longer shelf life of 12 – 18 months). 2. Target crops and delivery system: Bio-Pulse can be used for cereals, millets, pulses, vegetables, plantation crops, etc. Inoculation can be done through seed treatment, root dip for seedlings and soil application for tree and plantation crops. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated against seed and soil borne disease of chickpea at multiple locations of Bundelkhand region such as KVK Hamirpur, KVK Tikamgarh, KVK Chhattarpur, KVK Panna, KVK Ghazipur, and ICAR-IARI, for rice at KVK Azamgarh; for Tomato, Wheat and Maize at ICAR-NBAIM, Mau and under farmers’ fields for chickpea, pea, lentil, vegetables, and wheat. In addition the technology has given good results in papaya (Begusarai, Hazaribagh and Bhabhua, Bihar). 5. Benefits: Bio-Pulse has shown remarkable response in the ICAR-NBAIM and KVK farms as well as farmers’ field with respect to disease control, crop growth and yield. It is effective against a number of soil and seed borne pathogens like Rhizoctonia, Sclerotium, Sclerotinia, Fusarium, Pythium, Ralstonia, Macrophomina, Bipolaris, Phoma, Xanthomonas etc. It could save the usage of chemical pesticides.