 Artificial intelligence would make faster data collection, collation and processing and blockchain would improve traceability, would strengthen supply chains, would build consumer trust and help ensure more remunerative prices for farmers. Agribusiness Investment Agriculture is the last sector to benefit from recent technological innovations which have revolutionized sectors such as health care, education, banking and financial services. The disparity is stark. Most agtech innovations and investments have been in the developed world, but things are changing. In 2019, investment in digital technology (combining imagery, precision agriculture and sensors and farm equipment) made up a significant proportion of venture capital investment. This continuing increase in attention to investment in agriculture must be encouraged. Modern breeding: Modern technologies help speeding up the breeding process (speed breeding including single seed descent and the use of molecular markers) thus shortening the time to develop new varieties and to produce biofortified crops to contribute to improved nutrition of consumers. Biotechnology contributes to innovations in crop improvement, leading to development of traits faster, solving intractable or novel problems in a targeted manner by using gene editing, genetic resource sequencing for faster access to new traits. Biotechnology can also contribute to novel foods, for example using plant-based proteins or laboratory-based products. Policy makers must closely track innovations, put in place policy frameworks to support and manage innovations in future food systems. Future of Dryland Agriculture This should focus on inclusive, sustainable, efficient, nutrition sensitive and profitable approaches. Inclusive means smallholders in the drylands must be fully integrated into food systems — they should have access to inputs, markets, finance, storage etc. For farmers to be equal partners, they need an appropriate supportive environment, infrastructure, services, policies and regulations. Agriculture should be sustainable and for this we need collective efforts such as with circular agriculture (in circular agriculture, waste is seen as a raw material to produce new valuable products, including crops, food, feed and energy. Another characteristic of the concept is the need to reduce resource consumption and discharges into the environment). and regenerative agriculture (system of farming principles and practices that seeks to rehabilitate and enhance the entire ecosystem of the farm by placing a heavy premium on soil health with attention also paid to water management, fertilizer use, etc.) 142 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series The drylands predominately remain under the subsistence agriculture and investments in them are low and consequently produce is often of poor quality and yield are unreliable. Policies are not always focused on, nor supportive, of the needs of the dryland agriculture.