 The Institute adopted a cluster of three villages in Garur block of district Bageshwar in Uttaranchal under ‘Technology Assessment and Refinement’ Project through Institution-Village Linkage Programme of the NATP. The project envisaged diversified activities such as crop husbandry, poultry, animal husbandry and fodder management. In addition to demonstrations and on-farm trials, the farmers were also given training on various aspects of agriculture at Almora, Pantnagar and Pashulok, Rishikesh. ICAR RESEARCH COMPLEX FOR NEH REGION, UMIAM Farming System Research for North-Eastern Region Economic analysis of two potential agro-forestry system, viz. agro-horticulture system and multi-purpose tree species-based system, in north-eastern region showed that net present value and benefit : cost ratio from the agro-forestry systems were always higher than those of tree components. Ginger as an intercrop was more profitable than its sole crop. Agri-horti-silvi-pastoral model was identified as the most viable alternative to shifting cultivation, with a ratio of 1:48. Comparison between shifting cultivation and agro-forestry systems showed that agro-forestry system was 15 times more lucrative than that of shifting cultivation. A benefit : cost ratio of 2.94 also indicated the financial viability of the system. Edible Bamboo A survey of priority species for edible bamboo shoots in Arunachal Pradesh showed that about 50 bamboo plant species are being used for edible purposes, but use of 15 bamboo species are most prevalent. In respect of delicacy, Bambusa arundinacea, B. tulda, Dendrocalamus giganteus, D. hamiltonii and D. membranceus were preferred. The D. hamiltonii ranked first as per the availability. Survey of traditional dishes made out of fresh and fermented edible shoots revealed that largely fermented edible shoots are being used as flavouring ingredients in various vegetarian and non-vegetarian dishes. Fermented products were made without any preservatives which can be stored for a period of six months to two years. A good crop of Vivek Dhan 62 at farmer’s field ● Intercropped ginger proved more profitable than its sole crop ● Agro-forestry system proved 15 times more lucrative than shifting cultivation ● Fermented products made from edible shoots of bamboo without preserv- atives could be stored for six months to two years DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 192 4. 4. 4. 4. 4. National Agricultural Technology Project National Agricultural Technology Project National Agricultural Technology Project National Agricultural Technology Project National Agricultural Technology Project The National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP), a World Bank-aided project, is being implemented by the ICAR and the Department of Agriculture and Cooperation (DAC) since November 1998. It has three major components, viz. Research, Organization and Management Systems and Innovations in Technology Dissemination.