 An aromatic annual 30–600 cm tall found wild in Kashmir, Punjab and the upper gangetic plains and widely cultivated in many parts of India. The flowers are white or yellowish. 253 Triumfetta rotundifollia - T- Mudappoondu Tel-Banki Kan-Tutturi The plant is used as demulscent. It is a small under shrub, found almost through out India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 386 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 254 Vertilago denticulata willd - H-Pitti B-Ruktupita M-Sakalyel Tel-Errashi-ratalatige Kan-Kuriyadi O-Pittoli The bark is powdered and applied on sprains. The sap is used for deafness. Large scandent shrub found more or less through out India. The flowers are greenish with an offensive odour, in cluster on large, axillary or terminal pubescent panicle. 255 Vigna aconitifolia Moth or Moth bean H-Moth B-Kheri M-Math Guj-Mut Tel-Kumcumapesalu T-Tulukkapayir Kan-Madike Tender pods are used considerably as vegetable and dried pulse is eaten as dal. The pulse is useful diet in case of flatulent and fever. Perennial or annual herb found through out India from the Himalayas to Kannya Kumari, ascending upto 1200 m specially in the north-west. It is native of India. It is grown in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Gujarat, Punjab, Harayana, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. 256 Vigna radiata Greengram H-Moong B-Moong M-Mug Guj-Mag Tel-Uthulu T-Pasi payaru Kan-Hesaru Mal-Cherupayaru Decoction of the seed is used as an effective diuretic in berry-berry. The herb is valued as a feed for cattle and horses. It may be used as a supplement to the culture medium in the production of streptomycin from Streptomyces griseus. An extract of the germinated pulse may be used as a substitute for corn steep- liquor in the production of penicillin. Erect or sub-erect annual, cultivated almost through out India. The flowers are yellow or yellowish-green. It is supposed to be native of India and central Asia. The major producing areas are Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Orissa and Tamil Nadu, whereas, Punjab, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal and Karnataka cultivate this crop to a lesser extent. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 387 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 257 Viola serpens - H-Banaf shah P-Banfsha Decoction of the flower is administered for improving the complexion. Active principle of the herb is an alkaloid, violine. The herb is considered to possess medicinal properties. A hirsute or glabrous herb found through out the temperate Himalayas upto an altitude of 2000 m extending east wards to the hills of Meghalaya, Nagaland and Manipur.