 The text mentioned the law (Veterinary Jurisprudence), and provision of punishments and penalties imposed on committing crime (robbery or on ill treatment to cows) and non-compliance to pay taxes related to animal husbandry. During the Mauryan period, the horses received special attention, as grading of horses based on their utility in battle or transportation has been documented. Thoroughbred horses were widely kept during this period. Besides feeding grasses, a good detail of their feeding schedules has been described which included the parched rice, drippings, minced meat, and red rice-powder. Elephants were the prized possession of the kings and were used in warfare, to storm the forts of enemy kings and smash open the massive doors of the forts. Kings and army used elephants to move even in dense forests and marshy lands. Provision for capital punishment was kept on killing the elephants for their tusks during this period. The great king Ashoka (300 BC) gave veterinary science a major thrust in India. It is described that “the first known veterinary hospital of the world existed in Ashoka’s regime - Schwabe (1978). During the Gupta period, the knowledge documented in ‘Arthashastra’ prospered until Islamic rulers invaded India in 800 AD. 3. Animal husbandry during the medieval era 3.1. Medieval Indian dynasties The medieval India is the period between the end of the Gupta Empire in the 6th Century and the start of the Mughal Empire in 1526. During this period, Indian subcontinent was majorly ruled by 32 dynasties at different periods in different geographical regions. Many dynasties were contemporary with each other. Among 32 dynasties, the documentary evidence on animal husbandry is possibly available for 18 dynasties. In these dynasties, animals were majorly used for the purpose of military, transport, draft, food, ceremonial activities, maintenance of temples, and recreational fighting. As the elephants and horses were used in military and for the transport of royal class, veterinary science was well developed especially in Reddy dynasty (Reddy 1991). Cow ghee was used for perpetual lamps in temples. Specifically, during the Eastern Chalukya period, cows, sheep and goats were donated to temples for performing daily sacred activities. The numbers of Indian Agriculture after Independence 46 animals were donated according to the number of perpetual lamps in a temple and they were maintained by a community called “Golla or Boya”. Apart from the milk and ghee, people used to consume meat. The meat of goats, sheep, pigs, poultry, hare and boar was commonly sold in Chalukya dynasty (Sastri 1955). Use of goats, sheep, pigs and fowl continued for meat purpose in Western Chalukya dynasty (Sastri 1955). Similarly, hides were the part of exports during Rashtrakuta dynasty, in which bullocks and horses were used for business travels (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ Economy_of_Rashtrakuta_empire_of_ Manyakheta).