 He advocated for Khadi and all other village industries and worked hard in promoting them in the country till his last days. The Government of India follows the concepts and ethics of Gandhiji and has launched many schemes for rural development and rural employment. Ministry of Rural Development, for example, is implementing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY- Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 178 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR NRLM), Deen Dayal Upadhyay – Gramin Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G), Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), Shyama Prasad Mukherjee National RuRBAN Mission and National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) to bring about overall improvement in the quality of life of the people in rural areas, through employment generation, strengthening of livelihood opportunities, promoting self- employment, skilling of rural youths, provision of social assistance and other basic amenities. Gandhiji advocated that the agricultural produce must be processed in the villages before distribution and marketing. Continuous Government Interventions have resulted in nearly 25 lakhs units of unorganized food processing industries in rural India and about 80 percent of them are family-based enterprises supporting livelihood to rural households and minimising their migration to urban areas. These units largely fall within the category of micro enterprises. Unorganized food processing sector faced a number of challenges, which limit their performance and their growth. The challenges include lack of access to modern technology and equipment, training, access to institutional credit, lack of basic awareness on quality control of products; and lack of branding and marketing skills. Government has initiated progressive steps to mitigate these problems. Recently Ministry of Food Processing Industries has launched a Centrally sponsored scheme, ‘PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises’ (PM FME) to provide financial, technical and business support for small and micro food processing enterprises. This scheme would generate total investment of Rs 35,000 crore and generate nine lakh skilled and semi-skilled employment and benefit 8 lakh units through access to information, training, better exposure and formalization. Gandhiji’s conception of Swaraj or complete independence is possible only through agricultural and ago-based industries development. According to him policies must support on-farm food production and off-farm cottage industries that uses agricultural produce as raw material and those generate rural employment. His was not a centralized mass production, but a concept of production by the masses and is based on private partnership mode supported by public interventions.