 List of constraints and their remedies Constraints Remedies Climate in north-east India Need climate adaptive varieties Soils of north-east India Apply lime (@ 200-500 kg) in each year or alternate years Topography of north-east India Farmers should use contour farming system Farming system and nature of the farmers NGOs may be encouraged and they might help to uplift the standard and could improve the extension system of poor farmers in northeast India through PPP (Public- private partnership) Use of seed as inputs Upliftment and up gradation of seed industry or establishment of seed industry in the region nearby for development of climate adaptive wheat varieties Limited number of new varieties or high-yielding wheat varieties Development of early duration variety that mature at least 15 days before pre-monsoon shower. Encouraging the breeders for such varieties Pests, diseases, weed and water management The crop should be planted timely to escape the pest or disease incidence. Proper drainage and irrigating at the critical stages are important Food processing and handling Proper infrastructure, communication network and storage are the key to immense increase of profit and dramatic decrease of food waste Marketing For creation of more man-power in marketing system, formation of co-operative society and to sell their produce is necessary trait those are well fitted in north- eastern India climatic situations. The third and most prominent problem is market problem, as the north-eastern India people traditionally consume and cultivate rice crop therefore the market is fully captured by rice dealers and private companies who export rice outside the counties. Government should step forward and make the policy to give the appreciation to the wheat cultivating farmers. As soon as possible working plan for the prevention of these problems should be created and everyone should be encouraged for the better service of the govt. agencies/department of agriculture. It could improve the living standard of the poor Indian farmers in the region of such high tension and could enhance the chance of better education, living standard and income, and overall development of the nation as a whole. SUMMARY In Northeast India, even there are various problems such as climate, soil and market are the related to production and productivity of wheat, but the prevention of these problems is a big challenge for the farmers, extension workers, breeders and the agricultural department of the state or center. The breeders and agricultural scientists should step forward to breed the climate adaptive wheat varieties and government should make various policies to appreciate the farmer to apply the lime to the soil and facilitates the market system to sell the farmers produce. *Corresponding author email: vikrantkhare@jnkvv.