 Then, he contacted some agriculture scientists and extension officers, several times, while having thorough discussions regarding various innovative options to enhance farm income. In 2015, he visited KVK, Chittorgarh; and subsequently, he underwent a training on improved cultivation practices of strawberry. In the same year, he started cultivating strawberry in a small area under the technical guidance of Scientists of that KVK. After getting encouraging results, he gained confidence, and extended strawberry cultivation to 1.00 ha in the year 2020. He brought mother plants of three varieties (Winter Down, Winter Star and Sweet Sensation), imported from California; and planted the same in his field. Afterwards, he was able to produce thousands of plants from runners of mother plants, and planted on raised bed, on mulching sheet, with drip irrigation system in September. He sold strawberry fruits in the market of Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmadabad and other metropolitan cities. He earned a net income of 11.60 lakh per ha with 5.83 BCR. Other than strawberry production, now he has also raised 2.00 lakh plants of strawberry and earned a gross income of 10.00 lakh, by selling of plants to the farmers during 2021. He has branded his strawberry as ‘Shiv Shakti’, and started selling with proper modern-day attractive packing. Adding an innovative enterprise to his farm has enormously increased his income. With an increased income, he not only has improved and secured his livelihood, but also has generated employment for his family members. He has also improved his social status with more acceptance, recognition and respect as an innovative young farmer, as he is the first farmer in the hilly area of Chittorgarh district to cultivate strawberry, successfully. Now more than 15 farmers from Rajasthan and adjoining state of Madhya Pradesh have been motivated to start cultivation of strawberry, and they approached him for planting materials and cultivation technology. For strawberry cultivation, several farmers visited his farm, and took technical advices regarding cultivation on large scale, on a sustainable basis. CASE STUDY Enhancing Farmers’ Income via “Strawberry Cultivation” : A Case Study from Chittorgarh District of Rajasthan A view of strawberry cultivation by Shri Nemichand Dhakar A view of strawberries harvested by Shri Nemichand Dhakar Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development KVK Bijnour introduced bio-fortified wheat variety DBW 187, rich in iron (43.10 ppm) as compared to other wheat varieties (28.00 ppm), through On Farm Testing during Rabi-2019-20 and through Frontline Demonstrations during 2020-21 to 2021-22 at 71 farmer’s fields. The average yield at Farmers field was 71.00 q/ha (78.00 q maximum yield per ha.) with cost of cultivation of 47,516/ha. The average net profit per ha was recorded as 1,19,825.