 l Nine sensitization-cum-trainings and workshops have been organized to sensitize the scientists regarding the PME philosophy and methods. Human Resources Development for Agricultural Research and Education Management l Three computer-assisted instructional modules have been developed. The instructional resource material in Gender has been developed on gender roles in agriculture, gender in time and labour use and, gender-specific knowledge and skills in agriculture. l District-level databases of agricultural resources and production, covering 369 districts, were integrated into a database management system. l The maps of the States of India and the Agro-ecological Sub-regions have also been digitized in Geomedia GIS. The maps of the States were linked to the all India state-level database, and thematic maps of agricultural production, trends, etc. were generated. Information System Development (ISD) Library Information System (LIS) l For developing a LIS that will make library information available electronically, to every scientist in the NARS, a project involving 18 Regional Libraries (4 DUs, 3 ICAR Research Institutes and 11 State Agricultural Universities) as the hub and 98 libraries as the satellite libraries have been launched. Scientific abstract databases have already been made available to all those libraries. l In a training on Networking Agricultural Libraries conducted by a foreign consultant, 26 Libraries participated. Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture (DIPA) l In a pioneering effort the DIPA has brought out the electronic version of: – Handbook of Horticulture (e-book) – ICAR Research Projects Information System—a database on Research Projects Files (RPF) – Digital Photolibrary – Vision 2020 l Under the ICAR-CABI Work plan, the Director, Chief Production Officer and Technical Officer of the DIPA visited CABI for planning and acquiring technology for e-publishing and database development. l The Agricultural Research Information Centre under the DIPA has developed the National Agricultural Research Database (NARD), as a continuing effort, under the ICAR-CABI Work plan, under NATP. Database on 82 All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) was also developed. WEB-BASED NETWORKS Two web-based networks, one among agricultural economists (http:// www.agrieconet.nic.in) and another among agricultural statisticians (http:// iasri.delhi.nic.in/ASN/) were made operational. They serve for exchanging information and creating a primary-source dynamic database of economic and social information on the Indian farming situations. TRAINING MANUALS Five training manuals, viz. Creating databases in MS Access, Querying Geographic Databases in ARCVIEW, GIS Project in Geomedia, GIS Project in IDRISI, GIS Application using MS Excel, with practical exercises were prepared.