 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 244 Feed materials should be store in dry place to avoid possible fungal growth (Aflatoxicosis). Foot bath should be made at the entry point of the farm to reduce the contamination. Balance and timely feeding (dry fodder, roughages, concentrate, vitamin, minerals,) should be practice for the optimum production and good health. Avoid slippery floor especially in case of pregnant cattle. Timely vaccination and deworming should be practice. Poultry Birds Litter materials should be dried and frequently changed in the poultry farm to prevent the incidence of coccidiosis. Proper ventilation and spacing should be followed in poultry farm to prevent the incidence of diseases. Provide artificial heating to poultry birds (day old to 25 days old) through lightning of electric bulb to protect them from low temperature during nighttime. Keep the poultry house well ventilated during daytime. Vaccinate against Ranikhet, IBD, Fowl pox, Marek disease in poultry birds. Poultry birds should be de-wormed with piperazine @32mg/ kg in two consecutive feed or water against round worms and Albendazole against other worm @10mg/kg body weight with or without Praziquantel @5 mg/kg body weight and depending upon age of the bird. Piggery Pigs should be de-wormed with Albendazole @5 mg/kg body weight and Piperazine specifically against round worm @110- 200mg/kg body weight. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 245 Pig farmers are advised for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @50-60 gm/day for pregnant sow and calcium to the lactating sows @60-80 ml/day/sow. Restrict the movement of visitors into the farms and follow strict bio-security measures. Use of good disinfectant in foot bath. In pigs vaccinate against Swine fever. Vaccination for FMD, BQ and HS for bovines. Creep box with heating source (bulb) should be used in piglets’ pens to reduce the mortality due to trampling by the snow and cold shock. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 246 ARUNACHAL PRAdesH Field crops Rabi Maize Sowing of rabi maize at lower elevated areas should be done in September and completed preferably by mid-October and not delayed further as it may reduce the yield. High yielding hybrids (F1 hybrids) like HQPM-1, C-1415, PAC- 705 etc and composite varieties like Vijay, VL Makka-88, etc are recommended for rabi season. Seed treatment with Bavistin + Captan in 1:1 ratio @ 2g/kg seed is recommended at a spacing of 60cm row to row and 20 cm plant to plant. FYM @10 q/ha along with seed treatment with Azotobacter and PSB are also recommended for organic rabi maize. Intercropping of rabi maize with winter vegetables like cole crops, carrot, pea, potato, local beans etc may be practiced for increasing productivity. Two weeding at 30 -60 DAS are recommended to avoid any kind of water and nutrient stress for maize in rabi season. Cobs should be harvested when moisture is not more than 20% in grains. Harvested cobs should be sun dried properly before shelling.