 The project(s) are reviewed once by the Advisory Committee and once by the Experts Committee in a year. A Cost Committee chaired by the ADG/ Director, NASF examine all the aspects of the budget/finance of the projects before it is awarded. 1.8 Modes of funding of projects The projects are awarded under the two modes viz., Competitive and Sponsored Modes. Competitive mode: Steps for project submission, selection and approval under competitive mode: Generally, brain storming conference/ meeting is held before inviting the pre-proposals under different components and specific areas. Pre-Proposals for projects in the identified strategic areas in prescribed formats are called through open call. The submission process is entirely electronic through web base platform. The proposals having multi-institutional collaboration are preferred. The Pre-Proposals are first screened at the Secretariat level on the basis of whether the basic eligibility criteria are 5 met. The screened Pre-Proposals are further screened by subject matter Experts Committees duly constituted. The Pre-Proposals recommended by the expert committees are developed into full proposals in prescribed formats. The PIs are asked to present their full proposals before the respective committees. Proposals approved & recommended by the Experts Committees, are examined by a Cost Committee for finalizing the budget of each project. The finally selected proposals are modified/improved according to the recommendations of the respective committees and submitted to the Director for verification and acceptance. The selection of the projects under competitive mode is a three/four- stage process given as under for different components: Basic and Strategic Research and Translational Research The selection of the competitive projects will be a three-stage process. Advertisement for submission of Pre-Proposals ↓ Screening for selection of Pre-Proposals by Experts Committees ↓ Full project proposal development & evaluation ↓ Presentation by PIs and Selection by Experst Committees ↓ Approval by Board Rest of the guidelines for implementation, monitoring, evaluation, finance, extension etc. remain same as per projects selection and award process under NASF. Extramural Competitive Grant The selection of the competitive projects is a four-stage process. Advertisement for submission of Pre-Proposals ↓ Recommendations of Pre-proposals through Subject Matter Divisions of ICAR ↓ Screening for selection of Pre-Proposals by Experts Committee ↓ Full project proposal development & evaluation ↓ Presentation by PIs and Selection by Experts Committee ↓ Approval by Board Rest of the guidelines for implementation, monitoring, evaluation, finance, extension etc. remain same as per projects selection and award process under NASF. Scientific Validation of Farmers Innovation The selection of the competitive projects is a four-stage process.