 The treated insects were transferred to separate specimen tubes Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS containing untreated cabbage leaves on food. Mortality counts were taken for hour after the treatment. The moribund insects were also counted as dead. The data were statistically analysed by applying analysis of variance and the LD5() values were calculated by using the probit analysis. Bangalore During kharif 2004 the ITK was revalidated experimentally at IIHR, Bangalore where only cow urine and cowdung ash were tested for their efficacy in reducing the insect pests. Cabbage F hybrid Krishna was planted on 30 May 2004 in plots of 3x3 m with a total cabbage plant population of 24 per plot. On the same day of planting 3 litres fresh cow urine was collected in an earthen pot and buried near the experimental plot. After 1 month, 100 ml of the buried and waine fresh cow urine were tested for their total nitrogen, total protein and albumin at the National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology, Banglore. Cowdung ash was obtained by burning dried cowdung. On the day of the treatments, fresh urine was brought for spray and used. The treatments were: spray of old cow urine and fresh urine at 10, 20 and 30% density, cowdung ash @ 50, 100 and 150 g/plant, sprays of standard insecticides (alimethoate 30 EC@ 2ml/litre to control aphid and the untreated check. The treatments were given thrice, i.e. first on 10 June 2004 when the cabbage plants were having 4-5 leaves and the second on 20 June 2004, i.e. 10 days after the first spray. Observations on the incidence of insect pests were taken up just before the first and second treatments on the same dates. Subsequently four observations were taken at 10 days interval. For this 10 plants from each plot were selected randomly and observed carefully for the pests. On 30 July 2004, the incidence of the cocoons of the larvae parasitoid of diamond back moth, Costesia plutelae was also taken. The observation on the incidence of a major pest, stem-borer, causing aborted head formation was taken on 26 June 2004. For this all the plants in each plot were observed and the incidence percentage, was worked out. The toxicity data were also taken and calculated. Cabbage was harvested on 19 August 2004 and the number of healthy cabbage and damaged due to insect pest was counted plot-wise and percentage marketable heads was worked out plot wise. The experiment was conducted in RBD. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Data obtained during 2002 from the experiments conducted in Himachal Pradesh showed that there was significant decline in aphid population in cabbage after 10 days of treatment by aged cow urine. Full control of aphid population was obtained after day 35 in urine treatment. This phenomenon was observed much earlier with higher concentration. There was consistent positive effect in controlling the aphid population and the differences were significant.