 They also play a crucial role in environmental conservation by facilitating nutrient recycling, which enhances soil health, preserves biodiversity, and reduces greenhouse gas emissions through carbon sequestration, thereby making IFS farms more resilient to climate change. In the long term, IFS has the potential to meet future food demands while simultaneously improving ecosystem services. To promote the adoption of IFS, it is essential to evaluate government policies that support capital investments, infrastructure development, and on- field demonstrations, particularly for smallholder and marginal farmers. *Corresponding author email: hodee@pau.edu IFS Models HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No.