 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 846 Treatment for afara Volume 2, page 357 Onion and turmeric Onion: Refer to ITK Code No. 689 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 1189 Treatment of stomach pain with mandar leaves Volume 2, page 357 Mandar, garlic and turmeric Garlic: Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Turmeric: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical name Active ingredients 1575 Cure from stomach pain in animals by bengsag Volume 2, page 358 Bengsag Assamese: Manimuni; Bengali: thankuni, tholkuri; Hindi: brahma-manduki, khulakhudi, mandookaparni; Kannada: brahmisoppu, vandelaga-illikiwigidda; Malayalam: kodangal, muyalchevi; Marathi: karinga, karivana; Oriya: thalkudi; Sanskrit: mandukaparni, mutthil; Tamil: vallarai; Telugu: brahmi, saraswataku. Centella, Indian pennywort Centella asiatica (Linn.) Urban The plant is valued in indigenous medicine for treatment of leprosy and skin diseases and also to improve memory. In pharmacological and clinical trials it has been found to improve the power of concentration and general ability and behaviour of mentally retarded children. The plant shows good therapeutic effects on peptic ulcers. It is one of the components of the drug Geriforte, which is used for senile prurit. A paste of the plant is applied on boils and tumours. A syrup of the leaves with ginger and black pepper is taken for cough. Leaf juice with palm jaggery is given to women as a tonic after delivery. The leaf juice is rubbed on the forehead to cure severe headache. Mixed with bath water, it is used in eczema. The leaf extract is used in the preparation of a medicated oil for bone fracture. An alcoholic extract of the herb gives an essential oil possessing the strong odour of the herb, a fatty oil, tannin and a resinous substance. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Habit A prostrate, faintly aromatic, stoloniferous perennial herb, up to 2 m long, commonly found as a weed in crop fields and other waste places throughout India up to an altitude of 600 m. Stem glabrous, pink and striated, rooting at the nodes; leaves fleshy, orbicular-reniform, crenate-dentate, base cordate and often lobed, long-petioled, smooth on the upper surface and sparsely hairy on the lower; flowers red, pink or white, in fascicled umbels; fruits oblong, dull brown, laterally compressed, pericarp hard and thickened, woody, white. The plant is found in abundance on moist, sandy or clayey soils, often in large clumps forming a dense green carpet. It is a useful cover crop in plantations; its cultivation is also recommended for preventing surface run-off on steep slopes. It is propagated from seeds or from stolons.