 It will increase the family labor employment and provide steady income and nutritious food. Integrated Farming System Farming system research (FSR) is considered as a powerful tool for the management of natural and human resource in developing countries like India. FSR is a multi-disciplinary whole- farm approach for solving the problems of small and marginal farmers. This approach aims at increasing income and employment from smallholdings by integrating various farm enterprises and recycling crop residues and by-products within the farm itself. Under the gradual shrinking of land holding, it is required to integrate the land-based enterprises like dairy, fishery, poultry, duck-rearing, apiary, field and horticultural crops etc. within the bio-physical and socioeconomic environment of the farmers to make farming more profitable and dependable. Currently, doubling the farm incomes has become a major focus of Government of India and specifically the vision of our honorable Prime Minister. Besides, attracting and retaining rural youth to agriculture has been a major challenge for the nation. Farmers are leaving agriculture, since it is becoming unprofitable under present scenario due to numerous resource- and production-vulnerabilities apart from unpredictability of nature due to climate change. Under such scenario, integrated farming systems (IFS) seems to be a ray of hope which has great potential in raising the farmers’ incomes and employment generation, minimizing the risks in farming and enhancing the resource use efficiency, thus, leading to sustainable agriculture growth. IFS also prove as a potential approach for retaining the rural youth in agriculture through ample farm employment under different farm enterprises and better livelihood options in small and marginal farms. In view of the decline in per capita availability of land from 0.5 ha in 1950-51 to 0.15 ha by the turn of the century and a projected further decline to less than 0.1 ha by 2020, it is imperative to develop strategies and agricultural technologies that enable adequate employment and income generation, especially for small and marginal farmers who constitute more than 80 percent of the farming community. An integrated farming system represents multiple crops (cereals, legumes, tree crops, vegetables, flowers, medicinal plants etc.) and multiple enterprises (animal farming, bee keeping, fish farming, mushroom etc) in a single farm. Integration of allied activities will result in the availability of nutritious food enriched with protein, carbohydrate, fat, minerals and vitamins. Integrated farming will help in environmental protection through effective recycling of waste from animal activities like piggery, poultry, goat-rearing and dairy. Animals play key and multiple roles in the functioning of the farm, and not only because they provide livestock products (meat, milk, eggs, wool, and hides) but can also be converted into prompt cash in times of need.