 Besides, the farmers of this area use red mud and wood ash in equal proportion as paste to enhance keeping quality of seed ginger, by providing protection against scale insects (Orissa). Dash et al. (2002) 93 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 235 Control of stem- borer in fruit trees by kerosene oil swap Wherever stem-borer is seen doing damage, the kerosene soaked swap is put there. This practice is so effective that even the scientists and officers of horticultural departments advise this method to control the stem-borer (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 236 Control of cynodon dactylon Dharo (Cynodon dactylon) is a noxious, perennial, grassy weed that grows on fertile patches and bunds in the fields. Even running a harrow for interculturing is very difficult in spots where the weed grows. The weeds are difficult to remove even manually.Dry stalks of the cumin plant are spread over the field in summer. In the monsoons, the rain water gets absorbed in the stalks before filtering down to the soil. It is believed that the water filtering through the cumin stalks prevents the germination and growth of the Dharo. It takes almost 1 year for the stalks to decompose (Mehasana, Gujarat). Thakor (1996) 237 Cotton shells for control of Cyprus rotandus Cyperus rotundus is a noxious weed. It grows in patches in black and sandy loam soils. It is localy called as 'chhaya' in Saurashtra and 'chidho' in middle Gujarat. It grows in patches in the field. Its roots go deep into the soil. Roots bear a gall like structure called 'nut sedge'. It is very difficult to remove this weed by interculturing. It regenerates when it is cut at the stem above the ground. Some farmers of Rajkot district use empty shells of cotton ball to control it. After removal of lint cotton from balls nutshells become waste. These nutshells are broadcast in the field where patches of 'chidho' are found. It is layered up to 3 inch thickness in these patches 1 month before rainy season begins. The field is then cultivated by plough to incorporate it well into the soil. Farmers believe that when it rains, the water infiltrates through shells. This burns or kills the root/sedge of the weed. By this practice, the field remains weed free for about 2-3 years (Rajkot, Gujarat). Gami (1996) 94 6 Soil Fertility Management S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Improvement of soil texture and structure by use of clay, silt and soil Use of inorganic inputs like clay, silt as well as soils are used to manipulate the texture and structure of soil (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 2 Weed as an indicator of soil fertility Soil is more fertile if 'dharo' (Cynodon dactylon) and 'Kasdo' (weed plants) grow naturally in the field. This type of field is preferred for growing of crops requiring more plant nutrients like cotton and castor.