 All these remedies are found to be very effective Keywords: bhilama, desibordi, zipto, lukewarm 3490 Cure for diarrhoea, conjuctivitis and other ailments of livestock The ITKs are useful for many common diseases in cattle. 1. Retention of placenta: About 1 kg leaves of mahua (Madhuca indica) or tender leaves of bamboo (Bambusa arundiacea) are fed immediately after partutrition and the placenta will drop within 2 hr. 2. Diarrhoea: Juice from 2 kg bark of aristo (Bahuinia racemosa) is extracted and mixed with 1 litre water and then filtered. This filterate is administered orally once or twice a day for 2 days. Diarrhoea can be effectively cured by this treatment. 3. Conjuctivitis (inflammation of eyes): About 50 g bark of ingoriao (Balanites roxburghii) is rubbed against hard stone mixed with a little water and applied topically (drop-wise) over the eyelids, two or three times a day for 8-10 days. Care should be taken that iris of the eye is not disturbed. 4. Prolapse of womb: Dough prepared from 1 kg fine flour of adad (Vigna radiata) is fed in early morning for 10 days. This is believed to solve the problem completely. 5. Arthritis: Roots of shatavari [Asparagus spp.) are cut into small pieces and fed once a day for 3-4 days to relieve the animal from arthritis. Keywords: mahua, aristo, ingoriao, adad, shatavari, arthritis, womb Shri Devkaranbhai Rabari, Mahudi Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content 12 Fisheries Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3491 River management for fish production 3492 Feed management for rapid growth of fish The water from main river is diverted into small-sized channels, which are passed nearby the cattle shed so the daily wastes i.e. urine and dung gets is mixed with it before reaching the crop fields. During rainy season a large number of fish are diverted from river and accumulated in the micro- catchments, which are prepared for harvesting the fish. The waste product of cattle shed helps develop congenial micro-environment for the fish. About 40-45% households are following this age-old practice. Keywords: cattle shed, dung, urine, micro-catchment, fish Rotten cowdung (left for 2-3 days so that meanwhile some larvae develop in it), waste materials obtained after preparation of rice beer, rice husk, cut grass (Lersa hexandra), green stem of paddy and kambhong grass (grown on decayed matter) are spread in the ponds by tribals of Kakching Mayai Leikai (Manipur). All these materials are used singly but may be used in combination depending on the availability. Before application, small pieces of these materials are cut and spread on the water, after disturbing the water of the pond. Local fish growers consider that by applying these materials they obtain good harvest of fish.