 Lessons learnt from rinderpest eradication are invaluable for achieving the goal of PPR control and eradication. The important milestones on the road to eradication of rinderpest and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia are given in Table 3. Table 3. Milestone achievements of rinderpest and CBPP eradication post-independence Year Milestones 1954 National Rinderpest Eradication Programme (NREP) launched. 1967 Large scale production of tissue culture rinderpest vaccine. 1983 National task force on rinderpest constituted. 1987 Establishment of AICRP on ADMAS at Bengaluru for rinderpest sero-surveillance. 1992 National Project on Rinderpest Eradication (NPRE) launched. 2000 Development of FAO/OIE validated rinderpest competitive ELISA kit. 2003 Provisional freedom from CBPP. 2006 OIE recognized India free from rinderpest infection. 2007 India declared CBPP free by the OIE. 2011 FAO Gold Medal for outstanding contribution to global rinderpest eradication program. 2011 Global freedom from rinderpest. 2012 Global Rinderpest Eradication Memorial installed at IVRI, Mukteswar. 3.2. Eradication of contagious bovine pleuro-pneumonia Contagious bovine pleuropneumonia (CBPP) was an insidious pneumonic disease of cattle and water buffalo referred to as lung sickness. It was caused by Mycoplasma mycoides subsp. mycoides (M. mycoides). Clinically, CBPP was manifested by anorexia, fever, and respiratory symptoms such as dyspnoea, cough, and nasal discharges. Eradication of CBPP was linked with the NPRE activities. The objective of the scheme was to strengthen the Indian Agriculture after Independence 238 veterinary services to eradicate rinderpest and CBPP and to obtain freedom from rinderpest and CBPP following the pathway prescribed by OIE, Paris. The country was provisionally free from CBPP in October 2003. The eradication programme for CBPP was initiated in 8 districts of Assam and the dossier for CBPP eradication was submitted to OIE. India was declared CBPP free by the OIE in 2007. Now, it is important that the country’s freedom status against CBPP is maintained as per OIE requirements. The states and union territory governments are required to carry out physical surveillance up to the village level to maintain the freedom status of CBPP and to undertake surveillance of other animal diseases in the country on a routine basis. 3.3. Eradication of African horse sickness African horse sickness (AHS) is a serious fatal disease of horses, mules, and donkeys. It is caused by a virus of the Genus Orbivirus belonging to the family Reoviridae. The virus is spread by infected insects (biting midges) and causes fever, cardiac and respiratory (breathing) problems with sudden death in affected animals. In India, the first case was reported in Cavalry of Army in April 1960. From 1960 to 1963, 22,977 horses got affected and 20,822 died (90.6% mortality).