 Formulation of low cost feed: There is a need to develop cheaper balance ration using locally available alternate feed resources so the farmers can afford to buy the feed for feeding as a minimum supplement to the animals and birds. Development of organized marketing of Livestock and livestock products: Organized marketing of livestock and livestock products like milk, meat and eggs in Tripura remains relatively insignificant despite efforts in the past to develop and promote collective market mechanisms. It is very essential to develop market and marketing channel for selling of milk, meat, egg and their products. 565 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Establishment of food Processing units: Development of food processing units like milk processing unit, meat processing unit etc for preparation of different milk, meat and egg products. Development of cold storage infrastructure: Milk, meat, eggs and their products are highly perishable products. The shelf life of these products could be increased by using of these types of facilities. Development of value added livestock products: So many value added products like sweet curds, lassi, and whey from (milk), meat products like sausage, nuggets, chicken samosa, egg pickle etc could be prepared. So that in surplus amount these are used as properly and demand of these value products are more and could be sold at very higher price. Awareness programme for livestock farmers: Awareness programme should be organized on scientific dairy, pig, goat and poultry farming and their importance for farmers. Training of Livestock farmers: Training to the farmers is required for the scientific management of the dairy, pig, goat and poultry farming. It will help in increasing production/ productivity of animals and reducing the animal diseases. Human resource development- There is a need to update the knowledge and skills of the staff through exposure and providing opportunity to gain experience in practical aspects related to livestock farming. Improve information dissemination mechanisms to reach wider population- Media can be effectively used to communicate information, gather ideas and issues that may help research community to initiate research. Besides traditional communication mechanisms like radio, TV, newspapers, etc., schools can be used for dissemination of essential messages that can bring transformation in different livestock farming. Invest and promote research- It is time to take critical look and find ways on investing resources in research by creating adequate support structures that will stimulate research environment. Animal husbandry department should explore ways to strengthen research division and promote farmers participatory research to solve location specific problems and evolve new technologies. Formulation of urea molasses block: Urea molasses block is could be important source of livestock feeding.