 The break-even point of the machine is 94.29 h/annum, with a payback period of 0.67 years. Cost analysis of manual and mechanical methods of onion harvesting The cost and input energy requirement of tractor-operated onion digger with a topping unit were calculated and compared with conventional manual method. The cost of operation of onion digger with topping unit was calculated using a straight line method based on the initial cost of the machine, `27500, with a salvage value of 10% of the initial cost. The life and annual use of the machine were assumed as 10 years and 250 hours respectively. Then, fixed cost (depreciation, interest, insurance and taxes) and variable cost (repair and maintenance, fuel consumption, oil and operator wages) were calculated and combining them the total operating cost was calculated as `291.77/h. Then, the total operating cost (including the machine’s field capacity) was found as `1716.29/ha. In traditional manual methods of harvesting, in a plot, only manual labour was involved for harvesting, topping, and collection of onion and it was found as `4000/ha. The saving in cost of operation with onion digger with a topping unit is 57.09% over the traditional method. Considering 25% overhead charges and profit in the machine’s operation cost, the machine’s break- even point and payback period were calculated and found as 16.03 ha per annum, a 0.67 year payback period respectively. Input energy requirement in manual and mechanical methods of onion harvesting Two farms were selected; one group was made on which only manual energy was used. The second group was made on which mechanical-cum-manual methods of energy were used. In case of the manual method, only manual labour was assigned; in case of the mechanical method of onion harvesting (the developed machine, i.e. onion digger with the topping unit) was used, which will perform all combined operations (topping, digging, soil separation and windrowing in a single pass), after machine operation in mechanical method manual labour was assigned for only collection of onions. Based on the above two practices, the time consumed in each method was recorded and converted into energy using standard energy equivalents. The result of the study showed that the average total input energy in manual and mechanical methods of onion harvesting are 1381.37 and 1022.07 MJ/ha, respectively. In the manual method of onion harvesting, the total energy input was direct renewable energy. The total average nonrenewable energy input in mechanical method of onion harvesting was 935.37 MJ/ha, which accounts for the highest proportion of total energy input in mechanical onion harvesting, reaching 91.51%, with energy input from diesel energy alone, 84.27% contribution followed by 7.22% machinery energy of the total input energy requirement. In the mechanical method of onion harvesting, the total average renewable method was 85.51 MJ/ha.