 Genetic characterization of H6N2 avian influenza virus: An H6N2 avian influenza virus isolated from healthy ducks in live bird markets of Asom in 2015, was characterized by complete genome sequencing. Haemagglutinin (HA) gene analysis revealed it to be a low pathogenic avian influenza virus and closely grouped with H6N2 virus isolated from a wild bird in China, whereas the Kerala H6N2 virus isolated in 2014 displayed close relationship with H6N6 virus isolated from duck in Japan in 2014 and formed a separate lineage within Eurasian region. As H6 virus has contributed genome segments for the emergence of avian influenza viruses with public health significance, surveillance and complete genome sequencing of emerging strains will help in the control of avian influenza. Pathology of reassortant highly pathogenic avian influenza H5N1 virus: The pathogenicity of H9N2- PB2 reassortant H5N1 virus was studied in BALB/ c mice and compared with non-reassortant H5N1 virus at third, seventh and eighth dpi. Both viruses caused severe congestion, oedema, haemorrhage and consolidation in lungs of mice as time elapsed, the lesions being more pronounced in non-reassortant group. Microscopically, lungs showed severe congestion, haemorrhage, thrombus, fibrinous exudate in perivascular area, interstitial septal thickening, bronchiolitis and alveolitis leading to severe pneumonic changes, lesions being more severe in non-reassortant virus infected group. Viral antigen and RNA were detected by immunohistochemistry and RT-qPCR, respectively, in the nasal mucosa, lungs, trachea and brain at all the three intervals in both the groups. In reassortant virus infected mice, proinflammatory cytokines IL-1, IL-6 and KC were upregulated in the brain and lungs and more innate sensors, viz. TLR-3 and TLR-7 mRNA were also expressed during infection. In non-reassortant H5N1 virus infected mice, cytokine responses were less pronounced than reassortant H5N1 virus infected mice. In conclusion, the H9N2-PB2 reassortant H5N1 virus caused milder lesions in mice and the innate immunity might have played a major role in its low pathogenicity. Commercialized drug formulations The drug formulations, viz. Diarrionex-HS, Herbal anti-bacterial anti-diarrhoeal powder for management of diarrhoea in animals; HEALEX-FR, an ointment/ gel for external injuries, septic and maggot wounds management in animals; G Min Forte, Areamix– area specific mineral mixture for Uttar Pradesh for management of mineral deficiency and optimizing production in animals, were commercialized. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 82 SUCCESS STORY Wildlife healthcare and management The National Referral Centre on Wildlife Healthcare at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar, was approached for diagnostic investigations in different zoos, national parks and forest departments.