 For the first time, several indigenous expression vectors were constructed. The inclusion of Internal Ribosomal Entry Site (IRES) element in between fish GH cDNA and reporter gene Enhanced Green Fluorescent Protein (EGFP) facilitates the cap-independent translation of the EGFP, and overcomes the hurdle of lack of biological activity of the fusion protein. In rohu, the gene transfer was carried out by electroporation of sperm cells with the vector (prGH- IRES2-EGFP), which was followed by normal fertilization of the eggs. In putative transgenic rohu, growth acceleration of upto 6-7 times more than their siblings was observed. In the catfish, gene transfer was carried out by electroporation of the eggs with the vector pβa-cGH. Observation on the sperm of Heteropneustes fossilis, preserved (immediately following death) at -20°C for 140 days, showed that the sperm were still viable, as indicated by motility; the motility lasted for a period of 240 minutes at 28°C. Interestingly, sperm from the restored (at 4°C for 3 days) testes also showed slow motility, which could be enhanced using 1.5% Na2SO3 or 0.56% KCl or 0.5% NaCl. In sequential hermaphrodites like the sea bass and grouper, natural sex reversal is a prolonged process (2 or 3 years) and occurs in fishes of 7-10 years of age, making it difficult to undertake short-term laboratory studies to understand the process of sex differentiation. Macropodus opercularis, a fresh water fish, is unique in that it is known to complete density-dependent sex reversal in less than 30 days. ● Prof. Renu Khanna Chopra studies on antioxidant enzymes in the flag leaf of wheat during grain development at IARI showed that activities of super oxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase (CAT) declined 21 days after anthesis. The major Cu/Zn isoforms (cytosolic) of SOD declined in activity, whereas low abundance mitochondrial MnSOD isoforms increased in their activity. Senescence induced new isoforms of catalse in the peroxisomes and showed decline in the activity of the major isoform only in the crude fractions at later stages. The presence of FeSOD was found in the mitochondria for the first time in the leaves of a senescing wheat plant. ● Prof. D C Uprety studied effect of elevated CO2 in the leaf anatomy of Brassica juncea at IARI, demonstrated that the changes in leaf ultra structures reflected an optimization strategy due to high CO2 that allows the loading of chloroplast with excessive oval starch grains to meet the adverse effect of drought on these components. Also, in the case of rice varieties there was a significant variability in the responses to elevated CO2. The response of rice variety Basmati-1 was significantly better than that of Pusa-677 for photosynthesis, growth and productivity. ● A study on the identification and quantification of phosphatase hydrolysable organic P sources for plant nutrition and refinement of a non-destructive technique for phosphatase estimation was conducted at CAZRI by Prof.