 Then oversupply and shortage of the agricultural product are quite popular in the agricultural product market, which reduce the profit of the supply chain and hurt the enthusiasms of the supply chain members. How to reduce the effects of the fluctuations and share the risks facing the supply chain members is an important topic in the supply chain management. Coordinating supply chain has been a major issue in supply chain management research. Supply chain contracts are contractual agreements governing the pricing and exchange of goods or services between independent members in a supply chain. Properly designed supply contracts are an effective means to share the demand and supply risk and better coordinate the decentralized supply chain. It is widely recognized that the supplier and retailer can both benefit from coordination and thereby improve the overall performance of the supply chain as a whole. Many well-known contract forms such as buy-back, revenue-sharing, quantity flexibility, sales rebate, two-part tariff, and quantity discount have shown to coordinate the supply chain. To understand the roadmap and importance of supply chain management in Agriculture sector, the study carried with major 5 sections. Section I discussed about supply chain management, section II on agriculture supply chain management, section III on Agrifood supply chain management, section IV about Agriculture marketing in India and section V deals with market place for agriculture products discusses the role of APMC, contract farming, private sector initiatives and information services. Agri -food Supply Chain Management While agriculture sector in India contributes one fourth of country’s GDP and provides employment to approximately two thirds of the population, today the Food Processing Industry alone accounts for 6% of the GDP. The quantity of processed food produced in the country is under 1.6% while in countries such as Thailand, Malaysia and Brazil it is 65-75%. The agri supply chains in India and their management are now evolving to respond tothe new marketing realities thrown by the wave of globalisation and other internal changes like rise in the level of disposable income of consumers, change in the food basket of the consumers towards high value products like fruits, vegetables and animal protein. The new challenges of the agricultural economy of the country have now spurred the government agencies to go in for different legal reforms for enabling and inviting private investment in agricultural marketing infrastructure, removing different entry barriers to promote coordinated supply chain and traceability. With liberalization of trade in the post-WTO regime, India has the opportunity to export agricultural and food products to the world. Over the last decade food processing has grown at a rate of 7.1% p.a. [23] www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  The food supply chain in India is highly fragmented.