 Goal 13 Climate Action: Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Energy has played a key enabling role in achieving food security and better nutrition. Energy prices influence food prices. Food systems, which currently consume 30 % of the world’s energy, will gradually need to de couple from fossil fuel dependence to deliver more food with less and cleaner energy. To ensure affordable, reliable and sustainable energy, partner AUs under the CAAST component of NAHEP has developed solar operated irrigation system. This innovation promotes the conservation Agriculture has a major role to play in responding to climate change. While temperature rises pose a real threat to global food production, investments in 28 of energy and supports achievement under the SDG indicator 7.2, ‘Increase substantially the share of renewable energy in the global energy mix of SDGs’. The Solar operated irrigation system installed at AU is currently working on the university farm for a demonstration to the farmers and industry stakeholders. The technology is currently being used in high-value crops with zero use of electricity and ensuring high water use efficiency (WUE). Goal 5 Gender Equality: Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls NAHEP suitably addresses the gender nuances of the project through the effective implementation of ‘Social Safeguard measures’. These measures ensure timely sensitization and capacity-building programs for project stakeholders on gender issues and preparation and implementation of Equity action plans (EAPs) for all partner AUs. EAP addresses gender and social inclusion issues, with special attention to the needs of female and SC/ST students. NAHEP, while incorporating the two World Bank Global Practices-Agriculture and Education ensures the AUs’ reform process benefits from innovations in both sectors across India and internationally. With the enhanced focus while corroborating NEP 2020 and strategic priority interventions at the Central and State levels, NAHEP will have profound and long-term impacts on agricultural higher education in India. As NAHEP is in its ongoing implementation phase, it is envisaged that the project would further evolve and newer outcomes would emanate and contributemore towards meeting the additional SDG goals as well as enhance contribution to the current SDGs. 1Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi; 2Deputy Director General (Agricultural Education) and National Director, NAHEP (ICAR); and 3National Coordinator (M&E), NAHEP (ICAR), Email: dg.icar@nic.in, ddg.edu@icar.gov.in Globally, Gender equality and women’s empowerment have advanced in recent decades. Therefore, girls' access to education and, in turn, their contribution to society's development have been well received. The same has also been taken into consideration in designing and implementing NAHEP.