 Although these figures are very low as compared to export of grapes and mango but slowly these are making space in our fruit export. Passion fruit is a exotic fruit in India but grown in sizable area. In the year 2020-2021 (Apr-Nov), India has exported Passion fruit worth of 2.3 USD million. The total volume of export in 2020-2021 (Apr-Nov) was around 2293890. New World trade regime increase the import of several exotic fruits such as rambutan, avocado and dragon fruits to fulfil domestic demand. There is steep increase in the popularity of these fruits and import has also increased. Recent data has suggested that India imports 1000 tons of avocados annually, The area and cultivation of avocado, dragon fruit has taken a quantum leap in last decade. The increase in domestic production will be helpful in fulfilling the domestic demands and import substitution import. Most of the underutilized fruits are cultivated by small and marginal farmers and considerable quantity of these fruits are collected by forest dwellers. The increased popularity of these fruits may provide income and employment and act as a livelihood security to these communities. P C Tripathi ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru January–February 2021 3 Pradeep Kumar Vishwakarma*, Nandkishor M Kanade, Dharmpal Singh and Ashish Kaushal Fig: A fruit for health Fig is grown in many parts of the world with moderate climate. Figs are eaten dry and fresh both, as fresh figs are highly perishable, so fresh figs are consumed only in nearer market but dry figs are exported for long distance markets. Fresh and dry both fruits are rich in fibre; potassium, calcium, and iron. Fresh figs are highly sensitive to physical damage, and susceptible to disease and infections. Preharvest and postharvest conditions are very important to improve fruit quality and postharvest life. Due to its nutritional quality, fresh fruit breeders are taking it as a challenge for development of new improved varieties for long shelf life of fresh fruits. F ig is botanically called Ficus carica (synonyms – forbidden fruit), it comes under family Moraceae, originated in the southern parts of Arabian Peninsula, Italy and USSR and its cultivation spread through Asia minor and into all countries of the Mediterranean region. It has 26 chromosomes and inflorescence hypanthodium with terminal bearing habit on current season growth. Fruit is tasty and sweet with total soluble solids 17 °Brix with good processing quality for export use as a dry fruit. Fig is one of the oldest fruit crops, morphologically it is called as “syconium” which is a vegetative fleshy tissue, with tiny true fruits enclosed inside. Fig is a gynodioecious species and some female types need pollination, while others set fruits parthenocarpically. Pollination is mostly performed by a wasp (Blastophaga psence). Fig is grown as a subtropical and temperate crop. It is one of the most salt and drought tolerant fruit tree.