 The project was implemented through establishment of several training centres for cottage industries, practicing communal harmony, education against taboos associated with caste and untouchability, and encouraging women’s education. For the betterment of people, Gandhi ji formulated an 18-point programme, which included promotion of village industries apart from education. 4. Influence of Gandhian philosophy on the post-independence efforts Organised extension services in India began with the initiation of Community Development Programme in 1952 based on the experiences gained through the Etawah pilot project experiment. The programme aimed at socio-economic transformation of rural people. In 1960, the government launched the Intensive Agricultural District Programme (IADP) initially in seven districts. In the third Five-Year Plan, Intensive Agricultural Area Programme (IAAP) was started covering 20 to 25 per cent of the cultivated area in the country (Randhawa 1982). High Yielding Varieties Program (HYVP) was launched in 1966-67 to enhance foodgrains production. 5. Frontline Extension Programmes of ICAR Frontline extension entails a higher level of interaction by the scientists or faculties of the research and educational institution. It is presumed that the technology generator directly or through the domain expert scientist can demonstrate the technology much more efficiently in a farmer participatory mode. HYVP coincided with National Demonstration project launched in 1964 by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) and widespread demonstrations of high yielding varieties led to enhanced adoption resulting in the ‘Green Revolution’. Later, ICAR started Operational Research and Lab-to-Land Projects. The Operational Research Project (ORP) initiated in 1974-75, aimed at dissemination of proven technologies among the farmers covering a cluster of villages, and analysing constraints (technological, extension or administrative) in the rapid spread of improved technical knowledge (Singh and Burman 2020). 161 5.1. Lab-to-Land Program (LLP) The Lab-to-Land Program was launched in its golden jubilee year by ICAR in 1979 for transfer of viable technologies from laboratories to the farmers’ fields. Under this program, 50,000 small and marginal farm households and landless agricultural labourers were adopted for their economic upliftment by the research institutes and agricultural universities. The activities under Lab-to-Land project included creation of a farm plan, training, demonstration, and field days. The programme also served as a feedback mechanism to the scientists and extension functionaries. The programme aimed at assisting selected farm families to develop individual farm plan for improving their whole farming system. The effort of the participating institutes in transfer of technology was expected to be accelerated and intensified through this programme without creating any additional infrastructure (Singh et al. 2006).