 The details of the projects are as below: Underground Taming of Flood for Irrigation: The UTFI project will continue to monitor and analyze the physical impact and quality of water for evidence based results. The project also proposes to communicate with potential strategic partners and liaise with administration/ministers to include UTFI in ongoing schemes/programs. The scaling-up activities will also be taken to cover the wider geographical areas under Ganges. The project will evaluate technical, social, economic and environmental performance of UTFI as a basis for recommendations and replication at regional scale. The project partners include CSSRI Research Centre, Lucknow, and National Institute of Hydrology (NIH), Roorkee is also proposed to be involved in the proposed scaling up project of UTFI. IBFI and post-disaster management to promote agriculture resilience: About 73% of the Bihar’s area and 76% of the population in North Bihar is at risk of recurrent flooding. There is a large scope for upscaling IBFI from pilot to large-scale implementation to provide coping mechanism for smallholder farmers in the state. Hence, research project has been developed under the ICAR-IWMI collaboration aiming at decreasing the climatic risk in agriculture including post flood management. The key NARES partners in the project include ICAR-IIWM, Bhubaneswar, ICAR-RCER, Patna and RAU, Pusa. The proposed collaborative research effort focuses on combining multiple approaches in deriving flood parameters and crop loss modules to create hybrid methodology for designing the insurance index for the proposed pilot villages in Bihar. Drought Monitoring, Planning and Management: IWMI and ICAR agreed to collaborate and strengthen research activities on drought monitoring technologies / systems, field/in-situ validation, enhancing knowledge platforms and executing research programs of mutual interest in drought monitoring, planning and management beneficial for the India’s food security. IWMI in collaboration with other international partners developed an operational state-of-the-art drought monitoring system for South Asia (SADMS) to plan and reduce drought risk faced by millions of smallholder farmers by providing long term, spatially rich datasets on historical and ongoing drought for stakeholders involved in planning. Through this collaboration, IWMI & ICAR will strengthen research, development and improvement of currently operational SADMS. The NARES partners include ICAR-CRIDA and selected centres of AICRP Dryland Agriculture. The collaboration will ensure rigorous evaluation of the SADMS and long term sustainability of the product.