 Analysis of differentially expressed transcripts (DETs) revealed that, 486 cocoa water-deficit stress responsive transcripts are specific to the genotype VTL C15, whereas 505 water-deficit stress responsive transcripts are found in cocoa genotype VTL C22. ❑ Climate Resilient Agriculture icar annual report 2022-23 147 13. Human Resource Development India, with 74 Agricultural Universities comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed Universities (DUs) and Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) is one of the largest agricultural research, education and extension systems globally. The uniformity, assessment and maintenance of standards and quality of higher agricultural education through institutional mechanism has been put in place in Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for human resource development and quality reforms. The Council has been providing support for strengthening, development and quality assurance of higher agricultural education and plays a leadership role towards building and nurturing future ready agri-graduates and skilled human resources, to meet the challenges of maintaining productivity, production and nutritive value in a sustainable way. The Division through the implementation of scheme- Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India, assists the AUs to plan, undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country. The Council through its Agricultural Education Division helps maintain quality assurance across agricultural universities (AUs), through strengthening, modernization, periodic upgradation of course curricula and through rigorous accreditation process. The scheme helps in promoting holistic higher agricultural education by blending knowledge and skill through Experiential Learning Models, thereby promoting entrepreneurial capabilities of students. The effective functioning of National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) is because of close association with education and extension leading to contribution towards the rapid growth of agriculture in the country. The education and skills of agricultural people are significant factors in enhancing every aspect of agricultural performance. Quality assurance Accreditation of Agricultural Universities: A total of 34 new applications for accreditation of degree programmes, colleges and Agricultural Universities were received in the year 2022. Twenty-five Agricultural Universities, including backlog of previous year, were granted accreditation, whereas two agricultural universities were not approved for accreditation. Further, based on request, four colleges/programmes belonging to state Agricultural Universities/ General Universities were granted accreditation, separately, in addition to the Agricultural Universities. Among the private universities/colleges, 23 universities were granted accreditation, whereas, about 10 universities could not qualify.