 Singh Secretary Indian Agricultural Universities Association, NASC, New Delhi – 110012 

 Potato Cultivation in Non-traditional Areas of Rajasthan With the ever-increasing population pressure and the need to ensure food security, it is imperative to find suitable alternative crops for augmenting farm productivity in non-traditional areas of Thar Desert of Rajasthan. For the first time, potato cultivars like Kufri Chipsona-4 and Kufri Frysona (for processing) and Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Garima and Kufri Surya were assessed for their production potential under drip and microsprinkler system of irrigation in the hot arid region of north-western Rajasthan. After experimentation for three consecutive years (2015-16, 2016-17 and 2017-18), it was found that these cultivars are agronomically most efficient in resource poor conditions and had given high yield, better quality tubers and good returns. This will increase the demand and will further motivate the farmers to grow potatoes in this region. It is therefore necessary to educate the farmers on proper skill development coupled with field demonstrations on good agricultural practices for potato cultivation in the hot arid region of Rajasthan. P L Saroj1*, M K Jatav2 and S K Chakrabarti3 I N India potato plays a crucial role in addressing the threat of hunger and malnutrition particularly in rural areas. India is the second largest potato producer in the world (45.3 million tonnes) after China (89.0 million tonnes). The demand for potato has considerably increased during recent past due to the rapid growth of processing industries. Moreover, 80% of potato is still grown in the Indo-Gangetic Plains during the rabi season with more than half of the production being concentrated Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal. The Plateau region only accounts for 7% of the area and 4% of the production. However, India will require 125 million metric tonnes of potato from 3.6 million hectare area by the end of 2050. Thus, to achieve this massive target, the country needs to explore non-traditional areas for potatoes. Potato in arid region Potato is not a new crop for Rajasthan but mostly Prospects confined to the areas with better soil and good rainfall conditions like Kota, Dholpur, Bharatpur, Sirohi, Jhalawar and Sri Ganganagar districts. However, 12 district of north-western Rajasthan (Barmer, Bikaner, Churu, Sri Ganganagar, Hanumangarh, Jaisalmer, Jalore, Jhunjhunu, Jodhpur, Nagaur, Pali and Sikar) accounts for 63.4% area of the hot arid realm of the country, where negligible area is under potato cultivation. On the other hand, potato produced in North India, when transported to western Rajasthan is subjected to quality deterioration. In this context, augmentation of the growing demand for potato through region-specific supply chain management seems to be the better alternative.