 Drying is mainly done to eradicate/remove the excess moisture present in the product by tray drier of different capacity. Rotating tray driers are also used for drying value added products of vermicelli and pasta. Steamer is used for gelatinization of starch that is present in the millets to improve the digestible nature of the grain through amylase and amylopectin content determination. Color sorters are used for removing unwanted chaff, ill-filled and impure grain from good grain. Metal detectors are used to detect metal parts or staple pin in the packed value added products. problem. Moreover, the anti-nutrients such as tannins and phytic acid are removed by removing the testa. The wear and tear of the machinery can be drastically reduced by removing the outer testa. The polishing is done to remove the bran that is present outside the grain that contains oil content and to remove the germ of the grain that also contains oil content. This presence of oil in the outer layers of the grain causes rancidity that reduces the shelf life of the millets. Free fatty acids present in the grain can be estimated to know the shelf life of the grain. Microbial counts are estimated using laminar flow chamber. Environment stability chambers are used to determine the accelerated shelf life of the stored millets for commercial prospects. For enriched nutrients, sprouted nature of the millets is preferred. Water activity meters are used for determination of water activity in the prepared value added products to determine the storage stability. Ball milling is used to reduce size of the flour obtained for making different value added products like vermicelli, pasta, ready to eat kurkurae, flaked breakfast cereals, etc. Tray driers and vacuum driers are used for drying of value added products such as vermicelli and pasta. Primary processing is defined as the processing to clean the grains from un-wanted debris and farm level impurities, then the grains are graded for commercial usage and de-hulling is done to remove the outer husk called as milling. Cleaning and grading use different types of sieves and the perforation in the sieve varies in shapes of square, rectangle and oblong depending upon the shape of the millet that is to be cleaned and graded. The disadvantages of using these type of machineries are such that the initial investments are high, consume more power, and maintenance of machine is difficult in remote villages where electricity is not available. Polishing is mainly done to improve the appearance of grains for increasing the commercial value and attractiveness of the packaged product. Infrared moisture meters are used to estimate the moisture in the millet grains in a batch process. pH meters are used to measure the pH of the millet milk beverage by measuring the difference in electric potential using two electrodes. Total soluble solids are measured using drying method of tray drier.