 It can help achieve several UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), including those on poverty (SDG 1), hunger (SDG 2), inequality (SDG 10), responsible consumption and production (SDG 12), climate change (SDG 13), and ecosystem health (SDG 14 and 15), as well as local and national development and environmental goals. It is a farming approach that balances the long- term needs of the environment, society and economy while supplying enough food, fibre and other agricultural products for a growing population and helps in maintaining agricultural production within economic, environmental and social boundaries. Sustainable agriculture integrates the environment, society and economics into a holistic framework. Environmental management and resource conservation enhance ecological balance and ecosystem health. These strategies ensure farmers have productive Indian Farming 73 (06): 43-47; June 2023 Sustainable agriculture and supported SDGs Sustainable agriculture SDG 1 SDG 2 SDG 10 SDG 12 SDG 13 SDG 14 & SDG 15 Indian Farming 44 June 2023 resources, making agricultural systems economically viable. Social equity and fairness principles, however, promote inclusive participation, gender equality, and human rights in agriculture, ensuring a more equitable distribution of resources and opportunities. This social dimension helps farming communities from across the groups to adjust to the environmental and economic challenges. In this process, integrating traditional and modern knowledge, collaborating, and sharing knowledge boosts innovation, capacity building, and sustainable farming with environment security. Five key principles for guiding the strategic development of new approaches and the transition to sustainability, according to Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations are: (i) Sustainable agriculture requires resource efficiency improvements; (ii) It involves direct action to conserve, protect, and enhance natural resources; (iii) Agriculture that doesn’t safeguard and develop rural livelihoods and social well- being is unsustainable; (iv) It must strengthen people, communities, and ecosystems, notably against climate change and market instability; and (iv) Good governance sustains natural and human systems. In this context, knowledge systems and innovations drive the adoption of sustainable agriculture methods, allowing farmers to maximize productivity while reducing environmental damage. Knowledge systems help farmers, researchers, and other stakeholders improve sustainable agriculture by providing crucial insights, guidance, and tools. Knowledge systems from indigenous methods to modern scientific research help us understand and implement sustainable agriculture. This knowledge synthesis helps in learning the intricate relationships between natural systems, human activities, and agricultural production. It also helps farmers find new solutions to soil degradation, water scarcity, and pest management.