 Patho-epizootiology, treatment and control of mycotoxicosis, EUS, saprolegniasis and other fungal pathogens of fish and shellfish, diseases caused by trematodes, cestodes, nematodes, crustaceans, acanthocephalans, protozoans, algal blooms, microbial toxicity. Unit 3. Aquatic Environment and Fish Health Kinetics of microbial population in the aquatic environment, bio-films, microbial interactions. Water pollution-microbial changes induced by inorganic and organic pollutants, industrial effluents, domestic sewage and their effects on fish and shellfish. Biological pollution-algal blooms and their effect on fish production, biological and chemical control of algal bloom. Metals as pollutants- accumulation of mercury, cadmium, lead, etc. in fishes. Unit 4. Disease Diagnosis Principles of disease diagnosis, conventional and rapid diagnostic methods, bacterial, viral, fungal, parasitic, non-infectious diseases of fish and shellfish. Clinical pathology and diagnosis of disease. Clinical pathology and diagnosis of disease. Clinical laboratory examination of various biomaterials from fish and shellfish, normal picture of blood, serum enzymology, disorders and their interpretations , examination of skin scrapings, gill, internal organs, other tissues, various immunological, serological and molecular diagnosis using PCR, PTPCR, and real time PCR and the principles involved in ELISA. Primer designing for probes. Unit 5. Defence Systems and Tumors Immune systems in fish and shellfish. Innate and acquired immunity, non-specific immunity, Antibody and cell mediated immunity in fish, immunity in shellfish, immune complex, memory function and immunological tolerance. Structure, types of antibodies, antigen-antibody reaction, phagocyte systems, TOLL link receptors, cell mediated immune response and its components, abnormalities in cell growth- aplasia, hypoplasia, atrophy, metaplasia dysplasia. Tumours and neoplasm growth, etiology, classification, morphology and behaviour, structure of tumour cell, tumour immunology, tissue responses to tumours, pathological features of neoplasms. 105 Unit 6. Disease Prevention and Control Disease prophylaxis and therapeutics, use of chemicals, antibiotics, conventional vaccines, prebiotics and probiotics, biochemical applications in disease control, DNA and RNA vaccines, recombinant vaccines, use of RNA interference, SPF and SPR brood stock, certification, surveillance and reporting, biosecurity. Disease control through environmental management. 11.6 FISH GENETICS & BREEDING Unit 1. Principles of Fish Genetics and Breeding Mendel an inheritance, genetic variation, chromosome theory, genetic basis for sex determination and sex linked genes in fish, Gametogenesis, linkage and crossing over, DNA as a genetic material, gene code and protein synthesis, DNA replication, DNA and plasmid isolation, chromosome manipulation, ploidy induction, sex reversal, gynogenesis, natural and induced. Unit 2.