 Transparent polyethene and 40 mesh insect- proof nylon-net sheet (3 m wide and 25 m length) are used to cover the coat-type protective structure with respect to winter and summer disease-free seedling production under hot arid climate. Sowing technique: Line sowing is best for obtaining high-quality seedlings. Lines are made at 8-10 cm apart and perpendicular to the length of bed. First of all, 2-4 cm deep lines are made by use of pencil-thickness twig or wire and single seed sowing is done at 1-2 cm distances. Seed should be treated with fungicide and first watering is done with the use of rose-cane. With a protective nursery scheme, a seed rate of 150-175 g for chilli, 100-120 g for brinjal and 80-100 g for tomato is found optimum for the 50 m2 sown area of two beds (25 m length and 1 m width) and to raise 25,000 to 30,000 seedlings as needed for a hectare crop planting. Irrigation and inter-culture: After sowing and covering the coat-type structures, seed beds are drip irrigated through 16 mm lateral pipe-lines as laid down in a pair mode for the nursery. To maintain proper soil moisture and uniform water distribution through emitters, drip system is operated for 1.0–1.5 hours on an alternate day concerning the age of seedlings and weather of the season. The covering material of coat-type structures should be opened once a week only from the east-side for monitoring and two inter-culture operations, and hoeing is done at 12-15 days intervals. Hardening: Hardening is a very important nursery practice and it should be done 5-7 days before transplanting. It is a physiological treatment given to young seedlings grown under protection to make their tissues firm enough to withstand unfavourable weather situations like low and high temperatures and dry winds. Here, nursery seedlings are exposed to sunlight for 5-7 days by removing covering material in a phased manner from the coat-type structures. In addition, one prophylactic insecticidal spray is given and some stress is created by withholding irrigation before uprooting and transplanting. Plant protection measures: To obtain healthy and disease-free solanaceous crop seedlings, prophylactic and integrated measures are essentially needed in the nursery for managing damping-off, leaf-blight, leaf-curl, leaf-miner and borers. For damping-off, seed treatment with fungicide e.g., bavistin @ 2-3 g/kg and drenching of nursery beds is found beneficial. Leaf-miner can be managed by spraying indoxacarb 15.80 EC @ 0.5-0.8 ml/litre of water. Provision of virus complex-free seedlings is a primary requirement for a healthy crop harvest and now, this is practicable with a protective vegetable seedlings production scheme as developed at ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner. Leaf-curl and viral complex diseases are spread by white- fly, aphid, jassid, thrips and other sucking insect pests, and it begins from seedling stages and continues to the crop harvest.