 The h-index is a metric that aims to measure both the productivity and citation impact of the publications of a scientist or scholar. It is based on the set of the scientist’s most cited papers and the number of citations that they have received in other publications. Mangi Lal Jat, affiliated with the Climate Change, Agriculture, and Food Security (CCAFS) in New Delhi, emerges as the most prolific author, having published 22 articles focused on climate change in agriculture (Table 2). Following this comprehensive overview of the most productive authors in the field, Table 3 elucidates the major research focuses of these top authors. This table provides insights into the specific domains within climate change and agriculture that have been the primary focus of their academic contributions. The most productive authors were identified from the dataset based on their publication count. Table 2 displays the top 10 most productive authors, including the number of citations each has received and their Hirsch index (h-index). The h-index is determined by the number of papers (N) an author has published that have each been cited at least N times, thus reflecting both productivity and impact. Mangi Lal Jat, from the Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) in New Delhi, stands out as the most prolific author, having contributed 22 articles focused on CC in agriculture (Table 2). Following this comprehensive overview, Table 3 Fig. 3. Year-wise trend of CCRASAI research. Table 2 Ranking of top 10 most productive authors in climate change and agriculture research. Rank Author Articles TC h- index Institute 1 Mangi Lal Jat 22 330 9 Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security, New Delhi 2 Pramod K. Aggarwal 16 743 11 International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, New Delhi 3 Hanuman Sahay Jat 12 83 5 Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Haryana 4 Parbodh C. Sharma 12 96 5 Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Haryana 5 Dil Bahadur Rahut 10 152 5 International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, New Delhi 6 Tek B. Sapkota 9 231 7 International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center, New Delhi 7 P. K. Joshi 7 282 6 Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 8 Suhas Pralhad Wani 7 79 6 International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics, Patancheru 9 Firoz Ahmad 7 48 4 Vindhyan Ecology and Natural History Foundation, Uttar Pradesh 10 Bhawna Anand 7 41 3 Indian Council of Agricultural Research - National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 6 elucidates the major research focuses of these leading authors, offering insights into the specific domains within climate change and agriculture that have garnered their scholarly attention. 3.3. Top institution and state Fig. 4 depicts the research activity of Indian states during the last 26 years, based on the number of articles published.