 Primarily these receipts come from Dividends, Interest receipts, Spectrum charges, RTI application fee, purchase of forms/magazines by students and many other such payments by citizens/ corporate/other users. yy The online electronic payment in a completely secured IT environment, helps common users /citizen from the hassle of going to banks for making drafts and then to Government offices to deposit the instrument for availing the services. It also helps avoidable delays in the remittance of these instruments into Government account as well as eliminates undesirable practices in the delayed deposit of these instruments into bank accounts. yy NTRP facilitates instant payment in a transparent environment using online payment technologies such as Internet Banking, Credit/Debit Cards. yy NTR Portal has been functional in new Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers welfare since inception in FY 2019-20. yy Expenditure, Advance and Transfer (EAT)Module of PFMS: All eight (08) Autonomous Bodies of Ministry of Agriculture & Farmer Welfare have been on-boarded on Expenditure Advance Transfer (EAT) module of PFMS. yy Treasury Single Account (TSA) yy The Expenditure Management Commission (EMC) vide Para 125 of its September, 2015 report has recommended that in order to minimize the cost of Government borrowings and to enhance efficiency in fund flows to Autonomous Bodies, Government should gradually bring all Autonomous Bodies (ABs) under the Treasury Single Account (TSA)System. Under Department of Agricultural Research and Education, the TSA is implemented in the following: yy Indian Council of Agricultural Research(ICAR) yy Central Agriculture University, Imphal The details of the Budgetary Provision and Expenditure their against is reflected below: yy Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure Vide Office Memorandum F.No. 26(118)/EMC Cell/2016 dated 24.02.2022 has issued “Revised instructions on bringing Autonomous Bodies (ABs) under the Treasury Single Account (TSA) System”. yy Ministry of Finance, Department of Expenditure Vide Office Memorandum F.No. 26(118)/EMC Cell/2016 dated 20.10.2022 has issued “Amendment in revised guidelines for implementing Treasury Single Account (TSA) System in Autonomous Bodies (Abs)”, which states that “these guidelines shall be applicable to Autonomous Bodies (ABs) including Statutory Bodies and Central Public Sector Enterprises (CPSEs) receiving more than Rs. 100.00 crores in a F.Y. as Grants-in-Aid”. yy This amendment will be effective from 1stApril, 2023. New Developments in the Ministry I. Enforcement of enhanced security layers in online payment process in Public Financial Management System (PFMS) TSA Figures as on 30-09-2022 ( . in Crore) Name of ABs Budget Estimate Releases %of Releases Central Agricultural University, Imphal 268 134 50% ICAR Headquarters 7872.89 3936.35 49.