 Land resource inventory of Bundelkhand region The Bundelkhand region, spanning across seven districts each of Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh, is known for its extreme water scarcity and degraded soils, where agriculture is primarily rainfed. The Bureau classified soils in the region based on their depth, texture, organic carbon and water-holding capacity with the help of a hybrid standard operating protocol employing both traditional survey and digital soil mapping. Soils of the region are predominantly sandy loam with poor moisture retention, making them susceptible to erosion. The soil property maps were designed to help local authorities and farmers in selecting appropriate land use practices. For instance, in soils with shallow depth and low water-holding capacity, Bureau recommended cultivating short- duration crops rather than water-intensive crops. Additionally, it guides farmers in adopting conservation practices like graded bunding and gully plugging to control soil erosion. The implementation of these measures based on Bureau’s recommendations is expected to efficiently manage land and improve crop productivity, thereby offsetting the vulnerability of rainfed farming systems to erratic rainfall. Further, various soil and water conservation measures including check dams, contour bunding and vegetative barriers were recommended which fit well into the watershed management programmes, and are intended at improved soil moisture conditions, reduced runoff, and reduction in soil erosion. Digital soil mapping in Vidarbha region, Maharashtra The Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, another predominantly rainfed area, has faced recurring agricultural crises due to erratic rainfall and declining soil fertility. NBSS&LUP, for the first time, has introduced digital soil mapping (DSM) techniques for identifying soil fertility and suitability for various crops in the region. DSM was used to map the nutrient status and physical properties of soils, providing Land resource inventory of Bundelkhand region for sustainable land-use planning (Source: NBSS&LUP, Publ No.184) Indian Farming 13 January 2025 critical insights for sustainable soil management. The soils of Vidarbha are generally deficient in nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, which limit crop yields. Based on soil information, the Bureau recommended integrated nutrient management (INM) practices integrating organic matter (such as farmyard manure and compost) with appropriate levels of chemical fertilizers. Soil fertility maps would enable the farmers in Amravati and Yavatmal districts to apply site-specific fertilizer doses for improved nutrient-use efficiency and reduced costs. As a result, rainfed cotton and soybean yields will increase significantly, contributing to the region’s economic stability.