 In high disease endemic region like India, role of recombination needs further investigation. The liquid phase blocking-ELISA, which is used to determine the protective antibody level following vaccination, revealed lesser than desired level of antibody titres against the four FMDV serotypes in majority of post-vaccinated sera samples tested. The virus repository maintained at the Project Directorate had by the end of the year, about 1,055 isolates comprising type O–684; type Asia 1–206; type A– 151; and type C–15. Animal Diseases Monitoring and Surveillance National sero-epidemiological survey revealed that overall incidence of brucellosis was 24.6% and IBR 23.3%. The milk based brucellosis kit was further field validated on 3,820 pooled milk samples at Ludhiana, Tirupati and Ahmedabad, and the overall incidence was found 14%. IBR continues to be major herd problem and semen production centers are concerned about this situation as the virus is excreted through semen. The IBR milk version of the ELISA kit was tested on 413 pooled milk samples at Ludhiana and Tirupati, and showed evidence of infection in 31.8 and 9.7% tested respectively. The recombinant rinderpest, C-ELISA kit was validated by IAEA, Vienna, after undertaking field performance trials in Kenya. The epidemiological study on leptospirosis has made 54 isolations making it 500 in the past five years. The present isolates originated from bovine, pigs and dogs. Using the MAb based typing kit 21 isolates were indentified as belonging to autumnalis, icerohaemorrhagiae, conicola, hebdomadis, grippotyphosa and hardjo serovars. The remaining needs to be identified. The warehousing of animal health information database through upgradation and integration of the India.AdmasEpitrak software, was accomplished. Its specific application in the Web based National Animal Disease Referral Exert System (NADRES) of PAD_ADMAS is in the final stage of launching. Using this data warehouse, top ten locations of epidemiological importance with respect to 22 endemic diseases would be identified along with their disease precipitating factors. Blood Protista A PCR for amplification of small sub-unit ribosomal RNA gene of Theileria annulata in lymphnode biopsy and blood of infected cattle was standardized. Infected blood showed intra-erythrocytic parasitaemia up to 0.00062%. Seroprevalence study by IFAT of bovine babesiosis, from cattle revealed 43.5% positivity. Slide enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (S-ELISA), revealed that 41 out of 48 samples from Orissa and 19 out of 47 from Uttar Pradesh, were positive for Babesia bigemina antibodies. Heparinized blood from cattle was subjected to PCR for detection of B. bigemina infection using specific primers. Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis of T. evansi isolates derived from buffalo, camel and horse was carried out using 12 random oligonucleotide primers, and informative primers (AP14, AP17, AP18, AP19, AP22 and AP23) were identified.