 Comparative analysis of culturable microbial population in healthy and HLB- New Insect-pests in Banana Fall armyworm, Spodoptera frugiperda, an alien invasive pest of maize, was found to feed on banana leaves and complete its lifecycle on banana. It was found on banana plants in the vicinity of maize fields in Trichy District, Tamil Nadu, and it was quite likely to have moved to banana from maize. Infestation of the Bondar’s nesting whitefly, Paraleyrodes bondari Peracchi (Hemiptera: Aleyrodidae), a recently reported exotic invasive pest in India, was recorded on banana from Karur and Tiruchirappalli districts of Tamil Nadu. Severe infestation of bagworm, Manathaal bipes (Moore) (Lepidoptera: Psychidae), was observed on cv. Karpuravalli and totally 108 germplasm accessions were found to be infested by this species. This is the first report of this pest on banana. It is known to be a serious pest on various palms including arecanut, coconut, and oil palm. Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 107 infected samples further showed higher abundance of microbial population in HLB-infected samples compared to those isolated from healthy samples. A novel citrus half-leaf method and in vitro assay evaluating two endophytes (B. pumilus and B. safensis) against CLas showed reduction in CLas copies in leaf material following 72 hours of treatment. As many as 48 microbial isolates identified and subjected to interaction studies for constructing PGPR-based consortium, consisting of 5 combinations being further examined for plant growth efficacy. Metagenomics analysis of endophytic microbial communities of healthy and HLB- infected Khasi mandarin revealed the structure and function and diversity of the microbiome. Total reads generated, for healthy and infected samples, 244693402 and 251827322, respectively with 90% of the reads having a Phred score over 30 (indicator of base quality in DNA sequencing). Taxonomic profiling reflected the reduction in alpha diversity in HLB-infected plants than healthy plants. or Tebuconazole 50 % + Trifloxystrobin 25% 75 WP (0.05%) (ICBR 1:6.71) @ 0.67 g/litre starting from the initiation of the disease at 15 days interval for effective and economical management of fig rust disease by the SK Nagar centre. Panicle blight in litchi: The disease incidence of panicle blight in different orchards varied from 17.43- 28.85% while most of the tree had disease severity (PDI) between 10.0-20.0%. The mean disease incidence of fruit blight on trees in farmers’ orchard in Muzaffarpur, Bihar varied from 8.4-12.4% (mean 9.8%) in cv. ‘Shahi’ and 10.2-16.7% (mean 12.6%) in cv. ‘China’ Leaf spot disease in litchi: Two different kinds of leaf spot disease were observed in nursery plants and bearing trees of litchi in orchard. The pathogens were identified as Corynespora litchii Matsush. and Pestalotiopsis versicolor Speg.