 It is estimated to occupy 38% of the total tuberose area in the country (2006-2016). 3.3.2. Floricultural exports The transformation of Indian floriculture from pushcart transportation to chartered flight transportation is phenomenal. During the year 2018-19, India exported floricultural products worth Rs. 571.41 crores (APEDA 2020). Floricultural exports from India comprises of fresh cut flowers (to Europe, Japan, Australia, Middle East and USA), loose flowers (for expatriate Indians in the Gulf), cut foliage (to Europe), dry flowers (to USA, Europe, Japan, Australia, Far East and Russia) and potted plants (limited to very few countries). A farmer in Karnataka reaping the benefits of tuberose variety, Arka Prajwal Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 129 Specifically, an improved packing technology for jasmine with thermocole packaging with gel ice and aluminum foil lining was developed, which has reduced the post-harvest losses from 30 to 10%, the shelf-life of flowers has increased up to 72 h and the flower colour has been retained for longer time. The technology played an important role in promoting the export of jasmine flowers to different markets. 3.4. Spices, plantation and tuber crops 3.4.1. Turmeric varieties with high curcurmin content Varieties possessing high levels of curcumin, viz., IISR Sudarshana (7.9%) IISR Prathibha (6.2%) and IISR Alleppey Supreme (6.0%) compared to earlier varieties Suvarana (4.0%) and Suguna (4.7%) have been developed providing incremental consumer value. 3.4.2. Improved varieties, agronomy and value-addition in plantation crops The coconut, arecanut and cocoa are important plantation crops of India, influencing the livelihoods of over 25 million people in the country. They also support the national agrarian economy, with an annual contribution of Rs. 14,200 crores to the national GDP and foreign exchange earnings of about Rs. 2,440 crores. ICAR-CPCRI is custodian to the world’s largest germplasm on coconut, arecanut and cocoa. ICAR-CPCRI hosts International Coconut Gene bank for South Asia (ICG-SA). Root (wilt) disease caused by phytoplasma is causing debilitating conditions in coconut in southern parts of Kerala. Tolerant varieties such as Kalpa Raksha, Kalpa Sree and Kalpa Raj as well as Kalpa Sankara hybrid could produce economic yield through integrated management practices. High-density multi-species cropping systems of coconut and arecanut with high-value intercrops are capable of producing 1.5 to 3-fold income from the farming. Coconut-based cropping system, using multi-species cropping of coconut with pepper, banana, nutmeg, pineapple, ginger, turmeric and elephant foot yam generated a net income of Rs. 3.7 lakhs ha-1, which is 150% higher than that of coconut monocrop (Rs. 1.4 lakhs). Arecanut-based cropping system with cocoa, banana and black pepper as component crops generated net returns as high as Rs. 8.8 lakhs ha-1, which is 132% higher than that of arecanut monocrop (Rs. 3.