 Salient achievements • Developed high yielding dual purpose low input colour chicken varieties namely, Vanaraja, Gramapriya, Srinidhi, Swetasree, Vanashree, Janapriya, Pratapdhan, Kamrupa, Jharsim, Narmadanidhi and Himsamridhi suitable for backyard poultry farming producing 130 to 180 eggs annually and attaining 1.5 kg body weight at 12 to 14 weeks of age • Developed high yielding meat purpose commercial colour chicken variety namely, Krishibro attaining 1.5 kg body weight at 5 weeks of age • Developed high yielding egg purpose commercial chicken varieties namely, Krishilayer and Athulya yielding more than 300 eggs annually • Developed a feed supplement, Oxycure (blend of trace minerals and osmolytes) for alleviating heat stress in chickens. • Three phytogenic feed additives were developed as alternatives to antibiotic growth promoters, which showed promising results in vivo in Krishibro chickens. • ALV detection protocol established and the incidence of ALV reduced to less than 1% at the farm 132 ICAR Institutes Profile 132 • Integrated farming model with backyard chicken, moringa and earthworms developed • Developed low cholesterol egg producing knock down chicken through RNAi approach where cholesterol content in eggs was reduced by 14.3%. • Single candidate gene-based marker assisted selection was employed in a broiler line on pilot scale, where around 30% improvement was achieved for body weight at 6 weeks of age. • Whole genome sequence of 10 native chicken breeds were explored and native chicken specific medium density 74K SNP chip is being developed for its use in genomic selection. • Cryopreservation of PGCs of native chicken breeds for ex situ conservation of chicken breeds • In the last seven years (2014-15 to 2020-21), ICAR-DPR supplied about 297.23 lakh chicks of improved chicken varieties to about 14.93 lakh rural families across the country. • ICAR-DPR has immensely contributed to growth of the poultry industry in the areas of poultry nutrition, health and capacity building, contributing a total of about Rs. 600 crores/ year. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stake- holders: • High yielding chicken varieties for both backyard (Vanaraja, Gramapriya, Srinidhi, Swetasree, Vanashree, Janapriya, Pratapdhan, Kamrupa, Jharsim, Narmadanidhi and Himsamridhi varieties of chicken) and intensive (Krishibro, Krishilayer and Athulya varieties of chicken) poultry farming. 133 Animal Sciences 133 ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute 1. Contact details a. Postal Address: ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly (UP) -243122 b. Name of the Director: Dr. Triveni Dutt c. Email address: director.ivri@icar.gov.in, directorivri@gmail.com Ph.: +91 0581-2300096(Off.); Fax No.: +91 0581-2303284. 2. Mandate and activities a. Basic and strategic research for improvement of animal health for enhanced productivity b.