 The difference in the direction of precipitation change projected by various models indicates that there is uncertainty in the rainfall pro­ jections. Some models (RCA4_CCCma, RegCM4_GFDL) project decreases in both southwest and northeast monsoon rains, implying negative ef­ fects on agricultural production. Temperature projections (Fig. 14) show that both maximum and minimum temperatures in the Bhavani basin area will rise. The pro­ jected increase in temperature would imply an increase in ET in the future, and the reduced rainfall in the growing season would imply a decrease in reservoir inflows. Both factors, when combined, will cause water stress during the crop growing season. 4.4. Vulnerability assessment Bottom-up vulnerability assessment entails testing the models for various future conditions. The change in mean rainfall, maximum and minimum temperature, and the change in climate variability, which is expressed as the coefficient of variation of precipitation (ratio of stan­ dard deviation to mean), were used to determine future conditions. To create multiple future climate conditions, the climate stressors of pre­ cipitation, temperature and climate variability were incremented at fixed intervals and daily time series for every increment in climate stressor was generated. The increase in precipitation projected by different models range from 2 to 85 % (Fig. 15). Only one RCM shows increase more than 80 %, hence precipitation increase varying from 0 to + 70 % was taken with an interval of 10 %. Similarly, for maximum temperature the projected increase is in the range of 0.8 ◦C to 3 ◦C and that for minimum temperature, it is in the range of 0.9 ◦C to 3.65 ◦C. Hence, temperature increments from 0 ◦C to +4 ◦C were considered, with increments of 1 ◦C (Fig. 16). The percentage increase in coefficient of variation reaches a maximum of 120 %, and the future climate con­ ditions were generated with CV increments from −25 % to +125 %, at 25 % intervals (Table 8). Accordingly, 168 combinations of changes in precipitation, temperature and climate variability were constructed as future scenarios. These climate scenarios were generated using Fig. 11. Observed and simulated yields by SWAT and AquaCrop models (1992–2014). A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 14 weathergen R package. 4.4.1. Response to climate stressors The stress response surface was developed by incrementing the climate stressors of aridity index and climate variability, as well as the response of the system to these stressors, in the form of changes in yield and crop water requirement. Yield is calculated as the average of the yield simulated by SWAT and AquaCrop models. Yield ratio is the ratio of this model simulated yield to the normal yield, which is the average of the actual yield of paddy during 1992–2014 (4 t/ha). For the stress test, the main irrigated paddy growing season i.e. August to November, was considered.