 Internet of Things (IoT) This technology minimizes labour-intensive tasks, reduces resource wastage, and ensures that crops are cultivated in optimal conditions. Internet of Things (IoT) enables interconnected devices to collect and transmit data across plantation fields. The automatic irrigation/ fertigation system installed in arecanut and coconut is being monitored by farmers sitting in house through smart mobile phones. In plantation crops, IoT is utilized as soil monitoring system to monitor soil pH levels, moisture regime, and temperature, which provide real- time insights for better crop management. IoT powered weather stations provide localized and accurate forecasts, which help farmers to make decisions about different operations like irrigation, harvesting and applying plant protection chemicals. IoT powered smart irrigation systems measure real-time soil moisture data and automate water application based on need which improves water-use efficiency and reduces the cost of production. Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML) AI and machine learning (ML) algorithms are used to analyze the vast amounts of data generated by the plantation crops using various gadgets, offering predictive insights for better decision-making. Some of the areas where AI and ML is used are Yield prediction, Disease and pest detection, Weather forecasting and risk management, and Harvesting stage of the crops. The crop models developed using AI and ML can predict crop yields based on historical data and current conditions about weather parameters, crop growth and practices adopted. These predictions help farmers in proper management of limited resources, crop planning and policy makers for marketing options and distribution of the produce as per the demand at different places. Using these technology, InfoCrop – coconut model is developed to simulate the growth, development and yield of coconut. Early detection of disease infection and pest infestation helps in efficient management of the problems. This reduces the cost of management and helps in getting quality crops. AI powered image recognition systems in combination with drone or satellite systems can detect early signs of disease and pest infestations. This helps in early intervention for management which minimizes crop loss and reduces the use of chemicals in agriculture. Weather forecasting and risk management is important for timely understanding the situations for adopting proper interventions. AI systems can analyze historical weather data and predict future climate conditions, viz. rainfall, temperature, humidity etc. This prepares farmers or policy makers for eventual problems like droughts, flood, forecasting the disease and pest events etc. This helps in sustainable production in plantation crops. MaxEnt model has been used to predict the future climate of the current cultivation area of coconut.