 2) were separated during excavations in 2017-18 from Trench YA1/92/73 at Locality B (Supplement 2 - F1) and Trench YA1/72/85 at Locality C (Supplement 2 - F2) at Vadnagar. Standard flotation techniques for archaeobotanical recovery followed (Pearsall, 2015), with buoyant carbonised and silic­ ified plant remains (grains/seeds/fruits) recovered through a 30 mesh (0.5 mm) geological sieve. Dried samples transported for analysis at Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences, Lucknow, India. A total of twenty-nine sediment samples from the basal layer (29) to the top of profile in Trench YA1/72/85 at locality C were taken for phytolith and isotope studies (Fig. 2). 3.2. Chronology Carbonised seeds and charcoal recovered through flotation were dated at Birbal Sahni Institute of Palaeosciences (BS), Lucknow, India, Direct AMS (D-AMS), USA, Physical Research Laboratory (AURIS), Gujarat, India and IsotoppechZrt.AMS 14C Lab (DeA), Hungary for 14C measurements (Table 1; Fig. 3). Conventional radiocarbon ages were calibrated in OxCal v4.3.2 (Bronk Ramsey, 2009) using the IntCal13 calibration curve (Reimer et al., 2013). Calibrated ranges were compared with the ceramic, numismatic and other artefact assemblages recovered at the site to define the cultural sequence. 3.3. Laboratory analyses Plant remains were examined under a Leica Z6AO stereoscope and sorted. The identification of carbonised grains/seeds was made using reference collection at BSIP, Lucknow, and published literature (Pokharia et al., 2011, 2017). Full absolute counts of plant taxa and ubiquity are presented in Supplement 1. Stable carbon isotope (δ13CSOM) ratios were determined on organic matter of sediments from cultural layers. Analyses were conducted using a Pyrocube Elementar elemental analyser and Precision Elementar EA- IRMS Isotope Ratio Mass spectrometer in continuous flow mode. For isotopic analysis, sediment samples were subjected to decalcification. Around 2 g of dried/homogenised sediment aliquots were treated with 10% hydrochloric acid (HCl) then dried overnight. Samples were sub­ sequently washed several times with deionised water to remove any excess chloride ion. Samples were again dried in an oven at ~60◦Celsius and re-powdered to obtain a homogenised sample. Data quality of measured C and δ13C values was checked using a suite of in-house (laboratory) and international IAEA standards. Accuracy and analyt­ ical precision of measured δ13C was better than 0.2‰. For the C component, analytical precision was found to be better than 3–5% (based on duplicate analysis). The isotopic data are reported using standard delta notations. C isotopic data were determined using the Vienna-PDB standard. Phytoliths were extracted following standard techniques adapted from Piperno (2006). Ten grams of dried sediment was treated with hydrochloric acid (HCl) to remove carbonates, followed by hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) to remove organic content.