 List of effectors/secondary metabolites and their role in pathogenesis Effector/secondary metabolites Chemical properties Role in pathogenesis α-1,3-glucan Polysaccharide Mask chitin of the fungal cell wall to escape identification by PRR of the host AG1IA_091612 Glycosyltransferase GT family 2 domain Attachment of fungal pathogen and cell wall degradation AG1IA_05310 Cytochrome C oxidase assembly protein CtaG/cox11 domain Cell death phenotype AG1IA_07795 Peptidase inhibitor I9 domain Programmed cell death RsPG3 and RsPG4 Polygalacturonase; Cell wall degrading enzymes (CWDs) Release of reducing sugar, induce host tissue necrosis Host specific toxins (RS toxin) Carbohydrate consisting mannose, glucose, N-acetyl glucosamine, N-acetyl galactosamine Act directly on living host protoplast and kill the cell of the plant Methyl-thio-propionic acid (MTPA) Secondary metabolite Mycelial production and promote disease progression Oxalic acid Secondary metabolite Inhibit synthesis of various phenolic substances and act synergistically with PGs, cause pH instability and cell wall degradation. Triggers programmed cell death AG1IA_04727 Polygalacturonase Role in pathogenesis Indian Farming 30 October 2023 Once the extracellular signal is perceived by the pathogen, various signal transduction pathway is activated to induce pathogenicity. Heteromeric G protein constituted of Gα, Gβ, and Gγ regulates the cAMP pathway, MAPK pathway, and calcium calcineurin pathway which are major players in pathogenesis. The fungus utilizes α-1,3-glucans to escape chitin-triggered immunity of the host plant. The application of omics to study pathogenesis indicated that the induction of genes encoding extracellular protease, ABC transporter, and transcription factors are notable during the establishment phase. Contrastingly, during the necrotrophic phase, CAZymes, sugar transporters, cellular metabolism, and protein degradation-related genes are prominently induced. Furthermore, identification of the virulence gene of R. solani remains unaccomplished as the genetic transformation technique of the fungi is not yet standardized. The Host’s perspective When a pathogen invades, penetrates, and colonizes the host plant, an arsenal of metabolic pathways and defence mechanisms are activated (Fig. 3) in the host to counteract the pathogen. Once the pattern recognition receptor identifies a foreign pattern (chitin) rather weak immune response PAMP triggered immunity (PTI) is initiated to invade the pathogen and restrict colonization. Further, direct or indirect interaction between resistance (R) proteins and avirulence (avr) effector induce a strong hypersensitive response known as effector triggered immunity (ETI). The involvement of jasmonic acid (JA), salicylic acid (SA) and ethylene mediated signal transduction pathways are also advocated to be involved in the resistance mechanism against R. solani in rice.