 Several climate smart agricultural technologies, helpful in mitigation of carbon emission are available, but there is a gap in upscaling and implementation at farmers’ field. It is because of availability of suitable machinery, cost effectiveness, yield loss, and lack of farmers’ capacity building. The involvement of local farmers, extension agents and research institutions are critical in technology dissemination and adaption at farmers’ field. In view of India focus on climate change, with emphasis on achieving net zero emission or carbon neutrality, recently, Government of India has initiated several policies changes and action projects. A single policy change for urea replacement with neem coated reduced carbon emission by 7.53 Mt CO2 eq. in two years from Indian agriculture. Carbon credit to the farmers from the climate smart technologies is a major concern for technological adoption. A strong inter- institutional, ministerial and social coordination is required for resources, implementation of carbon mitigation technologies, and carbon credit to farmers, to achieve the net zero emission and carbon credit from the agriculture. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ram.iari4874@gmail.com Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana This Yojana brings • Per Drop More Crop. • Inputs from MoWR and DOLR received. • Increase in agricultural production and productivity and enhance farm income. Indian Farming 53 June 2023 Climate smart agriculture in cereal systems of Indo-Gangetic plains H S Jat*, Madhu Choudhary and P C Sharma ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 In India, rice-wheat (RW) system has played a significant role in achieving food security of the nation but these achievements were accompanied by problems of resource degradation (soil, water, energy) in Indo-Gangetic plains. The current approaches of RW production are ecologically intrusive, economically and environmentally unsustainable; the problems which seems to be aggravated by the changing climate in the region. Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA)- based sustainable intensification of cereal systems may help in managing the natural resources in the region by improving the adaptive capacity of cereal systems to ensure food security while mitigating the environmental footprints. CSA-based system also improved soil health (SOC- 100% after 5 years with full residue recycling), proved more resilient to climatic risks like temperature stress, water stress and untimely rainfall compared to conventional system. CSA is in accordance with G20 agriculture working group agenda to address the major issues of sustainable development and climate change mitigation in the bread basket of the country. Keywords: Climate smart agriculture, Rice-wheat system, Sustainable agriculture T HE sustainability of rice-wheat (RW) system in western Indo-Gangetic plains (IGP) of India is crucial to meet out the nation’s food security.