 The male and female parents of the various hybrids, with different degrees of photo and thermo-sensitivities may react variably under different day length and temperatures at various locations or seasons. Therefore, several methods are employed to ensure synchrony. Some important measures for synchronization of flowering of male and female parents are: • The growth stages of male and female parents should be critically examined at 4 weeks stage or even later depending upon the length of their vegetative growth period. • The flower primordia and the apex of male and female plants be sampled randomly and observed critically by stripping the leaves of stem. The difference in the time of initiation and the size of the panicle bud would indicate the difference in their time to 50% flowering. • The parent lagging behind can be hastened by selective measures like supplementation of nitrogen in the soil (additional dose of 50 kg N/ha) followed by foliar spray of urea (2%), soaking of seeds in water and GA spray at primordial initiation stage. • Alternatively, selective irrigation of one parent and delayed irrigation of the other will also help in synchronizing the flowering date of the parents. • Careful manipulation of nitrogenous fertilizers, foliar spray of GA and irrigation can synchronize the flowering of parents that differs by up to one week. • If the male is advanced in the early stage due to adverse seasonal conditions, alternate plants are cut to allow the tillers to come up and such tillers are boosted with additional doses of nitrogen. In case of partial seed setting, sugary disease (ergot) may occur. In such cases, spray of Thiram/Captan is used to control the disease and avoid prolonged sowings in the same areas, since the disease may invade the late sown crop in epiphytotic proportion. However, making the available pollen to achieve good seed set ensures better control of ergot disease. Pollen viability, production and dispersal Sorghum ear heads flower from the top to downwards over 4–9 days. Flowering commences when the glume opens and the pollen sacks emerge and release the fine pollen powder which grows down the stigma tube and fertilizes the grain ovary. Fertilization normally takes place within 2 h of the pollen landing on the stigmas. This happens soon after sunrise in the coldest part of the day. Researchers find it difficult to nominate the exact temperature below which pollen production is affected and pollen becomes non-viable, but temperatures below 10°C and above 40°C definitely reduce pollen viability. Cold weather at flowering reduces pollen viability and causes erratic seed set in late planted crops. In conditions of high moisture and humidity, pollen sacks do not dry out fast enough, their skin becomes rubbery and they do not split and shed pollen. Breeding for high pollen production is one of the key breeding goals for sorghum research and development programmes.