 Keywords: Bee pollination, Crop production, Decline, Economy I N the last year, global population has crossed the milestone of 8 billion people. As population growth is directly related to our food security. It is the need of our society to create such an environment that will protect our future generation from an acute food shortage. In this respect, pollination is a service that can ensure our food security. Different insect pollinators play a significant role in this aspect by pollinating ~70% of our food crops. Among different insects Hymenopteran bees are pre-eminent in this role. Bees unintentionally pollinate the flowers while collecting pollen and nectar from them. Pollen provides all the essential nutrients to the bees, whereas the nectar is converted into honey as a future reserve. In return, bees pollinate the flowers, helping them in their reproduction and maintain their diversity. Besides, bee pollination also improves quality and quantity of the produce of ~85% cultivated crops which allow the farmer to earn Indian Farming 73 (03): 34-36; March 2023 an additional income. Even 78–94% of wild flowers also depend on insect pollination for reproduction. In the present situation of employment generation, commercial beekeeping is an excellent alternative and also a significant contributor to the socio- economic condition of the rural people. Thus, beekeeping creates a mutualistic environment between the beekeeper and the farmer. Impact of bee pollination on economy Bee pollination and beekeeping assist directly and indirectly in the country’s economic growth. California almond is the most prominent example that gets benefitted from bee pollination service. In the USA, there are approximately 2.7 million honeybee colonies. To pollinate the almond blooms, every year around 60% (1.5 million) of that commercially managed beehives have been migrated to the Central Valley of California. So, it is fair to say, each almond that they eat is the result of pollination service provided by the honeybees. This almond crop has a net value of 2.2 billion USD and it contributes approximately 21.5 billion USD to the economy of California. Besides, pollination service also provides employment to about 104,000 people performing in different sectors from production to marketing. Countries that grow cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, almonds, and Working with Apis cerana (honey bee) colony Source: Apiary unit of Uttar Banga Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (UBKV), Cooch Behar, West Bengal Indian Farming 35 March 2023 soybeans highly rely on pollination on a substantial scale. Scientists used a variety of methods to figure out the annual benefit of certain ecological costs incurred by native insects. In the USA, annual benefit was found to be over USD 57 billion, of which USD 3 billion was contributed by bee pollinators. Pollination services provided by non-Apis pollinators were valued at USD 3.44 billion in 2009, whereas only honey bees contributed approximately USD 11.