 Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2524 Use of shatawar (Asparagus recimosus) with milk to increase milk yield of sick animals Due to sickness, caused by any disease, milk yield and lactation period of the animals are reduced. For this, about 500 g shatawar (Asparagus recimosus) stem is taken and made to a paste in which about 500 ml milk is added. Then this milk is fed to the animal with bamboo stick. The practice is continued till the desired result is achieved. It is an age-old practice of Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  Keywords: shatwar, milk yield 2637 Use of chickpea, black salt and ajwain to increase milk yield of sick animals When an animal suffers from any type of sickness, its milking efficiency goes down.To increase milk yield, farmers feed the animal a mixture made from chickpea and jaggery. About 500 g chickpea seeds are soaked in water overnight. In the morning it is boiled and 250 g jaggery and 50 g black salt is added to it and mixed well. The mixture is given twice a day to the suffering animal. The practice is continued up to 10 days. It is in vogue in village Suhagi of Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. Keywords: chickpea, black salt, ajwain, milk yield Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2652 Use of doodhiya kanjh to increase milk yield of sick animals About 100 ml milk of the doodhiya kanjh is taken out and mixed with 250 g wheat dough. The mixture is given to the needy animal twice a day. The practice is continued for 10-15 days for complete results. It is an age-old practice to increase milk yield of sick animals. It is practiced in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. Keywords: doodhiya kanjh, wheat dough, milk yield Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2534 Preparation of dummy calf by filling bhusa in skin of dead calf of buffalo Mortality percentage in buffalo calf is higher as compared to that in cows, as well as the birth rate is also lower. After death, it becomes quite difficult to milk the buffalo without the calf. Hence, farmers fill bhusa in detached skin of calf by giving shape of original calf. During milking, this dummy calf is kept before the buffalo for sniffing and licking. By this procedure milking becomes easier. This is practised in each district of Maharashtra where buffaloes have been domesticated. Keywords: dummy calf, bhusa filling, calf mortality Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Feeding of locally prepared concentrates to get more milk Farmers of Nandurbar, Ahmednagar and Dhule districts are using this technique.