 One of the limitations of the current analysis is that the data is based on a snapshot of time at district level only, and so it would be of interest to explore trends by analysing more ﬁner level geo- graphical units (e.g. block level, PIN code level).. Existing vulnera- bility assessment methodologies, and vulnerability assessments are heavily inﬂuenced by data availability, data reliability, extent, scale, rating methods of vulnerability indicators, and interpretation of the ’vulnerability’ and related concepts. Trend analyses should be conducted in future as more years (or months) of data becomes available. It would validate our ﬁnd- ings through gathering qualitative data from site visits of randomly selected districts and key person interviews representing relevant stakeholders (farmers, community members, district administra- tors). Further, methodology used in this article can be expanded to include indicators of adaptation measures and intervention strate- gies undertaken in the community to resolve health challenges. We strongly believe that such future research endeavors would lead to more equitable, inclusive sustainable agriculture production and consumption pathways. 7. Data availability statement The public health data that support the ﬁndings of this study are openly available in National Family Health Survey, India (NFHS- 4) at http://rchiips.org/NFHS/districtfactsheet _ NFHS-4.shtml (last accessed on 15 January 2020 [NFHS 2016] ). The data for vulner- ability of Indian agriculture to climate change are taken from the book Atlas on Vulnerability of Indian Agriculture to Climate Change ; Hyderabad, India: Central Research Institute for Dryland Agricul- ture ( Rama Rao et al. 2013 ). 8. Funding This research did not receive any speciﬁc grant from funding agencies in the public, commercial, or not-for-proﬁt sectors. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no conﬂict of interests. Acknowledgements The authors would like to acknowledge the feedback from Dr Rakesh Tuli, former Director, National Agri-Food Biotechnology In- stitute (NABI) and Dr Mahtab S Bamji, Indian National Science Academy (INSA), Emeritus Scientist. Supplementary materials Supplementary material associated with this article can be found, in the online version, at doi:10.1016/j.spc.2021.05.004 . References Adhikari, S., Dhungana, N., Upadhaya, S., 2020. Watershed communities’ livelihood vulnerability to climate change in the Himalayas. Clim. Change 162 (3), 1307– 1321. doi: 10.1007/s10584- 020- 02870- 8 . AGRICOOP, 2016. Annual Report 2016–2017. Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare ⟨ http://agricoop.nic.in/sites/default/ﬁles/Annual _ rpt _ 201617 _ E.pdf. ⟩ . AGRICOOP, 2017. Pocket Book of Agricultural Statistics. Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare, Directorate of Economics & Statistics, Government of India, New Delhi ⟨ https: //agricoop.nic.