 These practices will help farmers keep more of their yield and provides consumers with better quality fruit, supporting sustainable mango production. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Devi Darshan, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004. *Corresponding author: devi-19101004@ pau.edu Shri M. Sankara Rao is a marginal farmer, belonging to a remote village of Naiduvalasa of Rambadrapuram Mandal of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. He is an ex-trainee of KVK, Vizianagaram. Having gained knowledge and skill in nursery, he established nursery unit with “mini-shade net” under the technical guidance of KVK faculty. He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of ` 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net Profitable Nursery through “Mini-Shade Net” Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 May–June 2024 35 R ECENTLY, a new emerging disorder, i.e. shrinking of bael (particularly in Narendra Bael-5) fruits have been recorded in subtropical regions of India which might be due to physiological imbalances viz., a combination of dry soil, poor supply of water and assimilates to the developing fruits via adjoining branch/dried twigs. Moreover, sunny days during February-March months may cause loss of water from the fruits. Shrinkage was much more closely related to leaf water potential and mostly it is reported in the drying twigs of the canopy as drying of twigs occurs after senescence of photosynthetically active leaves and simultaneously clogging of the xylem occurs which hinders water and mineral supply to the sink, i.e. developing fruits. Bael, a tree with magnificent potential is a deciduous tree, having 6.0 to 10 m height with axillary thorns and trifoliate aromatic leaves. Further, the shape of the fruit is oblong and pyriform. Bael is native of India and its existence ranges from Indian Peninsula, in dry hilly places ascending (1,200 m) in the western Himalaya. Bael is found growing along the foothills of the Himalayas, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Uttarakhand, Jharkhand, Madhya Pradesh, etc. Good sandy loam soil, sunny situation, and warm humid climate are suitable for the cultivation of this plant. At initial stages, the fruits are deep green in colour and gradually converted to light yellowish in colour at ripening. The fruits are harvested along with a portion of the fruiting stalk as it serves as a signal of ripening as it is easily detachable only in the ripe fruits. The fruits require about a year to ripen.