 Livestock /Poultry: Under present weather condition, keep animals under shade or in sheds during noon hours, provide plenty of cool water mixed with minerals for drinking and shower the animals with cold water two to three times in a day. Do Vaccination for Haemorrhageic septicemia (H.S.) disease and Blue Quarter (B.Q.) in animals. Udder of milking animals must be properly cleaned with zinc oxide or boric powder. Also give deworming tablet to younger animals. For control of ticks and mites spray Deltamethrin or Amitral 2 ml/liter of water. Spray sanitizers or phenyl in the animal shed to avoid flies and mosquitoes. Give stored fodder with mineral mixture. 167 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS GOA Advisories for Crops Crop Crop stage/Pest/ Disease Advisories Rice Nursery AS the rainy season is commencing all the farmers are advised to repair the bunds of rice field and keep bunds weed free While puddling the field, green leaf manures or biomass could be added and incorporated @ 5 t /ha. When intensity of rainfall is low apply 1 kg urea per 100 sq meterto the rice nursery Control the crabs in the rice field by collecting during night time Cashew Cashew stem and root borer (CSRB) When intensity of rainfall is low or after rains stoptake up the control measure for CSRB Remove the grubs from the holes with the help of 15 mm chisel and apply Chloropyriphos 20 EC @ 5 ml/liter of water on the stem (swabbing) and drench the same solution @ 2 litre per tree. Apply Neem oil 5 ml/litre of water or neem cake 500g to1 kg / tree Protection from wind and rain Clean up drainage channels and avoid water logging in orchards Protect the young plants by giving mechanical support\staking Banana Protection from wind and rain Clean up drainage channels and avoid water logging in orchards Protect the plants by giving mechanical support\staking Coconut Transplanting South-west monsoon has made an onset over Goa. Hence transplanting of seedlings can be done in well drained soils A spacing of 7.5 m x 7.5 m to 8.0 m x 8.0 m in the square system is generally recommended for coconut Protection from wind and rain Clean up drainage channels and avoid water logging in orchards Protect the plants by giving mechanical support\staking 168 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Crop Crop stage/Pest/ Disease Advisories Arecanut Transplanting Once south-west monsoon has made an onset over Goa. Hence transplanting of seedlings can be done in well drained soils Plant Protection Spray Bordeaux Mixture (01 %) to control fruit rot. Protection from wind and rain Clean up drainage channels and avoid water logging in orchards Protect the plants by giving mechanical support\staking Vegetables Sowing When intensity of rainfall is low take up the sowing of vegetable crops cluster beans, cucumber, bitter guard, snake guard, ridge guard etc.