 The crop productivity and farm profitability of RW-mungbean system increased by ~11 and 29%, respectively, under SDI system compared to farmers’ practice (FP) of flood irrigation system. However, in MW system, ~20% higher productivity, 49% higher profitability was recorded under SDI system compared to flood RW system. The SDI enabled integration of mungbean in cereal (RW/MW) systems, which contributed to ~10 and 20% increase in productivity and profitability, respectively, irrespective of cropping systems. Potential areas of rice Bioreactor for rapid composting Bioreactor for rapid composting Ekcel-CompostR and Ekcel-ShredR for rapid decomposition of waste biomass, were developed. Ekcel-ShredR is used to produce fine textured cellulosic food waste materials (3–6 cm) from different sources of food stuff. Ekcel-CompostR enhances the decomposition rate of shredded waste using thermophillic ligno-cellulolytic Accel microbial consortia, in turn reduces composting. All ingredients and microbial consortium are mixed and fed together with required amount of water. The mesophilic microbial consortium was added at initial stage and thermophilic bio-inoculum was used after 15 days of decomposition. The final compost product was ready within 25–30 days of decomposition. irrigability. Potential crop zoning involves development of Land Management units (LMUs), bio-physical suitability evaluation and linking of bio-physical suitable maps to the relative spread and productivity of reference crops and cropping sequences. The potential areas of ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 11 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Erosion induced loss of soil organic carbon: Main objective of the project is to estimate erosion-induced loss of soil organic carbon from a soil affected by different phases of erosion. Profiles from reference as well as eroded sites were sampled by a depth incremental sampling procedure. The sample of each layer was well mixed and an amount of approximately 1 kg was kept for 137Cs activity determination as well as for chemical and physical analysis. The inventory of 137Cs data from 8 runoff plots representing various phases of erosion were analyzed for quantification of soil erosion. Carbon enrichment ratio (CER) was determined based on the soil organic carbon (SOC) concentration in eroded sediment and SOC concentration in surface soil (0.15 m) of experimental runoff plots involving different levels of erosion. The higher values of CER (between 3.28 and 3.62) were observed in slight to moderately eroded sites whereas relatively lower values (between 2.04 and 2.32) were observed in severe to very severely eroded sites. Taking an average values of erosion from run off plots, it was observed that every year about 225 kg of SOC and 36 kg of N, P, K is lost with 15 t/ha of soil erosion. Additionally, about 1 tonne of FYM, 52 kg urea, 15 kg superphosphate and 21 kg murate of potash per year will be required to replace the nutrients lost through erosion.