 I find statistically insignificant differences in night time luminosity between treatment and control villages in the years prior to the launch of PMGSY. I also conduct a formal test of equality of trends in the pre-period in Columns 7 and 8 of Appendix Table B2 — in particular, I estimate the differ- ential changes in night time luminosity across treatment and control villages pre-PMGSY using data from 1997–2000. The coefficients on the interaction term are statistically indistinguishable from zero — I thus conclude that there is no differential change in night time luminosity in treatment villages relative to control villages prior to the launch of PMGSY. Taken together, these three exercises minimize concerns over con- founding nonparallel pre-trends in the subsequent difference-in- differences analysis. 6.2. Compliance with program rules Table 2 presents evidence for compliance of the road-building pro- gram with the stated rules. Villages that were classified as unconnected by the program were 56 percent less likely to have any type of road in the village at baseline, as observed in the REDS survey (column 1).23 This result suggests that rules were adhered to in determining eligibility under the program. Next, for program-eligible villages, there was a 42 percentage point increase in the probability of having a program road in their village by 2006, significant at the 1 percent level (column 2). 6.3. Impact on agricultural outcomes I begin by first accounting for the movement of workers across sectors in response to new connectivity. Table 3 presents estimates of the impact of improvements in rural road infrastructure on households’ activity status. Households’ activity status is measured using an indi- cator for whether the household cultivates any agricultural land, and 22 Given the 17-year gap, there is significant attrition and household splits between the two waves — as a result, the sample for this exercise is 38% smaller than that used in the main analysis. Further, the survey questionnaire changed significantly across waves — as a result, the set of outcomes I can examine in this exercise are limited. I describe the changes in survey samples and questionnaires across waves in greater detail in Appendix D.2. 23 Recall that eligibility for a program road was determined by the proximity of a village to a hard-topped, all-weather road. Thus, under the program, villages with dirt/fair-weather roads at baseline were considered unconnected. Table 2 Compliance with program rules. Any road in village Program road in village (1999) (2006) (1) (2) Unconnected −0.421*** (0.0768) Program-Eligible 0.423*** (0.0837) State FE No Yes Dependent Variable Mean 0.747 0.131 Observations 221 221 Notes: Outcome in Column (1) is an indicator that equals 1 if there is any fair- weather or all-weather road in the village in 1999. Outcome in Column (2) is an indicator that equals 1 if there is a program road in the village in 2006.