 If animals are already consuming their maximum amount of dry matter and are still losing body condition, some roughage will have to be replaced with a more energy-dense feed, such as a grain. Vaccinate the animals for pox disease in this month. Poultry Many of vaccines/medicine/vitamins are given to poultry through water and as the water consumption of bird is reduced during winter season, therefore, care should be taken that waterers are removed few hours prior to watering and ample amount of medication is added so that each bird gets benefit of medicine/vaccine or other supplements. If still in the month of January the birds huddle together in the farm, this indicates that the ambient temperature of the farm is low and heaters, bulbs and bukharis should be used to increase the temperature. In layer farms, add a supplemental light, if you want to increase egg production throughout the cold weather. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 115 February Month Cattle and Buffalo The controlled breeding programme for animals should continue in the month of February so that all participating animals become pregnant during this month. All new-born animals should be dewormed. To prevent mastitis in dairy cattle, they should be milked completely. Berseem and Alfalfa should be dried and stored as dry fodder for use during times of low or no green fodder availability. Sheep and Goat All suggestions provided during the last month for protection of the animals against cold and inclement weather may be practiced this month too because cold still present in this month. Lambs/kids should be vaccinated against PPR. Deworming should be done in this month also, in cases of high parasitic load. Poultry As low temperature causes more feed intake and higher oxygen demand, provide adlib feed to the birds for rapid weight gain and egg production. If water is cold enough, then it should be given to chicken after adding hot water to it, so that the water comes to normal temperature. Store feed in dry place so that it may not get in contact with moisture. If birds fall sick, contact local veterinarian. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 116 HARyANA ANd deLHI Wheat, chickpea, barley, and mustard are main Rabi season crops grown by farmers in Haryana and Delhi States. Though, there has been Substantive increase in the productivity of these crops, yet gap persists between the yield realized by the farmers and average yield of the improved varieties of these crops. For instance, productivity of wheat in Haryana and Delhi is, less than average yield of wheat varieties recommended for the states. Similar gaps have been registered for mustard and chickpea crops. Several factors have been identified which are responsible for this gap. Farmer’s reluctance in adoption of improved practices of crop production is one of the main factors.