 But Indian papers in agriculture are not well cited. There are two reasons for the poor citation record of our agricultural research. First is the absence of a rigorous quality consciousness, leading to publishing results in pieces and in journals of no consequence. Second, is low visibility. Not many researchers notice what we write. In this connection, open access institutional repositories can make a big difference. The idea is simple where one can publish paper in whatever journal but place the full text of the final accepted version in an open access repository so that any researcher with simple Internet access can find and read it. He further informed that the Indian Academy of Sciences will soon set up an open access repository that would make available the full texts of all papers published by all Fellows of the Academy past and present. ICRISAT 9 and NIIT-Rourkela have a mandate in place and all papers by their faculty and students will necessarily have to be deposited in their institutional repository. All AUs and ICAR institutes can also follow and the agriculture research sector be the first in India to have the record of 100% open access. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Agenda 5.7: Upscaling IT Infrastructure in SAUs PD (DIPA) informed that the IT infrastructure in respect of bandwidth, inter and intranet integrated threat management, website, e-courses and video conferencing has increased considerably but most of the SAUs lack scalable lease line facility to meet the requirement. There is need to maintain lease line for 100 Mbps speed for linking with National Knowledge Network (NKN) connectivity during this plan period. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Agenda 5.8: Strengthening of Directorate of Extension Education Presently,28 KVKs are operating under the Directorate of Extension at OUAT, Bhubaneswar. Request was made for its strengthening in terms of manpower and physical facilities. [Action: DDG (Extn)] Agenda 5.9: Strengthening of IPR Cell OUAT, Bhubaneswar and UAS, Bangalore presented that the Intellectual Property Protection is to be pursued vigorously in each of the Universities in the present IPR regime. ICAR may consider providing liberal support to such cells in the Universities. Training in IPR aspects may be imparted to scientists/teachers. [Action: ADG (IP&TM)] 10 Agenda 5.10: Strengthening of remandated KVK AAU, Jorhat presented the need for adequate funding support from the ICAR for strengthening of five remandated KVKs with the University. [Action: DDG (Extn)] Agenda 5.11: Provision of fund to SAUs to carry out location- specific research project AAU, Jorhat proposed a special provision to the tune of Rs. 30 lakhs per college per annum for the University so that location-specific research could be carried out involving the faculty members. It is pointed out that there is a special budgetary provision for the NEH region, which can be exploited for such purpose.