 This increased growth rate of livestock demands an increase in the fodder production required to maintain sustainability in livestock production. But there is a clear gap between the need and production of feed since the land allocation for green fodder production is limited to only 5.4% (8 mha) out of the total gross cropped area in our country. Lack of quality feed and fodder is a major concern which limits the productivity of livestock. Currently, India is facing a deficit of 35.6% of green fodder, 26% of dry fodder and 41% of concentrate feed ingredients. Green fodder is a critical constituent in the dairy ration for optimum productive and reproductive performance. However, the major constraints in green fodder production are the unavailability of Indian Farming 73 (02): 02-05; February 2023 land, water scarcity, climate change, shortage of labour, the requirement for manure and fertilizer, and more growth time. Considering these constraints, hydroponics technology is coming up as an alternative to produce green fodder for dairy animals. Hydroponics is the science of growing plants in nutrient-rich solutions instead of soil and has proven to be efficient both financially and environmentally. Hydroponic methods have been in use for a long to grow plants, primarily vegetables, but now they are being used across many countries to take pressure off the land and to grow green fodder round the year for livestock. Many livestock farmers are switching to hydroponic fodder production from conventional production methods, as the fodder produced by this method is highly nutritious, and conserves water. Additionally, animal production may become more profitable because the resulting fodder’s nutritional qualities have changed (becoming richer in sugars, vitamins and lysine while containing less starch). The presence of important micronutrients and other phytonutrients may have added advantage in optimizing the health and reproduction of farm animals. Furthermore, the quality of the livestock products (meat and milk) may also be improved with enhanced contents of omega-3 fatty acid (ω3) and conjugated linoleic acid (CLA). It is a viable farmer- friendly alternative technology for landless farmers. Fodder crops suitable for hydroponics Yellow maize, cowpea, horse gram, sun hemp, ragi, bajra, foxtail millet and jowar have been grown successfully as livestock fodder. However, maize is the most preferred fodder crop due to its 5–6 times higher yield than the conventionally grown maize. Leguminous crops grow well and are more encouraging as fodder owing to their high crude protein Indian Farming 3 February 2023 content than cereal crops. Green fodder obtained from hydroponics consists of grass with grains, roots, stems and leaves, and is found to be highly palatable with no wastage. Whereas conventionally grown fodder consists of a stem and leaves only.