 Nare . Nare . Nare . Nare (Scientist), Farm Machinery and Power Engineering, ICAR-Central Potato Research Station, Jalandhar. E-mail: brajeshagengg@gmail.com Rubber belt sreen type potato sorting and grading machine operated knapsack sprayer can be used which has a field capacity of 0.5 ha/h. Potato digging Before starting harvesting operation haulms are removed manually using sickles or with chemical methods. Potato digging is a cumbersome process and involves a lot of manpower. About 600-700 man-hours/ha are required for manual digging of 300-400 quintals of potato from huge soil mass of around 10,000 quintals. In manual harvesting spade or khurpa is used which results in up to 10% tuber cut or bruise which is a huge loss to the farmer. In manual harvesting some portion is always left behind in the field. Animal drawn plow is another tool for potato digging. This method is faster as compared to manual digging but in case of large scale farming, harvesting is delayed with this method and fields become dry. Tractor operated diggers are fast, economical and cause least damage to the produce. Digger elevator is an efficient machine which exposes 90-95% tubers in optimum field conditions. This machine has to be maintained properly as there are many parts which move in soil and cause more wear and tear. Multipurpose passive blade potato digger is another less expensive equipment. It exposes about 80-85% potatoes and is easy to maintain. It can be used in early crop (60 Indian Horticulture 54 R e s e a r c h R e s e a r c h R e s e a r c h R e s e a r c h R e s e a r c h R K Singh, Tanuja Buckseth, Ashwani K Sharma, J K Tiwari and S K Chakrabarti Potato seed certification in India Certification of seed potato tubers, minitubers and true potato seed is essential so as to ensure seed quality and prevent seed degeneration as well as spread of pests and diseases. Seed certification is managed by Central Seed Certification Board though ‘Seed Act’ which provides a set of rules for regulation of quality and purity of the seed material. The rules framed by the Central Seed Certification Board are followed by the State Seed Certification Agencies for carrying out the certification. The responsibility for the quality standards of seed that enters the trade market lies with the state seed certification agencies. A S per the national policy of seed multiplication, the multiplication phases of seed have been grouped into three categories i.e. i) breeder or basic seed; ii) foundation- I and II and iii) certified seed. The breeder seed is considered to be pure, disease free and no tolerance limit is fixed while for foundation (FS-I and FS-II) and certified seed the tolerance limits for viruses off-type, tuber-borne diseases and grades have been fixed by Government of India. There shall be two types of seed potatoes, namely the hill and plain grown and shall be designated as hill seed and plain seed respectively.