 They may be treated by immersing the pot in an insecticide solution. Spider mites are very small and cannot be seen individually without a magnifying lens. They are found under the leaves, in tiny silvery pits, where they suck the plant juices. They can be managed by maintaining proper humidity, and treating them with an insecticide or miticide. The pot may be immersed in an insecticide / miticide solution. Thrips are minute slender insects with fringed wings. They are having length of 1 mm or less. They are found in deformed or spotted flowers. They are difficult to eradicate because they tend to lodge in the flower buds and under sheaths where they are protected from insecticide sprays. Deformed or spotted flowers should be removed and destroyed. For sucking insects stated above, insecticides like, acephate, dimethoate, imidacloprid etc insecticides could be used @ 1 g /l solution. Slugs are known to emerge at night. They may be found anywhere. Sluggo available in liquid or granular form, may be used to control them. Or they may be removed physically and destroyed. Treating insects with an insecticide 1. While using commercially available insecticides, one should always follow the directions on the label, and take all possible precautions to avoid poisoning him or herself and others around them. 2. One should never use more than the recommended doses of the pesticide. 3. Safe and effective insecticide may be prepared at home. Soap solution prepared by mixing one teaspoon of a mild liquid dishwashing detergent to a litre of lukewarm water. Phalaenopsis orchid flower on cultivated plant Indian Horticulture 24 4. Many insecticides kill only the adult insects, not necessarily the eggs or the larvae (immature insects). Insects may also develop resistance to insecticides. That means, some of the insects are not affected by the insecticide and they will reproduce again. Treating those insects with the same insecticide will not kill them. To avoid resistance, one can rotate insecticides, that is-first application with one insecticide, the second application with another and the third one either with the first insecticide or with a third one. 5. Rotating is not necessary with the insecticidal soap solution prepared in home, because this insecticidal soap works by suffocating the insects. Only thing is that, the soap solution need to apply frequently so that insects coming out of eggs are also controlled. 6. If the infestation is not excessive, insecticide solution will be sprayed thoroughly on the new growths, leaves (both sides), flower stem, back of buds and flowers. If the infestation is widespread the plant should be dipped in insecticide solution for 15 minutes. 7. For the treatment to be effective one should treat the plants (spraying or immersing) at least three times, at an interval of one week (at an interval of 3-4 days for aphids).