 Apart from health benefits, these group of plants offer livelihood security to a large group of farmers in the country. MAP sector has contributed immensely by producing diverse range of plant-based intermediary compounds and value-added downstream end products having several applications; drug formulation, food flavouring, perfumery, culinary, toiletry, health products, food supplements, cosmetics, incense and other anthropogenic applications and animal-care products. MAPs have proven their importance as an immunity booster during the recent COVID-19 pandemic. Some of recommended medicinal herbs for immunity include ashwagandha, giloe, tulsi, mulatthi, long pepper and others. India is bestowed with 8% of world’s biodiversity on 2.4% of world’s geographical area and endowed with 45,000 plant species out of which about 15,000-20,000 plants are known to have medicinal properties, of which about 7,000-7,500 are being used in Fig.1. Commendation received by Medi-hub, TBI from Honourable Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi in his Maan Ki Baat Radio program in the month of 26th September, 2021 September–October 2023 57 Indian System of Medicine (ISM). Over the years, there has been a tremendous growing interest in traditional systems of medicines mainly because of advantages: natural products, non-narcotic, have minimum side-effects, easily accessible at affordable prices, and also due to inadequacy of conventional medicines in the treatment of non-communicable diseases. Current global trade of medicinal plants (MPs) is estimated to be around USD120 billion, and is projected to reach USD5 trillion by 2050. India is emerging as a major player in the global trade of plant-based medicines. Entrepreneurial needs: Herbs based industry is growing in the country, as a result, there is an increased demand for medicinal and aromatic plants. ICAR-DMAPR Fig. 2. Entrepreneurial opportunities in medicinal and aromatic plants Quality assurance Certi cat ion Organic cultivation Extension mangment Inputs Soil manage ment Water manage ment Micropro pagation High tech Horticult ure Precision farming Contract farming Hydropo nics Mechani zation Crop nutrition Seed and quality planting materials Wild harvesting Cultivation of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Essential oils Raw drugs Mechani zation Drying Packing Grading Sorting Fresh herbs Post Harvest manage ment Trading Transportation Export Networking Hoarding Marketing Knowledge management Drones Remote sensing Arti cial intelligence Internet of Thinking Sensors Mobile applications Block chain ICTs Indian Horticulture 58 is involved in development of innovative technologies such as high yielding varieties and quality planting materials, waste to wealth technologies, innovative formulations for healthcare, standard operating protocols and extraction technologies in medicinal and aromatic plants. Some of them have been patented and others are likely to be granted patents.