 Women farmers’ information needs and concerns must be adequately represented and addressed to boost agricultural productivity and build resilience of farming communities. 3.3.1. Gendered variations in access to information and extension services on CSA practices Studies highlight that agricultural information and extension ser­ vices are predominantly received by men (Jost et al., 2016; Vark, 2013), and women farmers are less aware of CSA and agro-advisory practices than men (Venkatasubramanian et al., 2014; Mehar et al., 2016). The current extension system tends to ignore women as they are perceived to have little say in the purchase, adoption, or use of farm input and equipment, and less control over decisions to hire farm laborers and spend family income (Chanana-Nag and Aggarwal, 2020). Weather and climate-based information is often shared during public meetings and activities, and women’s access may be lower than men’s due to re­ strictions on their mobility. Roles and responsibilities that women and men carry out in the household and community, their differences in asset ownership, and prevalent social norms and institutions largely favor men’s participation over women’s in activities beyond the P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 7 household (Gumucio et al., 2019). Very often the recommended criteria for selecting contact farmers for trainings and meetings are based on literacy level, land ownership, and membership in farmers’ associations, all of which are biased against women (Beevi et al., 2018). As a result, women farmers’ likelihood of receiving information on CSA practices and innovative technologies is much lower (Paul and Kumar, 2016). Mobile phones and radios are another commonly used medium for delivering agro-advisory services. However, women have limited access to such assets; when they do, they may share it with other household members. Early warning systems and weather-related information, often shared through SMS, are less accessible to women due to their reduced access and lower literacy and numeracy (Vark, 2013). Farmer producer organizations and farmer cooperatives are impor­ tant platforms for information dissemination on agro-advisory services and capacity building in rural areas. However, women are mostly excluded from such groups since they do not fulfil the membership criteria of land ownership and/or capital requirement, along with their inability to become shareholders given financial constraints and lack of decision-making power. Women’s social networks are often confined to their families or their villages, whereas men can access more dispersed sources of information (Alvi et al., 2021). While men tend to have more frequent interactions with government and other organizations working on agriculture, women’s interactions are largely confined to local and informal networks, so their access to information on weather, climate, and CSA practices is significantly limited (Venkatasubramanian et al.