 Intervention of agroecology in conventional agriculture imminent Concurrent emergence of multiple nutrient deficiencies is one of the prime reasons for fast depleting soil organic carbon stock. No doubt, there has been concerted efforts of measuring carbon pool of Indian soils, including the carbon stock under different land uses. These efforts are more of indicative than suggestive, especially on mitigation terms, with still miniscule information available on horticultural crops based land uses. Lack of concepts like crop grids and land uses -based efforts have put researchers in dilemma to define the upper limits of soil organic carbon as a guarantee to sustained crop production, despite the fact that soil carbon content is the single most important soil property having cascading effects on entire range of soil properties. Our efforts to improve soil organic carbon using various forms of composts and manures have proved futile using citrus as a case study, despite an initial display of increase in organic carbon in the first –-5 years, but later started declining, regardless of fruit yield level. These studies also lend strong support that unless carbon is deposited into passive carbon pool, mere improvement in active pool of carbon will not aid in developing a climate resilient crop production system, unless agroecological intervention is brought into the system. Therefore, an introduction of concept like microbial consortium brought some respite to infuse production sustainability. Exploiting microbial niche for soil-plant health bioprospecting Plant phytobiome displaying microbial diversity (culture dependent or culture independent) offer the best opportunity to develop and upscale the combination of rhizo-competent microbes, popularly called as microbial consortium or microbial concoction. The most common objective of developing microbial consortium is to capitalize on both the capabilities of individual microbes and their interactions to create useful systems in tune with enhanced productivity, and soil health improvements through efficient metabolic functionality. We carried out studies with an aim to develop rhizosphere specific microbial consortium. The efficient microbes, viz. Aspergillus flavus (MF113270, P-solubilizer), Bacillus pseudomycoides (MF113272, K-solubilizer), Acinetobacter radioresistens (MF113273, N-solubilizer), Micrococcus yunnanensis (MF113274, P-solubilizer) and Paenibacillus alvei (MF113275, P- solubilizer) were finally identified and later tested under nursery as well as field conditions. In the experiment on progressive response of multiple microbes of the microbial consortium was tested without addition of any inorganic fertilizers through soil inoculation, different microbes for the purpose of retrofitting microbes as nutrient replacement. Multiple location testing revealed a significant reduction in mortality of citrus seedlings and budlings.