 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 268 megHALAyA Boro Paddy Boro paddy variety viz., Navin, Bisnuprasad, Joymati, KRH 2, DRRH 1, Swarna Ganga Red should be selected. Nursery raising should be done in the month of November to December. The field should be ploughed 3 to 4 times followed by laddering. Levelling should be done properly to retain water uniformly in the field. Application of FYM @ 50 quintal/ha and treatment with biofertilizer Azospirillum @ 200g/acre seedling. Transplanting @ 2-3 seedlings/hill should be done in the month of December to January. Spacing of 15-25x10-20cm should be maintained. Gap filling of dead hills should be done within 7- 10 days of transplanting. Irrigation water is to be applied to maintain 3-5 cm of standing water in the field after 2-3 days of transplanting upto 10-15 days before harvest. Maize Plough the field for 2-3 times to obtain fine tilth for better and uniform germination. Maize variety suitable for rabi are Hybrid 4558, Hero 22, DA61, RCM 76, Vivek Hybrid etc. Sowing should be done in the month of last August to mid- September. Application of lime @400-500kg/ha in furrows should be done to achieve higher yield due to acidic nature of soil. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 269 Seed rate of 25-30 kg/ha and spacing of 60 cm x 30 cm row to row and plant to plant should be maintained. One hand weeding and earthing up of crop at 40-45 days after sowing found to control the weed and increase crop yield. Mulching with rice straw or weed biomass may control weeds and conserve moisture for higher productivity. Harvesting should be done when the silk attains brown colouration Rapeseed and Mustard Early sowing (October-November) and harvesting before the onset of frost. Growing of toria varieties such as M-27, TS-36, TS-46 and mustard variety PM 27, PM 28, NRCHB 101. Soil incorporation of Trichoderma @ 2.5 kg/ha pre incubated in 50 kg of well rotten FYM. Seed treatment with freshly prepared aqueous garlic bulb extract 2% or Trichoderma @ 10g/kg seed for the management of seed borne pathogens. Avoid narrow spacing/heavy seed rate. Use yellow sticky traps for mustard aphids. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 270 2% neem oil or 5% NSKE is found to be effective against mustard aphid and diamond back moth. Practices of zero tillage mustard/pea in rice fallow to enhance the cropping intensity. Zero tillage cultivation of toria after rice and maize is a viable proposition which saves time, energy and reduces cost of cultivation. In Dry upland terraces Maize-mustard, Maize + French bean- mustard, Rice – mustard and Groundnut – mustard can be grown. Marshy/lowland/wetland conditions (raised beds) Maize-mustard, Rice-mustard, Rice-mustard-tomato, Rice-mustard-potato can be grown. Intercropping on raised beds: Cabbage + mustard, Broccoli + mustard, Coriander + mustard. The crop should be harvested as soon as the pods turn yellowish- brown.