 The objectives of the workshop included: Finalize broad areas of performance indicators and weightages, Finalize measurable parameters under each indicator and their weightages, Evolve consensus on performance assessment or rating, Evolve a suitable methodology and Explore suitable modalities for mechanism for generation of relevant data. The workshop proposed to undertake performance /assessment rating of SAUs - with 8 x 3 matrix (3 stands for Input, Process and Output; 8 stands for Teaching, Research, Extension, Organization and Management, Social Relevance, Resource Generation, Infrastructure, Networking and Collaboration). The subject generated detailed discussion on performance parameters and the weightages thereof. It was recommended that All the AUs may appoint a Nodal Officer for this purpose; AUs to conduct Workshops at regional level, and NAARM will help in sensitizing the AUs; the data for performance assessment should be provided by the AUs through self-study reports; the process of standardization and validation of structured formats for data generation to be completed during the next six month; and NAARM will facilitate the process of performance assessment by developing the methodology. Action: All VCs/ Director (NAARM) Agenda 6: Revision of ICAR Model Act for Agriculture Universities ADG (EQR) while presenting the agenda informed that for enhancing the uniformity of structure, governance and efficiency of the AUs in the context of emerging challenges, the ICAR Model Act was revised through a Committee. The final draft was presented in the Accreditation Board Meeting held on July 29, 2008. After incorporating the suggestions of the Accreditation Board, the draft was placed on ICAR website for comments of the AUs that were largely in agreement of the draft. After the needed improvisation of minor nature the revised Model Act was presented by him. In the revised Model Act, (i) the provisions of all chapters including definitions, territorial jurisdiction, admissions to the universities, powers and functions of the university, councils/bodies and officers of the AU have been rationalized, (ii) composition of the Board of Management modified and one representative of state legislative bodies such as assembly, council or any autonomous/ para-statal body nominated by the Government included as a member, (iii) in the three member Search Committee for Vice Chancellor, one nominee of the Government is now included replacing the Chairman, UGC or his nominee, (iv) Academic, Research and Extension Councils have been modified and the Registrar and Comptroller included as permanent invitee, (v) integration of education, research and extension emphasized, and (vi) the composition and 6 objectives of State Coordination Committee/ Council for higher Agricultural Education in the States having more than one AU, been redefined. The recommendations were highly appreciated and accepted in principle unanimously by all.