 Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated 17 biofortified varieties to the nation on the occasion of World Food Day 2020. Higher replacement of old varieties with new ones and availability of high-quality seeds of such varieties contribute to pulses revolution during 2016-21. The country also witnessed sugar revolution which is attributed to sugarcane varieties mainly Co 0238 which gives 20 tons/ha more cane yield and about 12% higher sugar recovery. In horticultural crops, an all-round progress has been seen in varietal development of fruits, vegetables, plantation and medicinal plants. Digitized seed portal, sea route transportation protocols, etc. have been quite successful in expanding the reach of seeds and export markets of banana. The conservation and improvement of indigenous animal breeds is national priority. Our concerted efforts resulted in registration of 56 animal breeds including poultry. Improved breed of Frieswal cow was declared a new breed in 2019. Besides, new varieties of pig, sheep, poultry were also developed with better meat quality and productivity. Towards better animal health and hygiene, we focused on developing new vaccines and diagnosis kits for efficient management of animal diseases and increasing animal productivity. The induced breeding technologies, with a focus on ornamental fishes, standardized along with technology backstopping for promotion of open-sea cage farming. Several nutraceutical/health products from sea- weeds were developed and commercialized. In order to hasten the process of soil health analysis, Minilab for soil testing at affordable price was developed and deployed. To reduce the chemical foot print in the soil and environment, new and remunerative integrated and organic farming system models were developed. These IFS models are being upscaled by different States. To ensure high-quality higher agricultural education, we strengthened the process of accreditation of agricultural universities/colleges and implemented measures to attract talent in agricultural education and research. Greater emphasis was on skill and entrepreneurship development under National Agriculture Higher Education Project (NAHEP). Our efforts to reach out to as many farmers as possible was intensified through the development and use of ICTs particularly through the energized KVK system. Our KVKs strived, through mass awareness DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 ii in the villages of Haryana, Punjab and western UP, for the in-situ management of rice residues. This effort, along with farm mechanization through the financial support of the Central Government, we could register over 52% reduction in the residue burning events in 2019 over 2016. ICAR placed greater emphasis to work for remote, disadvantaged and difficult areas such as Leh- Ladakh, NEH and in A&N Island.