 481 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages 741 Use of dry leaves of methi or bana leaves to control insects during grain storage Volume 2, page 252 Methi Methi: Bengali: methi, methi-shak, methuka, hoemgreeb; Gujarati: methi, methini, bhaji; Hindi: methi, muthi; Kannada: menthya, mentesoppu, menk-palle, mente; Malayalam: uluva, venthiam; Marathi: methi; Sanskrit: methika, chandrika, asumodhagam; Tamil: vendayam; Telugu: mentikoora (herb), mentulu (seeds). Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Methi: Fenugreek Methi: Trigonella foenum-graecum Linn. Methi: The roasted seeds are used as a substitute for coffee. The plant possesses insect-repellent properties. The seeds are aromatic, carminative, tonic and galactagogue. They are used externally in poultices for boils, abscesses and ulcer and internally as emolient for inflammation of the intestinal tract. They find application also in veterinary medicines, and are used in poultices, ointments and plasters, and form a constituent of 'condition powders' for cattle, horses and sheeps. The aqueous extract of seeds shows antibiotic activities against Micrococus pyogenes var. aureus. Methi: An aromatic annual, 30-60 cm tall, found wild in Kashmir, Punjab and the upper Gangetic plains, and widely cultivated in many parts of India. Leaves pinnate, 3-foliate; leaflets 2.0 -2.5 cm long, oblanceolate-oblong, obscurely dentate; flowers white or yellowish-white, 1 or 2, axillary; pods 3-15 cm long, 10-20 seeded; seeds greenish-brown, 2.5 - 5.0 x 2.0-3.5 mm oblong with a deep groove across one corner, giving the seeds a hooked appearance. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name 745 Grain or seed storage in wooden structure layered with cowdung and urine Volume 2, page 252 Chilli and laung Laung: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: laung; Kannada: lavanga; Malayalam: karayampu, krambu; Tamil: kirambu; Telugu: lavangamuchettu (tree), lavangamulu (buds). Laung: Clove tree Habit Contents GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Laung: Syzygium aromaticum (Linn.) Merrill & Perry Laung: The cloves are aromatic, stimulant and carminative. They are used in various forms of gastric irritation and dyspepsia. They are administered in the form of powder or infusion to relieve nausea and vomiting, to correct flatulence and to excite languid digestion. The oil is used as a local analgesic for hypersensitive dentines and carious cavities. Used externally, the oil is rubefacient and counter-irritant; internally, it is carminative and antispasmodic. Laung: A pyramidal or conical evergreen tree, 9-12 m high, sometimes taller. Main stems erect, 100 cm in girth, often forking at a height of 1.5-1.8 m; bark-smooth, grey; leaves lanceolate, in pairs, acute at both ends, 7.5-12.