 Emblica officinalis Plant, stembark, leaf, root, flower and seeds of Phyllanthus emblica contain vitamin C and are used as refrigerant, diuretic, laxative, acrid, cooling agent, carminative, stomachic, aperient, vermifuge, anaemia, jaundice, dropsy, cough, inflammation of the eye, asthma, bronchitis, biliousness. Parabia et al. (2000) 185 Medicinal uses of Plantago ovata, P.isabgol Seed and husk of Plantago ovata contains mucilege, fattyoil, albuminous matter, glucoside, aucubin and are used as demulcent, cooling agent, diuretic, laxative agent, mild astrigent, emollient, catarrh, chronic constipation, dysentery, diarrhoea, bladder affections, urethra and kidney disorders. Parabia et al. (2000) 186 Medicinal use of Picrorhiza kurroa Rhizome of Picrorhiza kurroa contains glycoside, picrorrhizine, non bitter kirrin, kuticol and used for cathartic, stomachic, cholagogue, antiperiodic. Parabia et al. (2000) 187 Medicinal uses of Piper longum Immature berries, stem, roots of Piper longum contain resin, volatile oil, starch, gum, fats, piperine and are used for infusion, stimulant, carminative, alterative, tonic, aphrodisiac, vermifuge, emmenagogue, stimulant, externally rubifacient, catarrh, asthma, respiratory disorder, gastric disorders, colic, flatulence. Parabia et al. (2000) 216 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 188 Medicinal uses of Prosopis cineraria, P.stephaniana Stembark, pods, ashes of Prosopis cineraria contain spicigerine, laknoic acid, prosogerin-A which is used as astrigent, rheumatism, scorpion sting. Parabia et al. (2000) 189 Medicinal uses of Ploygonum aviculare (nutgrass) The seed, stem, leaf, root and root oil of Ploygonum aviculare are used for externally application of skin diseases (seed) cutaneous affections. Scabies, rhematism (seed oil) containing karangene and stem bark which contains bitter alkaloids is useful to cure internally bleeding piles. The leaf of the plant as poultice applied on ulcers with worms. The root juice is useful to for cleaing foul ulcers. Parabia et al. (2000) 190 Medicinal uses of Polyalthia longifolia Stem bark of Polyalthia longifolia contains proanthocyandin, b- Sitosterol, leuccocyanidine trimer for use as febrifuge. Parabia et al. (2000) 191 Medicinal uses of Plumbago zeylanica Root and milky juice of Plumbago zeylanica contain plumbagin and are used as alterative, gastric, stimulant, appetizer, indigestion, scabies, ulcers. Parabia et al. (2000) 192 Medicinal uses of Physalis minima Plant and berries of Physalis minima contain b-Withaphysalin, Physalin-b, Dihydroxyphysalin-b and are used as tonic, diuretic, purgative, alterative, diseases of spleen, dropsy, gout, urinary diseases. Parabia et al.