 The nitrogen fixers, P-solubilizers and mobilizers are the popularly known biofertilizers. As a result of advancement of science, new groups of biofertilizers such as K-solubilizers, Zn-solubilizers and many consortia supplying different nutrients have been added. In addition to supply of nutrients, many of these microbes help the plants to tolerate abiotic stresses. Indian Council of Agricultural Research recognized the importance of biofertilizers and started AICRP on Biological Nitrogen fixation in 1976, which was renamed as All India Network Project on Soil Biodiversity-Biofertilizers in 2008. These coordinated projects and the constituent institutes of ICAR have developed a large number of biofertilizers (41 technologies) for different field and horticultural crops. Government of India initiated National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) in 2014 where use of biofertilizers is being promoted to improve soil health. Though a lot of efforts have been made on the development and popularization of biofertilizers, the usage of biofertilizers is not at the expected level. The distribution of production and usage across the country is also skewed with south zone dominating both in terms of production and consumption of biofertilizers. Popularization of biofertilizers developed by ICAR is of paramount importance. E DITORIAL Biofertilizers hold key to sustainable agriculture (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 October 2023 Management of calcareous soils of Ushar lands of North Bihar plain Gangopadhyay1, Siladitya Bandyopadhyay1* and Asru Kumar Maitra1 1ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Regional Centre, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 091 Calcareous soils of Ushar lands of North Bihar under Indo-Gangetic plain were characterized for their management towards boosting up livelihood security of the farmers of the region. High pH (> 8.5), high calcareousness (> 35%) and low organic carbon (< 0.5%) along with severe flood hazards and siltation are the major constraints for agricultural production. As per the land suitability assessment, crop diversification is highly promising in young alluvial plains. However, in meander plains and active flood plains (Tall lands), there have been certain physical and chemical limitations for crop choices. Makkhana, organized bund fishery and integrated paddy-fishery are the good replacement for sugarcane in meander plains and Tall lands. Mango and litchi plantation is highly promising in young alluvial plains. Char lands (Diara lands) can be grown for rabi vegetables with appropriate soil and water conservation measures. Impact assessment of soil resource inventory based land use plan with best management practice (BMP) has shown an increase in annual net returns by 93.2% and benefit to cost ratio by 20.6% from the traditional land use system with poor level of management.