 The paste of peach leaves was found very effective in the treatment of maggot wounds. One or two applications were required to kill the Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Fig. 1. Different stages of treatment of maggot wound in dog A. Before treatment B. Application of peach-leaf paste C. Complete healing by day 21 Fig. 2. Different stages of treatment of non-maggot wound in cow A. Non-maggot vulvar wound before treatment B. Application of peach-leaf paste C. Complete healing by day 21 maggots. There was reduction in peripheral swelling, decrease in pain and warmth scores following the treatment and the healing progressed (Table 1). The type and quantity of exudate decreased after 2-3 applications. The wounds appeared dried and the peripheral swelling subsided. There was concomitant decrease in pain and warmth scores. As the healing progressed, the colour of wounds changed from pale red to pink. A majority of the wounds were healed by day 14, whereas 3 wounds required longer period (day 28) for healing. The overall efficacy of the peach-leaf paste in healing the wound was 47.82, 86.95 and 100% on day 7, 14 and 28 respectively (Table 2), which is almost comparable to the efficacy of standard veterinary treatment. The efficacy of peach leaves may be attributable to the presence of phytochemical Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY ingredients such as flavonoids. At GBPUAT, a total of 8 cases of maggoted wound out of total 10 got cured by application of fresh paste of peach leaves twice for 14—21 days. However, by the standard therapy, 90% (9/10) of maggot wound were cured in 14 days. The therapeutic efficacy of peach-leaf paste in non- maggot wound was 70% in group Ila compared with 90% in standard therapy group lib. (Table 3). Identification of maggots: The species of maggots were identified in 3 cases of the wounds at IVRI. The maggots belonged to Callitroga species. The average length of maggots was 10 mm. Ingredient analysis of peach leaves: The peach leaves were subjected to phytochemical testing and the active compounds were identified as flavonoids, alkaloids, steroids and triterpenoids, fixed oils and fats, tannins and phenolic compounds. CONCLUSION The peach leaves were found effective for the treatment of maggot wounds. One or two applications were required to kill or expel the maggots. The paste was applied on the affected part and bandaged. After 2-3 applications the type and quantity of exudates decreased. The wounds appeared dried and the peripheral swelling subsided. Healing of the maggot wounds took longer time where bandaging was not possible. The efficacy of ITK may be attributable to presence of active ingredients such as flavonoids, steroids, fixed oils etc. Its efficacy was comparable to that of standard veterinary treatment.