 Posts of Deputy Directors-General and Assistant Directors-General at Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters, may be filled on transfer/dep- utation basis on the recommendations of a Departmental Selection Committee to be constituted by the President of the Society. The currently vacant posts of Deputy Directors-General and Assistant Direc- tors-General at the Headquarters, at the time of notification of these Bye-laws, shall be filled through transfer/deputation on the recommendations of a De- partmental Selection Committee to be constituted by the Society in consultation with the Government of India (Department of Personnel). II. Scientific and Technical posts in the grade of Rs 325-575 and above up to grade of Rs 1100-1400, or equivalent grades as may be revised from time to time, at the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters. Interview Board i) Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board Chairman ii) Director-General or his representative Member ill) Two or three Advisors Members III. (a) Posts of Directors in various grades at the Institutes. Interview Board i) Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board Chairman ii) Director-General or his representative Member iii) Two to three Advisors Members (b) Other scientific and technical posts in the grade of Rs 700-1250 and above, or equivalent grades as may be revised from time to time (excluding Directors' posts at the Institutes). 51 Interview Board i) Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board Chairman ii) Director or his representative Member ill) Two or three Advisors Members IV. Scientific and Technical posts in the grade of Rs 325-575 and above up to grade Rs 400-950, or equivalent grades as may be revised from time to time, at the Institutes subject to the recommendations of the Institutes' Selection Panels being accepted by the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. Selection Committee i) Two Advisors (One of the Advisors shall act as Chairman). ii) Director or his representative Member V. Scientific and Technical posts in Class III- (a) In the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters : Selection Committee i) Chairman to be nominated by the Vice-President and Director-General Chairman ii) Assistant Director-General Member iii) One outside Expert to be nominated by the Vice-President and Director- General Member (b) At the Institutes-Selection Committee - i) Director or his representative Chairman ii) Two Advisors to be nominated by the Director, at least one of whom will be from outside the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Members (3) (a) In the event of the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board, not being able to attend the Interview Boards, as mentioned in clauses II and III (a) and (b) of this Bye-law, he will nominate an outside Expert as Advisor to act on his behalf as Chairman of the Interview Board.