 This Unit is responsible for distributing important publications like DARE/ICAR Annual Report, ICAR Budget Book, ICAR Reporter, ICAR News and other important publications to all the officers of ICAR Institutes, Project Directors, Co-ordinators, Vice-Chancellors, SAUs, NGOs, Scientists, Extension Workers, Members of Parliament and other important dignitaries regularly. Apart from this, the unit is responsible for taking initiatives for marketing and timely distribution of monthly magazines/journals namely Indian Farming, Kheti, The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences and bi-monthly popular magazines Phal Phool and Indian Horticulture to the subscribers and stakeholders. DKMA could not organize/participate in any exhibition for showcasing ICAR technologies and publications due to COVID19 pandemic during the period April to December 2020. Achieved the revenue of approximately 21 lakh from the sale of publications and e-products during the year April to December 2020. Social media In order to disseminate information in real-time and also the last time, the ICAR website is updated on regular basis, and in total 3,965 pages were updated, and page- views 7,284,515 from more than 200 countries. Knowledge seekers across the globe visited the website. The top five countries visiting the website include India, United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates, and Nepal. On ICAR facebook total 399 posts were published and it has 220,207 followers. ICAR twitter handle https://twitter.com/icarindia has more than 120,970 followers. On an average one tweet is posted every day, there are total 409 tweets. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has video films, animations, lectures/ interviews by dignitaries and eminent scientists, proceedings of national and international events, etc. It has 54,800 subscribers. ICT and E-Governance in ICAR The ICT Roadmap of ICAR was prepared for development and implementation of various software, IT tools, databases and e-Governance software in line of Digital India Mission of the country. This ICT roadmap envisaged short term and long-term ICT/IT activities which is needed for undertaking ICT/IT projects based on disruptive ICT technologies such as Precision Agriculture, Dynamic Decision Support and advisory system, e-governance software using AI, DL, ML, block chain and big data analytical techniques. This will not only help in increasing farmer’s income through increasing agricultural productivity by use of optimum agricultural inputs but also help for smooth functioning of the Council. In this ICT roadmap, five functional groups were created to cater different ICT/IT development and implementation requirement of different databases/software/tools/mobile and Web services. Also, in order to implement this roadmap, a separate IT unit was created in ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. Further, e-Governance Division of ICAR Headquarters was renamed as ICT Unit.