 Š Š Animal should not be allowed to graze in open grazing lands to avoid lightening risk. Vaccinate animals against foot & mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia Š Š Take precautions to avoid ecto parasitic infestation. If fever, shivering, brown coloured urine, off feed etc. are noticed, consult veterinary doctor immediately Š Š Assure increased ventilation in the shed. Š Š In poultry farms, use lime in deep litter system at weekly intervals. Fisheries The pre monsoon showers bring down water pH in brackish water farms. Check pH of water on receiving rains, if required, add liming materials to improve pH. Ongoing Pearl spot seed producers are advised to collect fry stage fishes from ponds and stock in HDPE happa nets (16 mm) till marketing. Cage fish culture farmers may reduce standing stock by selling harvestable fish directly to the consumers. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 189 These advisories are intended to enhance the preparedness for taking up appropriate measures in the event of deficit rainfall situations Lakshadweep Islands Specific Agro Advisories for kharif season Generic Advisory: Š Š Conserve water in surface and sub-surface horizons of soil during rainy season which in turn address drought related issues in coconut and other crops grown in the island. Use natural mulching (locally available farm materials) for conversation of moisture. Homestead gardens: Š Š Drought management in homesteads should be undertaken through husk burial in trenches, mulch with dried coconut leaves in coconut basins. Š Š Plant intercrops like tubers, vegetables, perennial vegetables, medicinal plants, spices and banana to make each homestead as nutritional garden. Vegetables: Š Š Farmers interested for vegetable cultivation can start seedling production through nursery method. Farmers should use good quality seeds in warm and protected place by using seedling trays or seed beds with fertile soil enriched with FYM or compost. Š Š Seeds should be treated with pseudomonas florescence (10g/Kg). Š Š Control of Root Knot Nematode apply Neemcake 1kg Per Plant. Similarly to control Powdery mildew, spray Bordeaux mixture 1% in the affected areas. To control fruit rot soil drenching with Tricoderma 10 g/l can be performed. Coconut: Š Š Farmers have to provide staking to young coconut seedlings as protection from heavy winds. The green manure crops may be sown and should be ploughed in and incorporated in to the soil during August-September. Š Š To conserve moisture farmers are advised to use natural mulching materials near the coconut basin like green or dry leaves at the close during the onset of north east monsoon. Farmers are advised to collect all the bio wastes of the farm and compost it for manure. Š Š Sanitize the field to control Rhinoceros beetle, Crown cleaning and Fill crown with sand 250g +4 naphthalene ball can be administered and effectively hook out the beetle using beetle hook.