 The discipline of Agronomy has no longer remained mere field trials without application of discoveries emanating from the related disciplines of Genetics, Soil Science and Agricultural Chemistry, Plant Biochemistry, etc. The future Agronomy Landscape will face challenges of climate change, transboundary issues, TRIPS and other trade-related barriers, biotic and abiotic stresses, consequences of biotechnology and genetic engineering and increased market demands in terms of quality assurance, customized food crops, global competition, ecosystem services on land and social equities etc. The Agronomy must measure up to these futuristic challenges with well-defined metrics and methodologies for performance. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools and micro-irrigation is in the horizon. This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. ISSN: 0019–4786 Regd. No. 14247/57 Delhi Postal Regd. No. DL(C)-12/1147/2007-2010 Price : ` 30.00 Printed by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, and published by Dr S.K. Malhotra, Project Director (DKMA), on behalf of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012, and printed at M/s Viba Press Pvt. Ltd., C-66/3, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-II, New Delhi 110020. Editor : Ravindra Verma. President of India Inaugurates 2nd Indian Rice Congress at ICAR-NRRI, Cuttack Honourable President of India Shrimati Droupadi Murmu inaugurated the Second Indian Rice Congress (SIRC-2023) on 11th February, 2023 at National Rice Research Institute (NRRI), Cuttack. Prof. Ganeshi Lal, Governor of Odisha and Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India were Guest of Honour on this occasion. Shri Ranendra Pratap Swain, Minister of Agriculture, and Farmers Empowerment, Fisheries & Animal Resources Development, Government of Odisha was the special guest. Dr. Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE) & Director General (DG), Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) welcomed the guests. Director of ICAR-NRRI, Cuttack, Dr. A.K. Nayak and Dr. P.K. Agrawal, ADG (TC) and President, ARRW and Dr. S. Saha, Organizing Secretary, ARRW were present on this occasion. The theme of the Rice Congress is “Transforming Rice Research: Recent Scientific Developments and Global Food Crisis”. Honourable President of India mentioned about contribution of the ICAR in Green Revolution in the country and development of bio-fortified and climate resilient rice varieties. Issues like preservation of traditional rice varieties and women empowerment in agriculture were also addressed by her.