 fimbriata causing mango wilt from soil samples, that enables application of integrated disease management strategy much before the symptom expression in orchards. Emerging insect-pests in litchi: Litchi stink bug (Tessaratoma javanica) and the Flower webber were recorded as emerging insect-pest attaining major pest status of litchi. The other important pests recorded were fruit and shootborer, leaf mite, leaf roller and bark eating caterpillar. Borer complex of litchi was most important as they extensively damaged the developing and matured fruits reducing the yields and marketability. Surveillance of rhinoceros beetle infestation: Developed an algorithm based on object detection approach with an accuracy of 84.3% for surveillance of rhinoceros beetle infestation using unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV or drone). Arecanut kernel decay: Identified ambrosia beetle, Xylosandrus crassiusculus (Motschulsky) (Coleoptera: Curculionidae) and its fungal symbiont Ambrosiella roeperi associated with arecanut kernel decay in Karnataka, India. Mirid management in cocoa: An entomopathogenic fungus isolated from infected H. theivora was identified as M. anisopliae TMBMA1 and found to be effective in mirid management in cocoa. Competitive regulation and biological control of rugose spiralling whitefly: Competitive regulation of rugose spiralling whitefly (RSW) by the Bondar’s nesting whitefly (BNW) during 2021 was observed. The molecular identity of the entomopathogenic fungus Simplicillium lanosoniveum was confirmed by multilocus sequence typing. Conservation biological control using the aphelinid parasitoid, Encarsia guadeloupae, neuropteran predators Apertochrysa sp. coccinellid lady beetles and the sooty mould scavenger beetle, Leiochrinus nilgirianus reduced the invasive potential of rugose spiralling whitefly (Aleurodicus rugioperculatus) on coconut. Ecosystem vitality and ecological integrity are restored with an economic benefit of worth 1760 crore. Report of incidence of Fusarium wilt disease, tropical race 4 (Foc TR4) in banana in West Bengal: Incidence of Fusarium wilt disease in banana cv. Grand Naine was observed in Nadia District of West Bengal. Wilt incidence was from 10-50%. Based on vegetative compatibility group analysis and molecular analysis, the race was confirmed as tropical race 4 (Foc TR4). Utilization of citrus microbiome in rejuvenating Khasi Mandarin plants affected by important citrus diseases: Samples collected from different parts of northeast India (Khamanpathar, Motapung, Tinsukia and Tripura) were examined for detection of HLB (Huanglongbing) by conventional and real time PCR showed the presence of HLB in these citrus regions. As many, 195 microbial cultures (62 endophytes; 68 rhizobacteria) (42 endophytes; 23 rhizobacteria) were isolated from healthy and infected Khasi mandarin orchards, respectively. Of them, 13 isolates showed antagonism against Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105 (a surrogate microbe to CLas).