 Role of Village Institutions in Gender Empowerment Role of social, political, religious and educational Institutions is very much important in gender empowerment. There were many social taboos, conservative mindsets and gender stereotypes role prevailing throughout the country. There are many social and economic institution supports for economic empowerment of women in particular exists at village level. According to Gandhiji, an ideal Indian village can be constructed with cottages having sufficient light, ventilation and sanitation facilities within reach of the people. There should be enough space for rearing domestic animals. There should be common meeting place, common grazing place for cattle, a co-operative dairy, primary and secondary schools in which people can access to basic facilities and have a village Panchayat for resolving their personal and social disputes. Villagers may able to produce their own food grains, vegetables and fruits and weave khadi 153 to fulfill amenities. This was the idea of a model village proposed by Gandhiji. Home is the primary social institution gives many lessons and moral values to prosper in the society. Gradually this can be extended from home to village level for overall empowerment of village women in several areas. 4.1. Role of Self-Help Groups Women led Self Help Groups (SHGs) at village is a micro level institution plays significant role in income generation by women to reduce poverty. The women in rural areas go together with 10-20 members and form different SHGs in a village, which helped them to bring a change in the mindset of the people who are very conservative and illiterate. The women mostly generate fund by contributing their own and do some income generating activities at village level. These income-generating activities include post harvest and value addition of agro produces, beekeeping, mushroom cultivation and making handicrafts. These have increased the awareness of SHGs members and defend themselves from the exploitation by middlemen. It gives a feeling of solidarity. 4.2. Entrepreneurship Development among village women Entrepreneurship is an emerging concept, perceives as challenging by women and requires competence to take appropriated decisions and responsibilities. Stepping into entrepreneurship development is dynamic could bring the preferred change in attitude of rural women through income generation, socio personal development and support for others employment. Women can initiate and channelize production possibilities with the help of other group members at their locale. They are more capable to overcome the negative impact of social pressure and gender biasness prevailing against them by creating their group identity and dynamic activities. Women in a group feel more confident in approaching bank or any Government departments for assistance under different schemes. 5.