 Approximately 50-100 ml kosam oil is applied on the hooves and inside the infected mouth, food and water is to be stopped strictly for 1 to 2 hrs. Due to this treatment about 70% recovery can be achieved within 2-3 days. However, it takes about one week for getting complete relief (Ghodimal). Sonubhai (1992) 45 Cure for FMD To cure an animal of foot and mouth disease, a paste of the leaves of sadad (Terminalia crenulata) is made and applied on the affected area. This cures the animal (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Damor (1999) 46 Leaf extract of Aristolochia bracteolate and Annona squamosa for treatment of foot and mouth disease Fresh leaves of kidamari (Aaristolochia bracteolate) and sitaphal (Annona squamosa) are taken in equal proportion and crushed together to make semi-liquid paste. This paste is applied to the infected hooves, and reportedly cures the disease within three days. There are no-ill side-effects.This practice has been used for years (The custard apple leaves contains hydrocyanide (HCN) which might be toxic for the virus) (Krishnapuri, Talaja). Somabhai (1993) 47 Hot sand and Azadirachta indica for treatment of foot mouth disease The infected animal is taken to a riverbed and forced to walk on hot sand. Then a decoction of and neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves is poured on to the hooves. A piece of cotton cloth is sometimes placed over the trated part to reduce evaporation of the neem extract (Dugsar, Muli). Bhaguanbhai (1993) 192 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 48 Fruits of Diospyros cordifolia for control of foot and mouth disease People collect 2-3 fruits of dheka (Diospyros cordifolia) tree and keep it in warm ash of Chulah to heat it. Hot fruits are crushed and allowed to cool slightly. Thereafter, it is pasted on the infected hooves of the animal. This practice is followed for 3-4 days, i.e. till the animal recovered. Diospyros cordifolia is a perennial bushy shrub which bears spine. Unripe fruit has green colour which turns into yellow at ripening stage and slowly becomes black at post- ripening stage. It bears flowers in summer season and fruits in early monsoon (June-July) season. Keshabhai (1992) 49 Intestinal parasites It is believed that because of excessive feeding, very young calves get infected with an internal parasite called karamiya. The infected calf stops eating and if not treated promptly, it may die within 10-15 days. The following two treatments are given to the infected calf. (a) Buttermilk and salt: Approximately 50 g of salt is dissolved in 500 ml of buttermilk and given to the calf to get it rid of intestinal parasites. A regular dose of the treatment for a week cures the calf. This practice has been in use for ages without any modification. It is very widely used in this region. (b) 'Rati Bhindi' or 'sesame': To expel intestinal worms, calves are fed with leaves of 'rati bhindi' or sesame.