 SUMMARY One Health approach can counteract the weakness of black-box approaches by bringing health experts together with specialists in behavioural sciences, ecology, wildlife, and vector populations, climate, geographic information systems, anthropology, mathematical modelling, toxicology, veterinary medicine, and public health to help to develop visualization tools that better inform the public about hazards. The multi-sectoral cooperation in the surveillance and control of emerging infectious diseases is challenging to achieve, due to the significant gap between the fields of animal and human health. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ddgas@icar.nic.in Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Farming 25 June 2023 Soil carbon management for sustainable food system Vinod Kumar Singh, Sumanta Kundu* and J Naveen ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 The importance of soil organic carbon (SOC) in food, nutrition and climate security is undeniable. Increasing SOC stocks helps in mitigating the increasing atmospheric carbon dioxide (CO2) concentration; besides improving the soil quality attributes such as stability of aggregates, soil fertility, and nutrient cycling etc. Use of manure, judicious fertilizer application, reduce/no tillage, utilization of crop residues, integrated nutrient management, application of biochar, use of cover crops, switch from single cropping to intercropping, introducing pulse crops in cropping systems, eliminating summer fallow periods are more or less effective for increasing C sequestration. Several government policies and programmes are being initiated to promote soil health and achieving sustainable development goals (SDGs), G20 commitments, land degradation neutrality, net zero emission and sustainable food systems. Keywords: Crop residues, Land degradation, Soil carbon stock, Soil health A sustainable food system is one that provides food and nutritional security for all ensuring the economic, social and environmental bases to generate food security and nutrition for future generation.