 Extension systems: Grass-root institution and capacity building: Training programmes on women leadership and a review workshop on “Capacity needs assessment of extension and advisory service providers in Odisha” were conducted. A producer group involving 1,031 women farmers was developed for marketing of aromatic rice. AICRP on Home Science The AICRP on Home Science focused on gender mainstreaming and empowerment of rural women, drudgery assessment and mitigation, nutritional security and dietary approaches for addressing non communicable diseases, parenting and reproductive health, sustainable livelihood security of rural families through locally available natural resources and capacity building of agrarian families to adopt different IFS models for facing climate related issues and digitization of knowledge products for rural families. Foods (362) from different major food groups having low glycemic index (GI) were documented, and a database on 135 region specific low glycemic index foods for the management of diabetes was prepared. Recipes (37) of traditional products were modified towards low glycemic index by incorporation of region specific low glycemic index plant foods. The developed products were nutritionally and economically evaluated. The highest overall acceptability was obtained in the products prepared by TNAU centre, i.e. Kavuni rice puttu (8.80), kodo millet based chapathi (8.80), kodo millet based puttu (8.70) followed by AAU centre and PJTSAU centre, i.e. multigrain khichidi (8.60) and rice (8.60), respectively. Formulation of high fibre multigrain mix from locally available cereals, millets, pulses and other functional food ingredients (FFIs) for management of over-nutrition and formulation of nutrient dense multigrain mix from locally available cereals, millets, pulses and other FFIs for management of under-nutrition among farm women of the adopted villages were developed. These products were nutritionally analyzed along with sensory and economic evaluation. The drudgery perceived by women farmers in rice, maize, vegetables based production system were characterized. In vegetable cultivation, the highest workload score was given to cutting/ plucking of vegetables (4.6). Resource centres for training on gender friendly drudgery reducing technologies were established in project adopted villages. For food processing units, ergonomically designed low working table, storage shelves and portable trolley for the workers were designed and developed. Farm Women Knowledge Groups were promoted to assess the use of ICT in agriculture and allied sectors. Majority (nearly 67%) of respondents irrespective of gender had favourable attitude towards ICT, and more than 70% respondents irrespective of gender perceived that ICT had a positive effect in enhancing knowledge however, the respondents were not aware about KIOSKs, AGRINET, Kisan Mobile Sandesh, and Village Information Centre.