 A number of products like green chilli powder, dehydrated okra, bitter gourd chips, instant bottle gourd kheer mix, moringa soup and moringa drink have been developed at ICAR-IIVR. These technologies have commercial applications and can be utilized for reducing the post-harvest food losses and wastage. There is need to increase focus towards secondary agriculture for increasing employment, increased incomes and reduce losses. It will act as a boost to add value to product, generate employment and promote agro-start ups. Now a days, pre-packaged fresh-cut vegetable industry is on the rise due to the inclination of consumers towards self-preparation of healthy food. Minimally processed vegetables are highly susceptible to attacks by pathogenic micro-organisms due to increased surface area, tissue injury, leachate loss and heightened metabolic rates. It is difficult to store fresh-cut or minimally processed vegetables because of rapid deterioration in quality, appearance, leaching losses, change in colour and rapid attacks of pathogenic micro-organisms. The packaging technique, storage temperature and relative humidity should be carefully selected. The genotype selection is possibly the most important variable determining overall quality of minimal processed vegetables. Different ways like use of texture improvers, anti-browning and antimicrobial agents, and mild heat treatment coupled with modified atmospheric storage can be used for increasing the storability beyond 1-2 days at supermarket conditions. It is a low energy consuming industry suitable for urban and peri-urban areas due to the high demand of fresh cut products in local regions. Convenience based ready-to-eat food has a definite edge over other products. It has added advantage in today’s busy times when convenience is demanded by all consumers while looking for food products with added health benefits. During present times, the preparation of many traditional foods is deemed as difficult due to being cumbersome and taking time for preparation. One of the products developed at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi is instant bottle gourd kheer mix. It is a dessert product which can be easily prepared without any hassle in 2 minutes. This product is not only liked due to its sweet taste, but also the nutritional and functional characteristics obtained from vegetable based desserts. Nevertheless, there are some serious challenges which will come along during processing. Important among them are lack of genotypes possessing processable traits, lack of basic mechanization and storage infra-structure, high temperatures all the year round in most parts of the country and cold chain management. The high base investment, operational cost, maintenance difficulties and marketing challenges are also few deterrent for the new entrants to the food processing sector.