1 The standard of the journal for the purpose of grants will be adjudged on the basis of NAAS rating of the journal and will be placed in any of the three categories viz. A, B and C. The quantum of assistance will be decided according to the category as mentioned earlier. The journals which do not fall even in ’C’ category, will not be given assistance. 7.1.2 Based on evaluation criteria, the journal will be placed in any of the three categories viz. A, B and C and the quantum of assistance will be provided according to the category. The journals which do not fall even in ’C’ category, will not be given assistance 7.1.3 The standard of the journals receiving assistance from the Council will be reviewed periodically based on NAAS Rating. The journals (B and C category) which show significant improvement may be upgraded, while those which show consistently marked deterioration and fail to improve the quality may be downgraded /phased out. 7.2 For holding National/International Symposium/Seminar/Conference 7.2.1 Does the theme have a distinct relevance to the ICAR mandate? It may be specified. 7.2.2 What is the scientific structure of the theme and also details of resource persons, number of participants (Indian and Foreign), etc.? 7.2.3 Has any attempt been made by any other organization in the past to address this issue? If so, what has been the tangible outcome and how will the proposed theme strengthen further the programme? 7.2.4 What is the professional standing and track record of the proposing body? 7.2.5 Has the proposing body organized any such event in the past? If so, the details of scientific programme, resource persons (Indian and foreigners), outcome of the programme, expenditure incurred, benefit(s) accrued to science, country, region or world, etc. 7.2.6 How is expected outcome aimed at tackling national, regional and global issues? 7.2.7 Total estimated expenditure? Quantum of support requested from ICAR and other agencies/sources etc. 8. Processing of the application in ICAR 8.1 All the applications which are complete, will be processed on file by the Technical Coordination Section of ICAR. Comments of concerned Subject Matter Division will be obtained as regards technical suitability in view of national perspective and importance of the theme of the proposed seminar/symposium/conference, and about the suitability with regard to quality of journals which were not included in the ICAR existing list of journals eligible to receive financial assistance for publication, and the amount of grant, in case recommended, for ICAR’s financial support. Such new journals will then be placed before a sub-committee for further evaluation of their quality. Later, the applications with the recommendations of the SMDs/Sub- Committee will be placed for consideration of the ICAR Standing Committee. Approval of the DG, ICAR will be sought on file on the recommendations of the ICAR Standing Committee. 8.