 • 97% custom hiring entrepreneurs said that they got wide exposure to advanced agricultural machinery during the training at ICAR-CIAE which has been immensely helpful to them in selection of quality machines for their enterprise and also for future planning and expansion • As far as knowledge on optimal operation and maintenance of machinery is concerned, 97% said that because of the practical knowledge and tips they got during the training, they have been able to minimize the operational expenses. • 82% entrepreneurs also agreed that they learned about the further prospects in the field of custom hiring so as to maximize the annual use of machinery being owned by them and increase the profitability. • 75% entrepreneurs are willing to receive support and guidance from ICAR-CIAE, in future too on technical aspects. • 60% entrepreneurs realized that the training at ICAR-CIAE has also been helpful for them in developing linkages and collaboration. Table 1. Profitability from CHC. Particulars Annual No. of Area Profit Families Covered- (` Lakh) Served Annual (ha) Average 2.50 103 153.2 Min.* 0.40 6 20.0 Max. 7.00 400 414.0 *Exceptional cases. Indian Farming January 2020 21 to ensure the availability of complete package of farm machines to the small farmers. About 32% farmers availing the facility are those who have a loan holding of 1-2 ha only. Land holding wise distribution of farmers availing custom hiring services is tabulated below in Table 2. Client farmers’ opinion about benefits: The opinion of farmers was collected about the following: • Increase in production • Saving in input • Saving in time • Reduction in losses • Reduction in cost of production Data collected from client farmers during survey have been analysed and tabulated in Table 3. Due to increased mechanization level and easy availability of improved machinery through custom hiring entrepreneurship, even small farmers are now getting encouraged to replace their traditional and time consuming farming practices with improved and mechanized protocols. Outcome Until so far, the growth of these custom hiring centres has not only contributed in increasing farm productivity but also in improving rural employment generation. It is raising the self-esteem of the youths associated with it and discouraging the rural migration as well. On the basis of a survey of farmers hiring various machines, major impact of “Custom Hiring Entrepreneurship Development” scheme on farmers and farming practices in Madhya Pradesh are as following: Entrepreneurship The entrepreneurs belonged to the age group of 22-40 years with graduates in any discipline as educational qualification. The investment made on custom hiring centre was ranged from 10 to 25 lakhs, inclusive of 40 to 50% subsidy (maximum ` 10 lakh) provided as profit of ` 2.51 lakhs from the business by serving 103 customers per year covering an area of 153.2 hectare per annum.