 The treated yarn does not exhibit any changes in its properties on wetting in water. Bio-chemical Scouring Technique for Cotton and Blends In this method, employing a mixed microflora, the fabric was subjected to an anaerobic treatment at the room temperature, followed by boiling in the mild alkali. While the properties of bleached and dyed fabrics were at a par with the conventionally processed ones, but their colour value was found higher. This process can be easily coupled to existing Hand-Processing Unit, and can result in reduction of pollution load by 25% and lead to energy saving of 30%. Plasma Treatment for Improving Cotton Fabric Dyeability Plasma treatment can substitute either fully or partially the conventional wet chemical process used to prepare grey-cotton fabric for dyeing. Grey and bleached fabrics indicated increased absorbency by about 68–75%; the longer was the plasma treatment time, the better was the absorbency, and absorbency values were on a par with those of bleached fabric, normally used for dyeing. JUTE TECHNOLOGY Simultaneous Alkali Treatment and Bleaching of Jute Goods The novelty of the present method lies in achieving multiple advantages by prior alkali treatment and then bleaching in alkaline conditions. The pretreatment with alkali in controlled way improves softness and dye uptake of the product. There is no need to drain alkali, and the softened material may be bleached in the same bath, without additional heating to get satisfactory whiteness and brightness index. Thus in this process not only the effluent disposal problem has been overcome to a LIPASE FROM CANDIDA CYLINDRACEA FOR WAX REMOVAL IN GREY-COTTON FABRICS Candida cylindracea lipase and the commercial lipase could remove sufficient wax in the moderate conditions of treatment. The weight loss in enzyme- treated fabric samples was lesser than chemically scoured fabric. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 145 significant extent but consumption of energy for bleaching can also be avoided. This single-bath processed material can then be conveniently dyed with reactive dyes to get better dye uptake and colour yield. With Procion Red M8B and Remazol yellow FG dyes, colour yield could be improved by 18% and 42%. Microwave-induced Biomethanation of Jute Waste Methanosarcina barkeri (DSM 804) is a methanogenic and strictly anaerobic bacteria, capable of accelerating biogas production from cellulosic wastes. Methane content of biogas can be improved further by inducing bacteria with microwave, and it was established that irradiation of bacteria with a microwave of 31.5 GHz frequency of 10 dbm power for 2 hours could boost methane content of gas up to 76%, as against 55% achieved with the use of non-induced bacteria. LAC TECHNOLOGY Quality Brood and Sticklac Production on Ber A sustainable technology has been developed for good quality brood and sticklac production under three-coupe system. Two coupes consisted of kusum plants and one of ber.