 The Agrlnnovate India Limited is an extended independent commercial outfit, which is expected to capitalize on the vast network of the ICAR institutes where the researchers are engaged in their mission to innovate and harness science to provide citizens access to food, nutrition, livelihood and income security. Indian Council of Agricultural Research The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Formerly known as the Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on 16 July 1929 as a registered society under the Societies Registration Act, 1860 on the recommendations of the Royal Commission of Agriculture. It was reorganized in 1965 and again in 1973, with its Headquarters located in Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi, with support facilities in Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan 1 and 2 and NASC Complex, Pusa, New Delhi. The Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the President of ICAR. The Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR is the Director General, who also functions as Secretary, Department of Agriculture Research and Education, Government of India. The General Body of the ICAR Society, headed by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the supreme authority of the ICAR. Its members include; Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of the various state governments, Members of Parliaments and the representatives from industry, research institutes, scientific organizations and farming community. The Governing Body headed by the community Director General, who is also the Secretary, DARE is the chief executive and decision making authority of the ICAR. The Governing Body consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationist, public representatives and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. In scientific matters, the Director General is assisted by 8 Deputy Directors General, one each in (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticulture Science, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Animal Science, (v) Agricultural Engineering, (vi) Fisheries Science, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension, who are also assisted by Assistant Directors General, and are the Heads of their Subject Matter Division (SMDs) for the entire country. SMDs are responsible for extending all technical and financial guidance and support to the research Institutes, National Research Centres and the Project Directorates within their respective Divisions.