 The Land Record Management System (LRMS) keeps the online record as total land area, land utilization details (farm area, research area, area under building, area under sports ground/park/green area, forest area, vacant land), Kisan Sarathi Some important features of this software are as follows: • ARMS is a workflow-based system that can be accessed online (https://arms.icar.gov.in) using ICAR domain Email id credentials. • The system will be used for evaluation, monitoring and management of scientific research based on the information submitted by scientists. Scientists will enter the information into the system only once, which would save the scientists’ time to provide information many times for different requirements. • Significant Achievements under broad categories (Research, Capacity Building, Publication and Peer Recognition) need to be entered by the scientist on regular basis. The information submitted by scientist is to be duly verified by Reporting Officer, Nodal Officer and Reviewing Officer. • System will have provision to provide various information in report formats (Monthly progress report of Division/Institute/SMD/Annual report material of Institute). • For more details, one can refer to the user manual (https://arms.icar.gov.in/Files/arms Manual_ new.pdf) of the system. User can share the feedback using the inbuilt feedback proforma. Snapshot of virtual training programme on implementation of ICAR-ARMS Screenshot of home page of ICAR-ARMS ownership description as per revenue record, date of possession as per revenue record, date of acquisition, free hold land/leased hold, lease period, start date for lease, date of renewal of lease etc. The requisite data is submitted by Institutes and the software generate advisory about expiry of lease (within one year). Similarly, advisory is also generated for updating the status of dispute/ court cases on quarterly period and sent to the Director of the institute, Administrate Head (Head of Office) and Director (Works). K 14. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) are district level multidisciplinary scientific institutions for frontline extension mandated with technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development under different farming situations across the country. In all, 5 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs to 729 in the country during the reported year. Besides lab to land activities for outreach, important programmes such as Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and awareness creation on government schemes, etc.