 The efficacy of these mineral fertilizers was tested on crops and gave comparable yield with conventional P (Di-ammonium phosphate) and K (Muriate of Potash) fertilizers. yy Quantification of impact of CA on soil health, weed & pest dynamics, input use efficiency, carbon sequestration and greenhouse gas emissions has been completed. yy Standardized a Horti–silviculture system of Dragon fruit + Melia dubia along with in situ soil moisture conservation measures for semi- arid region of Gujarat affected by soil erosion caused by Mahi River. 8. Animal Productivity and Health India has one of the largest livestock populations in the world and, therefore, animal sector has enormous potential to contribute on food, nutrition and livelihood security. At ICAR, research activities on animal science are mainly oriented towards conserving indigenous livestock germplasm, faster multiplication of superior germplasm, increasing overall livestock productivity by using tools from frontier sciences, and enhancement of nutrient bioavailability of crop residues and other feed/fodder sources. Major achievements towards improving animal productivity and health are briefly described below: yy Registered 2 buffalo breeds - Dharwadi of Karnatka and Manda of Odisha and characterized 8 native populations of Cattle, Buffalo and Dog. Dharwadi bull Manda bull 16 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 yy Cryopreserved 21180 semen doses and 970 vials of somatic cells of 7 native breeds. yy Launched Country-wide “Mission towards Zero Non-descript Animal Genetic Resources” and organized 10 State Interface meetings. yy 132812 doses of frozen semen of cattle- Gir, Sahiwal, Kankrej and Frieswal cattle were produced. yy Produced Calves from semen of cloned bulls: Swarn and Rajat. yy Four DNA Chips developed & patents filed: MD Chip of camel, LD chip of riverine buffalo, HD chip of swamp buffalo, LD chip of Indigenous cattle. yy A total of 12,19,423 unit germplasm of livestock and poultry species were supplied. yy Developed feed supplement (Harit Dhara) that reduces enteric methane (per day) up to 17-20 % in ruminants. yy Developed technology for CARI-multigrain egg biscuits, CARI-low sugar egg Biscuit, Egg Kulfi and Egg-rabri malai. yy Developed a technology of reduced–fat milk paneer. yy Established Portable Meat Production and Retailing Facility for sheep and goats. Calves Produced from Semen of Cloned Bulls namely Swarn and Rajat (August-December 2021 Clone of a High-Ranking Progeny-Tested Buffalo Bull Cloned Bull Produced from Somatic Cell Isolated from Fresh Seminal Plasma Cloning of Elite Male Germplasm : Hope for Future Sustainable Milk Production SWARN 18.03.2013 RAJAT 27.07.2014 17 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 yy Developed strip test for mastitis detection in milk samples, kits for detection of antibiotic residues in aqua-products. yy One herbal antimicrobial disinfectant for food applications was developed and a patent application filed.