 This solvent extract exhibited the highest antioxidant activity with IC50 of 94.02 μg/mL for distilled O. sanctum and 89.48 μg/mL for distilled O. basilicum. After extraction of bioactive compounds, the exhausted biomasses were pyrolyzed to form biochar. The porous surface morphology of biochar as observed through scanning electron microscopic image indicated the high surface area of biochar that provide support to soil microbiota, reduce the nutrient loss from soil, and act as potential soil amendment. Commercial potential: With the help of this technology, commercial production of biochar is possible utilizing the distillation waste biomass. As complete recycling of waste material is carried out through this process, this can be economically viable in terms of its commercialization. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Rohan Sarkar (Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: rohan.sarkar@icar.gov.in Proven Technology Flowers always make people better, happier, and more helpful; they are sunshine, food and medicine for the soul. – Luther Burbank September–October 2023 63 Process for authentication of Tinospora cordifolia based herbal supplements Tinospora cordifolia based herbal supplements have recently gained prime importance due to their immunomodulatory and anti-viral effects. But mislabelling or diluting the herbal supplements for profit may harm public health. That’s why validating the label claim/authenticity of the supplements available in markets is crucial. This study involves on how high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS)- based metabolomics and chemometrics approach can be useful to distinguish Tinospora cordifolia from two other closely related species, i.e. T. crispa and T. sinensis. Proven Technology Rohan Sarkar*, Kaushik Banerjee and Niladri Chatterjee Objective: To develop a process for discriminating closely related Tinospora species for authentication of different Tinospora based herbal supplements. Authentic samples of T. cordifolia, T. crispa and T. cordifolia stem were obtained from different parts of India. The chromatographic condition for sample extract was optimized in HRMS. The generated raw data files were processed using UNIFI software (version 1.7, Waters Corporation) that enabled automatic metabolite identification through an in-house database. The Orthogonal Partial Least Square Discriminant Analysis (OPLS-DA) and PLS-DA based chemometric models were developed to confirm the species identity of Tinospora samples. Pair-wise OPLS-DA classification models of T. cordifolia against T. crispa, and T. sinensis were fitted. The corresponding S-plots and variable importance in projection (VIP) scores identified prominent markers that contributed the most to Tinospora species discrimination. Authenticity prediction of the developed models was carried out in test sets as well as market samples.