 It is increasingly recognized for its potential role in fuel, carbon sequestration, soil amendments and reducing greenhouse gas emissions. It is a stable carbon rich solid that can be used to lock carbon in the soil. Bio-char is of increasing interest because of concerns about climate change caused by emissions of carbon dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHG). Biomass feedstock and the processing conditions are the main factors determining quality of charred material. The major constituents of the charred material are organic matter, volatile matter, mineral matter (ash), and moisture. The use of bio-char as soil amendment is proposed as an approach to mitigate man-induced climate change along with improving soil productivity. In order to sequester carbon, a material must have long residence time and should be resistant to chemical processes such as oxidation to CO2 or reduction to methane. It has been suggested by many researchers that the use of bio-char as soil amendment meets the above requirements, since the biomass is protected from further oxidation from the material that would otherwise have degraded to release CO2 into the atmosphere. A crop residue based electricity generation plant 113 3.2. Bio-gas technology For management of animal excreta in rural sector, a systematic approach is still lacking to make them self-reliant and provide a sustainable source of income generation. Besides many other resources, bio-gas technology could be one of the important aspects to support the livelihood of the people in rural areas. The method to generate bio-gas includes anaerobic digestion of organic wastes as feedstock in a digester. This technology is well proven and has the ability to fulfill cooking, electricity and thermal needs. This clean and green technology will also help in satisfying Gandhiji’s Swachh Bharat concept and livelihood support using Swadesi technology. The bio-gas technology has already played vital role in managing the animal excreta in rural India. The animal excreta can be digested anaerobically to produce bio-gas using different types of biogas plants. At present KVIC and Janata type plants are two most popular and basic designs. Both are good designs and have been installed in lakhs in rural India. The bio-gas or gobar gas generated is a good fuel gas which can be used for rural kitchen as clean fuel for cooking. The digested slurry coming out of the plant is a good organic fertilizer and be directly applied into the agricultural fields. The digested slurry can be dried and the dried portion becomes good and valuable garden fertilizer whereas the liquid fraction is recycled in bio-gas plants. The bio-gas can also be used for illumination using mental- burner and electricity generation using alternator. The requirement of bio-gas for powering a 60 W bulb is 0.13 m3 hr-1. For electricity generation, bio- gas can operate a dual fuel engine to replace up to 80% of diesel-oil in diesel genset. 3.3.