 Tubers are readily infected in soil by rain borne spores from blighted foliage. Initially the tubers show a shallow, reddish brown dry rot that spreads irregularly from the surface through the flesh. (Rusty brown discolouration of the flesh is the typical symptom). Initially the infected tubers are hard but associated secondary pathogens may set in soft rot symptoms. Generally, late blight appears on lower most leaves Potato late blight and its management Late blight caused by Phytophthora infestans, an oomycete pathogen that was responsible for infamous Irish potato famine, has historically been an important disease of potatoes and tomatoes worldwide. It cuts global potato production by around 15%. The disease has become a major biotic factor in limiting potato production across the country including the plains and plateau. This article is aimed at educating the Government functionaries and the farmers about the late blight disease and its management. Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Sanjeev Sharma, Mehi Lal and Sundaresha Sidappa of the plant which goes unnoticed, particularly if the disease appears after closure of crop canopy. Slowly, the disease spreads to the middle and then upper leaves. It is only then that it gets noticed by the farmers. But it is too late to manage the disease at this late stage. Therefore, farmers are advised to inspect their crop daily and verify the symptoms as described above. Initially, only a few foci measuring 1-2 meters are visible. Subsequently, the disease spreads faster and the entire crop gets killed as if burnt by fire. Identification and confirmation test: Visit the field early morning and collect the leaves showing brown lesions and turn them upside down. If a white cottony growth is visible on the lower surface, then the disease is confirmed to be late blight. Many a time white cottony growth is not visible due to low relative humidity and exposure to sunlight. In such situations, the infected leaves may be collected and kept in any small utensil lined with moist cotton. The utensil may be covered and kept overnight. If white cottony growth appears on the leaves, the disease is confirmed to be late blight. Primary source of infection: The infected seed tubers carrying late blight infection serve as primary source of the disease. The P. infestans spores get washed down from the infected plant parts to the soil/exposed tubers by rain/dew drops. The spores germinate and infect the exposed tubers. Under high disease pressure, especially under rainy conditions, the tuber infection goes very high. Although, some of the infected tubers Late blight Indian Horticulture 32 Late blight symptoms (a) Foliar blight on upper surface, (b) On lower surface, (c) On stem, (d) On tubers blight infected tubers can also be done at the time of planting. The late blight symptoms are easy to be identified in cut-pieces where bronzing of the flesh can be seen easily.