 After filling the grain in the container, straw is spread over the top and it is sealed with mud. The farmers of Alangudi village are following this practice since 15 years. Keywords: thombai, rice, paddy straw, varagu straw Shri S. Anbarasan Alangudi Karambakuddy, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 302  2463 Pre-fumigation of paddy storage room with sambrani This technology is in practice in Gooty in Ananatapur district of Andhra Pradesh. The storage room is fumigated with sambrani before storing the paddy grains. Sambrani is a source of benzoic acid and it is a fumigant that controls diseases and pathogens. It is an eco-friendly and a low cost practice. Keywords: store room, fumigation, paddy, sambrani, benzoic acid Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhra Pradesh) 515 701 2451 Srorage of paddy seeds by using ash and neem leaves Construction of ramda: The silt from the base of tank is taken. The silt is dried, ground finely and a paste is prepared by mixing approximate quantity of water. In 10 kg paste about 1 kg wheat straw (fine) is kneaded. First, four legs are prepared. The dimension of each leg is 4''x 8''x 6'' (thickness x length x height). The number of legs may be four or six. The paste is used to make ramda, which is cylindrical in shape with 3' diameter and 5' height and the thickness of the wall is 4''. The structure while making is simultaneously sun dried. It is kept away from hot sunlight to avoid cracks. A lid of 3' diameter is constructed separately with a projected structure for lifting. The ramda and the lid are dried separately. Afterwards the inner wall of the ramda and the lid are white-washed and dried. Four quintals grain can be stored in ramda. An outlet is constructed near the bottom of the ramda to take out grains. Method of storage: The ash of fireplace (chulha) is taken and pebbles of burnt coal are separated. Neem leaves are dried well after plucking. For 1 quintal rice grain, ½ kg ash and ½ kg dried leaves of neem are required. Rice grains are dried well in sunlight and then ash and neem leaves are mixed. This mixture is filled in ramda. If ramda is filled upto full capacity, it is good for storage purpose. After filling, about ½ kg ash and ½ kg dried neem leaves are again spread on the top. Over it, a thick cloth is spread. The lid is then kept on the ramda and the space between ramda and lid Dr Tungveer Singh D-37, Medical College Campus, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) 250 004  is filled by plastering with mud paste and it is made airtight. The stored grain may be preserved upto 1 year. Neem leaves have insectidal, anti-feedant and repellent properties and ash has crystalline property. Other grains may also be preserved in ramda. Keywords: ash, neem leaves, ramda, insecticidal, anti-feedant, repellent, crystalline 2462 Storage of paddy seeds by using mahua Seed coat of mahua (Madhuca latifolia) is used for storage of paddy seeds.