 The average size of the bruised straw was 18 mm, which was 16% higher than the average straw size obtained from Harambha thresher (16 mm) and 19% lower compared to straw obtained from existing commercial straw combine (22.5 mm). The average dust concentration in developed machine, Harambha thresher and commercial straw combine, were 6.70, 5.40 and 11.25%, respectively. Trimming mechanism type banana sucker pairing equipment: At present sucker paring is done manually and it requires more labour and tedious operation. To eliminate human drudgery the sucker pairing device with trimming mechanism was developed. The equipment consisting of the holder on which the banana sucker to be trimmed is placed. The spring loaded holder from the top, gives the grip on the sucker to be trimmed and it can be locked in the required position. The holder is rotated with the help of 1 HP motor at the required speed. The trimming knife is placed at the required position so that the banana sucker placed on the rotating holder is trimmed to the desired shape to get the paired banana sucker ready for planting. Dust separation system for wheat straw combine: Wheat straw harvested by commercial straw combines contains undesirable materials like soil and other foreign materials which may lower feed intake, disrupt digestion and may have adverse effect on animal health. Dust separation system was developed for wheat straw combine to reduce the soil entrainment into the bruising MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 90 An additional knife is mounted on the working platform, which can be used to cut the bottom roots before placing it on the holder for trimming. The equipment is best suited for large size suckers. The capacity of the equipment is about 120–150 suckers/h. Banana pseudostem injector: It consists of chemical tank, peristaltic pump, control unit with non-return valve and injector. The peristaltic pump is attached to pump the liquid from chemical tank to injection system. The control unit is attached with electronic embedded system to control chemical quantity and depth of injection by 8 mm I/P and O/P Screw Variable valve. The non-return valve (¼ thread, one way valve) is attached with control unit to restrict the chemical back flow to the injector after injection. Quantity of liquid injected is 2–4 ml/tree ml, coverage 140–150 trees/h, spillage percentage and injector efficiency was recorded as 2% and 95%, respectively. Cashew apple slicer: Two models of cashew apple slicer were developed. Multiblade type cashew apple slicer: The multiblade type cashew apple slicer consists of nine blades of 165 mm diameter coupled to 1 HP motor. Motor was coupled to a variable speed drive wherein the speed of the cutting blade could be controlled. The gap between the two blades was kept at 2 mm so that the output of 2 mm is obtained. There is an ejector mechanism kept on the rear end side of multi blade, in the cashew apple slicer.