 Information, Communication and Publicity Service The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture works for swift, effectual and cost effective delivery of useful information for enhancing effectiveness and sustainability of agricultural practices followed by stakeholders in the agricultural sector. The Directorate is adopting modern methods of print and electronic mode to showcase the technologies, policies and other activities of ICAR. Directorate also designs, maintains, and updates ICAR website and network connectivity across ICAR institutes and KVKs alongwith Public relation and publicity support to the council and its constituent managing institutes across the country. DKMA is part of the showcasing of impact analysis of the Farmers FIRST project through print as well as social media. Knowledge and information products The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences the flagship monthly research journals of the Council, have been put in the open access mode (hhtp://epubs.icar.org.in/ ejournal). The in-house journals like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also made available for wider global reach on ICAR website. Special issues of the Indian Farming were brought out on Success Stories of Farmer FIRST (May 2019, June 2019). The three special issues of Indian Horticulture were on Success Stories of Farmer FIRST (Horticulture module, May–June 2019), Beautiful World of Indigenous Ornamental Plants (July– August 2019) and Potato (November–December 2019). During this period the two special issues of Kheti, the flagship monthly Hindi Journal of ICAR on Sugarcane and Nutrition, Krishi Khabrein desh-videsh ki column was introduced in the magazine to make it more interesting and informative for readers. The layout and designing of the bimonthly Hindi Journal ‘Phal Phul’ is being modified to make it more attractive. In order to achieve National goal, i.e. based on doubling farmers’ income and articles on success stories of progressive farmers were published on a regular basis in all popular magazines. Articles on emerging challenges of agriculture, the climate change, efficient water use, food processing were published on priority basis for the benefit of farming community. The economic aspect of technologies was also included in the articles to inform readers about the economic viability of the technology. The popular magazines of ICAR were reoriented to make these demand-driven and competitive and also linked with the Facebook of ICAR. To share the agricultural knowledge and information through value added information products in print, the DKMA has brought out 10 books in English and one book in Hindi. More than 83 textbooks are in process under UG/PG Level textbooks programme for the Agricultural Universities, as these are written as per the syllabus of the V Deans’ Committee Report.