29 mV), under simulated GI conditions, showed slow release of curcumin. Curcumin encapsulation in skim milk using self-assembly approach was also optimized. Limosilactobacillus reuteri SW27 and Ligilactobacillus salivarius RBL22 of indigenous cattle calf origin were selected and evaluated for in vitro and in vivo safety after producing spray dried microencapsulated probiotics. Nano ZnO, curcumin and its conjugates were evaluated for their in vitro antimicrobial, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory activities. Among the three nanoparticles, nano ZnOcur conjugate showed high antimicrobial activity against E. coli, Staphylococcus spp and Salmonella spp at 300µg/ml. In vivo acute oral toxicity confirms the less toxicity of ZnOcur conjugate with a LD50 of 425.4mg/kg bwt vs. nano ZnO (175) and In vitro time and dose dependent killing kinetics of encapsulated nanoparticle- conjugated phytochemicals against MDR- EAEC strains. Schematic of the Product development. Scanning electron microscopy of L. reuteri before and after encapsulation Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 50 nano curcumin (311.9). Acute toxicity study was conducted in Wistar Albino rats. LC-MS analysis of buffalo milk isolated exosomes (100nm, zeta potential of -20 mV), protein content of 21 mg/ µl, identified approximately 2041 proteins, with 331 being consistently present across all samples. Gene ontology analysis revealed their functioning as immune response proteins. Genomic approach for risk assessment of metal oxide nanoparticles on soil bacterial communities, soil microbial processes and evaluation of phytotoxicity: In this study, it was observed that ZnO spiked acidic and alkaline soil cause decrease in critical microbial endpoints (soil enzymes, microbial biomass-C,-N & -P and soil respiration) at highest level of 3000 mg Kg-1. In SiO2 and CaO, all parameters, except soil respiration and biomass carbon decreased at 4000 mg Kg-1. The threshold of nZnO toxicity on beneficial microorganisms (Bacillus safensis, Raoultella terrigena, Acinetobacter sp, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens and Trichoderma asperellum) varied depending on the bacteria. In general, changes in colony morphology, growth reduction and population reduction were observed at levels greater than10 mg Kg-1. The threshold level of NP toxicity to rice plant (var. Swarna) was identified. Increased plant growth was observed at levels 25 mg Kg-1 (ZnO), 250 mg Kg-1 (CaO) and 50 mg Kg-1 (SiO2). Higher concentrations of the metal oxides had adverse effect on the growth of rice. Transcriptome analysis of rice grains indicated upregulation of stress response genes viz., pentatricopeptide repeat proteins, heavy metal transport/detoxification protein and glycoside hydrolase. Heavy metals differentially affected the expression of dominant starch synthesis genes namely ADP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (Os01g0633100) and granule-bound starch synthase (Os06g0133000).