 latura during September 2016, causing crop damage to the extent of 50-90%. Prolonged duration of stagnant flood water resulted in spurt of worms. Timely intervention and issue of advisories for application of malathion dust (5%) at 20-25 kg /ha or chlorpyriphos 20EC or quinalphos 25EC at 2 ml/litre resulted in effective management of losses. Farmers were also advised to manage the pest using neem formulations, and biocontrol agents, viz Nomuraea rileyi, Beauveria bassiana and NPV. Weed control in barley: Application of pinoxaden at 40 g/ha + carfentrazone at 20 g/ha or pinoxaden at 40 g/ha, followed by metsulfuron at 4 g/ha has been recommended for effective control of complex weed flora in barley for North West Plain Zone. In the North Hill Zone, pinoxaden at 40 g/ha + metsulfuron at 4 g/ha or isoproturon at 750 g + metsulfuron at 4 g/ ha effectively controlled barley weed flora. Sorghum: Pokkah boeng or twisted top (c.o. Fusarium subglutinans) is an emerging disease causing considerable economic losses to sorghum. Since sources of resistance to the pathogen are not known, artificial inoculation of the test genotypes is necessary for screening. A robust protocol for artificial inoculation was developed for screening sorghum for resistance against F. subglutinans . This technique could be utilized for screening genotypes for pokkah-boeng resistance. Commercial crops Effective fungicidal treatment to sugarcane setts: A mechanized sett treatment device has been developed for effective delivery of nutrients, fungicides and insecticides for pest and disease management in sugarcane nursery. Fungicidal treatment of sugarcane setts reduced red rots and smut infection effectively in sugarcane. The technology has been commercialized and recommended for use in nurseries and sugar industry. Pokkah boeng disease of sorghum—Grades on a scale of 0-4 Rapid detection of Tobacco Streak Virus (TSV) on cotton and soybean Thrips transmitted Tobacco Streak Virus is an emerging challenge to cotton in south and central India. The viruses are reported to infect more than 200 plant species. Molecular diagnostic method, using Confirmatory testing by nucleic acid-based diagnostic using Single tube, reverse transcription loop-mediated isothermal amplification (RT-LAMP) assay, has been developed for the detection of Tobacco Streak Virus in infected plants of cotton (Gossypium hirsutum) and soybean (Glycine max). (A) Symptoms of TSV on cotton-plant; (B) Detection of single tube isothermal amplification by 1.