 The country level programme named as Sankalp- se-Siddhi aimed at creating mass awareness about Government of India’s Commitment for doubling farmer’s income by the year 2022 was organized. As per the guidelines of ICAR and Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, pre-kharif and pre-rabi campaigns were organized by 438 KVKs for better planning and farmers’ participation ensuring timely dissemination of knowledge and information, flow of technological inputs and effective crop management strategy. The KVKs created awareness about Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) across the country for protecting farmers from production risks that may occur through crop loss/ damage due to unforessen natural vagaries and to stabilize the income of farmers by adopting innovative and modern agricultural practices. The overview presents a brief account of salient achievements. Soil and water productivity: The National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning (NBSS&LUP) developed NBSS BHOOMI Geo-portal to access various thematic information on major physiographic regions, sub-physiographic regions of India, agro-ecological regions (1992), agro-ecological regions (2015) and agro- ecological sub-regions of the country. Area/region- specific efficient and remunerative crops and cropping sequences were delineated based on soils, landforms, rainfall, temperature, length of growing period and irrigability. The NBSS&LUP developed an android- based mobile application on GIS platform to facilitate web-based decision support system (DSS) for land use planning and dissemination of soil health cards information at village and farm level for Gujarat. App will display details of soil map unit information and suggested land use plan for that survey number. The NBSS&LUP has so far prepared Land Resource Inventory (LRI) of 99 blocks. These digitized maps of micronutrients status would be helpful in providing site- specific variable rate application of micronutrients prescription for sustainable agricultural productivity. Application of Leucaena biochar, significantly reduced ammonium content of soil, whereas increased nitrate N. Check dams, constructed using two thickness of sheets for 1.2 m high head wall with MS angle frame, saved 30-47% on cost without any effect on life and performance of the check dam. Such constructions will be very useful for installation of quick and low 1. Overview DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 1 OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 2 cost check dam structures in remote areas. The sub- surface drainage (SSD) system was installed in waterlogged saline soils at 2 locations of Bharuch district of Gujarat. Local communities are being sensitized for the active participation for successful operation of these projects. Determination of lead and cadmium concentration limits in agricultural soil and municipal solid waste compost through an approach of zero tolerance to food contamination was developed.