 Transgenic analysis showed that ABA receptor (OsABAR6) gene confers enhanced drought tolerance to rice. Genes for drought tolerance: RNAi silencing and overexpressing transgenic lines of ABA receptor 6 (ABAR6), MYB transcription factor (MYB TF), Protein Kinase SnRK2 and Expressed Protein (EP) genes were developed and analyzed. Transgenic rice lines overexpressing OsABAR6 gene showed enhanced drought tolerance. Analysis of physiological indices for drought tolerance conferred by ABAR6 revealed that the transgenic plants had enhanced root growth and stomatal closure, low excised leaf water loss and reduced whole plant water use. Rice transgenics overexpressing SnRK2 and EP genes also showed enhanced hypersalinity and drought tolerance, respectively at seedling stage. Analysis of Arabidopsis transgenics overexpressing rice HD-ZIP I class homeobox gene OsHOX24 revealed that this nuclear localized HOX24 is a negative regulator of abiotic stress tolerance. Water use efficiency and transpiration (diurnal and nocturnal) rate of 150 rice germplasm lines were analyzed at Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Centre (NDPPC), IARI, New Delhi. Genotypes with contrasting diurnal and nocturnal transpiration under well- watered and moisture-deficit stress conditions were identified. A low correlation between leaf area and mean transpiration in rice germplasm suggested that large portion of genotypic variation in transpiration is controlled by physiological mechanisms that involved in stomatal regulation, besides the leaf area. A total of 18 QTLs for mean day time transpiration and 12 QTLs for mean night time transpiration per unit leaf area were mapped. A region on chromosome 6 appears to control whole plant transpiration. Similarly, 183 wheat germplasm lines and 184 RILs of HD2967 x C306 cross were Transgenic IR 64 with orf B. State-of-art plant phenomics facility at IARI, New Delhi. Manhattan plots of GWAS for transpiration. 19 Salient Achievements of the Projects phenotyped for WUE and drought tolerance, and genotypes with higher WUE and grain yield were identified. RNAi mediated comparative functional analysis of immune response genes in ruminants and fish against Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis and M. fortuitum: A method has been developed for isolation and maintenance of peripheral blood mono-nuclear cell (PBMC). In-vitro model of PBMC-derived macrophages has been developed for functional analysis of immune- response gene against Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) and M. fortuitum (MF) for goat/buffalo and MF for fish. An in-vivo model for studying infection parameters due to MF infection in fish has been developed. Whole genome has been sequenced for goat. Transcriptome and small RNA profiles of macrophages of goat and buffalo when infected with MAP and MF have been worked out to understand immune- response genes in goat.