 water constraints and population growth. Nearly 600 million people have been affected by the ongoing water crisis, which is projected to increase by 2050 and the country’s population is expected to reach 1.6 billion. India’s agriculture sector is the country’s top water consumer. It accounts for around 90% of the country’s yearly freshwater withdrawals of 761,000 billion litres. Water use per capita in the agricultural sector ranges from 4,913 to 5,800 kilolitres per year. Concerns about water scarcity have also been exacerbated by climate change. Climate change has a considerably more visible influence on Indian agriculture, where 85% of farmers are small and marginal, and 60% of agriculture is dependent on monsoon whims. As a result, the role of irrigation takes a centre stage. However, since the introduction of the ‘Green Revolution’ in the mid- 1960s, continued irrigation through Indian Farming 73 (02): 18-20; February 2023 traditional practices has begun to show its numerous negative effects on groundwater quality and height, water logging, soil salinity, soil health and crop productivity, partial factor productivity, and farm practice cost economics. The Government of India is committed to making water security a top issue. It will prioritize completing long-delayed irrigation projects and launching the ‘PMKSY’ with the slogan ‘Har Khet Ko Paani.’ There is a need to thoroughly investigate all possibilities, including river connection where possible, to ensure efficient use of water resources and avoid future floods and droughts. We needs to encourage water conservation and groundwater recharging by harvesting rainwater through ‘Jal Sanchay’ and ‘Jal Sinchan.’ Micro- irrigation will become more common to ensure that ‘Per drop-more crop’ is achieved. Micro-irrigation When the Parliament was rocked by the issue of farmer suicides, it recognized the importance and potential benefits of micro- irrigation as a way to double the farmer’s income while also ensuring agricultural sustainability and environmental purity. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY) is a comprehensive flagship programme introduced by the Union government. Financial assistance of up to 55% for small and marginal farmers and 45% for other farmers is provided under this programme for the adoption of micro-irrigation systems. Since November 2015, the funding pattern between the Union and state governments has been 60:40 for all states except the North East and Himalayan states, where the funding pattern is 90:10. Micro-irrigation can boost yields while lowering water, fertilizer and labour costs. The approach lowers Indian Farming 19 February 2023 water loss by conveyance, run-off, deep percolation and evaporation by providing water directly to the root zone. Traditional irrigation approaches can not avoid these losses; however, micro-irrigation has paved the road for improved water use efficiency of 75–95% thanks to its water-saving approach.