or 2002 ‐ 2 Plastics in n Application (APA), nd Technolog d being pract o construct LD tect the LDPE ges. It is an ch one covering rk are require inflow and w mmended cap mited irrigatio on during lon he impact of o 14.7, 27.3, sicum respect rg.in 3 2007 n of gy, ticed DPE film eap is ed for water pacity on for ng dry these 21.1, tively. 4 Researc www.ica 3.2 Porta This porta In one cyc The syste chamber with bott water circ sprinkle a Spawn Co breeding/ chamber, required design. Hatchery Similarly h million ca million sp respective The syste catla), M (Hypotha and medi The syste one run 1 stocking m for ornam tool for f panchaya like: easy maintena Presently collection h Achieveme ar.org.in ble FRP Carp able FRP carp cle 1.0‐1.2 mi em consists o and overhea om having a culation / flow and aerate th ollection Tank /incubation p water suppl circulatory w of one millio hatchery for pacity includ pawn capacit ely. em is suitable Mrigal (Cirrh almichthys mo um carps like m is designed 1.0‐1.2 million material for 3 mental fish re fish biodivers t and Cooper y to transpo nce. the cost of n tank, and fit nts of AICRPs p Hatchery p hatchery ha illion carp see of Breeding/ d storage ta uniform slop w using PVC p he water. It k is a rectang pool. The cyli y system and water flow fo n‐spawn pro two million c es one breed ty hatcheries e for breedin hinus mrigal olitrix), Grass e Puntius sp. d for fish bree n spawn can 30 hectare of earing or com sity conserva rative Society ort, installat f one hatche tings & fixtur s on Agricultu as been desig ed (spawn) ca / spawning p nk/ water su pe towards o pipes fitted at is suitable fo gular tank wit ndrical hatch d accessories or the eggs a duction mean capacity mean ding pool with s 1.0‐1.2 mill ng of the Ind la), Kalbasu s carp (Cteno and Labeo ba eding in the f be produced water area fo mmon carp br ation also. Th y on self‐oper ion in less ery unit (one res of respect ural Engineeri ned for carp an be produce pool, hatching pply system. outlet at the t the bottom or breeding 1 th cotton inn hing pool con s. Duck‐mout and provision ns one breed ns one breed h three hatch lion spawn c dian Major Ca (Labeo ca opharyngodo ata. field conditio from the sys or fish produc reeding or wa he unit can ational / rent space, low e breeding p tive pool/ tan ng fish breeding ed in the hatc g/ incubation The breeding center. It ha of the side w 10‐12 kg of c er lining for c nsists of egg i hs are fitted n for drainage ding pool asso ding pool with hing pools. In can be harve arps viz., Roh albasu); Chin on idella), Co ns for 10‐12 stem. This qu ction. In lean ater storing. T be operated tal basis. The water requ pool, one ha k) is Rs 99,37 g and hatche chery unit.