 Water stable aggregate The WSA1–2mm percentage was significantly greater in the Conservation tillage relative to other tillage practices under the study (Table 3). The rate at which WSA1–2mm decreased in the CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr) and Farmers practices was 10.91 % and 26.23 %, respectively relative to the Conservation tillage practice. Weed management options and treatment interactions (tillage-weed man­ agement) effects on WSA1–2mm were non-significant (Table 3). 9. System cotton equivalent yield The maize grain yield obtained from different tillage-weed management combinations, was converted into cotton equivalent yield (CEY) considering the monitory equivalence. The winter cotton equivalent yield was subsequently added to the monsoon cotton yield of the 3rd year to arrive at the CEY of the cotton– maize system i.e., system yield after 3 years. The ZT(C) + SrR-ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS exhibited a significantly higher CEY (3775 kg ha−1) relative to other tillage practices examined (Table 4). Among the weed management strategies, integrated weed management (IWM) had a significantly greater system CEY (4157 kg ha−1) compared to the rest of the weed management practices examined. Based on the tillage and weed management combinations, the ZT(C) + SrR-ZT(M) + K. Nthebere et al. Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 7 CR-ZT(Sr) + MS with IWM, recorded significantly higher CEY (4453 kg ha−1), while the combination of CT(C)-ZT(M)-ZT(Sr), CT(C)-CT (M)-Fallow(NSr) and ZT(C) + SrR-ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS with Single hand-weeded control resulted in the lowest CEY values (1848 kg ha−1, 1767 kg ha−1 and 2157, respectively). 10. Relationship between AMF percentage colonization, glomalin with other soil quality related parameters and system cotton equivalent yield The Pearson correlation coefficient analysis was performed to ascertain the associateship of the crop yield in terms of system yield and conservation agricultural management practices with arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi colonization percentage (AMF-CP), glomalin related soil protein (GRSP) and other soil quality related parameters (soil organic carbon, soil microbial biomass carbon, β-Galacto­ sidase activity and water stable aggregates of 1–2 mm). The associateship among the AMF-CP, GRSP (EE-GRSP and T-GRSP), and SOC, SMBC, β-galactosidase activity and water stable aggregates of 1–2 mm (WSA1–2mm) was significantly positive (Table 5). There was a significant positive correlation observed between AMF-CP with EE-GRSP and T-GRSP (r = 0.611* and r = 0.662*, respectively). In like manner, correlation between EE-GRSP and T-GRSP was positive and highly significant (r = 0.719**) (Table 5). The AMF-CP and T- GRSP correlation with all associated soil quality parameters examined (SOC, SMBC, β-GaA and WSA1–2mm) was significantly higher compared to the EE-GRSP thereof. No significant correlation was observed between system yield and all the parameters examined in the present study (Table 5). 11.