 However, the ICAR-IIVR activities have been started recently in the Aspirational districts of the NE region and after repeated intervention and introduction of new technologies, promising results are expected. Technologies demonstrated/Kisan Mela/Field day organized in NE region A total of 72 Trainings, 55 Technology demonstrations, 13 Kisan melas and 29 Field days were organized for dissemination of information to the farmers. For further interaction, please write to: Rakesh Kumar Dubey (Principal Scientist), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: rksdubey@gmail.com Success story March–April 2023 33 Research Nursery management in vegetable crops for enhancing farmers’ income The production of healthy seedlings plays a vital role in the establishment of a healthy crop in the main field. Nursery management of vegetable crops is primary and most important aspect in enhancing vegetable production and profitability. Majority of germinating tender saplings get damaged due to certain biotic and abiotic factors in the process of nursery raising due to which farmers incur great loss. Farmers are still following their age old traditional method of nursery raising of vegetables. Farmers of Diara region are compelled to raise their vegetable nursery at very limited and specified places located at higher elevation due to threat of floods every year and 60-70% saplings are lost. This article focusses on nursery management in vegetable crops to enhance the income and reduce losses. S N S Chaurasia*, Anant Bahadur, Swati Sharma, Hare Krishna and S K Singh I n nursery, plants are nurtured with optimum growing conditions to ensure proper growth. Nursery saves considerable time for the raising of the next crop. The aim of good nursery management is to make planting material of the highest possible quality available for new development areas and replanting. Poor planting materials lead to low yield and unnecessary maintenance in transplanted field. There are a number of vegetables, viz. tomato, brinjal, chillies, capsicum, cauliflower, cabbage, knol-khol, Chinese cabbage, Brussels sprouts, broccoli, kale collard, celery, parsley, etc. which need nursery raised seedlings for transplantation in the main field. Seedling production is a major expense of vegetable growers and every effort should be made to produce good quality seedlings at a reasonable cost. So, the efficient nursery growing techniques are essential for the growers so that they can reduce the total vegetable production costs. A vegetable nursery is a place or an establishment for raising or handling of young vegetable seedlings until they are ready for more permanent planting.