 In the contemporary India, subsistence farming is practiced only in few pockets while commercial farming is a practice in substantial shares of marginal to small land holdings. In the changing scenario, due to the shrinking farming population and simultaneously rising urban population subsistence farming may not cater to the food needs of all. We must, however, work between a market agriculture and commercial agriculture. Commercial agriculture sustains the food supply in a block or a district level and does not cater to long distances. Market agriculture, on the other hand, supports the farm produce to be sold in distant markets. Fast transport systems and advancement of scientific food handling methods are added supports for such market agricultural economy. Government supports are essential for the success of market agriculture economies. Recently the Government Introduced Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020. This bill will help small farmers who do not have means to either bargain for their produce to get a better price or invest in technology to improve the productivity of farms. The bill, further, allows barrier free interstate or intra- state trading of farm produce. Farmers will get better prices through competition and cost- cutting on transportation. Government has also introduced a Kisan Credit Card scheme to save farmers from high-interest rates usually charged by money-lenders in the unorganized sector. The interest rate can be as low as 2% under this scheme. Moreover, the repayment period is based on the harvesting or marketing period of the crop for which the loan amount was taken. 2.3. Gandhian Principles on Organic Agriculture “The world has enough for everyone’s needs, but not for everyone’s greed” is a famous Gandhiji’s quote that promulgates ethical principles against overexploitation of the natural resources. We are the trustees of the natural resources available to us and not the owners. We need only to use the resources conservatively and effectively to satisfy our needs and not for accumulating wealth to quench our greed. He wanted the farmer to consider the earth as his mother. To protect the mother earth, he emphasized the extensive use of livestock and organic fertilizer for agricultural activities. He also explained the simple methods of producing organic fertilizers locally. We have realized, based on our experiences, the harmfulness of chemical fertilizers and over exploitation of soils and natural resources and their long lasting impacts on our production systems and sustainability in agriculture. This proved the worth of Gandhiji’s vision and thoughts on organic agriculture several decades ago. Non-organic crop and livestock production has great impacts on our environment at local national and global levels.