 These sub-heads and the expenditure to be covered under each sub-head is given below: 1. Works: The expenditure on construction of different buildings, as per the requirements of the KVK and according to the approved norms, may be met out of this fund. This will also include the cost of sanitary, water fittings and electrification. Budget under this sub-head should not be used either for purchasing of land or for buildings. The cost of constructing sheds for workshops, poultry, dairy, piggery and goat units etc. may also be included in this sub-head. However, such demonstration units should not be more than four. Low cost, need based demonstration units have to be established in the KVK. The budget under this sub-head may be used for purchase of milch animals, poultry birds, goats, pigs, fish fingerlings etc., No amount of this head should be utilized for maintaining these units. The expenditure on establishment of plant nursery, crop cafeteria, etc. may also be booked under this sub-head. The allocation made in this head may also be used in development of instructional farm of KVK in 93 Financial Management terms of leveling of land, contouring, bunding, constructing irrigation channels, fencing, making threshing floor, farm pond and farm roads. For commencement of any approved work at approved site as per sanctioned map/layout under this head, the plan and estimates of the building need to be vetted and sanctioned by the ICAR. The work manual procedure must be followed and the payment may be made accordingly. While constructing the buildings the plinth area should be restricted to the approved limit. Expenditure should not be incurred over and above the sanctioned limit. The funds for construction works may be released in three installments, one-third with approval and sanction, one-third after the construction reaches the plinth level and remaining one-third after the construction reaches roof level. The necessary certificate of progress of work at different stages (plinth and roof level) is to be provided by the host organization along with the expenditure statement and photograph of the constructed structure/level. Format on details of expenditure incurred under the head ‘Works’ is presented in Appendix X. The following guideline should be adhered in incurring expenditure under this head: Original works means all new constructions, additions and alterations to existing works, special repairs to newly purchase or previously abandoned buildings or structures, including remodeling or replacement. Repair works means works undertaken to maintain building and fixtures. Administrative control of works includes: (i) assumption of full responsibility for construction, maintenance and upkeep; (ii) proper utilization of buildings and allied works; (iii) provision of funds for execution of these functions.