 Benefits: Benefits of using Goa Bio-2 include, improved plant growth parameters, plant health and yield; reduced soil borne diseases incidence in brinjal (70-80% bacterial wilt), chilli(40-60% wilt and root rot) and black pepper (70-80% foot rot); important component in IPM strategy and eco-friendly hence fits in organic farming concept. The results of various studies conducted clearly showed that soil borne disease incidence was significantly lower and growth is improved in Goa Bio-2 treated plants . 6. Contact: Director, ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa 403 402, Goa. Goa Bio-2 treated chilli fields and black pepper plantation 45 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Liquid Bioinoculant of Endophytic Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria for Rice Crop 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Liquid bioinoculant of endophytic nitrogen fixing bacteria is a quality bioformulation particularly for rice crop, comprising with nitrogen (N2) fixing (Azotobacter chroococcum Avi2) bacteria. It has a longer shelf life (more than 12 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Liquid bioinoculant of endophytic nitrogen fixing bacteria A. chroococcum Avi2 is suitable for rice crop. Inoculation can be done through seed treatment, and root dip for seedlings. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations of farmers’ field (30 villages of Cuttack & Puri district) of Odisha and also given very encouraging results at NRRI field. 5. Benefits: Liquid bioinoculant of endophytic nitrogen fixing bacteria for rice crop has shown remarkable response in the farmers’ field with respect to crop growth and yield. It could save the usage of chemical fertilizers by 25% of the recommended dose without compromising yield and growth of the plants. Application of this biofertilizer with 75% recommended dose of fertilizer resulted in at par yield in rice with 100 % RDF. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack – 753006. 46 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Liquid Bioinoculant of Rhizospheric Nitrogen Fixing Bacteria for Rice Crop 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Liquid bioinoculant of rhizospheric nitrogen fixing bacteria is a quality bioformulation particularly for rice crop, comprising with nitrogen (N2) fixing (Azotobacter vinelandii SRIAz3) bacteria. It has a longer shelf life (more than 12 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Liquid bioinoculant of rhizospheric nitrogen fixing bacteria (A. vinelandii SRIAz3) can be used for rice crop. Inoculation can be done through seed treatment, and root dip for seedlings. 3.