 Among colchicine alternatives, APM (10 μM) + Trifluralin (350 μM) was confirmed as the best treatment compared with Amiprophos-methyl (APM) (10 μM) and Trifluralin (350 μM) when applied individually 24 h after pollination. Further, use of Phloroglucinol in embryo rescue media showed positive effect on plant regeneration. In case of maize, based on preliminary observations, three treatments - APM 20 ppm + Pronamide 2 ppm + Trifluralin 1 ppm for 12 h, APM 20 ppm + Trifluralin 1 ppm for 8 h and APM 20 ppm + Pronamide 1 ppm for 12 h were found promising. Pigmentation on dorsal basal portion of seed identifed as a putative trait for haploid classification in the hybrid CMVL 55, which is expected to help in haploid classification in source populations with anthocyanin inhibitor genes. For capacity building of various NARS partners in DH prouduction, one day online lecture was delivered to participants on DH in wheat. Two scientists from public and private sectors and one student from SAU were imparted training on androgenesis for DH production. Targeted editing of potato genome to develop variety specific True Potato Seeds (TPS): The potato homologues of three MiMe and CENH3 genes namely StOSD1, StRec8, StSPO11 and StCENH3 were identified using NCBI BLAST from AtOSD1, AtRec8, Pearson correlation coefficient among amino acids and protein content of chickpea genotypes. SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 178 AtSPO11 and AtCENH3 genes sequences. Two gRNA targets were also identified in each gene and were assembled into pHSE401 CRISPR/Cas9 vector independently for MiMe and CENH3 and were confirmed by digestion. Multicistronic construct with all the three MiMe genes was prepared using gtRNA after each target gRNA sequence and assembled in pHSE401. Further the construct was used for genetic transformation of potato variety Kufri Jyoti using inter nodal stem cuttings for editing all the 3 MiMe genes simultaneously and CENH3 gene construct independently. Around 80 calli and 60 calli were generated using 5 mg/ml hygromycin selective media for MiMe and CENH3 construct, respectively. accessions that have high spikelet fertility under high temperature were identified. Availability of the genotypic dataset (SNPs) based on Rice SNP-Seek database (further filtered using several parameters to remove false and low quality bases) and the phenotypic data gave a very good opportunity to understand how the allelic variation contributes to the phenotypic variations. The above processes aided in materialising our primary objective to perform the association analysis between the SNP markers and phenotypic data using the mixed linear model (MLM) for the identification of superior donors as well as candidate genes/alleles contributing to spikelet fertility and grain chalkiness under high temperature stress in rice.