 56 Canna indica Indian shot H- Sarvajjya B-Sarbajaya M-Devakeli Kan-Hudingana T-Kalvalai TelKrishnatamara Mal-Kattuvala The roots are used in indigenous medicine as diaphoretic and diuretics in fever and dropsy. It’s fiber can be used as a substitute for jute in the manufacture of rope twine and sack cloth. The seeds yield a beautiful, evanescent, purple dye. Perennial herb with light-scarlet or yellow flowers, widely cultivated through out India for its beautiful flower and foliage. 57 Cannabis sativa True hemp HBhang ,Charas Ganja B- Bhang, Charas, Ganja GBhang,Charas, Ganja Tel-Ganzai T-Ganja Kan-Bangi Three products are obtained from the plant—fibre, oil and the narcotics, bhang, ganja and charas. Hemp-seed oil finds use in the plant and varnish industries as a substitute for linseed oil, and in the manufacture of soft soap. A tall annual herb, 4–10 feet high with erect angular stem, bearing palmately divided leaves. The plant is diocious, rarely monoecious. It is practically naturalized in the sub Himalayan tract in India and is abundantly met with in wastelands of Punjab eastward to Bengal and Bihar and extending south wards to Decean. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 322 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 58 Capparis decisdua - H-Kurrel M-Ker G-Ker Tel-Kariramu T-Sengam Kan-Chippuri Punjabi-Karil The fruit is an astringent and useful in cardiac trouble and biliousness. The tender branches and leaves are used as plasters for boils and swelling. The bark is acrid, laxative, diaphoretic, alexeteric, anthelmintic and useful for cough, asthama and inflammation. Root and bark are pungent and bitter and given in intermittent fever and rheumatism. A densely branching shrub or a small tree. It is met with chiefly in dry places in the Deccan peninsula, Rajputana, Punjab and Sind. 59 Capparis sepiaria - - It is febrifuge, alterative and tonic and has been useful for skin diseases. It is a large climbing shrub, distributed in dry season through out India, Burma, Sri Lanka and Andaman. It is useful hedge plant. 60 Capsicum annum Chilli H- Lal mirch B-Lankamorich Tel-Mirapakaya T-Milagay Kan- Mensinakai Mal-Mulaku The pungent principle of chilli is capsaicin. Dry chilli is extensively used as a spice in India. Curry powder is made by grinding roasted dry chilli. It has tonic and carminative action, and is specially useful in atonic dyspepsia. This is extensively cultivated throughout India. The fruits are bright-red, slender and thin wall. 61 Cardiospermum halicacabum Balloon vine heart seed H- Kanphuti B-Lataphatkari G-Karolio M-Kapalphodi TelBuddakakara T-Mudukottan The root is diuretic, diaphoretic, emetic, laxative, rubefacient and useful as poultice for rheumatism. The leaf juice is said to be cure for earache. A species common through out India in the plains.