 By celebrating it in 2023, it fits very logically into the decade of family farming. In addition, this cereal has received particular attention from African countries following the financing by the African Development Bank through a number of initiatives such as adaptation of African agriculture and the technologies for the transformation of agriculture in Africa. This celebration will be an excellent opportunity to foster connections throughout the supply chain. Production so as to make better use of the proteins and mineral salts derived from millet, to strengthen the millet production on a global scale and to get more out of it. My country supports Indian Farming 15 January 2023 the celebration of an international year of millet. This proclamation will contribute to culmination of several SDGs. Mr Suresh Kumar Malhotra (India) India is honored to deliver the support statement for the International Tea Day on behalf of the Asia Regional Group. India is the second largest producer of fruits and vegetables. India produces 92 million tonnes of fruits and 178 million tons of vegetables. Considering the importance of fruits and vegetables in food, nutrition and livelihood security, India supports the proposal of celebration of the International Year of Fruits and Vegetables. Considering the one important statement on food loss and waste, food saved is food produced. India supports the International Day of Awareness of Food Loss and Waste. So my final comments on the International Year of Millets. India appreciates the Asia Regional Group, Africa Regional Group, European Union, Russian Federation and many of the other member countries for good remarks on the benefits of millets such as high climate resilience, high nutrition value, capacity of millets to take less and give more and the observance of the International Year of Millets will definitely augment production not only for the major millets: pearl millets, sorghum and finger millets, but also the minor millets: little millets, barnyard millets and foxtail millets which are in a real sense crops of adverse climate conditions. Observance for International Year of Millets will prove as a viable option for marginal farmers who contribute more for food and nutritional security. India is ready to champion and promote nutritional as well as ecological benefits of the millets. Mr Bukar Tijani (Assistant Director-General, Agriculture and Consumer Protection Department) Thank you for the observation. There are two things I want to say to briefly conclude my own assessment. In fact, the food loss and waste is a major issue in most regions, and this is something that family farmers and others have produced a lot that goes into waste. It is so important for us to see what we can do.