 He was deeply involved in the science of sanitation. He experimented with different types of toilet constructions and made attempts to convert human excreta into manure. In his Ashram, an army of workers was engaged in the conversion of human excreta into rich organic manure. Our Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri. Narendra Modi took up this important mission of Gandhiji under the “Swachh Bharat Abhiyan”. He said that sanitation is more important than political independence. ICAR has institutionalized the Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 140 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Swachh Bharath Abhiyan in all its institutions and also through its network of institutions and centres to many villages. Gandhiji’s vision for clean India has its root in agriculture. He considered that organic manure would only enrich soil and never would impoverish the soil. He opined that use of manure prepared by composting daily wastes would significantly reduce cost and enhance crop yield, while also contributing to keep the surroundings clean and people healthy (Gandhi 1947). Gandhiji’s vision now has manifested as centres and Gobar Dhan schemes in Rural India (Jayalani 2018). In Harijan, Gandhiji described how to make compost manure with local labour and least capital. The practice of using cow urine in various biodynamic formulations, has great resonance with Gandhian thoughts on farming with natural inputs. The organic farming mainly enriches the soil nutrients. A Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) was initiated during 2004-05 by ICAR with Project Directorate for Farming Systems Research (PDFSR) as nodal institute to develop and promote a comprehensive technological package of organic farming for different crops in system mode, in different agriculture zones of the country. The current technological practices of soil health management with improving soil organic carbon (SOC) stem from the Gandhian thinking of using organic manures for enhancing soil fertility. 3.7. Cooperative Farming Gandhiji recommended co-operative farming for sharing labour, capital, and tools and equitable wage earning to all adults in the villages. He was concerned with fragmentation of land and called upon people to resort to co-operative farming, for promoting rural development. India now has the pride of having the world’s largest network of cooperatives. The cooperatives play a vital role in India’s rural economy. ICAR has played a pivotal role in institutionalizing cooperatives and also in establishing farmer producer organizations (FPOs) towards bringing farmers together. Agriculture land is fragmented, and majority of the farmers currently has marginal and small farm holdings, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare policies promote cooperative farming or collective farming. ICAR has a significant role in extending this Gandhian philosophy across the country, which contributes to wide-spread adoption of the practices. 3.8.