 Decentralized economic divisions would thereby make it simpler for the utilization of local resources such as raw materials, manpower, ensuring employment for all, thus creating a sustainable equilibrium and a cooperative living. Compliance to the doctrine of Swadeshi contributes to a proper economic order and peace. 3.3. Self-sufficiency: Self-sufficiency should be the primary objective of rural development according to Mahatma. In order to encourage this ideology, he tried to create a favourable attitude towards Swadeshi among the villagers. He promoted self-sufficiency as a foundational philosophy of life because dependency would lead to deprivation; the root cause of violence. He advocated that villages must be self-sufficient, i.e. cultivating their own crops, spinning own clothes, and other things required to satisfy their basic needs on a cooperative basis (for example, cooperative farming, spinners cooperative) for saving time, energy and resources 185 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead as well as protecting their own rights (Panda 1991). He focused on supporting village or cottage industry and crafts as they can generate jobs that are required to fulfil the villagers’ daily requirements and also to promote self-sufficient villages. As a part of this, he established Khadi making units in the villages, Khadi was considered as an instrument for Gandhiji to decentralize the development and distribution of the fundamental needs of life and to ensure jobs for everyone. Gandhiji regarded Khadi as an unavoidable means to the nation’s overall growth and to banish pauperism. He said that Khadi ensured three basic necessities for poor: work, cloth and self-confidence (Tendulkar, 1951). He also prioritized the fostering of other sectors such as soap making, hand grinding and pounding, paper making, metal making, tanning, oil seed crushing etc. He supported manual work and criticized the implementation of automation, worrying that human labour would be replaced by the machines. But he welcomed and promoted the grass root innovations as it did not affect the employment opportunity and standard of living (Bora 1996). Gandhiji led the farmers of Champaran and Kheda in a satyagraha against the mill owners and landlords who were supported by the British government. He wanted to end oppressive taxation, and other policies that forced the farmers and workers and defend their economic rights. A major part of this rebellion was a commitment from the farmers to end caste discrimination and oppressive social practices against women. With that objective, he launched a cooperative effort to promote education, health care, and self-sufficiency by producing clothes and food that were made locally. 3.4. Bread Labour: Gandhiji was influenced by the works of Tolstoy and Ruskin, and urged that everyone should engage in physical labour irrespective of their designations.