 Besides direct participation and MoUs, the ICAR/DARE also participates in the international cooperation framework signed by the Departments of (i) Agriculture & Farmers Welfare; (ii) Animal Husbandry & Dairying; (iii) Fisheries. Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Commerce constituted Joint Working Groups (JWGs) and Joint Commissions which have agriculture research component. DARE/ICAR has been an active partner in several of the international collaboration signed by Ministry of Science and Technology DARE /ICAR also participate in such JWGs and JCs. The MoUs signed between DARE/ICAR and foreign countries/agencies promote research and education through human resources development, exchange of information, technology and germplasms, etc. During the last three years, a total of over 688 Scientists/science leaders were deputed abroad under these programmes. 3.2. Collaboration of ICAR with CGIAR The DARE entered into a MoA with the Ford Foundation (on behalf of CGIAR) in 1973 and subsequently the International Crop Research Institute for Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) was established at Hyderabad in India (Table 2). The collaborations with CIMMYT and IRRI was established in 1974 that gave a new boost to our research & development of wheat and rice in initial years of green revolution and to maize and rice-based systems in subsequent years. The work on potato improvement and protection was strengthened with the collaboration of CIP established in 1975. Gradually our collaborations expanded covering almost all the fields like crops, horticulture, animal sciences, fisheries, biodiversity, water, agroforestry and policy. Today ICAR has active MoUs with 12 out of 15 CGIAR Institutes that have helped bolstering our efforts for R&D on agriculture and food (Table 2). Along with ICRISAT, Government of India also enabled setting up of 11 regional offices and country offices out of 14 CGIAR Research Centers. Our contribution to CGIAR have been acknowledged as donor member of CGIAR System for decades. India is one amongst the many donor countries having voting rights in the CGIAR system Council. This is because our sizeable contribution through Window-I and Window III of the CGIAR System. The research collaboration involves enhanced cooperation in germplasm exchange and variety & technology development to achieve higher productivity and better-quality produce. Besides, the strategic areas such as utilization of rice fallows, watershed development, rainfed/dry land agriculture and water management and working together for doubling farmer’s income. The ICAR-CGIAR collaborations with CIP for potato, ILRI for livestock, WorldfFish for fisheries, ICRAF for agroforestry, IWMI for water management has also strengthened over time. Over 1000 accessions of diversified potato supplied to India by CIP which helped developing 8 potato varieties by CPRI.