 Brown rice process Soaking brown rice until the moisture content reaches 24% (40–70 ◦C), steaming 100–120 ◦C for 10–15 min, and hot air drying at 30–50 ◦C until 12–14% MC Faster hydration Risk of caking during the process and higher solid loss [11,31] 10. Microwave-assisted soaking process Soaking in 0.4–0.7 kW for 10–20 min; dried in a hot air oven at 40 ◦C until 12–14% MC Faster hydration, more uniform microstructure Higher energy consumption and expensive [17] 2.1. The Single-Batch Boiling Process The most traditional method of parboiling, normally undertaken on a domestic scale, is a batch process [2]. Since there is no access to steam, the rice is parboiled using hot water. Paddy is soaked at a relatively ambient temperature for several hours, drained, and then cooked with a small amount of water at the bottom to generate steam in situ. Alternatively, paddy is soaked for a few hours and brieﬂy boiled. Such treatments often resulted in grain distortion, known as “white belly”, and some off-ﬂavor generation [32]. This small-scale process eliminates inherent microbial fermentation that hinders parboiling on a large scale. Sometimes, the method used is separate soaking and steaming without boiling. It is conducted using a false-bottomed iron tank or drum to soak rice in water heated by a ﬁre beneath. Rice is steamed by draining and reheating water from underneath the false bottom. Paddy is steamed in the upper tank and soaked in pot water. Some areas surrounding South Asia also employ this strategy [3,26]. Because heating such a large volume of water is costly and produces temperature gradients (hotter on top, cooler on bottom) and differential hydration, entrepreneurs performed industrial-scale parboiling by soaking paddy in ambient water. “Single boiling” is when parboiling rice with only one steaming process. Soaking 5–30 tons requires three days in water at ambient temperature. After the water was drained, the soaked grain was moved by hand in baskets to cylindrical steaming tanks with conical bottoms, hatches, and steam pipes. Each tank can hold 200–500 kg of paddy. Rice is steamed for a few mins and dried in the yard while the condensate drains [32]. This method of parboiling is the simplest, easy to install, and with low technological cost, but the disadvantage is the inevitably generated off-ﬂavor. After starch gelatinization, paddy must be further dried to reduce the moisture content from 30–55% to 12% dry basis (db) [2]. At the earlier stage of parboiling, the most commonly used methods of paddy drying were sun drying or shade drying. After paddy parboiling and starch gelatinization, drying is important since it affects the rice’s storage life and milling quality. During the harvesting season, a vast drying space is required on drying ﬂoors, which are often made of concrete or brick [32]. 2.2. Double Boiling Process Factories develop a double boiling method after a single boiling process. Two batches of boiling water are required.