 The “National Agriculture Innovation Fund” of ICAR provides systematic ethos to technology transfer and commercialization. With this support mechanism, ICAR-NAARM is promoting agribusiness while handholding agri-business incubators by inter-alia developing modules, guidelines and other forms of learning material for capacity building. The Council strives to accelerate development of entrepreneurial companies from idea stage towards self-sustaining successful business. The Startup India, a flagship initiative of GoI has further given a stimulus to the Agri- Business Incubators to nurture innovation and Startups in the country. Supporting the programme, NAARM along with IPTM Unit of ICAR headquarters have compiled the profile of 100 Agri-Startups of different domains of agriculture & allied areas. These startups have been supported by ICAR at various stage such as technology license, incubation, training, IP filing etc. This publication would inspire the new & budding agri- entrepreneurs to endeavor into agri-business ecosystem to foster the economy of the country and spread the movement of Agri-Start Ups. (T Mohapatra)  Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra Secretary (DARE) & DG, ICAR, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India New Delhi-110 001. India Foreword  Following the Government of India's initiative for promoting Start-Ups in the country, a brief study was undertaken among all ICAR institutions by IP&TM Unit and NAARM to contour the Agri-Startups associated with ICAR institutions either through technology transfer or business incubation across the country. There are about 24 Agribusiness Incubators in India with the support of National Agricultural Innovation Fund besides IP&TM unit in all institutions. Number of technologies that were transferred since 2006 is more than 1250 and still increasing. These technologies were transferred to different stakeholders like MNCs, Indian Companies, SMEs, Government organizations, Non-Government organizations and Startup Entrepreneurs. Based on these base level data at IP& TM Unit, we tried to capture the status of 100 selected entrepreneurs, who have partnered with ICAR, as a part of its technology transfer process and/or incubation process. “Agri-startups: Reflection of ICAR Technologies in Market” is a brief outline of these startup entrepreneurs. This compilation would provide a glimpse of the startup panorama of India and would inspire more and more youth to be part of this National Mission of Startup India and Make in India towards fostering and building entrepreneurship in agriculture. The objective of this publication is to inspire the youth to come into this sector for a better future. We are grateful to Dr T. Mohapatra, Secretarty DARE and Director General, ICAR for his constant encouragement to complete this document. Authors are thankful to Directors of various ICAR Institutes and start-up companies for providing inputs for successful compilation of this document.