 Key digital initiatives in horticulture BAU’s digital initiatives have revolutionized how agricultural knowledge and technologies are shared with farmers, especially those in remote areas. These initiatives span a variety of platforms and tools designed to ensure that farmers receive timely, accurate, and actionable information. Some of the promising digital initiatives of BAU, Sabour are Youtube channel, Farm Advisory through Gramin Krishi Mausam Sewa project (GKMS), Kisan Helpline, Sawal Jawab, Community Radio Station, Kisan Gyan Rath/Krishi Gyan Vahan, etc. The university has recently adopted a range of innovative digital initiatives, including the Internet of Things (IoT) and drone technology, to enhance the promotion and cultivation of horticultural crops. Digital advisory services: The University has developed a robust digital advisory platform that provides farmers with real-time, location-specific information on weather conditions, pest and disease outbreaks and efficient crop management practices. Through mobile applications and SMS alerts, horticulture farmers are empowered to make informed decisions that reduce crop losses and optimize the use of resources such as water, fertilizers, and pesticides. This system is particularly beneficial for farmers in remote areas where access to traditional extension services is limited or unavailable. Over the last three years, 624 agromet advisory bulletins were distributed to 66.84 lakhs farmers via the SMS service on the m-Kisan Portal (https://mkisan. gov.in/). Additionally, these bulletins were sent through WhatsApp groups, reaching 16.11 lakhs farmers. Advisory also available through the university website (https:// bausabour.ac.in/agro-advisory-services.aspx#!) Kisan Helpline: The Kisan Helpline is a part of the Integrated Plant Health Clinic at BAU, Sabour, has provided year-round support to horticultural farmers and agricultural practitioners across the states. With assistance from scientists across various agricultural disciplines, the helpline addressed a wide range of queries through both phone and WhatsApp. Between April 2023 and March 2024, the helpline received a total of 3,547 calls, of which 1,880 were via the basic phone and toll-free number. Additionally, 1,667 messages and images related to horticultural crop issues were submitted through WhatsApp. The inquiries covered various aspects of agriculture, with a significant emphasis on crop protection, horticulture, agronomy, extension and soil science. Experts offered solutions tailored to the specific challenges faced by farmers during and beyond the cropping season (Kisan Helpline Contact Numbers: Basic phone: 0641-2451035; Toll-Free: 18003456455; WhatsApp: 7004528893). Sawal Jawab: Sawal Jawab (from laboratory to field) is a live forum dedicated to horticultural and others crops, where farmers and youths engage directly with experts on various horticultural crop issues.