 Joint Secretary (M&T), DAC&FW Gas (with request to kindly nominate suitable expert for the committee) 4. Dr. Suresh Pal, Director, NIAP, New Delhi (with request to kindly nominate suitable representative/expert for the committee) 5. Director, CIAE, Bhopal 6. Dr. S. S. Sooch, Principal Scientist (Renewable Energy Engg.), PAU, Ludhiana 7. Dr. Mukesh Jain, Assistant Professor (FMPE), CCSHAU, Hissar    

  Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 Icar Technologies Biopesticides FOR ECO-FRIENDLY PEST MANAGEMENT Printed at: M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028 Printed: July, 2021 Citation: Saxena A.K., Chakdar H., Kumar M., Rajawat M.V.S., Dubey S.C. and Sharma T.R. 2021. ICAR Technologies: Biopesticides for Eco-friendly Pest Management. Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Conceived by: Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi 110 001 Compiled by: Dr. Anil Kumar Saxena, Director, ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms, Kushmaur, Mau 275 103 Edited by: A.K. Saxena, H. Chakdar, Kumar M., M.V.S. Rajawat, S.C. Dubey and T.R. Sharma Contributors: All the developers of the Biopesticides Secretarial Assistance: Mr. Siddharth Arora, Personal Assistant, ICAR-NBAIM Published by: Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-1, Pusa Campus, New Delhi 110 012. © 2021, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. This publication may be used/shared freely for non-commercial purposes, with proper attribution to the publisher. iii FOREWORD Indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides post green revolution taught us a tough lesson that sustainable utilization of the resources is the way forward for prolonged growth in agricultural production sans deterioration of soil health. Just as biofertilizers are emerging as green alternative to chemical fertilizers, biopesticides have a huge role to play in sustainable management of crop pests and pathogens. In contrast to chemical pesticides, application of ecofriendly biopesticides does not lead to development of any resistance in pests and pathogens. Still this sustainable alternative is struggling to find its place in the market over its chemical counterpart owing to technological challenges and acceptance among the farming community. National Policy for Farmers (NPF), 2007, which aims to improve economic viability of farming and increase net income of farmers, strongly recommends the promotion of biopesticides. In spite of these efforts the biopesticides represent only 4.2% of the overall pesticide market in India compared to 40% in USA and 20% each in Europe and Oceanic countries.