 Soil treatment with bio-agents: Certain biological agents like Trichoderma are used to control soil-borne pathogens. Bio-agents like Trichoderma viridi or Trichoderma harzianum @ 10–25 g/m2 are mixed in the soil, and after 2–3 days, the seeds are sown. Soil treatment with hot steam: Hot steam can be used to treat the soil against harmful insect pests. After air tight covering using polythene sheet of the required area, hot steam is supplied for at least 4-6 hours continuously with the help of fumes generating machines. Soil treatment with solar radiation (solarization): It is an environment-friendly method to control soil-borne plant pathogens, including bacteria, fungi, nematodes, insect-pests (eggs, larvae, pupa) and weeds. Solar energy increases the temperature of the soil, which helps control various soil-borne pathogens. The most appropriate time for soil solarization is April−June in North Indian plains when the temperature reaches 47ºC or above. This treatment causes physical, chemical and biological changes in the soil. Method of Solarization: After thoroughly wetting the raised nursery, beds are covered with transparent polythene sheet (200 gauge) for 5–6 weeks during summer as wet soil conducts heat better than dry soil and makes soil organisms vulnerable to being killed by heat generation. Make the covering airtight by covering the margins with compressed wet mud to check the loss of moisture and prevent the entry of air from beneath the polythene sheet. After 5-6 weeks, the polythene sheet should be removed and used for seed sowing. This way all weed seeds in top 5-6 inches soil, insect-pests, eggs, larva and pupa, damping-off causing pathogens are controlled. Seed treatment Some vegetables (example peppers) are relatively slow to emerge and need protection from seed and soil borne diseases. Seeds carry pathogen of certain diseases and insect pest. In order to avoid disease and insect pest problems, treating the seeds with chemicals prior to sowing the seed is advisable, because it protects the seeds both from seed and soil-borne infection. Most seed treatment products are fungicides or insecticides applied to seed before planting. Nursery bed preparation Nursery bed should be prepared according to the season and the crop. Field should be ploughed and leveled well. Soil should be worked thoroughly to obtain a fine bed, free of clods. In rainy season, raised beds are prepared but, in the winter, and summer season flatbed may also be prepared. However, it is beneficial to prepare beds 15- 20 cm raised from the ground surface. The level of the bed surface should be made little slanting on the two sides. The breadth of the beds should not be more than 1 m and length 3 m. The standard size of nursery bed is 3 m × 1 m × 15-20 cm (l × w × h). A space of 30-45 cm between beds should be left for drainage and intercultural practices. 20-25 kg well rotten farm yard manure (FYM) is added in each standard size nursery bed.