 The scheme aims at enabling the 74 Agricultural Universities (AUs) to maintain quality of higher agricultural education through accreditation, periodic revision of courses, and helps attract talented students by providing support for various scholarships/ fellowships, capacity building of faculty in challenging areas through Centre for Advanced Faculty training, Niche Area of Excellence, as well as through promotion of holistic higher education, viz. experiential learning modules, emphasis on improving and modernizing teaching and learning, infrastructure and student amenities, including those pertaining to sports and personality development. Governance and quality assurance Accreditation of agricultural universities: The National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) started accreditation of agricultural universities. Total number of SAUs accredited till date are 59, faculties/ schools in central/state universities 8, and faculties/schools/ programmes accredited in private universities 7. The agricultural universities accredited during the year are: BUAT, Banda; CCSHAU, Hisar; MPKV, Rahuri; TNAU, Coimbatore; GADVASU, Ludhiana; CSK HPKV, Palampur; VNMKV, Parbhani; School of Agriculture, Lovely Professional University, Phagwara, Punjab; MAFSU, Nagpur; UBKVV, Coochbehar; Dr PDKV, Akola; AU, Jodhpur; IGKV, Raipur; Dr PVNRTVU, Hyderabad; KVAFSU, Bidar; DBSKKV, Dapoli; AMU, Aligarh; B.Sc.(Ag.) Programme in University College of Agriculture, Guru Kashi University, Bhatinda; M.S. Swaminathan School of Agriculture, Centurion University of Technology and Management, Odisha; College of Agricultural Technology, Kullapuram, Theni, (affiliated to TNAU); University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur; University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad; Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana; Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru College of Agriculture and Research Institute, Karaikal, Puducherry (affiliated to Pondicherry University); Palli- Siksha Bhavana, Visva-Bharti, Sriniketan; College of Agriculture, Lembucherra, Tripura (affiliated to Tripura University); Faculty of Agriculture, Annamalai University, Annamalainagar; Faculty of Agricultural Sciences, Siksha ‘O’ Anusandhan (Deemed to be University), Bhubaneshwar, Odisha; and School of Agriculture, ITM University, Gwalior. Ranking of agricultural universities: Ranking of agricultural universities was initiated to improve ranking of Indian universities in World University Rankings. Considering the unique position of agricultural education both excellence and relevance were taken into account for evaluation. The emphasis on parameters such as research product, research impact, research excellence, technologies transferred to farmers, spread/adoption of technologies and increase in agricultural growth in the area of jurisdiction of the university, etc. were also considered while evaluating the agricultural universities.