 Besides, through production constraint analysis, identified the bio‐physical and socio‐economic factors responsible for constraints faced by the farmers. 2005‐2006 Long term studies on the relative efficiency of Legume rotations over cereal‐cereal rotations: • The study at Raipur and Durgapura revealed that in addition to the recommended doses of nutrients, raising of green manure crop during summer is desirable and helpful in improving the system yield and also improves soil health. Comparative performance of different period bound rotations: • The yield of rice ranged between 5 to 5.4 t/ha in interruptive system during kharif in comparison to continuous rice with treatment yield of 4.75 t/ha at Sabour in sub‐humid ecosystem. Permanent plot experiment on integrated nutrient supply in cereal‐cereal cropping system: • In rice‐maize experiment, the application of organic recorded higher soil organic carbon, available phosphorus and potash as compared to initial soil status and farmers practice of rice cultivation. In case of maize‐wheat experiment at Ranchi continuation of experiments over 20 years, showed a decreasing trend of pH from its initial value. In case of pearlmillet‐ wheat system, the available nitrogen and organic carbon content were higher in treatments receiving 50% N through organic sources at S.K.Nagar, whereas the potassium content reduced drastically in almost all the treatments. The content values of available phosphorus were higher in treatment was less where integrated nutrient management practices were adopted. In pearlmillet‐wheat cropping system, the uptake of nutrients was higher in FYM treated plots as compated to green manure and wheat straw treated plots. Under rice‐rice system, the pH and EC were reducing marginally over years, whereas, there was increasing trend in OC in the soil. At Bhubaneswar and Chiplima, the P and K reduced from the initial values due to continuous cropping over years together. However, the available N increased. In rice‐wheat system, the continuous application of organic manure in conjunction with inorganic fertilizers improved/maintained organic carbon and available nitrogen in the soil. Soil pH did not deviate from initial values after 15‐20 years of experimentation. However, EC showed rising trend over initial values. Long term effect of continuous cropping on soil fertility and yield stability: • At Siruguppa in rice‐rice system there was a trend of increase in pH, EC, OC and available of major nutrients as compared to control with increment of fertilizer doses. Further, increase in N,P and K levels resulted in significant increase in yields over without replication. In rice‐ wheat crop sequence due to continuation of experiment over 25 years at Rewa, soil www.icar.org.