 All these have been released by the state government of Uttar Pradesh. Not only varieties but the grafting technology has also been used to mitigate the climatic effects. The tomato plants grafted on brinjal rootstocks tolerate water stress effectively. Such grafted plants are also provided to the tomato growers to mitigate the loss due to water stress in the field. To promote a healthy life on land, the IIVR, Varanasi, working as an active germplasm repository of vegetables, provides the genetic resources to different research organizations in the country. In the year 2021, the institute provided 782 accessions in 15 vegetable crops to 30 different research organizations for research and development of improved genotypes for the overall wellbeing of the masses. The IIVR, Varanasi has been promoting partnerships. In the last one year, eight partnership agreements have been executed with different research as well as development organizations. It will not only help to achieve the goal of quality education but will also be beneficial in delivering the farmer friendly technologies to the actual beneficiaries in larger areas. Some agreements have been executed especially with the private sector to multiply manifolds the improved varieties developed by IIVR, Varanasi so that the improved material is delivered to the beneficiaries. A collaborative programme with UNWFP and IIVR, Varanasi is also in the offing to develop model nutrition (kitchen) gardens and training of Master Trainers for schools of all the nine blocks of Varanasi district. For further interaction, please write to: T K Behera (Director), ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: tusar@rediffmail.com Indian Horticulture 6 Vegetable seed industry – Retrospect and prospects The vegetable seed industry annual market value by late eighties was around `400 crore of which vegetable seeds was about `40 crore. The Government realized that the seed act needs change to allow Indian farmers to have access to seeds of highest quality and genetics from the developed world. This brought in the Open General License Act in 1989 that allowed import of seeds from abroad for testing and sale in India and allowed full research and development within private sector- recognized by DSIR. The changes this act brought about in vegetable seed sector and how it has impacted our farmer’s productivity as well as total vegetable production will be detailed below under various crops where most research was focussed. Prospects Surinder K Tikoo* T he author has personally experienced the growth of the seed industry since over 50 years and seen its growth from being just producers and marketeers of publicly bred varieties to developing into full fledged research, product development, production, sales and marketing units comparable to the best in the globe.