 Orchid requires higher amount of Ca and Mg as compared to common plants. For young plants N application is high, for intermediate growth stages N, P, K applied at a balanced and equal rate, before flowering the rate of P and k need to be increased as compared to the N. 1. For young plants (1st year) 30:10:10 @ 0.05% should be applied; dissolving 0.5 g fertilizer having N:P:K composition as 30:10:10 in one litre water will prepare the solution. The prepared solution should be sprayed on the plant and potting materials at an interval of 15 days. 2. For intermediate growth stage (2nd year ), 20:20:20 @ 0.05% should be applied; dissolving 0.5 g fertilizer having N:P:K composition as 20:20:20 in one litre water will prepare the solution. The prepared solution should be sprayed on the plant and potting materials at an interval of 15 days. Also, calcium nitrate @ 0.05%, magnesium sulphate @ 0.1% , Iron sulphate @ 50 ppm, boric acid @ 50 ppm, zinc sulphate @ 50 ppm should be applied, at 60 days interval. For this, 0.5 g calcium nitrate, 0.5 g magnesium sulphate, 1 g iron sulphate, 50 mg boric acid, and 50 mg zinc sulphate should be dissolved in one litre water and sprayed on the plant and potting materials at an interval of 60 days. 3. At late growth stages (3rd year on word), N, P, K will be applied as 15:25:25 @ 0.1%; for this 1g of fertilizer having N:P:K composition as 15:25:25 or 10:26:26 should be dissolved in one litre water and sprayed on the plant and potting materials at an interval of 15 days. Pests of orchids Prevention is the best way of defence so plants must be checked periodically for pest and diseases. Insects and their management Scale insects are very small organisms (1–2 mm), they secrete a waxy coating for defence and resemble scales. Hard scale looks like tiny turtles. Soft scales may be found in dried sheaths at the base of pseudobulbs of Cattleya or similar plants. Hard scale will usually be under the leaves of Phalaenopsis or Cattleya, sometimes hiding in the pot. Those insects should be removed as much as one can see, then an insecticide may be applied. Mealybugs are white and look sort of cottony, may be 1/4” in size. They can be on or under the leaves, on flower stems, on buds, behind flowers, in the pot. Those insects should be removed as much as one can see, then an insecticide may be applied. Aphids are most persistent, reproduce on a 3 day cycle, small sap-sucking insects, varies in colour and they can fly too. They are found on new growth, new leaves, on flower stems and flower buds. In warm sunny weather the plant should be taken outside and shaken by garden hose to remove them from plants. Then the plant may be treated with an insecticide. Fungus gnats look like small black flies. They will remain hiding in the pot, and got attracted by potting material that stays damp, decaying plant material (dead roots, leaves). They may attack roots, especially those of Cymbidiums.