 Recently, Ministry of Statistics and Programme Implementation (MoSPI) and FAO, jointly organized a virtual workshop on FIES to discuss various methodological issues at facilitating the design of pilot surveys that will be undertaken in selected States and districts to ascertain the applicability of this tool in the Indian context. As this is not yet completed, we may not discuss it any further. FANTA was validated using FAST in Bangladesh, 2001. MFAST was also validated by IASDS in Banda district, 2011. FAST had 600; and MFAST had 8953 comparable households. The analysis indicated that both Access and anxiety are measurable. Overall, results of the two are not much different. Both FAST and MFAST had 9 questions seeking behavioral responses for individuals/households experiencing food insecurity. A close look into 9 questions points out that these can be remodeled into following 3 questions module: (i) The family ate means per day on a regular basis for last 15 days; (ii) Worried frequently (at least once in the last 15 days) about where the next meal would come from as the food stored in the house ran out and no cash to buy more; (iii) Had to take food on credit from a local store/ relatives or neighbors (at least once in the 15 days) to make a meal for the family or to serve a meal to guests or relatives; This type of MFAST can be easily canvassed by agencies like National Statistical Office (NSO) in India and by similar survey agencies across countries. It has the potential to be part of the consumption survey of NSO. To improve hunger estimation, more information can be added from secondary data on public distribution system (PDS) supply, natural disasters and related variables to assess the access component. Such data can be available from studies like food insecurity and food nutrition atlases that provide data on availability, access and absorption. Dietary and consumption surveys should be conducted every 3 years. This would allow evaluation of hunger status at a low cost without much difficulty. Similarly, hunger status should also be computed every third year. Key takeaways The current GHI ranking for countries is not the most appropriate methodology. Dietary and consumption surveys should be conducted in every three years. To improve hunger estimate FAST and MFAST indices need to be substantiated with information on PDS, natural disasters and related variables. 222 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 223 Social Issues and Sports Special Lecture Special Lecture 224 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 225 Special Lecture SAVE SOIL-THE WORLD’S LARGEST PEOPLE’S MOVEMENT Sadhguru Soil is the habitat upon which trillion of lives thrive. Once there is no richness in soil you have forsaken planet in many ways. We are addressing climate change, carbon emissions, air pollution and water scarcity, but are not focusing on soil, which is the basis of life.