26 t/ha over ZT wheat without residue retention and also reduced production costs by `3500–4000/ha and ultimately improved overall farm profitability by `5000–6500/ ha compared to conventional tillage wheat. The area under Happy Seeders was negligible in the year 2009 and it rose up to ~6,50,000 ha in the year 2019. Direct seeded rice reduces cultivation costs by around `5,000/ ha and reduces irrigation water use by 25% (30–40 ha- cm). Moreover, when wheat is grown after DSR, wheat productivity has been found to be 8–10% (0.5–0.6 t/ha) higher than when grown after puddled transplanted rice. Around 5 lakh area has been sown through DSR technique in Punjab during COVID time. Zero-tillage wheat has been accepted by farmers in Haryana and Punjab since late 1990’s and the areas under zero tillage in NW India reached up to 1.5 M ha without residue retention. SUMMARY Climate Smart Agriculture (CSA) based sustainable intensification has a potential to provides safety nets to farmers through reducing the risks of climate change with improving adaptive capacity against climatic risks and hence can potentially save public investments on insurance. Continuous adoption of CSA in intensive cereal systems has significant potential to improve system productivity, farmers’ profitability, soil health while reducing the environmental footprints. Continuous cultivation with CSA, 30 and 50% of N and K fertilizers can be curtailed and in-turn saving significant foreign exchange on fertilizer imports and contributing to Atma Nirbhar Bharat. The CSA based management practices may help in contributing to Government of India’s most of the farmer’s welfare schemes of doubling farmers’ income; improving soil health; more crop per drop etc. The CSA practices have wider practical applicability and scalability in any region. Its full advantages might be explored through G20 summit as it provides the opportunity to coordinate at the policy level to work towards agriculture stability and sustainability. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hsjat_agron@yahoo.com Residue management using Happy Seeder Mungbean a short-duration crop in paddy harvested field Impact of CSA technologies Residue management using Happy Seeder is one of the key elements for no-till planting while retaining Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.