 Furthermore, under the cereal-based intervention module, the disease-resistant, bio-fortified wheat variety DBW 187 was introduced over 11.88 ha in collaboration with 64 farmers in the adopted villages to increase returns. The demonstration plots achieved yields of 47.10 q/ha for partner farmers, compared to 33.13 q/ha in control fields, resulting in a 42% yield increase. Successful introduction of spring mungbean The area under spring mungbean cultivation is steadily increasing for additional income and improved soil fertility in the irrigated tracts of Uttar Pradesh. In the adopted villages of Hamirpur district, the prevailing cropping sequences included sorghum, sesame, pearl millet, urdbean, and pigeonpea, followed by wheat, chickpea, field pea, mustard, and lentil. Spring mungbean cultivation was previously not part of these cropping sequences. During spring 2024, mungbean cultivation was introduced over 12.80 ha in the adopted villages of Hamirpur district. A high-yielding and disease-resistant mungbean variety, IPM 410-3 (Shikha), was included in the technology package for demonstration. Initially, partner farmers were skeptical about this new crop. They were provided with quality seeds of the mungbean variety, recommended insecticides, and training on improved cultivation practices. The combined impact of these efforts resulted in high productivity levels for the spring mungbean crop in the project villages, generating additional income. The farmers achieved an average yield of 12.20 q/ha from demonstration plots, leading to an average income of `103,748/ha. Farmers, encouraged by the successful harvest and income from spring mungbean, plan to expand the area under cultivation in the coming years. SUMMARY Consistent capacity-building programs and advisory services under the Farmer FIRST Programme supported these effective on-farm interventions, increasing farm returns and income while introducing farmers to potential pulse production technologies for broader implementation. *Corresponding author email : director.iipr@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 51 October 2024 Cultivation of quality protein maize variety LQMH-1 enhanced the farmers income Raies A. Bhat*, K. M. Malik, Z. A. Dar and Zahida Rashid Krishi Vigyan Kendra Kupwara, Tangmarg, District Baramulla, Jammu and Kashmir 193 404 In the Kupwara district of Jammu and Kashmir, maize is a vital crop; however, low yields and poor seed quality have limited its potential. To address these challenges, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Kupwara, in collaboration with DARS Rangreth, SKUAST-Kashmir, introduced the Quality Protein Maize (QPM) variety LQMH-1 to enhance both the nutritional and economic well-being of maize-growing farmers. This initiative, launched in 2023, yielded notable success, with farmers achieving up to 70 quintals/ ha, significantly higher than the local average of 30 quintals. Alongside improved yields, the cultivation provided nutritious fodder, further benefiting livestock.