 1 22 Classical Swine Fever Vaccine (Lapinized, Cell Culture) yy Classical swine fever (CSF) is highly contagious devastating viral disease of pigs causing 100% mortality in affected pigs. yy In India, so far, lapinized CSF vaccine, produced in rabbits, is being used to control the disease by vaccination of piglets. yy From one rabbit, only 50 doses of vaccine can be produced, thus it is difficult to produce this lapinized CSF vaccine on a large scale. yy Realizing the problem, ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar has developed a cell culture classical swine fever vaccine in 2007 by adapting lapinized CSF vaccine virus in PK-15 cell culture system. yy 102.8TCID50 cell culture virus contains 100PD50 (equivalent to one dose of vaccine) dose of the vaccine. yy As the vaccine virus grows to the titre of 107.5TCID50 per ml in PK-15 cells, around 5,000 doses of vaccine can be prepared from 1 ml cell culture virus. yy The technology is suitable for large- scale production of CSF vaccine. Further, this avoids use of rabbits for vaccine production. yy The vaccine technology has a potential to meet national demand of CSF-Control Program in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. Punjab Veterinary Vaccines Institute. 2. Indian Immunologicals Ltd. 2 23 Classical Swine Fever Vaccine (Live attenuated Cell culture) yy Classical swine fever (CSF) is a highly contagious viral disease of pigs with 100% mortality and has a great economic impact on pig farmers. yy ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar has developed live attenuated cell culture vaccine for CSF using an Indian field isolate. yy This vaccine has a very high titre (1x109.5 TCID50/ml), so the cost of production will be very economical. yy The vaccine has been extensively tested for safety and potency and has been found to provide 100% protection. yy The vaccine has been found to induce protective immunity from day 14 of the vaccination till 18 months. yy This cell culture vaccine can replace the currently used lapinized vaccines which are being produced by using large number of rabbits for each batch. yy The cell culture vaccine can be produced on a large scale very easily. yy This vaccine will be of immense help to the CSF control programme already launched by DAHD (CSF-CP), Government of India. yy The vaccine is ready for commercialization. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com 3 24 D Vaccines for Horses 25 Equine Herpesvirus- 1 Vaccine yy Infection due to equine herpesvirus-1 (EHV1) in horses is the main cause of abortion, and respiratory and neurological diseases, thereby leading to heavy economic losses to the equine industry. yy Inactivated vaccine is generally recommended for immunoprophylaxis against EHV1.