 Optimization of parameters such as automated back pressure, carbon dioxide flow, modifier composition, extraction time and the temperature of the extraction vessel were optimized using Super Chrom SFC suit v5.9 software for extraction. Andrographis paniculata (Kalmegh): The solid–liquid extraction methods resulted in extraction of diterpenoids in the range of 9.76–66.95 and 3.55–33.42 mg/g for AP and neoandrographolide, respectively, however, for SFE, it was 131.82 mg/g for AP and 21.75 mg/g for neoandrographolide, respectively Cassia angustifolia (Senna): Senna is a high value crop and its whole plant is medicinally important mainly for its cathartic property. The active principles of the widely used senna extract are the anthraquinones, in addition to the senna specific dianthrones, called sennosides. Extract yield under optimized parameters of SFE (SC- CO2 flow rate (g/min) 30; Modifier (g/min) 4, Automated back pressure, 100 bar; Temperature 60º C and Extraction time 2 hour) was 100.9 mg/g and sennoside content (mg/g + SD) (SA= 1.48 + 0.18). Although the sennoside content was lower in SFE extract, however, some other major peaks were also recorded in this extract which needs identification. Withania somnifera (Ashwagandha): W. somnifera (commonly known as Ashwagandha), is being used in Indian System of Medicine for over 3,000 years in various forms (decoction, infusion, ointment, powder and syrup) and also in different parts of the world. Withanolides, polyoxygenated C28 steroidal lactones are the major chemical constituents of Withania species and are present in almost all parts of W. somnifera. Extract yield from SFE was 2.46%. TPC in the extract prepared by SFE was 2.92%. WA, 12WD, and WDA concentrations in SFE samples were 0.005, 0.231, and 1.101%, respectively. TPC in SFE extract was comparable with water-methanol (70:30) TPC (2.92%). However, total withanolide content was about 20.51 times higher in SFE extract. Phyllanthus amarus (Bhui amla): In recent years, interest in the plants of the genus Phyllanthus has increased considerably, especially regarding their therapeutic potential for the management of many diseases. P. amarus is one of the most studied plants due to its hepatoprotective properties. Process was optimized for preparation of extracts enriched with lignans (Ph+HPh+NT+NR), corilagin and ellagic acid. Garcinia species (Kokam): Garcinia species were investigated worldwide for a large variety of biologically active secondary metabolites. In India, 43 species and 5 varieties of Garcinia are reported. Garcinia species are a rich repository of diverse secondary metabolites such as xanthones, benzophenones, biflavonoids, flavonoids, biphenyls, acyl phloroglucinols, etc. More than 17 Garcinia species have been investigated by us for the search of anticancer compounds (polyisoprenylated benzophenones and xanthones).