 The cooperation of officials of line departments may also be obtained for wider publicity. Due attention must be paid to post-publicity of the event. Banners and flags may be put at the KVK campus for attracting the attention of farmers. 5. Layout of farm for demonstrations needs to be planned well in advance. Good crop stand of the kharif crops must be ensured for showing the worth of the technologies. For this purpose demonstration of crops, new varieties, technologies etc. may be given a thought. Display boards at each demonstration site including effective message and its economics need to be displayed at the instructional farm. 6. The Inauguration (1st day) and concluding (5th day) must be included in the programmes of Technology Week. Seminars need to be organized on thematic areas of local importance during the event and agro-based enterprises need to be focused. Experiences of progressive farmers, honorary training associates may be shared during seminars. LCD projector and screen along with comfortable seating arrangements for the visitors/farmers is necessary. 7. An Agricultural Exhibition may be organized during the event involving Public Sector Organizations, Private Companies and NGOs. Live samples, models may be displayed. Separate stalls for SHGs, banks may be installed. Individual farmers and farmers groups may be encouraged to exhibit their produce. 8. The event needs to include Sales Counters especially for agricultural inputs like seed, bio- fertilizers, bio-pesticides, improved implements, publications etc. 9. Drinking water and other civil amenities arrangements must be ensured. Boarding arrangement of farmers/visitors can be made available on payment basis during the event. 10. Wider participation of farmwomen is needed for the event. The responsibility may be given to the Home Scientists of KVKs. 11. Documentation of the event with respect to number of visitors, visits of VIPs, seminar proceedings, feedback of visiting farmers/extension personnel/other stake holders, news clippings, photographs etc. need to be maintained and copy of the same should be sent to Zonal Project Director. The KVK scientists working in a complex environment require regular updating of knowledge and skills in terms of advancement on the technological front relevant to the district. Besides managerial skills like communication, coordination, leadership, project management, process documentation and team building are required along with motivational and attitudinal changes for better performance. In this regard the following capacity development activities may be taken up: ●The ZPD should be the main hub of human resource development for KVK staff. ●The ZPD should prepare the schedule of training plan for KVK staff annually based on the training need assessment. ●Subject matter training should be organized to the KVK scientists to operate and maintain the farm and demonstration units established in KVKs.