 Therefore, India has greater responsibility to uphold his ideas in the present scenario and contribute to the realization of a world without class, conflict and deprivation. Non-violence, peace and truthfulness shall continue to guide world development policy and bringing a change at all levels in the governance and public service. A large part of Gandhiji’s ideas can be used for making the life and livelihood of rural people in developing countries. Both Asia and Africa, the regions where he spent most of his time, need greater focus as most of the poor people, hungry and disadvantageous people live in these regions. The same also holds true for Latin America for higher economic inequality. The development of rural livelihoods and human capital in these regions is closely linked with agricultural development. This can be well-understood by milestones set for Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) of the United Nations (2015). Several SDGs, viz. no poverty, zero hunger, reduced inequality, life below water and on land, are directly related to agricultural development. In the Indian context, the Government has also identified the areas for interventions to achieve SDGs, and the concentrated agricultural and institutional development efforts are targeted for the 171 Aspirational Districts (Niti Ayog 2020). This approach in a way reiterates Gandhiji’s thought of deliberate attempt in the approach and actions to serve the rural poor. His major Satyagrah of Champaran in 1917 after his return to India was to protect the interest of poor peasants. This approach has been followed by important political and social leaders for the welfare of farmers and other rural workers. Gandhiji had a significant impact on the working of establishment and development institutions also. For instance, Gandhiji thought of rural-centric institutions and initial experience of Sriniketan (West Bengal) on community development led to the establishment of agricultural and rural institutions, which were also later developed as agricultural universities on the pattern Land-Grant System of the US. These principles were also adopted by other institutions like 2 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Since ICAR and agricultural universities have greatly contributed to agricultural development through the green and other revolutions, these institutions have emerged as champions of agricultural and rural development. ICAR has followed the Gandhian principles in its working, research approach and targets. It has a network of research institutions and most of them are located in the production environment close to the mandate. These institutions work in partnerships with clients and farmers. A good number of them are mandated for unfavourable production environment and resource-poor farmers in tribal and hilly areas.