 Chaithra ICAR-National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 030 Azolla is a free floating water fern. It can be grown with just rainwater, without addition of soil, dung or phosphorus. Among different species of genus Azolla, A. pinnata is popular. The higher crude protein content (over 23%) as well as presence of essential amino acids (lysine), vitamins like A and B12 and minerals like calcium, phosphorous, potassium and magnesium made Azolla a useful feed supplement for livestock. Daily feeding of one kg of fresh Azolla increased average milk yield by half a litre per cow besides improving the fat content. Keywords: Azolla, Milk yield, PVC pond, Supplemental feed D AIRYING is one of the major economic activities in the adopted villages under the Farmer FIRST Program of ICAR-National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology (ICAR-NIANP) in Bengaluru (rural) district of Karnataka. ICAR-NIANP developed an easy to adopt technology for the production of Azolla by using harvested rain water. In this method, there is no need to add either soil or dung to grow Azolla. As Indian Farming 74 (11): 36-37; November 2024 rainwater contains traces of nutrients to support the growth of Azolla, even the addition of phosphorus once in two to three weeks is not necessary. Azolla cultivation with rainwater in PVC ponds Ready-to-use Azolla ponds of 12 feet long and 4 feet wide size made of durable poly vinyl chloride (PVC) were distributed to the dairy farmers in Timmojanahalli Luxurious growth of Azolla with rain water in PVC pond Azolla pond covered well with mosquito net Indian Farming 37 November 2024 village in Doddaballapur taluk. Half-cut PVC pipes were placed at the edge of roofs and connected to a pipe, and the rainwater collected was stored in a large plastic tank kept on the ground. Harvested rainwater was used to fill the PVC ponds and they were covered on the top with a white mosquito net to prevent the fall of debris like dried leaves, fruits and other litter. Old gunny bags were placed at the bottom of ponds to prevent any damage from sharp stones, roots, weeds etc., and thereby, to increase the longevity of the ponds. One kg of Azolla culture was provided to each farmer as the starter dose for cultivation. Feeding of Azolla to milch cattle After 10 days of addition of culture, the ponds were completely covered with Azolla. From each pond, the farmers were able to harvest about one kg of fresh Azolla every day and it was fed to the cows in two equal instalments, in the morning and evening. As Azolla was grown with rain water and no dung or soil was used, cleaning it with water was not needed before feeding it to the livestock. The average crude protein content in Azolla was 23.8%. In the beginning, Azolla was mixed with concentrates and fed to the cattle for a week to make them accustomed to the smell of new feed ingredients. Later, the cattle were relishing Azolla, even when it was fed without mixing.