 Alternative cropping systems must be designed so that, in addition to better production and profitability, they also behave as efficient energy converters. Although energy requirement of some high value crops are higher because of involvement of additional cultivation practices, but the energy output balances the energy input-output relationship. Weed dynamics Weed density and weed dry matter are affected by different cropping sequences. As the rice- based cropping system is diversified and intensified with multiple high- value crops, weed density and weed dry matter both decrease. Researchers found that weed density was significantly lower in rice–potato–greengram followed by rice–berseem–cowpea and rice– cabbage–fodder cowpea. It has been observed that incorporating short- term leguminous crop or potato into the rice-wheat system efficiently controlled weeds without the use of herbicides or human weeding. Risk management and nutritional security Farm families in this country severely suffer from malnutrition and protein, mineral and vitamin deficiency. Therefore, intervention with high-value vegetable crops and other fortified crop varieties with higher nutrient content is an option for providing nutritional security to the farming community. Crop diversification is an effective strategy for dealing with any unfortunate crop failure. Having high-value crops in a system, on the other hand, not only reduces risk but also improve farmers’ economic condition. Nutrient management Cereal based cropping systems are exhaustive in nature as they are the heavy feeder of nutrient. Hence, proper nutrient management is crucial for getting maximum output of these cropping systems. Addition of leguminous vegetable crops enhances soil quality and enriches the soil with biological nitrogen fixation. Therefore, diversifying the traditional cropping systems with high-value leguminous vegetable crops have significant impact on increasing system productivity. SUMMARY The concept of sustainable agriculture heavily relies on crop diversification. It is a transition from traditionally less profitable crops to more profitable ones. The large number of resource-poor small and marginal farmers in the rice-wheat cropping systems of the Indo- Gangetic plains may benefit much from diversifying their cropping system by engaging high-value crops. It not only improves the productivity and profitability of a system but also alters the monotony of rice-wheat system. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: priyankasaha9933@gmail.com Physical chemistry of soil and soil mineralogy are the two pillars which form the basic foundation of soil science. Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility.