 The physio- chemical analysis reveals that it can be a better alternative to few tropical fruits in terms of nutrient supplementation. Apart from this, it may be considered as a profitable future crop for the farmers in India especially for niche markets. Apart from farmers point of view, there are a few other drawbacks, viz. abiu plants are fragile (softwood) in nature, having poor shelf-life with browning of pulp during post transit stage and only few southern states grow this fruit as a backyard crop which is lesser known to fruit lovers of metropolitan cities. Empirical appraisal of agro-climatic requirements of the crop, profiling of potential tropical humid areas in parts of southern India through application of GIS tools for area expansion needs consideration. Such efforts need to be appropriately backed up by introduction of elite genetic resources of this crop already available especially from the South East Asian countries. Undertaking awareness programme among the growers, consumers and entrepreneurs regarding the potential of these fruits in the local and export markets, development of trait-specific superior types (sturdy tree, better shelf-life post transit), crop production practices including pests and diseases management, post-harvest management and value- addition protocols are the critical needs for promoting this crop for fruit crop diversification and sustainable livelihoods of the growers. CONCLUSION A paradigm shifts in consumption pattern of fruits amid heightened health consciousness following post COVID era made the underutilized nutritious fruits a path breaker in the market. The present market appeal, exotic taste, health benefits and consumers preference indicate that new generation fruits have good potential for commercial exploitation in the future; hence needs due attention. It is almost unknown to other parts of India. Hence, the market can easily absorb through production of ‘Abiu’. The increase in area and production of new generation fruit crops like abiu will not only provide nutritional security but also expected to boost the region’s economy. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Karunakaran Ganesan, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka 560 089. *Corresponding author: avojack2023@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 12 W ORLD pecan production was estimated at 154,266 metric tonnes in 2022-23 with 9% increase from 2021-22. Production was led by Mexico (44%) followed by the USA (40%) and South Africa accounted for 10%. Globally, a record of 88,565 metric tonnes of shelled pecans was traded in 2021. Mexico and the USA remain as the top world pecan suppliers, accounting for virtually 99% of the world exports. India imports ~95% of pecan nuts to meet the demand of its rural as well as urban population. According to the New Mexico Department of Agriculture, India imported ~30% of pecan nuts of total tree nuts from the United States of America worth value $544,761 (2018-19).