 Gandhiji though on Swaraj or self-rule showed a realistic sustainable development, which can be accept without sacrifice the quality of life. He thought that mass production by individual is not better that production by masses, which lead to development of an economical system with less harm to environment, which help in achievement of sustainable development. He talked about holistic sustainable development and taught his followers the problems of ecology, pollution and exhaustion of non-renewable resources. He emphasized that man must recognize the necessity of cooperating with nature and conserve the natural resources of earth for the continuation of human civilization. Animal life and human life are totally interrelated and both need each other for long survival because science and artificial technology are incapable of providing for the continuity of human life by substituting its methods of those of nature. Gandhian holistic ideas included Trusteeship, Swadeshi, Self-sufficiency, Bread Labour, and 99 Village Swaraj (Gandhi 1959). According to Gandhiji Every peoples on this planet has natural right to get basic necessities of life, just like animal, bird, if someone have more than that, it considered as a trustee of God’s people (Patil 1983). Necessarily, it implied a specific lifestyle, the lifestyle of simple living and high thinking. In order to encourage the best possible use of local raw materials, skills and workforce, to encourage occupational equilibrium, ecological balance and cooperative living, he wanted the villages to be the decentralised economic units. With the aid of local resources, the village will be able to generate whatever is needed and would be intended with whatever has been generated in closer surroundings. Mahatma was a strong advocate of conservation of natural resources. He emphasized the importance of man-and-environment relationship on natural resources and its conservation. He said Gandhi Ji said nature is the best example for inspiration and I do not need inspiration from other accept nature, she never failed me as yet, she mystifies me, bewilders me, sends me to ecstasies.” The importance of Gandhian philosophy is well-felt in the present period in which the lifestyle of human beings has been developed in a direction of high consumerism and generation of waste. The ideas of Satya (truth) and Ahimsa (non-violence), so profoundly promoted by Gandhiji encompassed all living beings. Once, Edward Thomson, English historian said to Gandhiji that wildlife was rapidly diminishing in India. Gandhiji, in his characteristic sarcastic way replied, “Wildlife is decreasing in the jungles, but increasing in the towns.” His concept of Sarvodaya, what we say ‘sustainable development’ today, implies a healthy development and environment. What he preached and practiced corresponds to what we today call eco-friendly development.