 With good management practices, survival of 30-50% is achieved at fry stage. ŠŠ The breeding technology has been mainly extended to the state of Kerala. 22 Singi Heteropneustes fossilis (Bloch, 1794) ŠŠ Singi or stinging catfish is available all along the Indian subcontinent and is regarded as a potential high-value species for aquaculture diversification. It grows to a size of 200g. ŠŠ Breeds in captivity during monsoon season, but seed procurement from natural resources is very difficult. For hatchery seed production, brooders are raised in earthen ponds or concrete tanks, partly covered with macro-vegetation and given feed with 32-35% protein. ŠŠ Mature females are identified by bulged abdomen and round vent, and males have slender body and pointed anal papilla. ŠŠ Fully mature females and males are segregated in the ratio of 1:1 for breeding. Females are injected with hormones like Ovaprim/Ovatide/GonoproFH @ 1ml/kg body weight or pituitary extract @15-20 mg/kg. ŠŠ Stripping is generally done 12 h post injection. The male milt-suspension in normal saline is prepared prior to stripping. Stripped eggs are mixed with milt-suspension and washed 3-4 times with water. ŠŠ Eggs are spherical, dark-brown, adhesive having diameter of 1.4-1.6 mm and incubated in flow-through hatchery where hatching occurs in 22-24 h. Generally, the fish lay 1,500-2,000 eggs/g ovary weight. ŠŠ Newly-hatched larvae are 2.6-2.8 mm in length. Yolk-sac is absorbed on the fourth day. Larvae are, reared at a density of 3,000-5,000/m2 for 12-13 days in the hatchery. They are fed with mixed zooplankton or Artemia nauplii or tubifex worms to get 12-15 mm size fry. ŠŠ The breeding and seed production technology has been extended to almost all the states of the country. Compiled by: Dr S.K. Sahoo and Dr S. Ferosekhan More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 23 Compiled by: Dr P.P. Chakrabarti and Shri Arabinda Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in Indian Butter Catfish Ompok bimaculatus (Bloch, 1794) ŠŠ Indian butter catfish, a small-size fish species, is a popular and high value food fish of eastern and north-eastern states of the country. It is distributed widely in Indian sub-continent and south-east Asian countries and listed under endangered category. It is the State Fish of Tripura. ŠŠ Attains maturity during the first year and spawns from May-August in flowing waters. For captive breeding, brooders are raised in earthen ponds @ 40,000 nos/ha. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and well distinguished. Males have prominent genital papilla and rough pectoral fins, whereas females have smooth pectoral fins and bulged belly. ŠŠ Ripe brooders weighing above 80 g males and 120 g females are most suitable for induced breeding. Ratio of 1:2 female to male is taken for induced breeding.