7 MT per lactating animal comparatively low as compared to other states like Punjab, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh productivities, where it is 2.4 MT, 1.1 MT, 1.0 MT, and 0.8 MT per lactating animal, respectively. This lower productivity of milk is attributed to many factors and to a large extent on the Indian Farming 74 (03): 35-39; March 2024 availability of feed and fodder to the dairy animals. The availability of concentrate and fodder are directly linked with agricultural crop production system of a particular area in the state. Availability of crop residues is further declining due to adoption of high-yielding dwarf varieties / hybrids and field wastage due to extensive use of grain picker / mechanical harvester in cereal crops. The main reason for green fodder deficit is the low green fodder yield and lesser allocation of lands for cultivation of fodder and pastures. Importance of green fodder in village-based production system Traditionally, green fodder is natural feed stuff and it serves as a cost-effective nutrient source for majority of the dairy animals contributing to their overall health and enhancing breeding efficiency. It is highly nutritious, palatable, rich in minerals, vitamins and an economic source of macro-and micro-nutrients. The primary sources of animal feed in the village area of Bihar consist of rice straw, wheat straw, and certain pulse residues without much provision of green fodder. Recent studies conducted in the Indo-Gangetic Plain of the state have Indian Farming 74 (03): 35-39; March 2024 Round the year fodder production model or small and marginal farmers of Bihar for small and marginal farmers of Bihar Dharmendra Kumar’, Pragya Bhadauria2*, Anjani Kumar?, Rajesh Kumar’? and R K Sohane* ’Bihar Animal Sciences University, Patna, Bihar 800 014 ?(CAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Patna, Bihar 800 014 $Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur, Bihar 813 210 Bihar relies heavily on agriculture as its primary source of wealth, playing a crucial role in the overall development of the state's economy. The state government has given utmost priority to the advancement of agriculture. However, the insufficiency of fodder and feed resources in the state has been acknowledged and articulated on numerous occasions. A shortage of feed and fodder stands as a significant obstacle to sustainable livestock development in the state, directly impacting the income and livelihoods of numerous resource-poor livestock keepers. Various constraints, such as the scarcity of feed, fodder, and concentrates, hinder the potential of livestock, leading to substantial losses in terms of production and depletion of livestock resources. In view of this, KVK Banka has promoted village based round the year fodder production model by integrating various approaches to overcome the shortage of fodder and ensuring a consistent supply of green fodder throughout the year for livestock keepers.