 However, relatively few studies explore the link between women’s work in agriculture and their own nutritional outcomes. Estimates from cross-country datasets show that women spend about 32 percent of their time on agricultural activities such as transplanting, weeding, harvesting (FAO, 2011). They are also solely responsible for unpaid activities in many contexts - like cooking, cleaning, collecting fuel, fetching water, and caring for children/family. For instance, women in India spend an average of 300 min in unpaid work on a typical workday and about nine times more in unpaid work than men (Charmes, 2015). Given the multiplicity of roles, women face constraints on their time due to competing demands between paid and unpaid work. Recent literature notes that women’s increasing role in agriculture may negatively impact nutritional outcomes because of time trade-offs with household food preparation (Johnston et al., 2018). Providing and ensuring a nutritious meal within a family is a time and resource- intensive process (Hyder et al., 2005). An increase in time spent on agriculture/income-generating activities translates into less time for household production activities. These time trade-offs can be measured through the opportunity cost of time, i.e., earnings forgone by a woman for every minute spent in unpaid activities, vis-a-vis paid work. Further, these associations are likely to vary across agricultural seasons. Seasonality plays a crucial role in the division of tasks across gender and also time allocation. During peak seasons of agriculture * Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: vidyav@iima.ac.in (V. Vemireddy), plp39@cornell.edu (P.L. Pingali). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Food Policy journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/foodpol https://doi.org/10.1016/j.foodpol.2021.102074 Received 11 January 2020; Received in revised form 8 March 2021; Accepted 9 March 2021 Food Policy 101 (2021) 102074 2 relative to lean seasons, the increased demand for women’s time (greater opportunity cost) can further affect nutritional outcomes. Yet, we find no studies that explore the role of women’s time trade-offs in explaining their nutritional outcomes, such as diet quality across seasons. This paper presents evidence on seasonal time trade-offs between agricultural and household activities for women and consequent nutri­ tion outcomes. We hypothesize that during peak seasons, relative to lean seasons, women face severe time-constraints which are negatively associated with nutritional outcomes such as the consumption of calo­ ries, fats iron, protein, zinc and vitamin A. Our primary research objective is to investigate the relationship between women’s seasonal time trade-offs and their nutritional outcomes. To do so, we interpret time trade-offs through the opportunity cost of time of women in agri­ culture. We use women’s intake of calories, proteins, fats, iron, zinc, and vitamin A as nutritional outcome variables.