 Because of growing demand and adoption of precision farming technologies, watermelon is no longer a summer crop alone but is also being grown during other parts of the year. As the production levels rise, it is important to find new and remunerative markets to increase the farmer’s income and retain his interest in the crop. Therefore, an effort was made to develop an export value chain for watermelon to the remunerative markets of Dubai. Export of watermelon under Fit Fresh company Fit Fresh is a company in UAE producing high quality cold pressed juices, smoothies and fresh made salads catering to retail chains, high end restaurants and Dubai airport. They have tied up with AVPR exports and imports in India to procure fresh watermelon fruits. In 2020, Fit Fresh approached ICAR-IIHR for technical guidance in this regard. Hand holding was done by scientists of IIHR over the last two years for successful shipments to Dubai. The details of technical support included: y Plot selection criteria based on good agricultural practices viz., mulch sheet, no use of weedicide, drip irrigation, use of border maize rows, trap flower crops, pest monitoring with sticky traps and need based chemical sprayings, neem based IPM package, honey bee boxes for pollination and quality fruit set, no spraying during last 15 days of harvest etc were provided to earn the trust of the importer. E Sreenivasa Rao1, M Pitchaimuthu1, B Varalakshmi1, Manjunathagowda D C1 and D V Sudhakar Rao2 Success story Indian Horticulture 40 y Irrigation management at harvest, judging the right harvesting stage and quality testing procedures were practised to maintain desired quality at destination. This included fruit size grading of more than 3 kg, dark rind colour, intensity of red colour of flesh with narrow white margin, TSS of fruit with >13% at the center and >10% at the margin of fruit. y Transport was carried out in reefer containers of 20 tones capacity. Based on storage trials at ICAR- IIHR, 6-10oC was adopted for cold chain. Harvest and loading happen in early hours of the day. As watermelon rind can withstand weight upto 80 kg, expensive pallet packing was done away and sponge sheet was provided at the bottom of the container. This made it very economical for the exporter, without loss in quality, increasing the volume of fruits per container and reducing logistic costs. y The container reaches Mumbai Nhava Sheva port from farmers’ fields by truck and then loaded onto ship. It takes 7 days to arrive at Fit fresh factory in Dubai. Temperature loggers are used to confirm the temperature maintenance for cold chain during transit. Quality testing at destination is carried out to the satisfaction of the company. Now the exporter is operating in Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. It exports atleast 50 tonnes every week for maintaining a regular supply. The local farmers are also happy as they are being paid in the range of ` 9-10/kg and earning around ` 2 lakhs/acre.