 Salient achievements • CICR has developed and released 63 cotton varieties/hybrids including 15 Bt and 4 Naturally coloured cotton varieties. • CICR developed and patented the Bt detection kits • Developed and disseminated High Density Planting System (HDPS) for enhancing cotton productivity on marginal soils under rainfed conditions 7 Crop Science 7 • Strategy for management of white fly successfully implemented in north India with reduction in whitefly infestation by more than 80% • Male-sterility technique for hybrid seed production, management of mealy-bugs, enhancing cotton yields on calcareous soils, low cost machineries for small farmers, inter cropping with legumes, cover crops for weed management and conservation agriculture were standardized for widespread dissemination 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders a. Insecticide Resistance Management (IRM)/ Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategies for pink bollworm; in 08 states covering 21 districts involving multiple stakeholders. b. E-Kapas programme: Voice messages on cotton cultivation technologies are being sent on the mobile numbers of over 4 lakh registered farmers in 10 major cotton growing states c. Weekly advisories to cotton farmers provided by the AICRP on Cotton Centres/CICR, Nagpur. Trainings of trainers, farmers and other stakeholders: on cotton production and protection Extra Long Staple Cotton Variety : CCB-51- An alternative to Suvin CICR-H Bt Cotton 60 (Yugank Bt) 8 ICAR Institutes Profile 8 ICAR-Central Research Institute for Jute and Allied Fibres 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-CRIJAF, Barrackpore, Kolkata-700121 (W.B) ii. Name of the Director : Dr. Gouranga Kar iii. Email address & Phone No.: director.crijaf@icar.gov.in/ 91-33-25356124 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research on improvement of jute and allied fibre crops for biotic and abiotic stresses, yield and quality. • Development of economically viable and sustainable production technology, cropping systems and post-harvest technology. • Coordination and monitoring of applied research on national and regional issues to develop improved varieties and technologies. • Dissemination of technologies and capacity building. Activities • Breaking Yield Barrier for genetic gains (breeding, pre-breeding, biotechnology) • Bridging Yield Gap and Area expansion of jute and allied fibres (biotic-abiotic stress management, farm mechanization, ICT-based extension and agro-advisory) • Fibre Quality Improvement (breeding, pre-breeding, retting /degumming/ /nanotech) • Ecosystem services, value addition, diversification and ‘Wealth from Waste’ from JAF crops • Profiling of immunity-boosting bioactive compounds for food & medicinal use of Jute & allied fibre crops. 3.