 India has also done well in climate policy initiatives and limiting the unbridled expansion of climate-altering land cover.” Such reports are generated with the help of: (a) baseline data from different systematically categorized regions/zones, (b) studies on how climatic aberrations affect agriculture, and (c) how such regions/zones respond to, and offset the effects of climate change. Keywords: Agro-ecological region, Climate change, Sustainable agriculture I NDIA is characterized by heterogeneous landforms, climatic conditions and soil types. Combinations of these factors dictate the length of growing period and choice of crops. These factors have therefore contributed to the delineation of the entire country into relatively homogeneous regions, with a view to guide policy makers in formulating strategies to combat climate change and minimize its impact on agricultural production in the country through better understanding of soil, climate and crop interaction at different scales of planning. This led to the division of India into agroclimatic zones (Planning commission) and agro- ecological zones (ICAR-NBSS&LUP). Incidentally, the first agro-ecological region (AER) map of India was published in 1992. This article discusses the evolution of agro-ecological zonation, how the AER boundaries have changed over the years, and how India is improving its understandings of the operative parameters that are impacting our livelihood. Agro-ecological zonation in India India’s dependence on monsoon for agriculture and hence food security is well known. Further, the adaptability to monsoon behaviour is often limited by typically smaller land holdings of resource-poor farmers making them highly vulnerable. Developing climate- resilient agriculture in the country is a formidable challenge to planners, technocrats and researchers alike. The target of producing about 455 million tonnes Indian Farming 73 (06): 13-16; June 2023 of food grains in 2050 from the present level of about 323 million tonnes (Ministry of Agriculture 2023) is a frightful challenge for the country. Achieving this level of production is essential to nourish the estimated population of 1.6 billion in 2050. By then, the per capita land holding will go down to an abysmally low 0.087 ha, posing a serious concern. In 2050, cropland available for production may be reduced by 20% due to land degradation, urban expansion and conversion of cropland to non-food production. To arrest land degradation and promote sustainable agriculture with multiple crops of high productivity, National Policy on Agriculture (NPA) recommended agro-ecological region-based agriculture planning. Several attempts have been made to classify the land area into climatic regions. FAO (1983) has given the concept of agro-climatic zones and agro-ecological regions. An agro-climatic zone is defined as a land unit that is uniform with respect to climate and length of growing period (LGP).