 reuteri before and after encapsulation Cr6+ detection device (IMAGinE) Calibration Curve of Cr (VI) developed Device Specification: • Stabilized and specific receptor • 96 well plate enabled • Single board computing module • Camera module • Android based mobile GUI • LED array for optimum lighting • 10000 mAh power bank • LxBxH: 18.5 cm x 10.5 cm x 14.5 cm IMAGinE: an IoT enabled Image analyzer Traceable value chain for safe pork in the North Eastern Region of India: A protocol was made after standardising all the features related to capturing the facial image of the animals. Facial images of pigs from different pig breeds of different age groups after weaning were captured. Algorithms were developed to amplify certain hidden features in the face. The features- based image recognition algorithms like Local Binary Patterns Histograms (LBPH), Histogram of Oriented Gradients (HOG), Principal Component Analysis (PCA) and Support Vector Machine (SVM) was applied for individual pig recognition. Some machine learning algorithms were applied to same-breed image sets and the Support Vector Machine (SVM) has been given better prediction accuracy (97%) compared to others. Faster R-CNN was also applied on the same image sets for prediction of breeds and it produced 91% accuracy with a 94% confidence level. A total of 105 diseases of pigs with typical lesions were tabulated for the ante mortem exam (AM) of pigs and 83 diseases of pigs of either sex with typical lesions was tabulated for the Post- mortem exam (PM) of pigs for the Decision Support System (DSS) for pig slaughtering. Novel approaches for disease free health certification in finfish and development of high health shrimp for sustainable aquaculture: For developing MAbs, serum immunoglobulins (sIgs) of three Indian major carps, Labeo rohita, Catla catla and Cirrhinus mrigala were purified by affinity chromatography. Healthy fish were immunized with bovine serum albumin (BSA) to induce anti-BSA antibodies. Purified sIgs analysed by SDS-PAGE revealed two bands of ~80 kda and ~27 kDa, corresponding to heavy chains and light ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 160 chains, respectively. Gel filtration chromatography of the sIgs revealed mixture of tetramers, dimers, monomers and half-mers in the purified preparation. These sIgs was used as an antigen to develop monoclonal antibodies. Effective dosage of prebiotic and inulin was determined for development of high health shrimp providing better growth and disease resistance. A dose of 20 g/kg inulin coated on the feed showed 22-32% higher growth and prolonged survival to WSSV challenge than control. Expression of immune and growth genes was higher in experimental group. Metagenome analysis indicated higher bacterial diversity in the gut of experimental animal than in control. Bacillus subtilis isolated from the GIT of healthy shrimp was evaluated as probiotic by two methods, either by coating the feed or as one of the feed ingredients.