 The major areas of gender gap identified were–equally paid for the same amount of work done (82.5%) in social aspect; BMI (body mass index) of female is at par with recommended BMI (92.5%) in health and nutrition aspect; equal access, control over land and water’ (72.5%) in environmental aspect; ‘avail loan from financial institutions (87.5%) in economic, and knowledge in carrying out crop production and post-harvest activities (57.5%) in technological aspects, respectively. A three-tier approach for Gender Sensitive Agri-Horti cropping system model, was developed for livelihood upliftment, nutritional enhancement and entrepreneurship development. Highest benefit cost ratio of vegetables, was observed in Brinjal (3.41) followed by chili (3.20). In crop module the benefit ratio in paddy was highest in var. CR-Dhan 312 (2.46) followed by var. Pradhan Dhan (2.29) and var. Maudamani (2.25). from anywhere and anytime. A 4-tier automated redressal process flow is built to act for speedy and favourable redressal of these grievances in a transparent and effective way. Automated notification system, real time monitoring and tracking of grievances by the complainant is also facilitated through the system. • “KISAN-SARATHI”- System of Agri- information Resources Auto-transmission and Technology Hub Interface, is an Information Communication and Technology (ICT) based interface solution with an ultimate goal to an intelligent online platform for supporting agriculture at local niche with national perspective. This also intends to provide a seamless, multimedia, multi-ways connectivity to the farmers with the latest agricultural technologies, knowledge base and the pool of large number the subject matter experts. This has been launched during 93rd foundation day of ICAR on 16th July, 2021 to support the emerging need of multi-ways and multi-lingual communication among various agricultural stakeholders. This initiative will be implemented in phased manner by ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR and Digital India Corporation, MietY, Government of India. Currently the services have been started in four major states of India, viz. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, and Uttar Pradesh. Significant attainments showcased at country level • The President of India, Shri Ram Nath Kovind virtually conferred the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi with the ‘Digital India Awards – 2020 (Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MEITY), Government of India)’ under the Open Data Champion category. The ICAR was felicitated with the Gold Icon Award for its Research Data Management Portal. This portal is developed, strengthened, and maintained by ICAR-IASRI as lead centre in partnership with other Institutes.