 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 26 Kalpana Yadav* Microgreens: An ultimate superfood Microgreens are new generation smart food products whose popularity is increasing with time. Microgreens are tiny edible greens obtained from different kinds of vegetables, herbs, and plants. Microgreens are popularizing as new culinary ingredients. Microgreens have a higher content of vitamins, minerals, and many bioactive compounds and more nutritious than their mature plant parts. Microgreens do not require specific nutrients for growth and can be grown throughout the year. Prospects T HE lifestyle changes associated with the improved standard of living in terms of social, economic, and cultural standards have led to the major lifestyle associated problems including diseases and nutritional deficiencies. The non-availability of fresh and pesticide residue-free vegetables for consumption is a big problem in the future. The urban populations are mainly dependent on long food chains that begin in distant rural areas limits the availability of produce that has short shelf-life and poor shipping ability. As a result of that, many urban populations reside in areas classified as ‘food deserts’, where people do not have ready access to fresh agricultural products like fruits and vegetables and also lacking complete package of essential nutrients and depend mainly on processed and packaged foods. Increased health consciousness associated with lifestyle changes has created a vast demand for functional food globally. Microgreens are considered ‘practical nourishments’ which are food items that have explicit wellbeing advancing and infection forestalling properties, that are extra to their typical healthy benefits. These are additionally named a decent wellspring of minerals in the human eating regimen. Microgreens are an arising class that can tackle practically all the medical conditions identified with wholesome lack. The culinary value of microgreens rose high in the past decades owing to its high nutrient content, versatility, flavor profile, and crisp texture imparted to the dish. What are microgreens? Microgreens are young and tiny seedlings of vegetables and herbs, harvested when cotyledons (seed leaves) are fully expanded and the first pair of true leaves are emerging or partially expanded. The size of these microgreens is ranges from 1-3 inches (2.5−7.6 cm) in height which usually occurs within 7–14 days after germination, which varies from crop to crop and variety to variety and other environmental conditions. It has three basic parts; a central stem, two cotyledon leaves, and typically the first pair of very young true leaves.