 The breeding males should be given an extra allowance of concentrate feed particularly grains during the mating period. Deworm the animals at regular intervals. It is advisable to repeat deworming after every 3-month completion of previous deworming. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 109 Poultry Poultry house should be designed in such a way to provide all the comfort required by birds during winter. An east-west alignment of a rectangular house provides a maximum gain of solar energy in winter. House should be designed in a way that maximum sun light enters the shed during daytime. Birds should be protected from chilled winds, for this gunny bags should be hanged at the places from where the cold air enters. These gunny bags should be hanged down as soon as sunlight goes in the evening till the arrival of sunlight next morning. November Month Cattle and Buffalo This month is indication of starting the low environmental temperature compared to normal days. In case of loose housing system, use curtains around the animal house. The curtains can be made from tarpaulin, bamboo, dry grass, paddy straw, jute bags, guinea bags, etc. Reduce humidity to ensure better ventilation, preventing excessive moisture in sheds, roof dripping and ground freezing phenomenon. Hypothermia is a major risk in this season for neonatal calves, and housing, feeding, and hydration are key considerations for minimizing hypothermia. Lukewarm water should be provided for drinking purpose. Calves should be fed with more milk. Increase the feedings per day from two to three times, while holding the amount per feeding the same. Cold weather increases feeding needs of animals. Deworm the calves at regular intervals ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 110 To prevent mastitis, continue to dip the teat in potassium permanganate after every milking for whole of the season. Maintain heat detection as a priority particularly in buffaloes for natural or artificial insemination. Vaccinate the animals for foot and mouth disease, if not vaccinated previously. Sheep and Goats In severe cold weather, goats can crowd together for warmth, but this increases the likelihood of injury and respiratory diseases, so prepare a good shed for them before winter season. Sheep and goats should be dewormed multiple times a year to guard against stomach and round worms. Deworming should be done in November or December, and in the cases of high parasite load, deworm again 30 days later to break the lifecycle of the stomach worms and round worms. Sheep and goats tend to gain more weight during winters; therefore, care should be taken to provide them with sufficient ration and pastures for grazing or browsing. Lukewarm water should be provided for drinking purpose, especially to kid/lamb. Animals that have no shelter in winter season provide 30 percent more feed per day than animals that have access to shelter from the wind. Poultry Around 6 inches of litter is needed in poultry houses during winter.