 Teasel gourd Rapid method for multiplication of Guggul (Commiphora wightii): Air layering was standardized ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 83 CROP MANAGEMENT metabolite identification. Chemometric models like OPLS-DA and PLS-DA confirmed species identity. Pair-wise OPLS-DA models for T. cordifolia against T. crispa and T. sinensis were created. Seven biomarkers, including jatrorrhizine, corydine, and ecdysterone, differentiated Tinospora cordifolia from other species. The models were validated with test and market samples to ensure authenticity. Polyphenolics/antioxidants and biochar from waste biomass of Ocimum sp.: A process for dual utilization of distillation as a source for polyphenolics/ antioxidants and biochar from tulsi was standardized. By-products from distillation (biomass waste and deodorized water) of two Ocimum species, O. sanctum and O. basilicum were repurposed. Phenolic compounds were extracted using different solvents with 50% aqueous methanol yielding the highest extraction yield, total phenol and flavonoid content. This extract exhibited the strongest antioxidant activity (IC50 of 94.02 μg/mL for O. sanctum and 89.48 μg/mL for O. basilicum). After extracting bioactive compounds, the remaining biomass was pyrolyzed to create biochar with a porous structure, providing a high surface area for soil microbiota support and acting as a potential soil amendment. Vitamin D enrichment in Hypsizygus ulmarius (Elm oyster) mushroom: Technology for the Vitamin D enrichment of Hypsizygus ulmarius (Elm oyster) mushroom was developed. Fresh mushrooms, when subjected to 5 minutes of UV light (100 W), had a in guggul. Pencil-sized shoots were ringed, wrapped in coco peat and moss, and enclosed in polyethylene sheets. Air layering showed faster and more successful rooting (30 days) compared to semi-hardwood cuttings (65-70 days) in both seasons. The rooted layers were transferred to nursery bags and then to the main nursery, making air layering a simple and quick method for guggul conservation. Air layering in guggul Three chrysanthemum genotypes, viz. OPCH 12-7; OPCH Double White and DFR C-2 identified as highly attractive, floriferous and rewarding genotypes for honeybees. The genotypes can be used for preparation of floral calendars to improve pollinator’s health and habitat restoration. Pollens from bee-friendly flora can be used as a dearth-season diet for honey bees. Multiplication and marketing of such bee-friendly flower OPCH 12-7 DFR C-2 OPCH Double white Attract Apis cerana, A. florea and A. dorsata Relative abundance of bees: 39.5 bees/ m2/min Foraging rate of bees: 4.5 flowers/min Foraging speed of bees: 23.67 seconds Attract Apis cerana and A. florea Relative abundance of bees: 58.33 bees/m2/min Foraging rate of bees: 6.83 flowers/min Foraging speed of bees: 20.33 seconds Attract Apis cerana and A. florea Relative abundance of bees: 55.67 bees/m2/min Foraging rate of bees: 5.5 flowers/min Foraging speed of bees: 17.