 Such an effort has also helped in recovering the species from the IUCN status of ‘Near threatened’ to ‘Least concerned’ at present. Similarly, the promotion of pengba during the last decade has helped its spread from north-eastern states to Odisha and West Bengal. Olive barb, kalbasu and pengba are also being promoted by the National Freshwater Fish Brood Bank (NFFBB) established in Bhubaneswar by the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). Species like fringed lipped carp and kuria labeo have also been promoted in the culture sector in different states, but the adoption of the latter has not been so far impressive due to its slower growth. Whereas, the exotic silver barb has been widely adopted in many Indian states. Initial faster growth, wider feed acceptability, small head size, and good appearance, besides auto-breeding habit, have been the advantages for its growing adoption of farming along with major carps. Research over the years has led to the development, refinement and standardization of a host of technologies with varying production levels depending on the input use. Specific low input-based farming involving aquatic macrophytes-based carp polyculture, and biogas slurry-fed fish culture could also demonstrate impressive production levels of 3-4 t ha-1 yr-1. Multiple cropping, with two crops in a year, single stocking-multiple harvest, and multiple stocking-multiple harvests are some of the culture systems which proved to be advantageous over the year-long mono-cropping practice. Striped catfish has become the second leading cultured species after the Indian major carp group in the pond culture system and is also a prime choice for cage culture in the open waters. Although the species had an illegal introduction during the 1990s, the higher growth potential, culture feasibility at high-density under monoculture, and most importantly the government nod that was given for its culture in 2005 after due environmental impact assessment study have helped its expanded farming. Andhra Pradesh has been at the forefront of striped catfish culture where the area coverage has steadily increased since the early 2000s to reach the maximum of 32,000 ha in 2010 with yield levels of 17-20 t ha-1 (Belton et al. 2017). Under an intensive culture setup, with the use of floating feed, higher yield levels of 40-50 t ha-1 are also often reported. Of late, increased adoption of the species in other states viz., Chhattisgarh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, etc. under both pond-based and cage culture systems, however, has led to reduced market price, leading to shrinkage of area coverage in Andhra Pradesh (Belton et al. 2017). Pacu is another important species widely adopted by the farmers despite its pending government approval. The increased popularity of the species has paved the way for its entry into the seed supply chain. With the start of its culture in the West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh in 2004 (Ramakrishna et al.