 West Nile virus and JEV infection in ducks: The extent of WNV infection in domestic ducks in Kuttanad region, was investigated. In Kerala, 95 (45%) of 209 ducks were found positive in WNV Ab ELISA. End point neutralizing antibody titre revealed WNV specific antibodies in 11.5% ducks in 3 districts, JEV specific antibodies in 21 (10%) ducks in 2 districts, and flavivirus specific antibodies in 9% ducks. Persistence of WNV and JEV activity was in wider areas in Kerala than previously reported; it may help the public health authorities in formulating surveillance programmes in the region and domestic ducks may be useful captive sentinels in monitoring WNV/JEV activity. Genetic and antigenic analysis of border disease virus: Pestiviruses isolated from sheep and goats in India thus far have been bovine viral diarrhoea virus 1 (BVDV-1) or BVDV-2. The virus isolated in years 2009-10 was characterized at genetic and antigenic level. Phylogenetic analysis typed the Indian border disease virus (BDV) isolate as BDV-3. A more detailed analysis showed that the Npro (168), C (100 aa), Erns (227 aa), E1 (195aa) and E2 (373 aa) proteins were of size characteristic for BDV reference strain X818. Antigenic differences were evident between the BDV- 3 isolate and previously reported BDV-1, BDV-5 and BDV-7 strains. This is the first identification of BDV Trichinella spp. infection in wildboar and wild felids Trichinella sp. infection is reported sporadically from India in domestic and wild animals including civet cats, bandicoots, shrews, Indian mole rat and domestic pigs. Recently, Trichinella sp. infection was detected in the carcasses of a wild pig (Pilibhit, Uttar Pradesh), two leopards (Bahraich and Shahjahanpur, Uttar Pradesh) and a tigress (Kheri, Uttar Pradesh). Molecular biology techniques were used for species level identification of Trichinella recovered from the carcasses of the wild animals by adopting the protocols of multiplex PCR and by sequence analysis of Mt- lsr, 5S rRNA and ITS-2 regions of genomic DNA. Based on multiplex PCR results as well as the nucleotide sequence analysis of the mitochondrial large sub unit ribosomal DNA (Mt-lsr) and 5S intergenic spacer region DNA fragment (5S ISR), mixed infection of T. britovi and T. nelsoni was confirmed in all the four cases. In one leopard, besides T. britovi and T. nelson, T6 genotype of Trichinella sp. was also identified by multiplex PCR. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 77 in sheep in India, which highlights the need for continued pestivirus surveillance and assessing its impact on sheep and goat production. Global proteome analysis of H5N1 infected lungs: In order to understand the difference in the molecular pathogenesis of H5N1 virus in chicken and ducks, comparative proteomics approach was used. LC MS/ MS was carried out and the global proteome of HPAIV H5N1 infected lungs at 3 time points post infection was profiled.