 Trusteeship: Gandhiji said that rich would be the stewards of trusts who should take care of the needs of the community in general. Gandhiji was deeply moved by the hardship and wretched circumstances of the rural people, due to the centralization of wealth in the hands of the bourgeoisie class. In his words “everything on this earth belongs to God and is from God. Therefore, it was for this people as a whole not for a particular individual. Everybody on this earth has a natural right to at least the basic necessities of life, just like the birds and the beasts have. If somehow, an individual had more than his proportionate share, he was a trustee of that portion for God’s people” (Gandhi 1947). He argued that the rich would not be able to amass the wealth without the support of the poor. Hence the poor must use the weapon of non-violence and non-cooperation to part the wealth equally, which in turn ensures prosperity. 3.2. Swadeshi: Swadeshi is the ethical principle underpinning an autonomous self-sufficient economic system. In Mahatma’s words Swadeshi means “spirit in us, which restrict us to the use and service of our immediate surroundings to the exclusion of the more remote” (Gandhi 1942). From an economic point of view, conforming to Swadeshi doctrine creates the opportunity for a democratized self-sufficient economy. Buyers and sellers would have a stake for each other and collaborate each other in the upliftment of local areas by utilizing the local resources. He insisted that only those commodities that cannot be produced within a particular village should be brought from other village. This would create a strong love for local products and an altruistic behaviour towards the neighbours, which in turn would raise the standards of local farmers and artisans (Joshi 2002). Decentralized economic divisions would thereby make it simpler for the utilization of local resources such as raw materials, manpower, ensuring employment for all, thus creating a sustainable equilibrium and a cooperative living. Compliance to the doctrine of Swadeshi contributes to a proper economic order and peace. 3.3. Self-sufficiency: Self-sufficiency should be the primary objective of rural development according to Mahatma. In order to encourage this ideology, he tried to create a favourable attitude towards Swadeshi among the villagers. He promoted self-sufficiency as a foundational philosophy of life because dependency would lead to deprivation; the root cause of violence. He advocated that villages must be self-sufficient, i.e. cultivating their own crops, spinning own clothes, and other things required to satisfy their basic needs on a cooperative basis (for example, cooperative farming, spinners cooperative) for saving time, energy and resources 185 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead as well as protecting their own rights (Panda 1991).