 aeschynomene, is used in Arkansas, Mississippi, and Louisiana to control Aeschynomene virginica (northern joint vetch), a leguminous weed in soybean. Biotechnological methods: Herbicide-tolerant crops offer broad- spectrum weed control, reduce crop injury and phytotoxicity, and reduce herbicide carry-over effects on succeeding crops. However, there is a problem with herbicide- resistant weeds that must be addressed through integrated weed management and new biotechnological innovations. The only herbicide-tolerant pulse crop is glyphosate and glufosinate-tolerant soybean varieties. These crops have been engineered to withstand specific broad-spectrum herbicides that kill neighbouring weeds without harming the cultivated crop. Improved resource conservation technologies-cum-weed control methods Conservation tillage (Zero/ minimum tillage): Conservation agriculture (CA) is being promoted and adopted to achieve sustainable crop intensification. The most important aspect of CA is conservation tillage, which is thought to protect soil health, plant growth and the environment. The retention of 30% surface cover by residues is typically used as the lower limit of classification for conservation tillage, but other conservation goals for the practice include conservation of time, fuel, earthworms, soil water, soil structure and nutrients. The CA has paved the way for pulse cultivation in diverse cropping systems. Crop residue retention on the soil surface can limit weed seedling emergence, extend the period of emergence, and allow the crop to gain an advantage over weeds in zero tillage (ZT) systems. Bed planting (Narrow/broad beds): Crops are grown on raised beds separated by furrows in bed planting. Beds are generally 0.6–1.0 m wide, with 2–3 rows of crops planted on the beds. This planting method reduces weed populations on the tops of beds. Thus, weed management, which primarily affects the furrows, becomes easier. Furthermore, bed planting methods save seed, water, nutrients and other inputs while increasing resource- use efficiency. These methods also make crop diversification easier. Residues retention for mulch: Permanent or semi-permanent crop/ plant residues cover on soil, which can be a growing crop or dead mulch, serves to protect soil physically from sun, rain and wind, as well as to feed soil biota/microorganisms that take over tillage function and soil nutrient balancing. Crop residues have a significant impact on the physical, chemical and biological properties of soil. Several studies have found that ZT with residue retention improves weed control in grain legumes by suppressing weed seedling emergence. It may also reduce the need for herbicide applications. Micro-irrigation: Drip irrigation can provide a limited amount of water to the area immediately surrounding the crop root zone, limiting weed growth.