 This practice is widely used by farmers of Magari area of Kathua district (Jammu and Kashmir). Keywords: wild tobacco, cough, jaggery Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2619 Treatment of cold and cough in animals For the treatment of cold and cough in animals, about 50 g fresh rhizome is ground properly to extract the juice. Then 50 g jaggery is added. The mixture is drenched once daily for 2-3 days. Keywords: cold and cough, rhizome Shri Pitamber Behera Mahulapadar, Boden, Nawapoda (Orissa) 2579 Use of simlu to cure fever in animals The leaves of simlu (Birbiries asiatics) are used by the people of Dharal area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir to reduce/ cure temperature of animals. The leaves are collected and fed as such to the animals. Keywords: simlu, fever in animal Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2560 Use of branker (Adatoda vesica) to cure fever in animal Leaves of branker (Adatoda vesica) are used by the people of Dharal of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir to bring sweat from the animals in case of fever. Keywords: branker, fever in animal, sweat Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and  Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2584 Use of bana (Vitex negundo) leaves for curing animal fever Sometimes animals fall ill because of fever and avoid consuming fodder also. For curing the illness, the farmers of Balakot area of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir feed the affected animals with leaves of bana. Bana is a Agriculcommonly grown shrub. Keywords: bana leaf, fever Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2544 Use of betel leaves and pepper against acute infection On acute infection, farmers are using betelvine leaves and pepper since 7 years. This is given orally to the animals in the initial stage of infection.