 Chandrasekher Science is an intellectual and practical activity encompassing a systematic study of the structure and the behavior of the physical and the natural world through observation and experiment. In traditional science, there was no organization, such as ICAR or DST and also there was no financial support, even for research. It was driven through personal passion. The researchers or scientists used to spend their own money. The first scientific observations were on sky, stars, planets and supernovas. Discovery of telescope by Galilio Galelei was a facilitator in these studies. Knowledge and understanding of various aspects of creation documented at length in the ancient texts is unmatched till date. One phenomenal Scientist was Sushruta, who taught the world the art of surgery, long before the advent of modern medicine. James Watt’s steam engine and his studies of variations in temperature led to start of chemistry as a scientific discipline; John Black discovered carbon dioxide by heating white magnesia; Henry Cavendish identified presence of hydrogen and told that water is not an element, it is a compound; Joseph Priestley identified the presence of oxygen and its importance; Wilhelm Roentgen discovered X-rays (and we all know its importance at the hospitals); Marie Pierre Curie discovered radioactivity ( lost her life due to aplastic anemia caused by Dr S. Chandrasekher is presently the Secretary of the Department of Science and Technology, Government of India. His significant contributions are in the area of synthetic organic chemistry, especially in chiral chemistry and total synthesis of biologically active natural products (marine natural products with architectural complexity). 168 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series the exposure to radiations). It was the strong will of these scientists which led to different inventions. This all was the result of their hard work, farsightedness, passion and determination to never give up even after many failures. Contributions of the scientists in the field of healthcare and agriculture have increased life expectancy world over. Many diseases which were thought to be non- curable have been brought under control or have been eradicated. By the year 2030, one would expect more targeted therapies; and practitioners would also be able to predict the condition and likely consequences of the patient being diagnosed with a disease or health and there would be shift from treatment of symptoms to prevention measures and complete cure. In future, prevention would play a vital role. Agriculture has progressed with three major revolutions and made us self- sufficient in food at present— 1. Neolithic – change from hunter /gather’s society to farming. 2. British-industrial evolution 3. Green revolution . And selection breeding has increased meat yield and size of maize corn from intermediate to modern type.