 More emphasis has to be given on characterization of millets germplasm for nutritional parameters. There is an urgent need for evaluation of millets germplasm in adverse agro-climatic conditions of the country to identify the climate resilient germplasm. Increased demand for millets is created through creation of awareness owing to conduct of special drives and campaigns on the benefits of millets among the consumers. However, availability of millets to the poor may be enhanced through inclusion of millets in public distribution system. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: elangovan@millets.res.in Indian Farming 61 January 2023 Improved agronomic practices for enhanced productivity of small millets R Swarna*, C Deepika, B Amasiddha and S Srividhya ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Small millets termed as nutri-cereals hold great promise for food and nutrition security amid burgeoning population and climate change. Nutritionally, these are superior to the cereals in terms of protein, minerals and amino acids. In India, small millets are largely cultivated under resource constraint conditions resulting in low crop productivity. Thus adoption of improved agronomic practices is the key to increase their productivity and project them as golden crops of the future. Keywords: Agronomic strategies, Millets, Production M ILLETS are small seeded annual cereal grasses and are the oldest and first crops to be domesticated and cultivated. They are classified into major (sorghum, bajra) and minor/small millets (finger millet, foxtail millet, proso millet, barnyard millet, little millet, kodo millet and brown top millet) based on their seed size and extent of cultivation. They are a staple food with superior nutritional qualities compared to other cereals and thus referred as “nutricereals”. India is one of the major producers of millets in the world and accounts for more than 40% of the global consumption. Small millets are idyllic crops to cultivate in diverse soils, climates and harsh environments and require low inputs. Their grains contain higher protein, fibre, calcium and minerals than the widely consumed fine cereals, and can ensure nutritional security to the poor people who can not afford dietary diversity. These crops are last standing crop in times of severe drought and are considered as wonder grain that has a capability to enhance nutritional security in the country. Despite their nutritional qualities and climate resilience, the area under small millet cultivation is declining due to shift in area to other remunerative crops, lack of awareness and low production levels. The need of the hour is to focus on enhancing cultivation and increasing production through improved agronomic practices. Selection of improved varieties/cultivars Development of high yielding varieties with wide adaptability resulted in increased production despite the decline in area under cultivation.