 Thermal degradation behaviour of plasma treated mustard stalks and raw mustard stalks biomass was analysed at four heating rates (10, 20, 30 and 40oC/min) with the help of TGA analyser. The rate of degradation of hemicellulose and cellulose was higher for 4 h treated materials as compared to raw mustard biomass. It is mainly because of weakening of bonds due to thermal degradation. Hemicellulose, cellulose and lignin bonds are weakened by plasma treatment which results in early degradation of bio-polymer. Biomass based hot air generation system for crop drying: The developed hot air generator is equipped with biomass combustor, heat exchanger and drying chamber. The hot air generator unit was integrated with drying chamber (25 kg loading capacity). The trials have been performed for drying of 11 kg tomatoes in the developed system. After cleaning and sorting of tomatoes, they are cut into ring size (5 mm thick) and spread over the trays of drying chamber. 55 kg of biomass fuel was consumed during the drying process. The moisture content of the tomato was reduced from 95% to 15% in 14 h drying time. Drying temperature was maintained at 60-65⁰C inside the drying chamber by controlling feed rate of fuel and regulating the flow of ambient air at the inlet. The drying efficiency was obtained around 31%. Agro-residues based bio-sorbent for the treatment of Bulk Milk Chiller (BMC) effluents: An agro- residues based bio-sorbent for the treatment of Bulk Milk Chiller (BMC) effluents has been developed. The bio-sorbent was prepared through pyrolysis of agro-residue under controlled environment. The agro- residues such as sawdust, groundnut shell and cotton stalk are potential ingredients for preparation of bio- sorbents. Quality of the BMC effluent water in terms of COD (mg/l) has improved (1,300 mg/L to less than 250 mg/L) with the help of selected feedstocks. This treated effluent has shown the compatibility with the quality water specified by the Central Pollution Control Board (CPCB). The treatment using developed bio- sorbent through adsorption process is capable to convert the BMC effluent into the irrigation quality water. The cost of bio-sorbent prepared through pyrolysis of agro- residues is 33% less as compared to the commercially available adsorbent. Robotic arm for Apple harvest For harvesting apple using robots/mechanical systems, it is imperative to detect apples at faster inference speed in real field conditions. Mini-robotic attenuator consisting robotic arm developed at lab level for picking and placing apples. The developed robotic arm is controlled by raspberry pi and supports 5-degree of freedom consisting of elbow, shoulder, wrist and neck. Gripper has the potential of handling 1-1.5 kg of products softly without damaging. System can operate 10-12 items in 1 min to pick and place.