 Over the years, ICAR evolved an effective and well-tested frontline extension system at the grass-root level, which is exemplary and admired all over the world. Mahatma’s principle of cooperation and partnership is deeply embedded in the KVK scheme of ICAR. The first Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) was established in Pondicherry in 1974. The earlier frontline extension programmes were merged into the Krishi Vigyan Kendra scheme in 1982. 5.2. National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) The National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) was launched with financial support from the World Bank in 1998 to strengthen and complement the existing resources of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and augment its output. Major objective of this project was to accelerate the flow of technology from research and extension to farmer, improve location specific and robust technology dissemination, decentralize decision making and strengthen the public extension system. Institute Village Linkage Programme (IVLP) enabled technology assessment and refinement in participatory mode with direct interaction of technology generators with the end users in villages (Sulaiman and Van den Ban 2000). The project helped to generate a basket of location specific and small production system-oriented technologies which are more productive, profitable and gender sensitive for drudgery reduction of farm women. Technology integration involves a set of activities that must happen when new scientific agricultural information is put to use in any farm production system (Singh et. al., 2003). The project served three distinct types of agriculture, namely, commercial, green revolution and Complex, Diverse and Risk prone (CDR) agriculture. The Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) was started under NATP in 1999. The Centre provides diagnostic services, agro-advisory and inputs like seeds, plant materials, etc. through single window system. The ATICs were designed as demand-driven, financially viable models (Mondal 2013). 5.3. National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) Based on the experiences of NATP, ICAR introduced The National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) in 2006 with the assistance of World Bank. The project focused on innovations Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 162 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR in agricultural technology and transforming Indian agriculture through poverty alleviation and income generation approach. Collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations with the active partnership of public organizations, farmers groups, private sector and other stakeholders was envisaged. 5.4. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) Scheme Krishi Vigyan Kendra scheme of ICAR evolved over time for meeting the expectations and emerging challenges faced by the farming community. As of now, ICAR has established a total of 721 KVKs across the country.