 Approximately 96% of the total N requirement, 87% of the total P2O5 requirement and 99% of the total K2O requirement could be met within this model thus making it a self- sustainable one. Ten high yielding stress tolerant crop varieties were released for north eastern hill region. Fly Cocobot-a drone-based remotely controlled unmanned gender-friendly coconut harvesting and crown-clearing machine for safe harvesting of coconuts was developed. This device can be used in mixed cropping plantation of coconut and black pepper. The machine is conceptualized jointly by ICAR-CCARI and Goa University and have operational efficiency of 12-15 palms/hr. IP, Organization and Management: During the period under report, 78 new Patent Applications were filed making total to 1,455 applications. Indian Patent Office (IPO) had published ICAR’s 37 patent applications in this period and granted 47 patent applications, taking ICAR’s cumulative number of granted patents to 455. In this process, 31 ICAR institutes were involved to protect their innovations. To protect the Plant Varieties, 31 varieties (19 extant and 12 new varieties) were filed at Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA). For applications filed earlier, 21 varieties (19 extant and 2 new) were granted registration certificates. The cumulative total for plant variety protection applications rose to 1,381. Total 661 formal Licensing Agreements were formed up with 452 public and private organizations and entrepreneurs involving 55 ICAR institutes. Eighteen ICAR institutions entered into 80 agreements for consultancy/contract research and services with 75 public and/or private organizations. To enhance the agri-business environment 494 stakeholders were facilitated by 50 ABIs for their business incubation activities and motivated entrepreneurs/startups to initiate their own business. In reporting period these centres had facilitated 449 such stakeholders for their business incubation activities. These efforts motivated 146 Overview icar annual report 2022-23 15 entrepeneurs/startups to initiate their own bussiness. The Rajbhasha saptah/pakhwara/mah was organized at ICAR Headquarters and its institutes. The Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara was organized during 16 to 29 September 2022 which was marked by inspiring messages of Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and the Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and appeal by Director General, ICAR to use Hindi the maximum in their official work. Under the Cash Award Scheme of Official Language, 10 personnel were given cash awards for doing their maximum work in Hindi during 2021-22. The Council also implements three more awards at its own -Rajarshi Tandon Rajbhasha Purskar Yojana, Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika Purskar Yojana and Dr Rajendra Prasad Puraskar Yojana.