 Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 15 Circular/ rectangular sowing for increasing crop yield Farmers in the hilly areas grow a crop in a circular or rectangular pattern of rows instead of straight line sowing. This method requires more seeds. Farmers believe that this method of sowing gives more yield due to higher plant population (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Taral (1991) 16 Sowing of whole groundnut pods to facilitate germination after rain In Saurashtra, land-holdings are generally large because of low value of land and lower population density. A farmer, on an average, cultivates groundnut in about 20 to 30 bighas (about 3 to 5 ha). This requires large quantities of seeds for sowing. It is believed that seeds separated from pods by threshers have low germination rates because threshing damages the embryo. Hence women spend 2 to 3 weeks time manually separating seeds from pods for sowing. In some regions of Jamnagar district, where minor irrigation facility is available, groundnut is grown before the monsoon.Others noted that pods that remain in the soil after harvesting germinated automatically after a shower and accordingly decided to sow whole groundnut pods instead of seeds. After furrows were covered by light planking, the fields were irrigated lightly before the rain (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Godhani (1995) 20 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 17 Hot water for better germination of wheat and plant protection Hot water is stored in a vessel with a wide open neck, which is to be left uncovered. In the morning the seeds are soaked for some time before sowing. This ensures that the seeds sprout quickly and also protect the crop from pest attacks (Trichy, Tamil Nadu). Anonymous (1991f) 18 Coated seed for better germination of pulse crop To increase the nutrient content, drought tolerant capacity, germination percentage and vigour of pulse seedlings grown after paddy crop in the same field, locally avilable leaves are used to treat the seeds. Leaves of Calotropis karuvel (Acacia nilotica), pongam (Pongamia pinnata) and neem are crushed and dissolved in water. Pulse seeds are mixed well with the leaf extract. The seeds are kept aside overnight for uniform coating of the extracts on the seeds. Next day the solution is drained and the seeds are dried in sun for two hours. These seeds are then broadcasted in the field (Pondichery). Babu (2000–2001) 19 Seed soaking in water/kerosene oil for better germination of cotton Cotton seeds are soaked in water a night before the sowing. The soaked seeds are treated by the soil which is collected from the termite burrow. Some farmers of the arid Banaskantha immerse the seeds in kerosene oil for better germination (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Anonymous (1991g) 20 Crushing of coriander seeds for better germination Corainder seeds in Kinnaur of Himachal Pradesh are crushed by trampling upon by leather shoes before sowing for better germination.