 Problems occurred during fertigation process The centre at Dr. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Maharashtra has two polyhouses: GI polyhouse of area 644 m2. and Bamboo polyhouse of area 740 m2 Capsicum was cultivated inside the GI polyhouse and fertigation was given by the following t fertigation methods and the problems raised are stated below: Firstly, three stock solutions were prepared, viz. A, B, and C with the help of our own developed nutrient management calculator. Solution A, contains calcium-containing fertilizers, solution B, contains phosphate and sulfates containing fertilizers and solution C, consists of micronutrients. Care was taken that calcium-containing fertilizers shouldn’t mix with the phosphates and sulfate-containing fertilizers to avoid the formation of precipitates that would clog the entire system. The following method was used after experiencing all the drawbacks of the readily available fertigation devices to give the fertigation: Direct dosing of the fertilizers to the irrigation pipelines with the help of the Gattu water pump: As stated above, firstly three stock solutions were prepared. At the time of fertigation, the necessary amount of fertilizer solutions was drawn from the respective tanks into the plastic bucket to inject into the irrigation line. By forcing the concentrated fertilizer solutions with the help of 0.5 hp single phase Gattu pump water, soluble fertilizers were mixed into the (online) irrigation pipeline and fertilizers were allowed to flow Venturi injector Source: www.growinsane.com Fertigation tank Source: Jain irrigation Dosing Pump Source: www.dosatron.com Fertigation with the Gattu pump of 0.5 hp Source: AICRP-PEASEM, Dapoli Fertilizer filled bucket Gattu pump with 0.5 hp capacity through the irrigation pipes to the individual crop entities. The following problems occurred during the use of this method: • Fertilizers were not uniformly mixed inside the irrigation water; as electrical conductivity Indian Farming 9 July 2023 found at the first plant of the first row was not equal to that at the last plant of the last row resulting in uneven growth of the plants. • Problems occurred during the injection of concentrated fertilizers with the irrigation water, as the pressure of the irrigation water i.e., (Monoblock pump of 1.5 hp) was sufficiently more than that of 0.5 hp Gattu pump. So, there was the need to either reduce the pressure of the parent pump or shut off the parent pump during the injection of fertilizers and then it had to shut on after the injection had been completed. It was labour-dependent, time- consuming and complex work. The best solution for precision fertigation Taking all the limitations and flaws of the existing fertigation systems into account, we have developed and installed three stages user-friendly and cost-effective irrigation cum fertigation system on the research farm of the Centre.