 Some farmers can also rear prawn. The fishery can also be started by digging fish ponds for which the Government can help these farmers by providing financial help through bank. The training of fish farming is available at Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Ujwa. Delhi has its past record of fish production of 0.61 thousand MT in 2008 to 0.68- 0.71 thousand MT in 2015 with ups and downs like 0.82 thousand MT and 0.69 thousand MT in the years in between. Projection of fish production in 2017 was 0.71 thousand MT. Delhi has 150 km of river and canal front. The Delhi government has identified 24 water bodies for auction, suitable for fish farming. The Fisheries Unit has consistently been encouraging fish culture in the water bodies and village ponds of the national capital to overcome the problem of encroachment on such water bodies situated on gram sabha land. Under the provision of Delhi Land Reforms Act, 1954, Gram Panchayat has to develop activities such as poultry farming and fishery. The Fisheries Unit has produced 18.25 lakh fish seeds and 680 metric tonnes of fish this year, according to Delhi government data. It has 15 nursery ponds covering a total water area of about two acres, wherein the unit produces and procures fish seed, rears them to fry and fingerling size and stocks in public and private waters. The unit also leases out specific water portions for fishing every year under rules and regulations laid down in Indian Fisheries Act 1897 and Fisheries Act 1914. Domestic waste water could be used for fish culture as initially done in East Kolkata wetlands. According to Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, the east Kolkata wetlands provide a living for some 50,000 cultivators and fish traders, most of them small-time private entrepreneurs who earn an income rearing 10,000 tonnes of wastewater-fed fish a year. The method is followed in many Indian cities as well as many countries. Preliminary treatment done or not, insolation breaks down the pollutants and subsequent heavy plankton growth leads State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 129 to ample food supply for fishes leading to exponential growth of fish. Vermicompost production: Vermicompost is an organic manure (bio-fertilizer) produced as the vermicompost by earth worm feeding on biological waste material; plant residues. This compost is an odourless, clean, organic material containing adequate quantities of N, P, K and several micronutrients essential for plant growth. Vermicompost is a preferred nutrient source for organic farming. It is eco- friendly, non-toxic, consumes low energy input for composting and is a recycled biological product. It is an environment friendly technology. a) Small-scale or home systems Such systems usually use kitchen and garden waste, using “earthworms and other microorganisms to digest organic wastes, such as kitchen scraps”.