 Several researchers reported the potential of crop residue-based biochar application for N2O mitigation ranged 40–50%. RCTs are the most cost- effective strategy to mitigate GHGs emission, whereas, integrated N management cost higher. Most of the RCTs except no tillage, mid-season drying and alternate flooding reduced the net income of the farmers. Enhancing carbon sequestration in agriculture: The CO2 mitigation from agriculture can be achieved by increasing carbon sequestration. Carbon sequestration is the long-term (30 years or more) capture and storage of carbon in the soils and perennial plants that would otherwise be emitted to the atmosphere. For assessing carbon sequestration in agricultural soil, all the three GHGs, both organic and inorganic carbon, whole soil profile rather than surface soil needs to be considered for assessing C stock, and all components of agro- ecosystems and their life cycle should be assessed. For management of soil for carbon sequestration, firstly, the amount of carbon needs to be increased in soil system by crop residue retention, growing perennial crops/trees, and by addition of slow degradable C sources such as biochar. Secondly, added soil organic carbon needs to be protected by reducing decomposition rate with zero tillage/reduce tillage and cover crops. The carbon sequestration potential of agricultural soils in India is assessed to be 300 to 620 Mt. Relative change in the soil carbon stock, and soil organic carbon (%) due to various sustainable RCTs are mentioned in Table 2. The recommended doses of N, P and K sequestered 0.16 Mg C/ha/yr compared to no fertilizer addition. Compared to conventional agricultural practices, carbon sequestration potential of various RCTs ranged between 0.16 Mg C/ha/yr in zero/no tillage to 3.22 Mg C/ha/yr in biochar. Biochar, organic manure, and compost application enhances SOC pools, and under their long-term application the effects may persist for a century. However, soil carbon sequestration is a big challenge in tropical and subtropical climate where the rate of carbon mineralization is very high. Agro-forestry and plantation of perennial crops or trees make carbon sequestration more sustainable rather than soil. Table 1.