 Some of the essential points as also limiting factors required for cultivating rainbow trout (Fig. 2) in the upland regions are as given under. • It grows well in waters with a higher dissolved oxygen content and temperature range between 10 and 20°C. The fish may not survive at temperatures above 25°C, hence, it is imperative to culture the fish only in the higher hills. As the temperature rises and dissolved oxygen in the water decreases, fish begins to experience stress. Stress begins to set in well before the water temperature reaches the lethal limits (above 20°C). • Availability of clean, clear, cold and continuous flow of water is the most crucial deciding parameter for selection of a site for setting up of the rainbow trout farm. The fish can be cultured only in flow through ponds popularly called as raceways. Continuous flowing water ensures clear and highly oxygenated waters in the raceways which is essential for the fish. • Proper selection of site for trout farm is primary requirement as the site should receive water which must be free from silt. The water supply from the natural nallahs/ drains till the trout ponds or raceways can be channelized by constructing a cemented channel. • Besides the water quality, the water flow rate in the trout ponds or raceways is also important. A minimum water flow of about 2-3 litres per second (lps) is required. This also helps in maintaining the desired level of oxygen. • Availability and timely supply of quality rainbow trout fish seed is very important for success of a trout farm. At present most of the trout seed hatcheries are located in remote areas of the hilly states and it often becomes difficult for the farmers to get quality trout seeds on time. • Protein rich fish feed is the other essential input for the trout. Good quality, energy rich and nutritionally balanced feed is very essential especially when the size of the fishes are small. The fish attains table size in about 12-14 months (about 250-300 gm). It is well adapted to supplementary feed and culture in raceway ponds. In recent years, farmers have shown greater interest in commercial rainbow trout farming. Requirement of technological advances in the form of improved feed having higher food conversion ratio (FCR), farm design with greater efficiency, optimization of stocking density, brood stock maintenance and hatchery practices are necessary for the future development of trout farming in India. The fish although fetches a good farm gate price for the farmers (` 500-600 per kg), however, in future, with more farms coming up, Fig. 1. Rainbow trout Farm of Shri Rajeev Jaswal at Shanan, Himachal Pradesh Indian Farming November 2020 22 marketing network needs to be strengthened. Since farms are located in remote areas in the hills with poor transportation facilities, access to the market may be a challenge.