 The improved yield indirectly lowers the burden on environment through reduced yield scaled CO2 emissions (i.e., CO2 per kg grain produced), while addition of biochar as a stable carbon source to soil acts as a direct abatement to atmospheric CO2. The fixed atmospheric CO2 as biochar in stable heterocyclic aromatic forms remains in soil for millennia (Abbhishek et al., 2021). Our findings with this pilot scale study further indicates that the addition of biochar as a nutrient carrier to the prominent rice based cropping systems thus can have significant effect on net removal of CO2 from ecosystem. 4. Conclusion Atmospheric CO2 shows significant changes in different agricultural seasons in India. Zaid season shows the highest concentration, whereas the lowest concentration in the kharif season. Atmospheric CO2 concentrations over India are mainly controlled by vegetation, which acts as a strong sink for atmospheric CO2 through photosynthesis. The highest CO2 concentration is observed during the zaid season owing to the lack of vegetation and strong convection. In addition, the dry season combined with high daytime temperature during April–May create a tendency for the ecosystem to become a moderate source of carbon exchange. The lowest CO2 concentration observed in the kharif season is because of the heavy rainfall and high vegetation cover during these months. However, in the rabi season the CO2 concentration rises gradually as the soil moisture recedes slowly, and plants are also in slow growing stage. As a result, respiration takes over the weak photosynthesis, contributing to increasing levels of CO2 concentration in the atmosphere. Our agro-management analyses indicate that the management non-intensive period (January to June) is the least productive period in terms of NPP in India. As a result, higher CO2 concentration is observed during this period. The atmospheric CO2 showed an increasing trend of 2.42 ppm/year over India in 2009–2020. Anthropogenic activities such as biomass burning, coal, fossil fuels and energy consumption also contribute significantly to this increasing trend of CO2 emissions. Our trajectory analysis show that the long-range transport along with local sources are also responsible for the high CO2 in India. We also find that the edaphic CO2 emissions mediated by soil microbes can be significantly reduced by using stable carbon like biochar in place of resistant carbon (e.g., compost) in nutrient management practices of paddy. Our analyses can give a means to better comprehend the spatiotemporal changes in CO2 concentration over India originating from the agricultural activities such as biomass burning and agricultural management. Furthermore, our study highlights the important drivers of increasing trends in atmospheric CO2 over India, e.g., vegetation and human activities. This could also have an enlightening influence on policy interventions aimed to curb the increase of CO2 concentration over India.