 Stability of terraces and trenches Land shaping (trenching and terracing) was done in October-November 2002. Due to fragile nature of landscape and heavy snowfall during winters, the terracing was severely damaged, and had to be reconstructed after one and half years. Therefore trenches need to be frequently repaired in fragile and erosion-prone soils. In spite of the damage done to the terraces and trenches due to rainfall and snow, the moisture conservation due to these land-shaping treatments encouraged the growth of natural vegetation. After the rainy season, the terraces provided with trenches showed profuse growth of grasses and leguminous vines due to profile water conservation. It would help in soil conservation and add organic matter to the soil upon its decay. conservation through harvesting the runoff water and the water directly from the rains and snow. Terracing alone was also effective in conserving moisture by directing the flow of runoff towards plant basins. Terracing and trenching thus should be practised in rainfed orchards for harvesting and conserving rain water in situ. Mulching retained more soil moisture than no-mulch. Pine-needle mulch had an edge over other mulch materials. Pine needles are easily available locally. Pebbles also appear as a potential mulch material, as they are also locally available in plenty. The land shaping as well as mulching used for soil-moisture conservation significantly improved the growth parameters of apple trees, viz. plant height, canopy circumference and stem diameter. The making of tree basins significantly improved all the three growth parameters. However, composition of terracing and trenching further improved the plant growth whereas all the three parameters were highest under the treatment of basin+terrace+trenching. Likewise, growth of apple trees was better with mulch than without mulch and highest plant growth was observed with pine-needle mulch. Effect of mulching on water status of apple Trees The relative leaf water content (RLWC) increased significantly with the application of mulch. Highest RLWC was observed with pine-needle mulch, and the lowest in control. Water harvesting The RCC and polylined tanks were effective in storing rain water in-situ water from springs brought to the site through rubber pipes. No seepage was observed in RCC and polylined tanks even after 2 years of their construction. The bitumen-lined tank did not perform well at this site, because the soil at the experimental site was loose and gravelly. The chaal has to be lined with some effective sealant, like RCC or polyethylene (UV resistant material). Cost of construction was highest in RCC tank, followed by polylining and bitumen lining. Although the cost involved in the construction of mud-plastered and un-lined tanks was minimum, their utility would depend on the seepage losses and hence the effective water storage.