 It is suitable for late planting in Kharif in case of delayed rains. It can also be planted whenever the kharif planted crop fails due to failure of rains. Sesame has great potential as summer crop under limited irrigation in Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh. Good yields of soybean have been obtained from the crop grown in post-rainy season (Rabi/summer) in many states. Soybean is ideally suited for vegetarian dominated Indian society. It is also called poor man’s meat. It fits efficiently in cropping pattern replacing some efficient kharif crops. Also, energy rich crop such as groundnut, rapeseed and mustard, soybean, sunflower, castor, safflower, sesame, linseed and niger must find place in cropping systems. Diversification of oilseeds in upland rice/rice fallow situation Identifying newer areas and seasons for cultivation of oilseeds can help increase oilseeds production. Rice- fallows, especially in Eastern India, are the potential general areas for many oilseed crops like sunflower, rapeseed-mustard, groundnut and sesame. Oilseeds, being more salt tolerant than pulses and many cereals, have better chances of success in large tracts of saline areas. Likewise, under situations of limited water availability for the second crops of rice or in tail-end areas of canals, oilseed crops are better options. With less than a third of water needs of rice, a good crop of oilseed can be harvested. Wherever water resources are limiting such as tail end area of irrigation command, tank fed area and well irrigated areas, oilseed crops like groundnut, soybean, sunflower, sesame etc. can be profitably cultivated. In rice fallow situations of Cauvery deltaic areas of Tamil Nadu and Coastal Andhra Pradesh, sunflower and sesame can be profitably grown. In Tungabhadra Project areas of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh, it is profitable to grow groundnut, sunflower and sesame under rice fallow situations. Groundnut has great potential under residual moisture after the harvest of kharif rice in coastal region of Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh. There is a great potential of rabi/ summer groundnut in rice fallows and on residual moisture in flood plains in Assam, West Bengal, Odisha and Chhattisgarh. Mustard has an excellent potential in rice fallows in North Eastern states. As a summer crop in Eastern states, sesame is profitably grown after rice. In the Upland areas of Odisha, Tamil Nadu, Bihar and Andhra Pradesh, groundnut (Kharif), soybean and sunflower are more remunerative as compared to upland rice. Studies on agro-economic feasibility of oilseed crops in rice fallows demonstrated that the higher net returns and B:C ratio were accrued in the order of sesame > castor > groundnut > sunflower in southern Telangana. While in Northern Telangana zone, zero-till sunflower was successful. Rice-sunflower has emerged as a promising cropping system in Telangana (Nizamabad/Siddipet), West Bengal (South 24 Parganas) and Odisha.