 Presence of common predators such as dogs, cats, snakes, eagles, hawks and thieves 4. Lack of veterinary healthcare and extension services 5. Unavailability of small hatchery units to cater the need of chicks. Augmenting income through mango based poultry farming Farmers realized the net returns of R 1,71,828 per acre by integrating rural poultry in mango orchard which was higher in comparison to non integrated orchards (R12,223 per acre). The returns per rupee of expenditure of mango orchard-based poultry farming was significantly higher (1.96) as compared to mono-crop of mango production which registered lower returns per rupee of expenditure (1.21). For further interaction, please write to: Maneesh Mishra (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: maneesh.mishra@icar.gov.in Mango orchard based poultry July–August 2021 29 R A Ram* Strategies for organic production of mango Indiscriminate use of agro-chemicals in mango production has resulted in various environmental and health hazards along with socio-economic problems. The degenerative effects of agro-chemicals based farming practices have forced for alternative system of farming. However, high cost of chemical fertilizers, their toxic effect on fruit quality and health of soil has prompted to find out alternative source(s) of nutrients. In general, 4-6 sprays of pesticides are being done in mango production. Presence of residual toxicity of agro-chemicals is one of the major bottlenecks in capturing international markets. In mango crops, there is ample scope of organic farming and produce so obtained, is of superior quality and safe for health. Sometimes quality of externally sourced organic inputs is doubtful and they are also not cost effective. Therefore, emphasis for on-farm production of organic inputs is to be given to maintain the quality as well as cost effectiveness. Research Nutrient mangement In newly planted mango plants (1-5 years), 10-20 kg of well decomposed compost is applied 0.3 meter away from the trunk in trench during the month of September- October. About 3-4 inch thick mulching with orchard’s organic wastes is done in basin. In 10 or more than 10 years old tree 30-40 kg vermi/biodynamic compost is applied one meter away from the trunk in trench and trench should be covered with soil during the months from July-September. Basin should be mulched with on- farm available organic wastes and drenched with 20% jeevamrita twice in the year i.e. before rainy and after season. Tree trunk should be pasted up to the height of 1.5 meter from ground level with biodynamic tree paste twice in a year for the management of gummosis and stem borer. Foliar spraying of vermiwash (50%) is also helpful for better growth, flowering and fruiting. Insect pest management Mango hopper Incidence of mango hopper occur during flowering and fruiting.