 yy Floating tanks should be available for disabled animals and animal should be allowed to swim in floating tank for 6-8 hrs daily. yy Animals should be inspected by the veterinarian for early diagnosis and treatment of primary cause of the disability to minimize secondary trauma and suffering as early as possible. Pain management should be given due importance. yy The animal should be assessed at 2-4 hour interval for improvement. If there is no improvement the diagnosis should be reassessed. yy The milk animals should be milched out regularly to prevent the development of mastitis. yy The ample space should be provided for the disabled animals which are able to walk. 37 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Emergency situations such as floods, earthquakes, storms, cyclones, fires etc. can have a great impact on cattle in gaushalas owing to their size, and special shelter and transport requirements. Therefore, planning in advance for emergency situations is imperative. Emergency preparedness yy Determine the hazards and risks in area where gaushala is situated yy Maintain an inventory a) Maintain a list of all animals in gaushala b) All animals should have a permanent identification (e.g., ear tags, tattoos). yy Identify alternate water or power sources yy Prepare an evacuation kit a) Handling equipment (e.g., halters, nose leads) b) Water, feed and buckets c) Medications d) Tools and supplies needed for sanitation e) Cell phone, flashlights, portable radios and batteries f) Basic first aid kit g) Power generators yy Make evacuation arrangements a) Locate and prearrange evacuation sites b) Determine routes to these locations c) Train animals to being loaded and transported d) Plan how handling equipment and veterinary care will be obtained at the evacuation site. e) Arrange for feed and water delivery for the evacuation site. yy Establish escape routes to safe locations (e.g., higher elevation) a) Cows should be housed in loose system of housing and should not be tied. The loose cattle can escape to safety in the event of some emergency situation such as fire or sudden floods or earthquake etc. whereas tethered (tied) cows may be at greater risk. b) Do not set up gaushalas in unsafe locations (cow sheds in flood prone area or in poorly drained and low lying areas) CHAPTER 8 Emergency preparedness and emergency management / handling M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 37 38 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Establish a safe environment for animals a) Assess the stability and safety of cow sheds and other structures. b) Remove dead trees or other debris in fields or animal holding locations. c) Secure any loose equipment or materials, such as feed troughs.