 The G20 Member States, Invited Countries and several International Organizations participated in the MACS to discuss and identify the Research and Development (R&D) priorities in agriculture to foster transformation towards diverse, resilient and sustainable agriculture, and food systems. The conference recognized global food security concerns aggregated by climate change and the need for enhancing R&D collaborations between the public and private sector to build resilient agriculture and food systems, find solutions for climate change adaptation, and mitigation without adverse effects on food security, protect and enhance bio-diversity, and help improve productivity and profitability sustainably in global agri- food value chains. Effective investments in agricultural research and innovations will enhance the capacity to build resilience to climate change. Success of public and private sector collaboration in R&D depends on scaling up of innovations and information sharing. SUMMARY The climate resilient agriculture initiative in India is very encouraging and lead by example for many other developing countries. NICRA interventions were found to increase resilience at farm, household and village level, and has been successful in changing the lives of millions of farmers in our country. The climate resilient technologies developed and evaluated under NICRA are being upscaled by several state governments across the country. Taking NICRA villages as model, various state governments have initiated programmes like PoCRA in Maharashtra and climate smart agriculture in Bihar with an aim to make agriculture resilient to changing climate. Up-scaling the resilient practices by involving development departments, corporates, by developing entrepreneurship at the village so as to reach millions of the small holders. Though the major emphasis in agriculture sector in India is towards adaptation and co-benefits of adaptation, efforts are also made towards mitigation through several schemes being implemented on a large scale. Integrated approach at village level by implementing the package of climate resilient practices over years will pave the way towards climate resilient farming. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ddg.nrm@icar.gov.in Water Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.