 A summary of the major recommendations is given below: 1. The committee proposes to broadly group Agriculture and Allied Sciences in seven core areas with 56 ARS disciplines as against the existing 62 disciplines classified in five broad groups. 2. The other changes suggested by the committee are: (i) merger of four sub-disciplines of soil science into one discipline, (ii) introduction of a new discipline of Spices, Plantation Crops /Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, (iii) integration of Genetics and Plant Breeding into one subject, (iv) bifurcation of Agricultural Structures and Process Engineering into two separate disciplines of “Agricultural Structure & Environmental Management” and “Agricultural Process Engineering”, (v) renaming the discipline of Forestry as Agroforestry, (vi) retaining Environmental Science and Agricultural Meteorology as separate disciplines and (vii) phasing out/merger of discipline of Agricultural Physics. 3. Creation of three new disciplines in Fisheries Sector i.e. (i) Fish Nutrition (ii) Fish Health and (iii) Fish Genetics and Breeding in addition to the existing three disciplines. 4. Discipline of Agricultural Extension in itself be considered inclusive of Veterinary, Dairy, Fishery and Home Science extension disciplines. The same analogy applies to Agricultural Economics. Hence, further bifurcation into sectors of agriculture is not justified. 5. Twelve disciplines have been identified which have supporting service functions and hence are not required for basic or strategic research in the ICAR. Moreover, such positions are also isolated in only few institutions. Therefore, in order to ensure their service function, it is proposed to hire experts through outsourcing or through lateral entry at the level of Senior Scientist or Principal Scientist as per requirement of the concerned Institute. IV 6. Broad changes in the qualifications for each ARS discipline, commensurate with VI Pay Commission recommendations, have been suggested with a view to attract the best talent in the ARS. 7. Similarly, for direct selection to the post of Sr. Scientists in Pay Band 4 of ` 37,400 – 67,000 with RGP of ` 9000, apart from the minimum essential qualifications of doctoral degree in the respective discipline, a candidate should be considered eligible if he/she has rendered a minimum of 8 years service as scientist / lecturer / extension specialist or in an equivalent position in the Pay Band 3 of ` 15,600 – 39,100 with different RGPs. Similarly, for the selection of Principal Scientist, a minimum service of 11 years has been suggested. 8.