 Frontline Extension is a catalytic force for bringing desirable behavioural change, which involves a higher level of knowledge sharing and interaction by qualified resource persons of the research and educational system. The basic philosophy behind frontline extension system is that the scientists who have generated the technologies can demonstrate their technologies better to the farmers in their fields with concurrent and direct feedbacks to them for further refinement in the technology. 2. Role of agricultural extension in addressing agrarian challenges A number of social workers and philosophers with a philanthropic intent in the pre- independence period came forward for overall development of society through rural reconstruction and upliftment of under-privileged sections of the society. The attempts such as Sriniketan Project, Sevagram, Marthandam Project, Gurgaon project, Firka Development Programme are some important to cite. These were important movements but operated in isolation. The role of extension in addressing agrarian challenges has changed over the decades (Table 1). The major dynamic role of extension affecting agriculture and the rural society is given below. Table 1. Milestones in agricultural extension in India Year Milestone Impact 1952 Community Development Programme (CDP) All-round socio-economic transformation of the rural people - by increasing agricultural production; tackling unemployment, improving communications, primary education, public health and recreation, housing, promote indigenous handicrafts and small-scale industries and improve the villager’s lot through their own primary effort. Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 335 Year Milestone Impact 1964 National Demonstration Precursor to the Green Revolution. Demonstrated genetic potential of improved HYVs leading to large scale adoption. 1964-66 Education Commission Recommended that a vigorous effort be made to establish specialized institutions to provide vocational education in agriculture and allied fields, which led to establishment of Krishi Vigyan Kendra in 1974. 1966 High Yielding Variety Programme (HYVP) Attaining self-sufficiency in food suitably blended with HYVs and application of fertilizers, irrigation, plant protection, improved implements, etc. 1974 India’s first KVK at Pondicherry KVK -a successful grassroots level model of frontline extension impacting farmers and extension personnel’s behaviour and capacity to deliver the public goods. Training and Visit (T&V) System Dynamic link between farmers, professional extension workers, and researchers. T&V system in its extension network helped in effective technology transfer through scientific mean resulting into increase in food production. Operational Research Project (ORP) Disseminating the proven technology in a discipline/area among farmers on a watershed basis, covering the whole village or a cluster of villages.