 Incidence and economic role of infertility, forms of infertility, congenital and hereditary defects, infectious diseases. Pathological conditions of ovary, oviduct, uterus, cervix and vulva. Management causes of infertility. Hormonal causes of infertility, anestrus, repeat breeding, cystic ovarian degeneration, sexual health control and reproductive health programmes. Breeding soundness examination of cows and buffaloes. Unit 10 : Reproduction and Infertility in Ovine/Caprine Puberty, sexual maturity, breeding season, oestrous cycle, Breeding and conception, gestation, parturition, peri-parturient and obstetrical complications. Synchronization of oestrous cycle. Embryo transfer. Causes of infertility and their management. Unit 11 : Reproduction and Infertility in Swine Oestrous cycle, synchronization of oestrous cycle, Hormonal control of reproduction. Various forms of infertility in swine and their management. Various obstetrical problems and their management. Unit 12 : Equine Reproduction Physiology and pathology of equine reproduction. Research techniques and methodology for the study of equine reproduction. Equine andrology. Reproductive behaviour and management of stallion. Semen collection, examination and artificial insemination. Pregnant mare behaviour . Application of modern reproductive techniques in equine reproduction. Equine infertility. Unit 13 : Canine and Feline Reproduction Functional anatomy of dog and cat reproductive system, oestrous cycle and endocrinology of oestrous cycle and detection of optimum breeding time. Exfoliative vaginal cytology. Methods of pregnancy diagnosis, contraception. Medical termination of pregnancy. Infertility in bitches, disorders of oestrous cycle, pseudopregnancy, pyometra, cystic endometrial hyperplasia, tumors of reproductive tract. Difficult whelping – types and methods of handling dystocia. Caesarean section. Ovarian hysterectomy. Peri-parturient complications. Semen collection, evaluation, techniques of artificial insemination, infertility in male including testicular tumors – cryptorchid, affections of prostate. 7.4 VETERINARY SURGERY Unit 1: General Surgery Current concepts of inflammation and its management. Asepsis and antisepsis in surgery. 74 Disinfection and sterilization. Surgical bacteriology. Pre-, Peri and post-operative considerations. Physiopathology of burns, trauma, surgical stress and shock. Haemorrhage, haemostasis and administration of whole blood, blood extracts and plasma substitute. Acid – base and electrolytes imbalance. Rehydration and fluid therapy. Tissue repair including its biochemical aspects. Principles of tissue and organ transplantation. Tissue transplantation immunity. Sutures and suture materials. Operation theatre management. General surgical affections viz.. abscess, cyst, haematoma, tumour, gangrene, sinus, fistula and hernia. Neurological examination, paralysis and its treatment. Surgical instrumentations. Care of critically ill patients. Cosmetic surgery.