 In the sacred text of Rigveda, material used to feed domestic animals are mentioned which includes barley, sugarcane, and deoiled sesame cake. The science of animal Ayurveda was also documented during the Vedic period. The information about curing the cow through medicinal herbs and dietary supplements is believed to be written in some of the Vedic hymns. Atharvaveda mentions the treatment of various cow ailments through the use of animal Ayurveda. Vedic people also used surgical methods such as grafting, removal of foreign bodies, treatment of dislocations, fractures and fistula for managing the animal diseases (NAVS 2015). The Aryan people in later period of Vedic age, also known as Iron Age witnessed the composition of two great epics of Hindus - Ramayana and Mahabharata which also mention the management of animal diseases using medicine, oils, herbs, and also cure through surgical corrections performed by trained Vaidhyas. It was during this period, the use of cow dung as manure in the agricultural fields was noticed. It’s the Gopala or Krishna (900–1000 BC) era where we found the information about ‘Gau- palan’ and ‘Gau Sanrakshan’. Govinda was another name given to Krishna (meaning the protector of cows). It was during this period when milk and its products especially milk- butter assumed importance and tax was paid to the king in terms of butter. Gopashtami was started by Krishna where worship of cows was done on a specific day after Deepawali. Panchagavya which includes five things, namely cow milk, curd and ghee prepared from cow milk, cow dung and cow urine, gained importance during this period and was practiced in religious rituals. The religious texts, namely, ‘Shrimad Bhagwat’, poetry and paintings of the era depicted the role and importance of cow husbandry in the society. Animal Husbandry in Pre-Independent India 45 2.3. Mauryan era Care and management of domestic animals is documented for the Mauryan period (322-232 BC). An important text written by Kautilya during the Mauryan period was Arthashastra, which discuss in detail the role and duties of a king in providing care and protection to cows. Arthashastra also recognizes the role of various domestic livestock, and it was during this period that buffalo was also recognized for dairying and difference in milk-fat with cow was documented, indicating that buffalo milk has a higher fat content. Texts of ‘Arthashastra’ suggested the creation of separate department in the state for accounting the livestock and land maintained for pastures, by village-based accountants called ‘Gopas’. Mauryan period is also known for the introduction of state funded veterinary services (NAVS 2015). The text describes optimum herd size, male to female ratio of cattle, feeds and fodder. It also mentioned the earnings and trade through different livestock products, skin and hide, fur and wool.