 Independent India started with indigenous manual or animal-driven agricultural tools followed by their improved precision versions. The farm mechanization got a real boost as a response to intensive cropping strategy during the Green Revolution resulting in a mass scale import and adoption of mechanically powered tools, equipment and machinery. As the technological advancements took place in cropping and resource management, the tractors and mechanically powered equipment made inroads in the agriculture. Research focus also reoriented from animal traction to mechanically powered equipment. The exponential growth in tractor sector during past three decades resulted in more than 7.5 million tractors Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 283 in the fields today and farm power availability increasing from 0.3 kW ha-1 during 1960 to 2.54 kW ha-1 in 2020. Along with tractors, significant growth in power tillers, combine harvesters, diesel engines and electric motors has also been noticed vis-à-vis positive crop productivity. India has emerged as the largest tractor producer in the world with about 0.8 million annual sales of tractors. The farm mechanization dominated by tractor powered improved implements and machinery has improved timeliness and precision in field operations, saved labor, inputs and operation cost besides 20% higher yield. The threshing of major crops is now completely mechanized and overall mechanization of primary processing of food grains is 68.2%. India now produces a huge range of agricultural implements designed in the country with large pool of manufacturing industry. ICAR designed and developed machines, equipment and tools are also mass produced by the industries in the country. These developments during last couple of decades contributed to achieve 47% overall farm mechanization of crop production in the country. The needs of precision agriculture using artificial intelligence technologies is the emerging area for automated farm mechanization and post- harvest operations. This will bring precision while addressing the problem of scarcity of human labor. Formal research in the field of post-harvest processing in India was initiated in third quarter of previous century with primary focus on minimizing post-harvest crop losses and later transformed into development of agro-processing technologies and value-added food products. Creation of new Ministry of Food Processing Industries in 1988 provided impetus to developments in this sector. ICAR has significantly contributed in development of mechanized processing and value addition of cotton, jute and other fiber crops that facilitated significant amount of exports. The utilization of crop residues and by-products for animal feed, production of organic manures and energy generation has taken a center stage during past decade.