 This revised edition in two volumes covers fundamentals of the subject and at the same time will inspire and prepare teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. Indian Farming 41 July 2023 Sh Paramjit Singh: A torch bearer of entrepreneurship in agricultural custom hiring Manpreet Jaidka, Amandeep Singh Brar and Ramanjit Kaur* ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Farmers having less than 2 hectares (5.0 acres) of farm land are referred as small and marginal farmers. They comprise about 86.2% of the country’s total farmers. In the era of intensive and mechanized crop production systems, timely and cost effective availability of agricultural implements to the small and marginal farmers plays a pivotal role in their decision making process. Due to small land holding and high market price of implements, small and marginal farmers cannot purchase all the machinery. So, establishment of custom hiring centers/machinery banks in the villages is need of the hour. Custom Hiring Centre (CHC) are basically a unit comprising a set of farm machinery, implements and equipment meant for custom hiring by farmers. The main objective of Custom Hiring Centre is to supply farm implements to small, marginal and poor farmers at subsidized rates on hire. Keywords: Agriculture, Custom hiring, Entrepreneurship A verage operational land holding size in the country is estimated at 1.16 hectares (ha). About 80% of the land holdings are operated by small and marginal farmers owning <1 and 1–2 ha holdings, respectively. These farmers cannot invest in costly farm machinery and depend on hiring of implements to carryout day to day agricultural operations in their fields. In rainfed areas, the window for taking up of timely land preparation, sowing and inter-culture operations is narrow especially in the low rainfall zones. Failing to exploit this limited window often leads to a compromise on productivity and efficiency in crop production since moisture availability is the main limitation in these areas. In high rainfall areas dominated by heavy soils, drainage is more crucial to prevent damage to crop from excess soil moisture in the root zone especially in pulses, oilseeds and cotton. Labour shortage at peak times of demand is a serious problem faced by farmers. Adoption of climate resilient practices such as soil incorporation of legume Indian Farming 73 (07): 41-43; July 2023 catch crops and crop residues to improve soil health and resource conservation technologies are linked to timely access to appropriate farm machinery at reasonable cost. Several options are now available to increase the efficiency and timeliness of agricultural operations even on small farms by using farm machinery on hire basis. Farm mechanization is the process of developing machines and substituting this machine power for human and animal power in agriculture and allied production practices.