 This is an online monitoring system for the Student READY programme launched with the technical support from the ICAR-IASRI, and hosted on Agricultural Education Portal (https://education.icar.gov.in/). The online programme was developed to record all the activities and achievements of the various components of the Student READY programme, viz. Experiential Learning- Business Mode, Experiential Learning-Hands on Training (Skill Development), Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE), In Plant Training/ Industrial attachment/Internship and students projects. All the agricultural universities shall be submitting the relevant data in the portal. New Education Policy (NEP-2020) implementation strategy for ICAR led Agricultural Education System NEP, launched by MoE-GoI proposed several changes in the education system of India, including higher agricultural education system. These changes include – transforming the institutional structure as new form of multi-disciplinary Higher Education Institutions (HEIs), course curricula, academic structure of degrees/diplomas/ certificate system, introduction of credit banking system, partnerships among universities, industry and other stakeholders. A national level Committee was constituted by the ICAR to develop an implementation strategy to comply with various provisions of National Education Policy-2020 (NEP-2020). Based on the principles and philosophy of NEP-2020, a roadmap was prepared to comply with various provisions of NEP-2020. Human Resource Development Teaching, Research and Capacity building Niche Area of Excellence: The NAE programmes are being supported in the important focussed areas, viz. assessment of heavy metals in crop plants, enhancement of shelf life of pearl millet flour, development of nanomaterial for tissue regeneration in animals, disease management in plants and in bio-pesticides, etc. for building excellence in specific strategic areas in agricultural education and research, and capacity building. Significant achievements • Lactic acid bacteria from human milk and goat milk origin indicated a high frequency of resistance to aminoglycosides, betalectum, glycoproteins, cephalosporin, quinolones, macrolides, etc. • The protocols for isolation/culture/ characterization of stem cells from different species of animals were standardized and successfully applied for bone healing in animals. • Organic poultry production complex with an area of about 0.50 ha was developed following NPOP standards for organic poultry farming. The area has indoor and open space to maintain about 1,000 birds under strict organic management system as per norms. The supplementation of 5% Azolla leaf powder and 5% Moringa leaf powder in the diet was beneficial for growth and egg production, under organic poultry system.