 Salty clay is mined from Raital and Mokalsar near Jodhpur, Rajasthan. The women folk (irrespective of the location of potter across India) powder and sieve the clay using a household sieve (3 mm  3 mm). Traditionally potter interprets the salinity of clay by tasting. If the desired salinity is missing rock salt equivalent to 0.02% by volume of soil is added to it. Addition of salt is considered to make the clay ceramics more load bearing, and functionally better in cooling characteristics. Local artisans believe that addition of salt in clay inﬂuence the sintering rates of clay ceramics. Sieving of sawdust is performed with the same sieve used for the powdered clay. This is analogous to the Potter for Peace method of preparing the clay-sawdust mixture for manufacturing of the frustum shaped ceramic water ﬁlter (Gupta et al., 2018). Composite for Rural Construction and Fertilizers Composite Preparation Analysis It is important to retrodict the technical reason behind sustainable use of equal volumes of soil and horse dung for constructing aesthetic shelves. Therefore clayey soil (C) and horse dung (H) in volume fractions of 30:70, 40:60, 50:50 and 60:40 respectively were mixed, shaped and analyzed. The analysis elaborates study of curing, ﬂexural strength and fracture toughness property of C-H composites. Equal volumes of the horse dung (H) & pond soil (C) were manually powdered and sieved (Satankar et al., 2017). Local pond soil was soaked in sufﬁcient quantity of water for 24 hours and then next day stabilized with powdered horse dung (Satankar et al., 2017). The resulting dough was then formed into a rectangular shape (of size 250 mm  50 mm  20 mm). The resulting shapes were exposed to open environment (temperature of 351C, humidity of 42%) for about 28 days. The change in weather parameters, composite weight and its dimension were noted during this 28 day curing period (Satankar et al., 2017). The raw material volume, the immediate environment, and time play an important role in deﬁning the weight of the cured sample (Satankar et al., 2018). The scanning electron image analysis of horse dung shown in Fig. 5 indicates calcium richness. The white ﬂakes adhering onto the base are nanoparticles of calcium carbonate (Satankar et al., 2017). Nanoparticles of CaCO3 adhered to cellulose content provides horse dung composites with characteristics of a bio cement (Satankar et al., 2017). An increase in horse dung would prevent C-H composite failures due to bending. The presence of calcium carbonate will also inﬂuence surface ﬁnish Fig. 5 Scanning electron imagery of soil-horse dung C-H composites. Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use 939 and thus surface energy of C-H composite (Satankar et al., 2017). The low surface energy help in production of structurally strong manure cakes which disintegrate slowly in soil.