 Unit 1: Veterinary Helminthology Introduction to veterinary helminthology, general account of morphology, classification, life-cycle patterns, epizootiology, pathogenesis, symptoms, diagnosis; treatment and control of parasites belonging to the various families. Unit 2: Veterinary Entomology Introduction to veterinary entomology, classification, distributions, morphology, life-cycle, seasonal patterns and economic significance of insects and acarines belonging to the various families. Treatment, control and integrated arthropod pest management. Current advances in immunological interventions/ Control of arthropods. Unit 3: Veterinary Protozoology Introduction to veterinary protozoology, classification, morphology, life-cycle, clinical symptoms, pathogenesis, diagnosis, chemotherapy, prophylaxis and control of parasites belonging to the various families. Unit 4: Clinical Parasitology Clinical and parasitological signs of parasitic infections in domestic animals, Parasitic diseases of skin, eyes, alimentary, respiratory, urinary, genital, nervous, cardio-vascular and haematopoietic systems. Keys to identification and different diagnosis of helminthic eggs, nematode larvae, gravid proglottids of major tape worms, blood protozoans and apicomplexan group of parasites. Unit 5: Parasitic Zoonoses Introduction and importance of parasitic zoonoses, classification of parasitic zoonoses, geo- veterinary and epidemiological aspects including factors influencing prevalence, distribution and transmission of diseases. Role of reservoir hosts, natural habitat, wildlife and their public health significance, clinical features, pathology, diagnosis, treatment, control and prophylaxis of zoonotic parasitic infections. Unit 6: Management of Livestock Parasitism Factors affecting epidemiology, host environment, development and survival of infective stages, microhabitat, seasonal development (hypobiosis/diapause), dietary and host factors altering susceptibility, concurrent infections. Influence of genetic factors, general approaches to control of parasitic diseases – stock management practises, stock rates, rotational grazing, clean grazing. Parasite worm burden (EPG). Strategic and tactical control strategies involved in chemical control of helminth, protozoan and arthropod infestations. Broad and narrow-spectrum anthelmintics, antiprotozoal drugs, insecticides and acaricides. Newer drug delivery systems-slow and pulse release methods. Anthelmintic failure – drug resistance monitoring and management. Prospects of alternative methods of control, breeding for host resistance against parasites. Control of vectors and intermediate hosts and sustainable management. Estimation of economical losses due to parasitic diseases.