 They make a hole in the bottom of a tin of kerosene and hang it on the top of a water channel in such a fashion that the tin drops kerosene slowly at regular speed and uniform suspension goes to plot regularly. They believe that this is more effective than spraying because it kills all the larvae hidden in the soil cracks. Farmers realize that this practice also kills some of the beneficial organisms living in the soil. The practice is in use for more than 50 years and a large number of farmers are still using it (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Rana (1992) 76 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 155 Control of white fly in cotton by tobacco Some farmers add tobacco powder/dust @ 30 g per 15 litres with insecticide solution mainly with the idea of controlling the attack of white fly (Gujarat). Mane (1991) 156 Use of okra (Ablemoschus esculentus) as as acrifice crop for pest control in cotton Farmers grow 2–3 lines of okra plant surrounding the cotton field. Cotton is more susceptible to insect pests like spotted boll worms (Earias vitella), Spodoptera litura, Heliothis armigera, pink ball worm (Platyedra gossypiella), jassid (Amarasca biguttula) etc. Farmers believe that pests prefer okra plant as compared to cotton plant and attack them first. Pest is controlled by simply eradicating/destroying the okra plants attacked by insect and pests (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Patel (1991g) 157 Control of cotton boll worms and pod borer of chickpea and pigeonpea by neem seed extract Neem seed extract solution (5%) is prepared and sprayed to control cotton boll-worm and pod borer of pigeonpea and chickpea (Yavatmal, Maharashtra). Bhople and Lakbdibe (1998) 158 White fly control in cotton by seed extract of Nerium Arali (Nerium oleander) seeds are pulverized, soaked in water overnight and filtered. This filtrate is diluted in water and sprayed on cotton fields. This practice provides 70% control (Thiruvadagam). Murigesan (1994) 159 Control of white fly in cotton by jaggery solution Some farmers use gur (jaggery) solution to control white fly. One kg gur is dissolved in 10-12 litres of water and filtered through a thick cotton cloth. Approximately 5-6 litres solution is sprinkled in one acre with the help of sprayer pump gently on the foliage. The tiny insects of white fly stuck on the leaf surface due to stickiness of the solution. All the stuck eggs of white fly are killed on the leaf surface which increases the possibility of occurrence of Madhiya disease. Hence they prefer to use this practice once only. This practice can achieve 40–50 percent control of white fly. This technique is used in the months of November-December (Bharuch, Gujarat). Ahmedabadi (1992) 160 Insect control in cotton by tobacco and neem extract Farmers in this region use boiled suspension of tobacco (leaf or seed) and neem seeds and leaves to control insects in cotton (Mehsana, Gujarat).