 It belongs to family Annonaceae and is native of the West Indies. In India, it is naturally grown in forests, wastelands, rocky slopes, and other uncultivated lands. Its cultivation is spread over arid to semi-arid areas of Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Odisha, Rajasthan, and Tamil Nadu as a shrub or hedge plant. It grows throughout the plains of India at elevations not exceeding 4,000 ft. It mostly prefers a tropical climate, but can be grown successfully in hot to mild winter condition. The fruit plant tolerates wide soil and climate conditions, from saline soils to droughts. Farmers usually cultivate custard apple on hill tracts or barren lands. It is a deciduous or semi-deciduous tall woody shrub of about 5-6 meters height having irregularly spreading branches. The fruits are rich in carbohydrate mainly in the form of sugars (23.5%), protein (1.6%), calcium (17 mg/100 g), phosphorus (47 mg/100 g) and iron (1.5 mg/100 g). The tree sheds its leaves during April to June at arid, semi-arid and dry land condition of western India. Salient features of Thar Amrit Flowering: Thar Amrit were earmarked and collected from the existing diversity rich population of custard apple in area of Panchmahal district, Gujarat in 2009-10; which were evaluated under rainfed semi-arid field condition for their growth, yield and qualitative characters. Grafted and budded plant started flowering in 2nd year. It takes 4-5 years to develop full canopy and economic yield. The flowers appeared on old and current season’s growth (new emerging young shoots). Flowering occurs in July to August in semi-arid region of Western India. Flowers may be terminal or axillary and borne solitary, paired or in multi-flowered fascicles either on new branches, older branches or on the main trunk. The flowers are hermaphrodite and dichogamous in nature. The anthesis takes place in morning 5:30 am to 8:30 am and anther dehiscence at 12 pm to 2 pm of next day of the anthesis and stigma receptivity starts a day prior to anthesis and Research Thar Amrit: A new high-yielding custard apple variety for dryland Thar Amrit variety of Custard apple is precocious, regular bearer, and starts bearing in 2nd year. It has fruit weight of 320.12 g, having high pulp content (63.58%), and can be used for both table and processed purpose owing to high fruit pulp TSS (29.12°Brix). It is drought hardy and capable to give stable economic yield during aberrant agro-climatic conditions (350 mm). Fruits emit strong aroma at full ripening stage. It belongs to late maturing group (2nd week of November) with high yield (24.80 kg/plant in 11th year) under rainfed semi-arid conditions of western India. The fruit is rich in ascorbic acid (45-50 mg), iron (1.70 mg), phosphorous (26.0 mg), potassium (285.55 mg) and calcium (18.21 mg) content. It is a heavy yielder, and fruit bearing occurs on lateral and terminal branches in this variety.