 The state seed farms also can be gainfully utilized in a public-private partnership mode for seed production. Š Š Animal Health Clinics: New / strengthening AI Centers proposed @ one AI Center 247 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 for every 1000 adult female cattle population. Community pasture / Gauchar land / Silvipasture / Grass land @ one per 50000 Adult Cattle Units have been proposed. Š Š Agricultural Prices: The terms of trade in agriculture are adverse. This calls for extra support in price and / or integrated farming through better implementation of Minimum Support Price to the farmers. Š Š Electricity for Agricultural Purposes: The share of consumption of electricity for agricultural purposes was estimated at a very low 0.62% against all India overage of 20.95% with increasing requirements for energizing pump-sets, operating gender friendly farm equipments, heat and light requirements for birds and animals etc. it is recommended that the State Government may take steps to reach electricity supply to all farm families within a stipulated time frame. SUCCESS STORIES 1. System of Rice Intensification (SRI) System of rice intensification is based on six principle (i) use of 10-12 days seedlings (ii) seedlings raised on MAT nursery (iii) transplanted single seedling (iv) use of organic manures 10t/ha (v) 4 times weeding through use of cono-weeder at 10 days interval from date of transplanting (vi) alternate wetting and drying. In SRI single seedling is transplanted at 25 X 25 cm spacing. Of the recommended dose of fertilizer (100:50:25 kg N: P2O5: K2O/ha) ½ dose of nitrogen + full dose of phosphorus and ¾ th of potash is applied at sowing and remaining ½ dose of nitrogen and 1/4th of potash is applied at panicle initiation stage. System of rice intensification is more advantageous as it gave 10.15% higher grain yield (5032 kg/ha) than conventional method of rice cultivation (4568 kg/ha). Dhaincha in between the rice rows System of rice intensification 248 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 System of rice intensification is more advantageous as it gave 10.15% higher grain yield (5032 kg/ha) than conventional method of rice cultivation (4568 kg/ha) (BC ratio 2.04 as compared to 1.37 in conventional method).System is suitable for medium land situation of Jharkhand. Lesser input requirement (seed, labour & water), Use of cono-weeder and markers generates employment for rural youth. The technology has been adopted on large scale by farmers of Jharkhand through Jharkhand Government schemes. 2. Conservation agriculture in maize-wheat cropping system Conservation agriculture through zero tillage, minimum tillage and permanent beds offsets the production cost and other constraints associated with land preparation.