 He himself throughout his lifetime stayed connected to meditation. During his deep meditative trance, he envisioned images of the Pashupatinath a temple of Lord Shiva on a hillock located in Nepal. His spiritual journey started unexpectedly. He was visiting Kanpur as a part of the job and due to certain unfortunate series of events, his work got delayed and he decided to visit Pashupatinath Temple in Nepal. During visit to this holy place, he met an old gentleman who told him that Shiv Baba was waiting for him in Himalyas. Here he encountered the same ascetic whom he had seen in his meditative visions. The Shiv Baba transferred all his spiritual energies into him. This marked the beginning of Swami’s spiritual journey. He met several sages and yogis, who became his Gurus. It was during this phase Swami ji received the hidden treasure of the meditation technique, the one for the human soul’s ‘liberation’ (Moksha). That meditation technique operates beyond religion, race, language and gender. The motto of Shree Shivkrupanand Swamiji’s life became spiritual empower- ment of all humankind and enlightening them to the path of liberation. A devoted practitioner of meditation, Shivkrupanand Swami has mastered yoga for 18 years by living in the Himalayas and has been H.H. Shree Shivkrupanand Swami is an enlightened yogi, Indian spiritual teacher, author and Goodwill Tourism Ambassador. He has spent many years of his life in Himalayas with many revered Gurus. Since 1994, he has been sharing this 800 year old holy wisdom of Himalayan Meditation with everyone in the world. 166 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series serving a mission bestowed upon him by his holy masters. He is the founder of the Samarpan Dhyanyog, a simple way of meditation, which requires complete dedication of a practitioner to their holy masters or Gurus. Samarpan Dhyanyog serves as the perfect means to build a positive aura around oneself. In this ongoing pandemic situation when the emotional and mental stress has been at its peak, meditation can be a very effective means to achieve peace of mind. It has been scientifically proven to release stress, boost energy, control anxiety, develop concentration and purify the soul and the body. Shivkrupanand Swami’s methodologies include basic meditation and yoga techniques requiring comparatively less efforts. Beginners and practitioners, children and grown-ups can practice Dhyanyog and simple yogasan poses. Doing just 30 minutes dhyana would help one to be calm, relieving stress. The energy or vibrations produced during dhyana can also be used in agriculture. Farmers can use the vibrations on seeds before sowing them and on water tank used for irrigation water. This would increase yield and the produce would be of good quality. Key takeaway To improve overall physical and mental health we must absorb ourselves in 30 minutes of dhyana every day. 167 Health and Good Living SAGA OF SCIENCE S.