 The crosses involving inbred which showed maintenance is being utilized to convert into CMS lines by backcrossing method. Two inbreds M-46 and inbred 5 (PPMI- 362 X IP 1249-2149-2- are highly promising and produce high yielding hybrids. ● Khejri, Prosopis cineraria (L.) Druce, is a highly drought tolerant tree adapted to desertic environment. The tree bears edible pods rich in protein (18%), carbohydrates (56%), phosphorus (0.4%), calcium (0.4%) and iron (0.2%) in immature pods used as vegetable. The ripe pods containing 9-14% crude protein and 6-16% sugar are powdered and used to prepare bakery items such as biscuits and cookies. The quality of immature pods collected from the seed propagated trees differ greatly with respect to taste (flat, bitter, acrid, sweet), tenderness (tender, semi-hard, hard), fibre content (fibrous, fibreless), length (6 to 39 cm), thickness (0.20 to 0.27 cm) and seed number (2 to 30 per pod), seed size (20-50 mg) and contents of protein and minerals. During May-September under a study conducted by Prof. O P Pareek at CAZRI, out of four rootstocks, viz. P. cineraria P. juliflora, P. alba and P. nigra used for budding scion buds of P. cineraria, the best was P. cineraria. The technique has been successfully used for in situ budding on rootstocks of over 2 years. On an average, 76% success has been achieved. The method can be used to convert the old seedling trees into trees yielding good quality pods and a farmer can earn at least Rs. 2000 per year from an yield of about one quintal green pods per tree. ● Prof. N M Ramaswamy conducted the biotechnological experiments at TNAU for neem improvement with various media combinations and reported that the callus induction frequency in cotyledons of Azadirachta indica was high (60%) on MS+2,4-D (2.0mg/l) + Kn (0.5 mg/l) and it was low (1%) in Melia azedarach. The young leaf explants of Azadirachta excelsa recorded 12% callus induction in the above media combination. The response of anthers of Azadirachta indica was poor (0.5%) for callus induction on MS+NAA (2.0 mg/l)+BAP (1.0 mg/l). Irradiation of fruits of Melia azedarach with gamma rays (50 krad) indicated the stimulatory effect on the germination and the growth of M1 seedlings. HOME SCIENCE Database on Rural Women and Indigenous Knowledge ● ●● ●● Participation profile of rural women showed intensive participation seeds selection, weeding, transplanting, post-harvest and livestock management activities along with anchoring participation in all homestead activities. ● The time use pattern confirmed that women spent 16-18 hours per day for daily chores. ● A large wealth of indigenous knowledge on practices, methods and tools related to various aspects of maternal health and care has been identified, validated and documented. ● Technology kits containing communication media-mixes have been developed for empowering technology trainers and grassroot level field functionaries.