 I explore the effects of improved road connectivity on households’ demand for credit from five sources – banks, shopkeepers, moneylenders, and friends and family networks inside and outside the village – in Appendix Table B18. While imprecisely estimated, the point estimates are suggestive of an increase in demand for formal credit. It is worth noting that this result does not shed light on possible changes in the total volume of credit available to farmers.40 37 Price observations are at the household level, and wage observations are at the household-member level. I only observe prices and wages for households that buy material and labor inputs and sell farm output. Prices are imputed by taking the total value divided by the total quantity of the input purchased/output sold. I do not observe where the inputs are purchased, and where the output is sold. To maximize power, I use all observations in a pooled specification with village fixed effects. 38 I cannot rule out the possibility that input quality may also be changing. Given data limitations, I am unable to directly test for changes in input quality. 39 Casaburi et al. (2013) provide a good summary of the various models of market structure that have different predictions for price effects in response to infrastructure investments. 40 Road construction itself could have relaxed liquidity constraints faced by households if they were hired by contractors to work in construction of Access to information. Another possibility is that improvements in road infrastructure enhance information flows. Prior work has shown that information and communication technologies (ICTs) such as mo- bile phones have played an important role in the dissemination of price information and in linking buyers and sellers in rural settings (Jensen, 2007; Aker, 2010). I test for differences in mobile phone ownership by treatment status in Table 9; I find no significant effect (column 3). This suggests that while the rollout of program roads coincided with rapid growth of ICTs,41 this growth did not vary differentially by treatment status under the program. Further, given that the agricultural technologies I consider have existed in this setting for many years – the introduction of high-yielding seeds dates back several decades to the Green Revolution in the 1960s – it is unlikely that low take up is driven by the lack of knowledge of proper use or the expected returns associated with these technologies. Social learning. Finally, improvements in road infrastructure can facilitate social learning. Previous work has documented that learning from others is an important driver of technology adoption in agriculture (Foster and Rosenzweig, 1995; Conley and Udry, 2010). I test for heterogeneity in treatment effects across villages with different levels of non-cereal cultivation at baseline.