 Gupta (1993) 39 Foot and mouth disease Collect spines of dead headgehog (Hemeichinus auritus), a small insectivorous animal having a spiny body cover.Expose animals suffering from FMD to the smoke of these spines. (Bhavnagar, Gujarat) Khatana (1997d) 190 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 40 Control of FMD by using outer cover of the hooves of horses Farmers fumigate the outer cover of the horses' hoof and keep it near the mouth of the animal Gandhinagar, Gujarat). Thakor (1993) 41 Control of FMD Farmers of Bharuch district of South Gujarat have devised a unique method to fight this disease: They pierce hole in the bottom of an empty water pot (mud pot) and it is filled with bark of the sesam (Dalbergia sissoo) tree. A small pit is then dug on the farm where the mud pot can fit in. A small hole (just big enough for a mug to fit in) is made at the center of this pit.The water pot is then filled with water and placed in the pit in such a way that half of it remains outside the pit. Before this, a mug is placed in the hole at the centre of the pit. Then dried cowdung cakes are arranged around the pot and burnt. This results in formation of a black fluid which drains out into the mug from the hole at the bottom of the pot. This fluid is used to wash the wounds of the animal and helps to heal them in six to seven days (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (1997b) 42 Control of FMD Firstly, the hooves of animal is washed with warm salt solution. The ash which is prepared by burning old leather (shoes) is sieved through cotton cloth, mixed with approximately equal amount of groundnut or sesame oil and is applied on the affected hooves everyday till it heals (Sanjnasara). Boliya (1992) 43 Control of FMD Farmers pick up the new growing branches or primordial of karanj (Pongamia pinnata) to cure FMD disease. It is a common perennial tree which prefers medium black to sandy loam soil. Approximately, 50 ml juice is extracted from the collected primordial leaves and spread over the infected hooves of the animal. This practice is followed twice in a day for 4-5 days. People advise not to use the older primordial because there are chances of increase in the severity of disease by using them (Kanjari). Makwana (1992) 191 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 44 Fruits of kosam for treatment of foot and mouth disease Fruit of kosam (Schleichera oleos) a tree during rainy season from the forest. Kosam is a local tree found in abundance in natural forests of this area. It bears fruit in Monsoon season. However, it has a problem of alternative bearing. Leaves are greenish and broad, and are used in making the roof of the hut. Collected fruit are heated in the open fire till bubbles of oil come out of it. Only a little quantity of oil can be collected from each fruit. Oil of kosam is used to cure the FMD in animals.