 NASF has also funded four projects on the theme of “Scientific Utilisation through Research Augmentation- Prime Products/Panchagavya from Indigenous Cows (SUTRA-PIC)”. During the reporting period NASF has approved 12 new projects on novel aspects of application of CRISPR/Cas9, Artificial Intelligence, Sensors, Robotic Vehicles, Solar Powered Mover in the field of agriculture, etc. In addition, NASF also focused on other aspects like Agripreneuship for sustainable agricultural development, AI enabled Weather and Marketing Information-Based System, Labour Migration in marine fisheries sector, vertical farming and development of smart food. NASF also invited the pre-proposals for new research projects for Call X under seven strategic areas, viz. Biotechnology, Genomics and Allele Mining in plants, animals and fisheries; Abiotic and Biotic Stresses and Quality Traits in plants, animals and fisheries; Nanotechnology in agriculture; Metabolomics in agriculture; Precision agriculture and Management of natural resources and Application of Sensors in crops, animals and fisheries; Farm Mechanization and Energy; Social Sciences and Policy in agriculture. Total number of 737 pre-proposals have been received under these strategic areas. The pre-proposals are under the process of evaluation and the shortlisted pre-proposals will be invited for full project proposals. Salient Achievements During 2022-23, NASF led to more than 55 research publications in reputed journals, in addition to filing of two patents and development of eight technologies. The research highlights of some selected projects are as follows: Exploring aus rice for drought, submergence and phosphorus starvation tolerance, mining superior alleles and deciphering mechanism of tolerance: Under drought, submergence, and phosphorus starvation, phenotyping of 181 aus rice (of 3,000 Rice Genome Project) accessions was conducted. Population genetic analysis of the 181 aus germplasm revealed six subpopulations (K=1 to 6). The boro and aus seasonal ecotypes exhibited higher genetic similarity, while the group of Rayada cultivars from Bangladesh and aus accessions in central India, Sri Lanka, and other countries outside the Indian subcontinent were genetically distinct. A strong correlation between genetic and agro-morphological diversity was observed. Early maturing upland aus cultivars were clearly differentiated from boro and deep-water ecotypes. Genome-wide association studies (GWAS) conducted using phenotyping data for agro-morphological and stress tolerance traits identified numerous genes related to these traits. For yield and related traits, the GWAS analysis identified LOC_Os01g48960 (also known as OsNADH-GOGAT1 or GLT1), annotated as Glutamate synthase or NADH-dependent glutamate synthase 1. Three haplotypes of this gene were found within aus, with Hap-2 present in 72% of the accessions.