 Copyrights were also filed for software including design of farm pond (version-1.0), design of straight drop spillway-version 1.0, analysis of performance parameters of seed metering device, economic-financial viability, nomenclature of images of specific plant parts and plant varieties; and training manual on soil conservation and watershed management. A total of 104 filed copyrights have been thus recorded from 23 ICAR institutes. Trademarks: Twelve trademark applications were filed by the five ICAR institutes for products and processes including • Bird species of CARI, Izatnagar: Chitambari, Caribrovishal, Caridebendra, Carivirat, Carinirbheek, Carishyama, Upcari and Hitcari; • Expert system of IIPR, Kanpur (Pulsexpert): Diagnostic Expert System for Pulse Crops; • Institute logo of IISR; and • NRC on Banana, Trichy for their product Banana Shakti. A total of 82 trademark applications were filed by the 30 ICAR institutes; out of which 21 applications have been granted registration. Plant varieties: As the Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority notified new genera, applications for 135 varieties (107 extant; 27 new and 1 essentially derived variety) were filed at the Registry. For applications filed earlier, 56 varieties (51 extant and 5 new) were granted registration certificates during this period; raising the cumulative figure of registered varieties to 756. The cumulative total for plant variety protection applications rose to 1,186. Capacity building and outreach activities Programme organized: To create awareness and develop expertise in the domain area of intellectual property rights and technology management, organization of various capacity building programmes at institute/ zonal/national levels was emphasized. Accordingly, 39 ICAR institutes organized 129 Awareness Generation Programmes/ Interface/ Product- specific Meets/ Workshops/ Seminars, wherein 10,421 scientists/ researchers/ business professionals/ farmers/ social workers were benefited. Programme attended: To expose the scientific and technical staff to specific nuances of intellectual property and technology management issues 113 personnel from different ICAR institutes were deputed to attend 52 capacity building programmes organized by 36 different national/ international organizations. Technology Transfer/Commercialization The period also witnessed increasing engagement of the ICAR institutes with external agencies from public and private sectors, and including regional/social organizations for partnership in research and commercialization activities. The mode of partnerships largely had been through formal Memoranda of Understandings (MoUs), Licensing Agreements, Consultancies/Contract Research/Contract Service etc. Accordingly, this year 356 such partnership agreements were firmed up with 186 public and private organizations and 73 entrepreneurs by 43 ICAR institutes in different Subject Matter Divisions.