 2. For minimum benchmark setting for the colleges and performance evaluation, a regulatory body should ascertain the criterion. 3. One-time grant for infrastructure development may be directly earmarked to the respective colleges. 4. Movement of faculty from one institute to other is desirable to build excellence by providing incentives. 22 5. For students exchange between the colleges, funding may be provided by ICAR. 6. Give freedom to JRF holders to choose colleges for P.G. education, Fellowship may be given to the colleges for the P.G. admission as in ICAR System. 7. While drafting course curriculum at national level, a committee comprising of experts from various agro-climatic zones of the country may be included. HOME SCIENCE Facilitators : Dr Neelam Grewal, PAU, Ludhiana Rapporteur : Dr G.P. Sunandini, ANGRAU, Hyderabad Following were the recommendations: 1. Faculty training is required in ergonomics assessment and designing, product designing using CAD, furniture designing, space designing, social marketing, multimedia development, fashion merchandising and retailing, advanced development of instructional media, advanced consumer product testing and evaluation, green strategies for interior designing for housing, advanced instrumental faculty training, fashion illustration advanced dietetics and hospital, use of nano technology in foods and textiles, technical and smart textiles. 2. Long term strategies: Introduction of degree granting programmes like B.Sc. Nutrition and dietetics and B.Sc. Fashion Designing. Short term strategies identifying the experts in each discipline and the experts may be entrusted with the work of the designing the training programmes for interactive sessions through video conference. E-learning: in ANGRAU will be ready within one year and it would be introduced, in PAU from 1st September 2010. 3. Funding required for creating facilities like video conferencing, development of experiential learning units and their maintenance for three years, modernization of class rooms, laboratories, libraries and establishment of Home Science Techno Parks. 4. Areas for entrepreneurship development: Foods and Nutrition, processing and value addition, TAD &FRM Areas for patenting: Processes and Products in Foods and Nutrition, Textiles, FRM. 23 5. Students exchange programmes at national level. Strengths of various colleges identified for the purpose are: University Strengths PAU Community Nutrition, Therapeutic Nutrition, Knitting, Management of learning disabilities UAS Dharwad Food Processing and value addition, and Health Nutrition, Weaving ANGRAU Apparel production, draping, CAD, Designing and printing, Quality Control MAU HDFC, Counseling services 6. UAS Dharwad prepared revised course curricula for 3+1 level and it will be circulated among the universities for suggestions 7. To meet the challenge of shortage in faculties, emoluments for contractual services are to be increased and Ph.