 From the operation itself the company sales started picking up slowly and now the company have delivery over selected pockets of Hyderabad. In addition to fresh meat it is now selling Sea foods, RTE, RTC products also. Bloom Foods After working for more than 10 years in several software companies in Middle East countries, Mr. Sidharth Nallu, returned to India for setting up his own business. He launched Bloom Foods in 2016 with the hand holding support of ICAR-NRCM and ICAR-NAARM. Being from Hyderabad, Mr. Nallu has created an iconic position for Bloom Foods in Non-Veg Pickle Market. Bloom Foods is currently one of the leading Manufacturer and Marketer of M/s. Triusha Foods signed MoU with ICAR-NRC Meat for incubation support. Indian Farming January 2020 39 Chicken, Mutton, Prawns and Fish Pickles. The idea of Non-Veg pickles was inspired by seeing most of the pickle brands in the market which are pumped with chemicals, stabilizers and other preservatives to increase shelf life. Thus, he decided to make use of the opportunity and create a space in the pickle segment for non-chemical and less preservative non veg pickles. During the initial days, the shelf life of the products was a problem. Thus, he decided to work with ICAR NRCM for enhancing the shelf life of pickles and with the support of ICAR NAARM he has created a B2B and B2C platform to sell pickles online. At present bloom foods is selling around 1,000 kg Pickles monthly. In addition to this bloom foods are also marketing through all social media platforms. Mr. Nallu says that they get an average of 5-10 posts a day just on Facebook and Instagram of people tagging @bloomfoods in stories, pictures and videos of themselves posing with our pickles. Journey from an ordinary meat shop owner’s wife to owner of Meat Pickle Manufacturer. Smt. Sarika Gokarni at present is a successful food processing entrepreneur based in Boduppal, Hyderabad. Being married to meat shop owner and mother of two kids, she found that her husband’s income is good enough to run the family. But she had an unquenched thirst in food processing. With treasured recipes in hand, Sarika began pickling as a hobby and used to make pickles for her friends and relatives, which always got her great appreciations. One of her friends asked her to sell the pickles from which she can have a good income. But she was afraid because she did not know anything about business. She came to know about Agribusiness incubation Centre of ICAR-NRCM through newspaper and contacted the same. The NRCM -ABI Centre, gave her some idea about entrepreneurship and asked to attend the EDP training programme. Without any idea and with lot of confusion, she attended the programme conducted in February, 2018. At the end of completion of the programme, she was very clear about meat business and got much hope to face the problems. With that intent, she joined in NRCM ABI Centre for hand holding support and established her venture in Hyderabad.