 yy To control wilting in tomato and brinjal spray 1 g Streptocycline + 30 g of copper oxychloride in 10 litre of water in the root zone of the plants. yy Plant protection measures may be taken up when weather becomes clean and dry, avoid in rainy days. yy In view of threat of Corona virus, always keep at least one and half a metre distance between two workers, use masks and wash hand regularly with soap during farm operations Summer Paddy: yy The crop is at flowering to harvest stage in main field. Keep standing water up to 5cm during PI and flowering stage. yy Now-a-days Algal bloom is major problem after transplanting of rice. To control it, spray Copper oxychloride@3g/litre of water or apply 10kg CuSO4/ha in soil. yy Increased temperature may favour the egg laying of stem borer in rice in the main field. To attract the butterflies, place 4 Pheromon Traps/acre, collect the adults and destroy them by burning or by burying them under soil. yy Install pheromone traps to monitor adult population. If the dead heart incidence is above ETL (more than 5%), Soil application of Rynaxapyr 0.4G @4kg/acre or go for alternate spray of Fipronil @2ml/l with Indoxacarb@1.5ml/litre at 15 days interval. 100 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Those fields are at milking stage, there may be chances of infestation of gundhi bug and ear cutting caterpillar. To control Gundhi bug spray Ethofenoprox 10% EC @ 1 ml/litre of water or Lamda Cyhalothrin 5% EC @ 0.5 ml/litre of water. To control Ear cutting caterpillar spray Quinolphos 25% EC @ 2 ml/litre of water. Early transplanted rice is at maturity stage. Harvest rice crop when 80- 85% grains in the panicles are matured. Keep watch for rainfall before harvesting and ensure the harvested paddy is kept in a safe place. Kharif Paddy yy Land preparation for dry nursery may be done with the onset of pre- monsoon showers. For medium to shallow lowland transplanted rice, arrange good quality seed of varieties like Hasanta, CR 1009 sub-1, CR Dhan 307 (Maudamani), CR Dhan 303, CR Dhan 304, MTU 1001, MTU 1075, CR Dhan 310, DRR 44, Improved Lalat, CR Dhan 301 (Hue), CR Dhan 800, CR Dhan 404, Upahar, Swarna, Pooja, Swarna Sub 1 and BPT 5204 may be arranged from reliable source like Research institute, Universities, KVK, Block Office and other reputed farms. yy For costal saline region farmers are advised to arrange salt tolerant varieties like CR Dhan 405 (Luna Sankhi), CR Dhan 403 (Luna Suvarna)) and Lunishree from reliable source. Farmers those are interested to grow hybrids in irrigated medium and shallow lowland are advised to arrange good quality seeds of hybrids like Ajay, Rajlaxmi, CR Dhan 701, KRH-2 and PHB 71 from reputed seed companies or farms or agencies. Pulses yy In greengram if there is yellowing of leaves due to yellow mosaic virus then apply Thiomethoxam @ 6g in 15 litres of water for controlling it. Groundnut yy Tobacco caterpillars reported in some patches, to control it spray Indoxacarb+Nuvaluron @1.