 The ICAR has also developed many mobile apps. On the occasion of Amrit Mahotsav of Independence, the ICAR family and all affiliated institutions, scientific and agricultural universities should take a pledge together that within a stipulated period, they would be established at the international level and the country’s agriculture would be significantly highlighted in the world map. The ICAR is also working on agriculture education; sufficient work has been done on the inclusion of the new education policy in agriculture sector also. Initiatives have been taken to include agriculture in school curricula from the very beginning, so that children have a comprehensive idea and awareness about agriculture. There are 86 per cent small farmers in the country, who are not in a position to invest, it is important to improve their financial position. For this, ten thousand new Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) have been started with an expenditure of Rs 6,865 crore. Of these, about 3,000 FPOs have already been formed. Through these, small farmers would be united, which would increase the area of cultivation and then the farmers would be able to use latest technologies in togetherness. They would be a move towards modern farming and farming would be self-reliant. He also reiterated that the government has made a provision of the infrastructure fund of one lakh crore for private investment in agriculture sector. Along with this, a fund of more than 1.5 lakh crore rupees has been fixed for including other allied sectors; 14 thousand crore rupees under Agri Infra Fund projects have been sanctioned, out of which 10 thousand crore rupees have been approved. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana is for the common farmers and Micro Irrigation Fund has been increased from 5 thousand crore rupees to10 thousand crore rupees. Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi has been a boon for small farmers. So far, 2 lakh crore rupees have been deposited in the bank accounts of about 11 and a half crore farmers under this scheme. Key takeaway The technologies developed by the ICAR and Government Policies together have played an important role in making the Indian agriculture self-reliant. 5 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Sustainable Agriculture Sustainable Agriculture 6 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 7 Sustainable Agriculture RISHI KRISHI Pratap Chandra Sarangi In ancient times, our ‘rishis’ used to do ‘yagnas’ for air purification and adopted different means of water harvesting to irrigate fields. Father of nation Mahatma Gandhi in his book ‘Sarvodya’ wrote that life of farmers and labourers is the true life. Farmers are the ‘Annadata’ (producer of grain), they are to be happy for the growth of the country. Swami Vivekananda once said “So long as the millions live in hunger and ignorance, I hold every man a traitor who, having been educated at their expense, pays not the least heed to them”.