 Existing Provision "Merit promotion or grant of advance increment (s) to the successful technical personnel who complete five years ofservice between I July and 31 December ofa year shall be given with effect from l Julyofthe following year and those who complete 5 years of service between the I January and 30 June ofa year shall be given with the effect from I January of the following year". Amended Provision "Merit promotion or grant of advance increments to the successful technical personnel will be given with effect from the date following the date of completion of five years of service in a grade." This amendment will be effective from 1.1.1995. Yours faithfully, Sd/- ( K.K. Bajpai) DS(B) ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES No.17-1/97.Estt IV To Dated 18July 2000 The Directors, Project Directors of all JCAR Research In- stitutes/Project Directorates/National Research Centres/ Bureaux (As per standard list) Subject: Regarding Rationalization of the Qualifications for the Post of Driver under the Council - Regarding Sir, As you are aware, the matler relating to rationalization of the qualifi- cations for the post of Driver has been under consideration of the Council for the past quite sometime. Keeping in view the difficulties faced by the Institutes in filling up of such p,osts, and the discussions held on the matter in various meetings of the Central Joint Staff Council (CJSC) ohhe !CAR, the matter was carefully considered from all angles in consultation with the Agric ·ltural Scientists' Recruitment Board. A proposal was accordingly sub- mitted to the 183rd Meeting of the Governing Body of the !CAR held on 28 April 2000 for its consideration. The Goveroing Body has approved the fol- lowing modifications to rationalize the qualifications of the post of Driver under the technical service of the Council in the functional group 'Work- shop·. The revised qualifications of the post of Driver as approved by the competent authority are, therefore, hereby notified for your infonnation, guid- ance and necessary action. Revised Qualifications fa·senrial {i) Matriculation pass qualification from a recognized board; (ii) Possession of a valid and appropriate driving licence from prescribed Government Authority (the candidate will have to pass the practical skill test to be taken by an appropriate Committee of Jnstitute/Hqrs). Desirable {i) One year trade certificate in the relevant field from ITI; or {ii) Experience of driving in a recognized lnslitution; or {iii) Experience of motor mechanic work Note: Such Group •D'/ Supporting Slatrhome on the regular establishmeru of the lnstirnte/Hqrs cmK'Cffled who were deployed continuously and unintcrrupt• edly a:, drivers and completed not less than a period of one full year on such comim,ous deployment as on 29th June 1996 viz.