 Results and discussion Climate variability Temporal variability in rainfall and temperature The intra-annual variability and trends of climatic variables (rainfall and temperature) were analysed for the baseline reference period (1981–2019) over the GRB, as shown in Fig. 4. The slope of the trendline represents the increasing, decreasing, and non-significant nature of climate variability during that particular timeframe. A slightly decreasing trend (−0.6338 mm) was observed for annual rainfall, whereas a significant increasing trend (0.0191 ◦C) was observed for annual maximum temperature from 1981 to 2019. These results indicated increased warming over GRB. Rainfall in India is primarily driven by the monsoons (Krishnan et al., 2020; Kumar et al., 2013; Yaduvanshi et al., 2021). The amount of rainfall in the year depends mostly on the amount of rain received during the monsoonal months (June–September). Therefore, we analysed the monthly climatology and relevant contribution from seasonal monsoonal rainfall (Fig. 4) to esti­ mate the contribution and understand the potential changes under the impacts of climate change over the 21st century in the GRB. The con­ tributions were estimated using time-series data over the past four de­ cades, and the results showed that the monsoonal contribution in a year varied between 80 and 90% in the GRB area. A significant decrease in annual rainfall, which was 90% attributed to the contribution of monsoonal rainfall, was observed during the second half (2015–2019) of the present decade compared to the annual rainfall received during the past reference period (1981–2010). This might partially explain the recently experienced frequent intense pre­ cipitation and floods in addition to drought events in the GRB area, which have damaged the water resource infrastructures and caused water scarcity problems during non-monsoonal months, thereby increasing the difficulty in fulfilling local water demands. Therefore, the non-monsoonal months (~8 months) of a year were associated with negligible rainfall, and the management of external water sources are crucial to help meet the demands. The long-term impact of climate change was determined using the relative statistics of percentage change for the present, future optimistic, and future pessimistic scenarios compared to the past reference period. An average annual mean pre­ cipitation of 1032.50 mm was recorded for the past reference period, Table 3 Equations for the calculation of drought parameters for spatiotemporal drought analysis.