 The students were benefited through the programme in the following ways: • Operation and maintenance of the processing plants, knowledge on production of value-added products and insights into p o s t - h a r v e s t t e c h n i q u e s , including honey production. • Trainings were imparted for production and collection of Makhanas. • ELP on seed production helped students acquire experience on hybrid seed production in various crops, including guava layers, rice, sweet corn, soybean, etc. • ELP on protected cultivation of high value crops enabled the students to learn construction of polyhouses and growing vegetables with the knowledge about best package of practices. They also developed skills for growing vegetables under protected conditions and nursery management. Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE) The knowledge about crop protection methods was imparted along with the components of organic farming in certain villages. Experience on managing commercial horticultural farms was also gained in some villages. The students were given rigorous orientation and familiarization on various issues and problems anticipated on farmers’ field which helped to gain competence and confidence for solving problems related to agriculture and allied aspects. As per the requirement, students gained tremendous experience through industrial attachment and 11,970 students benefited under RAWE through Council’s support. Soil testing and awareness on soil health cards was also made as an integral part of RAWE by the students. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Teaching, research and capacity building Niche Area of Excellence: For strengthening capacity building and creating excellence in specific cutting edge areas, a support of ` 4.60 crore to 14 ongoing and one new centre of Niche Area of Excellence (NAE) on “Candidate gene assisted breeding of rice for the improvement of yield and tolerance against stress and nutrient deficiency using land races of Bengal” at BCKV, Mohanpur, was extended during the year. The XI Annual review meeting to review the programmes was organized at New Delhi on 22 August 2017. The NAE programmes are being supported in the areas of drought resistance, organic farming, reduction of spongy tissue in mango, production of seedless kinnow, management of ravines, insect taxonomy, development of biosensors for disease detection and toxins in milk, pet food improvement, quality assurance in fishes, zoonotic diseases, wildlife forensics and technology enhanced learning etc. Significant achievements • A conceptual mini-lysimeter phenomics platform for precise imposition of moisture stress was established at UAS, Bengaluru. • The PAU Kinnow-1 showed stability for seedlessness in 3 vegetative cycles and is differentiable from seeded Kinnow.