 The introduction of High Yield Variety (HYV) seeds, increased use of fertilizer, and improved irrigation during this time caused a noticeable increase in food grain production, signalling a move from stagnation to increased production. This led to a reduction in the import of food grains and food self-sufficiency. In 1980–81, food grain output increased to 126.7 Mn MT, with a productivity of 1.02 MT/Ha. → The 1980s-2000s It was the initial period of surplus production when India began to export food grains and attained food security. During this time, there were robust economic reforms and increase in domestic consumption due to high income growth. → 2000 Onwards 2000 onwards started the period of technological transformation and advancement, which was marked by increased institutional finance for agriculture, improved technology adoption, and guaranteed food security. The implementation of various initiatives, including the National Horticulture Mission (NHM) to enhance fruit and vegetable production, the National Food Security Mission (NFSM) to boost commodity production, the National Mission on Oilseeds & Oil Palm to diversify the production basket, and the Green Revolution in Eastern India (BREI) helped attain record production. The nation's total food grain production was projected to have reached a record 309 million MT9 in 2020–21. Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 156 editor@iaeme.com Benefits of AI in Agriculture 1. Data-based decisions In the current world, data is everything. Businesses in the agriculture industry use data to get detailed insights into every aspect of farming, from tracking the whole supply chain for product to comprehending every acre of a field and obtaining deep insights into the yield generating process. Predictive analytics driven by AI is already making its way into the farming sector. AI allows farmers to collect and analyse more data faster. AI is also capable of forecasting pricing, analysing market demand, and figuring out the best periods to plant and harvest. In agriculture, artificial intelligence can support soil health investigations to gather data, track meteorological conditions, and suggest fertilizer and pesticide applications. 2. Efficient use of resources For farmers, increasing farm yields is a constant objective. Precision farming can help farmers grow more crops with less resources when combined with AI. In order to optimize yields while minimizing expenses, artificial intelligence (AI) in farming integrates the best techniques for managing soil, variable rate technologies, and efficient data management techniques. Vertical agriculture is one example of an innovative farming technique that can boost food output while using less resources. resulting in significant cost savings, improved harvest quality, decreased usage of pesticides, and increased earnings. 3. Automation impact Agricultural is labour-intensive sector and there is labour shortages for this sector.