 General observations were taken on: (i) Physical parameters: Topography, slope, soil type, practices for soil and water conservation, fertility management, land preparation, irrigation, seed and fertilizer placement (ii) Chemical parameters: Nutrients and fertilizers (iii) Biological parameters: Planting method, cultivar selection and pest control. RESULT AND DISCUSSION The ITK is used for soil and water conservation as well as fertility management, throughout the Himalayan region for apple orchard farming under rainfed conditions. Through the use of this technology, the productivity of apple is enhanced and hill eco- system is stabilized. A majority of the farmers use the technologies in marginal lands and unfavourable farming situations. Extreme undulating and steep slopes are the major cause of soil erosion in the area. Terraces were developed with traditional method. Characteristics of the prevalent practice The discloser's orchard is on marginal land. There is no source of irrigation. The method adopted by the farmer is traditional and the local technology has been used, as he is not aware of the scientific background of the technical contour making. He did not make any terraces before planting. He was very well aware about the pit size, i.e. 3 в 3 feet, planting depth, method of planting and fertilizer application at the time of planting. The method of planting used was triangular pattern in the initial stages, but keeping in view the slope and the topography this concept Fig. 1. Discloser helping the evaluator in field mapping for slope and terrace measurements was not followed. The criterion of shift form this design was to increase the plant population per row. To conserve moisture and to check the soil erosion, the terraces were developed by considering the total number of plants in a row. At the end of row he dug out 4-5 feet of soil away from the last plant, to develop a mud wall of the terrace. The farmer did not get the soil sample analysed for soil quality, soil moisture, fertility, texture and its chemical composition. etc. The plant-to-plant and row-to-row distances varied from one point to another. Mulching application was practised through the technical details were not very sound, but the traditional mechanism with the intrinsic merits were being followed by the discloser. The discloser was well aware of the pollinizer verities as well as grafting technique. Tree spray oil was used for insect pest control. The disclosure categorically pointed out that this technology is labour intensive and has both merits and demerits. Field mapping of discloser area The experimental area is an apple orchard of about 2.5 ha area, at about 2,400 m above msl, which was established 10 years ago. The landscape is very steep, with a slope of 70-75%. About 700 apple trees were planted along the visually observed contours at a spacing of 3-6m. The trees are being fertilized regularly with  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT Fig. 2.