 While agriculture is a critical component of food and nutrition security, it is interlinked with water, energy, infrastructure, and policy challenges. Apart from this, natural resources are under additional pressure from population growth, income growth, urbanization, changing consumer preferences, and climate change. Against this backdrop, the IFPRI South Asia Office (SAO) in New Delhi engages in evidence- based policy research and capacity-building activities related to food and nutrition security in the region. This research focuses on agricultural diversification, climate change, markets and trade, nutrition and health, science and technology and governance. IFPRI’s strategy identifies six research areas focussed on: i. Ensuring Sustainable Food Production ii. Promoting Healthy Food Systems iii. Improving Markets and Trade iv. Transforming Agriculture v. Building Resilience vi. Strengthening Institutions and Governance IFPRI is based in Washington DC, USA but has a strong presence throughout the developing world, with regional offices and project offices across Africa and Asia. The offices provide local partners with broad access to IFPRI while allowing the Institute to better align its work with the needs of the regions and individual countries. In 2005, IFPRI established its South International Food Policy Research Institute ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 42 Asia Office in New Delhi. Cutting the ribbon at the opening ceremony, the then Indian Prime Minister Dr. Manmohan Singh signalled the importance of IFPRI’s collaboration with national agricultural research system (NARS) in addressing the region’s development challenges. Hope for a world in which hunger, malnutrition, and poverty are distant memories is reflected in IFPRI’s mission to seek sustainable solutions for ending hunger and poverty from the world. Current research priorities of the South Asia Office include; agribusiness and smallholder farmers, food and nutritional security, climate change, governance issues, water use/scarcity, gender and malnutrition. IFPRI conducts all its researches in close partnership with the national agricultural research system with ample emphasis on capacity development of its partners. 2. i. Overall contribution to Indian agriculture IFPRI played important roles in the development of Indian agriculture through its policy research. A few of the flagship contributions are mentioned here with. Agricultural diversification: IFPRI’s studies with NCAP and other partners on ‘agricultural diversification and market linkages’, led to sequence of reform in agricultural marketing. The studies emphasized for institutional innovations, such as contract farming, self-help group and FPOs. Research studies led to increased allocation to high value commodities for increasing their production.