 y To provide policy support to the decision makers for use of basic and strategic research in agriculture. y Organization of workshops, seminars, conferences etc. to create awareness, prioritization, scientific popularization and related issues. 1.3 Vision Harnessing science at the frontier of current knowledge and beyond for continually replenishing the well of scientific knowledge for agricultural development and prosperity of the farmers. 1.4 Mission To use frontier science and the national scientific talents to advance the problem- solving capacity of the extended NARS and the development of a dynamic knowledge base of Indian agriculture. 1.5 Strategic priority areas of NASF (as per the IX call) Seven strategic areas of NASF to cater funding in agriculture are as follows: - Biotechnology, genomics and allele mining in plants, animals and fisheries: Genomics, transgenics, genome editing (CRISPR), genomic selection, animal cloning, gene/ QTLs mapping and tagging, nutrigenomics enriching the diversity of genetic resources, allele mining. - Abiotic and biotic stresses and, quality traits in plants, animals and fisheries - Precision agriculture and management of natural resources; and application of sensors in crops, animals and fisheries: Conservation agriculture, climate change, water quality and productivity, soil health, vertical farming, protected agriculture, Block chain technology, robotics, variable-rate-technology (VRT), image analyzers, sensor technology and post-harvest management. - Nanotechnology in agriculture: Nano- diagnostics and monitoring systems, design and fabrication of nano-agri inputs, nano food systems, nano remediation and biosafety of agri-nano products. - Metabolomics in agriculture - Farm mechanization and energy: Mechanization in agriculture, farm machinery, sources and utilization of energy, alternate sources of energy, post-harvest and value addition, food processing, health food, use of agricultural wastes. - Social Sciences and policy in agriculture 1.6 Organogram of Directorate of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) 1.7 Governance of NASF NASF Board (Empowered Committee) The NASF Board is constituted and the terms of its reference (TOR) is approved by the Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture, Government of India, consist of the following External Members An eminent agricultural scientist as the Chairman Three to four subject matter experts Two representatives from other scientific research funding agencies (of not below the rank equivalent to an Advisor in the Department of Biotechnology or Department of Science Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 4 and Technology), nominated by the respective Secretaries by the approval of the Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture on recommendation of the Council.