 Planting is usually done during rainy season, when the soil in the pits has already settled. The plants should be irrigated immediately after planting. It can be planted at the distance of 5 m × 5 m for high productivity. Irrigation management: It can be grown successfully without irrigation under semi-arid condition. In the early age (0-2 year), plants should be irrigated during summer for better growth and establishment. Water harvesting techniques during the rainy season should be considered, which encourage subsequent plant growth and fruit development during post monsoon season. Nutrient management: An annual dose of about 50 kg of FYM, 1.0 kg N, 500 g P, 500 g K and 200 g micro- nutrient mixture per plant per year should be applied in full grown tree (5 year old) and it should be applied each year in two splits during first week of July and last week of August. Training and pruning: In order to maintain single stem plant, training is essential for proper framework development which enables the plant to grow straight. Usually, in untrained plants, bending of plant and multiple stem growth during monsoon season occur. Custard apple plant should be trained with removing cross branches at initial growth stage because grafted plant are vulnerable to lanky and uneven spreading in growth habits. Hence, initial to three years training and pruning is essentially Branches laden with fruits Mature fruit of Thar Amrit View of transverse section May–June 2023 13 purpose. The fruit is rich in ascorbic acid, iron, phosphorous, potassium and calcium content. Fruits are generally bigger in size having better shelf life at normal conditions. Ripened fruits have strong aroma with golden yellow colour at maturity. It is precocious and high yielder, fruit bearing occurs on lateral and terminal branches in this variety. It is highly suitable to grow in rainfed hot semi-arid regions of the country. For further interaction, please contact to: Dr A K Singh (Principal Scientist), Central Horticultural Experiment Station (ICAR-CIAH), Vejalpur, Godhra, Panchmahals Gujarat 389 340. *Corresponding author email: aksbicar@gmail.com Germplasm block of custard apple at CHES, Godhra Harvested fruits: Thar Amrit required for proper framework. Generally, the custard apple plant does not require pruning but it is essential to remove dry, dead and cross branches during May and June. Harvesting practices and yield: The fruit ripens during 1st fortnight of November. The main characteristic of ripe fruit is turning of fruit protuberance surface colour from green to yellow and spreading of protuberances of fruit. The mature fruits are picked individually by hand and in all cases care should be taken to avoid all possible damage to fruits during harvesting and storage to avoid post harvest losses. The average fruit yield per plant was recorded 24.80 kg/plant in 11th year of planting under rainfed semi-arid condition of western India.