 Prabhu Kumar, Member Secretary of the Committee and all the stakeholders whom we met for the their cooperation and advise concerning smooth functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras. I do hope that this report will be useful in further strengthening of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system and making it yet more relevant, effective and efficient in addressing the emerging problems before Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences Avenue II, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Preface Dr. R.S. PARODA our National Agricultural Research System. Further, it is my expectation that this report will receive due consideration of policy makers, development agencies, farmers and all other stakeholders involved in implementing the Krishi Vigyan Kendra system for greater benefit to our farmers in the country. (R.S.Paroda) Chairman High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra Since the establishment of first Krishi Vigyan Kendra in 1974, the country by now has a total of 630 Krishi Vigyan Kendras, covering almost all Districts of the country. For discharging the role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras more effectively and to meet the stakeholders’ expectations, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, with the approval of the Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture, had constituted a High Power Committee vide Office Order No.F.No.5-5/2011-AE-II/173-179, dated 02.05.2011 to review existing system of functioning and suggest guidelines for efficient management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. The Committee had made strenuous efforts in finalizing the report, based on an in-depth analysis, exhaustive and wide consultations with various stakeholders and detailed analysis of existing provisions. We have the pleasure in submitting this Report to the Government of India. It is our considered view that the suggested recommendations, when implemented, will make perceptible qualitative change in the existing Krishi Vigyan Kendra system so as to meet desired expectations of all stakeholders, especially the farming community. (Dr R.B. Singh) (Dr A.G. Sawant) Member Member (Dr S.L. Mehta) (Shri Rajiv Mehrishi) Member Member (Shri Chaman Kumar) (Dr B.S. Hansra) Member Member (Dr A.K. Mehta) (Dr S. Prabhu Kumar) Member Member Secretary (Dr R.S. Paroda) Chairman Submission Certificate  With immense pleasure, all the members of the Committee express their heartfelt gratitude to Shri Sharad Pawar, Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture & Food Processing Industries for constituting this Committee. The Committee also places on record its sincere gratitude and appreciation to the following officials who contributed towards completion of this task, especially for improving the relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system in the country. ●Dr. S.