 In the post-harvest control measures, drying, storage and processing are the significant aspects where contamination can be prevented in grains. Drying is an important step in ensuring good quality grain that is free of fungi and microorganisms. The harvested field crops should be dried as quickly as possible to recommended moisture levels of 10–13% for cereals. During storage, the moisture, temperature and relative humidity of the grains are the three main factors to be controlled to keep the growth of fungi in control. A relative humidity of 70% or less and grain moisture content of 12% or less will reduce the growth of storage molds and their toxins. Water activity of less than 0.7 will not favour any fungal growth/mycotoxin production in the grains. Proper drying of harvested kodo millet immediately and avoiding further moisture contact by storing in dry, air tight conditions can prevent the fungal contamination to a great extent. Temperature is another key factor that prevents the growth of molds in the stored grains. Ideally, grain should be cooled after drying and maintained at 1–4oC for the duration of storage. At low or cold temperature, fungal contaminants are not killed, but their growth and metabolism are minimal. Levels of mycotoxins in contaminated commodities prior to consumption can be reduced by food processing methods such as wet and dry milling, grain cleaning, autoclaving, roasting, baking, frying, extrusion cooking, etc. It has been reported that in case of rainfall affected kodo millet, it was never eaten as flour but as rice and was well washed before being cooked which produced no bad effects. To prevent poisoning, grains must be carefully removed from the glumes, lemma and palea or in other words milled before cooking. When different rice cooking methods used by Indians were compared, it was found that pressure cooking at 15 psi for 5 min gave maximum destruction (72%) of aflatoxin in comparison to the method of ordinary cooking (50%) and cooking with excess water (50%). Pressure cooking of rice not only destroyed the maximum amount of aflatoxins but also preserved nutrients in rice. These management practices can be effectively used for mitigating mycotoxin in different food grains. As CPA is also a secondary metabolite of Aspergillus and Penicillium, like aflatoxins, it may be presumed that similar practices can be employed for reducing the CPA contamination in kodo millet. Bio-management: Different microorganisms have been tested to limit fungal development and mycotoxin production as a possible alternative method. These microorganisms may control plant diseases through one or more mechanisms like induction of host resistance to the disease by production of antimicrobial compounds or direct antagonism to the pathogens and competition with pathogens for space and nutrients. Bio-control agents have been tested successfully as control agents for cereal diseases caused by Fusarium species.