 Further, functioning of Veterinary Institutions in the rental buildings do not satisfy the requirement of a typical Veterinary Institution and with a restricted scope for further expansion, these are not ideal infrastructure. This necessitates strengthening the infrastructure of the veterinary institutions to offer better delivery of services and to reshape it into knowledge resource centers where best practices are being disseminated to the farmers. By this, the State’s impressive cross bred cattle gene pool can be favorably exploited for increased egg, meat and milk production. It is proposed to improve the infrastructure facility of 200 veterinary institutions. With around 2600 institutions, it is imperative that such facilities are provided in block headquarters and district headquarters so that the benefits of such cutting-edge diagnostic facilities are accessible to vast majority of livestock owners. With this objective, it is proposed to provide diagnostic facilities such as Ultrasound, Computerized X rays, diathermy units, Haemocytometers, Laparoscopy etc and surgical theatres to 400 institutions over a period of five years. Enhancement of Livestock Productivity adopting recent concepts in Breeding Management Artificial insemination (AI) has proven to be very effective for the improvement of the genetic potential of animals for higher production and there is no surprise why today AI is the back bone of all breeding programs in India. In commercial dairy production,over 80 per cent of all the cattle are now bred artificially. A large proportion of the success is due to improvement of the genetic potential of dairy cattle through use of outstanding sires by artificial insemination. The economic wellbeing of a dairy farmer depends on the productive and reproductive ability of the herd that he maintains. The replacement of unproductive and ageing animals in the herd and its expansion are very important to maintain the scale of economy of the farm. Oestrus synchronization with CIDR, sex-sorted semen and MOET (Multiple Ovulation and Embryo Transfer) are some of the modern scientific techniques which are proposed for effective breeding management to enhance the livestock fertility and productivity. The entire gamut of activities and processes involved in semen production, processing, storage and distribution will be modernized to improve the efficiency of the AI program. It is proposed that 10,000 animals will be synchronized in a planned manner through the veterinary institutions of the State. About 10,000 doses of sex-sorted semen will be imported and distributed to institutions. Embryo Transfer will be conducted across the State, utilizing the elite cows of farmers as donors and other healthy animals as recipients. Departmental Farms will also be strengthened to act as ET hubs to revamp the frozen semen production, processing, storage and distribution.