 bisporus), is a worldwide problem in button mushroom cultivation. Given that, 19 selected antifungal compounds were used Test Line Control Line Sweet potato (SPFMV) Test Line Control Line Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 110 were screened for the presence of the Rpi-blb1 and nptII- containing inserts. Progeny line KJ66 was identified as containing only the Rpi-blb1 insert on chromosome 4. Prototype of a remote operated unmanned ground (UGV) vehicle: It was designed and developed at ICAR-CPRI RS, Jalandhar for spraying of agrochemicals like pesticides, weedicides, liquid fertilizers etc. on potato crop. Long term storage of fungal cultures: Sodium alginate based bead formulation of fungal mycelia and conidia for long term storage of fungal cultures were developed. Ready to use Bordeaux paste and solid formulations effective against Phytophthora spp. with a shelf life of 60 days was developed. ❑ Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 111 7. Livestock Management Nutrition Fodder production using camel dung vermi-compost was evaluated. Use of vermi-compost improved growth and yield of sorghum and oat fodder that was evident from the improvement in plant height and weight of plant. Livestock Protection Disease Informatics The National Animal Disease Referral Expert System v2 (NADRESv2), a dynamic geographic information and remote sensing-enabled expert system, developed and maintained by ICAR-NIVEDI was updated in the NADRES database, and a total of 5655 predictions for major livestock diseases of varied levels of risk were predicted and reports were communicated to State Animal Husbandry Departments (including NADEN centers), government stakeholders and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAHD), GoI, in the form of risk maps, bulletins, and post-prediction maps for necessary preparedness. The risk communication through SMSs to farmers was also continued. Novel initiatives like Farmers Empowerment through IT, Farmer Registration and Unified Beneficiary Information System (FRUITS), a web application of NIC, Govt of Karnataka, and a total of 12,095,848 SMS alerts were sent to farmers in Karnataka for different animal diseases (anthrax, babesiosis, black quarter, bluetongue, FMD, theileriosis). Nation-wide sampling plans for sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring of foot and mouth disease (FMD), brucellosis, Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) and classical swine fever (CSF) for each state/UTs of the country were formulated and provided to DAHD, GoI, for strengthening the surveillance system. The district- wise sampling plans for sero-surveillance of 14 zoonotic diseases were provided to evaluate the status of these disease in the country. Sero-epidemiology: Screening of serum samples (32,257) for important livestock diseases from different animal species submitted by various NADEN units and State Animal Husbandry Departments was carried out.