 Integrate Server-Side Rendering (SSR) with Client-Side Rendering (CSR) to create liberalized output market, active land lease market, enhanced input-use efficiency and effective collaboration between the Centre and the States. Synergise science of discovery, science of delivery and science of communication, all together; none left behind. A mere shift from price policy to income policy would enhance inclusiveness, eradicate poverty and double farmers’ income. 17 Sustainable Agriculture SCIENCE FOR THE SOCIETY AGRICULTURAL IMPERATIVES Trilochan Mohapatra Science has always facilitated addressing the problems of the society. Harappan Civilization also known as Indus Valley Civilization had extensively applied science and innovations. Innovative ideas were there and were combined with science for betterment of varied developments. There are large number of examples such as LED display systems, lithium batteries etc. where science has contributed to societal needs. Norman Bourlog said that science driven agriculture is important for overcoming hunger and malnutrition and is the essence of a country not only in agriculture but also in other fields. It is not the induction of high-yielding varieties only but the science involved in their development is important. There are a lot of challenges — Climate change, Conflicts at global level, Emerging new diseases, Land degradation and decline in quality and quantity of water. We have to think how they can be overcome by centralizing science to help Dr Trilochan Mohapatra is the former Director General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and the Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE). His areas of specialization are molecular genetics and genomics and his research accomplishments include development of first high-yielding Basmati rice variety resistant to bacterial leaf blight through molecular-marker assisted selection; physical mapping and genome sequencing of rice and tomato. He initiated mega research programmes in the frontier areas of genomics, phenomics, bioprospecting of genes, allele mining and induced mutagenesis for functional genomics. 18 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series make a prosperous society. Technology is the driver of the change, but there is lot of disparity in its adaptability in different regions, Punjab is more inclined to changes and adopt new technologies as soon as they are released, whether in the form of new seed or any other; In Andhra Pradesh, however, replacement of the old varieties with new ones is very low; Bihar lately adopted to new hybrid of maize (which is high yielding) and the value chain is active now and farmers are getting higher returns. We need to have disruptive (out-of-box) technologies to drive innovation and to replace the old ones. Farmers need better remuneration and this has been well indicated in pulses revolution, where old varieties were replaced with the new ones.