 Green hydrogen offers several advantages over traditional energy storage mechanisms such as batter- ies (being more energy dense24) and more portable and eas- ier to distribute (compared to pumped storage projects or melted sand energy storage). While the policy’s effective- ness is yet to be fully assessed, it aligns with India’s goal of carbon neutrality by 2070, emphasising research and devel- opment of green hydrogen capacity to bolster RE integra- tion. PM KUSUM is a 2019 ﬂagship scheme of GOI with a multi- pronged approach aimed at increasing farmers’ income by utilising agricultural land for solar power generation (Bhati, 2022). It focuses on replacing traditional diesel and electric pumps with solar pumps and upgrading grid-connected pumps to run on solar energy25. Additionally, the policy encourages small-scale solar power plant installation on bar- ren land, addressing local community energy needs and pro- viding farmers with extra income through the sale of green power. As of June 2023, the cumulative installed capacity is 113.08 MW, falling much short of the 2026 target of 30.8 GW, mainly due to the pandemic, limited awareness amongst farmers and insufﬁcient action by the state govern- ments26. Despite initial ﬁnancial costs, PM KUSUM offers sev- eral advantages, including increased farmer income, reduced reliance on external energy sources, improved rural livelihoods, sustainable agriculture, and land transformation from barren to productive, combating land degradation and desertiﬁcation through shading effects. Challenges and future directions for the energy sector India faces a growing energy demand due to rapid economic and population growth, posing reliability challenges. Heavy reliance on fossil fuels, especially coal, necessitates a shift to cleaner energy sources. Integrating more RE into the grid, however, presents technical hurdles. Moreover, a signiﬁcant portion of the population lacks reliable electricity, espe- cially in rural areas. Strengthening DISCOMs is crucial for a sustainable power sector. India aims for net-zero carbon emissions by 2070 but faces challenges due to low per capita income and urbanisation. GOI has adopted a three-pronged approach: demand-side policies target efﬁciency and green ﬁnancing, supply-side focuses on standards and DISCOM revi- talisation, and renewables are prioritised. We have summarised the objectives and the economic, social and environmental impacts of the energy sector policies under discussion in Table 1. It is evident that both demand and sup- ply-side policies yield favourable social and environmental results, albeit they require substantial investments. How- ever, future energy policies have room for improvement in both the demand and supply aspects. The PAT scheme has primarily targeted energy-intensive and environmentally harmful industries. While initially suc- cessful, its effectiveness has waned over time. PAT Cycles I and II (20122015 and 20162019) saved 22.