 Note: Internet of Things (IoT), soil moisture (SM), wireless sensor and actuator network (WSAN), global system for mobile communications (GSM), wireless fidelity (Wi-Fi); Bluetooth (BH), and long-range wide area network (LoRaWAN). Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 28 of 40 3.4.2. Wireless Sensor Network Architecture A wireless sensor network (WSN) comprises large or small, low-power, tinny, and autonomous devices, also known as sensor nodes. These sensor nodes are randomly deployed in a given environment, either inside, near, or outside the area of interest, to measure and monitor various parameters (such as temperature, humidity, air quality, and soil moisture). These nodes are interconnected and can communicate with each other either directly or indirectly. The data collected by these sensors is then transmitted to a central node, known as a base station, which collects and processes the data [206]. The base station can then transmit the data to a remote server, which can be used for further analysis and processing. A wireless sensor network consists of three main components: nodes, gateways, and a base station. The architecture of a WSN is typically divided into the physical layer, the data link layer, the network layer, the transport layer, and the application layer [190,193,207]. 3.4.3. Data Sharing and Communication Technologies (DSCT) DSCT plays a crucial role in irrigation management. They are utilized in central control, field monitoring, control terminals, and pressure sensing systems. Data such as soil moisture and climate variations are collected by sensors and transmitted to the central control system through DSCT (see Figure 9). Integrating these technologies allows for remote monitoring and managing irrigation systems and system early warnings [208]. Lalle et al. [209] reported that integrating information and communication technologies into the current water delivery systems is one feasible solution to access water-related real-time data. This innovative infrastructure incorporating information and communication technologies into the water supply system is called the smart water grid and emerges as the next generation of smart water management. In addition, in existing SIS applications, data sharing and communication technologies typically use wired and wireless networks. Wired technologies depend on cables and have drawbacks, such as high power consumption, cost, complexity, and maintenance issues. Consequently, wireless communication technologies have become indispensable for transmitting data from sensing devices. Obaideen et al. [210] stated that communication technologies are considered a vital and imperative point to attain successful system operations concerning the implementation of smart devices.