 Concurrently, increases in warm extremes, specif­ ically the daily minimum temperature, lead to reductions in cold extreme events in major areas of India [82]. A study found that a 1 ◦C increase in temperature results in a 3 % reduction in wheat yield. This finding does not consider potential increases in physical inputs and short-term adaptation strategies that farmers might employ to mitigate the impacts of climate change [83]. Adaptation to extreme heat is challenging for crops, as found in a case study in the Janjigir-Champa district of Chhattisgarh. Here, erratic rainfall patterns and delayed monsoons have affected food security and livelihoods, leading to migration as the most common coping strategy [84]. In southern peninsular India, a study discovered that the minimum, maximum, and mean monthly temperatures over different annual periods have decreased while rainfall has increased in the past 20 years [85]. Understanding long-term rainfall and temperature trends at regional scales is crucial for planning adaptation strategies. Mapping observed rainfall trends and their association with large-scale modes of circulation can assist policymakers in prioritizing mitigation and adaptation strategies [86]. 3.11. Climate change adaptation and carbon sequestration (cluster 4) The fourth cluster, represented by yellow-colored nodes (see Fig. 5), is known as CC adaptation and carbon sequestration. This cluster encompasses seven sub-topics: carbon sequestration, climate change adaptation, conservation agriculture, crop diversification, crop yield, Himalayas, and soil health. The statistical information about this cluster is presented in Table 9, and we review some of the key articles related to this cluster in the following sections. Soil organic carbon (SOC) levels in various agro-ecological regions in India have drastically decreased due to extractive farming practices, uncontrolled grazing, shifting cultivation, and other factors [87]. Carbon sequestration projects can potentially reduce greenhouse gas emissions and aid in climate change adaptation, but trust-building measures are required to promote the adoption of these projects [88]. The introduction of drought-resistant crop varieties can help farmers adapt to climate change and boost food production [89], but resource conservation methods like non-tillage-based systems and conservation agriculture play a significant role in SOC sequestration and in mitigating negative environmental and social effects [90]. Mangrove-rice systems offer potential ecosystem services for carbon sequestration but face specific challenges such as sea-level rise, cyclones, floods, and poor management practices that impede productivity [91]. 3.12. Vulnerability assessment (cluster 5) The fifth cluster, depicted by purple-colored nodes (see Fig. 5), represents the topic of vulnerability assessment. This cluster consists of six sub-topics: climate, crop yields, impact, Indian agriculture, sensitivity, and vulnerability.