 The KVKs are working as frontline extension institutions at the district level across the country, and has evolved its mandate over time. Initially, the mandate of KVK was to provide need-based skill-oriented vocational training to the farmers, farm women, rural youth, and field extension functionaries in agriculture and allied areas. Now KVK will function as a Single Window Agricultural Knowledge, Resource, and Capacity Development Centre to address the forthcoming challenges in agriculture. The KVK system plays a pivotal role in the transfer of agriculture technologies to the farmers while supporting initiatives of public, private and voluntary sectors for improving the agricultural scenario in our country. In fact, KVKs being involved in the process of increasing the production and productivity of various crops, thereby facilitating in bridging the gap between technology generation at the research institutions and its transfer to the farmers' fields. All KVKs are envisaged to reduce the time-lag between generation of technology at the research institution and its application to the location-specific farmer fields for increasing production, productivity and net farm income on a sustained basis. Besides, KVKs are doing a great work towards the welfare of the farming community in bringing food, nutrition and livelihood security to them. Documenting the myriad activities undertaken by KVKs is crucial for advancing sustainable agricultural technologies. As strong frontline extension systems, KVKs play a pivotal role in transforming farming practices by promoting the adoption of new technologies to enhance crop yield and quality, reduce costs, and drudgery in production. Moreover, they also sensitize farmers to explore new market opportunities, foster local entrepreneurship, and developing the skills of farmers. KVKs are the sole institutions at the district level in India for technological backstopping in agriculture and allied sectors. KVKs make all the efforts for effective documentation and dissemination of agricultural technologies and work towards amplifying their impact and contributing to the sustainable development of Indian agriculture. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the entire team of the Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR, and the 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) for their comprehensive coverage of significant events and activities of KVKs in this special issue of Indian Farming. KVKs operate through collaborative efforts among scientists, extension functionaries, and farmers, and their role in improving the socio-economic status and overall quality of life for farmers is commendable. My heartfelt wish is for the KVK system to continue propelling our agriculture sector towards new horizons.