75 t/ha under surface cultivation with high L-dopa content of 5.43% and yield of 269.67 kg/ha. (IIHR PS 2). Arka Charaka High yielding medium duration (155-165 days) variety with non-irritant trichomes, produces medium size seeds with black shiny seed coat. It yields 4.0 to 4.25 t/ha under support and 2.0 to 2.25 t/ha under surface cultivation with high L-dopa content (4.80%) and yield (200 kg/ha) (IIHR PS 6). Arka Shukla Medium duration (155-165 days) variety with the seed yield of 3.0 to 3.5 t/ha under support and 2.0 t/ha under surface cultivation with the L-dopa content of 3.86% and yield of 150.39 kg/ha. It produces medium bold size seeds with white seed coat. (IIHR Sel.3). Arka Daksha Medium duration (150-160 days) variety with the seed yield of 3.5 to 4 t/ha under support and 1.8 to 2.2 t/ha without support, produces brown mottling bold seeds with 3.72% L-dopa content and 150.39 kg/ha of L-dopa yield. (IIHR Sel.8). Arka Prabhavi Arka Divya Arka Daksha seeds Arka Daksha pods Arka Dhanwantri seeds Arka Shubra pods Arka Shubra seeds September–October 2023 55 It also maintains a nursery where the planting material of more than 70 different herbs are being multiplied. The seed and planting materials of the identified varieties of medicinal crops are also being multiplied through seed village concept. Varietal development Research work at ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticulture Research focusses on genetic improvement and improved production technologies in medicinal crops to facilitate their commercial cultivation. Crop breeding research resulted in identification of superior lines at Institute level in Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera) with higher withanaloide content, Velvet bean (Mucuna sp.) with increased L-Dopa, Mandukaparni (Centella asiatica) with greater asiaticoside content and Khasi kateri (Solanum kahsianum) with higher solasodine. The varieties were developed through selection, polyploidy and recombinant breeding. The varieties developed from ICAR-IIHR are well received by growers and Industry and have been licenced through Institute Technology Management Unit (ITMU). The details of the varieties developed at ICAR-IIHR are given in Table 1. Breeding efforts are on way in Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata), Bhringaraj (Eclipta alba), Brahmi (Bacopa monnieri) and Madhunasini (Gymnema sylvestre) and promising lines are under trails. Safe production technologies In order to supply safe, authentic, reliable raw material to the industry, it is imperative to adopt safe production technologies in cultivation of medicinal crops. Organic farming of herbs enhances soil and plant quality and organically grown herbs fetch higher revenue and are accepted well in global markets. ICAR-IIHR developed organic production technologies for Kalmegh, Coleus forskohli, Centella asiatica and Brahmi. Besides this, safe and cost-effective plant health management technologies are available at ICAR-IIHR which can be adopted in cultivation of medicinal crops.