 A suggested pool of landraces and released varieties of different crops is tested under Participatory Varietal Selection trials by adopting scientific methodology. The better performing varieties subsequently become part of the crowd sourcing trials. Each farmer in the crowd sourcing network is provided with a combination of three random varieties from the selected list that are tested along with the varieties commonly grown in the location and feedbacks are received from the farmers about the comparative performance. Thus, the responses from individual farmers, rather than the groups are collected. This information is analyzed by software-ClimMob, developed by Bioversity International, to generate recommendations for individual farmers as well as for the region. Farmers’ increased knowledge about various traits of the tested varieties helps them to select the varieties suitable for their local climatic challenges. Participant farmers are trained for quality seed production to strengthen the local seed supply system. Seeds4Needs is operating in eleven countries in Africa, the Americas and Asia-Pacific. The activity was initiated in India in 2011 and has been well received by the farmers of five states: Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Chhattisgarh. A strong network of more than 35000 farmers has been established by including oilseeds, legumes, vegetables and cereals in the trials which emphasizes the need of broadening the crop genetic base for climate-resilient agriculture. The diversity that’s been so introduced are then conserved and stored in community seed banks, established and maintained by the farming communities with help from Bioversity International. In these seed banks, an advanced low cost “zeolite beads’ technology is used which prolongs the seed shelf life by drying the seeds to a low moisture content. So the conservation of traditional and improved varieties happen within a system in a novel ex-situ within in-situ type of conservation. Bioversity International has also contributed towards making genebanks 'climate-ready' to meet challenges of the future. In Collaboration with ICAR-NBPGR focussing crops wheat, chickpea, pigeonpea, sorghum & pearlmillet a web portal, called PGRClim was established, which is an interactive online information system Women’s group making pickles from mango in the project site ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 11 (http://www.nbpgr.ernet.in:8080/climate/arcMap.aspx). This is an easy-to-use interface and with geo-referenced accessions and climate change analysis-ready for current, 2020s and 2050s climate predictions. 2.ii. Contributions during last one year Bioversity International has worked towards the sensitization, management and mitigation of spread of Tropical Race 4 of Fusarium wilt of banana with special reference to preventing future outbreak, managing existing infection and strengthening international collaboration.