 Along with this, when it comes to data collection, the use of artificial intelligence enables us to reduce the inaccuracies. This helps in improving the decision making processes. In an effort made at ICAR-NRC for Banana, Trichy to characterize weather factors to predict the development of disease (Sigatoka leaf spot) and pest (scaring beetle) in addition to disease mapping in banana growing areas, it was found that the AlexNet program has predicted the leaf spot disease with full accuracy and deployed into the mobile application, which predicts and classify the banana leaf diseases. In mango, YOLO v.5 (You Only Look Once) model, which is a vision AI model that is designed for object detection, image classification, and instance segmentation, has been initiated at ICAR- CISH, Lucknow. Initially five leaf spot diseases namely, anthracnose, red rust, phoma blight, gall and powdery mildew were considered for training, validation and testing the model. A custom program based on YOLO model is developed in Python and image augmentation is in progress. Post-harvest management and food processing Digital technologies can significantly contribute towards addressing the challenges faced by the post- harvest sector at every level of the supply chain. The digital technologies at farm level such as sensors, robots and drones, can provide precise information to farmers and help them increase yields in a climate-friendly way. Blockchain technology can enhance traceability and sustainability by monitoring the food chain from the field to the consumer. The studies on opportunities offered by e-Crop-based smart farming Sensor-based irrigation and fertigation modules in tomato Indian Horticulture 8 digital technologies in the field of nutrition concluded that they are helpful in providing tailored health advice but warned against their potential threats to the privacy of health information. Some initiatives have already been taken by research organizations for the use of digital technologies in post-harvest sector. The grading of banana fruits at ICAR-NRC for Banana, Trichy is done through CNN and it acts as the trainable feature extractor of the images and XGboost acts as the identifier of ripening stage. Development of classification tool for varietal separation of mango using machine learning has been initiated. At ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, sensors-based grading and quality assessment mode with a firm is in progress under PPP mode. At ICAR-IIOPR, Pedavegi, quality evaluation of oil palm fresh fruit bunches using Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning approaches, developing device for predicting oil content in FFB has been initiated. Currently, image acquisition and image processing of different oil palm bunches is being done.