 The white-flowered types are especially recommended for moon gardens. Naregamia alata Wight & Arn. Commonly known as Goanese ipecac, the plant is a member of the Meliaceae family and endemic to peninsular India. The plant is a prostrate, woody herb usually seen as an under shrub, with dark green shining U Sreelatha*, Shilpa P, Aswathi S Vasu, Sheron Fernandez, Simmy A M, Shajma Nafeesa Basheer and Mini Sankar Prospects March–April 2024 31 trifoliate leaves. Flowers are solitary and axillary, white with a yellow-tipped staminal tube. The size of the flowers ranges from 3.0-4.0 cm in diameter. Flowering and fruiting season is from August to December. In the habitat, the plant dries out during the summer season and seeds germinate during the next monsoon. But, when given irrigation, it retains good growth. The plant can be used as a ground cover in partial shade. The plant is also suitable for moon gardens. Eranthemum capense var. concanense (Clarke) Sant The plant is endemic to peninsular India and commonly known as Konkan Eranthemum belonging to Acanthaceae family. The plant reaches a height of 50- 55 cm at first flower bud initiation. Naturally seen as an under shrub, the plant is a good cover for thick shaded areas. Flowering is seen from October to February. Inflorescence is a dense panicle of spikes with an average length of 21 cm with 6-8 flowers per spike. Individual flowers are of size 2.54 × 2.38 cm. Flowers are brilliant blue. The plant is propagated through cuttings. Hedges and Borders Hedges and borders bring structure, definition, and aesthetic appeal to the garden, thereby playing a crucial role in gardening. Dense and closely planted shrubs are used for the purpose and serve to provide privacy, noise reduction, and windbreaks, and also define different areas within a garden. Ecbolium viride Commonly known as the Blue fox tail, the plant is a member of the family Acanthaceae. The plant is a shrub, that reaches a height of 80–90 cm at first flowering. Inflorescence is a dense spike of length 10-12 cm with an average of 8-10 flowers per spike. Flowers are of size 2.03 × 3.15 cm and with pale green colour. Flowering duration is from January to May. The plant is suitable as a hedge in partial shade or full shade. The plant is propagated through cuttings. Rauvolfia tetraphylla L. The plant is a shrub belonging to the family Apocynaceae that reaches a height of 40-50 cm at first flowering. The plant grows to a height of 3 m if not pruned. Minute creamy-whitish flowers are born in umbellate cymes. Flowers are inconspicuous. However, fruits are very showy, globose 8-10 mm across, and turn deep red when ripe. The plant is suitable for hedging in open situations. The plant is propagated by seeds and cuttings. Melastoma malabathricum L. A shrubby, evergreen plant belonging to the family Melastomataceae. The plant is commonly called Indian rhododendron which reaches a height of 1-1.5 m. Purple violet flowers are solitary, with a size of 4.50-5.