 Shri Hukumdeo Narayan Yadav, MoS, Dr Panjab Singh, DG, ICAR and Ms Shashi Misra, Secretary ICAR are also seen standing by his side while Shri Chakravarty, Director, DIPA explaining a point to the minister ICAR publications brought out by the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture both in English and Hindi PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION 227 (monthly), Phal-Phool (quarterly), Krishi Chayanika (quarterly) and ICAR Reporter (quarterly). Kheti and Phal-Phool are popular magazines, which mainly cater to the needs of farmers and students. Kheti publishes articles relating to agriculture and allied vocations such as fisheries, animal husbandry, and beekeeping etc., while Phal- Phool publishes articles pertaining to fruits, vegetables, spices and medicinal plants. Kheti brought out five special/accent issues on Environment (June), ICAR Foundation Day (July), World Food Day (October) and International Agronomy Congress (November) and Fisheries (February). New columns were started in Kheti for the benefit of farmers. Phal-Phool published its 100th issue (Jan-March) as a special number on ‘Fruit King’, mango. Krishi Chayanika, an informative agriculture digest reports latest achievements/ researches carried out in the field of agriculture and allied sciences. It presented the synopsis of latest research findings carried out in India and abroad in its columns. In addition to DARE/ICAR Annual Report (2002-2003), the Hindi Editorial Unit brought out some important books, such as Bharat Mein Dugdh Utpadan, Phalon Ke Rog Sutra, Bher Evam Bakri Nasl Sudhar, Papita and Madhu Makhi Palan. The book Phalon ke Rog Sutra, presents useful information in poetry form whereas Madhu Makhi Palan, a pocket book, provides information in user-friendly format. Some books which were in great demand were also reprinted. Production Unit The Production Unit, being responsible for technical management of all the administrative aspects of printing and publishing books and journals, including time-bound publications for the headquarters of the Council, continued to play an important role in the functioning of the DIPA. All the monthly journals (3 in English and 1 in Hindi) were printed well in time maintaining the desired print quality. Council’s prestigious quarterly newsletters ‘ICAR News’, ‘ICAR Reporter’ and ‘ARIS News’ were printed well in time using the best paper, and the state-of-art print technology to achieve the desired print quality, keeping in view their national and international readership. Besides, 50 publications in English and 4 in Hindi were printed maintaining the high class print standards. Special care is taken for the printing of annual publications of the Council required for AGM of ICAR Society such as DARE/ICAR Annual Report in English and Hindi, Agenda Notes, Speeches of Agriculture Minister and DG, ICAR, ICAR Budget Book, etc.