 The Institute has been consistently working as a Single Window System on Women in Agriculture to understand the needs and issues of women in agriculture and it has been regularly giving inputs to researchers and policy makers for gender responsive policies on the basis of research results. Apart from research on gender issues and assessment of technologies with gender perspective, research on methodologies and gender-disaggregated data were initiated. Its activities expanded to different parts of India through networking and collaboration with more than 40 Centres in National Agricultural Research and Education System. Gender sensitization of R&D stakeholders was given more emphasis. ICAR-CIWA attracted the attention of government departments and participated in policy level discussions on gender organized by Govt. agencies. During past two decades of its existence, the institute has implemented research projects in a number of areas such as Integrated Farming System, IPM technologies, horticultural models for income generation, empowerment of women in fishery, processing and value addition, gender sensitive extension, technology assessment and refinement with women’s perspective, mitigating occupational health hazards and drudgery, gender information system, gender sensitization, gender based methodologies and approaches, etc. For enhancing income of Farm Households, certain technologies and methodologies/ models developed/ tested/refined such as Resource Efficient Horticulture Model for improved nutrition and income of Smallholders, Low Cost Backyard Poultry Farming, Low cost poultry feed utilizing acid treated and fermented fish silage, Integrated Pest Management Model, Low cost weaning mix using rice flakes, wheat, 155 green gram, bengal gram, sesame seeds and sweet potato powder and azolla based low cost poultry feed. These were adopted at famers field for increasing their income and fulfilling family nutrition. ICAR-CIWA also has been developed and commercialized ‘DRWA Hand Operated Maize Dehusker-sheller. These above technologies and methodologies/models can directly help both the gender and especially for increasing their work efficiency, reducing drudgery, saving energy, time and cost and ultimately achieving the livelihood security by adopting those at field level. Programmes are being carried out for wide dissemination and demonstration of technologies at village level and in particular to Women SHGs for entrepreneurial development. Different national flagship programmes viz; Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, Tribal Sub Plan programme, Aspirational Districts, Swachch Bharat Abhiyan and SPSC programme are also being carried out by ICAR-CIWA for overall development of agrarian families especially farm women at village level. ICAR-CIWA the only institute working on women in agriculture at global level.