 Support price and deficiency payment Support price and deficiency payment Support price and deficiency payment Support price and deficiency payment Support price and deficiency payment Minimum support prices (MSP) for various commodities must reflect the society’s preference for the produce and should promote efficiency and quality. In the present form the guaranteed prices have given rise to several problems. As it is not feasible to ensure that prices would not fall below MSP in any commodity, only selected crops should be covered under MSP. Sometimes private trade turns out to be exploitative and farmers are paid price below MSP. A deficiency payment—a part of the difference between actual price received by farmers and MSP—may be made to farmer to avoid such situation. To check resale of produce the deficiency payment should be kept less than the charges (e.g., mandi fee, auction, labour charges etc.) involved in first sale of produce. This mechanism would check regional bias and commodity bias also. Government procurement should be selective. Its quantity should not exceed PDS requirement in a normal production year. Food security buffer stock should be maintained by purchasing grains during above normal production and releasing stock during low harvest years. A buffer stock of around 7 million tones would be adequate to meet supply shortfalls in most of the years. CHANGING PATTERN OF CAPITAL USE EFFICIENCY IN CHANGING PATTERN OF CAPITAL USE EFFICIENCY IN CHANGING PATTERN OF CAPITAL USE EFFICIENCY IN CHANGING PATTERN OF CAPITAL USE EFFICIENCY IN CHANGING PATTERN OF CAPITAL USE EFFICIENCY IN INDIAN AGRICULTURE INDIAN AGRICULTURE INDIAN AGRICULTURE INDIAN AGRICULTURE INDIAN AGRICULTURE Investments in agriculture resulted in improved agricultural production and made the country self-sufficient in food production. However, this pattern of growth is uneven across regions. Balanced growth requires uniform allocation of resources across regions so that total benefit is maximized due to equality in agricultural development. An analysis of incremental capital-output ratio (ICOR) in agriculture at disaggregated level would be of great help in this. It would be also useful for NCAP OUTREACH PROGRAMME The Centre in collaboration with an NGO, Society for Education and Social Welfare (SESW), Kandhla, initiated in 1999, a diagnostic study on constraints in agricultural Development in Western Uttar Pradesh. This study, covering five villages in the Muzaffarnagar district of Western Uttar Pradesh, revealed that major constraints are deteriorating soil nutrient status, declining profits from sugarcane- wheat farming, irregular and unreliable supply of power and canal water, falling water tables, and problems in marketing sugarcane due to delayed crushing season and delayed payments. There exists a broad consensus among all concerned that keeping in view the ecological and economic situations, farming in this area has to diversify.