 superior lines have been developed in rice for: (a) bacterial blight resistance- Improved Pusa Basmati I, Improved Samba Mahsuri, Pusa 6A, Pusa 6B, Improved Lat, Improved Tapaswin, similarly using MABC in the genetic background of Pusa 372, a high yielding drought tolerant variety, Pusa Chickpea 10,216 was released in 2019 in India. Several improved Quality Protein Maize cultivars like Vivek QPM- 9, Pusa HM-4 Improved, Pusa HM-8 Improved and Pusa HM-9, CML244Q, CMl246Q, CML349Q, CML354Q have been developed. Improved, HQPM-1, HQPM- 4, HQPM-5 and HQPM-7 were released for commercial cultivation in India. These are some success stories telling how we can take genomic interventions to a new horizon. Biofortified Maize-9 is a success story of translational genomic breeding. All these varieties reaching farmers can double their income; for these some policies would be required. Because of these very policies, during covid pandemic agriculture sector showed growth. Some of the Govt. policies are ‘Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojna’ and ‘Drought Management Scheme’ for risk management in agriculture; ‘Soil Health Card’ and ‘PM Krishi Sinchai Yojana’ for water management for crops. Over the past decade, genomic assisted breeding has been instrumental in harnessing potential of modern genomic resources and characterizing and 87 Cutting-edge Research exploiting allelic variation for germplasm enhancement and cultivar development. Sustaining genomic assisted breeding in future will rely upon suitable new approaches that fast-track targeted manipulation of allelic variations for creating novel diversity and facilitating their rapid and efficient incorporation in crop improvement programs. Genomic breeding strategies that optimize crop genomes with accumulation of beneficial alleles and purging of deleterious alleles would be indispensable for designing future crops. In coming decades, genomic assisted breeding is expected to play a crucial role in breeding more climate smart crop cultivars with higher nutritional value in a cost-effective and timely manner. Genomics will be applied in the future to clinical disease diagnosis and prognosis. We are hopeful to see the plant breeding community armed not only with a vast array of data, but also with the proper tools and technologies to decipher and implement the knowledge to feed 10 billion people by 2050. Key takeaways In the next 5-10 years, there would be huge genetic and phenotypic data for plant breeding programmes for developing new varieties with high yields. Maintaining a whole agri-value chain is a must. 88 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series INDIAN CROP IMPROVEMENT PROGRAMME NEW VISTAS T.R.