 which also play a decisive role in improving soil quality and sequestering SOC as well as addressing several environmental issues. Residue incorporation changes the labile pool of SOC. Retention of sun hemp residues on soil surface significantly enhanced the SOC by 0.92% Multiple ecosystem services related to increased soil organic carbon storage Indian Farming 27 June 2023 compared to no residue incorporation. Alternatively, crop residues can also be used to make a biochar (by- product of the pyrolysis: bio-waste is heated at 400– 600°C temperature in absence of oxygen). Agricultural wastes such as poultry litter, waste wood, manure, plant material, bagasse etc. are used in making biochar, which then becomes a great source of carbon. In India, about 500 Mt of crop residues is produced every year as per the report of the Ministry of New and Renewable Energy. Domestic sector consumes a big share and also an industrial sector. Apart from those, a huge portion of residues is left in the field. In some places, it is also burnt in the field itself. On-site burning of crop residues produces huge amount of greenhouse gases (GHGs) i.e., majorly methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O) that harms the soil quality by depleting SOC and environment. Conservation agriculture: Continuous cultivation of agricultural lands using similar tillage implements adversely affect the crop productivity specifically in semi-arid regions. Conservation agriculture (CA) involved 3 basic principles i.e. minimum soil disturbance, diversified cropping systems and crop residue retention may hold the key to address the C losses. Also, CA has been widely identified as an effective practice to increase soil aggregation and C sequestration compared to conventional tillage (CT). Many studied revealed that CA system has significantly enhanced the overall concentration of total organic carbon (TOC) at the upper two soil depth (0–5 and 5–10 cm). Cover crops: Cover crops are well known for atmospheric-nitrogen (N2) fixation that improves N recycling in the soil-plant system. Integrating cover crop into crop rotations highly benefits the soil by enhancing the soil C sequestration and organic matter. Incorporation of the roots and stubbles of leguminous cover crops grown for short periods helps in maintaining the high levels of SOM in some soils. Incorporation of short duration legume cover crops at the stage of flowering would enhance the soil organic matter that ultimately improves the nutrient cycling besides protecting the soil from erosion. Additionally, soil biological factors such as arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF) and microbial population and their activity would be efficiently promoted by cover crop, which have a large effect on soil aggregation.