 The optimal values of 45 mm spacing between infrared heater to grain surface and 60 s of treatment time achieved 100% insect mortality, nil egg hatchability with minimum changes in the quality attributes in terms of weight loss (0.98%), grain surface temperature (99°C), protein content (11.30%), fracturability (118.34 N), hardness (118.34 N.mm) and crushing strength (55.78 N.mm). Ozone and biogas fumigation protocol for chickpea: Chickpeas are most susceptible to insect damage by a number of primary and secondary insects. Rhyzopertha dominica is a primary pest in most cereals and a secondary pest of legume, attacking the broken or already invaded legume grains, causing irreverent damages in stored crops. A process protocol has been developed for disinfestation of chickpea grains with biogas and gaseous ozone treatment. Complete elimination of Rhyzopertha dominica, a secondary pest in chickpea could be achieved with an ozone dose of 500 ppm per 100 g sample for two consecutive days. Biogas, whose major composition is CO2 and methane, has also been found to be effective against Rhyzopertha dominica for 60 minute exposure at a flow rate of 3 L/min. ❑ ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 122 12. Climate Resilient Agriculture Development and evaluation of a bacterial formulation (Pusa Sanjeevni) for alleviating abiotic stress in rice-wheat cropping system: Pusa Sanjeevni, a bacterial formulation with 6 months of shelf life was developed based on the results of phytotron and field trials carried out at farmers’ field at NICRA adopted villages. The formulation was evaluated in rice-wheat cropping system at the farmers’ field at nine locations in IGP region of Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Out of the nine locations, the formulation was used in zero till wheat and aerobic rice at three locations. At all other locations, farmers practiced normal water conservation agricultural practices. The four bacteria in consortium assisted in better germination, vegetative growth, and increased yield under low moisture. The formulation also provided nitrogen through biological nitrogen fixation, solubilize P, K, Zn and produced phytohormones like IAA. In March 2022, unexpected rise in temperature during wheat maturity resulted into yield reduction, however, farmers from northern IGP reported reduced effect of high temperature due to inoculation of Pusa Sanjeevni. Inoculated plots reported higher yields even at reduced inorgainc N input as compared to un-inoculated fields. Adaptation to climate change through effective resource management practices in rainfed agriculture: The treatments include two tillage practices, i.e. MT-minimum tillage (plough planting) and CT-conventional tillage (two ploughings before planting + one plough planting + harrowing at planting), three residue levels: sorghum stover (SS) @2 t/ha (surface application), gliricidia loppings (GL) @2 t/ha (surface application), and no residue (NR), and four nitrogen levels, i.e.