 Three or four different places are selected for this purpose. It is practiced with belief that the smell of pine leaves carried by the running water protects paddy from gundhi bug attack. Keywords: pine leaf, irrigation channel, running water, smell of pine leaf Dr N. Prakash, Dr P.P.Pal, Dr P. Sundrambal, Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari, Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Barapani (Meghalaya)-793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J. Hill Farmg 12 (1&2): 134-135 (1999) 2364 Control of brown plant hopper by changing the micro-climate of the root zone In Tanjore delta, the farmers are controlling brown plant hopper by changing the micro-climate of the root zone since 12 years. Early rice is sown in June-July, which matures in September-October. If cloudy weather is prevalent during this period, the root zone will be conducive for multiplication of brown plant hopper. Therefore, the farmers change the microclimate by draining the water and drying the field. The plant foliage is set aside length-wise so as to allow the sunlight/ air to reach the ground. Keywords: brown plant hopper, microclimate, rice, root zone Shri M. P. Rajaram Pillai, Pandrimala, Perumparai, Kodaikanal, Dindigul (Tamil Nadu) 2394 Use of Calotropics gigantea to control brown plant hopper in nursery as well as in field To control brown plant hopper in the affected field, leaves of Calotropics gigantea are pressed and incorporated into the soil in the interspaces available. It Shri R. Sathiyaraman S. Gopalapuram, T Pudupatti, Thirumangalam, Madurai (Tamil Nadu)  controls brown plant hopper in nursery as well as in field. Farmers of Pudupattim, Tamil Nadu are using Calotropics gigantea since 8 years. Keywords: Calotropics gigantea, brown plant hopper 2378 Control of brown plant hopper in rice by a mixture of kerosene and rice husk Villagers of Khurda district of Orissa are using this practice since time immemorial for controlling brown plant hopper in rice. About 10 kg rice husk is mixed with 2 liters kerosene and is kept overnight in rice field. The seasoned mixture is applied. Keywords: brown plant hopper, kerosene, rice husk Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32 Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2303 Use of extract of neem leaves and parthenium to check infestation of Helicoverpa sp. In Shirpur and Sindhkheda tehsils of Dhule district in Maharashtra, farmers use extract of neem leaves and Parthemiun sp. to control Helicoverpa sp. Parthenium and neem leaves are taken in equal quantity and dipped in water for 24 hours, after crushing them. The extracted solution @ 20 ml is sprayed in dilution with water in 10 litres water. Keywords: neem leaves, Parthenium, Helicoverpa sp.