 This freedom is envisioned through the establishment of an Academic Bank of Credit (ABC) which would digitally store the academic Role of academic Bank of Credits for multidisciplinary Agricultural Higher Education credits earned from various recognized Higher Education Institutes so that the degrees from an HEI can be awarded taking into account the credits accumulated over a time. What is ABC? ABC would be a digital/virtual/ online entity to function like a Bank with students as account holders to whom the bank shall provide a variety of services including credit accumulation, credit verification and authentication. ABC may provide credit deposit accounts to all the students who are studying in any recognized Higher Education Institute (HEI) or even to those who are not students at present but wish to pursue education as a freelancer. The academic credits earned by a student from multiple institutions, both in online or regular mode, can be automatically credited to his account. After accumulation of credits up to a given threshold Article Pankaj Mittal Students have been given the freedom of choosing multiple subjects in an academic program, freedom of choosing multiple universities and freedom of speed for completing the program with an opportunity for life long learning. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 49 level while completing the core credits, a student can redeem the credits for a academic degree at any convenient time. Objective of ABC One of the major objectives of ABC is to facilitate student mobility across the system and includes, mobility between campus-based education and ODL, mobility between Skill- based programs and formal degree programs and mobility between universities. In other words, students can pursue their passion of learning and acquiring knowledge in any subject, area of interest for the life time, while having an opportunity to redeem the credits into a degree. Who can use ABC? This facility is for university students who want to consolidate their academic records for employment or educational purposes. It enables a student to accumulate institutional credits from numerous and/or various sources into his credit account. The ABC shall be a service to facilitate the integration of the campuses and distributed learning systems, by creating student mobility within, inter and intra university system. It will help in seamlessly integrating skills and experiences into a credit based formal system by providing a credit recognition mechanism which will help the students to plan their own learning curve and the pace at which they would like to learn. It will promote access, flexibility, mobility, collaboration, 50 transparency, recognition and integration to improve the competitiveness and efficiency of our Education System.