50% while cattle calves up to 0.07%. Yak Estradiol-17β and progesterone at a ratio of 1:2.5 successfully induced lactation in 3 out of 5 yaks. Estradiol, progesterone, cortisol, testosterone, T3 and T4 were estimated during estrous cycle and seasonal anestrous period. During estrous cycle and anestrous period, Ca, P, Fe, Zn, Cu, Mn, Co, total protein, cholesterol, glucose, and VFA were also estimated. Three out of five randomly cycling female yaks came into heat after 48-50 hr of single injection of PGF2 analogue in the luteal phase. Semen was successfully collected from yak bull of the farm for the first time. Rabbit A highly specific and sensitive anti rabbit IgG (second anti-body) was produced indigenously and is now being routinely used in EIA procedures. Embryo Transfer Technology Network Programme on Embryo Transfer Technology in Animal Production is in operation at 11 centers across the country with significant progress. Buffalo follicular fluid replaced the maturation medium by 100%, thus making IVM more economical and feasible. PMSG at 40 IU/ml was more effective hormone supplement in maturation medium than estradiol or the combination of PMSG and estradiol. Epidermal growth factor (EGF) alone at 10 ng/ml added to TCM-199 resulted in good maturation of oocytes without any other hormonal supplements. Somatic cells monolayer had no beneficial effect on maturation rate when serum and gonadotrophin were supplemented in oocyte culture media. Trypan blue (0.05%) staining of oocytes for 2 min can be used to differentiate live and dead oocytes with no deleterious effect on maturation rate. Cleavage rates of over 50% were observed in oocytes matured in TCM-199 + SS (10%) + PMSG (40 IU/ml) and fertilized in BO medium (9-10 × 106 spermatozoa/ml) along with buffalo oviductal epithelial cells. It was the best complex and defined maturation media in terms of embryo yield in buffaloes. Use of FSH-P for production of embryos was costly. Pretreatment of animals with low dose of human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) followed by estradiol-17β and superovulation with pregnant mare serum gonadotrophin (PMSG) produced viable transferable embryos with lower cost of production. Culture medium for in vitro maturation and fertilization of oocytes collected from buffalo ovaries and culture of resultant embryos were made cost effective by Semen was successfully collected from yak bull for the first time DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 120 replacing costly follicular stimulating hormone (FSH) by locally available pregnant mare serum gonadotropin (PMSG) and steer serum. A simple laprascope aided method for embryo recovery from sheep was standardized without the need of inflating abdomen. In Kheri ewes 89% embryo recovery was achieved in laparoscope aided method and 50% through surgical procedure. The overall recovery of embryos was 73%. A superovulatory protocol consisting of PMSG (200 IU) and ovagen (5.