 The seasonal average aquatic macrophytes coverage in these wetlands was between 10–40% which has the potential of adding 18.8–75.3 kg C/ ha/year. Carbon dissolved in water is also an input source of carbon into the soil. The ground water recharge helps incorporation of dissolved carbon into sediments and soil. The average dissolved carbon content in the wetlands under our study varied from 14–51 ppm, which can add 90– 327 kg C/ha/year. However, as organic matter decomposition and microbial respiration occurring simultaneously in the system, total Conclusion Wetlands are one of the most important and useful resources gifted by nature to us. They do have the best capacity among the different ecosystems to capture, sequester and retain carbon through permanent burial. Sequestration of atmospheric CO2 into soil organic carbon could be very significant in stabilizing the concentration of this GHG in the atmosphere and in achieving the target of the Kyoto Protocol set by the United Nations in 1997 which was set into effect in 2005. Therefore, we need to take all measures for protection, conservation, and creation of wetlands for the better future of our next generation. *Principal Scientist (Agricultural Chemistry), Corresponding author’s e-mail: nagsk_67@rediffmail.com amount of carbon from all these input sources will not be incorporated into the sediments or soils. But only a fraction of it, depending on biogeochemical, microbial and other factors, would be accumulated in sediments and soil and remain there for a considerable time as sequestered carbon. It is observed that 49-157 Mg-C/ha were accumulated up to 0.3 m depth into soils in different wetlands. The corresponding figures in reference upland sites was in the range of 26- 49 Mg-C/ha, which clearly indicates that wetland soils can store 2-4 times or even higher amount of carbon than the upland terrestrial soils. However, capacity of the wetlands to capture and store carbon in soil varies depending on their nature. The macrophyte abundance and diversity has been found to have a positive impact of carbon accumulation is wetland soils. To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers.