 (c) Targets set, if any and achievements in quantitative terms. H. Research Co-ordination and Management (Only for scientists engaged wholly on this work> (a) Indicate contribution made in planning new research programme or modifying/ improvement of on-going programmes. (b) The exact role played in supervising the implementation of research pro- jects, the specific problems identified and solutions suggested, if any, for solving such problems. (c) Contribution made in monitoring and evaluating the progress of the projects. (d) Details of Projects/Centres visited, (c) Contribution made in compilation and documentation of research results of the projects in the form of reports, review papers, brochures ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 75 etc., including comprehensive review of problems of research manage- ment, constraints in programme and contribution by the Research Scientists. (f) Contribution to institutional/infras- tructural development (Physical, Plant and Professional) I. Furnish a write-up not exceeding 250 words bringing out self-assess- ment by the reviewee scientist. Signature of the Reviewee Name Grade PART IV (To be filled in by Head of the Division or other officer concerned) Critical evaluation by the Head of the Division/A. D. G. with reference to the candidate's contribution as listed above in the field of research! teach- ing, training, extension etc., (to be written in consultation with the Project Leader). Signature . Name Date Designation PART V Overall assessment of the scientist by the Director/D. D. G./D. G. (The Director etc. should keep in view the self-assessment by the candidate as listed above and the analysis of his achievements by the Head of the Division in consultation with the Project Leader in Part. IV). Signature Name . Date Designation ANNEXURE II PROFORMA FOR SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION TO BE FURNISHED BY SCIENTISTS FOR THEIR SUBSEQUENT ASSESSMENT FOR GRANT OF MERIT PROMOTION PART I (To be filled initially in Director/'Headquarter Office) 1. Period for which supplementary information is given 2. Name 3. Field of specialisation/area of work and present posting : 4- Date of induction into ARS and the grade : 5. Present pay : 6. Duties assigned (highlight speci- fically any change) : 7. Any other information : PART II (To be filled in by the Reviewee only in respect of the period for which supplementary information is being given—indicate specifically changes/ additions'), 1. Post held and nature of duties (indicate specifically change of addition) 2. Recommendations/Awards 3. Publications: (a) Research Jounrnals (b) Technical Journals (c) Popular Articles (d) Reports/Reviews (e) Technical Bulletins/Books (f) Papers presented in Con- ferences/symposia ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 77 4.