, 2018). Since India has diverse topographical features, the vegetation scenarios also differ from one region to the other. Therefore, to study the seasonal changes in CO2 concentration, we have conceptually divided India into six different regions, as shown in Figure S1. We analyse the variation in CO2 concentration during the three agricultural seasons, namely kharif (June to September), rabi (October to February) and zaid (March to May) from 2009 to 2020 over India (Fig. 2) and compare it with NDVI and NEE. The NDVI represents aboveground primary production and thus, effectively detects the changes in productivity of the terrestrial ecosystem (Chhabra and Gohel, 2019). The NEE is a measure of the net exchange of C between an ecosystem and the atmosphere (per unit ground area) and is a primary gauge of ecosystem C sink strength (Kramer et al., 2002). Our analyses reveal that the CO2 concentration is lowest in India during the agricultural kharif season. It increases in rabi and reaches the maximum value in the zaid season in India. In general, CO2 concentration shows a gradual increase from January to May. A concentration of about 398 ppm is observed in January, which increases to 400 ppm by March and the peak concentration of about 402 ppm is found in May. The highest concentration in May can be partly explained on the basis of convection and planetary boundary layer height (Gupta et al., 2019). However, the concentration decreases in June and July due to the horizontal transport of CO2 depleted air parcels from the oceanic regions to India by southwest monsoon winds, and it again increases slightly in August (Fig. 2). For instance, to examine the air mass transport to the Indian land regions, we selected 6 points in 6 regions and computed the back-trajectories for the agricultural seasons. It shows that the air mass is coming from the oceanic region in Kharif season, about 50–80% in all regions, except in HIL where the air mass is transported from the northern land regions. However, as vegetation plays a significant role in fixing atmospheric CO2 during agricultural seasons (Chhabra and Gohel, 2019), an offset from the edaphic release of carbon through soil respiration and oxidation of soil organic matter (SOM) decreases the impact. This has been discussed in Krishnapriya et al. (2020) using model results, where the vertical diffusion causes negative input to net CO2 budget. India receives monsoon rainfall in kharif season, which significantly affects the atmospheric CO2 concentrations and subsequently, the crop response alters the carbon budget of the ecosystem. As per an estimate, the southwest monsoon brings in about 90% of rainfall in India during the kharif season, when intensive agricultural activities occur throughout the country. The CO2 concentration starts decreasing during this period and therefore, the lowest concentration is observed in the kharif (June to September) season.