 In case, no plant is found free from the virus infection then the plants that are infected with minimum number of viruses are selected for meristem tip culture. Using nodal/sprout cuttings, the in vitro stocks of selected plants are developed and further sub-cultured in Ribavarin (20 ppm) modified MS media for chemotherapy. This culture is then given thermotherapy at 37°C and 16 h photo period (120-200 µmol/m2/s) in the culture room for nearly 20 days. Using stereomicroscope, the apical/axillary meristem (0.2 to 0.3 mm) is excised from in vitro plants aseptically with the help of sterile scalpel, needle and blade. The excised meristem is grown in the test tubes containing MS medium with growth regulators and incubated in the culture tubes at 25oC and 16 h photo period (120-200 µmol/m2/s) in the culture room until the meristem germinates. The meri- clones are then sub-cultured through nodal cutting after it attains a height of 4-5 cm and the pedigree is maintained. The fully grown mericlones should be tested against potato viruses like PVX, PVS, PVA, PVY, PVM, PLRV, PALCV and PSTVd through ELISA, EM and PCR. The virus- free cultures should be sub- cultured once in every 3-4 weeks so as to get more number of virus-free microplants. The microplants should be hardened for 2 to 3 weeks in the poly/net house before planting in the pots filled with peat moss under mist in poly house. The plants are further tested against all above said potato viruses through ELISA, EM and PCR after 40-45 days of planting. The infected plants obtained during testing are removed and only the healthy plants are retained. Finally healthy plants obtained during series of testing will be used as mother plant for micropropagation. Microplant based seed production system Three to four weeks old microplants are transferred to protrays filled with sterilized peat moss. The microplants can be planted in protray with root or without root (cuttings). For planting with root, the media sticking to the root should be properly washed off. After transplanting, drenching is done with the mancozeb (0.25%) solution. The protrays are then transferred to the growth chambers and kept in dark for 48 h subsequently in 16 h photoperiod for 2-3 days. Once the plantlets are established in protrays (4-5 days), these protrays are transferred to hardening chamber and kept at 27oC for 10-15 days. The hardened plantlets should be removed from protrays along with peat moss and transplanted on nursery beds in mixture of soil, sand and FYM (2:1:1) in rows at 30 cm × 10 cm spacing under insect proof net house condition. 5% of the plants are tested by ELISA. All virus infected plants, off- type plants, abnormal and stunted observed during inspection are rouged out. The microplant crop is allowed to mature and minitubers are harvested. Each microplant shall yield 8-10 minitubers.