 The Council is an apex body for coordinating, guiding and managing research, education and extension in agriculture including horticultural science, fisheries science, animal sciences and natural resource management in the country. With a network of 103 ICAR institutes, 11 ATARIs, 63 State Agricultural Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities and 731 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) spread across the country, the council provides a unique agricultural system. The ICAR has played a pioneering role in ushering Green Revolution and modernization of agriculture in India through its research, education and extension activities. ICAR Mandate • Plan, Undertake, Coordinate and Promote Research and Technology Development for Sustainable Agriculture. • Aid, Impart and Coordinate Agricultural Education to enable Quality Human Resource Development. • Frontline Extension for technology application, adoption, knowledge management and capacity development for agri-based rural development. • Policy, Cooperation and Consultancy in Agricultural Research, Education & Extension. Significant Achievements • The organization has made tremendous progress in the development of new varieties of field and horticultural crops. The noteworthy achievements during the past seven years is development of 71 biofortified varieties to alleviate malnutrition. Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated 17 biofortified varieties to the nation on the occasion of World Food Day 2020. Higher replacement of old varieties with new ones and availability of high-quality seeds of such varieties contributed to pulses revolution during 2016-21. • The country also witnessed sugar revolution which is attributed to sugarcane varieties mainly Co 0238 which gives 20 tons/ha more cane yield and about 12% higher sugar recovery. In horticultural crops, an all-round progress has been seen in varietal development of fruits, vegetables, plantation and medicinal plants. Digitized seed portal, sea route transportation protocols, etc. have been quite successful in expanding the reach of seeds and export markets of banana. 2 ICAR Institutes Profile 2 • The conservation and improvement of indigenous animal breeds is national priority. Our concerted efforts resulted in registration of 56 animal breeds including poultry. Improved breed of Frieswal cow was declared a new breed in 2019. Besides, new varieties of pig, sheep, poultry were also developed with better meat quality and productivity. Towards better animal health and hygiene, we focused on developing new vaccines and diagnosis kits for efficient management of animal diseases and increasing animal productivity. • The induced breeding technologies, with a focus on ornamental fishes, standardized along with technology backstopping for promotion of open-sea cage farming. Several nutraceutical/health products from seaweeds were developed and commercialized.