 Knowing very clearly that major portion of an individual life is spent in ensuring the economic wellbeing of his family, he emphasized and promulgated strong ethical principles for the economic activities and for sustaining societal harmony. He was against accumulation of wealth and hoarding by few individuals. He was propagating that economic development means the right for everyone in a society to survive comfortably and coexist harmoniously. He administered “survodaya” which advocates that everyone should be given an opportunity to earn according to his capacity following just means. In this process the natural resources of the ecosystem should be preserved. He advocated the development of agriculture and village industries for uniform distribution of incomes with least efforts. Gandhiji’s ethics on farm family sustenance further emphasizes that the crops produced must be processed in the villages and fosters establishment of rural processing industries. Such village based industries, according to him, not only improve upon the income levels of the farmer and his family but also will enhance the rural employment potentials and self-reliant rural societies. During his periods nearly 80% Indian population were living in villages and so he believed that all the 80% of the population will get employment and livelihoods by this model. He was true. Even in the current days nearly 50% of Indian population lives in village and more than 80% of these are dependent on agriculture in some way or other. They are either cultivators or agricultural labours. By the model of Sarvodaya if all these villagers are offered good employment for a self-reliant living then the growth and development of India will be tremendous. He advocated for Khadi and all other village industries and worked hard in promoting them in the country till his last days. The Government of India follows the concepts and ethics of Gandhiji and has launched many schemes for rural development and rural employment. Ministry of Rural Development, for example, is implementing Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme (MGNREGS), Deendayal Antyodaya Yojana – National Rural Livelihoods Mission (DAY- Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 178 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR NRLM), Deen Dayal Upadhyay – Gramin Kaushalya Yojana (DDU-GKY), Pradhan Mantri Awaas Yojana – Gramin (PMAY-G), Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana (PMGSY), Shyama Prasad Mukherjee National RuRBAN Mission and National Social Assistance Programme (NSAP) to bring about overall improvement in the quality of life of the people in rural areas, through employment generation, strengthening of livelihood opportunities, promoting self- employment, skilling of rural youths, provision of social assistance and other basic amenities. Gandhiji advocated that the agricultural produce must be processed in the villages before distribution and marketing.