 The twigs are dried and cleaned before using it for storage-structure construction. Height and width of this structure are adjusted according to the amount of onions to be stored. Its top is covered with thatch and the Shri A. Venkataya, village Narkuda, Rajendranagar, dist. RR (Andhra Pradesh) 500 030 Shri Kailash Bharti, S/o Shri Gheesa Bharti, village Mayapur, Peesangam, dist. Ajmer (Rajastan) 305 001 Shri L.P. Veluchamy, B.E., Seepalakottai, Odaipatty, Udhamapalayam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 626 540 Content GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2984 Storage of onion on roof top 2985 Onion storage in attic 2986 Panchpali made of jackfruit bark for storage 2987 Earthen pots for cooking and storing the grains structure is placed on stones. By using this storage structure, onion can be stored for 3 to 12 months. To provide good ventilation, this storage structure is built in open space, exposing it to the sunlight. Onions are well protected from insect pests and diseases. Keywords: onion storage, dori, redgram twigs For safe storage of onion, dried, cleaned and selected onion bulbs are taken along with leaves. This onion bunch is horizontally hanged on the roof top. Onion is kept horizontally. This method provides good aeration and keeps onion free from pests and diseases. Hanging of bunches facilitates easy circulation of fresh air, and there is no secondary infection. These onion bulbs are used for sowing as well as for cooking purposes. Keywords: onion, roof top Onion is stored by a special method, in which dried, cleaned and selected onion is taken for storage. A structure is made of wooden piece of 3 m width and 7 m length. Along with it, thatch material is used on which onion is kept horizontally. This method provides good aeration and keeps onion free from pests and diseases. Keywords: onion storage, attic, wooden piece Panchpali is a storage device. It is used to store different types of spices in the kitchen. It is made of wood and is easy to handle. Keywords: panchpali, spice, wood Earthen pots can be used for cooking foods or sometimes to store food items. Normally food cooked in Shri D. Lakshmanan, S/o Shri Duraisamy. Kothamangalam Maiyam, Maruthan Street, taluk Alangudi, dist. Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 614 624 Shri P.M.S. Dhavamani, S/o Shri P.M. Samivel Nadar, Middle Street, Odaipatly, Udhamapalayam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 540 Shri Mangala Kalidas Sawaikar, Tamsuli, Marcela, Ponda, North Goa(Goa)403 107 Shri Tato D Gawas. Porye, Ranewada, Sanquelim, Sattari, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator earthen pots has a very fine and very North Goa (Goa) good taste. Use of mud pots for all 403 505 traditional storage practices is seen all over India. Keywords: earthen pot, cooking, store Content 10 Horticultural Crops Code Title of the ITK No.