 After cataloging, a detailed record of the process, time spent in preparation, cooking, weights of each ingredient used, and cooking method were recorded while standardizing the process. How­ ever, for the first time ever, the time taken to prepare these meals was also standardized along with the nutrients. Both - the time taken for preparing the ingredients and the actual cooking time were recorded. Detailed nutrition data was compiled using the standardized recipes and nutrient information from the food composition tables from India (Longvah et al., 2017). For each standardized local recipe, a data set was created that contains information on calories (kcal), macronutrients (proteins, fats, carbohydrates), micronutrients, and cooking time. The catalog of the foods eaten was used to develop a codebook (in English and Marathi -the local language), which could be used as a tool in the multi-round survey for collecting 24-hour dietary intake data. The respondent burden was minimized by recalling recipes and associated quantities, using standardized cup and spoon measures, instead of recalling ingredients in each recipe (see supplementary material for the recipe names)4. 3. Methods For this study, we use data from all the primary surveys mentioned in the previous section. 3.1. Measuring nutrient intakes As a part of the 10-month panel study, women were asked to recall recipes eaten in the past 24 h on a random day during each month of the study. They were also asked to recall the quantities consumed using the standardized measures of cups and spoons. Using the standardized recipe-level nutrient information, we calculate individual-level daily nutrient intakes for women. Nutrient consumption per day was measured in terms of: (1) calories (kcal); (2) macronutrients: protein (g), fats(g); and (3) micronutrients: iron (mg), zinc (mg), vitamin A (µG). Calories typically reflect individual’s energy intake and are extremely important in determining the individual’s overall health. Similarly, proteins and fats to are essential, as they serve the purpose of muscle development and providing the required energy for the body. We exclude carbohydrates in this analysis, because the calorie measures capture the impact of carbohydrates. 3.2. Measuring time trade-offs- the opportunity cost of time In this paper, we measure time trade-offs via women’s opportunity cost of time, that is, the wages forgone when a woman is engaged in household activities instead of working for the market wage. We use village-level women’s wage rates to measure the opportunity cost of women’s time. The use of opportunity cost of time in lieu of time use is common in the economics literature (Prochaska & Schrimper, 1973; Senauer et al., 1986). Studies note that time use can impact nutrition/ health indicators and vice-versa- thereby inducing simultaneity bias (Behrman & Deolalikar, 1990; Bhargava, 1997). This has been noted both in theoretical modelling as well as empirical work.