 Farmers are advised to treat vegetable seeds with Trichoderma viride or Pseudomonas fluorescens @ 5-10 g/ l of water for controlling damping off. Seeds should be soaked for specified period of time and dried into shade properly before sowing. Vegetable nursery should be sown in line to avoid further spread of any diseases on 15-25 cm high raised beds. FYM @ 4 kg/m2 should be incorporated in soil during nursery bed preparation. Proper drainage should be provided to avoid water logging and rotting of seedlings. Line spacing of 10-12cm should be marked before sowing of seeds. Ideal time for sowing of King chilli is Dec- Jan. The medium of nursery bed should consist in the same ratio of vermicompost, garden soil and sand (1:1:1 by volume). Sowing should be done on raised nursery beds of 1m width with convenient length or on plastic trays or wooden boxes etc. Transplanting of seedlings should be done 30-45 days after germination in the month of Feb- March for early harvest. Prepare fields for rabi season vegetable crops by mixing 15-20 tonnes/ha of well decomposed Farm Yard Manure. Apply compost/ FYM to soil 3 weeks before sowing or last ploughing to get better results (increased fertility and water holding capacity of soil). Enrich FYM with bio agents like Trichoderma and Pseudomonas sp. Grow triple disease resistant varieties of Tomato like Arka Rakshak, Arka Samrat for higher yield. Transplanting of seedlings should be done at 60 x 60 cm or 45 x 45 cm. Apply NPK @ 120:80:80 kg/ ha, 400g of seeds is sufficient for raising nursery for transplanting 1ha. Ensure staking with bamboo while planting indeterminate varieties of tomato like Arka Rakshak and Arka Samrat on raised bed. Plants should be kept weed free and avoid water stagnation. Biodegradable poly films may be used for mulching to conserve soil moisture and control weed infestation. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 261 Proper weed management practices of crops like mulching with locally available materials (rice straw, rice husk etc.) prevent to soil erosion and conserves moisture thereby controlling weed growth. Other practices like hoeing, earthing up, irrigation should be followed timely. Need based irrigation and other intercultural operation should be carried out at regular intervals in vegetable crops. Constant monitoring of crops against insect pest attack and roguing of infected plants regularly is advised. In solanaceous crops, constant monitoring of borers by using pheromone traps 10-15/ha is advised. Hand glove and mask should always be worn during the spraying of fungicides and insecticides in the field and equipment should be washed properly before and after use. After harvesting of the vegetable crops (cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, beans, tomato, potato, and onions), the supply of the harvested produce to market may be done via the agency/sellers/ vendors, middlemen identified by the State Government or with the help of FPO and SHGs as per the demands.