 These blended fabrics are suitable for fashion apparel, garments, shawls, stole, scarf, saree etc. Fine yak fibre was washed with non-ionic detergent and light alkali solution followed by acid neutralization to clean the fibre from adhering dirt, dust and greasy material. 89 tex yarn was manufactured from nettle and fine yak fiber blend in the blend proportion of 50:50 and 75:25. Manufacturing of high value products from yak fibre: Yak plays an important role in the life and living of Indian tribes found in the difficult terrains of Himalayas. Two types of fibres, viz. the coarser and fine fibres are harvested once in a year by manual shearing and cutting process. A yak can produce 500–1,500 g of coarser and 250–750 g of finer fibres per year. After fibre surface modification 75% yak fibre was possible to blend with 25% jute fibre to produce 25/75 jute/yak fibres blended yarn. Fine yak fibre was also blended with nettle fibre [Nettle/Fine yak fibre (75:25, 50:50)] to produce yarn which was used to make shawl with silk or cotton wrap. Commercial exploitation of yak fibre can enhance the economic condition of Yak herders. Nettle/Silk fibre-based shawl and fashion garment Nettle/Yak fibre-based stoles Yak fibre based fabrics and warm garments Natural gum based dietary fibre as encapsulant for delivery of functional feed: Encapsulation of beta carotene was attempted with dietary fibre from guar gum using liposome encapsulation technique. The liposome NINFET-JAC: Low cost pesticide residue analysis in food Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 139 encapsulation is useful for delivery of functional nutrients due to the low absorption and increased bioavailability rates than traditional oral delivery. It requires phospholipid molecule to make a vesicle around the core material. The soya lecithin along with dietary fibre from guar gum in different combination was used to encapsulate beta carotene using liposome encapsulation technique for improving the loading stability of beta carotene. After encapsulation, the encapsulated beta carotene loaded liposomes was lyophilized for longer duration storage. The load of the FE-SEM images of dietary fibre encapsulated beta carotene through liposome encapsulation technique beta carotene in the encapsulated liposome was estimated using UV-Vis spectrophotometer and encapsulation efficiency was found 78–80%. The liposome prepared with higher dietary fibre concentration showed higher stability as compared to the control. Characterization of liposome encapsulated beta carotene was carried out using FT-IR spectroscopy, particle size analysis and Field Emission-Scanning Electron Microscopy (FE-SEM). ❑ Liposome encapsulated beta carotene with dietary fibre Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 140 12.