 New Delhi 110 012 India. Lase; typeset at Xped,te Compute; Systems.A-I. Ground Floor. Pandav Nagar. Opposite Naraine Bus Depot. New Deihl 110 008: and printed at Mis Power Printers. 218-A. Ansari Road. Daryaganj. New Delhi 110 002. Preface to the Fourth Edition The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, as the apex organization in the field of agricultural research at the national level, has its principal mandate to promote agricultural research, education, extension and other allied disciplines of agriculture. To achieve its mandate, taking into consid- eration the national priorities, the scientific, technical, administrative and supporting categories of staff have always been working hand in hand. With the objective to attract the best talents under the various func- tional groups, identified for recruitment of technical personnel, the !CAR had launched its Technical Services in 1975 for technical personnel, similar to Agricultural Research Service for assisting scientists. The Technical Service Rules for the management of the Technical Services were framed and were brought out as the first edition of the Handbook of Technical Services of the /CAR in March 1978. Its second and third editions were revised and printed in November 1985 and March 1995, respectively. With the passage oftime, certain anomalies were experienced in the operation of the technical services; which came up as the result of the over- lapping pay scales and their merger by the Central Pay Commission from time to time. Also, a need was felt to revise model qualifications for all categories of technical personnel as the talented and qualified technical per- sons are available for direct recruitment. Thus, the revision exercise by the ICAR in technical service rules will provide better prospects not only for existing technical personnel but will also enable ICAR to attract qualified and experienced personnel through direct recruitment. I am sure that the present edition of the Compendium would be helpful to the technical staffofthe ICAR as well as to the !CAR management, to manage technical services. I feel happy to place on record my appreciation to the efforts made by Shri A S Sethi, Under-Secretary (Tech.) in compiling and updating the Com- pendium in a record time for reference and use in the Council. New Delhi Marcil 2000 (RS PARODA) Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research Preface to the Third Edition The contribution of research towards overall development of national agricultural sector has widely been acknowledged. In this endeavour, every ICAR employee (scientific, technical, administrative and supporting) has made valuable contributions. In order to derive their best, it is essential for the management of any organization to create a healthy work-environment especially by fonnulatingsuitable personnel policies. Fortunately, the !CAR pursues these policies through well-planned technical service rules.