 Releasing of bio-agent in Complete control after December 2019 18 months CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 81 HORTICULTURE Crop Production Fruit crops Customized micronutrient mixture for Nagpur mandarin: On the basis of survey and soil and leaf analysis of 18,000 ha citrus growing orchards of Vidarbha region of Maharashtra, a customized micronutrient mixture containing iron, manganese, zinc and boron was prepared and field validated for benefit of citrus growers. Technology for cultivation of papaya under net- house: Cultivation of papaya under net house has been developed for obtaining additional yield of 100 kg in Co. 8 variety and 40 kg in Red Lady variety of papaya and without incidence of papaya ring spot virus (PRSV). Biocompatible nanoclay-polymer composites and nanoparticles for grapes Clay-polymer composites (CPCs) using starch, guar- gum, chitosan as polymer and clay, sugarcane bagasse and grape pomace as filler were synthesized. Particle size anlaysis of polymer composites (clay, clay + pomace) and nanoparticles was confirmed and observed to be less than 100 nm. Percent iron loading was maximum (5.3%) in guar-gum grafted composite having pomace as a filler with Fe-EDTA, whereas zinc loading was also maximum (6.25%) in guar-gum grafted composite when clay and pomace were used as filler with Zn-EDTA. Clay-polymer composites and nanoparticles as a fertilizer carrier will help in increasing micronutrient use efficiency especially in case of Fe and Zn having low availability in calcareous soils. SEM micrographs of chitosan grafted CPC loaded with zinc and iron SEM micrographs of starch grafted CPC loaded with zinc and iron Technology for cultivation of papaya Development of a ‘Litchi Maturity Kit’ for judging optimum time of harvest A ‘Litchi Maturity Kit’, that provides an easy and handy option to accurately judge acidity of litchi fruit was developed. The kit is based on the established principle of neutralization of acids with a base (NaOH) using phenolphthalein as indicator. A reliable indicator of optimum fruit maturity is the attainment of 18–20°B TSS and acidity of less than 0.5%. Diagrammatic representation of ‘Litchi Maturity Kit’ Canopy management in ber: An improved ‘Y’ shaped training system with significantly more fruit yield (23 tonnes/ha) in four year old orchards of ber varieties (Gola, Thai, Goma Kirti and Thar Sevika) has been standardized. Multiplication of clonal rootstocks of apple: Technology for production of clonal rootstocks of apple by hardwood stem cuttings using soilless growing medium was standardized. It comprised 30 cm cutting along and treatments (Cocopeat 75: vermiculite 25) under greenhouse conditions with cent per cent rooting. Plantation crops Nutrient mixtures for coconut: Two formulations on nutrient mixture, viz. Kalpa Poshak and Kalpa Vardhini were developed for the enhancement of growth of juvenile palms and improving the productivity of adult palms, respectively.