 After the successful validation of vendor/beneficiary account, the vendor/beneficiary details may be shared with PFMS through SFTP mode for generation of vendor/beneficiary code in PFMS which will be informed back to the SNA’s IT system so that the IT system can send the transaction details as MIS to PFMS having PFMS vendor code specified at credit level in MIS file. (Message Exchange format specified in REAT integration document). f. SNA and IAs logs into the IT system. The Payment order (FTO) is processed on the system and validated against limits for all Program Implementing Agencies making payments. The FTOs are then shared with the SNA’s Bank through an IT integration with the Bank. g. The Bank makes the payments through NACH (NPCI) and sends updated response status of all such payments to the SNA’s IT system. g. The transaction data for all successful payments made is then required to be shared with PFMS as MIS data (Message Exchange format of MIS data is specified in REAT integration document) through SFTP integration. i. All MIS/dashboard is made available on SNA’s IT System (and on PFMS) viz. SNA’s Bank Account Balance, limits vs Expenditure by PIAs, etc. Model – 2 Use of external system through REAT integration (MIS + Payments) External system provides for all operations but payment is done in PFMS. The integration should be as per the integration protocols designed by PFMS. The process is elaborated as under: a. State Nodal Agency’s (SNA) IT system will be integrated with PFMS as an external system through SFTP mode. b. All the masters like Scheme codes, Scheme definition, Scheme hierarchy, Scheme components will be shared to External SNA’s IT System by PFMS through an API. c. The State Nodal Agency code and all its Program Implementing Agencies code, LGD master, payment purpose master, DBT mission code, PFMS bank/branch master and other relevant master data will also be shared to External SIS by PFMS through an API. 91 d. SNA allocates limits to all child agencies based on budgetary requirements received from child agencies on their IT system (SIS). The limits set on SIS are exchanged with PFMS through SFTP based REAT Integration. These limits may change or be reallocated by SNA depending on the additional requirement of funds or underutilization of funds by Implementing agencies. Any modifications in the limits are to be shared with PFMS through SFTP as mentioned earlier. e. State Nodal Agency as well as child implementing agencies have to first validate their beneficiaries through Beneficiary validation service of PFMS. The beneficiary details will be uploaded on SNA’s IT system by SNA and IAs which will then be pushed to PFMS in XML format through SFTP mode for validation or the SNA system may use Centralized Beneficiary validation service on the fly to validate banks details/Aadhaar details while capturing the Vendor/Beneficiary data in SNA’s IT system.