 The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming November 2020 49 Coldwater fish farming in Indian Himalayan region: Challenges and opportunities Debajit Sarma and Suresh Chandra ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand 263 136 Indian Himalayan region is abounds in innumerable rivers, streams and lakes. Of these, upland aquatic resources and mid-Himalayan region laying in the states of Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, part of West Bengal, Sikkim, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland and Meghalaya in the Himalayan range and Western Ghats like the Munnar high ranges in Kerala, Nilgiri hills in Tamil Nadu and Bababudang hills in Karnataka are some of the potential areas offering enough resources for coldwater fish farming in the country. Under the influence of lower temperature regime, the farming of selected cold water fast growing species i.e. rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss), exotic major carps i.e. grass carp (Ctenopharyngodon idella), silver carp ( Hypopthalamichthys molitrix) and common carp (Cyprinus carpio) and few exotic ornamental fishes and minor carps are in practice among the people of Indian Himalayan region.