 It is proposed to take up e- content development of UG courses in Agrl. Engg. and Forestry, and PG courses in major subjects of Agriculture, Horticulture, Forestry, Fisheries, Veterinary Sc., Dairy Tech., Home Science, Agrl. Engineering. 2.7.2.2.2. Development of Text Books & Instructional Material: Emphasis will be on organization of Workshops for development of instructional material, content development for print and on-line, edited and books with joint partnership/authorship from India and abroad. Also, a massive drive will be undertaken for text book writing and a provision is made for 200 books, 2 in each discipline with Rs. 3.00 lakh each including honorarium. 2.7.2.3. Establishment of Centers of Excellence in competitive mode Centers of Excellence (30-35 in number) will be developed in AUs in competitive mode in new and emerging areas identified and those who fulfill the minimum eligibility requirement of 10 faculty in discipline and demonstrated leadership in the area. The support will be Rs. 15.00 crore for 5 years per Centre for equipment, contractual Staff (RA/PDF), consultancy and training (both national and international), 5% grant for construction (not major but minor modifications, alteration, renovation, addition), and contingency for operational expenses up to 20% of budget. 2.7.2.4. Establishment of Model Colleges for Rural Development Education Agricultural education concentrates mainly on agricultural development involving land based activities such as crop production and management, animal husbandry and fisheries. There is a need to shift from primary to 19 secondary agriculture and non land based activities so as to enhance livelihoods in the rural areas. This calls for reorienting agriculture education to include the components of rural development so that farmers can increase their opportunities for realizing higher income and employment. It is imperative that the education component should include agro based industries involved in processing, grading, packaging, transportation, storage and the whole set of activities relating to supply chain management. In the process, the focus should be to make farmer - producers as agri –entrepreneurs. This move towards non land based activities calls for skill development to meet the demand for agribusiness activities. Towards this end, establishment of Model Colleges imparting holistic education inclusive of agricultural and rural development in selected regions will be undertaken on pilot basis. Initially, three colleges to be established in SAUs covering hill, tribal, and backward regions by restructuring of the existing UG programmes for imparting technical education including entrepreneurship and skill development in various facets of rural development. 2.7.2.3. Increasing scope and effectiveness of net-working with educational institutions and research organizations 2.7.2.3.1.