 Therefore, this intervention was suitable to local conditions with due management and bird protection mechanisms from stray dogs and cats. Enterprise module Under the Enterprise module, a primary processing unit (PPU) was established at Gangapur village, Jharasangam Mandal (Block) to provide processing services to the farmers such as cleaning, destoning, grading, hulling and pulverising which helped farmers to get quality produce and better returns from the primary processed produce on custom hiring basis. Such processed quality produce had 3-4 times higher prices than their raw produce. Continuously, skill development through different trainings on primary processing and value-addition of millets was done under enterprise module for several stakeholders to enhance quality, production and promotion of entrepreneurship. A few women farmers who were trained had set up their own business in their villages or at block level by selling millets-food products and earning an income upto ` 2,00,000/annum. With introduction of roti making machine in two SHGs, each group is earning a net profit of ` 26,040/month. They were also linked with other entrepreneurs at the district level to promote their business of roti selling. The profit was shared among all members of that particular self-help group. Horticulture module Fresh produced vegetable from the backyard kitchen gardening with 10 improved vegetable technologies Net returns obtained from millet crop interventions from 2017-2023 Nellore sheep Vanaraja poultry Indian Farming 14 November 2024 were utilized by the selected farmers for their home consumption which helped them to save expenditure on purchase of vegetables (` 1100-1500/month). Farmers found it beneficial, providing continuous vegetables round the year for improvement in their nutritional status. Backyard kitchen gardening Natural resource management module Under NRM module, an intervention of zinc application in sugarcane increased yield (60 t/ha) which was higher than the yield of farmer’s practice (50 t/ ha) which enabled to earn an additional income of ` 86,375/ha. A herbal wild animal repellent (Herboliv+) was introduced in farmers’ fields to address serious problem of crop damage by wild animals like wild boars, deer and black bugs. Farmers were satisfied with the use of wild animal repellent as this organic solution was more effective in preventing wild boar damage and thereby, reducing heavy yield loss of many crops. Farmers also expressed that they observed substantial benefits of adopting line sowing as well as ridge and furrow methods as it reduced the seed rate by 20% over broadcasting and enhanced efficient utilization of water and nutrients, respectively. They also expressed that this practice helped them to reduce the thinning operation. Herboliv+ spraying in red gram Line sowing in Foxtail millet SUMMARY Farmers’ attitude towards millets and allied farming changed to positive.