 The implement is hitched to the yoke by ropes and is driven by a pair of bullocks. It covers 4 acres/day. Above 50% of the farming community use this implement to break the clods and pressing the soil (Bulandshahr, Uttar Pradesh, Karnal (Haryana), Sirmur (Himachal Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 44 Hante machine for seed bed preparation This implement is made up of nandi, mathi, kolly wood and weighs about 232 lbs, operated with two bullocks and one person for clod crushing, pulverizing and pressing the soil. It covers 2 acres/day (Coorg, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 118 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 45 Halube for breaking clods It is made up of local wood and bamboo having 12 lbs in weight which can be operated by one or two persons to cover 1 acre/day. The depth of the penetration in sandy loam soil varies from 2 to 2.5 inches. It is used for breaking clots, to pulverize the soil and to collect weeds previously uprooted. It is also used for making cross furrows at a distance of 10-14 inches after making length wise furrows to sow seeds or to transplant the seedlings at a point where the length- and width-wise furrows cut (Coorg, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 46 Bakhar for secondary tillage It is made up of mild steel and wood and is operated by a pair of bullocks for seed bed preparation for summer tillage before the onset of monsoon. The average draught in light black soils is about 130 lbs and covers 1 acre per day. The depth of penetration varies from 1-3 inches and is used by all farmers in Madhya Bharath. (Mandsour, Madhya Pradesh; Raipur, Chattisgarh; Akola and Usmanabad, Maharashtra; Chittorgarh, Rajasthan; Adilabad, Andhra Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 47 Varadi for land preparation It is manufactured by local artisans and is used as bullock source of energy in drylands for prepartion of seed beds for dry paddy to cover the seeds after sowing. It hitched to the yoke by tying to beam with ropes. It covers the seeds upto 2 acres in day with a penetration of 4-6 inches in black soils. Average draught in black soils varies 90 to 120 lbs (South Malabar, Kerala). ICAR (1960) 48 Mallot for breaking clods It has a wooden block with a handle. Occasionally one end of the block is tapering. This is used for breaking clods (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 49 Halubi for secondary tillage in red and lateritic soils of Karnataka The materials used to fabricate the implement by the local artisans are mango, jackwood and hardwood. It is hitched to the yoke of two bullocks by ropes for preparation of seed bed for different crops. The average depth of penetration of this implement is 2 inches and the average pull is 140 lbs. This harrow covers the area of 3 acres/day. Similar type of harrows are used in Gulbarga, Coorg, Raichur (Karnataka) Medak, West Godavari, Srikakulum (Andhra Pradesh) Ferozpur (Punjab) Jabalpur, Balaghat ICAR (1960) 119 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.