 If the fish seed could not be sold out in time shift to bigger size pond and manage it properly. yy Fish Disease Management - Observe fish health regularly. Any disease symptom seek advisory from KVK. 127 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Encouragement for Fish Seed production using Happa breeding and hatchery (IMC & exotic carps.) yy Nursery rearing - pond preparation, liming & application of manures along with seed stocking of Indian Major Carps, Exotic carps etc. yy Proper arrangement of techniques of fry for fish fingerling production. yy Utmost care of Water management during the seed production/ rearing technology mainly for IMC & Exotic carps. yy Follow the farm made fish feed preparation techniques. yy Proper steps for maintaining health and hygiene during fish farming operations. yy Maintain water quality pH : 6.5-8.4 DO : 5-10mg/l Turbidity: <30cm yy Management of water quality Apply lime @ 500kg/ha KMnO4@ 3-4mg/l yy Stocking Fingerlings : 10000-15000/ha Ratio : 4:3:3 (Surface: Middle: Bottom) Brood fish : 1250kg-2500kg/ha Avoid over stocking. yy Feeding: Feeding should be done twice daily either with commercial pelleted feed or home-made RB+MOC @ 1:1. For brood fish feeding with feed containing30% crude protein with vitamin & minerals supplement. yy Breeding operation should start by the end of April. yy Pond preparation and management for nursery raising should start as breeding season approaches. yy Prevention of disease –outbreak: Apply liquid turmeric (1.6kg + lime (10kg) mix in water & spread in 0.16ha. 3-4 times after every 3 weeks. 128 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Livestock yy Follow good management practises related to feeding, housing (clean, dry, well ventilated) water and general hygiene to keep animal healthy yy Observe animals for any abnormal behavior/posture/feed intake/ rumination/defecation and urination twice daily (morning and afternoon) yy Restrict the movement of visitors to the farms and follow strict bio- security procedures for poultry and animal farms yy Deworm all animals and poultry for external and internal parasites in consultation with veterinary doctor or state Veterinary Dept. or KVK yy Follow strict vaccination programmes for animal and birds. Vaccinate against Ranikhet, IBD, Fowl pox, Marek disease in poultry birds. In pig vaccinate against swine fever. Vaccination for FMD, BQ and HS for bovines. yy Regularsupplementationofmineralmixtures@2kg/100kg feed and add Salt 1kg/l00kgfeedtofeeds. yy Health care of sick animals should be done in consultation with local veterinarians/ KVK personnel. If medicines are not available use indigenous traditional knowledge for management of ailments.