 Pollinator population declines, both in natural and agro-ecosystems, have recently become a matter of concern. Large-scale insecticide use, clean cultivation, large tracts of monocropping, lack of off-season flora, and climate change are all contributing to pollinator decline. The pollinator density in commercial orchards is significantly lower than in undisturbed orchards, according to surveys conducted by ICAR-CISH under the NICRA (National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture) project in major mango-growing areas of the country. Insect pollinator conservation is critical in the mango ecosystem Though the practice of introducing honey bee colonies to achieve pollination is popular, it has limited application in mango because of the efficiency of hive bees, such as Apis cerana and A. mellifera, in mango pollination, is often questioned due to the small amount of pollen produced by mango. Scheduled insecticide sprayings to control leafhoppers and inflorescence caterpillars during the blossom period make introduced honey bees vulnerable, resulting in colony desertion and thus limiting their economic viability. Aside from the cost, another important limitation for the large-scale use of bee colonies in mango orchards is the availability of an adequate number of colonies within a reasonable distance. Pollinator conservation strategies in mango orchards yy Protection and encouragement of alternative nectar sources for pollinators. Nature is full of pollinators; however, the concern is how to attract them to the orchard. There are two suggested ways, first, make some artificial attractant bait stations in the orchard so that surroundings pollinators are attracted. The second is to bio-intensify the orchard with pollen and nectar-producing flora like lucerne, Cassia occidentalis, Cassia tora, Indian Senna, Cotton, Vicia angustifolia, cowpea, maize or lantana, etc. yy Provision of protection and encouragement of pollinators by developing entomophagy parks in orchards where round the year pollen and nectar are available for pollinators. yy The modern generation insecticides like neonicotinoids are reported to cause great damage to pollinators in mango. These chemicals are widely used to protect the mango crop from hoppers at the flowering stage which is the crucial pollination stage. There is an array of other chemicals which are relatively less harmful to pollinators. These chemicals may be assessed for their efficacy to the hopper and their safety to pollinators. The schedule of the spray on the mango for the management of major pests may be modified in line with the pollinator’s safety. yy Restricted weeding and weeding operations within orchards may lead to the growth and maintenance of various kinds of weed flora. Being small heightened these weeds have no competition with mango rather enrich underground soil with various kinds of root exudates and multiplication of underground flora and fauna.