1 Training Needs Analysis A training need may be defined as the gap between the actual and desired levels of performance that can be bridged through training. Training Needs Analysis (TNA) is the first stage of the Systematic Approach to Training (SAT). This is considered to be the most crucial stage as the further stage depends upon it. If this stage is well done, it can be considered that the training itself is half done. This is because the trainees can easily connect themselves with the actual training, when it is given to them, as the training actually addresses their training requirements.Training needs analysis is a stage, where the requirements of training are identified. As described in the basic tenets above, any training should be imparted to address specific identified requirements (demand-based). For the first time in ICAR, identification of training need of all categories of employees has been done by all the Institutes during 2015-16 and 2016-17. The Institutes have identified 253 overall training need areas (Annexure VA-D) for all categories of employees (128, 55, 39 and 31 training areas for Scientific, Technical, Administrative staff including Finance, and Skilled Support Staff, respectively). Immediately after Training Needs Identification (TNI), all the ICAR-Institutes/HQs were advised to develop Annual Training Plan (ATP) for all the categories of employees keeping in mind that about 20-25% employees get opportunity during a year, particularly 7 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) those employees who have not got any opportunity of training in last 3-4 years. An Annual Training Plan is a comprehensive training plan to be prepared annually by every Institutes/HQs for all the employees working in the Institutes/HQs before the start of the next financial year (including those who are posted in the subordinate offices or Regional Stations/ Centers), irrespective of the Category of such employees. This plan includes the training interventions described in the Cadre Training Plan (CTP) of the Cadre under its exclusive control, and also the training interventions required to develop Institute-specific-competencies in those employees who are posted in the Institution. First time in ICAR, all ICAR-Institutes/HQs have been developing ATP based on TNA for all categories of employees since 2016-17. On the basis of ATP developed, the employees are being deputed for various kinds of training programmes either within the ICAR or outside the system. 7.2 Design and Development of Training Programmes It is important to ensure that suitable training modules are identified, designed and developed to address the training needs of the employees. The content should be properly developed to impart necessary knowledge, skills and behaviour to the trainees.