 Therefore, it can be easily managed by proper training and pruning, regular irrigation, and the spraying of micronutrients @ 3-4 ml per liter. Granulation – It is a physiological disorder that deteriorates fruit organoleptic quality. It is characterized by an enlarged hard, dry juice sac, off-flavours, and greyish fruit peel colour, leading to loss of edible and marketable value. It occurs due to water shortage, excess nitrogen, and unseasonable warm or persistent cold weather during fruit maturity and over-maturity. Orchardists keep proper and efficient irrigation and nutrients management, early fruit harvesting at proper maturity, and spraying of ZnSO4 + CuSO4 @ 0.5%. Fruit sucking moth – Adult moth pierced by strong barbed proboscis into fruits and suck juice during late evening-night hours during the August. Infested fruits turn to yellow and drop premature after 5-8 days of infestation, and bacterial and fungal infestation has started at the site of attack (pin-hole). Therefore, light traps should be used as indicator tool, smoking and firing wood at 7.00-9.00 pm to attract insect as cultural management. Collect and disposed fallen fruit, and spray with Imidacloprid 17.8% SL @ 0.5 ml or Dimethoate 30% EC @1.0 ml per liter to avoid crop loss during evening time. Lemon butterfly – Larvae are damaging stage and causes severe loss during nursery stage or in young orchard. Larvae appear like birds dropping in early instars and turns green in colour when start feeding on leaves. Larvae eat edge to mid rid of leaves, and mid-rib is only left during severity, because of which leaf looks defoliated and stunted. It can be managed by use of systemic insecticides like Imidacloprid 17.8% SL, Chlorantraniliprole 18.5% SL and Dimethoate 30% EC etc at their recommended dose when plants sprout new flush during Febuary-March, July-August and October month. Maturity stage of fruit and freshly harvested Daisy mandarin May–June 2024 9 Black fly – Both nymph and adult suck sap from tender twigs and leaves during March-April, July–October, when plants sprout new vegetative flushes. Leaves become curled, yellow, and shed at the severity. In addition, black flies give blackish appearance and grow sooty mould due to honeydew, and it is severely reduced the photosynthesis apparatus and fruit yield by premature dropping. Therefore, keep proper drainage and weeding, timely removing of water sprouts or root suckers, avoid excess pruning, optimum use of nitrogen fertilizers, and keep away from host crops like cotton, pomegranate, and guava. It can also be controlled chemically by spraying Fosmit 50 EC @ 2.0 ml or Imidacloprid 17.8% SL @ 0.7 ml or Triazophos 40 EC @ 1.25 ml per liter water during March-April, July-August and September-October; Ridomil Gold SL @ 2 g or Fosetyl Al 80% WP @ 2.0 g per liter especially for sooty mould control.