 The main features of the formulated egg biscuits are high in protein and fibre, low fat contents and calcium and phosphorus, with low in moisture content, also having shelf life more than 3 weeks at ambient temperature (30°C) in air tight PET jar. Meat Pork products: Functional pork products with health benefits (PUFA enhanced, fibre enriched, antioxidant rich, low salt and low fat/ low calorie) were developed and simple yet viable processes were standardized to incorporate the locally available medicinal plant parts (leaves/ fruits/ buds etc.) in the pork product’s formulations. These materials were found to have positive effect on preventing microbial spoilage and fatty acid oxidation during the storage period. Scientific interventions were introduced in the packaging of pork and pork products to improve the brand value of the products during marketing. Kit for species identification of pork: Gold- nanoparticle-based, sandwich-format lateral flow immunoassay (LFIA) test kit was developed for point- of-care test for species identification of pork. The kit allowed the detection of as low as 0.5% (w/w) pork in raw and heat-processed meat mix, and commercial meat samples within 15 min including sample preparation. Meat composition of Kadaknath chicken: Feeding of the dried Moringa leaf powder (MOLP) to day – old to marketing age (17th week) Kadaknath chickens resulted in higher content of intramuscular fat with more favorable proportions of unsaturated fatty acids, including n-3 acids, and decreased level of saturated fatty acids. It also improve sensory properties. Portable meat production and retailing facility (P- MART): To promote hygienic meat production, Portable Meat Production and Retailing Facility (P-MART) was developed. Patent application was submitted for protection of Intellectual Property (Patent Application No. 202111016135). The technology was transferred to private entrepreneur. Wool Quilt from coarse wool: Carding machine output padding web’s areal density was optimized in the range of 250 to 450 gsm depending upon the end use requirements. Prepared quilt comforter was subjectively assessed for aesthetics, softness, smoothness, warmth and breathability, and found to have mean values of 3.5 to 4.5 (0–5 scale). Thermal insulation and warm/cool feeling were assessed in the range of 0.234 to 0.300 m2 K/W and 0.13 to 0.16 W/cm2, respectively. Composites from coarse wool: Different type of composite samples were prepared with resin to fabric ratio (60/40) by hand lay-up technique using coarse wool from Malpura and Deccani sheep. Maharashtra Deccani wool composite showed highest tensile strength (34 MPa) while Malpura wool composite registered least tensile strength (25 MPa) and attributed to the differences in the areal density of various non-wovens. A good adhesion was found between Maharashtra non-woven and epoxy resin which is responsible for less void present in the material, eventually resulting in high strength.