 - How can smallholder farmers access and utilize climate data to inform water management decisions? - What opportunities exist to improve farming systems within agro- ecological zones? - What community incentives might facilitate CRA adoption and sustainability? Although these questions have been partially addressed in the ICAR policy paper (Rao et al., 2019) and previous comprehensive reviews (Benitez-Alfonso et al., 2023; Baraj et al., 2024; Goswami et al., 2023; Datta et al., 2022; Bawa and Seidler, 2023; Simpson et al., 2020), further research is needed to understand how CRA can be adapted to the specific challenges of water-scarce regions in India. This study investigates the potential of CRA systems in managing and planning sustainable agri- culture under changing climate conditions in these regions. It also pro- vides strategic insights for local governments to guide investments in climate risk assessment and support stakeholder knowledge to improve adaptation planning. Aligning CRA strategies with the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), this study demonstrates their capacity to address climate challenges while improving livelihoods. 2. Methodology We employed the PRISMA framework (Moher et al., 2010) for formulating questions and selecting relevant papers included in our meta-analysis (see Fig. 1). This review process was conducted from research studies published from May 1990 to October 2024 using two primary databases: Scopus and Web of ScienceDirect. We also used a series of keywords and their combinations, including “climate-resilient agriculture,” “climate change,” “climate-smart agriculture,” “sustain- ability,” “agricultural adaptability,” “environmental indicators,” and “food security,” to guide our search. Out of the 520 documents screened, 279 papers were identified as relevant based on various CRA indicators and were primarily used in this study for further investigation. Fig. 2a illustrates the annual increase in the number of publications over the past decade within CRA research, which aligns with the find- ings of Baraj et al., (2024). To visualize recurring word frequencies across thematic areas, a word cloud was generated using keywords from the titles and objectives of 208 peer-reviewed papers published between 2014 and 2024 (see Fig. 2b). In this visualization, the size and instances of words represent their occurrence rates. Similar terms, such as “environment” and “environmental,” were aggregated. The word cloud analysis highlights key trends, highlights key trends, showcasing prominent themes such as “climate,” “resilience,” “agriculture,” “sus- tainable,” “environment,” “water,” and “remote sensing." 3. The need for CRA in India According to global population estimates, India was the second most populous nation after China, with a population of 1.38 billion in 2020 (The Economic Times, 2023). Despite occupying only 2.4% of the world’s land area, the average landholding size in India is merely 1.08 ha per state.