 Yield and quality degrade as the plant advances in age due to overshading, crowding, and a decrease in light penetration inside the canopy. Suitable varieties for high density planting Regular bearing varieties are suitable for high-density orcharding of mango; dwarf varieties that are responsive to pruning are usually preferred. Amrapali: A hybrid between ‘Dashehari’ and ‘Neelum’, suitable for high density planting due to dwarfing nature, fruits mature late (Last week of July to mid August), fruit weight 150-350 g, remain green at ripening stage, good taste and flavour. Arunika: It is a cross between ‘Amrapali’ and ‘Vanraj’, dwarf canopy with medium fruit size, fruit weight 150-300 g/ fruit, coloured and attractive fruits; mature late, suitable for high density planting. Ambika: It is a cross between ‘Amrapali’ and ‘Janardan Pasand’, fruits oblong to oval in shape, light yellow colour with dark red blush, fruits 250-360 g in weight, TSS 21° Brix, regular bearer and late maturing variety, average yield 80 kg/tree at 10 years of age, suitable for high density planting. Mango variety Ambika in HDP July–August 2021 19 Mallika: A semi-dwarf variety, cross between ‘Dashehari’ and ‘Neelum’, suitable for high density plantation. It is prolific bearer, fibreless, orange in colour, flesh firm suitable for slice making also. Fruit mature late in July to first week of August, 350-480 g fruit weight. Use of paclobutrazol Shoots induced due to pruning after the harvest of the fruits may remain unproductive for a year therefore for flower induction paclobutrazol application is practiced. Paclobutrazol reduces annual flushing and shoots linear growth resulting in a smaller canopy. Flowering and fruit production are greatly helped by the application of 4 g of Paclobutrazol per tree (3.2 ml/m canopy diameter) to the soil. Recommended dose of paclobutrazol is dissolved in 15-20 liter water and applied in manuring ring 1.5-2.0 m away from the trunk where the feeding roots are present. It is applied 90-100 days before flowering in the month of September, followed by light irrigation. Canopy architecture development During the first 2-3 years of HDP, training is a crucial instrument for developing tree canopy. This is done in order to establish a strong framework for the future, ensuring that the branches are appropriately spaced and capable of carrying the maximum fruit load. For HDP, grafted saplings are taken after planting; 3-4 scaffold branches (as primary branch) at 45-60 cm height from ground level are allowed spirally at 10-15 cm interval. Cut the apical portion of primary scaffolds to allow secondary shoots to grow on it and then tertiary shoots. The upright growing shoots are required to be removed and the scaffolds be allowed to develop at 45-60 degree angle and after attaining the length of 50-60 cm it must be headed back. These operations lead to complete canopy structure with increased number of short shoots.