 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Banjam: It is a native of India, Shrubs or trees 6 m tall, glabrous, branchlets prominently angular, 5-7 mm in diameter, petiole canaliculate, 1-2 cm; leaf blade elliptic or oblanceolate, 12-20 x 4—7 cm, papery, conspicuously black, punctate and punctate-lineate abaxially, not prominently punctate adaxially, base cuneate or narrowly decurrent on petiole, margin subrevolute, entire, apex acute; lateral veins 20 on each side of midrib, raised on both surfaces, marginal vein absent. Inflorescences at bases of new shoots, paniculate with racemose or rarely corymbose branches, 3- 8 cm. Flowers leathery, pink, 1 cm. Sepals broadly ovate to reniform, 3 mm, densely black punctate, base subauriculate, margin subentire or crenulate, ciliate, scarious, apex rounded. Petals nearly free; lobes broadly ovate, 9 mm, punctate, margin entire, hyaline, apex obtuse or acute. Stamens subequalling petals; filaments 1/4 anther length; anthers linear-lanceolate, densely punctate dorsally, longitudinally dehiscent, apex acute. Pistil subequalling petals; ovary globose, densely punctate; ovules numerous, multiseriate. Fruit purplish red or blackish, oblate, 7-9 mm in diameter, densely black punctate. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 813 Treatment of dysentery problem due to overgrazing Volume 2, page 351 Amla Amla: Bengali: amla, amlaki; Gujarati: amali, ambala; Hindi; amla, amlika, aonla; Kannada: amalaka; Malayalam and Tamil: nelli; Sanskrit: adiphala, dhatri, amalaka; Telugu: amalakamu. Amla: Emblic myrobalan, Indian gooseberry Amla: Emblica officinalis Gaertn. Amla: Its fruits are rich source of vitamin C. The fruit is acrid, cooling, refrigerant, diuretic and laxative. Raw fruit is eaten as an aperient. Dried fruit is useful in haemorrhage, diarrhoea and dysentery. In combination with iron, it is used as a remedy for anaemia, jaundice and dyspepsia. A fermented liquor prepared from the fruit is used in jaundice, dyspepsia and cough. The flowers are cooling, refrigerant Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Branch and aperient. The root and bark are refrigerant. The fruits are used in the preperation of writing inks and hair dye. The dried fruit is detergent and is used as shampoo for the head. The seeds are used in the treatment of asthma, bronchitis and biliousness. Amla: A small or medium-sized deciduous tree with smooth, greenish grey, exfoliating bark. Leaves feathery with small narrowly oblong, pinnately arranged leaflets. Fruits depressed globose, V^-lin. in diameter, fleshy and obscurely 6-lobed, containing 6 trigonous seeds. The tree is common in the mixed deciduous forest in India ascending to 4,500 ft on the hills. It is often cultivated in gardens and homeyards.