 As per the report, more disturbing features of this development are: (i) the ill-conceived legalization of affiliation of private colleges by certain SAUs against the provisions under the Model Act of ICAR for State Agricultural Universities, (ii) prevailing disregard to ensure existence of a minimum physical plan before private institutions are licensed to begin imparting education and (iii) absence of an enforcing mechanism to accredit these institutions after they have been established. Additionally, with profit as the prime motive, private institutions end up hiring substandard human resource for teaching. Hence, there is an urgent need for establishing an “Agricultural Education Council of India (AECI)” by the Parliament which will be a regulatory authority to maintain quality of agricultural education on the lines of Veterinary Council of India (VCI). Alternatively, the mandate of VCI could be extended to all the disciplines of agriculture and placed under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) along with current functions of Education Division of ICAR to make it a single window system for higher agricultural education at the national level, so critical for creating competent human resource for future growth of Indian agriculture. A decision was also taken in the Annual Vice-chancellors’ Conference held on 30-31 January, 2019 at New Delhi regarding admission of candidates passing out from private agricultural colleges/ universities in view of the Gujarat High Court Order and Hon’ble Apex Court Order. Based upon this decision, the candidates passed out from private Agricultural Universities/Colleges not accredited by ICAR, even through affiliated to public funded / Govt. institutions, are not eligible for admission through the ICAR’s All India Entrance examinations. O ne of the major factors for low productivity in India is low investment in agricultural research and education. The technology-led agriculture growth can be expected to be achieved only with the strengthening of higher agricultural education. Enhancing the quality of human resource is an essential pre-requisite for implementing and upgrading research programmes, developing technologies, evolving institutional arrangements to face challenges and harness opportunities. Vertical integration of agricultural education is the key to improve the quality of human resources. The lack of qualified manpower in adequate numbers in the frontier areas of agricultural science and technology is one of the major constraints to deliver at grassroots levels for achieving farm prosperity and in taking forward the desired growth rate in agriculture sector. There is a direct relationship between investment in education and poverty elevation as it helps in sustenance of agricultural productivity and profitability.