D Research Scholar Department of Corporate Secretaryship1, Department of Commerce2,3 Alagappa University, Karaikudi. E.Mail:kanagarajesh25@gmail.com, arumugam.uc@gmail.com, manidamcom@gmail.com ABSTRACT The progressing wellbeing emergency around COVID-19 has influenced varying society. Protecting the life of individuals experiencing the infection just as bleeding-edge welfare responders has been the need of countries. Governments have swung into activities since the Corona virus assault made an extraordinary circumstance. Rules gave by the Ministry of Home Affairs, Government of India on 15 April 2020 after the expansion of lockdown till 10 May 2020, excluded agribusiness, agriculture, creature farming, poultry, and fishery, and partnered exercises from lockdown limitations; workers can go to work, markets are to open, acquirement is to occur and Agri-input shops and agro-handling focuses are to work. MNREGS work will likewise initiate. Powerful spread of the rules and usage on the ground will be urgent, as ranchers gather the rabbi yield and start arrangements for the Kharif season. Going ahead, one can predict numerous difficulties as ranchers and homestead workers set out to modify their lives and jobs. This has led to a fall in the world economy especially in developing countries like India. India with its suitable control has however tried its best to combat this crisis with a country wide lockdown to prevent the health implications. But agriculture being the backbone of the country and the GDP has been impacted in a negative way with enormous disruption in the provide series and cropping decisions for imminent agricultural seasons. All these have a negative implication on the farming group of people that is and will be undergoing serious inimical and mind losses. Key words: MNREGS, GDP, Farmer Producer Organizations, Country Lockdown, MSME. I. INTRODUCTION India has made an early move to constrain the spread of COVID-19, requesting a 21-day across the country lockdown for its populace of 1.3 billion individuals beginning March 25. The epic corona virus has spread generally in India moderately as of late contrasted with different nations, and the quantity of detailed diseases is low up until this point, with 5,274 cases and 149 passing’s as of April 8. In any case, as COVID-19 cases are expanding quickly, there is extraordinary worry about the ailment's latent capacity spread and effect. India must be prepared for a potential flood. Testing ought to be extended altogether. The administration sees the example of the spread of COVID-19 as like the 2009 H1N1 flu pandemic, which means the spread is probably not going to be uniform. After the 21-day time frame terminates, it wants to keep up the full lockdown in "hotspot" zones and loosen up it in different spots.