03 log CFU was observed at 90 °C, 35 V/cm and 60 s holding time while processing pineapple juice in lab scale COH. The minimum residual activity of polyphenol oxidase, peroxidase and bromelain enzyme was observed to be 31.8±0.8 %, 17.8±0.4 % and 1.2±0.4 % respectively when pineapple juice was treated at 90°C, 40 V/cm and 60 s holding time. No significant (p > 0.05) changes were found for total soluble solids, pH, acidity and the processing did not affect the colour of orange juice. Optimum values of PME enzyme inactivation (54.53 %) and ascorbic acid (31.32 mg/100 ml) were obtained at voltage 20 kV treatment for 2 min and sample thickness of 2 mm for orange processing. A maximum of 87% polyphenol oxidase and 90% peroxidase Metabolites identified both in high and low fertile Holstein Friesian bull seminal plasma as assessed by HR-MS. Quantitative Test for retting enzyme activity of three bacterial cultures Pectinase Pectinase Xylanase Xylanase Cellulase Cellulase 1=control, 2= TNA 2, 3= TNA 3 and 4= ATCC 13542 1=control, 2= TNA 2, 3= TNA 3 and 4= ATCC 13542 Qualitative Test for retting enzyme activity of three bacterial cultures Cold Plasma Processing of Orange Juice. 55 Salient Achievements of the Projects inactivation of pineapple enzymes was achieved by cold plasma treatment. Residual activities of enzymes and ascorbic acid were significantly reduced with the increase in treatment time and voltage while decreasing the sample thickness for all fruit juices in the study. Valorization of industrially produced soybean and groundnut de-oiled meals/cakes by extraction, purification and production of protein isolates: A novel process to produce protein isolates/concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals (example soy meal, groundnut cake) without addition of acid has been developed. The developed process provides about 5% higher yield of protein as compared to the existing chemical process. In selection of biological agents, BBE4 was isolated from dairy products and its 16S rDNA sequence has been registered with NCBI vide GenBank accession number KF974325 and MTCC, IMTECH. The protein produced using ICAR-CIPHET method shows better properties in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. The protein yield is about 35-36% of the total weight of soymeal and 25% of total weight of groundnut cake whereas, in the existing process, maximum 30% protein yield from soymeal can be obtained. The developed method comprises novel bacterial strains isolated from a food sample for producing protein from de-oiled meal/flour. The supernatant obtained after precipitation of protein from a particular batch may be used for precipitation of another batch and so on. The protein produced through the new process may find demand at national as well as international level to boost immunity.