 We collected- i) high-frequency data on time use and diets; ii) wages and market-level prices2. 2.1.2. Time use, diets, wages, and market-level prices To obtain data on detailed time allocation patterns and diets of women across agricultural seasons, we conducted a ten-round (ten months) primary survey from April 2017 to January 2018. Each household was visited once every month on a randomly chosen day, except the weekends, and the same men and women were interviewed as the household survey explained above. Further, we also collect men’s time use data for comparison. Since most households only crop in the Kharif3 season, we excluded the data collection for February and March 2018. The activities in February and March 2018 resemble patterns in April 2017. In each visit, the respondents were asked to recall their time use and dietary intake in the past 24 h. The comprehensive list of all the activ­ ities was first cataloged using the recommendations from the Indian Time Use Study (Hirway, 1979, 2009). These activity classifications were modified and adapted to the local context of Chandrapur district (see A1 ). Detailed 24-hour recalls of the diets were also collected for women and children. Further, income and expenditure data, health in­ formation, height, and weight (for women and children) data were collected on each visit (see A2). We collected daily wages for women and men at the village level. Wages were collected for every village each month on the day of the survey. Similarly, we collect market prices of all foods from all the neighboring village-level markets, which were collected at each visit (each month) for ten months. 2.1.3. Recipe standardization This research involved standardizing recipes of locally consumed dishes, to obtain precise measures of nutrients and the time taken to prepare and cook these recipes. India’s nutrient information is compiled by the National Institute of Nutrition in India (NIN) and captures nu­ trients available in edible portions of raw foods. Two major issues arise for measuring the nutrient intakes per day across seasons: (1) it is difficult to obtain precise estimates of home-prepared meals; and (2) the time-intensive nature of 24-hour dietary recall methods increase the respondent burden significantly (Coates et al., 2012). Considering that most households in rural India consume home-prepared meals, it was necessary to arrive at the recipe level estimates for both macronutrients and micronutrients. For accurate measurement of nutrient intakes and to reduce respondent burden, we conducted recipe standardization of all the most commonly eaten dishes. Following the methodology adopted by Harvest Plus, we first conducted detailed focused group discussions to develop a catalog of most of the recipes eaten in the region (Gwatkin et al., 2007).