 Scientist (Soils), and Dr S S Masand, Sr Scientist (Soils), Department of Soil Science, Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) 176 062  RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT METHODOLOGY Validation of the claim of the ITK was done by experimentation, as per details given below. Two sets of treatments were imposed to meet the objectives of the study. 1. For in-situ rain water harvesting and profile moisture conservation, three sets of treatments, in addition to control, were tested: mulching, terracing + mulching and terracing + trenching + mulching. 2. For testing chaal, five types of dug-out tanks were constructed at appropriate locations in the experimental area, viz., (i) silpauline-lined tank, (ii) bitumen (tarcoal) -lined tank, (iii) cement + concrete-lined tank (RCC), (iv) mud-plastered tank, and (v) unlined tank (control). The whole experimental site was divided into three blocks for imposing these treatments. i. Terracing: land shaping between two apple trees along the contours in such a way that rain water flows towards the tree basins. ii. Trenching: small trenches of appropriate size were dug above the tree basins to harvest rain water in situ. iii. Mulching: The tree basins were mulched with FYM, pine needles, pebbles and cocopit, in addition to unmulched control. Observations were taken on: i. General features of the area ii. Initial characterization of soil for texture, water retention, particle density, bulk density, infiltration rate, pH, organic C and available NPK iii. Soil moisture (0_60 cm depth) in tree basins under different mulch treatments. iv. Water storage and seepage losses in different dug-out tanks v. Rainfall and potential evaporation of the area. The project on evaluating traditional chaal system of water harvesting from rains and other natural water springs etc. in the apple orchard was initiated in July 2002. Soil samples were collected at six locations in the orchard up to a depth of 60 cm at 15 cm depth increment. The six soil samples for each depth were thoroughly mixed and a composite sample was prepared. These composite soil samples were analysed in duplicate for texture (International Pipette method), organic carbon (Dichromate oxidation method of Walkley and Black), available N (Alkaline Permanganate method), Olsen's P, exchangeable K (Ammonium acetate method), pH (1:2.5 soil:water suspension) and particle density (Pychnometer method). Soil-moisture retention of disturbed soil samples (soil passed through 2 mm sieve) was determined at saturation —30 and—1,500 kPa water potential, using Pressure Plate apparatus. Bulk density was determined using 3 cm long and 5.6 cm diameter metal cores, by taking soil core from the middle portion of each soil layer. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Soil properties Important chemical and physical properties of the soil of the experimental site are given in Tables 1 and 2. Table 1.