 Impact: Due to instant good result and return from new Hampshire breed, the farmers of the nearby villages are either purchasing the piglets from the breeding units or crossing the local female with the Hampshire boar at the farms of the beneficiary farmers and thereby improving the local breeds of the locality. 2. Integrated Farming System opens a new window for economic empowerment of rural Farmers in Boloma area Sri Phoni Bora is the eldest son of Late Sunaram Bora, Burakuri Gaon, Boloma, Teok of Jorhat district. He has passed High School Leaving Certificate during the year 1974 with 58 percent marks and taken admission into Pre Degree (Science) in J. B. College, Jorhat. He has successfully completed Pre Degree (Science) in the year 1976 but could not proceed for higher studies due to very poor financial status of his father. He therefore, strongly decided to be self employed by taking farming as a means of livelihood and help his brothers & sister to continue State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 58 their higher studies. Initially he has started vegetable farming by taking advantage of his high land situation and winter paddy in the low lands. He has expanded his farming into other sectors like fishery, dairy, piggery in an integrated farming mode. At present Sri Bora is cultivating summer & winter vegetables, winter paddy and other cash crops like sugarcane, banana, coconut, arecanut, betel vine, black pepper & indigenous fruit crops. He is very successful in three tier faming system i. e. poultry, piggery & fishery. He is also producing vegetable seedlings of HYV & hybrids in polyhouse at large scale and selling to the local vegetable growers and neighboring villages. He is marketing his farm produces in the nearby daily & weekly markets by engaging local unemployed youth of his village. Sri Phoni Bora is one of the successful farmer in Integrated Farming System (IFS) in Teok Area and more than 40 educated unemployed youth of the locality are following him and adopting Integrated Farming System by utilizing the available resources for their livelihood security. One of the important innovations of Sri Phoni Bora is the development of raised & sunken bed system in medium land for vegetable cultivation where vegetables cannot be grown in normal situation. By adopting this technique, he has bought another 0.50 ha under vegetable cultivation during rainy season. Plan, Implement and Support: From the interest and feedback received from farmers of the Boloma area, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Jorhat has planned to introduce new high value vegetable crops in the area and accordingly trainings was organized for the farmers of the locality. After taking the training from KVK, Jorhat on scientific production technology, Sri Borah and the other farmers of the area has initially started cultivating new crops like Broccoli in the area.