 Mandate and activities • Information and Communications Technology (ICT) based surveillance, monitoring of pest population, research and promotion of pest smart IPM technologies for major crops. • On farm validation of IPM technologies, forging linkages with commodity-based crop research Institutes, AICRP/ AINP and capacity building. Activities • ICAR-NCIPM is actively involved in development, validation and dissemination of AESA based IPM technologies through collaborative programs with different agencies, e-pest surveillance in agricultural crops and capacity building in IPM. 3. Salient achievements • IPM technology validated and disseminated in different agricultural crops viz. rice (25104 ha), cotton (1106 ha), vegetables (1356 ha), fruits (207 ha), oilseed (285) and pulses (600 ha), totaling 28685 ha across India during the last decade. • ICT based pest surveillance and advisory system implemented in 185 lakh ha in 25 field and horticultural crops across 11 states (Maharashtra, Haryana, Tripura, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Odisha, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh, Rajasthan) resulting in judicious use of pesticides and increase in production. • National Patents: 08, International Patents: 03; 4 technologies commercialized, resulting in resource generation of Rs. 07 crores. • Three Trichoderma isolates with biotic and abiotic stress tolerance submitted to ICAR- NBAIM, Mau (Accession No. NAIMCC-SF-0059, 60 & 61). 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Location specific IPM modules developed for different crops viz., rice, cotton, maize, mustard, chickpea, green-gram, black-gram, pigeon-pea, groundnut, okra, tomato, brinjal, 17 Crop Science 17 chilly, cabbage, cauliflower, capsicum, radish, cucurbitaceous crops, kinnow, mango and guava. • A total of 27 Mobile Apps on integrated pest management (IPM) technologies hosted on Google play store (approx. 17000+ download). 08-Patented technologies submitted for commercialization to Agrinnovate India, New Delhi, India. 18 ICAR Institutes Profile 18 ICAR-Sugarcane Breeding Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-SBI Karumalai Chettypalayam, Veerakeralam, Coimbatore–641007, Tamil Nadu ii. Name of the Director: Dr.G.Hemaprabha iii. Email address & phone: director.sbi@icar.gov.in Phone no.: 0422-2472621 2. Mandate and activities • Breeding of superior sugarcane varieties/ genotypes having high sugar productivity as well as sustainability and to assist State Sugarcane breeding programs • To conduct basic and strategic researches on crop improvement, production & protection aspects of sugarcane • Collection, maintenance, evaluation, documentation and conservation of sugarcane / Saccharum species genetic resources • Effecting technology transfer, consultancy and human resource development in the areas of sugarcane agricultural research 3.