 With modified Resnet model deployed on the cloud for the purpose building a smart disease prediction. Figure 3- Accuracy vs epoch of Resnet Model for test dataset and Loss vs epoch of Resnet Model for test dataset [6] This system comprises of two major components: 1. Creating the CNN model: The first step is to create a Machine Learning model. This work is carried out using a Convolutional Neural Network (or CNN) model. a. A comprehensive study of Deep neural networks models for plan disease identification b. Improvising the Resnet model for the dataset by deploying a “One cycle Learning Rate Policy” instead of traditional fixed learning rate c. The hyper parameters are further optimized for weight decaying and gradient clipping to suit to the training the plant disease identification. 2. Using the model to predict: The next step is to use the created model to identify the diseases in the leaves. This step would be carried out in real-time. The model is trained on a Nvidia GPU for faster processing purposes. This model is trained using Resnet architecture for feature extraction. The model is trained for 65,89,734 params. These Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report units, connected through cables to a local hub, could send the pictures to cloud server through 5G modem. e. Regulatory considerations Country specific regulatory norms may be followed while deploying the use case. [In India Cellular network is deployed across the country and same may be used for drone applications] 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) The Plant Disease Detection System is modelled to allow farmers to quickly and easily identify the diseases the plants might be suffering from. The fundamental structure of this module is illustrated in the Figure 3. This work employs the Mohanty [5] dataset of Epidemiology lab, EPFL, Geneva for training and validating the plant disease identification. With modified Resnet model deployed on the cloud for the purpose building a smart disease prediction. Accuracy vs. No. of epochs Loss vs. No. of epochs vt ° 35 —<— Taining —< Validation 3.0 i=] o 25 [=] a 20 accuracy loss 15 c=) S 10 i=) i] 05 00 oo 05 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 oo oS 10 15 20 #25 30 35 40 epoch epoch [=] ° Figure 3- Accuracy vs epoch of Resnet Model for test dataset and Loss vs epoch of Resnet Model for test dataset [6] This system comprises of two major components: 1. Creating the CNN model: The first step is to create a Machine Learning model. This work is carried out using a Convolutional Neural Network (or CNN) model. a. Acomprehensive study of Deep neural networks models for plan disease identification b. Improvising the Resnet model for the dataset by deploying a “One cycle Learning Rate Policy” instead of traditional fixed learning rate c. The hyper parameters are further optimized for weight decaying and gradient clipping to suit to the training the plant disease identification. 2.