pasujanapp 78 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps E-Pashupalan • Mobile App developed by Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Hisar, Haryana in 2014. • Features include offline information about dairy farming, sheep & goat farming, Pig farming, cow and buffalo breeds, housing management, nutrition management, reproductive management, artificial insemination, signs of heat etc., disease information, prevention and control of different diseases, main clinical signs and symptoms of different diseases of animals etc., vaccination and clean milk production. • App supports Hindi language. • 50 users downloaded the App, Star rating 3/5. • App available on University website and Google play store. http://www.luvas.edu.in/ e-pashu-palan.zip 79 Veterinary Infoequine • App developed by ICAR-National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar, Haryana in 2017. • Features include offline knowledge in various aspects of equines with regard to breeds, management, nutrition, diseases, artificial insemination, pregnancy diagnosis, etc. • Information about diagnostic services, artificial insemination services, provision of semen for production of best quality of mules, horses and donkeys and technologies developed by the centre. • App supports English and Hindi languages. • 100 users downloaded the App, Star rating 4.7/5. • App available on NRCE website. https://play.google.com/store/ apps/details?id=info.ncre 80 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps LDF-Livestock Disease Forewarning • App developed by ICAR- National Institute of Veterinary Epidemiology and Disease Informatics (NIVEDI), Bengaluru, Karnataka in 2017. • Features include offline details of clinical samples to be collected in case of outbreaks of the listed diseases for laboratory confirmation. • Farmers are provided facility for immediate preventive measures in case of positive prediction/ disease confirmation. • App supports English language. • 50 users downloaded the App, Star rating 3/5. • App available on NIVEDI website. http://www.nivedi.res.in/ 81 Veterinary Hoof Care • App developed by Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Wayanand, Kerala in 2017. • Features include farmers to determine and maintain the hoof to be trimmed for healthy production. • Farmers can estimate productivity enhancement and cow comfort. • App supports English language. • 50 users downloaded the App, Star rating 3/5. • App available on University website and Google play store. www.kvasuleap.in https://play.google.com/store/ a p p s / d e t a i l s ? i d = c o m . wHoofCare_3852983 82 Krishi Gyan – Mobile Apps Cattle Dentition • App developed by Kerala Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Wayanand, Kerala in 2017. • Features include information to assess the age of cow, goat and dogs to support the farmers while purchasing the animals. • Farmers can facilitate the determination of age of the animals through anatomy of dentition. • This is an educational App which provides detail about cattle age and dentition.