 (iii) In cases where PD/PC is also a contributing breeder of the proposed variety, PD/PC will not be associated in discussion and in decision-making concerning the specific variety. c. Norms for Variety Identification The identification shall be on the basis of the following norms. 1. Significant superiority in yield/ in produce of economic importance over the best performing check (including qualifying checks) along with the acceptable levels of other features. OR Yield/ produce of economic importance comparable to the best performing check and combining specific favourable attributes such as tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses relevant to the region/ agro-ecology along with other acceptable features — quality characters, suitability for specific cropping system of the region, etc. OR Yield marginally lower to the best performing check but is outstanding in one or more crucial traits such as specific product quality—nutritional superiority, industrial processing property, export quality etc.—which will result in higher cash returns per unit area to cultivator/country. 2. The candidate entry should be uniform for important characters, like plant height and maturity, and particularly in respect with the distinguishing morphological characters in the region recommended for. 3. In case, the candidate variety qualified on the above characteristics is not distinct enough from the already released varieties on the basis of any of the morphological, or other diagnostic characteristics for which data are available, it should be made identifiable on the basis of the biochemical/molecular markers before the final release. 4. The candidate variety must be stable for key trait(s) (such as resistance to a specific disease/insect pest), for which it has been identified for the particular region. 5. The Committee may identify/reject/postpone decision/recommend retesting for one more year to generate additional information/reconfirmation of the results based on the data presented. 6. The Committee shall state in brief the specific reasons for identification/retesting/rejection of the proposed candidate variety. d. Relaxation in Minimum Years of Testing for Identification One year relaxation in respect of the period of testing under the coordinated system can be considered by the Variety Identification Committee under the following situations. (i) A genotype representing a recognized/recognizable major breakthrough in the yield potential/in produce of main economic importance. (ii) A genotype capable of minimizing heavy yield losses by containing major epidemic of any disease or insect-pest against which the existing varieties are found vulnerable. (iii) A genotype capable of providing safety against a widely occurring disease/insect-pest of major importance and causing economic losses on a large scale, and for which resistance is not available in the already released varieties.