 General view of the orchard Fig. 3. Stratified diagram of the studied site chemical fertilizers and FYM. The orchard is completely rainfed. There is no source of water for irrigation. The rainfall is inadequate and highly variable in distribution. The apple trees therefore often experience moisture stress. The lay-out plan for the study area was developed with the help of project staff. The contour lines were drawn, and each tree was marked to prepare the actual location of the trees. The line transect method was used to calculate and mark the trees, and with the help of `A' frame the actual contour lines were also developed. It was found that the farmer designed the layout using the traditional knowledge and in the high slope he prepared the terraces on the contour line and with the lowering of the slope he discontinued the preparation of slopes. The effect of slope and the preparation of the terraces were studied. It was also noted that the farmer did not undertake the gap filling in the lay-out design. The triangular pattern of the plantation was done to accommodate the maximum number of plants. Soil properties Soil samples were collected at eight locations, i.e. six in the orchard up to a depth of 60 cm at 15 cm depth increment and two in non- orchard area at two depths at 30 cm intervals. The soil samples for each depth were thoroughly mixed and a composite sample was prepared. The composite soil samples were analysed in duplicate for texture (International Pipette method), organic carbon (Dichromate Oxidation method of Walkley and Black), available N (Alkaline permanganate method), Olsen's P, exchangeable K (Ammonium acetate method), pH (1:2.5 soil:water suspension) and particle density (Pychnometer method). Soil- moisture retention of disturbed soil samples (soil passed through 2 mm sieve) was determined at saturation, -30 and -1,500 kPa water potential, using Pressure Plate apparatus. Bulk density was determined using 3 cm long and 5.6 cm diameter metal cores, by taking soil core from the middle portion of each soil layer. These samples were analysed in the soil testing laboratory of the Department of Soils, College of Agriculture, CSK HPKV, Palampur. The soil was acidic in nature, irrespective of the orchard and non-orchard area (Table 1). In the orchard area, organic carbon was in the medium range in the top 45 cm depth but was low in 45-60 cm depth. In the non-orchard area, the organic carbon was also low. The nutrient status was medium for available N, high for Olsen's P in both the areas, and medium (0-15 cm depth) to low (15- 60 cm depth) for exchangeable K. This clearly showed that with the plantation of the orchard and inputs there was improvement in the status of soil and harnessing of nitrogen by the plants.  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT Table 1. Soil chemical properties of the studied area Soil depth (cm) pH Organic C (g/kg) N Available nutrients P K Non-orchard area 0-30 5.9 4.8 502.4 30.3 156.8 30-60 5.9 4.2 345.7 22.4 134.