 Fish consumption has shown a continuous increasing trend assuming greater importance in the context of 'Health Foods'. It is expected that the fish requirement by 2025 would be of the order of 16 million tonnes, of which at least 12 million tonnes would need to come from the inland sector and aquaculture is expected to provide over 1 O million tonnes. The domestic market for fish and fishery products is also growing rapidly and necessary models and quality control protocols in this regard need to be developed. In 2006, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, brought out the First Edition of 'Handbook of Fisheries and Aquaculture'. The present revised edition comprises 42 updated and six new chapters, viz. Fish physiology; Aquaculture engineering, Fisheries development in India; Fisheries cooperatives; Demand and supply of fish; and Climate change - impact and mitigation. The Handbook would be of great value to students, researchers, planners, farmers, young entrepreneurs and all stakeholders in fisheries and aquaculture. HANDBOOK OF FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 73 January 2025 Scalable climate resilient technologies in diverse rainfed agro-ecologies G. Pratibha*, P. S. Prabhamani and V. K. Singh ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Climate change poses significant challenges for developing nations like India, particularly in rainfed agriculture, which is highly sensitive to climatic variables such as rainfall and temperature. Climate vulnerability include erratic rainfall, extreme weather events, heat stress and cold stress, all of which affects crop yields, food security, and rural livelihoods. India’s smallholder farmers, who comprise 86% of the agricultural sector, are especially vulnerable to climate-induced stresses such as floods, droughts, heatwaves, cold waves and dry spells. Projections indicate a potential decrease in crop productivity over period leading to economic losses. Agriculture also contributes to global greenhouse gas emissions. This highlights the prerequisite of climate-resilient agricultural (CRA) practices that enhance the rainfed agro-ecosystem ability to adapt to climate challenges while minimizing environmental impact. CRA practices which includes soil moisture conservation, tank silt application, climate stress cropping systems and varieties, integrated farming systems and livestock interventions focus on improving productivity, ensuring food security, and increasing the resilience of rural communities. In addition to adaptation to climate vulnerabilities, these practices also have mitigation co-benefits and provide ecosystem services. Keywords: Adaptation, Climate resilient agriculture, Climate vulnerability, Mitigation C LIMATE change is a major global challenge, particularly for developing countries like India. It significantly affects agriculture, impacting crop yields and human health.