 Precision irrigation The design of an efficient irrigation system should consider climatic as well edaphic factors to achieve a successful and high-quality harvest. The process of grape maturation is affected by the photo-synthesis that produces the sugars that are stored in the berries. In grapes, the balance among sugar, acid, pH and potassium is fundamental in determining the quality of the produced wine. This balance depends to a large extent on the frequency of the irrigation of the cultivated fields. In grapes, automated monitoring and advisory system for intelligent viticulture programme, classification of biotic and abiotic stresses on grape berries using transfer learning has been initiated. The transfer learning was used to test the performance of six major deep learning image classification architectures with variations in training conditions and hyper parameters for 8 stress conditions on grape berries. Two prototypes have been developed for automated vineyard monitoring at ICAR-NRC Grapes, Pune. These are Offline Device consisting of Arduino microcontroller, 5 MP camera module and data logger with SD card storage, and Cloud-Based Camera Network: ESP32-cam microcontroller with built-in camera and cloud connectivity. The device uploads images directly to the cloud using 4G Wi-Fi hotspot. These prototypes offer automated triggers for capturing data based on pre-defined time-lapse ideal for remote monitoring and data access. The IoT technology offers a sustainable solution for efficient water management in banana farming. Moisture sensors measure soil moisture and transmits real-time data through internet to cloud and processed through AI for precise irrigation scheduling. The preliminary data of the work initiated at ICAR-NRC for Banana, Trichy shows that < 25% of water is saved over and above the drip irrigation method without compromising the yield and quality of the fruit. In a trial on IoT based fertigation scheduling for improving water productivity and nutritional density in Nagpur mandarin at ICAR-CCRI, Nagpur, it was found that IoT based fertilizer scheduling increased water saving by 10-15% and fruit yield was increased from 150 to 171 kg/plant. The root density and quality of the fruit was also improved by this system. The studies conducted at ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi showed that wireless sensor-based drip irrigation and nitrogen scheduling significantly improve crop yield and water-use efficiency in tomato and capsicum cultivation, highlighting the importance of appropriate application of N and irrigation management. The sensor-based irrigation and fertigation system also resulted in better quality traits, i.e. phenolics, acidity, and flavonoids contents. This study indicates that automation of drip irrigation and fertigation scheduling may be helpful in enhancing input-use efficiency in tomato and capsicum.