 Glanders: Glanders a fatal infectious notifiable zoonotic disease of equines caused by Burkholderia mallei, was confirmed in 323 samples out of 25,997 sera tested from 9 states during the reported period. Emergence of glanders outbreaks in newer regions is a cause of concern. Whole genome sequencing of two LFA kit for diagnosis of equine piroplamosis Latent equine herpesvirus 1 infection Latency is one phenomenon in herpesviruses, which leads to lifelong persistence of virus infection in animals. Once infected, 50-70% horses remain latently infected and reactivation of virus latency may lead to clinical infection. A real-time RT-PCR targeting latency associated transcripts (LATs) and RT-PCR for detection of expression of late structural protein (gB) were developed to detect EHV1 latent infection. The results proved that majority of equines (>52%) in India were latently infected with EHV1 virus. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 69 Pigs Simultaneous detection of important viral diseases: A multiplex PCR for simultaneous detection of porcine parvo virus (PPV), porcine circo virus type 2 (PCV2) and classical swine fever virus (CSFV) was developed. Pig serum samples and tissue, blood and faecal samples were screened for the presence of CSFV, PCV2, and PPV. Out of 216 serum samples screened, 55 were positive for CSFV antibodies, 22 for PCV and 11 for PPV. Out of 466 samples (blood/tissue/fecal samples) analyzed by PCR, 18, 12 and 7 samples were confirmed to be positive for CSFV, PCV2 and PPV, respectively. Poultry Diagnostics and prophylaxis: The major causes of mortality among the DPR flocks were heat stress, colibacillosis, chronic respiratory disease (CRD), coccidiosis, laryngotracheitis and gout. The avian leukosis virus (ALV) incidence among the tested pureline breeders was 5.3%. Maternal antibody titer for infectious bursal disease (IBD) intermediate vaccine was 125 that was noticed on 12th to 13th day of age, when vaccination is to be done. The maternal antibody titer against New Castle (ND) virus in chicks was 8.3 on day 1, which decreased to 3.5, 1.8 and 0 at 14th, 21st and 31st day of age. The infectious bronchitis virus (IBV) variants such as IBV-QX and IBV nephro- pathogenic were prevalent in major poultry producing areas of India. The validated concanavalin A based sandwich ELISA showed high rate of correlation with the results of commercially available indirect ELISA. Alternate antibiotic growth promoter containing herbal formulation improved FCR, decreased mortality and improved gut health in Krishibro chicks. Foot and Mouth disease Serotype - confirmed 150 FMD incidences were recorded during the reported period in the country. Maximum incidences were recorded from the North eastern region, which was not covered under FMD- CP. In the southern peninsula, maximum incidences were recorded in Karnataka. Andhra Pradesh, Telenganam, Tamil Nadu, Punjab and Maharashtra had no incidence of FMD during the period.