0% more training programmes for technical and skilled support staff, respectively during 2021-22. ICAR published hundred new Training Modules for all four categories of employees, i.e. Scientific, Technical, Administrative and SSS, designed, developed and organized from 2015-2020 based on TNA have been documented and published. ICAR also nominated 734 employees of various categories in training and capacity building programmes organized by various ICAR/non ICAR- Institutes, out of which 492 employees attended the training programmes. Publications and Social Media: ICAR-DKMA encourages ICT-driven technology and create information dissemination systems to serve as agricultural knowledge repository.The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences (IJAgS) and Indian Journal of Animal Sciences (IJAnS) are multi-disciplinary journals, with the impact factor and H index 0.37 and 29 and 0.31 and 23, respectively. These journals had wide readership and subscription. A total of 3,500 submissions in IJAgS and 1,928 in IJAnS were received during 2022. Popular periodicals like Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture were brought out for outreach to the masses with special issues on Farmer FIRST Success Stories, Reimagining Rainfed Agro-ecosystems and International Year of Millets and Plantation Crops. Digital Object Identifier (DOI) allotment to the articles for both the research journals was introduced which will benefit the authors as well as journal immensely. To check the plagiarism, software iThenticate was subscribed. For facilitating publication of the books e-book platform was developed. During the year, ten new titles were published under the books, Stingless Overview icar annual report 2022-23 16 Bees – An Unexplored Pollinator in India; Textbook of Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture; Textbook on Forages; Ravine Land Management : Principles, Practices and Strategies; Textbook of Pet Animal Management; Textbook of Fundamentals of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Extension; Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of soils; Textbook of Principles and Practices of Weed Management; Textbook of Environmental Agrometeorology; Sugarcane Crop Management Practices in India. The Hindi journals Kheti (monthly) and Phalphul (bimonthly) are published to disseminate the latest technologies. These journals are circulated offline and online. During the year, six special issues of Kheti, viz., ‘success stories of farmers’, ‘livestock’, ‘climate change and agriculture’, ‘75th year of publication of ‘Kheti’, ‘Nutrition’and ‘Millets’ were published. The two special issues of ‘Phalphul, on Fruits, and vegetables were also published. To add the publication of the Hindi journals, e-patrika portal has been developed. The gross revenue of approximately Rs 62.0 lakhs was realized from sale of publications during the period. To disseminate information in real-time, the ICAR Website is updated on a regular basis.