 To increase trust levels in an attempt to raise quality and quantity and to overcome barriers to entry at the intermediary stage (Nuthalapati et al., 2020), governments introduced government-supported marketing channels to provide farmers with outlets that are associated with higher credibility (Nuthalapati et al., 2020). However, whether those interventions effectively improved smallholders’ access to markets is often unclear. Therefore, this study asks whether choosing government-supported marketing channels leads to a better price for smallholders than other channels and what determinants influence farmers to select those channels. To the best of our knowledge, no study has evaluated the effect of government-supported marketing channels on the market prices smallholders receive and the determinants for them to select these channels. It also is unknown whether such institutions’ success depends on whether the crop is an export cash crop or a highly perishable crop like fruits and vegetables. Understanding marketing outlets for high-value crops will inform smallholders, extension agents (government and private), and policymakers in choosing marketing outlets that give smallholders higher product prices, lower transaction costs, increased transparency, and fewer in­ termediaries, thus ensuring higher incomes for smallholders, increased farm viability, improved livelihood, and food security. This paper fills this lacuna in the literature by assessing the impacts of marketing outlets on market prices, using four high-value fruit and vegetable crops (okra, baby corn, onions, and pomegranate) from India.1 The agricultural market in India provides a prime example to investigate the effects of government-supported marketing channels and to contribute to understanding those dynamics more generally. Like many other developing and emerging economies, India underwent economic liberalization and embraced globalization in the early 1990s, leading to agricultural reforms, including credit institutions, trade, technology access, and increased involvement by the corporate sector (Gulati, 2022). Small-scale fruit and vege­ table farmers received less than 20 percent of the price consumers paid for fruit and vegetables (Aneja and Bhalachandran, 2009), highlighting that the potential benefits for smallholders were not reached through private marketing networks. The agricultural sector transformed when the government introduced organized food processing and retailing through Rural Business and Service Hubs in the first decade of the 21st century (Gulati, 2009). Fierce competition among companies in those hubs prompted them to offer farmers better prices, market access, and value chain services. These public wholesale markets, known as mandis, are regulated by Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) at both the state and sub-market yard levels (GoI, 2015), totaling 2477 markets and 4843 sub-market yards (Nuthalapati et al., 2020).