 A list of key areas, where digital technologies are being used or can be used in citriculture is discussed below. GIS mapping y Farm mapping and land-use planning. y Spatial analysis for zoning, crop management, and monitoring disease or pest outbreaks. y DSS for yield prediction and resource allocation. Precision farming and resource management y IoT-enabled sensors for soil health monitoring (moisture, nutrients, pH). y AI, machine and smart apps learning for optimizing resource use and allocation (water, fertilizers, pesticides). y Remote sensing via drones or satellites to assess plant health. y Automated and smart irrigation systems (IoT-based drip and sprinkler systems). y Digital tools for real-time monitoring and decision- making on fertilization schedules. y Integrated systems and data-driven recommendations on irrigation and nutrient management. y Digital platforms for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions. Weather forecasting y Real-time weather data and predictive analytics for planning agricultural activities. y Climate forecasting tools to mitigate risks from extreme weather situations. Insect-pest, and disease diagnostics and management y Drones and remote sensing technologies for crop surveillance. y AI and machine learning for early detection of disease and pest infestations. y AI-driven disease diagnosis based on image recognition of plant symptoms. y IoT sensors for detecting environmental conditions conducive to disease outbreaks. Farm automation y Automated machinery guided by GPS for precision planting and harvesting. y Robotic systems for weeding, pruning, and fruit- picking. Post-harvest management and processing y Automated sorting and grading systems using computer vision. y IoT-based cold chain monitoring (temperature, humidity and gaseous composition sensors). y AI for optimizing post-harvest storage conditions. y IoT-driven processing plants for monitoring and controlling operational parameters. y Automated processing systems to improve quality and reduce losses. Supply chain management, traceability and food safety y GPS tacking of shipments for real-time logistics management. y IoT devices, RFID and shipments for real-time inventory, produce quality and product flow monitoring throughout the supply chain. Indian Horticulture 86 y Blockchain for transparent supply chain and traceability from farm to consumer. y Digital certificates for food safety and quality compliance. Technology dissemination and market information y Mobile apps offering farmer advisory services on best practices, crop care, and pest control. y Digital platforms offering e-learning modules and tutorials for farmers. y Virtual reality modules for training farmers in best practices and precision techniques. y Virtual platforms for knowledge sharing, training, and consultancy. Market information, credit linkage and e-Commerce y Mobile apps providing real-time market prices, demand trends, and buyer connections.