 The five-decade long research under AICRP-Long Term Fertilizer Experiments (LTFE) proved micro and secondary nutrients deficiency as the yield limiting factor even under recommended doses of NPK. The e-atlas delineating soil micro and secondary nutrient deficient zones of the country prepared under AICRP on MSNP based on the analysis of 2,42,827 surface soil samples from 600 districts revealed deficiency of available Zinc and Boron in 36.5 and 23.4% soil samples, respectively (Fig. 7). In order to maintain soil fertility besides improving soil physical and biological health, Integrated Nutrient Management packages Fig. 7. Zinc and boron deficiency map of India Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 267 for more than 60 major cropping systems have also been documented for use by the farming community. As an attractive alternate source of plant nutrition, the improved and efficient strains of bio-fertilizers and liquid biofertilizer formulations with longer shelf life have been developed, and potassium and zinc solubilising bacteria have been identified. The technology to prepare phospho-compost, vermi-compost, bio-enriched compost, municipal solid waste compost etc. from various organic wastes was developed and standardised. Recently, a portable soil test kit/mini lab (Mridaparikshak) has been developed by Indian Institute of Soil Science (IISS), Bhopal to facilitate analysis of 12 soil parameters included in the soil health cards at farmer’s door step (Fig. 8). The soil samples analysed using Mridaparikshak contributed for 14% of the 28.8 million soil health cards issued in the country. The pine oleoresin coated slow-release urea and nano formulations, 4G nano- based nutritional agri-inputs (phosphorus, magnesium, zinc, and iron), nano ZnO and nano rock phosphate for higher nutrient use efficiency were also developed. Fig. 8. Mridaprikshak for soil testing The work on enhancing the efficiency of nitrogenous fertilizers was initiated in 1970s including nitrification inhibitors and slow-release nitrogenous fertilisers, which subsequently led to the development of neem-coated urea (Chhonkar et al. 2015). In addition to enhancing nitrogen use efficiency, neem-coated urea also mitigates emission of nitrous oxide, a greenhouse gas with 310 times global warming potential than carbon dioxide (Pathak 2016). Currently, 100% of urea fertilizer used in the country is neem- coated. Indian Agriculture after Independence 268 The early work on the role of earthworms on soil quality was initiated in 1951 and on soil arthropods in 60s (Singh and Mukherjee, 1971). The solubilization of insoluble plant unavailable P with soil microbes was shown in 1957 (Sen and Paul 1957). The research on rhizobium and legume root nodules and blue green algae (BGA) and their role in rice cultivation was the centre stage of research in soil microbiology in the 20th century.