in ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Cover II Indian Horticulture 2 Editorial Horticulture Sector Progresses by Leaps and Bounds in Food and Nutritional Security I N India’s agricultural landscape, the horticulture sector stands out as a beacon of promise and potential with its rich diversity of fruits, vegetables, flowers, and spices, and holds the key to substantial economic growth and rural development. The sector not only provides livelihoods to millions of farmers but also plays a crucial role in ensuring food security and nutritional well-being. In an era of climate change and environmental degradation, the resilience of horticultural crops becomes increasingly significant. Diversification towards resilient crops and sustainable practices not only mitigates risks but also enhances the sector’s adaptability to changing climatic conditions. Investment in research and development to breed climate-resilient varieties and promote agroecological approaches is therefore imperative. Promoting organic and niche horticulture products presents exciting opportunities for Indian farmers to capture premium markets both domestically and internationally. With growing consumer awareness and demand for healthy and sustainably produced food, India’s horticulture sector can position itself as a global leader in organic and exotic produce. India’s agricultural landscape has always been rich and diverse, reflecting the country’s varied climates, soils, and cultural traditions. In recent years, there has been a growing interest in exploring new crops within the realm of Indian horticulture. This trend not only promises to diversify farmers’ income sources but also holds the potential to address emerging challenges such as climate change and shifting consumer preferences. One such example is the cultivation of exotic fruits and vegetables.