 (d) Personal/behavioural abilities/attributes. Emphasis in the assessmeni will be on the contributions and achieve- ments of the individual in relation to the requirements of the job and the duties assigned to the post for which he was recruited. The following factors will be taken into consideration : (a) The material furnished in the Five-Yearly Assessment pro forma; (b) Research Project Files maintained by the Scientists; (c) Bio-data and career information (various posts held etc.); (d) Confidential Character Rolls for the past five years; and (e) Personal discussion, if so desired by the scientists concerned. The details of the criteria and methods are given in Appendix IV. 5. POSTINGS, TRANSFERS, TRAINING AND DEPUTATION POSTINGS 1. Heads of Divisions in the Institutes The posts of Heads of Divisions in the institutes shall be filled by rotation from amongst the Professors in the Divisions or other senior scientists in the scale of pay of Rs 1500-2000 or Rs 1800-2000. The guidelines are given below : 1. If an S-3 Scientist or above is available in any particular discipline at an Institute, only such scientists should become Heads of Divisions. However, if an S-3 Scientist in a particular discipline is not available in the Institute, the post would be filled up by transfer of a suitable scientist from these grades working in other Institutes. However, if no scientist in the particular discipline is available either in the Institute where the post exists or in other Institutes, the position would be filled up from amongst S-2 scientists working in that Institute. The filling up of the vacancy by trans- fer would be made only in public interest and kept to the minimum on consideration of merits alone. In case any S-2 Scientist is on the verge of promotion and is likely to be promoted to the higher position in about next six months or so, the vacancy would not be filled up from outside the Institute and the concerned scientist would be made the Head of Division, subject to his performance being adjudged as excellent. The appointment of an S-3 will be subject to his record being found at least very good. [No. 8-21/80-Per. IV dated 16-6-84.] 2. The positions of Heads of Divisions will normally be filled in for a period of three years from amongst the eligible scientists. 3. If in any Division/Department no scientist is considered for the position of the Head of that Division/Department a suitable scientist from any other Institute may be transferred and posted as Head of that Division/ Department by the ICAR in consultation with the Directors concerned. When under such circumstances a Head of Division is transferred from one Institute to another in the same position, his appointment as Head of Division in the new Institute will be treated as a fresh tenure. 4.