 The celebration of the 150th birth anniversary of Gandhiji is the occasion to reaffirm our faith in this development approach and apply to address the challenges in the years to come. The volume on hands is an example of the achievements of ICAR and its approach in addressing the developments like climate resilience, conservation of resources, and inclusiveness. The publication has spelled out the contributions of the Council in improving agricultural productivity, ensuring food, nutritional and livelihood security, protecting the environment, and promoting small agri-enterprises. These contributions also contribute to the development objective of the government of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. I compliment the Council for bringing out this publication to show its contributions to realize the vision of Gandhiji. I am sure the readers shall find the publication useful and take the task forward for the betterment of the society. Kailash Choudhary Minister of State, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Goverment of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi  vii foreword The country is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of the Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi. He led freedom struggle against British empire, which transformed him into a global leader of masses, disadvantageous and poor people. He has shown the way of social, economic and political transformation with small steps to serve the rural poor. Non-violence, truthfulness, democratic institutions, village industry and people-centric approach were his main principles and teachings for the people. He had led several movements to pursue the cause of Indian farmers, including famous protest of Champaran in 1917, Dandi March in 1930 and Quit India Movement in 1942. These movements motivated the farmers and rural workers to join the freedom struggle. Mahatma Gandhi firmly believed that prosperity of agriculture and farmers should pave the way for economic prosperity of the country. This belief has been reaffirmed in the agricultural development process followed in India and other developing countries. Evidences are now available indicating that agricultural growth has significant impacts on reduction of poverty and promotion of social and economic equity. The pandemic of COVID-19 has further established that agriculture is a strong pillar to absorb economic shocks and build resilience to economic growth. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been at the forefront to propel agricultural development through development and dissemination of technology, building human capital and establishing the rural centres to serve the farmers. The Council has developed partnerships with the organizations serving farmers and rural people. One of the important components of ICAR strategy is increasing agricultural productivity in harmony with nature. The needs of unprivileged farmers, marginal production environments, and rural youth have been accorded high priority in research programs of the Council.