 He stated that this fund is to be used as complementary funding through proposals submitted by State Government / State Agriculture Universities for the purpose, including any time- bound research or proposals received from SAUs on strategic research. It was suggested that States and SAUs (through State) might effectively avail of funds under RKVY by formulating appropriate proposals. Action: All VCs 9 Agenda 15: Possible Collaboration between AUs and ICAR Institutes ADG (EQR) presented the Agenda. After a detailed discussion it was recommended that: (i) After the PG students have fulfilled the minimum residential requirements for a degree course in an AU, the research work for thesis may be permitted to be carried out at an ICAR Institute also as appropriate and if so required. This arrangement may be decided by the AU and concerned ICAR Institute on case to case basis on mutually agreed terms. The student will be entitled to draw the fellowship which he is holding during this period, (ii) those scientists of ICAR Institutes who pursue Ph.D. degree course in an AU, may complete only the course work and the minimum residential requirement in the AU and may come back to the respective ICAR Institute or any other ICAR institute after due approval for research work towards partial fulfillment of the PG degree course. In such cases, the fellowship / assistantship will ceased to be extended to the candidate once the candidate joins back on duty in the ICAR Institute, (iii) the concept of extended faculty, nationally and globally, may be promoted; the scientists of the ICAR Institutes may be taken as guide / co-guide for PG thesis work, and the foreign experts who are visiting India for international meetings / seminars / conferences / symposia etc. may be beforehand requested for the purpose so that with very judicious expenditure, the cause may be served, (iv) the exchange of faculty on the basis of mutual benefit between the AUs may be facilitated and (v) the Academic Councils of the AUs may include the Director of the ICAR Institute based in the region as member. Action: All VCs/ Directors of ICAR Institutes Agenda 16.1: Moving or Visiting faculties of SAUs The JAU, Junagadh presented the Agenda. It was explained that non availability of adequate proficient faculty is a major constraint for sustainable growth of quality education in AUs. It was proposed that some percentage of faculties of each SAUs should be treated as moving or visiting faculties that will visit other SAUs to know and gain the experience shared by the scientists of other University. It was pointed out that faculty exchange and Guest / Adjunct Faculty is already an approved new budget line under the ICAR scheme on “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” in XI Plan. Action: All VCs Agenda 16.2: E-Governance and ERP for SAUs The JAU, Junagadh presented the Agenda.