 The finite land and water resources are vital for agricultural production for securing food for all kinds of life. However, competing demands of the various land uses have put more pressure on these precious natural resources that caused their depletion and deterioration. In India, 37% of total geographical area is degraded due to various natural and anthropogenic factors. Also, unplanned development and management of water resources have led to negative environmental consequences such as waterlogging and salinity in many canal command areas, decline in groundwater level and its quality, seawater intrusion in coastal areas, drying up of wetlands and low-flows in streams, etc. To address the twin challenges of degradation of land resources and declining productivity, development of efficient and eco-friendly resource management technologies is necessary to maintain the soil health, manage water efficiently and to achieve sustained crop productivity. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through its 15 institutes under Natural Resource Management (NRM) division is mandated for research on conservation and management of natural resources in different agro-ecologies of arid, semi-arid, coastal, hill and irrigated areas so as to sustain the production systems. With this backdrop, the important achievements include concept of targeted yield based fertilizer requirement to address the issue of excessive use of fertilizer in agriculture. In order to correct imbalance use of fertilizers, Mridaparikshak, a portable soil test kit/mini lab has been developed. It is capable of analysing all the 12 soil parameters included in the Soil Health Card Scheme of the Government. For better management of soils multiple thematic maps for red soils, acid soils, wastelands and degraded land were prepared at country level. The agro-ecological mapping of the country facilitated delineation of 20 Agro-ecological Regions (AERs) and 60 Agro-ecological sub-regions (AESRs) for efficient management and planning of natural resources. The bio-engineering measures, sand dune stabilization and shelterbelt technologies have been able to control erosion. The participatory watershed management for integrated management of land, water and vegetation resources were successfully demonstrated in different agro-ecological regions. In order to achieve food and nutritional security at household level, 64 prototype Integrated Farming System (IFS) models with potential to enhance the income by 3 to 5 times over the existing systems/ Indian Agriculture after Independence 260 practices of farmers in a period of 3 to 4 years have been developed. For promoting organic farming in niche areas, 68 organic packages have been developed and integrated in central sector schemes of Paramparaghata Krishi Vikas Yojna (PKVY) and Mission on Organic Value Chain Development (MOVCD) for NEH Region.