 Focus on vegetable intensive production: Regarding the interventions made by various research and developmental institutions like Defence Institute of High Altitude Research (DIHAR), there has been a tremendous improvement in the diversity, quantity and quality of cultivated crops (especially vegetables). It has been demonstrated (on field conditions) that around 68 different kinds of vegetables (both European and Asiatic type) can be successfully grown in Ladakh. Presently, local farmers in Ladakh are successfully growing newly introduced crops like kale, parsely, celery, summer squash, okra, and various cucurbits also. The increase in crop diversity has helped them to increase their income and improve their nutritional uptake. At present 51% of Army’s (a major market for local produce) total fresh vegetables requirement (7000 MT) is fulfilled by the local farmers. At present local farmer’s cooperative is supplying 28 different kinds of State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 226 vegetables to army. It not only provides income to the local farmers but also saves a large chunk of expenditure incurred on transportation. iii. Green house cultivation: In Ladakh region the greenhouse technology is of immense use to the farming community. This technology helps farmers grow fresh vegetables during winter months also when temperature dips down below freezing level. As per the diversified farming community of Ladakh, DIHAR has designed various types of passive solar greenhouses to cater to the needs of local farmers as per their resource availability e.g. polycarbonate and FRP greenhouses for Resource Rich Farmer (RRF), Polytrench and trench greenhouses for Resource Poor Farmers (RPF). iv. Vegetable seed production: For seed production of certain vegetables crops climatic conditions of Ladakh are suitable. The region enjoys the availability of long photoperiod, high light intensity, low rainfall and humidity and low disease and pest incidence. All the fields where wheat and barley are growing in Ladakh are suitable for seed production of vegetables. v. Focus on manures & bio-fertilizers and fertigation etc. to increase efficiency of fertilizers: Productivity enhancement depends on the soil health and nutrient status, soil in Ladakh region are not so fertile and therefore use of balanced fertilizers is required to obtain the potential yield of crops. vi. Diversification of Ladakh’s agricultural base, so as to minimise the risk of a single crop failure. Promotion of Sea-buckthorn, the thorny shrub with diverse uses ranging from medicinal to cosmetic, has the potential to change the economy of India’s Himalayan desert region of Ladakh, where it is sometimes referred to as gold but also destroyed as a weed. vii. Introduction and domestication of high yielding crop varieties. viii. Motivating and supporting farmers to adopt the appropriate technologies so as to increase production. ix. Promoting the horticultural sector in the region. x.