 Specialized training programme for caretakers/ guest house: First time, a specialized training programme on Hospitality Management in collaboration with Institute of Hotel Management, Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition (IHMCT&AN), Hyderabad was organized by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad for Caretakers/ Incharges of guest house. In the said training programme, 29 Caretakers/ Incharges of guest house of various ICAR- Institutes participated, out of which, 96% attended first time, such training programme after joining ICAR service. New training programme for vigilance officers: Most of the Vigilance Officers of ICAR-Institutes are scientists. Keeping this in view, two-day Training Workshop for Vigilance Officers of ICAR was organized by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad. Vigilance Officers (35) of 35 Institutes participated. None of them had such type of training in the past. Development and launching of training management information system (TMIS): As per ICAR HRM Policy, Training Management Information System (TMIS) for ICAR employees was launched on 31 January 2019. It has been made mandatory for all ICAR-Institutes/Headquarters to submit the Annual training Plan (ATP) and applications for attending Training program in ICAR/Non-ICAR Institutes w.e.f. 1 April 2019. TMIS is hosted on https://hrm.icar.gov.in. In order to effectively coordinate, implement, monitor and evaluate trainings and to get feedback of human resource related activities, the framework of TMIS for ICAR was developed by NAARM, Hyderabad, in consultation with IASRI, New Delhi, and HRM Unit of ICAR. It was designed, developed, tested and implemented by IASRI, New Delhi in consultation with HRM Unit, ICAR. This system facilitates (i) training needs assessment, (ii) training application process, (iii) training feedback process, and (iv) training evaluation process. Other Initiatives Annual training plan (ATP): It is essential for all the Institutes/HQs to develop Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on training need assessment (TNA) as per ICAR HRM Policy. The implementation of ATP was assessed at the end of the year and approriate feedbacks were given to all the ICAR-Institutes for better implementation in future. Organization of Training Programmes Scientific staff: During the reporting period, ICAR- Institutes organized 252 training programmes for scientific staff (1,098) for enhancing their competency in various fields. Management Development Programme: For effective and efficient implementation of training functions in the Institutes, a Management Development Programme on Effective Implementation of Training Functions by HRD Nodal Officers of ICAR was organized in which 23 officials participated.