 Land selection for the cultivation of isabgol is the first and foremost step to produce safe and good Isabgol field view Indian Horticulture 12 quality product. The land should be free from inherent contamination of any chemical pesticides and should be away from any potential source of contamination. The land should also have access to a clean and reliable source of irrigation water. Isabgol is most suitable to grow on well drained, light sandy to sandy loam soils. Soils with poor drainage are not conducive for good growth and successful cultivation of this crop. However, recently it has been successfully cultivated on clay loam, medium black, black cotton and heavy black soils. The crop can withstand a low level of soil salinity with a pH between 7.2-7.9. Table 1. List of Isabgol varieties released for commercial cultivation in India Name of the variety Main characteristics Centre where nucleus seed material is available Recommended geographical region for cultivation Any other Information Gujarat Isabgol- 1 Dark green leaf, moderate tillers and medium spike length (4.0-4.5 cm). Height about 50 cm, matures in 110- 115 days AICRP-MAP&B Center, Anand Agricultural University, Anand Gujarat, Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Released in 1976. It is a selection from introduced material Gujarat Isabgol-2 Medium broad and pale green leaf, medium long spike (3.8-4.6 cm), height 58-64 cm, matures in 110- 115 days. AICRP-MAP&B Center, Agricultural University, Anand Gujarat, Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Released in 1983 Haryana Isabgol-5 Maturity: 140-145 days Yield: 1000-1200 kg/ha Husk: 25-30% AICRP-MAP&B Center, CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar Gujarat, Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Released in 1989. It is a selection from GI 2 Jawahar Isabgol-4 Leaf: Narrow, dense lathery, dark green and hairy Ovary: Violet pink Seed: Boat shaped, hard, light pink Seed husk: Rosy white membrane like. Yield: 1300-1500 kg/ha AICRP on M&AP, College of Horticulture, Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Mandsaur, Madhya Pradesh Gujarat, Rajasthan and parts of Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra Released in 1996. It is a selection from germplasm Vallabh Isabgol-1 Plant: Erect and compact Leaf: Dark green leaves and moderately hairy; Inflorescence: Spike compact and long Seed: Boat shaped, hard, light pink Seed husk: Rosy white membrane like.