 However, the high cost and poor pregnancy rates are the limiting factors that have prevented the wider use of sexed semen. 5. Cattle Breeding Initiatives by Govt. of India 5.1. Pre-independence scenario During this period many committees having experts from agriculture and animal science were constituted by the Government of India for suggesting means and ways for bringing improvement in livestock sector. Imperial Institute of Animal Husbandry and Dairying was established at Bangalore in 1923, which was subsequently shifted to Karnal and renamed as National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI). Royal Commission on Agriculture (RCA) in 1926, 35 suggested that the type of cow most suitable for the farmers in the villages would be the one which would produce a strong calf (future bullock) and yield around 1000 to 1500 pounds (450 to 680 kg) of milk per lactation for each household. For cities, the aim was to produce a high yielding cow with a production level of 8000 pounds (3600 kg) of milk per annum but not the dual-purpose animal. RCA anticipated that commercial dairy farms were likely to resort to crossbreeding in future, and therefore, advised that government agricultural department should not take up experiments on crossbreeding and should aim to improve the milking qualities of indigenous breeds like Sahiwal, Red Sindhi and other breeds. Later, the two animal husbandry experts Norman Wright (1937) and Oliver (1938), who were invited by the Government, also opposed adoption of crossbreeding and strongly recommended improvement of indigenous stock by means of selective breeding, better feeding and improved management. In 1944, the Government invited another expert, Mr. Pepperall to advice dairy development in India. He recommended improvement of indigenous cattle breeds and indigenous buffalo to accelerate milk production. He emphasized that production of indigenous breeds of cattle should be improved rather than attempting large scale crossbreeding with imported bulls. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) on recommendations of Go-seva Sangh of 1949 laid down systematic steps for improvement of cattle in the country. 5.2. Post-Independence scenario 5.2.1. Key village scheme Planned development of livestock sub-sector in the country started with the launch of the first five-year Plan in 1951(1951-1956). A program called Key Village Scheme (KVS) was launched in 1952 with the basic objective of multiplication of superior germplasm from the established farms in selected areas in the breeding tracts of the breeds. The scheme emphasized on controlled breeding, better management, improved feeding, disease control and adoption of improved animal husbandry practices. Initially, the scheme covered 146 Key Village Blocks with more than 10,000 breedable cows and buffaloes during 1st Five Year Plan and subsequently expanded to 197 blocks and 64 urban AI centers in the second five year plan.