3GR with 200g sand in the inner whorls of coconut palm / palm. Application of 250g neem cake or marotti (Hydnocarpuswightina) cake mixed with equal volume of sand in the innermost 2-3 leaf axils during April-May before the onset of south-west monsoon. This treatment is to be done twice, ie., during September-October after the south- west monsoon too. Š Š Red palm weevil: - Coconut log traps with fermenting toddy or pineapple activated with yeast or molasses can be set in coconut gardens to trap the free floating population of Red palm weevil. Use insecticide to each trap to kill the weevil trapped. Use pheromone trap @ one per ha and to be placed outside coconut garden In case of severe attack applying 20 g Fipronil 0.3GR with 200g sand in the inner whorls of coconut palm / palm Š Š Whiteflies: - Spray neem oil @5ml per one litre along with soap @ 10gm per one litre on the lower surface of leaves to reduce the incidence of whiteflies in coconut. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 186 Disease Š Š Bud rot:- As a prophylactic measure Trichocake @2 cake per palm in the innermost axils of coconut is advantageous in managing bud rot disease before onset of monsoon and the same to be repeated after three months Spray 1 % Bordeaux mixture on spindle leaves and crown of bud rot disease affected palms as well as neighbouring palms, as a prophylactic measure. Palms that are sensitive to copper containing fungicides can be protected by mancozeb. Small, perforated sachets containing 2 g of mancozeb may be tied to the top of leaf axil. When it rains, a small quantity of the fungicide is released from the sachets to the leaf base, thus protecting the palm. Banana Š Š The rhizomes are to be smeared with cowdung solution & ash then they are dried in the sun for about 3 to 4 days before planting. Š Š Propping can be followed to reduce the damage due to high wind.It is mandatory to adopt propping to the plants which emerge bunches during monsoon period with collar rings Š Š Calcium Boron deficiency:-Apply lime @ 250g/plant to rectify the calcium deficiency in the soil. Boron deficiency is seen during dry weather. Hence, spray 5 grams of sampoorna in one litre of water. Application of AYAR @ 100 g per plant at second and fourth month after planting will address secondary and moicro nutriet deficiency. Š Š Adjust the time of planting so as to avoid high temperature and drought at the time of emergence of bunches (7-8 months after planting). Š Š Ensure good drainage and prevent water logging Pest Š Š Spodoptera:-There is a chance of attack of spodoptera in banana. Destroy the affected leaves along with the spodoptera. Š Š Rhizome Weevil:- There is a chance of Rhizome Weevil attack in banana.