 The treatment is repeated twice or thrice at weekly intervals. Some growers have been using this practice for the last six to eight years.In South Gujarat, farmers dissolve alum in water which has been used for washing intact fish (fish from which the scales have not been removed). This mixture is sprinkled over the diseased chilli crop. This practice has been in use for the last 10 - 11 years in this region (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Maganbhai (1993) 38 Control of grapes from insect attack A mixture of 1 litre stale butter milk, 50 g of neem juice and 1 litre of cow urine is made. This mixture is sprayed on the plant once in every 10 days to prevent development of pests and worms. The branches grow well and immunity in plants also increases (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (2001a) 39 Control of insect pest in ginger by planting Calotropis To save ginger (Zingiber officinalis) from insect pest ‘akado’ (Calotropis sp) is planted randomly in the field. The smell from this plant acts as repellent for the insect pest (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Pandoor (2001) 40 Control of pests in coconut and rice by use of neem kernel extract Neem fruits are soaked in water for two months and the pulp is separated from the kernels, mixed with water and sprayed on coconut palm and paddy fields to control pests (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 170 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 41 Mixed cropping prevents pest attack Mixed cropping of a few lines of onion with carrot prevents pest attack on both the crops. Similarly, sowing a few lines of maize with beans reduces pod borer attack on beans (Bangalore, Karnataka). Reddy (1998) 42 Plant protection by Embelia ribes Boil 200 g of Embelia ribes in two litres of water and filter it the next day. Dilute this solution with 100 litres of water. The diluted solution acts as a good spray against insects and viral disease. Anonymous (2000e) 43 Control of Heliothis in okra by spraying of extract of methi To control Heliothis one kg flour of methi (Trigonella foenum) is mixed with 2 litres of water and the mixture is kept aside for 24 hours. Having diluted with 40 litres of water the mixture is sprayed in 1 ha of land. Within 7 days 50% of Heliothis gets controlled. It is advisable to plough the field as early as possible after harvesting to destroy Heliothis pupae (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Vankar (2000) 44 Control of root desease in fruit trees by applying ash or lime Farmers remove the mud around fruit trees or vegetable plants and put fuelwood ash or lime (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 45 Control of white grub in coconut by applying jaggery The white grub bores into coconut trunks and reduces the quality of the nuts. Severely infected trees die. A concentrated solution of jaggery is prepared and poured in and around the grub holes to attract ants. Ants are the natural predators and so reduce populations of white grub.