S Rami Reddy Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701 2303 Seed bowl for sowing small and big seeded grains Generally two separate seed bowls are used by the farmers to sow small- and big- seeded grains. A dual-purpose seed bowl is in use for sowing both small and big sized grains. In this system, the bowl is prepared as usual and one additional cylindrical part having three holes that fits inside the bowl makes the original hole small for sowing of small seeded grain. If this cylindrical part temporarily fitted inside the bowl is removed, big seeded grains can be sown. The implement is made of iron and it is durable, costing about Rs 500 per piece. The implement is in use in Katwan area of Sakri tehsil in Dhule district of Maharashtra. Keywords: seed bowl, dual- purpose, small and big grains Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2432 Use of nagali- country plough in agricultural operations A country plough, locally called nagali, is being used in entire Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh. This is the only K.V.S. Rami Reddy Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara implement used by the farmers for primary tillage operations in kharif and rabi seasons. Weight of this implement is 50 kg and cost Rs 500. Keywords: implement, primary tillage operation Pradesh) 515 701 1853 Farm implements in crop husbandry Farmers of Dapora village in Madhya Pradesh are using the following equimpments since 45 years: plough, harrow, kudal (digger), spade, thick rope, tifan, dufan, leveller, sickles, trolley and bullock cart. All these implements are used for land development and other crop related activities. Sugarcane, cotton, wheat, banana, sorghum, soybean, maize and chickpea are the major crops grown. Keywords: plough, harrow, kudal, spade, thick rope, tifan, dufan, leveller, sickle, trolley, bullock cart Shri Thakur Randhir Singh Bais Shahpur, Burhanpur, East Nimar (Madhya Pradesh) 2433 Use of karka (small axe) to cut small plants A majority of the farmers, particularly women, of Seemonasasa Nasati village in Khurda district of Orissa use karka to cut small plants and also for cutting small branches of mango or other trees for fuel purpose in all seasons. Karka is made of iron with wooden handle. It is a very useful and low-cost implement. Keywords: karka, small axe, wooden handle Ms Bishnupriya Mishra Training Associate (Agril. Extension), KVK Ganjam, Bhajnagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 8 Post-Harvest Technology Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2435 Winnowing of paddy This unique system is practiced in Meghalaya for winnowing of paddy in the field itself.