 If kept even in shade it gets spoiled, shrinked and dried, within a few days. To keep the small quantity of vegetables, the villagers use this ITK. It was reported that the vegetables remain fresh and hard up to 3 days. The villagers, however, reported that sometimes when there is more humidity in the atmosphere, some water comes into the small pot, which spoils some of the vegetables. Hence the villagers keep a watch and remove the water on every 6 hours, if any, from the small pot. To determine the efficiency of ITK through matrix ranking of PRA, 20 key informants from seven villages were asked to score four treatments on seven criteria. The treatments were control and Fig. 1. A view of sheetal with fresh vegetables for storage Fig. 2. A view of sheetal with fresh vegetables for storage  GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Experiment Phase I The data in respect of phase I of study conducted during November 2002 are presented in Table 2. Brinjal: The results of the ITK were highly encouraging for brinjal. In all the replications, the weight of brinjal remained as such while kept in sheetal. But under control treatment the weight of brinjal was reduced from 40 to 80 g on day 3. On day 5, not only 40 to 60 g weight was reduced again, but also one fourth of the vegetable (brinjal) was spoiled. About 250 to 300 g. brinjal was spoiled by much shrinkage. Their shine disappeared and the colour turned to dark. Smell of freshness disappeared. Torai: The results of the ITK were not much encouraging in case of torai in comparison to the control. There was little reduction in weight, while kept in sheetal. But there was a lot of spoilage (200 to 360 g) on day 5, even when kept in sheetal. Spoilage, however, was much more (340 to 420 g) under control treatment in addition to reduction of weight. In two replications, more torai remained better under control than in sheetal on day 3. In these cases, torai kept in sheetal was spoiled on the third day itself. In fact, vegetable got percolated water, which spoiled it. The vegetable became black and rotten. On the fifth day, however, the spoilage was more in control treatment. It was observed that in November, water evaporation was very little, which on one hand did not have bad effect under control, while it increased humidity and water in torai, which spoiled the vegetable. Bhindi: The results obtained by use of sheetal were quite encouraging for keeping bhindi fresh. The observations indicated that under control treatment the vegetable had loss of water and weight. There was a lots of shrinkage on day 5. On day 3, however, bhindi r emained unaffected except loss of 70 to 125 g weight in 1 kg vegetable. When kept in sheetal, the loss of weight on day 3 was only 25 to 75 g. In three samples, a few bhindi were spoiled also. On day 5 the loss was slight, whereas it was quite high in the control treatment (160 to 200 g). In addition, there was little spoilage also in sheetal on day 5.