 improved trace mineral metabolism, antioxidant response and favourably affect mRNA expression of Hsp70 in goats under heat stress conditions indicating the potential An embedded software on ARM platform SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 170 Paddy straw residues management through in situ microbial decomposition Under the field conditions microbial consortium recorded the 22% of degradation (C: N ratio reduction) after 30 days, which had the positive effect on wheat. Subsequently, NRRI fungal consortium was modified with addition of efficient silicate solubilizer and Streptomyces sp. and its application along with different additives (0.1% CMC or 1.0% jaggery, 2 mM concentration of CuSO4, MgSO4 and MnSO4 and 30 kg urea per 6t straw) with sufficient moisture (field capacity) significantly increased degradation of paddy straw compared to without additives after 25 days. The development of mechanical intervention for in-situ management of rice-residues involved selection of optimum design values of cutting unit. The minimum cutting force (1.30 N) and cutting energy (6.85 N.mm) was observed at bevel angle 15°L, cutting angle 25°L, and cutting velocity 4.10 m/s with composite desirability of 0.983. The critical design parameters of inoculum application system were also optimized. The conceptual design of prototype for in situ rice residues management was developed with cutting, conveying, chopping, and inoculum application system as the major functional components. A customized attachment of microbial inoculum applicator suitable for straw-cutter-cum-spreader was also developed. Conceptual design of prototype machine for in situ rice residues management Using potential lignoceullulolytic microbes (including bacteria, fungi, actinomycetes), “Ekcel decomposer” consortia was developed for accelerating the decomposition of different bio- waste. In addition, a drum type composting unit and shredder machines namely “Ekcel Composter” and “Ekcel Shredder” were also customized and fabricated for enhanced decomposition of organic residues. In this technique, different types of waste material like vegetable waste, kitchen waste, horticultural waste and farm waste are used for composting and quality compost, free from pathogen and nematodes was ready for field application within 25–45 days. In the field studies, beneficial effects of application of enriched compost to augment the crop productivity compared to recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF) and control were also found. A model compost unit was developed at IISS center for demonstration to the farmers, students and other stakeholders. The “Ekcel decomposer” is also being used for in situ decomposition of rice–wheat residue in farmers’ field of Bhopal. protocol was standardized for maximum extraction of microalgal protein from algal biomass that can be substituted in the diets of freshwater fishes as a protein supplement.