 Five soil and water conservation measures, including continuous contour trenches, staggered contour trenches, halfmoon terraces, semi-elliptical trenches, and graded trenches all with veg- etative barriers of Stylosanthes scabra and Vetiveria zizanoides, were tested under cashews and found signifi- cant improvement in SOC, sequestration rates, and micro- bial activity compared to the control. Continuous contour trenches with vegetative barriers were most effective with highest soil quality index (0.98), reducing environmental stress on microbes (Mahajan et al., 2020). Small-scale farm-level harvesting structures allows farmers to use stored water for irrigation at critical crop stage and enable second crops after pre-sowing irrigation. A study from Geba watershed on a treated 110 ha area, which included interventions like free grazing prohibition, 80 km of soil bunds with trenches and with/without biological interven- tions, gabion (71 m3) and wooden check dams (730 m3), percolation pits (19), resulted in significantly higher crop production and SOC sequestration compared to an un- treated 100 ha watershed. SOC sequestration was recorded at 12.25, 7.77, and 13.5 Mg C/ha in cropland, tree lucerne, and modified grazing plots, respectively (Terefe et al., 2020). Optimized water usage and reduced reliance on fossil fuel-powered irrigation systems as a component of watershed management lowers the carbon footprint. Addi- tionally, increased water availability supports higher bio- mass production, contributing to greater carbon sequestra- tion. Furthermore, it’s crucial to avoid top-down carbon storage strategies and instead prioritize locally-adapted approaches that harmonize carbon management with local livelihoods, ecosystem function, and cultural, social, and economic priorities, promoting better adoption of climate- resilient practices. Watershed encourages the integration of farm enter- prises and other sustainable land-use practices within the watershed. Integrated farming systems like Agri-horticul- ture, Agroforestry, Silvi-pastoral systems which combine trees with crops, forage or livestock, can enhance biodiversity, improve soil health, and increase carbon se- questration. Watershed management ensures that these practices are implemented in a way that maximizes their ecological benefits, including carbon storage. By promot- ing diverse land uses that work together to enhance eco- system services, watershed management reduces the car- bon footprint of agricultural and land management activi- ties in drylands. Six micro-watersheds established on a hilly slope (32.0–53.2%) of the Meghalaya, India were evaluated for runoff and soil loss for 24 years using water erosion prediction model. Agri-horticulture followed by agroforestry and horti-silvi-pastoral systems were superior to abandoned shifting cultivation and showed 47.8–57.0% and 39.2–74.6% lesser runoff and soil loss, respectively (Choudhary et al., 2022).