 These systems have a greater carbon sequestration capac- ity of 16.4 Gt C compared to 6.3 Gt C in tree agroforestry, highlighting the need for effective carbon management. Sustainable land management using perennial fruits and plantation crops integration with annuals can boost carbon sequestration by 10-20% and improve SOC by 20-50% over annual crops. Practices like crop rotation, intercrop- ping, and cover cropping enhance soil quality and plant yield, potentially increasing soil carbon storage by 2-5 Mg/ha/yr (Ilakiya et al., 2024). These practices are par- ticularly effective in dryland areas, where tree roots can access deep soil moisture and nutrients, providing shade and reducing evapotranspiration rates. This contributes to more efficient water use and reduced reliance on irrigation and synthetic fertilizers, which in turn lowers the energy demands associated with water pumping and fertilizers. Improved nutrient cycling and reduced use of synthetic fertilizers can lower nitrous oxide emissions, a potent greenhouse gas. Furthermore, the reduction in tillage and the increase in organic matter associated with agroforestry practices help maintain or enhance soil carbon stocks. Organic and natural farming Soil organic amendments, such as compost, manure, and biochar, play a crucial role in sustainable agriculture by improving soil health, enhancing crop productivity, and reducing carbon footprints. The incorporation of organic matter into the soil builds SOC, improves soil structure, water-holding capacity, and nutrient availability which lead to more resilient and productive agricultural systems. The conventional agriculture is major contributor of GHG emission, transitioning to organic farming can increase soil carbon sequestration and reduce carbon footprints. Application of compost in sorghum crop increased SOC by 14.3-21.4% over nitrogen fertilizer treatments. The compost application has also increased the soil potential nitrogen mineralization and total soil nitrogen, and they were negatively correlated with CO2-C and N2O-N emis- sion, respectively at p<0.10 (Musfiq-Us-Salehin et al., 2020). Skinner et al. (2019) observed a 40.2% reduction of N2O emissions per hectare in organic nutrient manage- ment-based grass-clover– silage maize – green manure cropping sequence compared to non-organic nutrient man- agement. Organic amendments also contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by decreasing the need for syn- thetic fertilizers, which are energy-intensive to produce and apply. This not only lowers the overall lifecycle car- bon footprint of production system but also reduces N2O- N emission, a potent greenhouse gas associated with the use of synthetic nitrogen fertilizers. The addition of or- ganic amendments improves soil microbial activity, which is essential for nutrient cycling and soil fertility.