 Azolla cultivation Cultivation of azolla as a backyard activity and supplementation as green feed improves milk yield and milk quality. 10% 16. Grain sprouts as fodder source Sprouting of cereal grains like maize with water sprinkling with or without straw bedding has shown to be a supplementary green fodder source as a contingency measure and also improves water use efficiency. 15% 17 Ration balancing using Feed chart and Feed Assist Tools for Balancing major nutrients in dairy animals using local feed resources have been developed. This will improve milk yield and health of animals. 20% 18. Fishery farming Transforming one acre of paddy farming into fish farming increases the farmer’s income by 15 folds. One rears the fish seed separately for 2-3 months and then stock the ponds scientifically there are very less chances of failure in fish culture. Using local cheap feed material one could reduce the cost of cultivation to a greater extent and increase the net income. 15 fold increase 266 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Summary Recommendations: Karnataka state is having second largest area under rainfed agriculture next only to Rajasthan. The State also is one of the most drought prone State of the country. For instance, of the 176 blocks, over 140 were declared as drought hit during the year 2016-17. Despite this, the state has been contributing significantly to the nation’s food basket. However, farmers in general and those in particular engaged in rainfed agriculture are facing wide spread distress due to increase in cost of living and decreasing profitability. The impetuous being accorded to Doubling the Farmer‘s Income is very timely and the dire need of the hour especially in the State of Karnataka. There is ample scope as evidenced by several important studies that the farming is support by required inputs at affordable cost and the farmers realizes higher market prices for his produce, the goal of Doubling the Farmer‘s Income within the given time frame is very much achievable. Certain studies have shown that unless the farmers share in the consumer rupee increases from the current 22%-24% to an expected 55-60%, farming will remain an unprofitable proposition. However, realizing higher share for farmers in the consumer price is fraught with several challenges. Primarily it calls for major market reforms. Improved grading and processing infrastructure besides technology led weather forecasting, market intelligence and insurance. Improving production by adopting better planting materials and improved agricultural technology will enable to contribute approximately 30% to the farmer’s income. Another 30% of income contribution can be realized by adding value through grading, primary processing and cost reduction through improvement in input use efficiency.