 1,000 bio-CNG plants will consume 11 million tons of paddy straw every year. Power Generation from Biomass This option is recommended for further consideration. The cost of establishing one 18 MW biomass based power generation unit will be ` 150 crores. This plant will produce 10 crore units of power every year and will have an average life of 15 years. If 1,000 such plants are established then the electricity produced will be 10,000 crore units per year. If 40% subsidy on 3 Executive Summary the cost of the plant and machinery is given then the profit per plant per year will be ` 29.80 crores and the breakeven will occur in 5 years. Total money required for subsidy at the rate of 40% will be ` 60,000 crores. Total paddy straw consumed by 1000 such units will be will be 16.20 million tons per year. Alcohol production from paddy straw (lignocellulosic biomass) This option is not recommended for further consideration. Technical and commercial data on the plant performances are not available at this point of time. The experience of India is also limited. Cost of plant and machinery for a plant with a capacity of 300 lakh litres of alcohol per year will be ` 800 to 1,000 crores. Such a plant will consume 0.15 million tons of paddy straw every year. Based on the cost estimates available in the literature (Japanese estimates) the loss incurred from such a plant will be ` 15,993 crores per year. Ex-situ Composting of Paddy Straw This option is not recommended for further consideration. The loss incurred by a farmer by composting off the field will be ` 1,500 per ha per year. 1% of the land area will be lost for composting yard resulting in a loss of 43,500 ha in Punjab and Haryana and a grain production loss of 4.35 lakh tonnes every year. The process of collecting and transporting the straw from the field to the compost site and managing it over the composting period are labour intensive and cumbersome.  4 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options A LARGE portion of the paddy straw / crop residues in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring states are burnt in the field primarily to clear the field after the harvest of the preceding crop for the sowing next crop. Burning of straw causes pollution problems in the atmosphere and huge nutritional loss and physical health deterioration to the soil. In Punjab and Haryana about 3.1 million ha area is under rice-wheat rotation and 1.25 million ha under rice-potato rotation. The time available between the rice harvesting and wheat sowing is very narrow and in the range of 20 to 25 days. The paddy straw is burnt in the field because it is a very easy and quick method of disposal. Burning of crop residues results in emission of gases such as CH4, CO, N2O and NO; particulate matters, loss of plant nutrients and adversely affect the atmosphere, the environment and the soil health.