 Accent issues and special issues of semi-technical periodicals were brought out on topical themes these include ‘Small Millets’ and ‘Agronomy for Sustainable Management of Natural Resources, Environment, Energy and Livelihood Security to achieve Zero Hunger Challenge’ (Indian Farming, March and November 2016, respectively); and ‘Vegetables for nutritional and livelihood security’ and ‘Doubling farmers income through Horticulture’ (Indian Horticulture, January- February; and November-December 2016) respectively. In addition, nearly 110 publications were brought out in English and Hindi as technical books, monographs, textbooks, handbooks, technical bulletins, brochures etc. Special emphasis was given on bringing out the publications in Hindi to cater the farmers and other stakeholders for dissemination of information about the new technologies, scientific farming and other related issues. Several special issues of the popular monthly Hindi magazine Kheti were published during this period, including special issues on Antarrashtriya Dalhan Varsh-2016, Safalta Gatha Visheshank, A booklet in Hindi Avashist se Sampada which was compiled based on the technologies related to recycling and processing of agricultural waste. Leaflets published by various ICAR institutes were edited and republished for distribution in Krishi Unnati Mela, 2016. ICAR as the national input center for the AGRIS database of FAO, prepared and supplied 2,000 inputs to FAO in WebAgris software to enable on-line search by users. Training programmes were organized on data indexing and preparation of input for AGRIS database for the participants from ICAR Institutions and Professional Societies. Documentary films for creating awareness among farming community were produced by DKMA, i.e. ‘Grand Groundnut - A film on success story of groundnut in India’, ‘Fisheries for small farmers’ and ‘Genetic diversity of rice for food security’. A short- film based on the interviews of beneficiary farmers was also launched during this period. Showcasing of new technologies The Council organized and participated in 16 exhibitions for the showcasing of new technologies on the occasion of national and international events, and sale of ICAR publications and e-products (January- December 2016). Notable exhibitions in which ICAR participated are: India International trade Fair 2016, Vibrant Gujarat 2017, Agrovision 2016, and India International Science Festival. Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture The Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) provided online access to scholarly literature by making available over 3,800 research journals to scientists, students and research scholars of 152 member institutions including ICAR research institutes and agricultural universities across the country. During the period over 25 lakh full text articles have been downloaded by member institutions of CeRA and over 4,000 Document Delivery Requests were successfully fulfilled by member libraries.