 Clonal seaweeds have the ability to propagate from their fragments when attached to ropes and nets in marine water. After each harvesting, small fragments of seaweeds are allowed to remain attached to nets from which thalli will get regenerated in the next growing season. Whereas, non- clonal seaweed cultivation is a multistep method that requires the rearing of seedlings and installing them on ropes for their cultivation. The gap between the demand and supply of seaweed can be better overcome by the adaptation of new cultivation techniques for the better cultivation of different types of seaweed species. Seaweed cultivation can be done in two ways, viz. spore inoculated ropes/ spore seeded ropes technique and vegetative fragments in raft technique. In India, mostly the vegetative fragment raft technique is used for the cultivation of seaweeds. Usually, one raft of cultivated Table 1. Diversity of seaweeds in India vs world Seaweed Seaweed species in India World wide Red algae 470 3900–9500 Brown algae 211 1500–2151 Green algae 348 800–1597 Total 1029 6200–13,248 Source: Nivedita and Raghunathan (2016) Cultivation of seaweed on a bamboo raft Source: https://www.forbesindia.com/media/images/2021/Nov/img_170751_eco-miracle.jpg Indian Farming 5 September 2023 seaweed produces 200 kg of seaweed in 45 days. Commercial seaweed cultivation can be done in 4 ways i.e. floating raft method, semi-floating raft method, half-bottom method and bottom planting method. The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) at Mandapam in Tamil Nadu developed technology for the commercial cultivation of Gracilaria edulis by using a floating raft and rope net/spore method. Nutritive value In countries like Japan and China, seaweeds are consumed as a staple food for a very long time. Seaweeds are a good source of a variety of nutrients such as dietary fibre, protein, lipids, vitamins (A, B, C, D and E), minerals (Ca, P, Na, K and I), polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA), and many bioactive compounds such as carotenoids, polyphenols and pigments. They are also a rich sources of structural (cellulose, hemicellulose and xylose) and storage polysaccharides (carrageenan, laminarin, fucoidan, alginic acid, alginate and agar) which as prebiotic components improve the gut health by selectively stimulating the growth of health positive bacteria. Seaweed as a source of phycocolloids The seaweed cell walls are a good source of phycocolloids such as agar, alginate, ulvan, and carrageenan which have commercial value in the global market. Seaweed polysaccharides are used in a variety of industries due to their physical properties such as gelation, viscosity, and stabilizing properties. Phycocolloids have a wide range of applications in several industries including the food (as a thickener and stabilizer), biotechnological (agar), and the pharmaceutical industry.