 y The bugs when crowd on the developing fruit, it causes the fruits to fall a couple of week later. Total loss of litchi crop is observed in case of severe litchi bug incidence. Litchi mite (Aceria litchi) y It is a one of the major non-insect pest of litchi which has been reported from all the litchi growing countries of the world. y Normally infestation of litchi mites observed on trees throughout the year, however, severe infestation may be noticed from March to September and population found to be inactive during extreme cold. y There is a direct and positive correlation between the growth of new leaves and the mite infestation in the orchards. y Litchi population was also significantly influenced by temperature and relative humidity. y Dispersal of the erineum mite reported from one orchard to other takes place through old infested litchi leaves or by winds. Both nymphs and adults damage the leaves, newly formed leaf buds, inflorescence and young developing fruits by puncturing and lacerate the tissues with their stout rostrum and suck the cell sap, resulting in no flowering/fruiting. y The damage of mites leads to curling of leaves. At the later stage in curled leaves, chocolate-brown growth on the ventral surface of leaves is usually visible. Organic pest management options Two spraying of neem oil (4 ml/L), first before flowering and second just after fruit setting should be given to avoid insect egg laying. Two sprays with panchgavya (30 ml/L) made up of cow ghee, urine, dung, curd milk along with banana and sugarcane juice should be done at clove stage and colour break stage. Two spray with biodynamic pesticide (50 ml/L) made up with cow urine, cow-dung, chopped leaves of neem/calotropis (madar) decomposed in water should be done at aril (pulp) development stage and about 10 days before expected fruit harvest. Adoption of good orchard management practices like pruning of infested twigs in June, manuring of plants with 4 kg castor-cake and 1 kg neem-cake in the 2nd week of July and prophylactic spray of neem-based formulations (4 ml/L) during new flush emergence (September-October) improve the effectiveness of organic schedule against major pests of litchi. Table 3. Insecticides recommended for litchi pests Target pests Name of insecticide Dose (ml formulation/ litre of water) Fruit & shoot borer, looper, leaf folder Spinetoram 11.7 SC 1.0 Lufenuron 5 EC 1.2 Novaluron 10 EC 1.5 Emamectin benzoate 5% SG 2.0 Flubendiamide 39.35 SC 0.3 Spinosad 45 SC 0.35 Chlorantranilprole 18.5 SC 0.40 Thiacloprid 21.7 SC 0.7-1.0 Imidacloprid 17.8 SL 0.7-1.0 Azadirachtin 1% 3.0-4.0 Fruit & shoot borer, looper, leaf folder, bug Novaluron 5.25% + Indoxacarb 4.5% SC 1.0 Trizophos 35% + Deltamethrin 1% EC 2.0 Fruit & shoot borer, looper, leaf folder, bug, weevils Thiamethoxam12.6% + Lambdacyhalothrin 9.5% 0.4-0.5 Mite, fruit & shoot borer, looper, leaf folder, bug, weevils Chlorfenapyr 10 EC 2.5-3.0 Mite Spiromesifen 22.9 SC 1.5-2.0 Propargite 57 EC 3.