 The yellow plastic mulch attracts insects so it can be used to attract and kill insects. The silver-reflective type of plastic mulch associated with higher reflectance causes insect disorientation and repels aphids. This technology is again useful for areas with water scarcity or rainfed ecosystems, and can conserve moisture to the extent of 50% water saving and 30% nutrient saving. Thus, we can conserve resources, economies input use and efficiency and harvest 25–30% higher yields as also the quality, playing a significant role increase in income and overall upliftment of livelihood of farming families. SUMMARY Protected cultivation based horticultural production systems, thus, have immense uses in order to conserve the water, nutrient and energy resources besides increasing the production, generating additional income for the farmers, creating more employment opportunities in rural areas for the unemployed youth and women folk. Keeping in view the increasing demand of off-season and high value vegetables, fruits and flowers in metropolitan cities of the country, there is an urgent need for diversification of traditional agriculture by production of high value horticultural crops under different protected structures for increasing the productivity and quality produce for getting high returns. In future, there is a need to encourage environmentally degradable material for storage and handling of vegetable produce, besides adopting good agricultural practices and IPM. There is also need of developing technology for production of eco-friendly plastic and eco-friendly disposal of waste plastic. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: mnishakadian@gmail.com Poly - tunnels Source: Deposit photos Plastic mulching in tomato Indian Farming 9 February 2023 Swarna Samriddhi Dhan: A high yielding, multiple stress tolerant rice variety for irrigated and rainfed shallow lowland ecology Santosh Kumar, Rakesh Kumar* and A K Choudhary ICAR Research Complex for Eastern region, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Under the climate change scenario, frequent occurrence of drought or submergence has been identified as key factor to the low productivity of rice in eastern India. A high yielding, multiple stress (drought, submergence, disease and insect pest) tolerant rice variety, Swarna Samriddhi Dhan (IET 24306) has been released and notified for irrigated as well as rainfed shallow lowland agroecology. This rice variety is a medium duration (135–140 days), high yielding (5.5–6.0 t/ha), with desirable grain and cooking quality traits. It is also suitable for cultivation in water limiting irrigated and drought-prone rainfed areas. Beside drought (reproductive stage) tolerant, it can also tolerate 10–12 days submergence (vegetative stage). This variety shows moderately resistance to leaf blast, brown spot, sheath blight, false smut, stem borer, leaf folder, and gall midge insect pest. Adoption of this variety increases net income of `18000–25000/ha over farmers adopted local cultivars.