 Bapu was also aware about the impact of air pollution, he emphasized that nature has provided fresh air free of cost but the present civilization has priced it. At Ahmadabad meeting on January 1, 1918 he emphasized the need for purity of air, water and food. He said, “We are generally careless about air, water, food and hygiene” and opined about River Ganga that “The washing of the cloth and defecating are recklessness in nature and it leads to pollution of air and water and it will destroy the dharma and disregard duty to society ”. In this Chapter we revisited the Mahatma’s vision on environment, illustrated the testimonies of Gandhiji’s efforts on environment conservation, 98 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR assessed the contribution of ICAR for promoting environment-friendly agriculture and analyzed his influence on national policies on environment and agriculture. 2. Mahatma’s Vision on Environment In the modern sense, Gandhiji was not an environmentalist and the big environmental issues of the present arose in the post-Gandhi period. Even without losing the quality of life, his ideals can be implemented to stall further worsening of environmental ill-effects. He was a thinker with a profoundly ecological sensibility. The Bapu gave the world a new vision of harmonising nature with the desires of individuals. Arne Næss, the philosopher from Norway with the idea of “deep ecology”, acknowledged his realization of “the essential oneness of all life” from Gandhiji. Bapu believed in four principles viz. Satyagrah (holding onto truth, non-violence, fighting with peace), Sarvodya (universal uplift), Swaraj (self-rule or self-governance) and Swadeshi (self-sufficiency). His concern about the environment was evident in his speeches, writings and his messages. He once said, “The natural resources like earth, land, water and air are not received from our ancestors but it is loan from our children and we have to handed over to them as we received”. He possibly was one of the “world’s early environmentalists in vision and practice”. Many of the environmental movements in India were inspired by Gandhiji. All the international conferences such as the Stockholm Conference (1972) and the Rio Earth Summit (1992) were convened much later than the concerns raised by Gandhiji about the environment. The international organizations such as United Nations and national organizations of different countries took initiatives such as UN Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) and UN Environmental Programme (UNEP) much later. Major movements to protect environment in India such as the Chipko Movement and the Narmada Bachao Andolan derived inspirations from the Mahatma. Gandhiji’s seminal work, Hind Swaraj (1909) discussed aptly environmental destruction and the threat to the planet. Today when the world is talking about achieving the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the Gandhian ideas have become increasingly relevant.