 Concerned SNAs shall keep a record of the unspent amount lying in the account of IAs to be deposited in the Single Nodal Account while assigning drawing rights to IAs. 15. Ministries/ Departments will ensure that releases under all CSS are made strictly as per the actual requirement on the ground, without resulting in any material float with the implementing agencies at any level. 16. The State Government will transfer the Central share received in its account in the RBI to the concerned SNA's account within a period of 21 days of its receipt. The Central share shall not be diverted to the Personal Deposit (PD) account or any other account by the State Government. Corresponding State share should be released as early as possible and not later than 40 days of release of the Central share. The funds will be maintained by the SNA in the Single Nodal Account of each CSS. State Governments/SNAs/IAs shall not transfer scheme-related funds to any other bank account, except for actual payments under the Scheme. 17. State Governments will register the SNAs and all IAs on PFMS and use the unique PFMS ID assigned to the SNA and IAs for all payments to them. Bank accounts of the SNAs, IAs, vendors and other organizations receiving funds will also be mapped in PFMS. 18. Payments will be made from the zero balance subsidiary accounts up to the drawing limit assigned to such accounts from time to time. Transactions in each Subsidiary Account will be settled with the Single Nodal Account daily through the core banking solution (CBS) on the basis of payments made during the day. 19. SNAs and IAs will mandatorily use the EAT module of PFMS or integrate their systems with the PFMS to ensure that information on PFMS is updated by each IA at least once every day. 20. SNAs will keep all the funds received in the Single Nodal Account only and shall not divert the same to Fixed Deposits/Flexi-Account/Multi-Option Deposit Account/Corporate Liquid Term Deposit (CLTD) Account etc. 21. The State TFMIS should be able to capture scheme component-wise expenditure along with PFMS Scheme Code and Unique Code of the Agencies incurring the expenditure. State Governments will ensure daily uploading/sharing of data by the State IFMIS/Treasury applications on PFMS. PFMS will act as a facilitator for payment, tracking and monitoring of fund flow. 77 22. Release of funds by the Ministries/Departments to States towards the end of the financial year should be avoided to prevent accumulation of unspent balances with States. Ministries/Departments will arrange to complete the release well in time so that States have ample time to seek supplementary appropriations from their respective legislatures, if required, and account for all the releases in the same financial year. 23.