 Many small farmers, however, occasionally rent pumps for irri­ gation of broadacre plots away from their homesteads (Deininger et al., 2017). For them, electrification or switching to smaller diesel pumps could reduce rental fees, improve production through supplementary irrigation, and perhaps reduce drought risk (our data comes from good rainfall years and better data from drought years is required to test this hypothesis) - thus bolstering food security and climate resilience. But the small profits that can be derived from their small plots and unreliable market linkages are unlikely to contribute to a rural transformation (de Bont et al., 2019; Keil et al., 2019). For small farmers, rice-wheat intensification, and crop production in general may not be the poverty alleviation strategy for the future, as profits are simply too small. Better off-farm income opportunities are required andupgrading agricultural value chains may provide some of them. Nevertheless, the intensification of rice-wheat farming has a clear role to play in famine prevention among the poor and food security of groups other than smallholder farmers. Therefore, policymakers and practitioners should encourage equitable distribution of irrigation infrastructure and incrementally build a rural knowledge base around sustainable and effective water management at the field level in line with broader sustainable agricultural intensification efforts. Such widespread access to affordable irrigation can help poor households by increasing food production and lowering its price. Cheaper food prices will increase the purchasing power of the poor and reduce the depth of their poverty. However, analysis of this general equilibrium effect of irrigation on poverty reduction is beyond the scope of this paper. Be­ sides, irrigation should not be promoted as a direct way out of poverty for the smallest farms, but policymakers should rather devise options for small farmers to enable supplementary income generation or a move out of agriculture for those who prefer that while using irrigation to buffer their production against climate shocks. Providing honest feedback and telling small farmers that they simply cannot generate sufficient income from farming their land and need to consider other options for gener­ ating income may be the best farming advice for them. Increasing land productivity through irrigation-led intensification of rice-wheat production does not stand at odds with poverty reduction and can contribute to achieving goals such as food security. But achieving both requires a multi-faceted approach that encompasses a focus on farmers’ broader livelihood strategies, food security of landless, and strengthening and upgrading agricultural input and output value chains (Hanjra et al., 2009; Namara et al., 2010).