78% (20th Livestock Census Report, 2019) Feeding systems for goat have been developed on the basis of climatic conditions, agriculture patterns, region, utility and economic conditions of the farmer. Three types of system for goats are generally practiced in the India, viz. extensive (free range), semi-intensive (grazing and supplementation) and intensive (stall feeding).Tethering is used when farmers are having less number (less than 5) of goats. The intensive system of goat production includes browsing on developed pastures and /or feeding completely in stalls on cultivated fresh or conserved forages, crop residues and concentrates. This system has been developed for getting maximum weights of kids at an early age with higher feed efficiency. It is highly labour and capital-intensive system and constitutes less than 5% of the small ruminant production in the country. This system is mostly coming up in peri-urban areas driven by better market access to cater the growing demand for meat. Production and consumption of balanced feed mixtures as pellets or blocks based on maximum use of by products is beneficial. Feeding system based on complete pellet feed is quite helpful in present scenario, where community grazing land is under threat. Complete pellet feed is a technique providing synchronized nutrient availability in the rumen of ruminant animals with higher nutrient use efficiency for production functions. Technique disallowing the selective ingestion habits of the goat, providing the ease in using unconventional feeds, fortifying several limiting dietary components facilitates balanced nutrient delivery for fermentation. Complete pellet feed can be prepared by mixing the roughage and concentrate and processing it through the pellet making machine. Pelleting improves overall nutrient use and production efficiency by 15-25%. The intake of this pellet varies from 4-6% of body weight of goats depending upon physiological status. This complete feed will provide all the nutrients required by the goats to meet their physiological and production demand. A number of complete pellet feed having different feed Indian Farming 29 January 2024 Cutting of maize into small pieces using chaff cutter resources has been formulated and evaluated for the feeding of goats under different agro-climatic and environmental condition at ICAR- Central Institute for Research on Goats, Makhdoom, Farah. Depending upon the resources available to farmers, the farmers can opt for system of feeding practice to get the maximum benefits. Silage based feeding Silage is defined by the USDA as ”any crop that is harvested and preserved in a succulent condition by partial fermentation in a more- or-less airtight container such as a silo” (USDA National Agricultural Library). Silage is prepared mostly from non-leguminous fodder like maize, bajra having a good quantity of fermentable sugar. These crops are fermented anaerobically in a closed container silo bag/ silo pit.