 • The microbial diversity under mangrove ecology was significantly different than that of adjacent rice soil due to difference in salinity, tidal intrusion and continuous wet drying nature of the mangrove sediments. Total methanogens population was less in mangrove sediments due to higher salinity and regular tide flow (wetting-drying condition) in mangrove system. Natural resource management • Over 1,300 and 282 field observations on surface soil moisture (SSM) and sub surface soil moisture (SSSM) were collected using soil moisture meter and soil moisture probe, and partly by gravimetric methods. These will serve as ground truth for satellite data estimates of SSM. Twenty access tubes were permanently installed to act as SSM and SSSM monitoring network at IARI farm (by using soil moisture probe). • The 137Cs data revealed that there were different redistribution patterns in different phases of erosion. In the study areas, the 137Cs concentration ranged from 198.71±15.54 Bq m- 2 in very severely eroded phase to maximum 1081.87±89.97 Bq m-2 in reference site. • Based on the findings at plot scale it was observed that at the national level in India, erosion transported about 4.87 Pg of soil and 115.36 Tg of C every year, which consequently emits about 34.61 Tg of C to the atmosphere. • The results also revealed that the contribution of C-losses due to erosion was 15% in very severely eroded unfertilized pots and was 4% in slightly eroded unfertilized plots. Horticulture • Regeneration and hardening of transgenic onion plants expressing GFP-tail swap was done. • Targeted mutagenesis silencing of AcCenH3, gene in onion is done. • Klebsiella oxytoca was shown to be responsible for sexual behaviour and reproductive organ maturation in insects, is transmitted to the next generation by females, and is responsible for sexual attraction cues in Bactrocera dorsalis. • GC-EAD studies using volatiles from different stages of B. dorsalis infested mangoes helped identify specific cues that attracted the endoparasitoid, Diachasmimorpha longicaudata. This study is extremely beneficial for developing biological control strategy. • It was observed earlier that B. cucurbitae females and males were highly attractive to the volatiles of cut cucumber and ridge gourd volatiles, with this information, blends were constituted and tested in fields. The highest numbers of insect catch (males and females) were observed in the blends like CB (cucumber blend) followed by CB + C (cucumber blend + cu-lure), RB + C (ridge gourd blend + cu-lure) in the field of bitter gourd, bottle gourd and cucumber fields suggesting that the above blends could be used as part of IPM. Agricultural engineering • Fortification of chocolate cake with flax seed meal and chia gel was performed to enhance the consumption of health beneficial polyunsaturated fatty acids like eicosapentaenoic acid, docosahexaenoic acid.