 Joint Official Language Implementation Committee of the DARE and the ICAR working under the Chairmanship of the Additional Secretary, DARE/Secretary, ICAR met regularly. Similarly, Official Language Implementation Committees constituted at 86 ICAR Institutes/Centers etc. held their meetings regularly. Remaining institutes DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 212 etc. were instructed to constitute such committees immediately. Proceedings of the Official Language Implementation Committee meetings held by the Institutes etc. as well as the quarterly progress reports regarding use of Official Language Hindi received from various institutes at the ICAR (headquarter) were reviewed, and remedial steps were suggested to overcome the shortcomings found in the proceedings and the reports. Rosters were maintained for imparting training in Hindi, Hindi typing and Hindi Stenography and officials were accordingly deputed for training and 12 stenographers and 9 typists were nominated for Hindi Stenography and Typing during the reported year. ICAR (headquarter) and its institutes celebrated “Hindi Chetna Mass” since 14 September, 2002. Prizes were given away on 12 November 2002. The messages of Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture, and Secretary, ICAR were issued in which they appealed to do maximum official work in Hindi. During 2002 Hindi Workshops (3) were organized for officers/staff members. During 2001–2002 cash awards were given to 10 officials at the ICAR (headquarters) for doing their maximum official work in Hindi. Under the ‘Rajarshri Tandon Rajbhasha Purskar’ scheme launched in 1998–99, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi received first prize; National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal received second prize under the category of Large Institutes. Under Category of Small Institutes, Central Institute for Sub-tropical Horticulture, Lucknow got first prize and the National Research Centre for Soybean, Indore received second prize. Under Category of ‘C’ region Central Institute for Fisheries Technology, Cochin received first prize and National Academy of Agricultural Research, Hyderabad received second prize. In accordance with the recommendations made by Department of Official Language and Parliamentary Committee on Official Language, to assess the progress of use of Hindi at the Council (headquarter) as well as its institutes, during 2002 fifteen offices were inspected and suggestions were given to improve the shortcomings. The RAJBHASH ALOK (5th issue) was published which gives a brief description of progress made in Hindi work at the Council and its institutes. Other institutes also brought out Hindi publicatios. Most of the computers at the ICAR (headquarter) are bilingual and some of them work cent per cent in Hindi only.