 The farmers will now have knowledge and infrastructure to safeguard the seeds that they will use for their farming. Farmers will interact and work towards making the CSB a solution giving enterprise and will have infrastructure of safe-keeping of seeds for long time which was otherwise not possible. iii. Involvement of women in the community seed banks will address the rural women’s involvements and resulting into self reliance in seed related activities which is quite primary requirement. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India Seeds for Needs: A Citizen Science Approach for Climate Change Adaptation: Broadening the genetic base of crops to empower farmers for climate change adaptation through a participatory approach The programme commenced in 2011 in Vaishali district of Bihar, the site selected for climate-smart agriculture under the CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS). The experiment started with 30 A farmer selecting wheat varieties from 20 different wheat varieties in a PVS trial in Bihar ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 13 farmers. The results were so overwhelming that in the years 2013-2014, the number of farmers increased exponentially to 5,000. During Rabi 2014-15, approximately 15,000 farmers participated and provided their feedback for 43 varieties in different locations. Vegetables were provided in the areas where soil has high fertility and irrigation facilities are available. Other crops included in the programme were chickpea, soybean, cowpea, greengram, etc. During Rabi of 2015-16, nine varieties of mustard were distributed to 1100 farmers in Satna. Mustard is not a prevalent crop but its cultivation was successful in the drought-affected region. Mustard was a good fit in the existing wheat-dominated cropping system due to its higher productivity under fewer irrigations and ability to tolerate frost. To promote diversity in farmers’ fields by involving horticultural crops and ensure a successful harvest, Bioversity International in collaboration with national partners is also developing sample nurseries in net houses for farmers in the moisture-stressed areas. An important aspect of this work is raising awareness among farmers on the importance of raising quality seedlings in the nurseries. The established nurseries acted as a prototype in the area. The success of this initiative is likely to encourage other farmers to start their own nurseries. Replication of the intervention will generate more income for growers and more diversity will be available in the farmers’ fields. Talking about the impact, in a survey conducted in Bihar after 3 years of the initiative indicated that 96% farmers in Samastipur, 90% in Muzaffarpur and 73% in Vaishali districts who participated in the trials, agreed on the concept of crop diversification. In other words, they wanted to grow the varieties which were evaluated in crowdsourcing and PVS trials.