 Vegetable and their varieties to be grown during Rabi season: Chinese cabbage-Springsun-60, Palampur green, Tropic Prince Cabbage- KGMR-1, Mitra Broccoli- Green Magic, Lucky Spinach- Banejee Giant, Silver beat/Beet Leaf, Shalimar green, Virginia Savoy Swiss Chard-CITH-Red, CITH Green Methi- IC-74, Kasuri, Pusa Early Bunching Coriander-Shalimar Dhania-1, Surabhi Turnip- PTWG Lettuce-Chinese Yellow, Simpson Black seeded, Grishma KnolKhol- White Vienna, early white vienna Celery-Ford Hook Emperor Kale- Khanyari, HaeznHawk Radish-Japanese white Carrot- Early Nantes Nursery of Cole crops, lettuce and Chinese cabbage should be sown in first fortnight of September Vermi compost should be added before sowing/transplanting @5t/ ha for leafy vegetable and 7t/ha for cole crops Cabbage andbroccoli should be completed in first fortnight of October at a spacing of 45x30 cm. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 69 Spinach and Swiss Chardand other leafy vegetables should be sown at a spacing of 30x30 cm. Radish and carrot should be sown on bunds. Chinese cabbage should be transplanted at a spacing of 30x30 cm. Knol Khol can be transplanted in September- November to get crop throughout the winters. Spinach and Swiss chard should be directly sown before October to get maximum yield throughout the winters. Irrigation is required at an interval of 15-30 days during winter As the irrigation sources are frozen in winter, keep provision of water Tank inside the greenhouse for irrigation purpose Black mulching under the greenhouse/trenches will give excellent yield Agricultural Engineering Bore well may be employed to cater large area under greenhouses. For maintaining temperature in peak winter, Earth Tube Heat Exchanger facility may be employed in the green houses. Otherwise in area like Changthang, greenhouse polythene may be covered under blankets or can use triple layer polycarbonate as covering material during nighttime to maintain heat loss Agro-forestry Autumn plantation of willow may be carried out after leaf fall and in the month of November. Cutting height should not be kept 2 m. Irrigate plant immediately after planting and then 15 days after. Fruit Science Orchard sanitation by cleaning and removing dry leaves, clothes, rotten fruits etc from canal and basin of trees and dispose it with covering 1/2mtr soil or by crushing or burying in doubling plastic bag. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 70 Management of canopy architecture by pruning trees that are more than four-year-old if not pruned earlier. The plants trees which are 1-3 years should be trained to Modified Central leader system or open centre system. Apply Bordeaux paste/Chaubattia paste/white lead paste/Zinc paint on the cut surface. Digging or preparation of pits for transplanting of new plants Top working of inferior cultivars with highly superior/productive type of cultivar Scrap dead bark & lichen from trees with BARK SCRAPEPS or knife (clean).