 Open the app and go under the tree canopy see the image of canopy (whose cover percentage is to be extracted) in the screen and set the mobile screen according to the guiding arrows (appears in green colour). When all four sides of the mobile screen show green outline and the guiding arrow disappears, click photograph by tapping on screen. First it will display the image of canopy and then in the next step will show percentage canopy with photograph. Since this software is based on the quality of the photograph and the camera, there is a possibility of error in the reading due to a low quality photograph, which can be easily pointed out by comparing the canopy photograph and the reading photographs. In the processed image, the software displays the non-canopy portion in red and displays the canopy portion in canopy percentage in that particular photograph. It is recommended to record 2-3 readings to obtain the correct canopy cover so that errors, if any, can be double-checked and corrected. Method for recording observation in respect of insect pests and diseases: Observations under different canopy percentage were recorded in respect of following pest and diseases which are prominent in the region. Following canopy densities were maintained and the observations in respect to insects and pests infestation were recorded respectively. A. Control, no pruning operations > 80% canopy cover. B. Trees pruned to obtain 76 to 80% canopy cover. C. Trees pruned to obtain 70 to 75% canopy cover. It is clear from the data mentioned in Table 1 and 2 that maintaining canopy cover between 76% to 80% by regular pruning of mango trees helps in controlling mango mealy bug 44.2%, mango leaf hoppers 85.02%, shoot gall psylla 66.1%, sooty mould 69.3% and mango malformation 74.3% in comparison to the control (no pruning- canopy cover above 80%) in the mango orchards of Doon Valley. Maintaining canopy cover between 76 to 80% also helps in improving fruit yield by 24.7, number of fruits per tree by 26.8% and average fruit weight by 11.1% over control. This significant control over pests and diseases is 76% Canopy Cover Canopy cover reading recorded after pruning using Canopy Cover app 84% Canopy Cover Canopy cover reading recorded before pruning using Canopy Cover app attributed to the integrated effect of proper air ventilation in the orchard and sunlight exposure to the lower parts of the canopy, stem and orchard soil. CONCLUSION A canopy management practice in mango orchards is helpful in effective management of various insects, pests and diseases for sustained production of disease free quality fruit. Maintaining canopy cover between 76 to 80% is ideal for efficient light utilization for photosynthesis and elimination of parasitic leaves and branches.