 Potatoes are versatile as they can be consumed in various forms as boiled, fried, baked, roasted, steamed and even in several pressed forms such as French fries, chips, papad, flakes, dice, cubes, granules, flour, canned potatoes etc. Potatoes contribute significantly to the nutritive value of a meal, as it is not only a rich source of energy, but contain good quality edible grade protein, dietary fiber, several minerals and trace elements, essential vitamins and little or negligible fat. It is seasonal and the crop produced has a shorter storage life. Hence, under such circumstances, the post-harvest processing of the bulky, perishable potatoes into dehydrated potato products helps to extend the storage life and a serve to increase the supply in off-seasons in different forms, in a price effective manner. Different processed products of potatoes such as potato flour, potato grits, potato flakes, potato granules and potato cubes. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 171 Sweet Potato Sweet potato, a commonly grown root vegetable of winter season is valued for its high nutritive value, flavours, and digestibility. Sweet potato is widely used is India, for food consumption after boiling, baking, or frying. However, in other countries, flour of the sweet potato is often used in biscuits, cakes, and pudding. The advantage of sweet potato over other vegetables is that it has got the shorter growth period, and adverse weather conditions rarely cause a complete crop loss. Sweet potatoes often referred to as “poor people’s food” or “poor men’s crop” has difficulties in marketing and processing. Processing of sweet potato tuber increases their availability and reduces post-harvest wastage. The processed products of sweet potato are sweet potato flour, sweet potato granules and canned sweet potatoes. Sweet potato flour can be incorporated in wheat flour for bread and biscuit baking, hot cakes, gruel, noodles, candy, puddings, and other preparations. It can be mixed with wheat flour for making chapatti and bread. This flour functions as a stabilizing agent in ice- creams. Sweet potatoes are an important source of dietary protein, substantial quantity of vitamins (Beta carotene, B complex and vitamin C) minerals, trace elements and high energy value. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 172 Zone-Iv BIHAR Field Crops Cereals Wheat Timely sowing of wheat crop ensures good crop stand, yield and escape terminal heat stress at the time of maturity. Right time for field preparation and sowing of wheat is 1st week of Nov using zero tillage and late sowing by 20th December. In late sown wheat, increase the seed rate by 10-20%. If sufficient moisture is not available apply light irrigation and complete sowing. Sowing of timely sown wheat varieties DBW 187, HD 2967, K1317, HD 3226, DBW 39, K0307, HD 2824, HD 2402, CBW 38, PBW 343, Sabour Samridhi.