 Major constraint in this technique is 24X7 electricity connection. Cage culture in large reservoirs An important water resource (chaurs and mauns of Bihar) to tap the fish production potential. Cage culture may be promoted at places having a water depth of 10m round the year with 1000 ha or more water spread area. Harvesting Crafts used for fish catching must be washed with soap solution followed by 5 min dip treatment with 1% Sodium hypochlorite solution and leave it for drying. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 204 Gears involved in fish catching should be treated with disinfectants or with home-made neem solution after every use. During craft operation, a maximum of two persons will be allowed for fishing in freshwater bodies. Indigenous boats operating in each area need to follow the rules of keeping 3m safe distance while fishing. Marketing and transport guidelines Fish landing centres may be cleaned using bleaching powder (Calcium hypochlorite) or by Sodium hypochlorite. Fish auction points or whole seller market timing may be constricted to avoid unnecessary gatherings. Sanitize insulated/ refrigerated trucks at the entry point for inter- state transits. Wash and sanitize the small- sized transport vehicles on daily basis. Adopt Matsya Bandhu- a solar based mobile refrigerated vehicle designed by Dr. Rajendra Prasad Central Agricultural University, Pusa for fish retailers to avoid distress sale in late hours. The vehicle in eco-friendly and could easily be used to sell fishes in a hygienic way at doorstep. Along with the above guidelines, the fishermen and all the stakeholders are advised to abide by the general guidelines of personal hygiene- i.e., wearing mask during all the activities, washing hands with soap at regular intervals, keeping safe distance with others and follow 14 days’ quarantine, if tested COVID positive or has travelled (migrant workers) from other states. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 205 Zone-v wesT BeNgAL Boro Paddy: Rice varieties like IET-4786 (Satabdi), Lalat, WGL-20471 (Lal minikit), IR-36, CR-126-42-1, IET-1444, IET-2233, IET-4094 (Khitish) etc. can be grown successfully during boro season. Rice cultivars like Rajendra Bhagwati, Kanak, Dudheswar etc. can be grown in lowlands with moderate salinity. Timely seed sowing in the nursery (1st to 15th December) and timely transplanting (15th to 30th January) with 40-45 days old seedlings is necessary for better crop growth and yield. Apply 54.25 kg neem coated urea + 312.5 kg SSP + 63 Kg MOP ha-1 as basal. Then add 108.5 kg neem coated urea ha-1 at maximum tillering stage (1st top-dressing) and another 54.25 kg neem coated urea + 20 kg MOP at panicle initiation stage (2nd top-dressing). Before sowing, treat rice seeds with mancozeb + carbendazim 2 g or Trichoderma viridae 10 g by dissolving in 10-12 ml water per kg seed; make paste of fungicide solution and rub on the seed.