 Ten lentil varieties were developed and the work on Fe and Zn rich varieties for short season environment is in progress. In Kabuli chickpea, six and in barley nine varieties were developed and 67 spineless cactus varieties were introduced by using ICARDA germplasm. Under the CIP-CPRI collaboration, eight potato varieties were developed out of which two of the processing varieties are occupying over 100,000 ha area in country. In potato, 33 germplasm accessions including six accessions rich in nutrients (Fe, Zn and Vitamin-C) were imported and established at Shimla, which are being utilized for developing indigenous nutrient rich varieties. Potato cultivation in dryland system of Rajasthan and non-potato growing areas in rice-fallow system in North Bengal would augment the increase in farmers’ income. The Bioversity International collaborative research provided support of technological innovation, targeted the poor farmers in priority regions and developing institutional innovations in farming systems to improve access to seed and other inputs and services especially for small and marginal farmers. Involvement of women in strengthening the Community Seed System would result into self reliance in seed related primary requirement. Our collaborative approach with IWMI and ICRAF complemented and added value to ongoing research priorities of natural resource management. It resulted in developing/ standardizing the technologies including multiple use of water for raising crop-water productivity in Indo-Gangetic plains, use of geo-informatics in mapping agro-forestry, formulation and approval of National Agro-forestry Policy-2014, and capacity development through seven international trainings on Carbon Finance Market, Carbon Stock Assessment, and Carbon Trading Options, benefitting 62 participants. IFPRI played important role in the development of Indian agriculture through its policy research. Its studies with ICAR- NCAP and other partners on agricultural diversification and market linkages, led to sequence of reforms in agricultural marketing, and accelerated institutional innovations, such as contract farming, formation of self-help groups and FPOs. IFPRI recommended the beneficial impacts of agricultural research and development on growth and poverty alleviation and therefore, advocated increased investments in agricultural research institutions. IFPRI also provided policy support to ICAR in developing ‘ÍCAR Vision 2050’ which was released by the Prime Minister of India. A ‘Food Security Portal’ is launched in India by IFPRI which aims to share knowledge on the best practices related to food security, monitor and analyse prices ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 5 of key agricultural commodities for taking informed decision, and interact with the policy makers to improve food and nutrition security.