 Range grasses and legumes (i) Range grasses: Grasshopper (ii) Range legumes:— F. Quality parameters (i) Crude protein (%) (ii) Ash (%) (iii) Dry matter (%) (iv) Toxicity: HCN content in sorghum; oxalates in Napier×bajra hybrids 2. Characters on which data should be recorded in the IVT (i) Green forage yield (kg/ha)(In multi-cut crops, cut- wise and total of all cuts) (ii) Dry matter yield (kg/ha) (iii) Plant height (cm) (iv) Days to 50% flowering (v) Leaf:stem ratio (vi) Per day productivity (kg/day/ha) (vii) Crude protein content and in- vitro dry matter digestibility (at the selected centres) (viii) Reaction to diseases and insect-pests 68 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 3. Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I (i) Green forage yield (kg/ha) (In multi-cut crops, cut- wise and total of all cuts) (ii) Dry matter yield (kg/ha) (iii) Plant height (cm) (iv) Days to 50% flowering (v) Leaf :stem ratio (vi) Per day productivity (kg/day/ha) (vii) Crude protein content and in- vitro dry matter digestibility (at selected centres) (viii) Reaction to diseases and insect pests (ix) Reaction to abiotic stresses: Temperature, soil moisture, salinity, waterlogging and acidity 4. Additional characters on which data should be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) (i) All characters as at point No. 3 in the AVT-I (ii) Seed production trials (iii) Agronomy: Seed rate, response to irrigation and fertilizers, date of sowing (iv) Physiological parameters depending upon the situation (v) Rigorous testing against diseases and insect-pests (vi) Tolerance to abiotic stresses (Under controlled conditions) 5. Evaluation of perennial crop entries (i) In perennial crops, varietal trial is formulated in the first year and all the test entries are evaluated against national/zonal checks in different zones for the characters like green forage yield (GFY), dry matter yield (DMY), per day productivity, crude protein yield, crude protein (%) and other quality parameters; insect-pest tolerance for 3-4 consecutive years. (ii) Usually in range grasses and legumes, first year is taken as the establishment year, and subsequently data are recorded for 2-4 years. (iii) After completion of trial, based on the superiority over national/zonal check(s), respective contributing centres submit varietal proposal for identification and release at the national/zonal level. 6. Plot size, spacing and number of replications Trial Plot size Replications IVT 3.0m × 3.0m 3 AVT-I and II 4.0m × 3.0m 3 Spacing Berseem 25 cm Sorghum, maize, pearl millet, teosinte, lucerne 30 cm dinanath-grass, guar, cowpea, lablab- bean, oats Napier×bajra hybrid, guinea- grass, Setaria, signal, Congo signal grass 50 cm Stylos, butterfly- pea, siratro, other range grasses 40 cm 69 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 7.