 The bulk density is less in organic field soil, which is a sign of better soil aggregation and soil physical condition. Besides, the increased organic matter content, which supports the soil micro, meso- and macro-fauna, makes the soil a living body and has higher microbial activity, which helps in nutrient transformation and increased availability of these nutrients to the plants. Organic matter improves soil structure and increases water-holding capacity. A steady increase in positive balance of Zn, Cu, Fe and Mn was recorded in organic plots as compared to conventional system. It is well documented that there is a significant positive co-relation between organic matter and micronutrient availability. Profitability opportunities: The organic vegetables have high demand and it gets high premium price over conventionally grown vegetables. Organic vegetables fetch a premium price of 10 to 50% over conventional products. The cost of organic vegetable production is usually lower than that of conventional farming due to use of on-farm inputs. Studies have shown that common combination of lower input costs and favourable price premiums can offset reduced yield and make organic farming equally and often more profitable than conventional farms. Besides, use of botanical and bio-pesticides for insect-pest and disease management resulted in considerable reduction in variable cost. Studies on cotton also indicated that in organic cultivation over a period of six years, there is a reduction in cost of cultivation and increased gross and net return compared to conventional cotton cultivation. Thus, combination of low cost inputs and greater yield with premium price makes organic vegetable production equally/more profitable than conventional system. In India where 85% farmers are either small or marginal, any reduction/saving in cost of cultivation will go a long way in ensuring the sustainability of the system. Climate change mitigation: Vegetables are generally sensitive to environmental extremes. The tropical vegetable production environment is a mixture of conditions that varies with season and region. Organic farms have greater diversity due to mandatory crop rotations and preference for crop varieties with high tolerance to complex abiotic and biotic factors. Through intercropping and other practices, organic farms establish systems of functional biodiversity that stabilize the agro- ecosystem. Resilience to climate disasters is closely linked to farm biodiversity; practices that enhance biodiversity allow farms to mimic natural ecological processes, enabling them to better respond to change and reduce risk. By increasing resilience within the agro-ecosystem, organic agriculture increases its ability to continue functioning when faced with unexpected events such as climate change. Thus, organic agriculture suffers less damage compared to conventional farmers planting monocultures.