 Based on the surface DD, the research area may be divided into ﬁve categories: 0 to 0.83 percent (very low), 0.83 to 1.40 percent (low), 1.40 to 1.94 percent (moderate), 1.9 to 2.53 percent (high), > 2.53 percent (very high) ( Fig. 3 f). 3.7. Soil PH Nutrient availability, plant development, and production are all inﬂuenced by soil pH. The response of soil is primarily determined by the minerals that make it up. pH offers information on nutrient availability, phytotoxicity, and crop compatibility. For most plants, the ideal pH range is between 5.5 and 7.0. Acidic pH is less than 7, while alkaline pH is greater than 7. In the study area, the soil sample ranged from 7 to 8.3, and the average soil pH in the study region is about 7.4. majority of the study area covers the soil pH of 7.7, which represents a moderate level for agricultural suitabil- ity ( Fig. 4 a). The pH of the soil is inﬂuenced by the mineral com- position of the parent material and the weathering processes that that parent material has through. In humid settings, soil acidiﬁca- tion occurs over time as the products of weathering are leached by water running laterally or downwards through the soil, but in dry conditions, soil weathering and leaching are less intense, and soil pH is normally neutral or alkaline ( Yalew et al., 2016 ; Zolekar and Bhagat, 2014 ). 3.8. Soil N As it is one of the macronutrients necessary in large propor- tions for plant metabolism and growth, nitrogen is a key nutrient for plants. Absorption of ammonium (NH 4 + ) and nitrate (NO 3 −) ions Plants cannot acquire nitrogen from the atmosphere or the bedrock of the earth. The main source of nitrogen in the soil is at- mospheric nitrogen. It occurs in the atmosphere as N 2 and must be transformed before it can be used in the soil. Nitrogen is nat- urally present in the soil in organic forms as leftovers from plants and animals, but it is not immediately available to plants; it must ﬁrst be transformed by microbes before it can be utilized by plants ( Kadam et al., 2019 ; Badapalli et al., 2021 ). Nitrogen in soil miner- als is generally slow and only gives a little quantity of nitrogen to the soil. NH 4 + and NO 3 −, which are often present in the soil, are the inorganic forms of nitrogen that are accessible. Ammonium ions connect to the soil in a negatively charged cation exchange complex (CEC). The soil N in the research region spans from 90 to 120.98, with the majority of the study area covering soil N levels of 102 to 108 ( Fig. 4 b). 3.9. Soil P Phosphorus (P), second only to nitrogen, is frequently the greatest preventive nutrient for harvest and pasture productiv- ity. Phosphorus’ chief purpose in plants is to stock and transmit photosynthesis-generated energy for use in development and imi- tation. P cycles in the soil in a variety of ways. Root growth, winter hardiness, tillering, and maturity are all aided by adequate P lev- els.