 Integrating geospatial and AI tech- niques could accelerate the development of climate-resilient crops, although these methods produce complex datasets that challenge cur- rent analytical capabilities. Given India’s diverse topography and agri- cultural systems, examining resilience indicators seems vital for addressing this complexity. This review emphasized the importance of CRA in designing climate risk management strategies tailored to agri- culture in India. Our investigation also showed that CRA can advances key SDGs through social justice, environmental sustainability, and strategic partnerships, creating a pathway to a more equitable and resilient future. The GRACE findings identified northwestern India as a major hotspot for water scarcity, with negative trends of around −7.413 cm per year. Additionally, the analysis revealed that the Western Dry Region, Western Himalayan, and Gangetic Plain AEZ experienced the most significant declines in EWT compared to other AEZ. Establishing a knowledge repository for information sharing among researchers and planners is recommended to support programs aligned with India’s climate change action plan. Adopting CRA practices also underscores the need for empirical studies to identify contextually relevant strategies. Traditional farm-level adaptation measures must be validated for broader application. Moreover, challenges such as insufficient funding, inadequate monitoring, and a predominantly top-down institutional approach require further study. Farmers’ decisions to adopt CRA practices are influenced by their risk assessment, knowledge and access to technology, economic status, and family needs. Initiatives should, therefore, strengthen farmers’ decision-making capacities and systematically develop, validate, and disseminate adaptive knowledge. Support is needed for technology, in- stitutions, financing, and creating a knowledge base and transfer framework tailored to different AEZ and local conditions in a changing climate. Understanding and incorporating farmers’ perceptions into policy is essential for sustainable and effective climate action. Ensuring access to resources, stakeholder engagement, and robust monitoring are essential to promote food security and improve livelihoods. CRediT authorship contribution statement Satiprasad Sahoo: Writing – original draft, Resources, Project administration, Investigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Chiranjit Singha: Writing – original draft, Visualization, Validation, Software, Resources, Methodology, Investigation, Data curation, Conceptualization. Ajit Govind: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, Visualization, Supervision, Project administration, Investigation, Formal analysis. Armin Moghimi: reviewing, revising, and writing the paper and providing the geospatial maps. Consent to participate Informed consent was obtained from all interviewees.