 As per the analysis of the aggregate marks secured by admitted candidates in qualifying (10+2) examination during 2019-20, it emerged that the efforts of the ICAR-Education Division, by way of publicizing the scope and relevance, e-initiatives like online submission of application and payment of examination fee, online examination in CBT mode, online counseling and observance of “Education Day” in ICAR institutes and SAUs have started paying dividends in the form of growing attraction of talented youth towards Agricultural Education. This was evident by the startling revelation that out of 2,189 candidates admitted in 59 accredited Agricultural Universities through AIEEA (2019-20) conducted by the Council for UG admissions, 52% candidates had secured 80% and above marks in their qualifying Intermediate Board Examinations. (Fig.1). Fig.1. Marks profile of candidates admitted to UG programmes during 2019-20 It is encouraging that many talented students are offering agriculture as their subject of first or second choice for the profession. Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 5 1.5 New Initiatives in Agricultural Education The Govt. of India has decided to recast the country as a ‘knowledge economy’ by making higher education a top national agenda. Agricultural education has to evolve in sync with the fast changing national and international scenario and facilitate human capacity for developing self-motivated professionals and entrepreneurs. ICAR with the assistance of World Bank and Govt. of India, on a 50:50 cost sharing basis, has embarked upon an ambitious National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) by investing on infrastructure, competency and commitment of faculty, and attracting talented students to agriculture with a total cost of US$ 165 million (~ ` 1100 crores) with the major objectives like accentuation of the relevance and quality of higher agricultural education in selected AUs, student and faculty development, improvement in learning outcomes, employability and entrepreneurship and enhancement of institutional and system management effectiveness. To make the agricultural education more need-based, multi-pronged efforts are being undertaken by the Council. Realizing that the system should move from the Land-Grant to a “World Grant” pattern, the V Dean’s Committee has recommended new curricula, courses and contents that have been designed to duly inform the students of the new global initiatives, such as Global Green Economy; Knowledge Economy; Global Zero Hunger Challenge; UN International Year themes viz. International Years for Pulses, Family Farmers and Small holder Farmers, Soil and Water; Sustainable Development Goals, 2030; and International Agriculture and Development Challenge, 2050. Agriculture curricula are gradually required to put Agriculture in the middle of Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (“STEM”) to make it “STEAM”, where A means Agriculture.