 Promotion of textile based articles. 595 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy 8 : Enabling Policies 1. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. 2. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. 3. Popularization of Udhyan and Krishak Cards for widespread use of government incentives/ subsidies to farmers. 4. Establishment of wood bank at Shaharphatak and Chaubatiya areas to meet the present and future demand of germplasm in horticultural crops. 5. Implementation of effective and workable Nursery Act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the state. 6. Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. 7. Compulsion of Soil Health Card Scheme, Kisan Credit Card and Crop Insurance for all farmers. Strategy 9 : Marketing and value addition in specific agro-ecological region 1. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level (particularly vegetable/fruit/ floriculture). 2. Establishment of collection center of fruit/ vegetable processing unit (Saharfatak, Tarikhet, Dhauladevi) and its direct linkage with food processing industries for better prices. 3. Establishment of strong linkages with various stack holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. 4. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at Nyaypanchyat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. 5. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. 6. Establishment of cold room in different clusters e.g. Shaharfathak, Chaubatia, Dunagiri, Jageshwar areas. Strategy 10 :Online Management and Evaluation 1. Strengthening of internet connectivity. 2. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. 3. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. 4. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. 5. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. 596 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Zone: D (>2400 m) Strategy 1 : Productivity Enhancement Promotion of efficient water management 1. Promotion of efficient management of rain water harvesting with drip-fertigation system. 2. Creation of rain water harvesting structure in private and government buildings in all the villages of the zone. 3. Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, micro irrigation system in juvenile plants. Management of wild animal problem Promotion of plantation of wild fruits like Wild pear (Mehal) in Van Panchayat area for wild animal. Strengthening of farmers through skill training Organisation of regular trainings and feedback with experts regarding scientific methods of cultivation in each cluster. Adoption of farm mechanization 1.