 HS2 Product 1 Animals: Live 2 Meat and edible meat offal 3 Fish and crustaceans, molluscs, and other aquatic invertebrates 4 Dairy produce, birds’ eggs, natural honey, edible products of animal origin, not elsewhere speciﬁed or included 5 Animal-originated products, not elsewhere speciﬁed or included 6 Trees and other plants, live; bulbs, roots, and the like; cut ﬂowers and ornamental foliage 7 Vegetables and certain roots and tubers, edible 8 Fruit and nuts, edible; peel of citrus fruit or melons 9 Coffee, tea, mate, and spices 10 Cereals 11 Products of the milling industry; malt, starches, inulin, wheat gluten 12 Oil seeds and oleaginous fruits; miscellaneous grains, seeds and fruit, industrial or medicinal plants; straw and fodder 13 Lac; gums, resins, and other vegetable saps and extracts 14 Vegetable plaiting materials; vegetable products not elsewhere speciﬁed or included 15 Animal or vegetable fats and oils and their cleavage products, prepared animal fats, animal or vegetable waxes Source: Information from the website of UN Statistics (https://unstats.un.org/). Figure 2 Map showing growing areas of Shahi Litchi of Bihar. Source: Ofﬁcial website of registry of GI, India. 362 M. Bansal, R. Singh column 2 restricts the sample to district crops that receive GIs during the sample period. The coefﬁcient on GI is posi- tive and statistically signiﬁcant in column 1. In column 2, the coefﬁcient remains positive and statistically signiﬁcant, but does have a lower magnitude. The coefﬁcient in our pre- ferred speciﬁcation (column 2) implies that GI leads to an increase in the share of GI-tagged crop area in the district by 2%. These ﬁndings are consistent with an increase in the production of GI crops in response to GI registration. More- over, these results suggest that in the case of GIs of agricul- tural products, the market expansion effect overpowers the market power effect at an aggregate level. Conclusion Geographical indications have been seen as a tool for regional development by policymakers. They remove counterfeits from the market and thereby create a ‘new’ market for high- quality products by becoming a signal of quality for consum- ers. In the last decade, many Indian states have actively pur- sued GI tags for various agricultural products, keeping their farmers’ interests in perspective. Even with a rich history of geographical appellations and indications worldwide, research on GIs has been limited to case studies on speciﬁc products, along with a few theoretical models explaining their beneﬁts. Thus far, there seems to have been little evi- dence in literature empirically linking GIs to exports. Our results suggest that GIs do lead to a substantial increase in agricultural exports, at least in the Indian con- text; however, these beneﬁts materialise in settings with efﬁcient judicial institutions and better transportation infra- structure.