 Processing and Utilization of Poultry Waste in Ruminants The deep stacked poultry litter could replace 30–50% of concentrate mixture on N-basis when supplemented to quality roughage like naturally fermented straw, preparation as complete diet depending the production status of buffalo. ASSESSMENT OF MICRONUTRIENT STATUS IN ASSAM, KARNATAKA, KERALA, MADHYA PRADESH, TAMIL NADU AND WEST BENGAL Status of soil, plants, feeds, livestock was evaluated to assess the micronutrient availability to livestock in various agro climatic zones of these states. Trends of deficiencies in these agro climatic zones were ascertained. The bioavailability of the micro- and macro-elements, which hampers production of milk, meat, egg and other animal products was studied. Area specific mineral and trace element supplements were planned for raising livestock productivity and to check unnecessary loading of micronutrients. Assam: Upper Brahmaputra Valley zone and North Bank Plain Zone were surveyed. Ca, P, Mg and Cu were observed below critical level in some fodder. Deficiency for Cu, Fe and Mn was above the critical level in 100% fodder in both districts. Mo was recorded below toxic level. The serum inorganic phosphorus concentration was below critical level in lactating animals of all categories of farms. Calf, heifers and pregnant animals belonging to small, medium and large farms also showed deficiency in Dibrugarh district. Cu was also observed below critical level in certain group of animals in this district. In Tinsukhia district all categories of animals showed below critical level for serum inorganic phosphorus except pregnant animals of organized farms. Other minerals were observed well above the critical level. In North Bank Plain Zone Ca, P and Mg were observed below critical level for few fodders, whereas, Cu was observed below critical level in all fodder samples. The other mineral samples were well above the critical level. Karnataka: After assessing the micronutrient deficiency in different agro climatic zones of Karnataka, area specific mineral salts were advocated. For cows yielding up to 10 liters of milk/day most of the trace mineral requirement could be met through feeding good quality green fodder along with concentrate. However, requirements of Ca and Mg could not be met, and had to be supplemented through specific mineral salts. The overall minerals retention was better in cows supplemented with minerals through inorganic source. Strategic supplementation of micronutrients through locally available green fodders, which are good source of most trace minerals could be a cost effective approach. The survey work revealed that the major deficiency is of Ca, P, Cu and Zn in animals. Region specific mineral supplements were formulated on the basis of these results. Cataloguing of locally available feeds and fodder was done based on the micronutrient status, for strategic supplementation in deficient zones.