 They incorporate aesthetic design using red mud and charcoal. Cow dung is used for the ﬁnishing purpose due to its ﬁne texture. Small size of plant based particulates suspended within cow dung is responsible for its ﬁne texture and hence suitability for ﬁnishing application. Particulates within horse dung are com- paratively large compared to cow dung. Size of particulates plays an important role in animal dung use (Satankar et al., 2018). Fresh cow dung and red soil taken in ratios of 1:2 by volume is uniformly mixed for producing the ﬁnishing paste. Further water equal to the volume of cow dung is added to provide coat consistency adhering to the spatula test. The paste is manually applied on the dry surface of the wall as per aesthetic requirements of the household. While performing wall ﬁnish, paste is applied from bottom to top. The patches and cracks on the walls are also repaired using this paste. Finally a tint of water is also applied to obtain a smooth ﬁnish. Encyclopedia of Renewable and Sustainable Materials, Volume 1 doi:10.1016/B978-0-12-803581-8.11150-6 936 The wall depicted in Fig. 3(a) is manually ﬁnished by hand. The saturated red coarse-cow dung soil immingle is impressed with a design shown in Fig. 3(b). The design is made by smallest ﬁngers of both hands joined together at their tips. This in turn results in the formation of the crests and troughs. Once plaster saturates, the water ﬂows down the crests and passes along the troughs to reach the bottom without harming the underlying immingle plastered on to the stone walls. This patterning prevents wear due to precipitation. SCMI for Rural Household Construction Composites manufactured from horse dung (Equus family) and local clayey soil is used to manufacture low load bearing structures (such as shelves as shown in Fig. 4) within households. Here the composites contain equal quantities of horse dung and soil. This technology is inherited by local “Santhi” tribal women of this region under study. The technology is limited and performed within the areal expanse of Marwar within which Marwari breed horses sustain (ICAR-NRCE, 2017). The existence of this local Equus breed provides an insight that people from ages were aware of the properties of Marwari equine ordure. The Santhi community people believe that ordure have medicinal properties which prevent respiratory, microbial and other contagious diseases. The similar mixture also ﬁnds its application in manufacturing grain storage containers. Equus dung thus ﬁnds its application in manufacture of load bearing structures and ﬂexural members. The horse dung composites also have clayey soil in them. These soils are excavated from local ponds. These water harvesting structures deposit materials due to chemical weathering of rocks. The soil is thus characterized by high content of MgO, SiO2 and Na2O (Satankar et al., 2017). Found in large chucks, the pond soil is soaked in water for a day.