 Starch with relatively slow and incomplete digestion has lower glycemic load and insulin demand. This may lead to increased satiety and higher levels of resistant starch (RS); both are physiologically useful. Resistance starch (RS), with its functional food characteristics, is one such food ingredient, has the potential for not being digested quickly in the digestive system, make them essential food with the changing lifestyle. Banana, with its higher quantity of starch and resistant starch offers a greater extraction of starch other than conventional sources. Basil seed suspended banana based ready to serve drinks Commercially banana RTS with basil seed suspension is not available. Basil seeds are used as diuretic, antipyretic, antispasmodic and stomachic. The complication in suspending basil seeds is that, due to density differences with beverage, it is common tendency for seeds to either settle at the bottom or to float at the top. The proper suspension of soaked basil seeds in the beverage requires addition of suspension agents. The process involves slicing and pulping edible portion of banana followed by enzymatic treatment to get the clarified juice, standardization and pasteurization, to which soaked basil seeds were suspended. Technology was identified to keep them suspended uniformly in banana based ready to serve (RTS) drink. With the technology the seed were in suspended state in banana RTS for more than 6 months without any contamination. Glucose/Glucose syrup from banana Glucose is a type of sugar, that we get from foods (especially starchy foods) and our body uses it for energy. Usually corn is major plant source for starch extraction, which can be further converted into glucose (Liquid or powder). On exploration of other starchy biological sources for glucose extraction, unripe banana turned out to be a promising source. Green banana pulp Banana powder Indian Horticulture 38 contains up to 70–80% starch on a dry weight basis, a percentage comparable to that in the endosperm of corn grain and the pulp of white potato. Banana starch has a great potential, both from its digestion and functional properties, to have application in processed foods and become a commercially viable starch product. Further, by conversion of the obtained starch from unripe banana into glucose by acid/ enzymatic digestion can supplement the commercially available liquid and powdered glucose in the market. Additionally, the availability of banana glucose in market shelves can give a choice of versatility to the consumers. Banana fruit concentrated syrup as natural sweetener Fruit syrup from dates, lemon, orange, grape etc., is a common product in shelves of Indian market. Being the leading producer of banana, banana syrup can also find its place in super market. By simple concentration of enzyme clarified banana juice, can yield us banana syrup with 65°Brix.