 No works shall be commenced or liability incurred in connection with it until, - ●administrative approval has been obtained from the appropriate authority in each case; ●sanction to incur expenditure has been obtained from the competent authority; ●a properly detailed design has been sanctioned; ●estimates containing the detailed specifications and quantities of various items have been prepared on the basis of the Schedule of Rates maintained by CPWD or other Public Works Organisations and sanctioned; ●funds to cover the charge during the year have been provided by competent authority; ●tenders invited and processed in accordance with rules; ●work order issued. Procedure for execution of works: The broad procedure to be followed for execution of works under its own arrangements shall be as under: ●KVK should strictly follow the procedure laid out by the ICAR for execution of works. ●Preparation of detailed design and estimates should precede any sanction for works. ●No work shall be undertaken before issue of administrative approval and expenditure sanction by the competent authority on the basis of estimates framed. 94 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●Open tenders will be called for works costing ` 5 lakh and above, and limited tenders will be called for works costing less than ` 5 lakh. ●Execution of contract agreement or award of work should be done before commencement of the work. ●Final payment for work shall be made only on the basis of the certificate of the officer-in charge of work after the satisfactory execution of work, in the prescribed format given below: “I …………………..……, Executing Officer of (Name of the Work), am personally satisfied that the work has been executed as per the specifications laid down in the Contract Agreement and the workmanship is upto the standards followed in the Industry.” The guidelines for execution of works are as under: (a) The plinth area of the various buildings of KVK e.g. administrative building, Trainees hostel, Staff quarters etc. must be as per the ICAR norms issued from time to time. (b) A master plan for whole of the KVK has to be got approved by the ICAR. For this purpose NGO can hire the services of qualified architect. (c) The architect will also develop the detailed drawing for various buildings of the KVK. All the drawings have to be certified by the architect. (d) The architect to be selected shall be by the open competition. (e) For purpose of issue of Administrative approval and estimates sanction for taking up the work, the NGO shall submit a preliminary estimate based on the rates approved by CPWD, State PWD duly prepared by the architect/engineer. (f) All the work of KVK will be executed as per the standard specification of CPWD/State PWD. Any deviation if needed to be got approved by ICAR. (g) The work shall be executed following CPWD/State PWD procedure and manual and supervised by Architect/qualified engineer.