 Enhanced pest and disease monitoring: Drones and image analysis powered by AI can detect early signs of diseases or pest infestations, allowing for targeted interventions (e.g. spraying of specific pesticides, biocontrol agents etc.). It can reduce the need for repetitive and broad applications of pesticides and applications of broad-spectrum pesticides, which often cause disease and pest resistance, resurgence and pesticide residue problems. Climate resilience: Advanced weather forecasting tools and decision support systems enable grape growers to prepare for extreme weather events and adjust practices in real-time to mitigate risks. For example, one month forecast of presence or absence of rain can help grape growers to take decision on forward pruning dates to avoid downy mildew period coinciding with rains. Accurate hailstorm forecast can help grape growers to cover their vineyards with hail nets. Labour efficiency: Most of the operations in vineyards are time-dependent and need specialised skills as well as availability of skilled labour to carry out timely operations. Automation in pruning, thinning, irrigation, disease and pest management, and harvesting can reduce dependence on scarce labour, making timely vineyard operations possible. Yield predictability and market intelligence: Data analytics platforms can enable better forecasting of grape yields based on historical data, weather conditions, and current vineyard health, reducing variability and improving market planning and intelligence. Global status Globally, countries including Spain, France, Australia, the United States of America and many other countries have made significant strides in digital viticulture. Among ground-based monitoring platforms, ‘Televitis mobile lab’ is a manually driven vehicle developed by the Televitis Research Group, University of La Rioja in Spain. It is a portable sensing platform equipped with various sensors, including an RGB camera, a near-infrared sensor, hyperspectral imaging, and a thermal camera. These sensors are linked to a GPS and an industrial computer, allowing for real-time data or image collection, while the platform moves at speeds ranging from 2 to 7 km/h. This platform was used to access various vineyard Sensors installed in a vineyard for monitoring vineyard micro-climate Indian Horticulture 16 model, and manage. Sensors collect spatial data, which the EV software processes to guide informed management decisions, like variable-rate fertilization based on vineyard conditions. Indian scenario In India, the adoption of digital viticulture is still in its early stages, but there have been notable efforts. ICAR-National Research Centre for Grapes (NRCG) has initiated studies on intelligent viticulture, focusing on the use of ground-based sensors and satellite imagery to monitor the vineyards for mapping grapevine health and developing automated advisory system.