 Keeping this in view, the ICAR, through the Directorate of Publications and Information brings out a number of periodicals i.e., magazines, newsletters, bulletins, brochures, and reports, matching with international standards, both in English and Hindi for the benefit of progressive farmers, scientists, extension workers, students and the general public. Now, the DIPA has made inroads into e-publishing in a big way and has recently released four CDs. PUBLICATIONS English Editorial Unit During 2002-2003, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research brought out 50 publications in English including Handbook of Animal Husbandry, Textbook of Plant Nematology, Fish Processing, Field Crop Production and Vegetables, Tubercrops and Spices. Besides DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2001-2002, a number of miscellaneous and ad hoc publications like Drought Management Strategies, Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture I, ICAR Handbook of Disciplinary Matters etc. were also brought out clearing the backlog. In addition to books, the DIPA also brings out four periodicals regularly. The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences, Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture and three quarterly newsletters, viz. ICAR News, ICAR Reporter and ARIS News. The two monthly scientific journals—The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, which are indexed and abstracted internationally continued to maintain the standard both in quality and content. Indian Farming, a popular monthly magazine, brought out two special issues, one on the occasion of World Food Day (16 October) and another for International Agronomy Congress (26-30 November 2002), Indian Horticulture, a semi-technical quarterly, brought out a special issue on Floriculture (Jan-Mar 2002). ICAR News, a quarterly newsletter disseminates research information pertaining to innovations made and new technologies developed both at the institutes and the headquarters. It also covers profiles of the institutes to get a first hand information about their activities. It has a wide readership and is circulated both in India and abroad. ICAR Reporter, a in- house quarterly newsletter covers all important activities of the Council such as meetings, seminars, conferences and workshops and publishes reports. It also covers reforms, personnel, international linkages etc at the ICAR headquarters and the institutes. The Council brought out ARIC News, a quarterly magazine on information and communication technology regularly. Hindi Editorial Unit During the year under report, Hindi Editorial Unit brought out 11 publications including books, bulletins and reports, besides its regular periodicals, viz. Kheti Shri Ajit Singh, Union Agriculture Minister, releasing four CDs developed by DIPA on electronic publishing.