 There is a need for identifying short-duration linseed varieties with adjustment in sowing time to mitigate the production drop that is caused due to co-incidence of pre-kharif monsoon showers. There is ample scope with export potential to cater the demand of organic flex in the foreign markets as most of the North-eastern states have already been declared organic states. Therefore, standardization of organically cultivated linseed becomes an important technological intervention to be highlighted upon where farmers could fetch higher dividends from organic linseed cultivation. Setting up of processing units for oil and fibre extraction and value addition of flaxseed has to be emphasized and targeted. Sensitization and popularization programmes need to be intensified on the importance of this crop in their cropping systems, its economic returns as well as its nutritional benefits. SUMMARY In the recent past, the Government of India has taken due importance and emphasis for expansion of oil seed crops to non-conventional areas like the North-eastern states. Owing to the favourable climatic conditions, the region offers ample scope for introducing new crops like linseed. The crop is at its infancy stage in the region as well as in Arunachal Pradesh. Farmers have very less knowledge about the wide range of its applications, its health benefits, cultivation practices, processing, value addition and lastly its economic value. With the versatility of this crop, there is viability for its extensive cultivation in the region with the goal of crop diversification and enhancing revenue generation. Hence, standardization of its cultivation practices specifically organic production, selection of appropriate varieties, sensitization and dissemination of processing technologies and value addition are some of the areas to be emphasized upon to achieve its wide acceptance in the region in near future. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bmakdohicar@gmail.com Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 24 February 2023 Ryegrass: A quality fodder for animals Brijesh Kumar, Magan Singh*, Deepak Kumar, Sandeep Kumar and Rakesh Kumar ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Ryegrass is a highly digestible, palatable forage and is suitable for animals with high nutritional requirements, including lactating dairy cattle. Ryegrass with good soil fertility provides rapid growth with regeneration capacity during periods of cool temperatures and when sufficient levels of soil moisture are available. The annual ryegrass requires well-fertile aerated soils, but has a remarkable ability to adapt to a wide range of soils. For ryegrass cultivation, soil should have high water retention capacity and a pleasant edaphic environment.