 For further interaction, please write to: Vinod Kumar (Principal Scientist), ICAR-National Research Center on Litchi, Muzzafarpur, Bihar 842 002. *Corresponding author’s email: vinod3kiari@yahoo.co.in 1. Mating pair, 2. Freshly laid eggs, 3. Egg clusters, 4. Nymphal stages in gregarious phase 1 2 3 4 Indian Horticulture 12 P K Singh*, Zakir Hussian, Ramesh Kumar Yadav, Selvakumar R, I M Mishra, B S Tomar, Neelam Patel, Shiv Kumar Yadav, Ramesh Kumar, Jugender Kumar and Anil Kumar Research T his unique nutrient rich variety has been developed by Center for Protected Cultivation Technology and Division of Vegetable Science, ICAR-IARI, Pusa, New Delhi for cultivation under protected conditions/structure. It is indeterminate in growth habit and first harvesting starts at 75-80 days after transplanting and continues up to 270-300 days depending upon the climatic condition of the area. Fruits are round, born in truss (9-10 average flower truss per plant), golden yellow in colour, thin pericarp having smooth surface and uniform ripening. It is rich in vitamin A and vitamin C and acts as protective food. The fruits contain 13.02 mg/100 g fresh weight carotene, 18.3 mg/100 g fresh weight ascorbic acid, 0.33% acidity and TSS 90 brix and carotene content (13.02 mg/100 g). Pusa Golden Cherry Tomato-2: New promising yellow cherry tomato for protected cultivation Cherry tomatoes are a different group of tomato. This tomato is mostly used raw in salad. The fruit bearing habit is in bunches i.e. called truss and fruit shape varies from round, oblong and pear shape. Fruit size varies from 2–15 g. Fruits are of different colours varying from dark red, red, pink, yellow, golden yellow to orange. Golden yellow cherry tomatoes look very fascinating. Pusa Golden Cherry Tomato-2 is the first indigenous golden yellow cherry tomato variety suitable and proposed for naturally ventilated polyhouse/low cost protected cultivation from ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi. It will cater to the needs of the people who are looking for protective food. Pusa Golden Cherry Tomato-2 January–February 2022 13 The average fruit weight is about 7-8 g with approximate average fruit yield of 3-4.5 kg/plant with yield potential of 9-11 t/1000 m2 . Seed should be sown in insect proof nursery/in multi- celled plug tray by using soil-less medium in July-August and 25-30 days old seedlings should be transplanted. In greenhouse, crop should be vertically trained and regularly pruned for better growth and yield. Variety is responsive to normal soil fertility status. Added pollination is required in greenhouse during winter season and done by using electric vibrator or by air blower in morning hours on alternative days. Seed (10 g) is sufficient for growing a commercial crop in 1000 m2 green house. Cultivation Climate It requires relatively warm season for its growth and development. The ideal night and day temperature for fruit set and colour development is 20-25°C.