 Losses vary depending on growth stage of the crop infected, type of disease, plant part affected and disease intensity. Losses due to fungal diseases are more compared to bacterial and viral diseases. There are more than a dozen major diseases that considerably affect cultivation of various millets like sorghum, pearl millet, and small millets (finger, foxtail, kodo, proso, little, barnyard and browntop millets). Grain mold, stalk rot and anthracnose in sorghum, downy mildew in pearl millet and sorghum, blast in pearl millet and finger millet, rust in sorghum, pearl millet and foxtail millet, ergot in sorghum and pearl millet, and smuts in all millets are economically important diseases. These diseases occur during different crop growth stages on physiologically and economically important plant parts. They need to be efficiently managed to improve yield and quality of millets. Diseases Seedling diseases: Root rot of seedling, damping off, anthracnose and seedling blight appear during seedling stage. Severe infection damages the roots and tender leaves, and often kills the seedling. Plant stand in the affected plot becomes less which gives a patchy look to the crop in the field. Small millets grown in poorly drained acidic soil are often affected by damping off and seedling root rot. Sorghum seedling may be infected by anthracnose and seedling blight, and depending on intensity of infection the seedling may die prematurely. Grain diseases: Many pathogens infect florets or developing grains, the most important part of the millets crops. One such most damaging disease is grain mold of sorghum. The others are ergots and smuts that appear on most of the millets grain. Production losses due to grain mold ranges from 30–100% in sorghum depending on cultivar and prevailing weather. Mold infection becomes visible in pink, orange, gray, white, or black colour fungal bloom on the grain surface. The disease reduces seed value of grain, nutritive value of food and feed, and cooking quality of the grain. Molded grains often contain mycotoxins which may be harmful to human, animal and poultry birds. Ergot or sugary disease is a serious limiting factor in production of hybrid seed. The disease is commonly observed in sorghum and pearl millet. First visible symptom is exudation of honeydew like droplets, which are thick, sticky or viscous, pinkish to brownish in colour and sweet in taste. Infected florets do not produce grain and other grains from infected panicles show reduced germination. Yield loss varies from 10–80% in sorghum and up to 50–70% in pearl millet hybrids depending on severity. The pathogen survives off seasons in the infected panicles left in the field or via sclerotia that are mixed with the seed during threshing and processing. Smut is a fungal disease that converts parts or whole of an earhead into fungal structure.