 The Chairman will have an interactive meeting with the Institute Management Committee to be convened by Director of the institute under review. The final report thereafter will be submitted to the DG, ICAR. Processing of the Report by concerned ADG in the ICAR. Preparation of a note on the Council's comments and recommendations. Submission of the note and taking approval of the DDG/DG/GB on the technical recommendations. The recommendations that involve policy directions will be dealt separately on file, after vetting by the section/division, will be brought to GB as a separate agenda item after approval by the Chairman, GB. Recommendations to the concerned Director for implementation. 13 Annexure III Background Information to be Provided to QRT A. Institutes/NRCs/PDs/BureauxiAlCRPs 1. Historical Background. 2. Mandate and objectives of the Institute/Project Directorate/NRC/ Bureau/AICRP 3. Organization and structure: An Organogram be given along with the scientific, technical and supporting staff in the various Divisions including the qualifications of the scientific staff. This information needs to be provided in relation to the staff ratio suggested by the Council. 4. Previous QRT report and action taken on its recommendations along with implementation report. A copy of the previous report may be appended with action taken on the recommendations on the basis of the approval by the Governing Body of the ICAR. 5. Research programmes of the institutes for the period under review (year-wise), ongoing and as envisaged in the perspective plan. This information may be given Division/programme-wise. 6. Major achievements of research; division-wise and in a summarized form for the whole institute or programme. 7. Production, process, technologies developed by the institute with credited scientists. 8. Infrastructure and physical facilities planned and developed during the period under review commensurate with the mandate. 9. Human resource development efforts for different categories of staff. 10. Budget and Finance: Allocations to various heads be given along with the details and budget for the years covering the review period along with the status report on resource generation and project-based budgeting implementation. 11. SWOT Analysis of the Institute/Project. Management 12. Frequency of meetings of the Management Committee and highlights of important recommendations and their implementation. 13. Staff Research Committees and RACs recommendations and action taken on their recommendations. 14. A report on the status of various O&M reforms. Staff Amenities 15. Facilities available for staff including housing in campus, travel office, education facilities for children, etc. 16. Participation of scientific staff in National and International Conferences (give details and problems and suggestions for the future). 17. Sports, recreational research and vocational health facilities to the staff. 14 Linkage 18. Collaboration with others a.