 Loans against negotiable warehouse receipts for providing additional liquidity of money to small farmers, strengthening of storage facilities in the production centres and promotion of integrated cold chains has been believed to bring positive results in mitigation of post-harvest losses especially in the rural India. In conjunction with eNAM scheme this scheme is a boon for potato farmers who are now in a position to sell their produce at the right time and price. Imperative role of KVKs Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) are the biggest success story in Indian National Agricultural Research and Extension System during recent decades. At national level we are proud to have 714 KVKs. In addition to their mandated activities of technology assessment, refinement and demonstration, our KVKs are also carrying out a large number of extension activities including all crops and farm activities including the potato crop. KVKs have been playing vital role in dissemination of technical knowhow and technologies to farmers. Potato farmers being one of the most responsive to the extension stimulus are expected to benefit the most in terms of enhancing their farm income with the active support of KVK system. For further interaction, please write to: Dr R Dr R Dr R Dr R Dr Rajesh K R ajesh K R ajesh K R ajesh K R ajesh K Rana ana ana ana ana (Principal Scientist), ICAR ATARI Zone I, Ludhiana, Punjab. E-mail: rkrana2004@yahoo.com Indian Horticulture 50 Brajesh Nare and Sukhwinder Singh Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Mechanization in potato cultivation Potato is a crop with huge output per unit area. Production, handling and processing of potato takes lot of time and energy if all the operations are completed manually or with the help of animal drawn equipments. A number of efficient farm machineries and equipments are available in India to carry out timely field operations like seedbed preparation, fertilizer application, planting, weeding, earthing, digging, grading and seed treatment. Therefore, in this era of competitive agriculture, for efficient use of expensive inputs like seeds and fertilizers, farmers should opt for precise application of the farm inputs through mechanization and should use potato planters, fertilizer applicators, weeders, diggers, graders and other available machines. Some of these machines are expensive and are not in the reach of small farmers. In cases such group of farmers can purchase the machine or an individual farmer can have it and go for custom hiring for more returns. Similarly, cooperatives can be useful for having processing machineries at village or cluster levels. P OTATO is one of the most important food crops in developed as well as developing countries. Production wise it ranks third among the major food crops after wheat and rice in the world. Lot of energy is required for production and processing of potatoes due to bulky and watery nature.