 Presence of lard in ghee: Lard is an adulterant fat, which is commercially available in the refined form. A methodology was developed to isolate DNA from ghee containing lard as an adulterant. Developed methodology has the potential to confirm the presence of lard in ghee to the tune of minimum 10%. Detection of aflatoxin M1: An electrochemical aptasensor for detection of trace amounts of aflatoxin M1 (AFM1) was developed. This was achieved by sequentially layering dithiodipropionic acid, streptavidin and biotinylated-tetraethylene glycol-aptamer. Peak current in square wave voltammogram was inversely related to logarithmic concentration of AFM1. Dynamic range of sensor was 1 ppt to 105ppt AFM1. Large scale production of Lactobacillus biomass: Bioprocess for large scale production of Lactobacillus biomass was developed that could be used as starters/ functional supplements for value addition of fermented and non-fermented dairy products. Goat Gaddi goat milk had higher level of fat (%) and total solids (%) in comparison to local goat milk. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 97 Antioxidant capacity was highest in Gaddi goat milk whey (26.27±1.40 mg/100 ml) and casein fractions (38.00±2.36 mg/100 ml). Formulation and processing conditions for milk based bread was standardized and the shelf-life of ready to eat products such as Milk Rings and Milk Slices was determined. Camel Camel milk sugar free lassi was prepared using routine starter cultures and NCDC-167 and NCDC- 263 with different concentrations and its incubation was standardized for different time intervals. Saffron, rose and pineapple flavours were found to be acceptable. Yak Value addition of different yak milk products like churpi (loose cheese), paneer, low fat paneer, designer paneer, churkam (milk candy), dahi, ghee, lassi and cream were carried out. Vegetable extended paneer, enrobed paneer finger, ginger flavoured yak milks’ churkham are new addition value added yak milk product. Meat Sheep Vacuum packaged meat snacks: In a study conducted for enhancing meat snacks life at ambient storage, one batch was packaged aerobically while another batch was vacuum packaged in laminate (12 micron PET+ 55 micron nylon polymers). The evaluation for physicochemical, microbiological and sensory attributes revealed that lipid oxidation and tyrosine values were lower for vacuum packaged snacks. Throughout the storage the microbial counts were within the acceptable limits. The vacuum packaging could be useful in enhancing the keeping quality of the mutton snacks at ambient storage. and proportion of different ingredients used for the product were standardized after doing intensive trials and undertaking sensory evaluation studies. Filled-in retort pouches were sealed with impulse sealing machine. For mix veg pork curry the F0 of 12.86 mim was adequate. Total process time was 57.33 min.