 Most of the apple growers lost crop of late cultivars ‘Maharaji’, Granny Smith and Golden Delicious and Red Delicious. Over-mature fruits on the trees developed watercore disorder. Loss of harvested apple: Most of the apple growers deserted their harvested fruit in orchards, lying on the floor, and there was also damage to the packed fruits Cherry, peach, plum and late blooming cultivars of almond were badly affected by 6th April 2017 snowfall whereas, apple crop escaped at ICAR-CITH, Srinagar January–February 2022 23 boxes in piles, which led to bruising and injury to the packaged fruit. Transport: This untimely snowfall affected transportation of fruit from the valley to different mandis of the country, and the fruit from these mandis to neighbouring countries as well. Thousands of apple-laden trunks got stranded on the Srinagar-Jammu highway due to the closure of the NH-44 by the heavy snowfall. The fruit boxes in stranded trucks on the highway caused massive losses to apple growers as well as traders due to the rotting of fruit inside boxes. Effect on production in forthcoming years Loss of trees in orchards: Direct loss to the temperate fruit industry. Loss of branches on trees: In apple trees, fruit is borne on spurs. Spurs are short, strong, stubby, compressed stems and are produced on more than two years old wood and maybe grow a quarter inch each year and produce quality fruit for 5-6 years and remain productive for 8-10 years. Like apples, most temperate fruit crops produce fruits on spur. The fruiting area was also reduced on the tree due to mechanical damage. In trees, lots of fruiting spurs are damaged and loss of spur ultimately means loss of fruit. Loss of branches and complete trees will affect temperate fruit production during the coming years. Watercore in Granny Smith (left) and Coe Red Fuji (right) - Breakdown of cells around vascular bundles and core and accumulation of sorbitol, induced when over-mature fruits were exposed to cold after 7th November 2019 snowfall at ICAR-CITH, Srinagar Mechanical damage to different temperate fruit crops at ICAR-CITH, Srinagar due to untimely snowfall on 7th November 2019 Apple Plum Almond Apricot Peach Cherry Mechanical damage to feathered nursery plants of apple at ICAR-CITH, Srinagar due to untimely snowfall on 7th November 2019 Indian Horticulture 24 Suggestions to mitigate the effect of untimely snowfall Flowering time yy After the snowfall, induce more bee colonies in the orchard to ensure sufficient pollination in the remaining flowers. yy Spray of plant growth regulators and micronutrients in particular GA3, B, Zn, etc. can improve fruit set under adverse climatic conditions. November snowfall Before snowfall yy If snowfall is predicted in November, complete of harvesting of late-maturing apple cultivars and spray of 5-10% urea on the tree to accelerate the leaf senescence process should be done.