 Perceived behavioural control (PBC): PBC is manifested by perceived efﬁcacy and perceived resources (Chin et al., 2016; Zeweld et al., 2018; Despotovic et al., 2019). Perceived efﬁcacy depicts the farmers' perception of possessing sufﬁcient skills and knowledge for adoption of SAPs. Perceived resources reﬂect the farmers' perception of the availability of economic and infrastructural resources for adoption of SAPs. Perceived efﬁcacy showed a statistically signiﬁcant and positive relationship with PBC (Fig. 4), which is showing a statistically insignif- icant and positive relationship with behavioural control, implying that farmers' perception for possession of sufﬁcient knowledge and informa- tion motivates them to adopt SAPs. Surprisingly, perceived resources, i.e., availability of economic resources and infrastructural facilities showed a negative and statistically signiﬁcant association with attitude and perception (Fig. 4). Our ﬁndings via interaction with farmers depict that the major reason for negative association of perceived resources with farmers' attitude and perception lies in the farmers’ preference to spend the resources, specially money on fulﬁlling other needs like education, marriage and health. Focused group discussion with the farming com- munity implied that the availability of economic resources motivates them towards a mechanized form of agriculture and buying high-yielding variety seeds. It contrasts with the ﬁndings of Zeweld et al. (2017) and Elahi et al. (2021), who found the statistically insigniﬁcant but positive impact of perceived resources on adoption of row planting by farmers in Ethiopia. Their study stated that the availability of money, labour, and time encourages farmers for adopting sustainable practices. It signiﬁes the need to formulate region-speciﬁc agricultural policy as the farmers of diverse regions possess different behaviour towards adoption of SAPs. Institutional: Institutional factors showed a negative and statistically signiﬁcant association with the adoption of SAP. The provision of credit, subsidy, loans, and incentives is indirectly showing statistically signiﬁ- cant and negative associations with the adoption of SAPs. Farmers who possess credit facilities i.e., Kisan credit cards are not motivated towards adoption of sustainable agricultural practices (Fig. 4). However, provi- sioning of credit helps in strengthening the resource base, stabilizing the production, minimizing the loss against any natural calamities, and facilitating the adoption of new technologies and sustainable practices, as mentioned by Bisht et al. (2020). Despite this, our interaction with farmers showed that they prefer to spend their credit amount on their other needs such as health, education, and marriage.