 l Schemes on Women in Agriculture, Plant Clinic, Farmer Service Centre and toll free Agriculture helpline for farmers were set up. Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar l New programme on Biophysics initiated in the College of Basic Sciences and Humanities from the academic session 2002–03. l Revision in various degree programme have been made as per the guidelines of the ICAR. l Practical oriented programme on the lines of practical crop production developed by the university main campus were introduced in other Colleges of the University. Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur l Course curricula for various teaching programmes were revised to support country’s needs and emerging international scenario. l State of the art educational technologies were introduced for curriculum delivery. l University organized 8 summer/winter schools/short courses benefiting 199 faculty members in their career advancement pursuits. l Two hundred and twenty faculty members were deputed for various Summer/ Winter Schools, Workshops, Seminars and Conferences held across various SAUs and ICAR institutes. Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani l Academic blocks which were in dilapidated conditions were renovated through catch up support of ICAR. l Ninety-eight faculty members were deputed for different national and international trainings. l Around 130 faculty members were trained in Teaching Technology by conducting workshops. Sher–e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu l Being a newly established university, work of selection of site, preparation of site plan, and structural design were finalized during the year. l Renovation of old laboratory buildings and old hostels at R.S.Pura was initiated. Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai l Syllabus finalized and adopted as per the VCI guidelines. Students at Computer Laboratory Scene of AGRIUNIFEST l AHRD Phase II: Dr J.C. Katyal DDG (Education) informed on the ICAR concept paper on AHRD Phase II for World Bank support. Both DEA and World Bank have agreed in principal to support the project. l To inculcate cultural fellowship and sportsman spirit arrangements have been finalized to hold All-India Inter Agricultural University cultural meet (AGRIUNIFEST) and Fourth All-India Inter University Games and Sports meet. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 154 University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad l Following the recommendations of three Deans Committees, the University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad introduced development programme to make agriculture in education better. l Under the revised curriculum, more emphasis was given to practical oriented courses. A few interdisciplinary courses were introduced to encourage multi- subject teaching-learning. l University encouraged excellence among teachers by deputing 120 teachers to participate in the national and international conferences, seminars etc.