 Encourage composite fish culture of different fish species at recommended stocking rates. Generally, six (6) species carp ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 202 culture is the most adopted one in Bihar- which includes Catla: Rohu: Mrigal: Silver carp: Common carp: Grass carp at the ratio 1.5:2:1.5:1.5:1.5:2. Introduce small indigenous fishes like pothia, mola, murrels (murrai), etc in fishpond. As, estimated 1 kg of small indigenous fishes contains 1000-fold more of vitamin content with respect to other large-sized culture fishes. Diversify candidate species for freshwater fish culture- Amur carp, Jayanti Rohu, Pacu, Mono sex Tilapia, Puntius gonionotus, Bighead carp, Magur, Pabda, giant river prawn etc. Construct polyhouse from low cost and locally available materials to grow adult prawns from post larvae in seasonal ponds. Polyhouse helps to maintain temperature when air temperature drops; hence considered beneficial for high-cost fishes like Macrobrachium rosenbergii (Giant river prawn). Post-stocking management Maintain water pH within 6.5-7.5. If the level lowers apply lime and if it tends to be in a higher end than optimum level apply gypsum. Avoid feeding when temperature drops to 10°C. Generally, fish growth minimizes from mid-November to February due to lower metabolic rate and regains back as the temperature rises. Monitor fishes by netting the pond once within 15 days and provide bath treatment using potassium permanganate solution. Whenever any unusual fish behaviour is noticed, take immediate precaution to overcome those. For example, when fishes start irregular movement and comes near surface water for gasping, such condition depicts low oxygen concentration in fishpond and immediate aeration is required. Fishes are more prone to common fish diseases of bacterial, fungal, parasitic, and viral such as tail or fin rot, dropsy, gill fluke, EUS and fungal. Therefore, an immediate measure to treat the fishes is ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 203 required thus it is advised to treat the pond with CIFAX @ 1l/ha just before the onset of winters. Also, apply potassium permanganate @ 3-5 kg/ha or limestone @ 150-200 kg/ha. Salt solution may also be treated in pond @ 250 kg/ha which proves beneficial in protecting fish against disease outbreak during winters. Fish based Integrated Farming System Horticulture - Duck based fish farming is considered the best model among all available options in Bihar for income generation round the year. Stocking density of ducks- 200-300 per ha, adequate to produce manure and serve as bio-aerator for fishpond. Biofloc farming Considered as new technology for farmers who does not possess land for pond construction. Minimal or zero water exchange system of fish farming thus utilizing wastewater. Suitable species for this farming system is Pangas, Magur, Kawai, Tilapia and Common carp. To construct biofloc set-up of 7 tanks of 4m dia and 1.5 m height, an amount of Rs. 7-8 lakh is required.