 Incentives Scheme: This scheme may be operated on financial year basis. The Officers who participate in this scheme will maintain a record of their work doing in Hindi during the reported period. One employee was awarded in this scheme. ICAR • In Council officers/staff having proficiency in Hindi are encouraged by the Secretary (ICAR) to do their work in Hindi and individual orders have been issued to them to do their maximum work in Hindi. • Total 129 institutes/centres of ICAR have been notified in the Gazette under Official Language Rule 10 (4). Besides, 16 sections of ICAR (Hqrs.) were notified under rule 8(4) to do their cent per cent administrative work in Hindi. • As per the Annual Programme, 4 meetings of the Joint O.L. Implementation Committees of DARE and ICAR were held under the chairmanship of Additional Secretary (DARE) and Secretary (ICAR). • Official Language Implementation committees were constituted in all Institutes/centers, and their meetings were held regularly. Proceedings of these meetings were reviewed at the ICAR (Hqrs.) and appropriate suggestions and instructions were given to the concerned institutes. • The quarterly progress reports were sent on-line to the Regional Implementation Office. The quarterly progress reports received from various institutes were reviewed and suggestions given to them for effective implementation. ICAR (Hqrs.) regularly participated in TOLIC’s meeting. • The employees were nominated regularly for Hindi language, Hindi typing and Hindi stenography training in every session. At ICAR (Hq), training in Unicode typing was also imparted by the Hindi Anubhag. • During the reporting period four Hindi workshops were organized for officers/staff of various categories. • Cash Awards were given to 10 officials for 2015- 16 at ICAR (Hq) for doing their maximum official work in Hindi under the cash award scheme of Official Language Department. • Hindi Chetna Mass was organized from 14 September to 13 October 2016. On this occasion an inspiring message from Union Agriculture Minister and Farmers Welfare was sent to all ICAR Institutes. The Director General of ICAR also appealed to make progressive use of Hindi at every level. various competitions were organized during Hindi Chetna Mass. • Under the Rajarshri Tandon Rajbhasha Purskar Yojana, 2014-15, given Institutes were awarded for doing their maximum work in Hindi. Competition organized during Hindi Chetna Mass 1. Big Institutes Award 1. Cenral Research Institute for Dryland First Agricuture, Hyderabad 2. Central Institute of Fisheries Second Education, Mumbai 2. Institutes/Centre of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region 1. Central Research Institute for First Integrated Pest Management, New Delhi 2. Central Island Agricultural Research Second Institute,Andaman & Nicobar 3. Institutes/Centre of ‘C’ Region 1. Central Institute of Fisheries First Technology, Cochin 2. Central Marine Fisheries Research Second Institute, Kochi S. Magazine Name of the Institute Award No. 1.