 Comprehensive information in a well categorized and systematic manner is made available on the platform. A detailed coverage of information on improved varieties of the major pulse crops is embedded in the portal in form of Varietal Information System (VIS) that allows users to retrieve information pertaining to a particular district of the country. Two images based interactive diagnostic tool-Disease and Pest Information (DPISP) and Weed Information System (WIS) on all major pulses are also integrated on the portal. Further, web portal also provides answers to the Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs) pertaining to all the 7 pulse crops. The web portal has integrated video modules developed by institute, feedback window, success stories, and institute publications on the home page of the web portal. It also provides links to other important agriculture related websites and web portals. The Hindi version of e dalhan gyan manch was published in public domain on 5th Sept. 2017 while the English version (e knowledge platform on pulses) was released on 5th September 2021 in public domain. The web portal is available at http://dalhangyanmanch.res.in/. The web portal had been visited by about 3.10 lakh users till date. Pulses Seed Hub Portal: ‛Pulses Seed Hub Portal’ was developed with the objective to provide farmers access to quality seed production information for pulses. These data would be pooled and processed to provide/retrieve centre-wise, variety-wise, crop-wise quality seed production individually and in combination. After designing the database, seed information system for pulses (Pulses Seed Hub Portal) has been developed, implemented and hosted on Institute webportal (https://iipr.icar. gov.in/iiprseedportal/). A prototype online software has been developed for retrieval of seed hub information using WAMP (Windows, Apache, Mysql and PHP) technology. Contents on detail of 150 seed hub centres, seed target, seed production, seed lifting, revolving fund, expenditure incurred, seed balance, etc. have been stored in digital format. Dashboard of the system contains real-time information on total users, total centres, total seed production and total seed availability. The users can search/ retrieve the desired information using various combinations of fields. The system assists farmers, researchers, exporters and policy makers in various decision making information pertaining to quality seed (Foundation, Certified and Truthfully Labelled) production (centre-wise, crop-wise and variety- wise). The additional feature of the system provides real time information on the seed availability for different varieties of seeds along with sources. Videos modules for information sharing Increased affordability of smart phones with people has given a major fillip to use of videos for promotion of new agricultural technologies, ideas, especially digital ones, are a relatively new technology.