 The major thrust, in future, will be on enhancing area of sorghum in non-traditional areas and greater emphasis on alternate uses of sorghum and its utilization as a major food, feed, fodder and fuel (bio-energy) for industrial utilization. Simultaneously, researchers are pursuing other avenues such as growing sorghum as a biofuel crop for which significant work has been done, in addition to promotion of sorghum as functional health food. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: aruna@millets.res.in CSV 49SS (Jaicar Raseela) Phule vasundhara Lorries carrying sweet sorghum awaiting their turn for unloading at Shree Ganesh Khand Udyog Sahkari Mandli Limited, Bharuch, Gujarat for big mill test ICAR New Portals The Council has created the following portals for effective governance by utilizing the information and communication technology. ICAR Data Centre and Unified Communication portals to secure institute information and information transmission.  ICAR-Enterprise resource planning (ERP) System to this manage the human resource in information of the council including pay roll, finance and budgeting.  KVK Knowledge Network Portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in) to share basic information and facilities of KVKs with contingency plans, demonstration schedule, and advisories.  Management System for Post-Graduate Education (MSPGE) enabling academic and e-learning modules while also being a repository of academic records  E-Samvad, an online interface of the Council to answer citizens queries.  KRISHI –A knowledge repository portal of digital information pertaining to research experiments, outputs, publications, etc.  E-Krishi Manch, a dedicated portal for farmer-scientist interaction. Indian Farming 30 January 2023 Enhancing productivity and nutrition with biofortified pearl millet cultivars P Sanjana Reddy*, Parashuram Patroti and V M Malathi ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Food, economic and nutritional securities are equally important to the resource poor farmers relying on pearl millet in marginal environments. Bio-fortified cultivars of pearl millet with higher iron (Fe) and zinc (Zn) content in the grain along with high grain yield are supposed to be the best solution in this context. With the concerted efforts of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), Harvest Plus, ICRISAT and State Agricultural Universities, biofortified varieties and hybrids are available in pearl millet. The world first high-Fe pearl millet variety ‘Dhanashakti’ released in 2014 has 71 mg/kg Fe and 2.2 t/ha grain yield. The first set of biofortified hybrids (AHB 1200 Fe and HHB 299) released in 2018 had 73–77 mg/kg Fe, 39–41 mg/kg Zn with more than 3 t/ha of grain yield. With similar levels of grain yield, the second set of hybrids (RHB 233, RHB 234, AHB 1269, HHB 311) released in 2019–20 had 83–91 mg/kg Fe and 39–46 mg/kg Zn.