 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report variants also showed superior performance with the highest accuracy of 99%(Murad et al., 2023). The lowest performance was shown by VGGNet. ¢ Soil health management: Digital soil mapping and smart prediction of soil nutrients are important for maintaining healthy soil to achieve sustainable food production. Now ML has become an intelligent prediction system for soil nutrients. On a comparative review of different MLs, it was observed that random forest (RF) and deep learning outperformed other conventional ML models for predicting soil nutrients (Folorunso et al., 2023). The graphical representation of top machine learning models in soil nutrient predictions are shown in Figure 26. i" ——————— — ————— ° SVM 9 CM 6 ANN 4 DNN 3 RK 3 QRF 3 SVR 2 XGBoost 2 | CaRT LR Co hm a > § 6 7 8 i) 10 11 Paper Count (Source: Folorunso et al., 2023) Figure 26: Graphical representation of the top 12 ML models used for soil predictions ¢ Crop quality management: Sensing technologies and ML models play a vital role in managing the quality of the crops by assessing N and chlorophyll status in plants. In contrast from last decades where the simple parametric regression algorithms with narrowband vegetation indices was used, an increasing trend was observed in machine learning and its hybrid version by integrating radiative transfer models as shown in Figure 27 (Berger et al., 2020). Moreover, the role of leaf protein content in estimating N status using the SWIR spectral region of hyperspectral data was also explored using hybrid physical-based models (Verrelst et al., 2021). Major crop traits such as leaf area index (LAI), leaf chlorophyll content (LCC), and canopy chlorophyll content (CCC) are also important for monitoring the crop quality. Recent trend in using hybrid models, mainly coupling the radiative transfer model with Gaussian process regression demonstrated a fast and accurate retrieval of these parameters (Sahoo et al., 2023b). The reported regression models for crop N estimation is shown in Figure 27. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 36 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 37 (Source: Berger et al., 2020) Figure 27: Estimation of N content using different methods • Smart irrigation: A layer of machine learning-based irrigation architecture was proposed by (Abioye et al., 2022), where data from multiple sources like UAV and satellite-captured data, soil and weather information was stored in cloud server integrated with a ML model to make, predictions, decisions, and recommendations on scheduling smart irrigations. To achieve precise and smart management of irrigation practices in fields, (Sayari et al., 2021) recommend the use of machine learning models such as supervised learning, unsupervised learning, reinforcement learning, and federated learning models.