 This is the apex body with its headquarters at New Delhi for coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including animal sciences and fisheries. The Council is an autonomous organisation under the governance of Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Established on 16 July 1929 as a registered society under the Societies Registration Act (1860) in pursuance of the report of the Royal Commission on Agriculture, ICAR now has 113 research institutes, 74 agricultural universities, 4 deemed-to-be-universities, 3 central universities and 731 Krishi Vigyan Kendras spread across the country. With these, ICAR leads one of the largest National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) in the world. India has one of the largest agricultural research human resource capitals in the world with approximately 30,000 scientists and more than 100,000 technical & supporting personnel in the NARES. ICAR footprints are also extended to the neighbouring countries and several international, national and regional research organizations and universities are engaged with ICAR in agricultural research and development. Additionally, private and non-Governmental organizations and farmers themselves have done significant agricultural research in their own fields. Indian Agriculture: Achievements and Aspirations 7 4. Landmark achievements in Indian agriculture In the year 1950-51 for which the data of agricultural production of majority of the commodities are available by the authorized sources, we have been producing about 135 Mt from agriculture and allied sectors. In 2021-22, total production of food and non- food items was about 1300 Mt. This achievement is one amongst the very few noticeable landmarks in the history of Independent India. There has been multi-fold increase in the production of all the commodities, in spite the net sown area remaining almost constant at about 140 Mha. The country has witnessed a rainbow revolution in the agricultural commodities (Fig. 1). Green (Crop) White (Milk) Blue (Fish) Yellow (Oil) Golden (Hort. & Honey) Silver (Egg) Brown (Coffee) Gray (Wool) Fig. 1. Revolutions in Indian agriculture India now is one of the largest agri-producers globally, ranking within the top 5 countries. These have enabled not only self-sufficiency in food, but also export of agri-commodities worth US$ 50 billion. Production of most of the agricultural commodities has increased by 6 to 68 times with only 1.3 times increase in area (Table 2). Thus, the country, which was food scarce till 1950, transformed itself into food shortage by 1960, food sufficient by 2000, food secured by 2010 and food surplus by 2010 onwards (Fig. 2). During the on- going COVID-19 pandemic situation also, food production systems have been meeting the demands, with innovative interventions across the value chain.