 Pandey, Principal Scientist and Dr D.B. Mondal, Senior Scientist, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar 243 122 (U.P.) Govind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of EPM and Dr J. L. Singh, Associate Professor, Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S. Nagar (Uttaranchal) 263 145. Maharashtra Animal Science & Fisheries Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor and Dr D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 44006 (Maharashtra) METHODOLOGY Experiment IVRI Therapeutic trials: Bael powder @ 24 g/100 kg body weight for 3 days was given orally to 25 clinical cases of animals suffering from neonatal diarrhoea (Gr II). The animals of Gr I (5) receiving standard treatment served as the control. Evaluation of therapy: The diarrhoeic animals were kept under close observations and the treatment success in the two groups was evaluated on the basis of clinical and hemato-biochemical improvement. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1. Experimental design Clinical profile: The clinical scores (0-3 basis) for faecal consistency (FC), dehydration and depression were recorded on day 0 (before therapy) and days 3 and 7 after therapy as per the following criteria suggested by Walker et al. (1998). Haemato-biochemical profile: The blood samples were collected before (day 0) and after administration of the treatment (days 3 and 7) and analysed for different haemato-biochemical parameters, viz. packed cell volume (PCV), glucose, protein, albumin (A) and globulin (G) ratio (A:G ratio), sodium (Na), potassium (K) and chloride (Cl) following standard methods. GBPUAT Therapeutic trials: Calves (30) suffering from diarrhoea were divided randomly into three equal groups. The animals of group I were given standard treatment in the form of Cflox-Tz bolus (ciprofloxacin + tinidazole) @ one bolus per 100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. The animals of group II were treated with bael powder juice @ 24 g/100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. The animals of group 111 received Cflox- Tz @ one bolus/100 kg body weight twice a day and bael powder juice @ 24 g/100 kg body weight twice a day for 3 days. Evaluation of therapy: The animals were observed closely and therapeutic efficacy of different treatments was evaluated on the basis of clinical profile and haemato-biochemical changes Clinical profile: To study the clinical profile of diarrhoeic calves, a clinical scores (0-3 basis) for faecal consistency, dehydration and depression was recorded on day 0 (before treatment) and days 3 and 7 after therapy. Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTLIRE Fig. 1. Powdered bael fruit Fig. 2.