 Protected cultivation in horticulture, if properly implemented, offers a great deal of promise to farmers who use the technology with sustainable solutions for increased productivity, improved livelihoods, and nutritional security, especially as cooperative clusters of high- tech farming. Protected cultivation under greenhouses, polyhouses, net-houses, tunnels, mulches, etc., all of which include intelligent and thorough use of plastics in various forms, based on requirements, suitability of regions, climates, crops and technologies infrastructure or paraphernalia e.g. UV stabilized polythene sheets, insect-proof nets, shade-nets, mulches, drip irrigation pipes, filters, tanks, plastic-lined water harvesting, etc. Protected cultivation fulfilling agricultural expectations Agriculture often places significant pressure on natural resources and the environment. Sustainable agricultural practices are intended to protect the environment, expand the earth’s natural resource base and maintain, and improve soil fertility. Demand for agricultural commodities is rising rapidly as the world’s population grows. Agriculture’s deep connections to the world economy, human societies and biodiversity make it one of the most important frontiers for conservation around the globe. It is noteworthy that protected cultivation appears to be the only area of agriculture that can address the majority of its inherent constraints into an ideal system that could address them as modules of systematic and sustainable farming, including healthy planting material, quality seed production, conservation and optimization, and input use efficiency of water and other resources, precision farming, good agricultural practices (GAP), integrated pest management (IPM), Indian Farming 7 February 2023 integrated nutrient management (INM), grafting and soilless cultivation. Protected cultivation technology is, thus, the future of horticulture. The potential of addressing soil erosion, recycling abilities, as well as amelioration of soil and water pollution are additional boons to overall ecosystem besides the economy of agriculture. Above all the advantages, protected cultivation is very amenable to women workforce. Variety of technologies that fall under the category of protected cultivation are given as: Poly-house A poly-house is permanent structure, covered with a transparent or translucent material. Materials used to construct a poly-house frame may be wood, bamboo and steel or even aluminum. Coverings material is generally a plastic film. Two types of poly-houses are designed in Indian condition, one is called naturally ventilated poly-house and the other is force ventilated (fan-pad) poly-house. Naturally ventilated poly-houses are used mainly in temperate and moderate climate conditions, while force ventilated (fan-pad) poly-houses are suitable for tropical, sub-tropical and arid zone farming systems.