 But don’t think wearing gloves is an option of hand washing. yy The collected milk should be immediately sieved with a cloth and 93 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS covered and put it in a cool place. yy If milk is to be sold openly, it should be taken to market as soon as possible in covered containers and cold conditions. Otherwise, if packaged facilities are available, milk packets and packaged milk containers should be encouraged. yy Use a long-handled ladle to measure milk, and if you have touched something in between, then clean the hands and then touch it again. yy The person selling milk should wear a full sleeves shirt with and keep a safe distance from the other person. yy Regulate milk distribution in such a way that human contact is minimized. yy At the time of delivery of milk and milk products, leave the product at the door of the buyer and maintain a gap of at least 6 feet so that human contact can be avoided. yy Wear masks and gloves at the sales counter and ask customers to maintain social distance. For Dairy Animals - yy Use of Meethi Chari as a green fodder to provide adequate roughages during summer. High producing animal maintains its milk production irrespective of harsh summers. yy Conversion of maximum milk into its products like Ghee. Lower prices of milk during lockdown could be augmented by selling milk products. yy Supplementation of Perrineal Napier grass, Subabul, and Moringa leaves with traditional feed for enriching the quality of ration. It Maintain the health as well as milk production of milch animals and goats with minimum stress. yy Timely deworming and proper management of goats which help in Health stock and desired weight gain 94 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-IV BIHAR yy Selection of paddy variety for seedling preparation. For low land area select long duration varieties like Swarna sub-1, Rajendra Masuri, Sabour Deep, Sabour Sampan; for medium duration variety- Rajendra Sweta, Sonam, BPT-5204, Arize -6444, Rupali, MTU-1001. yy Raise nursery in June for timely transplanting during July month. yy Under upland condition the Short duration paddy variety-Sabour Ardhjal, Sahbhagi, CR dhaan-40, Turanta, Shushk Samrat, Swarn Shreya etc. can be selected and sown directly through DSR method. yy Farmers must treat their seed before sowing of seedling through carbendazim-2.5 g/kg seed plus Streptocycline@1.0g per 3kg seed. yy Application of N:P:K 1:1:1 kg for (100 m2) area and Pyrazosulfuron Ethyl 10 WP @6g/Kattha(1365 sq. feet or 151 m2) before 12 hour of sowing for weed control in paddy nursery. yy To protect paddy nursery and other crops from grasshopper by spraying of cypermethrin 25% EC @ 1ml/L water or cypermethrin 10% EC @ 2.5 ml/L water or Deltamethrin 2.8% EC @ 1.5 ml/L of water. After 2-3 days spray Neem oil @ 5ml/litre of water. yy Farmers are advice to select and sow pigeon pea in upland area where good water drainage facility is available.