 1996 Inactivated low cost vaccine for equine influenza developed. 2003 HERP kit for Equine herpesvirus infections developed. 2007 Development of cell culture vaccine for classical swine fever. 2008 Monoclonal antibody-based blocking ELISA kit against EHV1 developed. 2008 Recombinant antigen-based ELISA kit for diagnosis of T. equi antibodies developed. 2008 Recombinant protein-based ELISA for differentiation of EHV1 and EHV4 infection de- veloped. 2008 Inactivated vaccine Equiperabort’ against EHV1 developed. Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 249 Year Milestone 2014 India declared free from African Horse Sickness by OIE. 2014 Vero cell culture attenuated live camelpox vaccine developed. 2015 Updated inactivated equine influenza vaccine developed. 2019 Glanders ELISA kit developed. 2019 Recombinant p26 protein based indirect ELISA for equine infectious anaemia developed. 2020 Live attenuated Classical Swine Fever cell culture vaccine using indigenous strain developed 2021 Trypanosoma evansi diagnostic kit developed. 2021 Inactivated Japanese encephalitis vaccine for pigs developed. 2021 Canine distemper indigenous vaccine developed. 8. Poultry health management and their impact Indian poultry is facing a major challenge in the control of diseases. Despite strict bio- security protocols, enhanced housing facilities, and caring nutrition, India is witnessing repeated occurrences of emerging and re-emerging diseases, especially in the organized sector. Now the most alarming concern is that the post-mortem based diagnosis and treatment is often confusing since mixed infections are becoming dominant and pose difficulty for differential diagnosis. Even vaccine strains are sometimes causing the disease in birds after vaccination. The north-eastern part of India shares a porous border with China, Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Myanmar adding high burden of infectious diseases to Indian poultry flocks. Pathogenic and emerging diseases namely avian influenza often causes heavy loss both in the domestic market and international trade. Respiratory disease complex and complicated chronic respiratory disease in poultry are other major challenging issues posed to the Indian poultry industry. 8.1. Avian influenza Except for avian influenza, all poultry disease outbreaks are going almost unnoticed, hence remain underreported. Highly pathogenic avian influenza (HPAI) caused by the H5 subtype of Type A influenza virus has emerged as an economically most important disease with a significant impact on marginal and rural backyard poultry farmers (DAHD 2015). The outbreaks have occurred as epidemic waves during 2008-09 and thereafter established as sporadic occurrences.