 haemorrhoidalis colonies, introduced in polyhouse for buzz pollination of tomato- crop, proved superior over self pollination (crop without pollinator) of tomato (Solan Lalima) with respect to quantitative (number of fruits per cluster, number of fruits per plant, fruit weight, yield, seed number, 1000 seed weight) as well as qualitative (fruit size, healthy Seed-borne endophytic Penicillium – a growth promoter and biocontrol agent An endophytic Penicillium sp. isolated from seeds of rice possessed plant growth promotor as well as effective biocontrol potential against key rice pathogens viz. Rhizoctonia solani, R. oryzae sativae, Bipolaris oryzae and Fusarium in in-vitro. Treatment of seeds with the endophyte significantly enhanced shoot length, root length, and fresh and dry seedling weight with concomitant increase of chlorophyll, proteins, amino acids and lignans in rice-plants. Exogenous application of Penicillium sp. improved plant growth and enhanced plant survival against salt stress and Fusarium infection. Biosecurity alert and preparation against wheat blast Extensive surveys were conducted in West Bengal along the international border following outbreak of wheat blast in Bangladesh in March 2016. In India, in the 1st week of April, absence of the disease was confirmed. Based on the survey report, 40 released varieties / advanced wheat lines were sent to CIMMYT, Mexico, for evaluation against wheat blast disease in the hot spot for this disease (Bolivia, Brazil, Paraguay and Argentina). On the basis of the disease- screening results, resistant varieties would be developed for farmers. of villages in Budh Nagar, Uttar Pradesh, and also in 650 ha at Chhajpur (Panipat), Haryana. In the fields only one application of chemical pesticide i.e., carbendazim as seed treatment was given whereas in farmers’ practice, 2-5 applications of chemical pesticides (chlorantraniliprole 0.4% GR, carbofuran 3G, chlorpyriphos 20 EC) were applied. In the IPM trials on the direct-seeded rice (DSR), high yield (5.5 tonnes/ha) and benefit: cost ratio (3.39) were observed as against the transplanted paddy. Biological control Bentonite-based formulations of Bacillus thuringiensis against rice leaf folder (Cnaphalocrocis medinalis): Water-soluble granular formulation of Bacillus thuringiensis was developed for management of rice leaf folder. The Bt formulation validated at different agroclimates indicated that the strain was also effective against the seedling blight of rice caused by Sclerotium sp. Effective management of the disease in nursery beds was validated by the application of bio- control agent. Pesticide monitoring Eighty-one multilocation supervised field trials were conducted to evaluate persistence and dissipation of new and existing pesticides on various crops in different agroclimates.