 Ponnampeta, Batteru, Naira, Karajada, Bhyri and Singupuram in Srikakulam tehsil, Andhra Pradesh covered approx. 2,302 ha. of rice crop. A spatial autocorrelation of 260 m, 370 m and 403 m in YSB, LF and BPH population was identified in sampling area. Application of Dalhanderma increased grain yield in pigeonpea, chickpea and lentil. Diversity of plant parasitic and beneficial nematodes in coastal rice ecosystems: Nematode genera belonging to 21 different nematode families were identified and nematode abundance was higher at soil pH ranging from 6-6.5. Diversity index and evenness index of all locations were estimated and a high nematode diversity was observed at sampling location Selagapeta village of Santhabommalimandal, Srikakulam, Andhra Pradesh with soil pH of 5.36. Horticulture Crop Production Mango-based cropping system: The mango-based cropping system with dragon fruit and pineapple as component crops exhibited higher production efficiency (85.21 kg/day/ha), economic efficiency and sustainable yield index under Bhubaneswar conditions. Thinning of grapes: For overcoming the problem of uneven ripening in grape variety Gulabi, retention of 40 to 50 bunches per vine followed by the treatment of bunches with 300 ppm of ethrel at Veraison stage (berry softening) was standardized. Spatial distribution map of YSB damage dead hearts. Different nematode genus identified from north coastal district of Andhra Pradesh. Uniform and uneven ripening in bunches of var. Gulabi. Regulation of crop load in mango: Regulation of crop load @ 0.5 fruit/cm2 of TCSA improved the fruit weight (218.5 g), proportion of Grade A fruit (56.34%) and pulp content in mango at Bhubaneshwar condition. Fruit drop management in mango: In mango variety Banganapalli, foliar application of triacontanol (3-5 ppm) at panicle initiation stage, pea stage and marble stage increased the fruit retention, ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 78 CROP MANAGEMENT fruit yield (36.27 kg/tree) and TSS (19.71°B). Yield stability models for mandarins: On the basis of observations on fruit yield stability, models were developed for mandarin from the database of five centres, viz. Akola, Ludhiana, Nagpur, Sriganganagar and Tinsukia. The fruit yield per tree in Mudkhed Seedless (48.1 kg), Nagpur Seedless (47.3 kg), Nagpur Mandarin (47.3 kg), Kinnow Mandarin (62 kg), Coorg Mandarin (44.6 kg), and Darjeeling Mandarin (37.9 kg) were stable and ideal for all locations. Crop load optimization through thinning in Solapur Lal pomegranate: Solapur Lal produces profuse flowers and surplus fruits throughout the tertiary branches, resulting in medium sized fruits. Light thinning of fruits resulted in optimum number of fruits (114.2 fruits/tree), fruit size (275.2 g/fruit) and optimum yield (31.43 kg/tree), which is superior over the control. The export quality fruits were highest in light thinning over others and was lowest in control.