 Almost similar results were obtained with aged urine of cows, buffaloes and sheeps. Fresh urine of all the animals showed relatively less effect than the aged urine. The treatment with 150 g cowdung ash/plant was found to be most effective. On the contrary, the data obtained from experiments conducted at Banglore during 2004 showed that there was low incidence of aphids during the experimental period. It ranged from 0 to 25 per 10 plants in the control. In the treated plots it ranged from 0 to 336 per plant (Table 1). The pest was observed only after 20 days of the first treatment. The late and low incidence was due to the continuous rain received during the cropping period. However, cabbage aphid incidence was significantly affected by ash and urine application. The incidence of Lipaphis erysimi was also low during the experimental period (Table 2). There was no significant difference between any of the tertaments during the first three dates of observations. However, on 20 July 2004 the Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 1. Incidence of cabbage aphid (Brevicoryne brassicae) in cabbage under different treatments Figures in parentheses are log (x+l)-transformed values incidence of aphid was noticed only in control plot and it was nil in other plots treated with urine, ash and dimethoate. Data pertaining to diamond back moth indicated that there was some reduction in the incidence of the insect due to spraying of fresh cow urine, old cow urine and cowdung ash (Table 3). However, the decrease in pest incidence was not uniformly consistent when doses were taken into account. Data on stem borer (Table 4) and percentage of marketable heads as well as mean head weight, (Table 5) were not significantly different in any of the treatments. The old cow urine spayed at all the three dates showed mild toxicity symptoms of yellow patches and roughness in leaves after the spray. However, Table 2. Incidence of mustard aphid (Lipaphis erysimi) in cabbage under different treatments Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 3. Incidence of diamond-back moth under different treatments the leaves did not show any toxicity symptoms. In addition the plots treated with old cow urine showed low incidence of the larval parasitoides Protecia plutella compared with the control (Table 6). The nutrition status of fresh cow urine and old cow urine was also found out as presented in Table 7. The nutrient status indicated that old urine has more nitrogen, total protein and albumin content than fresh urine. Data emerged from experiments conducted in Himachal Pradesh during 2004 revealed that the Table 5. Mean cabbage-head weight under different management practices Figures in parentheses are log (x+l)-transformed values Figures in parentheses are log (x+1 )-transformed values Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 6.