 l University organized four Summer Schools and three training programmes to give impetus to develop intellectual skills in the area of agriculture and allied fields. l The National Service Scheme introduced first time as a part of regular credit course curricula. DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITIES Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar l Twelve short-term training courses were organized for the benefit of faculty members. l An International Training Course on Molecular Biology and Biotechnology in Animal Research (IGMBBTAR 2001) was conducted. l Academic regulations of the Deemed to be University were compiled and released. MANPOWER DEVELOPMENT Accreditation of Agricultural Universities In the continuing process of accreditation, 16 SAUs and 3 DUs have been under process of accreditation during the year. Out of them, peer review teams have visited 5 universities, namely KAU, Thrissur; UAS, Bangalore; PAU, Ludhiana; SKKV, Palampur and CIFE, Mumbai. The reports from the peer review teams are awaited. The visits of peer review teams for 3 SAUs namely, DYSPUHF, Solan; UAS, Dharwad and DBSKKV, Dapoli have been planned during December, 2002. The remaining universities namely, CSUAT, Kanpur; GAU, Banaskantha; GBPUAT, Pantnagar; IGAU, Raipur; JNKV, Jabalpur; RAU, Bikaner; SKUAST, Srinagar; BAU, Ranchi; IARI, New Delhi; IVRI, Izatnagar and NDRI, Karnal have completed their self study and they are in the process of finalizing the Self Study reports of the university and constituent colleges. The self study reports are expected by March, 2003 and the entire accreditation process is planned to be completed by December, 2003. Revision of PG curricula and syllabi The exercise of revising PG curricula and syllabi has been completed with revision of syllabi of one more Master’s degree program. Thus, the PG curricula and syllabi have been revised for major disciplines of Agriculture and Allied Sciences (excluding Veterinary and Animal Sciences), totaling to 44, which have been approved by the Accreditation Board. During the year, 5 more course catalogues for Master’s degree programs have been printed raising the number of such catalogues to 13. The printed catalogues alongwith revised academic regulations have been supplied to all Agricultural Universities for implementation from the academic year 2002-03. Most of the universities have started the process of approval and adoption. Veterinary students being trained under practical poultry production programme ALL INDIA ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS Examinations were conducted by the ICAR during June 2002 for filling 15% seats in UG and 25% in PG for all the SAUs, DUs, CAU and three CUs (AMU, BHU and Viswa Bharti). For 10 programmes in 38 Institutions for UG, 14,288 candidates applied and 864 were admitted. For PG, there were 7,999 candidates in 19 programmes and 88 subjects at 37 institutions of which 1,129 were admitted. For allotment of seats, counselling was held during July 2002.