 Super donors and alleles for spikelet fertility and low chalkiness under thermal stress in rice: To identify the rice donors having a higher ability to withstand the challenges posed by high temperatures, 435 indica rice accessions were imported from the 3000 sequenced accessions, with an aim to phenotype them under high temperature stress for spikelet fertility and grain chalkiness. A panel of 150 diverse accessions from the 3K rice genome panel of IRRI was assembled, and extensively phenotyped in the Phenomics Facility under well-watered (100% FC) and water limited (60% FC) conditions. The traits showed remarkable consistency across water regimes and seasons indicating a strong genetic control of physiological traits. It was demonstrated that leaf mass area (LMA) was closely related to NAR and was an important determinant of drought resistance. Results of stomatal traits measurements revealed that higher stomatal frequency combined with small size showed higher WUE. Molecular analysis using the large SNP database available for these genotypes led to the identifications of robust QTL associated with these traits by GWAS. Role of dietary trace minerals in animals under biotic and abiotic stress conditions: Experimental study in rats fed purified diets under heat stress conditions revealed that higher dietary selenium at 300 and 450 ppb levels had positive effects on blood haemoglobin and serum calcium and phosphorus concentrations in rats under heat stress condition. Selenium at 450 ppb level ameliorated heat stress induced harmful effects by improving antioxidant status, regulating thyroid and insulin hormone, reducing inflammatory cytokines and improving humoral immunity indicating higher requirement of dietary selenium under heat stress conditions. higher zinc at 24 and 36 ppm level lowered oxidative stress biomarker in rats. Feeding 36 ppm zinc in the diet reduced hepatic Differentiation of metabolite profile alteration pattern in three maize genotypes upon FAW feeding. 23 Salient Achievements of the Projects Metallothionein-1 (MT-1) gene expression irrespective of stress condition, however, endotoxin exposure up-regulated intestinal zinc transporter genes (ZIP-1 and ZnT-1) expression in rats fed diet containing 12 ppm zinc, but higher zinc at 24 and 36 ppm concentration resulted in down-regulation of zinc transporter genes under healthy as well as endotoxin stress conditions. Potential gene mining from salt tolerant grasses for improvement of salt tolerance in crops: Thirty-four differentially expressed genes (DEGs) from grass halophytes, Urochondra setulosa and Dichanthium annulatum showing high level of expression during salt stress were compared with DEGs in salt tolerant rice, CSR10, during reproductive stage @12 and 18 dsm-1.The analysis showed two genes involved in trehalose metabolism (Trehalose 6-P synthase, Trehalose 6-P Phosphatase) were co-expressed both in Urochondra and Dicanthium at salt stress >18 dsm-1.