0 mm) was higher in ‘Doka’ animals as compared to the other groups. Buffaloes exhibiting ‘Doka’ were in majority (approx. 80%) and showed estrus behaviour after 2.22±0.60 days of its occurrence. Goat Chemically defined extender: Chemically defined semen extender for Black Bengal buck semen preservation was developed. Egg yolk present in the semen extender protects sperm cells from cold shock damage during storage at low temperature. As egg yolk coagulating enzyme and phospholipase present in the goat seminal plasma damages sperm cells besides increasing microbial contamination, it was replaced by soybean lecithin, which is rich in phosphatidylcholine in preservation of Black Bengal buck semen. Tris based semen extender for preservation of Black Bengal Buck semen with soybean lecithin at 1.5% (w/v) showed optimal post thaw recovery for insemination purposes. Mithun Biostimulation of bulls: Mithun bulls are known for their shy nature and they do not readily mount over the estrus female in a confined condition. Hence, for improving collection of semen using artificial vagina the bulls were biostimulated by exposing them to estrus females as well as urine, dung and sweat of estrus females. A significantly higher level of testosterone, FSH and LH was recorded in the mithun bulls post biostimulation. Reproductive performance of bulls: The testicular morphometry and endocrinological profiles of mithun males varied significantly with the age and seasons. In comparison to summer, a significantly higher scrotal circumference was observed in winter and spring with significantly higher level of FSH, LH, testosterone, thyroxine and IGF-1 and lower cortisol. The association between hormone profile, testicular and scrotal parameters and age groups in mithun bulls was significant. Age of puberty: Exogenous administration of Kisspeptin in mithun revealed an early onset of estrus, an increased expression of kiss1 and GPR54 mRNA, peripheral estradiol and FSH concentration and an increased follicular growth with early onset of estrus in the animals. Timed AI: Post-partum mithun cows were synchronised using either progesterone releasing intra- vaginal device (PRID) followed by PGF2α or Ovsynch protocol (GnRH + PGF2α). Estrus detection was confirmed through rectal palpation as well as through ultrasound scanning of ovaries. The estrous synchronised mithun cows were artificially inseminated with frozen- thawed semen and pregnancy was confirmed after 50 Green energy (biogas) production exclusively from poultry excreta In-vitro standardization for efficient bio-gas production from poultry excreta was done through dilution (D), carbonization (C) and acidification (A) techniques. Best combination of D and C experiments was used for substrate formulation and in-vivo bio-gas production using 0.2 M3 anaerobic digester and designated as DC. In DCA, substrate was formulated using combinations of D, C and A.