 (2000) 339 Ehnomedical use of Abutilon indicum The leaves of kikar (Abutilon indicum) plant are used as demulcent, aphrodisiac, laxative, diuretic, pulmonary sedative and seed is used as laxative, expectorant, demulcent. Generally the seeds of this plant are used in curing chest infections, gonorrhoea and urethritis. Parabia et al. (2000) 340 Medicinal uses of Lawsonia inermis, L.alba, L.spinosa Bark, leaf, stembark, flower and seed of Lawsonia inermis contains lawsone, hannotannic acid, resin, glucoside that are used as alterative, sedative, astringent, refrigerant, soporific, deodorant, diuretic, jaundice, enlargement of spleen, bruises, sprain inflammations, burns, menorrhagoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 239 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 341 Medicinal uses of Helecteres isora Stembark, root juice, fruit, seed of morphali (Helecteres isora) contain tannin, is used as astringent, demulcent, anodyne, antigalactogogue, diarrhoea, root juice for diabetes, empyema, snake-bite, stomach trouble, scabies. Parabia et al. (2000) 342 Medicinal uses of Heliiotropium indicum Plant, leaf of hastisunda (Heliiotropium indicum) contain alkaloids, tannins, indicine, echinatin, supinene, leleurine, heliotrine and are used as anodyne, abortifacient, diuretic, boils, sores, gum boils, pimples, sore throat, ring worm, rheumatism, bronchitis, cough. Parabia et al. (2000) 343 Medicinal uses of Hemidesmus indicus Root, rootbark and root juice of magrabu (Hemidesmus indicus) that contian volatile oil, hemidesmine, coumarin, stearoptin, saponin, resin acid, glucoside, sterols, tannins are used as alterative, diaphoretic, demulcent, diuretic, sudorific, inflammation of urinary passage, blood tumours, cough, dyspepsia, loss of appetite, fever, skin disease, ulceration, syphilis, rheumatism, leucorrhea, scorpion and snake bites. Parabia et al. (2000) 344 Medicinal uses of Hibiscus rosasinensis Root, flower, seed of the plant that contain quercetin, cyanidin, kaempferol are used as emollient, demulcent, emmenagogue, antiinflammatory, refrigerant, aprodisiac, anodyne and laxative, menorrhoea, fever and cough. Parabia et al. (2000) 345 Medicinal uses of Holarrhena antidysenterica, Syn. Wrightia antidysenterica Stembark, leaf and seed of Holarrhena contain alkaloids, conessine, kurchine, kurchcine, holarramine, conarrhimine, conamine, conessimine, isocondessimine, conessidine, condkurchine, kurchincine and are used as astringent, febrifuge, anthelmintic, bitter tonic, antibacterial, dysentery, intestinal worms, amoebiasis, mucus colitis. Parabia et al. (2000) 346 Medicinal uses of Ficus glomerata, F.racemosa Stembark, leaf, rootbark, fruit, milky juice of gular (Ficus glomerata) contain tannin, wax, caouhouc, ash, silica, phosphoric acid. They are used in controlling rinder pest, dysentery, diabetes, bilious affections, menorrhoea, haemoptyxis, piles and diarrhoea. Parabia et al.