 Similarly, the development of high-yielding and climate-smart rice cultivars by using different new breeding, genomic tools, and genetic engineering need to be priorities. Indian Agriculture after Independence 110 4.5. Partnerships & Linkages Consortium approach involving public-private partnership for germplasm sharing and utilization is warranted. Similarly, sharing of advance breeding lines among breeders for desired traits can lead to the development of varieties suitable for different agro-ecological conditions. Deployment of appropriate cultivars based on systematic screening for tolerance to key biotic stresses at different hotspot locations through partnerships can help avert crop failures due to location-specific pests and diseases. Partnership programs for the dissemination of management strategies in various programmes have paid rich dividends in recent years. Linkages with NBRI, PPV&FRA, NBA, DBT, DST, APEDA, DAC, IMD, ISRO Remote Sensing Application Centres, and CGIAR institutes can go a long way in fostering research and development. 4.6. Policies India has a constitutionally empowered National Food Security Act, 2013 to protect the poor and needy consumers from food deficit and food crisis. In the realm of flaring global prices, while taking into consideration, the need for ensuring food security in the country, the need of the hours is reformulating of policies so as to strengthen the efficiency in supply and demand sides in agricultural sector in India. This can indeed lead to faster growth and greater environmental sustainability of agriculture. The reforms in minimum support price (MSP) determination and implementation, decentralization of the revamped public distribution system (PDS), and introduction of food stamps, essential commodities and storage according to size of inventory of the processing units, etc may serve larger policy goals in the agricultural sector. The most important target is to reduce the costs of procurement, distribution, and storage operations. Achieving this goal will help to reduce the government’s budgetary expenses to a great extent. Another important policy issue is de-linking of the procurement price from the MSP. The MSP, thought to provide protection against price risk at the harvest, should be decoupled from its primary purpose of augmenting the farmer income. At the same time, PDS could be slowly eliminated and to ensure food for poor expansion of a food coupon system can be implemented. The food coupon system will allow the poor to purchase food at the prevailing market prices. In the new regime of IPR, the exchange of genetic material for the research purpose should be made more liberal and very clear guidelines in benefit sharing to the partners. To sustain the food and nutritional security, support of the government as well as strong private industry is required in the form of strengthening both conventional as well as innovative breeding technologies. 5.