 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 146 A Family-size, Solid-state Anaerobic Digester for Agro-residues The available solid-state digester of 1.18 m3 capacity has been used. A mild steel perforated leachate re-circulation tray was developed and stationed over the top of the digester under the gas holder for solving the problem of uneven moisture and microbial flora distribution inside the digester. The leachate percolated at 4 litre/ min through the digester substrate-bed and accumulated in the built-in leachate collection chamber, having 78.5 litres capacity for the next 24 hours. For easier emptying of digested mass, a cylindrical sieved structure suiting to available digester was designed. The feasibility of the fabricated system has been tested by charging mixed substrate in the perforated cylinder, and the system has been found workable. The generated gas was removed from gas plenum and conveyed through flexible/ rigid pipe for introducing at the bottom of the digester near the leachate-accumulation chamber. Biogas Plant for High Water-table Regions A biogas plant of 6 m3 capacity and of floating dome-type, suitable for high water-table regions such as tarai of Uttaranchal, has been developed. Its digester depth is lower than (diameter to depth ratio is 1 : 1) the conventional KVIC design. This design plants have been installed in 4 rural houses in Nainital and Udhamsingh Nagar at Rs 32,000 each. The average biogas yield varied between 4.2 m3/day in summer and 2.2 m3/day in winter. The families did not require LPG cylinders, excepting for December to February. Natural Draft Gasifier for Rural Community Application The SPRERI Natural Draft Gasifier (85 kW) has been put under operational research project trials for boiling forest produce (bael and amla) at village Khori in Sheopur district. A boiler having a capacity of 400 kg of forest produce, designed and developed by the MPSTEP and IIFM, has been retrofitted with SPRERI Natural Draft Gasifier, and modifications have been incorporated for guiding the flame. Its initial testing was conducted at the CIAE, Bhopal, for about 20 hr. Its steam initiation time was 30-40 minutes and biomass consumption varied from 22 to 27 kg/hr. The PHU of the system was 33.4 to 39.2%. The gasifier has been installed at 1.6 m below the ground and a chain-pulley system has been installed for easy loading and unloading of the forest produce in the boiler, placed above the gasifier. Groundnut-shells-based Open-core Gasifier Groundnut-shells-based Open-core Downdraft Gasifier has been developed by the SPRERI, VallabhVidyanagar. It consists of a well-insulated, open-top cylindrical reactor with a manually-operated cast-iron grate, a blower for producing appropriate draft and a naturally aspirated producer gas-burner. The fuel used for the system is dry groundnut-shells (moisture content around 8%) and groundnut-shell briquettes.