 The developed RGB-Thermal imager provides real time data collection, using AMG8833 temperature sensor having FoV (60°) and accuracy 2°C, better than commercially available thermal imagers. GPS module interfaced with RGB-Thermal imager can be used to assess spatial variability. The continuous recording of data helps in real time monitoring and controlling of actuators. Overall, the developed module is user friendly, robust, low cost (<` 15,000) and unaffected by environmental parameters (temperature, rainfall). Tractor operated tobacco seedling transplanter with spot application of water A tractor operated tobacco seedling transplanter with spot application of water was developed. The nursery grown seedlings in the protrays can be dropped through the metering mechanism by two operators who are seated behind the equipment. A shoe type soil opener opens up the soil. The seedlings, which is dropped down from the seedling placement mechanism will be placed in the opened-up soil. The soil compaction wheels which follows the soil opener closes the soil thereby giving stability to the seedlings. The plant to plant spacing can be adjusted to 50 cm, 60 cm and 75 cm to suit the demand of different region. Similarly, row to row spacing can be adjusted to 65 cm, 70 cm and 100 cm. Both the seedling dropping mechanism and watering mechanism will be actuated through cam arrangement fitted in the transmission system to synchronize seedlings dropping and watering. The quantity of water applied per plant is 200–250 ml. The field capacity of the equipment is 0.2 to 0.3 ha/h and the missing percentage is to the tune of 2–3% at a working speed of 1.5 km/h. The plant establishment was more than 95%. Saving in labour is 85%. Tractor operated pigeon pea transplanter A tractor operated pigeon pea transplanter was developed, as a new tool for increasing productivity. The row-to-row spacing can be set either 90 cm or 105 cm and plant spacing can be changed by adjusting metering mechanism. The unit weighs 170 kg, and it can be operated by 35 hp tractor under the ploughed soil condition. Its field capacity is 0.13 ha/h with field efficiency of 75.78% and wheel slip of 8.2%. The cost of operation is ` 8,000/ha. The break-even point and payback period are 118 h/year and 0.8 year, respectively. It is recommended for medium and small farmers of pigeon pea cultivation in the country. Participatory promotion of climate smart agriculture machinery in selected village cluster of Madhya Pradesh The climate smart machinery such as roto-till-drill, broad-bed and furrow planter, laser land leveller, ridge and furrow planter and mole drainage technology were identified to overcome the adverse effect of climate change and degrading natural resources. Roto-till drill for wheat and broad bed bund farmer planter was identified for soybean crop. The specific energy for roto-till drill and conventional farming systems are 5.5 and 6.1 MJ/kg of production, respectively.