 To overcome the green fodder deficiency, a simple technique of growing cereal crops like oats, barley and wheat serves dual purpose. It can provide nutritious green fodder with little detrimental impact on the eventual grain and straw yields. Wheat being dual purpose crop has greater potential to produce higher fodder and grain yield for ensuring food security and enhancing farmers’ net income. During the early stage, the crop biomass can be used as green fodder then it regenerates as a normal crop to yield grains. Also, post-harvest dry straw provides major feed resources for dairy production in South Asia and is widely transacted and traded as dry fodder. Keywords: Dual purpose wheat, Fodder, Nitrogen scheduling Indian Farming 73 (10): 11-13; October 2023 L IVESTOCK is the backbone of Indian agriculture which contributes 4.11% to national GDP and 25.4% to agricultural GDP. India supports nearly 15% (535.78 million) of the world’s livestock population. The National Commission on Agriculture recommended that a minimum 10% of the arable area in the country (about 16.5 million ha) should be under improved fodder crops to meet the green fodder requirement but the area under fodder production has been static for last two decades i.e., around 8.4 million ha. This is due to globalization and the area under food crops is more to feed the growing population. These farmers are unable to put the required area under green fodder due to scarce land resources as a result cereal crops get preference over fodder crops and generally, farmers feed livestock with dry fodder and straw which reduces overall productivity of milch animals. Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) belongs to the family Poaceae, is the most important cultivated food crop in the world and the second most important food crop in India after rice. In India, it is cultivated under an area of 31.61 M ha with a production of 109.52 MT. At present, major wheat growing states are Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, Haryana, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh and Bihar. These six states contribute 94% to the total wheat production in India. It is a source of high-quality fodder, rich in protein, energy, and nutrients and low in fibre (Table 1). During the early stage, the crop biomass can be used as green fodder then it regenerates as a normal crop to yield grains. Also, post-harvest dry straw provides major feed resources for dairy production in South Asia and is widely transacted and traded as dry fodder. Table 1. Green fodder and straw quality of wheat Parameter Green fodder (Early vegetative stage) Straw Crude protein (%) 23.3 3 Ether extract (%) 3.4 1 Crude fibre (%) 21.5 35.2 NFE (%) 40.2 50.8 Ash (%) 11.6 10 NDF (%) 58.1 74.2 ADF (%) 29.8 49.6 ME (Mcal/kg) 2.6 1.4 Source: Animal Nutrition Booklet – NDDB (2012) Selection of appropriate variety is an important and decisive factor to realize the optimum yield of green fodder and grains from dual- purpose wheat.