6: Report of the committee to examine recommendations of the Group Meeting of VCs of AUs on 3rd October, 2010 ADG (EQR) presented the report of the committee constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr. S.N. Puri, VC, CAU, Imphal. 1. It was felt that making compulsory provision of two papers in the journals having the NAAS rating of 4 for the candidates having Ph. D. Degree without qualifying NET will put them into further inconvenience. The Chairman requested President, IAUA to bring out consensus on the point through its meetings so that a common solution is derived. [Action: IAUA] 2. For capacity building and motivation of the faculty members of AUs, it was felt to wait for the report of the National Agricultural Education Project Committee. 3. For making the entrance examination pro-rural students, it was suggested by the committee that a certain percentage of questions may be included from practical crop/livestock production. [Action: IAUA] 7 4. For initiating UG programme of 6 years after 10th class the committee recommended it to be included in the agenda of National Consultation for development of National Agricultural Education Project. [Action: ADG (EQR)] 5. The committee recommended flexibility in admissions of B.Sc. (Hort.) in M.Sc. (Ag) and vice-versa with additional remedial courses. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.7: Modernization of AU Farms ADG (EQR) presented the status of mega programme “Modernization of AU Farms”. It was mentioned that the following information is required on priority basis to bring out a review report. 1. Each university may identify one or two or more farms/units where significant improvement (need to be specified) has taken place and they may be called as modern farms/units. How they have or will bring change in instructions to students, research experimentation on technology demonstration, should also be mentioned. 2. Each university to mention 2-3 success stories where the benefits of the implementation of the scheme are visible and quantified/quantifiable. The write- up should be brief, not exceeding 2 pages, and supported with some good photographs. The write-up may include the university farm area, amount of grant received so far by the university (in a sentence), activity/activities, and conclusion. For each activity, the need, intervention made under the scheme, output/benefits (physical as well as financial) and follow-up action may be mentioned. [Action: All AUs] Many VCs voiced the need for continuation of the project in view of the dividends it already started paying in terms of better infrastructure of research, instruction and technology demonstration as well as for resource generation. It was agreed to consider it in the XII Plan of ICAR. Agenda 5.