 It is also proposed to bring out a book on "Indian Agriculture: A Saga of Success-Role of ICAR through Different Revolutions" and get it released during the occasion. The proposed activities and campaigns during the 75 weeks of "Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav" have been compiled to provide a glimpse of our efforts. I hope it would be interesting and informative to all the stakeholders. The feedbacks and suggestions to strengthen our activities in future are welcome. Date: 22nd June 2021 (T. Mohapatra) Place: New Delhi-110 001  1 Background yy The Government has decided to commemorate 75th year of India’s Independence as Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav. The celebrations and campaigns during the year are planned on the identified activities and events on the policy initiatives and technological achievements having impacted India’s growth story-domestically & internationally. These are low cost but people intensive campaigns on dedicated weekly theme for each of the 75 weeks. It shall involve community participation; and social and cultural events, to create awareness amongst masses about the scientific achievements and technological advancements. yy The Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Department of Agricultural Research & Education have planned following major activities to be celebrated during 2021-22 for the commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence: a. 75 Mass Awareness Campaigns on specific themes and commodities, one every week preceding 75th Independence Day. b. 75 lectures from eminent scholars under the theme ‘75th Years of India’s Independence and Agriculture; one lecture every week for 75 weeks c. Documentation of success stories of 75000 farmers on Doubling Farmers Income d. Publication of Indian Agriculture: A Saga of Success-Role of ICAR in Agricultural Revolutions e. Release of 75000 farmers’ success stories document on DFI and Indian Agriculture: A Saga of Success: Role of ICAR through different Revolutions book on 94th Foundation Day of ICAR on 16 July 2022 and a mega scientist-farmer interface. Commencement 12 March, 2021 (1st week) Closing 15 August, 2022 (75th Week) 75 weeks Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav Commemoration of 75th year of India’s Independence 2 A. Mass Awareness Campaign 1. NATIONAL CAMPAIGNS: The All India Campaigns, coinciding with the special occasions of national and international importance, will be organised involving all the ICAR institutes, KVKs, SAUs, farmers public leadership and PRIs. The details are as under: Diversified farming, income and environment sustainability (5) Nutrition, Health & Hygiene in livestock & fisheries (3) Water Conservation Soil Health Organic Farming (3) Participants: Farmers, Fishermen, Fisherwomen, Students, Public Leaders, Teachers, seed producers, input dealers, etc.