 The Assam government is setting up an orchid park in Guwahati in PPP mode. Dendrobiums are popular orchids and enjoy high demand in the market. They are available in different colours and are currently imported from Thailand and reach the Guwahati market through Kolkata. Assam should initially focus on the production of Dendrobium cut flowers in suitable growing areas. Kamrup district in Assam has become a centre of floriculture in the state. Hajo is a satellite town of Kamrup district of Assam has the potential for the growth of an orchid business. According to the National Horticulture Board database, 2018, 5100 ha of flowers are cultivated in Assam and 33.9 thousand MT loose flowers and 56.1 thousand cut flowers are produced. Recently, the Chief Minister’s Floriculture Mission was launched to increase the area under flower cultivation and improve infrastructure for flower growers in the state. Manipur Manipur shares borders with Nagaland to the north, Mizoram to the south and Assam to the west. The international border with Myanmar runs to the east. Physiographically, Manipur consists of rugged hills, valleys and plains. The altitude ranges from 40 to 2994 m above sea level. The climate in the state is temperate throughout the year and the temperature hardly rises above 32°C in summer. The state has the advantage of being India’s ‘Gateway to the East’ through the city of Moreh, as this is the only viable land route for trade between India and Myanmar and other Southeast Asian countries. Both loose and cut flowers are grown in the state over an area of 200 ha (NHB Database, 2018). The climatic conditions in Manipur favour the growth of various flower crops, including orchids. Cut flowers like anthurium, gerbera, roses, carnations, alstroemeria and dendrobium orchids are gaining popularity in the state. Meghalaya Meghalaya borders Assam to the Northeast and the plains of Sylhet and Rangpur Division (Bangladesh) to the southwest. It includes the Khasi Hills, the eastern part of the Jaintia Hills and the western part of the Garo Hills. The state has two major floriculture zones: the temperate zone and the subtropical zone. The entire eastern and western Khasi Hills and the upper parts of Jaintia Hills district fall in the temperate zone, while Ri-Bhoi and the Garo Hills fall in the subtropical zone. The temperature in the state varies from 2 to 36 ºC depending on the altitude. Meghalaya has a monsoon-like climate, but it varies greatly depending on the altitude and physiographic differences of the land mass. While the Shillong plateau (600-2000 m) has a temperate climate, the lower regions bordering the Surma and Brahmaputra valleys (100-300 m) have a tropical climate. The climatic conditions are favourable for the cultivation of various flower crops. However, flower cultivation in the state started only with the launch of the Horticulture Mission. The state has taken several measures to promote flower cultivation in the state.