 Introduction and promotion of cross Heiffer by Artificial Insemination (AI) for increasing income of marginal farmer in all blocks. 8. Improvement of cattle health through vaccination and proper feeding. 9. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/rivulets with Mahaseer or carps at Mohan, Kosi areas and carp at Gaggas, Vinod areas. 10. Popularisation of green fodder crops i.e. sorghum, lobia, maize, oat, berseem etc. in all blocks. 11. Community pasture development at village level. 12. Planning for establishment of Gaushala at block level to rear unproductive cattles to avoid the damage crops in cultivated areas. Strategy 3 : Integrated Farming system Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules for 20 nali’s or 0.4 ha such as : 1. Vegetable based – 18 nali protected cultivation/Offseason vegetable + 2 nali composting and Goatry/ Poultry 2. Protected cultivation (100sqm low cost polyhouse- Capsicum, cucumber, Tomato, nursey raising and cole crops)/ off season vegetable; 17 nali + Composting (30sqm) + Goatry (4F+1M) /backyard poultry (50birds) 3. Live stock based- 10 nali green fodder + 5 nali Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry+ 5 nali Protected cultivation /Offseason vegetable 4. Fodder production (10 nali; Sorghum, lobia-Oat in rainfed or berseem in irrigated) + Mini dairy (Crossbreed05) + Composting (50sqm) + Protected cultivation; 5 nali 5. Crop based- 15 nali crop and vegetable+ 5 nali Dairy, composting and Goatry/ Poultry+ 2 nali Nursery raising Protected cultivation 5 nali 6. Truthfull seed production (Jethi rice, Lentil, onion, radish, frenchbean, Pea); 15 nali + Planting material supply 2 nali + Mushroom + Composting 7. Crop 14 nali (Gahat, madua, soyabean, lentil- 7 nali + vegetable- Cucurbits, French bean, veg pea, tomato, capsicum and leafy vegetables (7 nali)-dairy/backyard poultry; 5 nali +composting (50 sqm). 588 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy 4 : Reducing post harvest losses and value addition 1. Establishment of mini fruit grading plant in Lamgara, Dhauladevi, Hawalbagh, Tarikhet. 2. Establishment of Food and Processing Units at fruit/vegetable Patti i.e. Lamgara, Tarikhet, Sult, Syaldey, Dehghat, Dhauladevi. 3. Establishment of Value addition centre at Takula, Hawalbagh, Dwarahat, Chaukhutiya and Bhaisiyachanna. 4. Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus fruits and vegetables in all blocks. 5. Establishment of marketing chain for efficient/timely supply of produce/product from nyaypanchayat level. 6. Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz. Mini thresher, mini tractor, power tiller etc. in Syaldey, Chaukhutia, Someshwar, Bhaisiyachanna. 7. Establishment of small processing units for tertiary and value addition of local mango in Bhikhiyasein. 8. Establishment of packaging infrastructure at nyaypanchayat level with packaging, sewing, sealing and labeling facilities.