 At ultra structural level, G18 caused reduction in cell-cell communication, endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dilation, loss of integrity in mitochondrial cristae, nucleus and cell cytoplasm of MDA- MB-231 cells, leading to decreased cell proliferation. As the MDA-MB-231 (ER-/ PR-/HER2-) cells are highly metastatic and more aggressive as compared with other for breast cancer clinical type such as MCF-7 (ER+ /PR+ /HER2-), these extracts based natural formulation may serve as adjuvant for TNBC chemotherapy. Based on the results, it was concluded that G18 can be developed as potential drug candidate for triple-negative breast cancer therapeutics. Extracts and purified phytochemicals from Garcinia as cost-effective therapeutics for management of colon cancer: Efficacy of extracts (G1, G18) and purified phytochemicals (GI-PC and GM-PC) were investigated in vitro and in vivo against Colo-205 human colorectal carcinoma on a pre-established subcutaneous tumor of Colo-205 in immunodeficient NOD-SCID mice for development of cost-effective therapeutics and chemoprevention agent. GI-PC and GM-PC caused significant growth inhibition (68% and 75% tumor growth reduction, respectively) of the subcutaneous xenograft tumors of Colo-205 in immunodeficient mice. These compounds exhibited no toxic effect on mice after treatment, based on 100% survival at the end of treatment and no change in animal total body weight. GI-PC and GM-PC could be developed as potential drug candidates for colon cancer therapeutics. Microencapsulated herbal product with ovicidal and larvicidal properties against Ancylostoma duodenale (Hookworm): Despite considerable advances in chemotherapy and control, hookworms rank amongst the most widespread of soil-transmitted intestinal helminths especially in the tropics and sub-tropics. Human hookworms (Ancylostoma duodenale) are among the prominent soil transmitted helminths (STH) with a global burden of nearly 740-1300 million affected cases. The strategy adopted for global control of helminths relies predominantly on mass drug administration (MDA) of anthelmintic drugs to the targeted population. However, similar strategies in the veterinary population have resulted in considerable rates of anthelmintic resistance. About 25% of the global burden of STH infection is contributed alone by India with high prevalence of hookworm infection. Ovicidal and larvicidal properties of microencapsulated herbal products (APSD3 and APSD5) from an Indian medicinal plant were validated on field isolates of A.duodenale. APSD3 and APSD5 exhibited ovicidal and larvicidal properties which were comparable and better than the standard drug albendazole and therefore APSD3 and APSD5 could be explored as potent therapeutic agent for hookworm infection in human. Fruit juice of Garcinia indica Choisy.