 Most of the agro- climatic zones of Asom, West Bengal, Odisha and Jharkhand; coastal and high rainfall hilly regions of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra and Kerala; Tarai zones (low lying wet zones) of Uttrakhand and Uttar Pradesh; and Satpura plateau, Grid region and central Narmada valley of Madhya Pradesh were found to be most suitable for rice cultivation. Contrary to this, scarce rainfall zone of Andhra Pradesh, dry zones of Karnataka, central plateau zone of Maharashtra, Bundelkhand of Uttar Pradesh, western zones of Punjab, northern and southern alluvial zones of Bihar, and northern zones of Rajasthan were among Identification of ACZs for rice production based on water use. Identification of ACZs for wheat production based on water use. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 115 the least suitable zones. Policy intervention in terms of restriction on flooded rice cultivation is required in the latter zones. In wheat, agro-climatic zones of western Rajasthan, Karnataka, Maharashtra, Chhattisgarh and Telangana were in the category of either unsustainable or low sustainable. In Telangana and Karnataka, unsustainability in wheat cultivation does not pose a serious threat as it is not a major crop in the region. However, in Rajasthan and Maharashtra considerable area is under wheat which necessitates promotion of alternative low water requiring rabi crops like mustard, gram, etc. ACZs of Asom, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab and Haryana were found to be most suitable for wheat cultivation. Spread of wheat cultivation in non-traditional state of Asom may reduce the burden on freshwater sources to a certain extent. However, water conservation for supplementary irrigation and strengthening irrigation facilities is required for expansion of area under wheat in the state. Cultivation assisted with technological interventions is advocated in arid and semi-arid zones with high blue water footprints. The findings emphasize a much needed cropping pattern re-alignment across the zones based on water availability and footprints. Structural transformation, regional disparity and institutional reforms in agriculture: Productivity growth in agriculture has improved despite absolute decline in number of farmers and agricultural labourers. To understand the extent of shift from agriculture, especially by the farm households whose major income comes from agriculture, their relative position of occupation was tested in two different years, viz. from 2004–05 and 2011–12 using the information provided in respective integrated human development surveys (IHDS). Results showed that out of all farm households during the year 2004–05, less than two-third (64%) of them continued agriculture during 2011–12. As high as 20% of them turned into wage labourers, in both farm and non-farm occupations.