 However, this needs improvement to meet the international standards. The requirements include improvement to the infrastructure including computer server, network, powerfull firewall, antivirus, antispam and antiphishing software needs to be purchased and installed. Every year a good number of national and international conferences are conducted at TANUVAS. Further, TANUVAS is having working agreement with three US Universities. Hence, if such an advanced facility is available, it will be helpful in providing quality instruction to the students; hence a special grant may be provided for this purpose. This issue would be reviewed by the ADG (ARIS)/DIPA, ICAR. (Action: PD, DIPA) Agenda 10.15: E-Governance OUAT, Bhubaneswar presented the agenda. At present the University has an internet bandwidth of 6 mbps which is required to be expanded to at least 20 mbps to meet the requirement of Central Library, faculties & hostels. Besides, all libraries of all SAUS/ICAR Institutes of the region need to be interlinked. ICAR may consider liberal support for this purpose to all SAU of the region. In order to introduce e-Governance of the University, the ICAR may consider providing funds for complete e-Governance of the University. A uniform policy would be evolved by ADG (ARIS)/PD (DIPA). [Action: ADG (ARIS)/PD, DIPA] Agenda 10.16: Strengthening Library APHU, Venkataramannagudem presented the agenda. Financial Assistance for infrastructure including construction of information centres, provision for library and a mini workshop for repairs and maintenance of vehicles/implements/machinery for Andhra Pradesh Horticultural University is sought. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (ARIS)/PD, DIPA] 29 Agenda 10.17: Providing development grant to Century old Agriculture College, Nagpur and 50 year old Agriculture College PDKV, Akola presented the agenda. College of Agriculture, Akola under Dr Panjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Vidyapeeth, Akola has completed 50 years. The building and structures are now in dilapidated condition and need regular maintenance and renovation. The space in these buildings is also insufficient to meet the demand of increased student strength. The proposal for providing development fund for 50 year old College of Agriculture, Akola needs consideration. KAU, Thrissur too sought funding under this context. The point was noted. [Action: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 10.18: Regarding Mobile Exhibition Van JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. The Krishi Mahotsava programme (Mass scale execution activity) launched by the Govt. of Gujarat was unique in the country. About 285 Krishi Rath displaying various agricultural technologies was prepared. One Krishi Rath covered one district and by this way all the 18000 villages were covered. Thus, Government of Gujarat has tried to transfer agricultural technology to the doorstep of the farmers.