95% in Coastal region. Seasonal prevalence of infection was more in winter (6.22%) followed by the rainy (4.61%) and summer (4.35%) seasons, respectively. In another study, 968 bovine samples from Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar and Andaman and Nicobar island, Himachal Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh, Sikkim, Odisha, Asom, Mizoram and Puducherry were screened for the prevalence of Trypanosoma evansi antibodies using recombinant VSG based indirect ELISA, of which 732 (75.62%) animals showed positivity with the highest (94.5%) in Puducherry, and the lowest (25.58%) in Odisha. Vaccine • The thermo-stable FMDV serotype O candidate strain (Ts-O IND R2/1975) virus was successfully adapted to BHK-21 suspension cell lines. One thermostable mutant virus (O IND R2/1975_Ts1) had similar replication kinetics compared to the parental virus. • Phage lysate candidate vaccines against Brucella abortus and Pasteurella multocida were developed. Brucella phage lysate induced a protective response in mice and guineapig against challenge with B. abortus 544 at a significantly low dose than the dose of S19 vaccine. P. multocida lysate protected birds against all 3 prevalent serotypes A:1, A:3 and A:4 of the pathogen causing fowl cholera. Diagnostics • Indirect IgG ELISA kit for serodiagnosis of Japanese encephalitis infection in pigs. • Latex agglutination test for sero-diagnosis of Japanese encephalitis in pigs was standardized with diagnostic sensitivity and specificity of 82.24 and 87.83%, respectively. • Peptide-recombinant protein based antigen capture immunoassay for detection of rotavirus group A Early detection of subclinical and clinical mastitis Increasing dairy farm size and automation in dairy herd management require new methods and technologies to monitor udder health status in dairy cows. To evaluate the ability of infrared thermography (IRT) technique for the early detection of mastitis, 200 quarters of lactating Karan Fries (Holstein Friesian × Tharparkar) crossbred cows (50) were monitored for body temperature (i.e. eye temperature) and udder skin surface temperature (USST) prior to milking using FLIR i5 (forward-looking infrared) camera. Milk samples were collected from each quarter and screened for mastitis using somatic cell count (SCC), electrical conductivity (EC) and California mastitis test (CMT). Incidence and early detection of subclinical and clinical mastitis was successfully done in eleven quarters out of 200 udder quarters screened by IRT technology and the diagnostic reliability was also well correlated with result of SCC, CMT and EC. Infrared thermal imaging technology could be used as a potential non-invasive, quick cow-side diagnostic technique for screening and early detection of subclinical and clinical mastitis in crossbred cows. Infrared thermogram of eye and mastitis affected udder quarter surface LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 67 infection in animals.