0 Contents also developed . In the high slope area, terraces were prepared on the contour lines, but these deviated from it with the decrease in slope. The triangular pattern of the plantation was done to accommodate maxium number of plants. i Observations were recorded on physical parameters, viz. topography, slope, soil type, soil and water conservation, fertility management, land preparation, irrigation, seed and fertilizer placement, chemical parameters, viz. nutrients and fertilizers, biological parameters, viz. planting method, improved cultivars and pest control. At the end of planted row dug out of 4-5 feet of soil away from the last plant was made to develop a mud wall of the terrace. Line quadrant method was used to evaluate the lay-out plan. The observations were recorded with respect to the existing plantation survival, plant-to-plant distance, plant height and the plant spread. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Contour testing The planting of trees did not follow exactly the contour lines. A deviation, as high as 7.8 m, was observed between the actual contour lines and the planting of trees (Table 3). Likewise, deviations in plant to plant distance, plant height and plant spread were also observed. Important Value Index exercise To study the diversity of species and heterogeneity between SALT and non-S ALT areas under investigation, phyto-sociological studies were carried out for different plant species occurring in those areas. In the non-SALT area, there was much diversity in plant species. In addition to many grasses (12 species), shrubs like Rumex, Rubus, Rosa and Berberis spp. were also found. The ecological success of a species in the area appeared to be a function of its cumulative dispersion, numerical strength and relative dominance values. Minor variations in dispersion or relative dominance failed to affect the order. Higher numerical strength of Rosa spp. in non SALT areas compared with that of Rumex spp. failed to generate a variation in IVI order (Table 4). Species diversity was greatly reduced in SALT Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE managed areas. Ecological success of a species was dependent upon the nature of species associated in the area. It was interesting to note that grass Agropyron canaliculatus was ecologically more successful when grown in association with different grasses and shrubs in non-SALT areas compared with when it was existing in association with apple trees in SALT areas (Table 5). Performance and productivity estimation of the area More than 92% of the trees planted survived. No replanting was done to fill the gaps. Consequently, the plant-to-plant distance varied from 5 to 33 m. The mean plant height of the apple orchard on the slope is 6.57 feet with the range of 3 to 12 feet (Table 3). This indicates that this is a unique attempt and the plantation stock is young.