 The plant causes dermatitis and its leaves are applied to swelling, and contusions. Small tree on much branched shrub, 1.8–3 m high found in open forest on the hills of Deccan and western ghats from Konkan south wards to Kerala, Nilgiri, Palini and Tirunelvelly hills ascending to altitude of 1200 - 2100 m. The flowers are small, yellow in dense terminal globose head. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 356 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 170 Lawsonia inermis Henna H-Mehndi It is used also for dyeing hairs, beard and eyebrows. It is extensively used for dyeing silk or wool. Its leaves are used as prophylactic and against skin diseases. They have astringent properties. They are used externally in the form of paste or decoction against boils, burns, bruises and skin inflammations. Decoction is used as gargle for relaxed sore throat. Glabrous, much branched shrub or small tree with greyish- brown bark. It is cultivated in many tropical and warm temperate region as a hedge plant. The more important centres of production are Faridabad in Gurgaon district and Bardoli and Madhi in Surat district which together accounts for 87% of the total production of henna leaves. 171 Lens culinaris Lentil H-Masur It is mostly used as a dal. The presence of trypsin inhibitor in lentil has been reported. It is a source of commercial starch. A small, erect, softly pubescent herb, 15–75 cm high with compound leaves and white, rose, red or violet flowers. Its cultivation in India is quite ancient.It is grown through out North-India, particularly in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar and West Bengal and to smaller extent in Punjab, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Gujarat. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 357 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 172 Lepidium sativum Garden cress H- Halim B- Halim M-Ahliva G-Asalio Tel-Adalavitulu T-Aliverai Kan-Allibija P-Halim Its leaves are consumed as salad. They are also cooked with vegetable curry and is used as garnish. It is also a medicinal plant and is used in the treatment of asthama, cough and bleeding piles. Leaves are mildly stimulent and diuretic, useful in scorbutic diseases and liver complaints. The root is used in secondary syphilis and tenesmus. The seeds of the plant are rubefacient, galactagogue, emmenagogue, laxative, tonic, aphrodisiac and diuretic. Small herbaceous, glabrous annual 15–45 cm high cultivated as a salad plant through out India. 173 Leptadenia reticulata - H- Dori M- Dodi G- Dori Tel-Kalasa T-Palaikkodi The plant is stimulent and restorative. It is occasionally used in nose and ear troubles. The leaves and roots are useful in skin infection and wounds.