 Observations were recorded on the following parameters: (i) germinations of setts, (ii) number of tillers/plant (iii) number of irrigations, (v) length of cane, (v) weight of single cane, (vi) cane yield, (vii) time of standard brix reading (>180 brix), and (viii) moisture content in soil at the time of wilting of banana plant at 0–15 cm. 15–30 cm and 30–45 cm depths. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Performance of sugarcane by planting banana plant as an indicator for irrigation was found to be superior as compared to without planting any indicator plant. Experiment The number of tillers, internodes/plant, length of cane/plant, cane weight, brix, cane yield and germination of setts were found more in indigenous knowledge-based practice, whereas the number of irrigation requirement was found to be less under ITK method (Tables 1 and 2). CONCLUSION It is concluded that performance of sugarcane by planting banana plant as an indicator for irrigation was found to be superior as compared to that without planting an indicator plant.  PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 368 Title of the ITK : Management of gundhi (harmfull green algae) in paddy field by karada (Cleistanthus collinus) leaves Description of the ITK : Gallfly (Chara) which occurs in kharif paddy fields in stagnant water can be controlled by broadcasting 50_100 kg freshly plucked karada leaves in August. The algae consume oxygen from water of the rice field and produces carbon dioxide that results in yellowing and dwarfing of rice plants. The toxicants present in the karada leaves damage chlorophyll of green algae. This practice has been in use since time immemorial in the Panipila village of Nayagarh district in Orissa. Name and address of the discloser : Shri M. Mohanty, Senior Research Fellow, Agroforestry Wing, Directorate of Research, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar (Orissa) 751003 Location of use of the ITK : Panipaila, Nayagarh, (Orissa) Geographical indicators : Cleistanthus collinus (Roxb.) Benth and Hook f: A small deciduous tree distributed from the Deccan peninsula, northwards up to the Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. Experimenters : Dr (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist and Dr T.K. Dangar, Scientist, Department of Entomology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006 METHODOLOGY Location Efficacy of karada leaf against a harmful green algae in rice was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and experimental methods. The participatory rural appraisal was done at village Panipaila, Nayagarh (Orissa) and the experiments were conducted at CRRI, Cuttack and village Panipaila, Nayagarh (Orissa). Extent and coverage A green algae appears in rice fields in lowland ecosystem. It forms a cushion slowly around the young plant, thereby compressing it and limiting Fig. 1. Cleistanthus collinus plant   PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT become dwarf with yellowing, and leading to tillering.