 There is scope to expand area through organized seed production of high yielding varieties and supply to different parts of the country. Better crop management has to be adopted to realise high yield potential of improved varieties. Policy interventions to promote foxtail millet cultivation can ensure food, nutrition, fodder and livelihood security. Good processing interventions and value-added food products will definitely enhance the profitability to the foxtail millet farmer. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: hari@millets.res.in Renadu (SiA 3223) ATL 1 Garuda (SiA 3222) SiA 3156 High yielding varieties of foxtail millet Water Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 50 January 2023 Barnyard millet: Recent advances and improved technologies B Amasiddha*, M Elangovan, A V Umakanth, K N Ganapathy, K Venkatesh, R Swarna, C Deepika and S Srividhya ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Barnyard millet (Echinochloa frumentacea), due to its remarkable ability to withstand erratic rainfall and varying weather conditions has been classified as one of the drought stress hardy crop. It is largely cultivated in harsh and fragile environments, with minimal use of agricultural inputs. Barnyard millet with rich nutritional profile is one of the best choices for patients with dietary based health defects like diabetic, heart related diseases and celiac diseases. Presently, crop improvement programmes in barnyard millet are targeting recombination breeding, use of molecular markers, tagging genes/QTLs for nutritional qualities, biotic and abiotic stresses, improving/modifying the crossing techniques, mutation breeding to enhance the diversity etc. However, the whole genome sequencing in Indian barnyard millet is necessary to understand its adaptability and dissecting the phenotypic characters at genotypic level and utilizing the information in improving the yield contributing traits to break the stagnated yield levels.