 Vanaraja, composite carp culture, minor carp farming etc. technologies are demonstrated in the adopted villages. Fish based integrated farming system was established in 3 adopted villages for increase in income of farm household through integration of different enterprises. Component I: Enhancing Farmers- Scientist Interface For enhanced capacity building regular farmers-scientist interfaces were conducted. Need based trainings, visits, workshops, Indian Farming 70(11): 30–33; November 2020 Farmer FIRST Programme Fig. 1. Carp Seed rearing Indian Farming November 2020 31 interfaces, extension activities etc. were carried out at regular interval. Demonstrations of new technologies in the adopted villages were also carried out. In the year 2018-19 thirteen field days and five farmer- scientist interfaces were organized from which 414 and 191 farmers were benefitted respectively. Component II: Technology Assemblage, Application and Feedback Recommended technologies from various sources like ICAR-CIFA; OUAT, Bhubaneswar; Odisha State Seeds Corporation Limited; Central Poultry Development Organisation etc. were demonstrated in the adopted villages as per suitability. i. Integrated Nutrient Management in paddy was demonstrated in 15.2 ha of land during 2018-19 Kharif season. Under INM, the following practices were carried out to reduce the use of chemical fertilizer. • Application of Zinc Sulphate @ 25 kg/ha and FYM @ 12.5 t/ha. • Green manuring with Dhaincha (25 kg seed/ha) • Seed treatment with fungicides e.g. Thiram 42% @ 3 g/kg seed • Demonstration of Cono weeder • Use of green manure and FYM reduced the application of chemical fertilizer into half of the recommended dose. • Leaf colour chart developed by ICAR-NRRI, Cuttack used for efficient nitrogen management in paddy ii. Green gram was demonstrated as rice fallow to utilize the available soil moisture after harvesting of rice. Before planting green gram seeds were inoculated with Rhizobium, Phosphobactor @ 250 gm each/10 kg of seed and Trichoderma @ 10 gm/10 kg of seed. Seed dressing was done with Gaucho (Imidaclorpid) @ 1.5 ml/ kg of seed. A powdery mildew resistant variety (TARM 1) was demonstrated which provides yield of 0.625 t/ha. iii. Composite carp culture was practiced in 6 community ponds having an area of 5.33 ha. Lime was applied on the basis of soil and water test. Supplementary feeding was given @ 2% of total biomass. Bigger and healthier fingerlings were stocked after proper acclimatization with the pond environment. Potassium permanganate was also applied as disinfectant to the fingerlings to protect them from different diseases. Fish health was checked through sampling at regular interval. iv. VNR variety of bitter gourd was also demonstrated in the villages and the highest yield of 30 t/ha was recorded. v. Photo insensitive variety of cauliflower (Fujiyama) was introduced for growing in off season. The cultivar gave an Table 1.