66% over micro- catchment. Field bunding increased the dry fodder yield of sorghum by 17.61% over micro-catchment. ● A machine was developed at the IARI, New Delhi, for making feed blocks of the crop residue of gram, mustard, sorghum, barley, wheat, maize grains, groundnut straw, tree leaves and paddy straw. Nearly 30-40 blocks of 100- 150 kg can be made per hour. The cost of product is Rs 360/tonne. The cost of machine that runs with 10 HP motor is approximately Rs 0.4 million. ● Estrus in ewes was detected with the aid of apron rams of high sexual vigour at 6-hr intervals. Ewes standing to be mounted by the apron ram were recorded as in estrus and mated 12-hr interval with a ram (Bharat Merino) of proven fertility. Hill and Mountain Agro-ecosystem Agri-horti production system research ● Fifty-seven promising elite trees of walnut and five of almond identified in Kashmir valley are being propagated vegetatively. ● Survey, tabulation and part analysis of data from 10 watersheds at Uttaranchal, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu and Kashmir and NEH region have NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 195 been completed to determine the methodologies for the development and analysis of watersheds and decision-support systems for interventions. ● Characterization of morphological parameters, land use, land-capability classification and socio-economic aspects in selected watersheds in Dehra Dun, Palampur, Almora and Meghalaya have been completed. Various conservation measures are being imposed and gauging stations to monitor run-off and soil loss etc. have been constructed. Livestock and fish production system research ● Four breeds of rabbit for wool and broiler were procured, and three different feeds were tested for their growth and productivity at Mukteshwar. Rainfed Production System During this period 98 subprojects were implemented with a total number of 442 PIs/CCPIs in more than 150 rainfed target districts across the country. The institutions covered are SAUs, ICAR, GOI, NGOs, general or traditional universities, Government Departments, CGIAR institutes etc. Rice-based production system ● Integrated rice-fish-piggery-duckery farming system showed good adoption among the tribal farmers at Ranchi. ● Growing maize and cowpea together have shown promise for higher fodder yield and improving nutrition. ● In cross-bred cattle, treatment with the Zycloz @10 mg/kg body weight at weekly intervals for 3 weeks proved most successful for control of nasal schistomomiosis. ● In rainfed uplands of Orissa, the intercropping of groundnut + pigeonpea (4:1) proved promising (1.03 tonnes/ha groundnut + 0.46 tonne/ha pigeonpea). – The rice + pigeonpea intercropping was found judicious and beneficial at Ranchi (Jharkhand) and Bhubaneshwar (Orissa). – Integrated weed management (Butchalor @ 1.0 kg/ha) followed by interculture at 30 days proved more economical than the farmers’ practice (twice manual weeding) for this intercropping system.