 The strong institutional canvas established in NER over the years both in agriculture and other sectors is a critical component in nurturing a vibrant spices sector. The major objectives and intervention areas of some of the important institutions like Non-Lapsable Central Pool of Resources (NLCPR), North East Special Infrastructure Development Scheme – Other than Roads infrastructure (NESIDS-OTRI), Prime Minister’s Development Initiative for North-East Region (PM-DevINE), Science and technology Initiatives in the North Eastern Region (STINER), North Eastern Regional Agricultural Marketing Corporation Ltd. (NERAMAC), North Eastern Region Farm Machinery Training & Testing Institute (NERFMTTI), etc., are to give comprehensive support to the horticultural development of the region. The list is not exhaustive and is illustrative of the range of institutional support available in the region. Apart from these, there is a strong network of 84 Krishi Vigyan Kendras, working at the forefront of technology transfer in these states. The strong institutional canvas and the enabling policy environment act as a critical driving force in strengthening the spices sector of the Northeast Region. Technology options for the spices sector Based on the strengths of the sector, it can be seen that the region is poised to leverage the geographical, institutional and policy related advantages available. The availability and adoption of technology shall be critical Table 5. Agro-climatic zones in the Northeast region State Agro-climatic Zones Arunachal Pradesh Alpine Zone, Temperate Sub alpine Zone, Mid tropical hill Zone, Mid tropical plain zone, Subtropical Hill Zone Assam North Bank Plain Zone, Upper Brahamputra Valley Zone, Central Brahamputra Valley Zone, Lower Brahamputra valley Zone, Barak Valley, Hill Zone Manipur Temperate Subalpine Zone, Mild Tropical Hill Zone, Sub Tropical Plain Zone Meghalaya Sub Tropical Hill zone, Mild Tropical Plain Zone Mizoram Humid Mild Tropical hill Zone, Humid Mild Sub- tropical Hill Zone, Humid Temperate Sub-Alpine Zone Nagaland Subtropical Hill Zone, Mild Tropical Hill Zone Sikkim Tropical, Subtropical, Temperate, Sub-Alpine, Alpine Tripura Humid Eastern Himalayan Region Indian Horticulture 70 in deploying a broad based and inclusive growth and development strategy for the spices sector in the NER. The key technology components which can play a vital role in the spices sector are outlined below. Varietal technology: The modern varieties developed in spice crops by various agricultural research institutions are capable of delivering higher yields in the region. Some of the traditional varieties have a low inherent genetic potential and these varieties need to be replaced with modern varieties. Some of the potential varietal options for the region are given in Table 6. Resource conservation practices: Several technologies with a focus on resource conservation have been developed for spice crops.