 Selection of machines vis-à-vis utility, demand, cost and market availability is vital and so is awareness about operation, adjustment, repair and maintenance for optimal performance of machinery. ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal already engaged in development of machines and protocols for different farming operations, besides a two pronged approach – developing skills in farm-machinery management and creating awareness of availability of machines across the country – was implemented in collaboration with Directorate of Agricultural Engineering, Government of Madhya Pradesh. While implementing the custom hiring model and skill development for improving farm mechanization level in Madhya Pradesh, entrepreneurs were given 1-2 weeks training at CIAE, Bhopal by scientists and technical officers, who educated them about the usage and benefits of advanced agricultural techniques. These trainings were provided without any gender bias. The skill development programme included classroom field practical sessions (20% classroom and 80% practical) and exposure visits to other organizations. Each programme essentially included exposure to all the agricultural machines required for carrying out tillage operations, seedbed preparation, sowing-planting and transplanting, weeding & plant protection, harvesting, threshing, straw management and selected post- harvest operations, besides technically correct and safe operation of tractors and its maintenance. Thus, a number of Technological Agents of Farm Machinery have been produced through this model. Scheme details The scheme has been introduced for providing mechanization solutions to small farm holders who cannot afford to have their own machines, and that way to increase the mechanization of agriculture in the state. In order to ensure the availability of complete package of farm machines to the small farmers, the scheme has been introduced with certain measures as following: • Eligibility: Persons below 40 years of age belonging to all categories. An applicant must be a graduate. (Preference to Agricultural Graduates). • Custom hiring centres costing ` 10–25 lakh • Subsidy: 40-50 percent subsidy upto to maximum ` 10 lakh. Subsidy only on loans obtained from banks. “Back Ended Subsidy” (4-years lock-in period). • Each unit should have at least one tractor, plough, rotavator, cultivator, disc harrow, seed-cum- fert drill and one thresher. Besides, selection of other suitable implements can be made on the basis of additional area and crops. • Under the scheme tractors of 35 to 55 horsepower can be obtained. • A centre will have to give tractor and agricultural implements on custom hiring for minimum ten years. • Even if bank loan is repaid within this period, custom hiring services will have to be provided to farmers up to stipulated period. Sanctioned Indian Farming January 2020 20 loan will be recovered in maximum 9 years.