 The paste was squeezed with muslin cloth to get the juice. The leaves of ekdandi (Triadax procumbent) were collected from the premises of Cattle Breeding Farm of Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagpur and the method used for ridge gourd was adopted for obtaining the juice. RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Livestock owners from six districts of Vidarbha region were interviewed in respect of their treatment of animal wound with leaf juice of ekdandi and ridge gourd. The results showed that 48.25% livestock owners are treating animal wounds with local application of ekdandi leaf juice. However, 5.92% of livestock owner on an average are treating wounds by smearing leaf juice of ridge gourd. The number of days required for effecting a complete cure in minor wound with the treatment of leaf juice of ekdandi ranged from 4 to 10 days  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY and in respect of major wound it is 10 to 14 days. Time required for complete cure with treatment of leaf juice of ridge gourd ranged between 6 to 10 days and 8 to 14 days in minor and major wounds, respectively. Experiment A total 196 animals of different species were treated out of which 107 animals were subjected to the ridge gourd treatment and 89 animals were treated with juice of ekdandi leaves in cattle and buffalo. Minor wounds which were treated with juice of ekdandi and ridge gourd leaves took 5.5 days and 7.5 days, respectively for healing. Where as in case of major wounds the average healing time was 10.5 days and 16.5 days, respectively. In case of sheep and goat, the average healing time for minor wound was 6.5 and 7.5 days as against 10.5 days and 12.5 days in major wounds, respectively. In other animals like horse, dog and cat the average healing time for minor wounds was 6 and 8 days whereas in case of major wounds the average healing time was 12 and 17.5 days for ekdandi leaves and ridgegourd leaves, respectively. CONCLUSION The results indicated that treatment of minor and major wounds in different species in animals with juice of ekdandi and ridge gourd leaves took less number of days (5 to 20 days) for complete healing of wounds as compared to animals treated with local antibiotic preparations (7-22 days).  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 279 Title of the ITK : Wound management in cattle Description of the ITK : Kumati (Colocynthis vulgaris) fruit pulp mixed with neem oil is used to control maggot wound in cattle. Maggots are killed by the toxic action of fruit pulp and neem oil acts as repellent for the flies. This technology is in practice for the last five years, adopted by the farmers of Kovilur village of Pudukkottai district in Tamil Nadu. Name and address of the discloser : Permanent address: Shri K. Ganeshan, S/o. Shri Deena Pana Karuppaih, 1/327, Melakkottai Village, Kovilur, Alangudi, Pudukkottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 301, Present address: Shri K.