66%)-treated plants attracted higher oviposition by Chrysoperla carnea in fields and in laboratory. Corcyra scale extracts fortified with tricosane and pentacosane at 0.1% and 0.2% and sprayed on egg cards of Corcyra cephalonica increased parasitization by Trichogramma chilonis in the fields. Highest parasitization of Helicoverpa armigera eggs by T. chilonis was recorded on cotton G-Cot 10 (48.88%), followed by CPD 428 (39.99%). Artificial Diets for Host Insects and Natural Enemies Chrysoperla carnea larvae could be successfully reared on artificial diet for 15 generations with a mean adult emergence of 85.7%; similar to when reared on Corcyra cephalonica eggs (86%). The diet could be stored for 200 days in a refrigerator at 5°C without any deleterious effect on rearing. Toddy palm-leaf powder-based diet has been found promising for rearing Opisina arenosella, providing high percentage of pupation and female-adult emergence. Improved Strains of Natural Enemies Attempts to develop a heat-tolerant strain of Trichogramma chilonis have succeeded after 55 generations of constant rearing at 36 ± 1.5°C, with adaptation to parasitism of 90% and survival > 4 days. Telenomus remus after 30 generations of constant rearing at 34°C gave 72.2% parasitization with longevity of 7.8 days. ‘Endogram’ strain of T. chilonis has now been made tolerant to 0.09% Endosulfan, 0.05% Monocrotophos and 0.002% Fenvalerate. A strain of T. chilonis with high host-searching ability has been selected after 30 generations of selective rearing; it has good host searching ability with 50.6–77% parasitization. Entomopathogenic Nematodes Heterorhabditis bacteriophora, H. indica, Steinernema carpocapsae and S. bicornutum isolates were effective against Spodoptera litura, Agrotis ipsilon, Phthorimaea opercaulella, Plutella xylostella and Opisina arenosella. Progeny production was maximum in Galleria mellonella with H. bacteriophora, recording highest yield. Among Steinernema isolates, S. bicornutum gave maximum yield. Wouts medium was found suitable for mass production in solid medium. Talc- based formulations of S. carpocapsae and H. indica have showed effectiveness in tobacco nurseries against S. litura. Biological Control of Plant-Parasitic Nematodes Two strains of Paecilomyces lilacinus, and one each of Verticillium chlamydosporium and Pasteuria penetrans have been isolated and found effective against root-knot nematode Meloidogyne incognita and reniform nematode l Mass rearing of anthocorid Blaptostethus pallescens on Corcyra cephalonica standardized. l Recorded highest parasitization of Helicoverpa armigera eggs by Trichogramma chilonis on cotton G-Cot 10, followed by CPD 428. l Successfully reared Chrysoperla carnea larvae on the artificial diet, which could be stored for 200 days in refrigerator at 5°C without any deleterious effects on rearing. l Selected a strain of Trichogramma chilonis with high host-searching ability.