 Skill Development Training in Agriculture: To Success Story Popularization of flood tolerant paddy varieties in West Godavari, Andhra Pradesh Lodging due to frequent floods and cyclones, is the main problem in paddy crop grown in West Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh. The yield loss ranged from 50 to 100% based on stage of crop affected. The popular variety in the district is Swarna (MTU 7029),which is highly prone to lodging, leading to huge losses to farmers. The average yields of Swarna during cyclonic situation is around 2.8 to 4.7 t/ha. To combat the problem, the KVK West Godavari (Undi) conducted OFTs and FLDs on flood tolerant varieties MTU 1061(Indra) and MTU 1064 (Amara) and organized trainig for farmers and extention personnel. Besides, information on these varieties were also disseminated through print and electronic media, literature and awareness programmes. FLD on flood tolerant variety MTU-1064 The average yield of MTU 1,061(Indra) and MTU 1064 (Amara) in OFTs and FLDs were around 6.5 to 7.5 t/ha. Practicing farmers were convinced with these varieties and they opined that both varieties withstood up to 10 days in submerged conditions. Besides, quality of grains of MTU 1061 (Indra) was good and fetched higher market price than popular varieties like Swarna and Samba Mashoori. Both the varieties are resistant to biotic stresses like brown plant hopper and blast. Around 30% of total paddy area is now occupied with MTU 1061 and MTU 1064 varieties. The farmers are realising around ` 87,000/ ha as gross income with new varieties against ` 62,000/ ha with old variety Swarna. speed-up the skill development in agriculture sector, the DARE/ICAR signed an MoU with Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship. National Skills Qualifications Framework (NSQF) aligned skills training programmes (945) of 200 hours or more were conducted by KVKs ICAR Institutes/Agricultural Universities benefiting 19,076 rural youth during 2016–19. During 2019–20, as many as 967 skill training programmes have been proposed for training of 19,340 rural youth. Majority of trainings programmes were organized in the job roles of Mushroom Grower, Nursery Worker, Assistant Gardener/Gardener, Bee-Keeper, Vermi- compost Producer, Small Poultry Farmer, Floriculturist- Open/Protected cultivation, Quality Seed Grower, Agriculture Extension Service Provider, Dairy Farmer– Entrepreneur, Aquaculture Worker, Tractor Operator, Organic Grower, Sericulturist and Friends of Coconut Tree. Farmer FIRST: The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) initiative was launched by ICAR to move beyond production and productivity; to privilege the smallholder agriculture; and complex, diverse and risk prone realities of majority of the farmers through enhancing farmers- scientists interface.