 The enterprises are the economic units that operate within the business environment with the objective to create value in market while earning livelihoods and profit out of it. Therefore, the new age entrepreneurs, start-ups find opportunity in whole value chain. But success of these entrepreneurs depends upon supporting environment, a range of technology, support, services etc. In absence of such support, the failure rates of these new initiatives are quite large. Globally, business incubation is being used as a tool to provide the necessary support to increase the chance of success of new firms in the market environment. Business incubation is the process in which new business organisations are created from idea through entrepreneurial, social, and economic development process. Business incubators are the physical space in which business incubation process is carried out. Incubators orient its resources, support services and strength to nurture young firms especially at the initial stage. There are diverse categories of incubators, agri-business incubators are one of them. Agri-business incubators (ABI) serve the new firms in the field of agri-business with focus on value addition, market linkages and value chain developments. Agri-business incubators are unique as they help client in dealing with market linkages, high value business models, uncertainties, technology gap to increase chance of survival and growth of new age entrepreneurs. ABI of ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture is one such incubator where the primary goal is to develop new enterprises in the field of freshwater aquaculture in India. Freshwater aquaculture sector in India has developed only in last five decades primarily driven by wide range of technologies made available by Indian council of Agricultural Research. The aquaculture research was carried out by Pond Culture Division located at Cuttack of CIFRI, Barackpore since 1947 and later converted into Independent institute as CIFA in 1986. Aquaculture technologies were instrumental in building freshwater aquaculture industry in the tune of ` 65,000 crores in 2016-17. The sector is growing at the rate of 6.1% since 1960 and considered as one of the fastest growing sector within agriculture. Economic growth was possible through creation of new enterprises, adoption of technologies and development of aquaculture clusters across the country. The aquaculture business has been ever increasing as many new players are entering into the sector to take advantages in the economic conditions derived due to Indian Farming January 2020 12 high demand and high price situations. The dynamics of the sector is driven by expansion of the market and increase in specialisation and new enterprise creation. Hence, the new value chain is created and entrepreneurs are attracted towards the sector. Within this economic context, the ABI of ICAR-CIFA focussed on new business creations in the freshwater aquaculture sector since 2013.