 It also grows plenty of potatoes, tapioca, bay leaves, ginger, maize and jackfruit. Meghalaya’s turmeric, particularly the variety that is grown in Shangpung in the Jaintia Hills, is considered the best in the world and its curcumin content is as high as 7.5%. One of the areas in which there is tremendous potential for investment and development is food processing. There is ample scope for setting up a large scale fruit processing unit. 372 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 The major food crops of rice and maize, Meghalaya is known for its oranges (Khasi Mandarin), pineapple, banana, jackfruits, temperate fruits like plums, peaches and pears etc. The popular cash crops, which are traditionally cultivated, include turmeric, ginger, black pepper, areca nut. Strawberry, flowers, etc. are grown commerciality. Temperate zones of Meghalaya face climatic barriers against agricultural growth. High soil erosion also reduces fertility. Meghalaya has a very high percentage of cultivable wasteland compared to the total net sown area, indicating the scope for expansion of crop cultivation in the state. Table 1. Agro-climatic Zone wise Technologies Identified for Doubling Farmers Income S No. Agro-climatic Zone Technology 1 Sub tropical plain zone, Mild tropical plain zone and mild tropical hill zone Agri-horti-fish-pig IIFS 2 Sub tropical plain zone and Mild tropical plain zone Paddy (RCM 10/ Gomati)– pea (Arkel/ Praksh) cropping system 3 Subtropical hill zone and Mild tropical hill zone Maize (RCM 76/DA-61A)+ French bean (Anupam) (1:2) cropping system 4 All zones Low cost protected cultivation of vegetables and flowers 5 Subtropical hill zone and Mild tropical hill zone Ginger + soybean (JS-335) intercropping system 6 Sub-tropical hill and Mild tropical hill Double row planting of Pineapple using mulching with black polythene 7 All zones except Sub-Alpine & sub temperate Oyster Mushroom production 8 All zones Low cost water harvesting structure (Jalkund) 9 Sub-tropical plain zone and Mild tropical plain zone Raised and Sunken Beds 10 Subtropical hill zone, Sub tropical plain zone and Mild tropical plain zone Rice- fish farming system 11 All zones except Sub-Alpine & sub temperate Backyard poultry farming with Vanaraja / kroiler birds 12 All zones except Sub-Alpine & sub temperate Low cost improved pig production with Deep litter housing system 13 All zones Vermicomposting for income generation 14 All zones except Sub-Alpine & subtemperate Beekeeping for income generation 15 Sub-tropical hill and Mild tropical hill Ginger candy/slices, turmeric powder, 373 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 18.1 Productivity Gaps and Major constraints Analysis of productivity gap of major crops reveals that the gap between average productivity in farmers’ field and Front Line Demonstration varies from 24-205 %.