 This microclimate within the soil is crucial for soil organisms and plant roots, as it provides the primary source of moisture and some nutrients. It plays a vital role in increasing water availability within the soil, thereby enhancing water- use efficiency for plants. Additionally, it contributes to building resilience against drought conditions by maintaining adequate moisture levels in the root zone. Overall, Whapasa is essential for supporting soil health and promoting optimal plant growth and productivity. • Plant protection involves the application of biological concoctions through spraying, aimed at preventing pest, disease, and weed problems while simultaneously enhancing soil fertility and plant health. Various formulations are utilized for plant protection measures, including Neemastra, Brahmastra, Agnistra, Dashaparni Ark, or Kashaya. These concoctions are composed of natural ingredients and are applied to plants to deter pests and diseases, thereby reducing reliance on synthetic pesticides and herbicides. Additionally, they contribute to improving soil health and fertility, fostering a balanced and sustainable agricultural ecosystem. Initiatives/Programmes to create mass awareness cum capacity building of personnel involved in natural farming • National Workshop on Natural Farming organized at RVSKVV, Gwalior on Dec 3, 2022. • Regional Workshop on Natural Farming organized by KVK Burhanpur, Madhya Pradesh on 27-28 March 2023. • Regional Workshop on ‘Chemical Free Natural Farming in the Present Context: Challenges and Prospects’ held on 9-10 October 2022 at KVK Satna. • National Conference on ‘Next Generation from Chhattisgarh state while 32 KVKs from Madhya Pradesh. Natural farming prioritizes the restoration of soil health, maintenance of biodiversity, ensuring animal welfare, efficient utilization of natural and local resources, and promoting ecological fairness. Key practices essential for the adoption of natural farming includes avoidance of external inputs, utilization of local seeds, emphasizing the use of indigenous varieties, application of on-farm produced microbial formulations (such as bijamrita) for seed treatment, incorporation of on-farm made microbial inoculants (such as jivamrita) to enrich the soil, implementation of cover crops and mulching using green and dry organic matter to recycle nutrients and create a conducive microclimate for beneficial microbial activity in the soil, adoption of mixed cropping practices, promotion of farm diversity through the integration of trees, pest management through utilization of local on-farm made botanical concoctions (like neemastra, agniastra, neem ark, dashparni ark, etc.), integration of livestock (particularly native breeds) for the utilization of cow dung and cow urine as essential inputs for various practices and emphasis on water and moisture conservation techniques.