 Use variety Narendra Arhar-1, Malviya Arhar (MAL-13). yy This is right time for preparation of rice nursery field by incorporating sufficient quantities of manures. yy Right time for Filling of Crop Insurance Paperwork from respective Agency yy Storing of grains in new bags after proper sun drying and treatments yy Farmers are advised to purchase the inputs like seed, fertilizers and fungicide for seed treatment well in advance. 95 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Apply irrigation in mango and litchi plants at weekly interval for proper fruit growth and development. yy For control of mango mealy bug spraying of Dimethoate 30EC @ 1.0 ml/L or Neem oil @ 5ml/L twice at 10-12 days interval followed by 2 spray of Planofix @ 4 ml/10 L water at 10-12 interval to check fruit drop. yy This is the right time setting of pheromone traps in mango orchards for control of mango fruit fly @ 10 traps per ha. yy To control red beetle in cucurbitaceous crops, apply chlorpyriphos 2% dust @ 20 kg/ha near the root zone and mix them properly. yy Prepare the field for sowing of Turmeric and Ginger. Apply 25-30 ton FYM/ha at final ploughing of field and complete sowing by middle of May. yy Fisherman are advised to prepare their own feed from locally available materials like oil cake, undecomposed grains, rice bran, mineral salt etc. (To prepare 100 kg fish feed there is need of 40 kg oil cake, 19 kg undecomposed grain (floor), 40 kg rice bran and 1 kg mineral mixture) yy To maintain the proper water quality, apply lime @ 250 kg/ha and Potassium permagnate 500g/ha. yy To maintain the water colour light green, fill the pond with fresh water as and when needed. yy Harvest only that much quantity which can be sold locally. Beware of gathering of fish while catching and selling the fish and at any cost maintain the social distancing. yy Proper time for vaccination of animal against Theileriosis, FMD and HS disease (above 4 months’ age) and repeat it at every 6 months. yy Sanitize the vehicle/cart used by infected animal, premises, shed and other equipment properly by solution of 2% red potash. Dusting of bleaching powder or lime in the vicinity. yy Wash the infected animal tongue, mouth, feet and nose by 1% red potash or 2% baking soda 2-3 times in a day. 96 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Provide sufficient clean drinking water to animals and keep them in shed to protect from heat stroke. yy Clean the drain of poultry unit alternate day and spray bleaching powder or lime regularly. yy Provide clean and fresh water at least 3 times in a day to poultry. yy Store feed material for 10-15 days only. yy Vaccinate the poultry at specified period. yy If the chick shows symptoms like drowsiness, cough and distorted feet appearing or change in colour of excreta then immediately consult the nearest Veterinarian.