 Conservation and propagation of native breeds of Yak and Zanskari Horse/ Ponies. iv. Up-gradation of Russian Merino Farms, Matho; Mohair Goat Farm, Stakna; Intensive Fodder Development Farm Stakna; Pashmina Goat Farm Khuril (Nyoma); Upshi Pashmina Goat Project and other farms and projects to improve the quality and output efficiency of these farms for enhancing outcome. v. Establishment of Fodder Bank in Zanaskar, Leh and Kargil region to meet fodder requirement of area. vi. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Leh vii. Optimum utilization of goats / sheeps for pushmina /wool production; viii. Establishment of elite mutton type stud rams mother farms. The superior rams produced in these farms can be distributed in niche belts suited for mutton production State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 228 ix. Devising pilot projects in a phased manner for introduction of AI in sheep and goat. x. Promotion of exotic hens having higher laying potential; xi. Production of quality fodder – reclamation of wasteland; xii. Increase egg production through improved variety of backyard poultry. Fisheries i. Development of high altitude Lake Fisheries and introducing Pen and Cage Culture in the State. ii. Cold water fisheries; fish farming, high nutrition fish feeds High yielding fish strains. iii. Fish processing and storage iv. Increasing hatching and rearing space for production of quality carp and trout seed in the existing hatcheries/fish farms of the department. v. Development of Recreational Fisheries (Sport and Ornamental Fisheries) vi. Reclamation of hitherto un-exploited areas for development of Fisheries vii. Development of Sport Fisheries Ladakh Regions. viii. Development of Marketing Facilities for fish and fish product by way of establishment of Wholesale /Retail Fish Markets. ix. Introduction of Cold storage facilities for maintaining the hygiene in the Marketing of fish Strategy 2 : Access to market for better realization of farmers’produce i. Promotion of farmer producer organization (FPOs); ii. Promoting special commodity markets; iii. Establishment of platform where farmers can be connected to e-market; iv. Adoption of contract farming; v. Public Private Partnership in creation of farm level infrastructure; vi. Strengthening value chain; vii. Use of ICT in marketing; viii. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level. ix. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for better prices. x. Establishment of strong linkages with various stake holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. xi. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at panchyat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. xii. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. xiii. Establishment of cold room in different clusters State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 229 Strategy 3: Policy support i. Amendment of APMC ii.