 The first picking should be done between 50-70 days after sowing. The second picking is to be done between 90-100 days of sowing and the third picking should be done 130-150 days after sowing. When the entire plants are removed, the harvested produce consists of both leaves and pods. The harvested produce is to be kept in an open field for about 6-10 hours to reduce the moisture. Later the product should be dried on a clean floor or on a tarpaulin sheet under the shade for 10-12 days to complete the drying process. The harvested produce should be turned frequently to avoid heat and ensure the light green to yellowish green in colour of the dried leaves and good quality produce. The collected pods are dried in the shade, and the seeds are separated by beating the pods with sticks. The leaves are stripped manually by beating on the floor and stems and stalks are separated. Rapid mechanical drying at 45℃ is also advantageous for obtaining quality produce. Later the grading is done based on the size and colour of the produce. Larger leaves and bold pods with yellowish green colour are of higher grade which fetch a premium price in the market while the next grade is leaves and pods with a brownish colour and lowest grade is small and broken leaves and pods. In general, the sennoside content of 2-2.5% in the leaves and 2.5 to 3.0% in pods is acceptable to the herbal industry. The seed is to be removed by threshing the pods and the seed does not contain sennosides. The produce is baled under hydraulic pressure as per the standards and wrapped in gunny bags, and kept in cool and dry ventilated sheds. Under the irrigated condition, 15 q/ha dry leaves and 7 q/ha pods of senna were obtained whereas, under the rainfed condition, the 10 q/ha dry leaves and 5 q/ha dry pods may be obtained under good management. The market price for the senna leaves is ` 70/kg and for pods ` 80/kg. The market price is unsteady and unorganized, and changes substantially and yearly. SUMMARY Senna is an important medicinal plant widely used in the traditional system of medicine for the treatment of habitual constipation due to its leaves and pods containing sennosides A, B, C, and D having laxative properties. It is a hardy crop and a low-input demand crop. Generally, it is grown as a rainfed crop and it can tolerate water scarcity. About 80% of the domestic production is exported to the United States and other countries like Germany, Italy, Netherlands, Canada, Mexico, Australia and Japan, etc. India is the largest producer and exporter of senna in the world market. Because of the non-availability of synthetic sennosides in the market, the demand for natural sennosides is increasing in Western countries. Therefore, it is a great opportunity for Indian growers to cultivate senna in the arid and semi-arid regions of India.