 After critical observations presence of plants having cream petal with yellow pollen and few plants having cream petal with cream pollen were also observed. Therefore plants having cream petal with cream pollen were discarded. 32. Dr Katageri, if something went wronglhappened T:YT. generation, then why was it not detected during the advancement of generations up to Ts and seed production plots before commercialization? I was not aware of anything wrong that happened in BN Bt event until 2009. 33. How (we mean by open pollination in isolation or by selfing) and where did you produce seed of'BN Bt' during 2008? BN Bt seed was produced in different research stations belonging to UAS, Dharwad under 50 M of isolation during 2008. - - - - - - - - ... - - - 34. What was done to the seeds of BN Bt received from CICR during 2008? It was not used in further any other programmes. 35. Did any of your other colleagues/collaborators/test centres inform UAS/CICR about variation for petal colour before commercialization? Director, CICR,Nagpur on his visit to Surat, received feedback on variation in pollen colour and the same was communicated to Dr. I.S.Katagei. 36. Did you get information about segregation for other traits before commercialisation? The BN Bt variety was uniform with respect to all other characters even including petal colour. However, few plants having cream pollen instead of yellow were observed. 37. Dr Khadi, so you got input about variation from your collaborators/test centres at Surat, what action/corrective measures did you take? During my visit to Cotton Research Centre, Surat, Scientist informed me about variations in pollen colour and the same was informed to Dr. Katageri for further needful. 38. Dr Kartageri, please explain in details the corrective measures yon took? No variations with respect to petal and pollen colour and plant height were noticed. However Dr B.M.Khadi Director, CICR,Nagpur suggested to observe for any variations in pollen colour. After critical observations presence of plants having cream petal with yellow pollen and few plants having cream petal with cream pollen were also observed. Therefore plants having cream petal with cream pollen were roughed out. 39. Should not one have grown plant-to-progeny testing to clean up the material? Plant to progeny row was followed for maintaining the uniformity. 40. Why was commercial seed production taken without taking any proper corrective measures (growing plant-ta-progeny)? Plant to progeny rows were also maintained with no variations for plant height and petal colour. 41. When did you come to know about contamination ofBN Bt with MON 531 event? Dr. Anand Kumar Director NRCPB New Delhi informed in Aug, 2009 about the presence of Mon-531 based on his field sample survey. 42. When talking about purification, when did you identify the plants carrying BNLA 60I event and how? It was possible to identify BN Bt plants not carrying Mon-531 in Jan, 2010.