 The State and the Central development department have been looking at KVKs for scientific interventions. There should be adequate focus on developing such linkages without affecting the basic mandate of the KVK system evolved over a period of time. The recommendations of this study and of the previous studies synthesized indicate continuation and thereby strengthening the KVK system further. 8. Future roadmap As ICAR shall be completing 100 years in 2029, KVK system 50 years in 2024, it is proposed for converting 50 years old KVKs into new institution of excellence named level- District-level Institute of Scientific Agriculture (DISA). 8.1. Skill development/capacity building Commercial agriculture requires added extension services for which reorientation of existing extension system is required, including incorporating banking and financial institutions, cooperatives, etc. as extension platforms. ICT has taken over as a biggest medium to deliver farm advisory to farmers across the country. Human interface is required for interpretation, dissemination and delivery of ICT messages to client farmers for which extension workers need to be adept in handling of ICT tools. Market led extension should be given priority and farmers need to be taught to e-market their produce. Appropriate skill training of extension functionaries is needed and it is possible only through policy Indian Agriculture after Independence 354 interventions. It is also suggested that regular positions should be filled by well qualified agricultural science graduates available across the country. 8.2. Creation of a national level farmers’ database The KVKs and other extension agencies send farm advisory through mobile messages and even through web portals. Most of such messages are sent in bulk to the farmers and are not farm specific and need based. In order to send farm specific messages extension workers should have access to the details of each farmer. The creation of a National Farmer Database of resource endowments, crops grown and operations, areas under cropping may immensely help in agricultural research and extension and providing farmer specific farm advisories. Although part of such data base is already available in PM Kisan, PMFBY and Agriculture Credit, and soil health card scheme. These are AADHAR seeded data. All these can be integrated to create the national level database. 8.3. Strengthening technology backstop ping backstopping institutions Technology backstopping can be strengthened by establishing a four-way mode of communication, between labs, from land to lab and lab to land, and between farms. Every village can be facilitated by an Agri-Clinic and Abri-business Centre (ACABC) to offer the farmers doorstep service and also generate employment in the rural areas. The technical backstopping of the Farm Tele-Advisors needs strengthening and number of KCC can be increased.