 (a Government of India enterprise) Agrinnovate Innovations & startup support Agrinnovate Enterprise Scale up Special scale up efforts Market linkages through products Agrinnovate Tech Agrinnovate Enterprise Scale up Technology transfer through Licensing Domestic International Indian Farming January 2020 59 the licensees get validation of their products and also assured market of quality products, at the same time an assured income for the organization. Agrinnovation and start up support: This arm of the integrated system would help promote startups through technology or business incubation models. The system would involve a specialized selection process ad according financial support and also equity-based participation. Other components on need based capacity building, entrepreneurial development support and technology enabling facilities for both domestic and foreign could effortlessly get added to this arm. Such models are already in existence across the world and have proven to be successful. Converting such a set up into a status of ‘federation’ would be the way forward for delinking the commercial wing from the existing system and making it a truly corporate arm. 1CEO, 2,3,4Business Manager, Agrinnovate India Limited. Corresponding author's e-mail: Sudhamys@gmail.com. portal where all the potential technologies from within the NARS (ICAR institutions and SAUs) will be listed and marketed through other digital platforms for large scale domestic and foreign licensing. Such a centralization would also help make the system leaner and more effective by reducing the number of ‘active technology transfer offices’ in the system. In addition to the existing ‘non- exclusive’ licensing process, this would also include new initiatives such as ‘limited exclusivity’ based on geographic location and time. Agrinnovate Enterprise Scale up: This arm of the integrated system would identify potential enterprises involving technology back up for specialized scaling up process. Agrinnovate would provide the much-needed financial support and help scale up the commercial production process, thereby, paving way for enhanced income for the organization. This could also include large scale production or sourcing of IP enabled technology products for supply. Such an initiative would help pepped up to take additional responsibilities of initiating national and international level capacity building programmes and facilitate financial support for innovations and incubation in the future through an integrated system proposed here with. Proposed integrated system for efficient management Keeping in view the diversity of technology needs, a centralized model that encompasses an integrated approach to be promoted as a unique Government of India enterprise that integrates existing mechanism of technology transfer, incubation and start up support and at the same time indemnifies the organization at large.