 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3449 Use of queen termite extract to cure sickness in bullocks 3450 Increasing appetite of animals with a mixture of black salt, ajwaine, turmeric and fenugreek 3451 Increasing appetite of animals with a mixture of kalkatia leaves, salt, onion and chokar (wheat bran) 3452 Treatment of lack of appetite in animals with a mixture of black salt, ajwaine and wheat flour When bullocks are suffering from sickness, in such a condition people in Keshkal block of district Bastar in Chhattisgarh follow this practice. About 8-10 queen termite insects are collected from wild area and after grinding it is given with the bread twice daily for one month. By using this practice about 70-80% problem of health and sickness of the bullock is cured. Keywords: sickness, bullocks, queen termite Cattle owners of village Pachhomi of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) roast black salt, ajwaine, turmeric and fenugreek (50 g each). The mixture is ground to make powder, and mustard oil is added to it, which is given as a supplement to the cattle for increasing its appetite. Keywords: black salt, ajwaine, turmeric, fenugreek, mustard oil, appetite Cattle owners of village Khirka, district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) boil kalkatia leaves (five) and mix onion (100 g) and salt (100 g). The ultimate mixture is fed to the animal for increasing its appetite. Keywords: salt, appetite, kalkatia leaves Cattle owners of village Khai Khera of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh prepare the powder of ajwaine (25 g) and black salt (100 g). This mixture is mixed with wheat flour and fed to the animal twice a day, which increases the appetite. Keywords: black salt, ajwaine, wheat flour, appetite Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Md. Sabir, S/o Shri Mangali Shah, Pachhomi, Faridpur, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Tek Chand, Pachhomi, Faridpur, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Miyan, S/o Shri Raihis Khan, Khai Khera, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3453 Use of salt and wheat flour to increase appetite in animals 3454 To Increase appetite in animals with ajan, ajwaine (Trachyspermum ammi) and balck salt 3455 Easy calf delivery 3456 Treatment of dog bite with kokranda (Carrisa carandas) and buttermilk 3457 Use of akawua for treatment of dog bite in animal Chapati of wheat flour is prepared by adding a little salt. It is given twice daily to the animal as a good appetizer. This ITK is followed in village of Bichuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.