com Indian Farming 8 March 2024 Indian Farming 9 March 2024 Empowering farmers A comprehensive guide to KVK Portal of ICAR U S Gautam1, R R Burman1*, Sujeet K Jha1, Alka Arora2, Sudeep Marwaha2, Soumen Pal2 and Naseeb Choudhary3 1Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR-HQ, New Delhi 110 012 2ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 3Chaudhary Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar, Haryana 125 004 This article delves into the transformative role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), operating under the aegis of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), in elevating the socio-economic status of farmers across India. As integral component of the National Agricultural Research System (NARS), KVKs serve as dynamic knowledge and resource centres, focused on the assessment, refinement, and dissemination of location-specific agricultural technologies. The Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) portal, developed by the ICAR, designed to provide farmers with a plethora of resources and services stands out as a beacon of innovation. Through on-farm demonstrations, technology assessments, and capacity-building programme, KVKs facilitate to empower farmers with the latest advancements in agriculture. The collaborative efforts of KVKs with public, private, and voluntary sectors underscore their comprehensive approach to improve the agricultural economy at the district level. The current arcticle explores the multifaceted functions of KVKs, emphasizing their pivotal role in connecting research initiatives with the extension system and farmers. Moreover, this arcticle serves as a comprehensive exploration of how KVKs, as catalysts for agricultural innovation, contribute to the holistic betterment of farmers and the sustainable development of Indian agriculture. Keywords: Extension, Farmer, Knowledge hub, Portal I N an era, where technology plays a pivotal role in transforming traditional practices, the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) portal, developed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), stands out as a beacon of innovation. This online platform, accessible at https:// kvk.icar.gov.in/, is designed to provide farmers with a plethora of resources and services aimed at enhancing agricultural productivity and promoting sustainable farming practices. Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) plays a pivotal role in the agricultural landscape of India, serving as a knowledge and resource hub for farmers. Under the aegis of the ICAR, these centres are instrumental in disseminating advanced agricultural technologies, providing hands-on training, and conducting on-farm demonstrations. This article delves into the significance, functions, and impact of Krishi Vigyan Kendra’s in the context of Indian agriculture.