7%, while it was 97.0 to 97.5% with the earlier Indian PRRSV isolate – Ind- 297221/2013 and Myanmar isolates; 93.5% with classical genotype 2 isolate VR-2332 and 69% with genotype 1 virus LV. The genetic analysis of ORF-5 and ORF-7 revealed that the Indian PRRS viruses could have evolved from the Myanmar viruses. Fisheries Nano system for intracellular delivery of biomolecules: Delivery of gene into fish cells is a challenging task as fish generally have a lower body temperature than mammals. A hybrid peptide nano system (RR28) was designed from infectious pancreatic necrosis (IPN) and betanoda viral proteins using bioinformatics tools. RR28 interacted with the plasmid DNA (pDNA) and formed non covalent complexes with it. The peptide based nano system may be an alternate DNA delivery vector for fish cells and can also provide insights into transfection of fish cells with peptide. In recent years, cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) have shown its potential to deliver various cargos that includes protein, DNA, RNA and antisense molecules into live cells in a non- toxic manner. Seven cell-penetrating peptides (CPPs) were designed/ identified from fish viral proteins. These peptides can be modified to make suitable peptide based delivery vectors for various biological applications. Vaccine against Flavobacterium columnare infection: Flavobacterium columnare, a Gram negative bacteria, is ubiquitous in various freshwater aquatic environments and causes columnaris disease in fishes. It is associated with stressful conditions like rapid fluctuation of temperatures, elevated organic loads, high stocking density and excessive handling. F. columnare causes acute to chronic infections and affects gills, skin Viral metagenome profiling of Antarctic animals, birds and environment Metavirome profiling of fecal samples of Weddell Seal, Adelie penguin and South Polar Skua as well as from Ornithogenic Soil of Penguin rookery from Antarctica collected during the 37th Indian Scientific Expedition to Antarctica was done. Diversity and abundance analysis revealed the presence of 416, 584, 550 and 727 different viruses across 41, 57, 55 and 60 different virus families in fecal metavirome of Adelie penguins, Weddell seal, South polar skua and ornithogenic soil, respectively. Apart from this, each sample had huge numbers of bacteriophages of several families indicative of the bacterial loads harbored in them. New Castle Disease virus genome (58% of whole genome) was also detected in the metavirome of ornithogenic soil. Phylogenetic analysis of the F gene indicated it as genotype VII of class II viruses. The presence of cleavage site RRQKRFI indicated that it is a highly pathogenic virus. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 84 and fins, and in particular, dorsal fin and surrounding skin are often exaggerated, causing saddleback lesions. Its outbreak may result in 50–80% mortality in fishes. An inactivated vaccine against F.