050 NS 0.081 NS 0.25 NS 2.044 NS T1 = conventional tillage (cotton) – conventional tillage (maize) – Fallow (No Sesbania rostrata), T2 = conventional tillage (cotton) – zero tillage (maize) – zero tillage (Sesbania rostrata), T3 = zero tillage (cotton) + Sesbania rostrata residues (SrR)– zero tillage (maize) + cotton residues (CR) – zero tillage (Sesbania rostrata) + maize stubbles (MS), T = TillIage, W=Weed management, IWM=Integrated weed management, CD (P = 0.05) = critical difference at 5 % probability level, NS = non-significant, SE(m) = standard error of the mean. K. Nthebere et al. Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 5 6. System yield in terms of cotton equivalent yield Grain yield for maize in each net plot was recorded by weighing air-dried produce at 14 % moisture content before threshing and expressed in kg ha−1. The system yield was computed in terms of cotton equivalent yield considering monsoon seed cotton and grain/ kernel yield after 3rd-year of the experiment (Supplementary Table 5) as under (Equation (2)): Fig. 1. Impact of tillage practices and weed management options in conservation agriculture (CA) on soil microbial biomass carbon (SMBC) and β-galactosidase activity (β-GaA). Means having distinct letters demonstrate significant variances between the treatments at 5 % probability level (Duncan multiple rank test) and means having the same letters indicate no significant variances among the treatment means at 5 % probability level. Refer to Supplementary Table 1 and Table 2 for treatment details. K. Nthebere et al. Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 6 System CEY ( kg ha−1) = Economical yield of a maize crop ( kg ha−1) x Price ( RS Kg−1) of same crop i.e., maize Pr ice ( RS Kg−1) of cotton (2) 7. Statistical analysis The two-way ANOVA for split-plot experiments was used to discriminate and examine critical difference among the treatment means for their significance at 5 % probability [43]. Duncan multiple rank test (DMRT) was also performed to rank the treatment means at 5 % probability level. Pearson’s correlation coefficients and principal component analysis (PCA) were performed in SQI CAL software (a tool for soil health assessment) developed by Mohanty [44] to find the relationship between system cotton equivalent yield, AMF colonization percentage, glomalin related soil protein (GRSP) and some soil quality related parameters (SOC, SMBC, β-Galac­ tosidase activity and water stable aggregates size of 1–2 mm), and to identify the selected variables from respective PCs that could be considered for assessing the soil quality as influenced by conservation agricultural management practices (tillage and weed management). 8. Results 8.1.