 Grading to uniform sizes will increase the market value both in domestic and export markets. sensor controlled aeration unit and fumigation unit was developed. The structure was evaluated for storage of rabi onion harvested in April. The storage study was conducted up to harvesting of kharif season onion, i.e. till second week of October. The results indicated 9.97% weight loss, 1.73% rotting and 0.16% sprouting in the stored lot of onion at 120 days storage. This is much less than 18.75% weight loss, 13.22% rotting and 1.92% sprouting as reported by other studies for same storage period. Further, over a period of 180 days, the losses were recorded as 20.30% weight loss, 5.07% rotting and 0.67% sprouting. The storage structure is rust proof and hence expected to have long life and durability. Since the aeration and fumigation units are required intermittently for one storage unit, the same can be used to serve multiple storage units of similar capacity. Approximate cost of the structure with sensor network (excluding blower) is about ` 16,000. Moreover, time required for filling up and emptying the storage bin is about 0.83 man-h/t and 0.4 man-h/t, respectively, as compared to 1 man-h/t and 3 man-h/t in case of conventional structures. Abrasive pre-treatment machine for grape berries: A novel abrasive pre-treatment system was developed for grape berries for the production of chemical free (organic) raisins. The protrusions of abrasion provide superficial abrasion with removal of waxy (cuticle) layer of grape berries that obstructs drying. The machine has a capacity of about 150 kg/h. The drying time for different varieties reduced from 4 to 7 days in solar tunnel dryer and 2 to 3 days in hot air drying (temperature 50°C) compared to existing method that requires around 15 to 20 days for preparation of good quality raisins. Nowadays consumers are more conscious about health and demanding safe and organic food, and the developed machine has potential applications for the preparation of organic raisins. Infrared pre-treatment system for pulse milling: Removal of husk from cotyledon is the foremost requirement to utilize legumes as dals. The husk is tightly bound with cotyledon. Therefore, pre-treatment is necessary for loosening of the bond prior to milling. Hydro-thermal treatment, one of the commercially used treatments, is time consuming, resource intensive process and also requires space and energy for drying. A controlled heat based infrared pre-treatment system was developed, which is a more cost-effective option. The equipment has provisions for controlling exposure time and power density/heat flux of the treatment. The same prototype could be used for infrared treatment of multiple Manually operated small onion grader Onion de-scaler: Individual onion is cleaned with removal of its dry peel and infected onions during storage and marketing of onions. The manual operation is labour intensive and time consuming.