 To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 64 January 2025 Emerging technologies in farm mechanization for rainfed agriculture I. Srinivas*, Ashish S. Dhimate, Ravikant Adake, B. Sanjeeeva Reddy and V. R. Mallikarjuna ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Labour availability for agricultural operations is reducing day-by-day. As a result, there are increasing trends in labour charges, which affect the cost of production in a significant way. In rainfed agriculture, timeliness and precision of each agricultural operation is important for successful crop production. Further, rainfed agriculture is more vulnerable to climate change impacts. This warrants mitigation measures. In this context, farm mechanization with appropriate farm machinery is very pertinent. Recently, farm mechanization in rainfed agriculture is increasing to reduce the cost of cultivation and also to enhance the productivity. Precision agriculture with additional features is gaining popularity as its relevance becomes more obvious. Various emerging technologies have been developed to enhance the sustainability, production, and profitability in a precise way.