 Strip for the detection of antimicrobial resistant Escherichia coli in mastitis milk: A strip assay was developed to detect antimicrobial resistant E. coli in mastitis milk using a specific enzyme- substrate reaction principle. This will be helpful for field-based E. coli infection detection and assessing AMR profiles in mastitis milk. A Latex agglutination test was developed for LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 93 detection of B. anthracis spores from soil and animal feed supplements. Equines Glanders surveillance: A total of 29,393 equine sera received from 17 states under glanders surveillance programme were tested. Out of these, 130 glanders positive cases were reported from Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Uttarakhand, Madhya Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Gujarat, Delhi, Maharashtra and Rajasthan. Surveillance and monitoring of equine infectious diseases in India: A total of 2,567 equine serum samples from 11 states were tested for various diseases like equine infectious anaemia (EIA), equine influenza (EI), equine herpes virus-1 (EHV-1), Japanese encephalitis/ West Nile virus (JEV/WNV), Trypanosoma evansi (Trypanosomiasis), piroplasmosis, Salmonealla Abortus equi and Brucellosis Table 2. Highest sero-prevalence were observed for equine piroplasmosis (26.13%) followed by EHV-1(12.07%), JE/WNV (4.28%), and Trypanosoma evansi (1.98%). Foot and mouth disease Sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring: Under FMD sero-surveillance, 72,308 bovine serum samples collected across the country were analyzed using the r3AB3 NSP-ELISA (DIVA) to determine the apparent prevalence of NSP-antibody (NSP-Ab) in the bovine population. For post vaccination sero-monitoring, a total of 92,306 serum samples were examined using Solid Phase Competitive ELISA (SPCE) under NADCP to assess the efficiency of immunization. In addition, 10,515 serum samples received from various Breeding Bull stations and surrounding villages were also tested to assess the herd immunity. In vitro assay for FMD vaccine quality control: A universal in vitro antigen-quantification test for quality check of FMD vaccines using a pan-serotypic VP4 antibody was optimized. The assay is specific for 146S and does not react with the poorly immunogenic disintegrated antigen (12S). Altogether, VP4 based assay (for type O and A) and 146S specific mAb assay for type Asia 1, have the potential application in the quality control of FMD vaccine, and as in-process control during the vaccine manufacturing. Alternative methods for FMD vaccine potency testing: The use of guinea pig (GP) model and serological assays were evaluated. Experiments on synchronized cattle and guinea pig were carried out, using 10 batches of FMD vaccine to generate data. The challenge infection of cattle with homologous FMDV serotype O Indian vaccine strain was carried out in an animal bio-containment laboratory for three batches of vaccine.