 Usually formal channels for seed transactions encompass traders in the district market yards, seed exchanges through private dealers and distributors, and seeds marketed by private companies, which are branded, the transactions are monetized, and those Indian Farming 77 January 2023 engaged in the business are usually full-time traders. In contrast, in informal system, traders operating in weekly village markets, are part-time traders and seeds traded here are not branded, since they originate from farmers from surrounding villages or communities. To some extent, the seeds are identified by their village name or, in some cases, for e.g. by the farmer’s name (if the farmer is reputed in the locality for the quality of seeds). The seed exchanges are monetized but the prices are not based on the existing market prices, nor are they fixed, they vary according to the demand and quality (physical purity) of the seeds. Seed dealers/distributors in the formal seed supply chain are a vital link between the formal seed producing firms and farming communities. by the vibrant formal seed system by private sector seed companies and public sector seed agencies like National Seeds Corporation (NSC) and state seed development corporations in different states and Mahabeej in Maharashtra. In the case of post-rainy season sorghum cultivated on black soils under residual moisture condition, open-pollinated varieties are the cultivar choice because of stringent quality considerations, lack of appropriate hybrids, inadequate hybrid seed production, and supply chain. High-yielding and improved cultivar seed availability is not a constraint in kharif sorghum, but the major issue in post-rainy season sorghum in India is that majority varieties are age old and still ruling the major area under cultivation. Most notable local varieties popular among the farmers include M 35-1 (Maldandi) and Dagadi grown by 80–90% of farmers in India. M 35-1, a landrace selection from Maldandi, cultivated traditionally by the farmers in these areas for several decades, was selected in 1938, nearly 75 years ago, and is still dominating the post-rainy season tracts (Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh) in India. Pearl millet seed system Pearl millet seed system in India is dominated by formal seed system. More than 90% seed share is by private seed companies which mainly includes hybrids. Role of public sector is minimum. The low-income farmers, located mostly in water-scarce areas such as western Rajasthan, largely rain-dependent grow open pollinated varieties (OPVs) in the rainy season. Certain sections also have strong taste preference for OPV seed use. About 80% farmers purchase and re-use OPV seeds, as hybrids are unsuitable in water-scarce regions. Nevertheless, 20% farmers still use hybrids decision drivers. Small millet seed system Small millet seed system is mainly dominated by informal sector (>90%) (Table 1).