 Besides utilizing videos for raising awareness, dissemination of information on technologies with wider reach of successful experiences with agricultural technologies, these may be put to use for capacity building also. For achieving enhanced comprehension among farmers, 114 videos modules on critical pulse production technologies and successful experiences of partner farmers have been prepared, validated and well treated for enhancing the comprehension among users. This includes videos in Hindi, Bengali, Marathi, Kannada, Tamil languages for wider reach among pulse growers of the country. These video modules are also made available on YouTube channel named ‛ICAR- IIPR Pulse Farmer Corner’, created for the purpose. The channel has reached 203,386 views with about 3420 subscribers. Drones for enhanced efficiency Drones in agriculture offer a range of benefits of increased efficiency, improved yields, and reduced costs to farmers. It is considered as a green technology that helps counter issues of unavailability and high cost of labours, safer option for spray of agro- chemicals in the fields to farmers. In addition, drones in agriculture also provide opportunities to provide employment to people in rural areas. Drones can efficiently cover large fields for application of agro-chemicals, allow farmers ICAR-IIPR Pulse Farmer Corner Drone spraying on crops Indian Farming 18 February 2024 to effectively monitor crops for the areas that require attention. These all benefits may contribute to reduced costs for farmers. In view of the benefits of drone technology, institute has also geared towards popularizing the use of technology in agriculture by conducting demonstrations of drone spraying in fields of partner farmers. A number of demonstrations on safe spray of agro-chemicals in farmers’ fields are being carried out and Institute is targeting to cover a large number of farmers with drone technology in the near future. Radio Program- ‘Dalhan Pathshala’ Radio is an age old digital tool that is popular for accessibility and affordability features for providing information, news, and entertainment to listeners. Radio has also been put to use for connecting farmers to agriculture specialists and technology developers, targeted for supporting farmers for taking informed decisions related to farming. Need-based radio programs have also been used as a complementary tool for extension that complements the existing agricultural information systems. Radio programmes in local vernacular languages, connects the wide range of farming communities to the experts. These programs supports people based in remote areas, having varying literacy levels, and those have difficulty in connecting to the formal extension machinery.