 Over- all, the compass analysis indicates that although cleansing of the Ganges has been a national priority for decades which is promoted in plans and pol- icies, farm practices have intensiﬁed and further contribute to polluted and sluggish river ﬂow (F). The degree to which this reorientation unfolded was very small as plans were in place but agricultural water management did not change to support the shift in societal priorities from agricultural inten- siﬁcation to clean river ﬂow. This summary highlights typical slow re- sponse times in water quality and an exceptional rapid response time when nearly all pollution sources are closed. The zero-sum nature of the water balance is also clear as agricultural evapotranspiration strongly in- creased which led to declining groundwater resources and river ﬂow. The path-dependency of agricultural intensiﬁcation is strong as decades of stra- tegic planning have not been effective to steer the Ganges and Hindon sub- basin from polluted-sluggish to clean-continuous ﬂow. 3.2. Comparison of reorientation outcomes The compass analyses for Tanzania, Germany and India reveal different outcomes for the degree to which a reorientation unfolded. In Tanzania, ag- ricultural water management was largely reformed to accommodate the shift in broader societal priorities from small-scale agriculture to agricul- tural expansion and commercialisation. A system of water permits and water rights was created to monitor water abstraction, yet there was inabil- ity to monitor and enforce the water rights, resulting in land and water grabbing by large commercial farming enterprises, leaving very limited water access for smaller farmers. In Germany, agricultural water manage- ment remained largely unchanged. Farm-level environmental conservation measures were hardly scaled up, because regulations and economic instru- ments were barely applied. As a result, agricultural water management has (so far) not been reformed to accommodate the shift in societal priority from agricultural intensiﬁcation to environmental conservation, as ob- served in the continued high nitrogen concentrations in groundwater and surface water. In India, agricultural water management in the Hindon sub-basin also remained largely unchanged despite decades of ambitious master plans to steer Ganges river ﬂow from polluted and sluggish ﬂow to (a more) clean and continuous ﬂow. Farmers lacked attractive options to re- duce agricultural water use and pesticide consumption. As a result agricul- tural water management has not been reformed to accommodate the shift in priorities form polluted and sluggish to clean and continuous ﬂow. C. Seijger Science of the Total Environment 886 (2023) 163945 5 Fig. 2 depicts these compass analyses, starting with the shift in societal priorities (A), the status quo (B), and the efforts made to reform agricultural water management to accommodate the shifted priorities (C).