 RESTRUCTURING OF ARS DISCIPLINES 3.1 In order to examine the restructuring of ARS disciplines, the committee critically looked into the existing grouping of ARS disciplines. The committee observed that at the time of constitution of the Agricultural Research Service, a total of 68 disciplines were approved under 5 broad groups of agriculture and allied sciences; Plant Sciences, Animal Sciences, Physical Sciences, Social Sciences and ‘Technology and Engineering’ for the purpose of recruitment to ARS. Currently, the recruitment is being made to 62 disciplines in 25 broad areas of specialization in the ARS (Annexure I). This exercise was carried out in the past by various committees and the recommendations of these 7 committees had been implemented from time to time depending upon the need of the organization. These disciplines require a review in view of the significant changes over the period to keep pace with the latest technological advancements and innovations in agricultural sciences. 3.2 After going through the existing list of approved disciplines in the ARS, the Committee observed that some of the disciplines particularly those in the Engineering stream such as Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Textile Chemistry, Textile Manufacture, Aquaculture Engineering, Electronics and Instrumentation etc. are not directly relevant to the mandate of the ICAR and have marginal presence in the ARS. The Committee felt that these disciplines should be taken out of the purview of the ARS Examination for making recruitment at the entry level. The requirements of appropriate personnel in these disciplines could be met either through lateral entry at Senior Scientist or Principal Scientist level or through outsourcing of services on need basis. Similarly, the committee decided to remove some of the subjects in the discipline of Home Science by recognizing only “Home Science” as a major subject at the entry level. A total of 12 disciplines, as listed below, have been suggested for exclusion from the list of disciplines for making recruitment to ARS: i. Electrical Engineering ii. Mechanical Engineering iii. Chemical Engineering iv. Textile Manufacture v. Textile Chemistry vi. Electronics and Instrumentations vii. Child Development viii. Textile and Clothing ix. Food and Nutrition x. Agricultural Physics xi. Aquaculture Engineering xii. Computer Application in Agriculture 8 3.3 The Committee observed that in view of emerging new areas in the agriculture sciences, the ICAR should now explore the possibility of introducing new disciplines such as Nano-technology, GIS, Remote Sensing, Genomics etc. for meeting future challenges. The ICAR should critically look into the requirement of manpower in these areas as per the strategic framework in the vision 2030 document. The committee is, therefore, not recommending the introduction of these disciplines at this stage.