a few good hybrids of Gladiolus, marigold, Bougainvillaea developed at the IARI are suited for commercial cultivation. Wheat HD 2329 LAL BAHADUR SHASTRI CENTRE, IARI, NEW DELHI, HOUSES THE CENTRES OF EXCELLENCE AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS Nearly 3 decades old, the Division of Agricultural Chemicals came into ex- istence on 14 November 1966 to develop: @ eco-friendly pesti- cides, allied agro- chemicals and for- mulations @ technologies for safe use of pesticides and lessening their load on the environment @ human resource. While several plant-based and synthetic protectants rec- ommended by the IARI are being manufactured commer- cially, those that have earned the Indian Patent Number 113193 for production of terpene alcohols from turpen- tine oil; 115716 for terpenyl esters from turpentine oil and its components; 119536 for methylene dioxyphenyl derivatives; 128129 for dillapiole and its components; 121303 for preparation of barium polysulphide and tobacco alkaloids; 133090 for the preparation of 2, 2, 2 trichloro-1, 1, di{chlorophenyl)-ethanol; 141551 for emul- sion concentrate; 153987 for anti-resistant insecticidal formulation and 4622315 for additives for improved photostability are revolutionary. PLANT BIOTECHNOLOGY A Centre of Excellence, the NRC on Plant Bio- technology, is assisting the plant breeders to overcome yield barriers in commodity crops in order to propel crop pro- ductivity. Whi The biotechnologists are currently involved in developing CMS systems and in their characterization at the molecular level. Significantly 3CMS systems have been developedin Brassica juncea— B, juncea + Trachystoma balli (2n = 52, TTAABB); B. juncea + Diplotaxis catholica (2n = 56, DcDc AABB) and B, juncea + Moricandia arvensis (2n = 64, MMAABB). A preliminary map of B. juncea is already available. Plant transformation through cry 1AB, a synthetic gene, obtained through ICAR-IRRI-ICRISAT consortium from Plantech Research Institute, Japan, is being extensively used for a higher degree of expression in brinjal, cabbage, cauliflower, tomato and tobacco. The doubled haploid population of rice developed through anther culture standardized at the Centre is being used for molecular tagging of cooking quality traits in rice to provide reliable selections for breeding high-yielding aromatic rices. NATIONAL FACILITY /CENTRE NUCLEAR RESEARCH LABORATORY The Nuclear Research Laboratory, established in 1969, is mandated to research and promote peaceful uses of nuclear energy for agricultural development. Using isotope radiation-induced mutations and deploying nuclear techniques, the laboratory has developed practices in collaboration with FAO-AEA for optimizing the use and increasing efficiency of fertilizers, water and pesticides and is assisting in developing integrated plant, soil, water and nutrient management practices.