 Head rice yield is a proportion of whole milled rice kernels (or at least 75% of the original kernel length). As mentioned above, parboiling is a common paddy processing procedure that in- volves soaking paddy in water and then steaming and drying it. The grain hydrates during soaking; the starch gelatinizes during steaming to cover up the cracks inherently present in the kernels; and drying restores its hardness [12]. The net result of this processing is a signiﬁcantly greater head rice yield than in the case of raw rice [10]. Retrogradation is the opposite of gelatinization and occurs during drying and storage. Gelatinization breaks down starch crystallites and traps excess water with glycosidic chains. Retrogradation re- forms starch crystallites and releases water. Due to the energy-changing condition of starch in the grain, parboiling profoundly affects the grain’s physicochemical, functional, and nutritional qualities [7,13]. In traditional parboiling, however, the soaking procedure uses up to 1 to 1.2 L water per kg of the parboiled rice, which produces signiﬁcant volumes of wastewater; moreover, the soaking, steaming, and drying stages are highly energy-intensive (0.8–13 4 MJ/kg) [14–17]. It is therefore necessary to ﬁnd ways and means of reducing the resources needed to produce parboiled rice. Several studies have been published which are concerned with reducing the amount of soaking wastewater and energy consumption by modifying the three steps [14–17]. Modeling of the soaking step with limited water has also been performed [18]. Reusing or recycling water to reduce net freshwater consumption has also been investigated [19]. As awareness of the health beneﬁts of food products increases, efforts must also be made to improve product quality, production efﬁciency, and overall sustainability. Sev- eral studies have aimed to achieve this [14,16,20–24]. However, the information is highly fragmented and not adequately critical. This review aims to synthesize our current under- standing of the parboiling process, the physicochemical and functional transformations that occur in parboiled rice, the emerging approaches to reduce excessive energy consump- tion, the health beneﬁts of parboiled rice, and other aspects of parboiling including future perspectives and challenges in this area. 2. Techniques for Parboiling Traditional parboiling techniques differ based on region and operating scale, but the core process consists of three steps, as mentioned earlier: hydration, thermal treatment, and drying. Paddy is hydrated by soaking to a moisture content of 24–30% wet basis. This is followed by thermal treatment (mainly steaming) to cause gelatinization. The gelatinized mass is then dehydrated to a 12–14% milling-appropriate moisture content. Large-scale commercial parboiling procedures are modiﬁed to make them more efﬁcient and cost-effective and to enhance product quality [25].