e, landless, marginal, small, medium and large ), were selected for the investigation. Reduced feeding was the most common ITK used for the treatement of repeat breeding by 63% of the respondents . Mustard oil was also used to overcome the repeat breeding by 50% farmers. Mehandi (Lawsonia alba) powder was used by one-fourth of the respondents, whereas giving bath in pond and feeding of barley (Hordium vulgare) flour mixed with water was Meena and Malik (2002) 277 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference followed by 20% of the respondents .Only a few farmers followed the methods of manually cleaning the cervix before the natural service, feeding desi sugar and missing service on the first heat and thereafter, gave natural service to the dairy animals (Haryana). 557 Bringing cattle into heat by use of mann leaves Feeding leaves of mann tree in adequate amount (15-20 kg approximately). Adopting this practice the females comes to heat after 12-14 hrs (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 558 Bringing cattle into heat by use of black pepper and Vanghuchi seeds A mixture of black pepper (10 grains) and Vanghuchi seeds (20-25) is given twice a day at interval of 6-8 hrs for 1-2 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 559 Identification of heat period Following symptoms are observed as proper heat period in cows and buffaloes : (i) Udder becomes harder and swell for three succesive days after commencement of heat ; (ii) Bellowing and the animal feel uneasy; (iii) White mucus and slimy material ooze out from the vagina; (iv) Frequent urination by animal; (v) Loss of appetite and; (vi) Animal starts humping on other animals (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 560 Inducing animal into heat by feeding grasshoppers Sometimes hiefers, even after attaining maturity, do not come into heat. This leads to delay in first calving. Some animals fail to come into heat after two-three calvings as a result of some internal problem or nutritional deficiency. A common practice in North Gujarat is to feed animals which fail to come into heat with two or three grasshoppers along with chapati (bread) or fodder. It is believed that animal comes into heat within 15 days after this treatment. Sharadaben from Ambasan village who had tried this out on her buffalo says a single treatment cycle is enough to get the desired result. The grasshopper is locally called titighodo. It is generally found during rainy season on cactus (Euphorbia spp) and akada (Calotropis spp). It has yellow and greenish stripes on the body (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel and Patel (1995) 278 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No.