 Mandate and activities • To conduct research on diverse aspects of commercial agriculture for enhancing farm income, employment, nutrition and export earnings, while ensuring sustainability of environment and agro-ecological assets • To develop cost-cutting strategies, secondary agriculture technologies and diversified value chain models for increased profitability, competitiveness and sustainability • To deliver front-line extension services for technology and market intelligence dissemination and organize trainings for stakeholders’ capacity and competency building • To collaborate, coordinate and liaison with producing, processing, value addition, marketing and exporting agencies for achieving its vision. Activities • Tobacco breeding for improved productivity and quality • Crop production management in commercial agriculture • Post-harvest produce management and value addition in high value commercial crops • Frontline extension and market intelligence for enhancing farmers profitability and export promotion • Implementation of Schedule Caste Sub-Plan and Tribal Sub-Plan for the benefit of targeted beneficiaries. 3. Salient Achievements • Developed and released 94 varieties/ hybrids of different tobacco types for cultivation in different zones. • Developed and popularized soil, crop and input management technologies. More than 90% of the tobacco area in the country is covered by these technologies. • Climate resilient technologies viz., farm pond technology, high density planting and foliar nutrition with KNO3 were developed and recommended. 11 Crop Science 11 • Developed energy conservation and fuel saving (40-50%) techniques for tobacco curing to reduce dependency on forest fuel wood • A process for purification of solanesol (95+%) from tobacco was developed and patented (No.21120). 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Production and supply of high-quality tobacco seed to meet more than 90% of seed requirement in the country. • Scientific backstopping of Tobacco Board, Ministry of Commerce, GoI in its policy framing, and extension and developmental activities relating to FCV tobacco production in the country. • Consultancy/advisory services on sustainable burley tobacco production to Godfrey Phillips India Ltd. Guntur, AP. • Soil, water and leaf quality evaluation for Tobacco Board. Industry and farmers Capacity building trainings to farmers and other stakeholders for efficient management of tobacco production and processing (from seed to seed). Varieties/ hybrids of different tobacco types Tobacco seed supply FCV: Siri FCV: Kanchan Burley: Banket A1 12 ICAR Institutes Profile 12 ICAR-Directorate of Groundnut Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address – ICAR-DGR, Ivnagar Road, Post Box No. 5, Junagadh-362001, Gujarat ii. Name of the Director – Dr CS Praharaj (A) iii. Email address & phone: director.dgr@icar.gov.in/ Phone No. – 0285-2673382 (O) 2.