 Crop Science 4 ICAR Institutes Profile 4 • IARI’s mango varieties Mallika and Amrapalli are grown on 232000 ha . Recently, institute has developed several varieties such as Pusa Surya, Pusa Arunima, Pusa Pratibha, Pusa Shressth, Pusa Lalima Pusa Peetamber with coloured peel and less sweetness targeting the export market. • Developed ransgene free genome edited mutants of mega rice cultivar MUT1010 with enhanced yield and tolerance to drought and salt stress • To enhance the consumption of millets and maize, two innovative products viz. HALLUR: ‘Soft Bajra Atta’ and MAKAI: ‘Soft Makka Atta’, having nutritional-richness of Pearl millet and Maize respectively with dough and chapatti making quality comparable to wheat were developed and commercialized. • ICAR-IARI’s Neem coated urea technology technology saves 5kg urea for each bag sold in the Country every year. DAC&FW has notified the MRP of 45 kg bag of urea instead of conventional 50kg bag of Urea. • The satellite remote sensing station at IARI daily monitors paddy residue burning over Punjab, Haryana & UP and daily bulletins are sent to ICAR & concerned ministries of the Govt. of India. • Pusa Decomposer, a microbial consortium developed for rapid decomposition of paddy straw has been found very effective and rapidly degrades paddy straw in situ into manure in 20-25 days following conventional tilling (CT) practices. • Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated the Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Centre on 11 October, 2017 to the Nation to foster understanding of climate change impacts on crops. The Centre has generated 57 million image data, identified novel donors for WUE, Nitrogen Use Efficiency and drought tolerance in rice and wheat. • Pusa STFR is a low cost, user-friendly, digital embedded system and programmable instrument, which analyses as many as fourteen important soil parameters and helps in balanced fertilization, improving use efficiency of applied nutrients and reducing the cost of cultivation • Pusa Farm Sun Fridge is an innovative, off-grid, battery-less, cold storage facility for perishables that uses a combination of evaporative cooling and solar refrigeration to store harvested farm products on farmers’ fields or in farm communities. • IARI commercialized 318 technologies to 605 industry partners • Since 1923, IARI has been playing a pioneering role in creating excellent human resource through post graduate teaching. IARI awards post-graduate degrees in 26 disciplines in Agricultural Sciences and related basic disciplines. At present total on roll students in campus is 1666 (1177 Ph.D., 454 M.Sc. and 35 M.Tech) including 612 female and 1054 Male Students and 21 international students. IARI was ranked 23rd in overall ranking of all Universities and Institutes in India by NIRF India Ranking 2017 • 15 Incubation programs were conducted by incubating 266 startups with a total fund of 7.97 Cr INR facilitated to 94 startups. 5 Crop Science 5 4.