 About 350 farm families are in the village and most of them are small and marginal farmers. The agriculture mainly depend on rains and irrigation under tanks and bore wells. The major crops grown are paddy, groundnut, tomato and mango and farmers depend mostly on dairy activity. The cluster villages received less than normal rainfall, i.e. 770 mm and experiences severe drought situation. The main objective of NICRA project is to motivate the farming community to utilize the available resources effectively and efficiently through conservation of soil and water besides imparting technical skills to improve productivity and livestock management. Natural resource management: Under this module, interventions related to rain water harvesting, soil and water conservation, green manuring, supplemental irrigation and recharge of bore wells were taken up in the cluster villages. Renovation of community irrigation tanks Clearing of unwanted vegetation and deepening of the tanks (11 nos.), strengthening of tank bunds and desilting activities were carried out under NRM activity with community participation. This helped in increasing the water storage capacity (8,721 cu.m) of the tanks and increased ground-water recharge in the bore wells (129 no.) in the vicinity and crops were cultivated in an area of 201 ha which benefited 242 farmers in the cluster villages. Feeder channels were also cleared of vegetation and deepened to improve flow of rain water to the tanks. Indian Farming 74 (03): 65-67; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 65-67; March 2024 Impact of climate resilient technologies in Chittoor district of Andhra Pradesh S Sreenivasulu'*, P S Sudhakar’, V Divya’, T Ramu Kumar', JV Prasad? and Shaik N Meera? "Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Chittoor, Karakambadi, Tirupathi 517 520 ?1CAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Indian agriculture, heavily reliant on monsoons, faces climate sensitivity, with fluctuations in rainfall and temperature significantly impacting crop productivity and threatening food security. Recognizing this challenge, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched the National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) programme in 2010-11. NICRA aims to make villages climate-proof by providing site-specific technological demonstrations to enhance farmers’ adaptive capacity in climatically vulnerable districts. Implemented by KVK, Chittoor (RASS), the NICRA project in Chittecherla and Deendarlapalli villages in Andhra Pradesh from 2015 to 2021 focused on enhancing agriculture and allied sectors’ resilience to climate vulnerabilities through improved production and risk management technologies. As part of this initiative, eleven community irrigation tanks in the villages were renovated to improve surface water storage and groundwater recharge, ensuring water availability for crops over a larger area.