 In all these districts, Coimbatore showed the negative growth in area, production and productivity. In sum, the development of mango crop in Tamil Nadu requires planning to increase area, production and productivity as this crop has got export market as well. Grapes Grapes is yet another important horticulture crop, grow only in Theni district in the State. In Tamil Nadu, average area under grapes was 2,545 ha with average production of 56,428 tonnes and average productivity of 22,069 kg/ha in the year 2006-07 to 2010-11. The area and production performance had shown positive growth and productivity of grapes had shown negative trend. Therefore, strategy planning must aim at increasing growth trend in productivity of grapes through research and development and capacity building of grape growers. The compound growth rate of grapes crop in Theni district of Tamil Nadu during 2000-01 to 2014- 15 is presented in Table 14. Chillies Chillies is an important spice crop in horticulture sector grown in five districts in the State. The average area and average production of chillies was 61,268 ha and 32,529 tonnes respectively. The average productivity of chilli was about 528 kg/ha. The rain fed chillies grown in Pudur / Vilathikulam areas of Thoothukudi district is very popular. The Sattur samba of Virudhunagar district and Paramakudi gundu Chilli of Ramanathapuram district are also popular in southern districts. Perusal of Table 15, exhibits the fact that Sivagangai district alone witnessed positive growth in area, production and productivity where as Thoothukudi district had negative growth in area, production and productivity. Hence Thoothukudi district requires special attention of chill crop. The growth trend in area was positive in Sivagangai and Ramanathapuram districts, negative in Ariyalur, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts. The negative trend in production was found in Ariyalur, Ramanathapuram, Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar districts. In the case of productivity, the positive growth was seen in Ariyalur, Sivagangai and Virudhunagar districts and negative growth in Ramanathapuram and Thoothukudi districts. The development of chilli crop in Tamil Nadu requires appropriate interventions to increase productivity. The compound growth rate of chilli crop in major districts of Tamil Nadu during 2000-01 to 2014- 15 is presented in Table 15. Tomato In Tamil Nadu, the average area under tomato crop was 22,794 ha with an average production of 2.97 lakh tonnes and average productivity was 13,054 kg/ha and mostly cultivated in five districts of the State. With reference to area, Krishnagiri district experienced positive growth, while Coimbatore, Dindigul, Salem and Theni districts have shown negative trend. The production witnessed uptrend in Dindigul and Krishnagiri districts and downtrend in Coimbatore, Salem and Theni districts.