 Although it is widely known that biochar contains aromatic functional groups, it would be beneficial to determine their presence and quantity in banana peel-based biochar. Other properties of the biochar, such as porosity, that affect its performance as fertilizer are also desirable to know. Furthermore, the authors did not test the effect of the BP-based biochar on soil health and plant growth and yield.. 4. Comparison of Different Methods for Preparing Banana Peel-Based Fertilizers Figure 3 depicts (in percentages) each method used in the studies reviewed. It has been noticed that composite peels are the preferred method, followed by homogenous dry and wet peels. This could be due to the economical simplicity of the synthesis method, which generally requires peels, heat (sun or hot air), and a pestle and mortar. In addi- tion, the composite fertilizer has the combined properties of the individual peels. Three types of composite peels were discovered in this work: dry or powder, ash, and liquid composite peels. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 17 of 24 Dried and wet 28% Composite 44% Ashes 5% Composite ashes 6% Biochar 17% Dried&Wet Composite Ashes Ashes composite Biochar Figure 3. Various methods for preparing banana peel-based fertilizers. As seen in Figure 4, 60% of studies applied the composite peels in dry form. Composite fertilizers in a liquid state follow at 30%; this is also a facile synthesis technique, and distilled water is generally used to extract the nutrients. What can be noted with the liquid composite is the generation of two products, i.e., the leachate liquid and a residual powder. The extract can be applied as a foliar spray at different plant leaf growth stages, as well as absorbed by the fertilizer. The residual materials can be applied to the plants before planting them in the soil and at different growth stages. 6 3 1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 Dry composite Wet composite Ash composite Frequency of technique Type of composite Figure 4. Types of identified composite fertilizers and their frequency. Biochar has some other benefits besides supplementing the soil with nutrients; a non-significant difference between the control and treated plants was observed, and root elongation was affected at higher dosages. A composite fertilizer of banana biochar im- pregnated or coated with other peels and/or N:P: K fertilizers could be investigated. A slow-release fertilizer could be developed, as well as its composite version, as demonstrated by Das and Ghosh [121]. The synthesis of biochar requires an external supply of energy for the pyrolysis of biomass, as well as specialized equipment. Due to this, other methods might be preferred over it. An under-researched area is the process of the gasification of BPs for fertilizer applications. Research efforts could be made to synthesize biochar from gasification and test this biochar as a fertilizer.