 Level of testosterone in plasma, testicular size, area of cloacal gland and foam production all were found positively correlated with the fertilizing ability of male Japanese quail. Therefore, when males were investigated for reproductive functions, the area of cloacal gland or foam production may be considered as a simple and effective tool for screening the infertile males from the breeding flocks of Japanese quail. Immunization of prolactin in White Leghorn birds with bromocyptine improved egg production by suppressing the prolactin level in birds and increasing sequence length and reducing pause days. Bromocryptine administration had an effect on prolactin levels, which in turn interfered synthesis of estradiol-17β and progesterone thus showing a definite correlation with egg production. Oral administration of bromocryptine through feeds increased egg production up to 40 weeks. Mithun Conservation and improvement of mithun is the second important mandate of the Institute. Research programmes on ex situ conservation particularly through the conservation of sperm was carried out during the year. Mithuns were trained for semen collection using cattle AV as well as through rectal palpation method. It is the first attempt in the country to collect mithun semen artificially. Average volume of semen, concentration and percentage of live spermatozoa in the semen samples were 3.12 ml, 710.83 mill/ml and 71.73% respectively. Sonograph of ovarian follicle of female camel LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 119 Among the four body tissues, highest moisture and fat content of 84.85% and 8.70% were recorded in kidney while the skin recorded a higher level of CP (27.89%). The water intake in female was higher than male (2.241 vs 0.218 litre/W 0.28 kg/ day). Mithun drank more water when managed in semi-intensive condition than under free-range condition. Total water intake in growing mithun calves was higher in pre-monsoon but the feed and water intake was comparatively higher in post- monsoon season. Total water intake in growing mithun calves was 19.75 litre/day and the faecal water loss was 4.08% of their body weight. Hb, PCB, RBC counts in mithus were influenced by the seasons—rainy season showing higher values than that in summer and winter. Mithun calves had highly significant higher values for PCV, ESR, WBC, RBC, GOT and alkaline phosphate. Significant difference in protein count was also observed. Fresh and stored blood samples indicated RBC osmotic stability up to 0.5% buffered saline concentration after which cells ruptured and complete haemolysis was recorded at 0.2% of buffer saline concentration. Mithun RBC maintained the osmotic resistance up to a saline concentration of 0.35% while cattle and swamp buffalo RBCs could maintain it up to 0.45% and 0.5% respectively. The osmotic fragility test of cattle and mithun calves also indicated that RBCs of mithun calves could maintain the resistance up to a saline concentration of 0.