 His subjects of experiments were not on the machines but the very machination or verities of life, which most of his contemporaries influenced by western definitions of scientists, consciously missed to note. Gandhiji’s view on mechanization in agriculture is quite explicit as published in Harijan (Gandhi 1934). He opined that mechanization is ideal only when the number of people available to do the work are too few for the work and it should not be used indiscriminately with the motive of 135 profit maximization, in situations where there are adequate number of people, as is the case in India (Jayalani 2018). He wished that machinery should not become their master but be only subservient to ensure wellbeing of the people. Gandhiji was reluctant to accept any machinery, which would enable only to enrich a few, depriving many poor of their livelihood as labour. His had believed that a machinery which improves the efficiency of masses without depriving their labour opportunities is good for the society (Gandhi 1935). Gandhiji founded the All India Village Industries Association (AIVA) in 1934 to develop rural technologies suitable for the artisans of villages and use of Science and Technology for the upliftment of the villages of India, in which great scientists and industrialists of India viz., Dr. CV Raman, Dr. JC Bose and Dr. SC Gupta served as advisers and Board Members. AIVA is testimony to his concept and understanding of the scope of industrialization within the Indian ethos and not influenced by the western idea of industrialization. Gandhiji encouraged ‘working with the hands’, which served both fulfilling human needs and the acquisition of knowledge at the same time. Manual and practical work was central to the educational program as outlined by Gandhiji. 3. ICAR’s Initiatives for Realizing Gandhian Principles Gandhiji considered the village as a basic unit of ideal social order. He believed that India would perish if the villages perish. He spelt out the fundamental concept of Sarvodaya in Hind Swaraj (1942), which was to ensure socio-economic benefits to all in every Indian village, achievable through the autonomy in self-development. The Gandhian concept of “Gram Swaraj” envisioned self-sufficient village republics. He considered the villages to stay independent of their neighbours for all their vital wants like food, clothing, sanitation, education etc., including other essential amenities required by a community, but yet stay interdependent for other needs, in which the village cannot attain self-sufficiency (Kumar 2002; Colucci-Gray and Camino 2016). In such cases, he added that, the village should produce more of what they can, so as to obtain in exchange, such items which cannot be produced locally (Gandhi 1959). Gandhiji visualized that the houses in villages must be built with locally available material, with adequate ventilation and a courtyard where vegetables could be grown for domestic consumption and maintain cattle.