 2020). The growing demand for quality livestock products in human diet has promoted commercialization efforts, which in turn, has necessitated technological interventions for controlling animal diseases and efficient service delivery in the sector (Ahuja et al. 2008). Given the size and distribution of India’s livestock population, improvement of the livestock health and production presents a significant opportunity to enhance rural income and accelerate the pace of poverty alleviation. Animal diseases like FMD, LSD, haemorrhagic septicaemia (HS), brucellosis in cattle/buffalo, PPR, goatpox, sheeppox, contagious caprine pleuropneumonia (CCPP) in goat/sheep, classical swine fever (CSF), and African swine fever (ASF) in pig, Avian influenza (AI), Newcastle disease (ND) and other infectious diseases in poultry birds (Yadav et al. 2016) continue to inflict economic losses on livestock and poultry producers with trade implications. Owing to the technological interventions of ICAR institutes, the livestock and poultry production and productivity have increased considerably. However, despite improved housing facilities, balanced nutrition, and disease control programmes including strict bio-security protocols, India is witnessing repeated occurrences of emerging, re-emerging, and transboundary diseases. The Indian poultry industry is facing major challenges due to many diseases, including complex chronic respiratory disease (CRD), Marek’s disease (MD), AI, ND, etc. CRD, caused by Mycoplasma gallisepticum and further complicated by avian pathogenic Escherichia coli (APEC) is a serious impediment to potential broiler production in the country. Post-mortem based diagnosis and treatment is often not accurate and effective since mixed infections are becoming dominant and posing difficulty for differential diagnosis. The porous international border across some of the North eastern states present opportunities for spread of many infectious diseases from neighboring China, Bangladesh, Bhutan, and Myanmar. This necessitates immediate attention through systematic surveillance, development of vaccines, and diagnostics for onsite use along with strict border control. 2. Initiatives to strengthen livestock and poultry health management in India The ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute (ICAR-IVRI) was initially established as the Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory in 1889 at Pune for conducting research for the protection of Indian livestock wealth from the dreaded diseases. The laboratory was shifted to Mukteswar in 1893, and later in 1913 it was expanded to Izatnagar, Bareilly to start large scale production of veterinary biologicals. In view of the main focus on production of veterinary biologics, the institute was renamed as Imperial Serum Institute in 1930, but as the institute expanded to conduct research on all contemporary disciplines of veterinary and animal sciences, it was renamed again as Imperial Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) in 1936.