 Like in agricultural drought, there is no direct relationship between precipitation amounts and the status of surface and subsurface water supplies in lakes, reservoirs, aquifers, and streams because these hydrological system components are used for multiple and competing purposes, such as irrigation, recreation, tourism, flood control, transportation, hydroelectric power production, domestic water supply, protection of endangered species, and environmental and ecosystem management and preservation. Agricultural drought occurs when both rainfall and soil moisture are inadequate during growing season to support a healthy crop. It is also the lack of availability of soil water to support crop and forage growth than by the departure of normal precipitation over some specified period of time. Socio-economic drought reflects the relationship between the supply and demand for some commodity or economic good (such as water, livestock forage, or hydroelectric power) that is dependent on precipitation. Supply varies annually as a function of precipitation or water availability. By affecting farm incomes, droughts also affect demand. Impacts of drought in rainfed regions As nearly half of net sown area is rainfed, agricultural production in India is highly dependent on quantum and distribution of rainfall. Drought reduces the country’s food grain production in certain years by as much as 15-20% of the yield of a normal year. In India, irrigated agriculture has received greater priority than rainfed agriculture. The difference between these two types of agriculture has become even more with the green revolution. Drought impacts farmers’ incomes as it can affect area under the crops and yield levels. Following crop failure, real incomes also frequently decrease as food prices rise. Small farmers and agricultural labour are most impacted. Droughts can occur after sowing, referred to as dry spells, results in farmers losing their investment in crop cultivation. Farmers also suffer as consumers as prices increase with a drought-induced production decline. Seasonal migration, increased Indian Farming 75 (01): 98-101; January 2025 Indian Farming 99 January 2025 participation in labour market are also results of drought incidence. Table 1 lists important drought years in the country. Studies from Telangana and Karnataka have revealed that drought significantly affected the farm incomes. The severe drought in the Vijayapura district of Karnataka affected the kharif sowing by 42%. In the Nalgonda district of Telangana, there was reduction in yield of major crops, viz. chilli (44.35%), maize (41.67%), red gram (34.70%), cotton (30.41%), and rice (28.81%). A farm family on an average incurs a loss of `54,717/year during drought. Droughts significantly affect the crop yields and reduces the share of agriculture income to total family income, and farmers take the risk of diversifying their incomes by taking up non-farm activities to sustain themselves.