 Locally made yellow traps made of locally available material applied with petroleum jelly or castor oil can be used to effectively manage aphids in rapeseed mustard, cucumber, and other vegetables. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 266 Traps can be made using ripe mash papaya in a container with a hole to capture both male and female fruit flies for Pumpkin, tomato, mango, watermelon etc. Keeping of bird perches in the field for allowing birds to sit and feed on insects and their eggs, larvae and pupae stages. Specific pheromones, traps can be used to monitor and mass trapping of target pests. Methyl eugenol can be used as fruit fly’s traps. Following Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITKs) may be used for various plant protection measure- Diseases S. No. Crop Disease/ Insect pests ITKs 1 Chilli Damping off and Die Back Apply fresh cow dung near the collar region of chilli plant Bunchy top Dusting of ash 2 Rice Brown spot Disease of rice 2-3 kg of fresh papaya leaves smash and sock in 3-4 litre water overnight. After filtration, the solution is mixed with 50-60 litres of water and 250ml soap solution. Insect Pests 1 Onion, Okra, Brinjal and Tomato Beetles, leaf defoliating insects, leaf miner, thrips and aphids Sprinkling of ash in and around the vegetable crops 2 Various crops Soil insect pest Soil application of Dried seeds and leaves of Neem or Melia azedarach (Local name: Seizarak) 3 Vegetable crops Aphids and Jassids Extract of green chilli and garlic as foliar spray Stored Grain Pests 1 Rice Rice weevil, rice moth etc Grain stored with neem leaves reduced the incest pest damage ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 267 2 Green gram and other pulses Various stored grain insect pests Treating the seeds thoroughly with mustard oil 3 Green Gram Various stored grain insect pests Seeds treated 1% neem leaf powder prior to storage Community Science Surplus tomato produces to be converted into tomato puree and ketchup. Washing of hand with soap or rub with hand sanitizer before preparation of food and lactating the babies. Supplementing and weaning foods should be prepared with locally available rice, dal, soybean after proper washing, drying and grading. Maximum nutrient loss minimization practices to be followed while preparing food to avoid nutrient loss and wastage. Sun drying (shade) to be encouraged for any surplus leafy vegetables and fruits. Drinking water should be boiled and boiled water be used for rinsing utensils before serving food. Animal Science Deworm your animals with Albendazole or Fenbendazole @ 10mg/ kg body weight. Vaccinate your pigs with swine fever vaccine. Keep your duckling worm specially during winter night. Oath folder seedling should be done during October and November for cattle feed. Protect your birds from coccidiosis by giving cordinal powder/ Furasol powder @ 1g/litre of drinking water. Apply paste of ferrous sulphate with gur at the teats of feeding sow to protect from piglet anaemia.