 Using a home-scale fermenter she learned the art of winemaking and then spent the next few years conducting trials. Achieving stability in the appearance and taste of the finished product in every batch is an indispensable factor for the success and consumer acceptance of any product. By 2020 she was able to standardize the method on a pilot scale. Setback along the way Feeling confident that she would be able to introduce the product to consumers, she decided to increase the production of grapes. With technical guidance from ICAR scientists, she learned the method of propagating Ms Sentiben, the woman farmer displaying the plentiful harvest the product would sell should she/ he decide to invest more. Otherwise, investing big would put any business in jeopardy and at risk of heavy losses. This report details how an ICAR technology was adopted and improvised by a youth from Nagaland which has changed the total outlook of horticultural entrepreneurship through high-quality winery. The Journey In February 2014, Ms Sentiben, a tribal women from Nagaland, procured a few rooted cuttings of grapes cv. Pusa Navrang from ICAR-IARI, New Delhi. A gardening enthusiast, she planted them on her homestead. In 2016, the vines raised by her gave the first crop. With technical guidance from ICAR scientists, she learned to take proper care of the vines including training and pruning. With good management practices, she was able to obtain high- quality bunches, which was sufficient for trying her hand at wine-making. Learning the science and art behind quality wine-making, she spent the next few years conducting trials and by 2020, she was able to standardize the total process on a pilot scale. She invested the next couple of years during the COVID-19-imposed national lockdown and only did the mass multiplication using hardwood stem cuttings from the mother plant. The idea was to form a small women’s group and go for an early expansion. She further obtained an FSSAI registration, designed her product label, and learned the complete trade. In December 2022, she launched her homemade and hand- crafted wine – LURO, meaning ‘time of harvest’. This is an account of her road to empowerment, a testament to the impact ICAR technologies and varieties make at an individual level in far-flung non-traditional regions for grape growing. How it all began? Ms Sentiben belongs to the Ao Naga tribe and resides in Dimapur, Nagaland. She has a graduate degree in Psychology. During her time in Delhi as a student, she came across the fruiting of ‘Pusa Navrang’ grape during a chance visit to ICAR-IARI, Pusa Campus, New Delhi. ‘Pusa Navrang’ is a hybrid variety (Madeliene Angevine × Rubired) of grape that was developed and released from ICAR-IARI, New Delhi in 1996-97. It is a teinturier January–February 2024 33 grapes through cuttings from the mother plants. In 2020, she developed a small farm in her native village and planted the rooted cuttings.