 Five decades ago, this plant’s special sweetness trait was compromised by natural crossbreeding with local varieties. Indian Horticulture 40 Name of GI Scientific name Area State Registered year Unique characteristics Representative photograph Allahabad Surkha guava (GI tag. 50) Psidium guenensis Allahabad region Uttar Pradesh 2007 Allahabad Surkha is a guava cultivated across the Allahabad and known for sweet and strongly flavor. The fruit is also known for its medical properties. Nashik grapes (GI tag. 165) Vitis vinifera Nashik Maharashtra 2010 Nashik grape is a variety of grape produced in Nashik district, which is known as the 'Grape capital of India'. Nashik contributes to more than half of the total grape export from the country. Bengaluru Blue grapes (GI tag. 211) Vitis vinifera Bengaluru urban, Chickabalapur and Kolar region Karnataka 2012 Bangalore Blue is characterized by its ‘foxy flavour’. More than 4.5 lakh tonnes blue grapes were grown annually mainly used for table purpose, making jam and jellies. Vazhakulam pineapple (GI tag. 130 and 141) Ananus comosus Vazhakulam (city of pineapple) Kerala 2009 Vazhakulam pineapple locally known as ‘Kannarachakka’. The fruit has a pleasant aroma, fruit shape is slightly conical, and fruit ‘eyes’ deeply placed. Tripura Queen pineapple (GI tag. 436) Ananus comosus Kamalapur region Tripura 2015 Queen pineapple has pleasant aroma and flavour. Its sweetness and unique aroma differentiates it from pineapples. Its export was a major step in connecting with the world trade. Mahabaleshwar strawberry (GI tag. 154) Frageria ananassa Mahabaleshwar Maharashtra 2010 Mahabaleshwar strawberry is a strawberry grown in the hilly slopes of Mahabaleshwar, which accounts for about 85% of the total strawberry produced in India. Solapur pomegranate (GI tag. 502 ) Punica granatum Solapur district (Pomegranate Hub) Maharashtra 2016 Solapur Pomegranate is famous for its refreshing sweet juice and valued for its medicinal as well as nutritional properties. Shahi litchi (GI tag. 552) Litchi chinensis Muzaffarpur region Bihar 2018 The famous Shahi litchi, which is famous for its sweet, juicy, unique flavour and aroma. Tezpur litchi (GI tag. 438) Litchi chinensis Lichu Pukhuri in Tezpur town Assam 2014 Tezpur Litchi is also grown completely under organic condition. Beed custard apple (GI tag. 494) Anona squamosa Beed district Maharashtra 2016 It has high total sugar (20.l2%) and reducing sugar content (17.97%). Purandar fig (GI tag. 500 ) Ficus carica Purandar region (Pune district) Maharashtra 2016 The distinct bell shaped Purandar fig with attractive violet colour differentiates itself from other varieties. November–December 2021 41 locality. GoI has recognized wide diversified status of fruit plants by giving a special status of GI tag to popularize and strengthen economic potential of the country in general and that locality in particular.