2 The revenue expenditure incurred out of Revolving Fund schemes as well as the income derived from such schemes by the ICAR institutes are accounted for under the respective financial heads 12. Sponsored Projects, Consultancy Projects and Grant-in-aid Projects -Receipts and Disbursements: In respect of ongoing sponsored projects and consultancy projects, the amounts received from sponsors/clients are credited to the head “Current Liabilities -Other Liabilities -Receipts against ongoing sponsored/consultancy projects.” As and when expenditure is incurred/advances are paid against such projects, entries are passed for credit to overhead 34 recoveries, intellectual fees etc. by debit to the concerned project account under the head “Assets -Current Assets -Loans and Advances -a) Current assets -sundry debtors - Payments’ against ongoing sponsored projects1 advances against sponsored projects”, through Bank account (payments made), and through Journal entries (crediting Overhead Recovery Account, Intellectual fee etc). Simultaneously, after determining the shares of the Council, welfare fund and the scientific and other staff, these heads are credited by debit to Overhead Recovery account and Intellectual fee account. The share of Intellectual fee pertaining to the Council is treated as income in the Income and Expenditure Account. Overhead Recoveries and Equipment Usage Recoveries are treated as abatement of revenue expenditure for the year. At the end of the year where the expenditure on Sponsored scheme booked under ‘Sundry Debtors’ is less than the Receipts (Opening Balance + Receipts during the year) for the scheme (under the head ‘Current liabilities’), the figure under Sundry Debtors will be set off against the figures in Liabilities side in respect of that scheme and the net figure will be shown under Current Liabilities in the Balance Sheet. In respect of schemes, where the expenditure is more than the Receipts (Opening Balance + Receipts during the year) for the scheme, the figure in the liabilities side will be set off against the figures on the Assets side and the net amount shown as recoverable from the Sponsors under Current Assets -Sundry Debtors in the Balance Sheet. 13. Expenditure on interest and finance charges incurred, which is not material when compared to totality, is grouped under miscellaneous expenses. 35 Schedule 23: Contingent Liabilities and notes to Accounts (2015–16) 1. ICAR adopted the Accrual System of Accounting and the Standard formats for presentation of the Annual Financial Statements from the financial year 2002-2003. 2. Details of Contingent Liabilities are as under : (Rupees in Lakhs) Details of Contingent Liabilities Current Year Previous Year 1 Contingent Liabilities (Court Cases, PIL etc,) 23.93 251.13 2 Letters of credit opened by the bank on behalf of the Council 7028.41 937.92 3 Estimated value of Contracts remaining to be executed 6986.45 4348.