 By incorporating the threshold values of soil moisture water level into a microcontroller by programming, an enhancement will be made to a software application. Microcontroller-based irrigation system [Fig. 2] as a real-time feedback control system that competently monitors and manages all irrigation system actions. The current idea is a model for updating agriculture industries on a modest scale while spending the least money. This technique saves labor and water while increasing production and profit. The Microcontroller-based PV pump system consists of (a) soil moisture sensors that estimate the volumetric water content, (b) Ardu- ino Uno is a popular microcontroller board based on the ATmega328 P microcontroller, (c) GSM SIM Module (900) connects to a network using GSM mobile phone technology (d) Mobile phone for indication of irri- gation system on or off (e) electric solar power source delivers power using solar radiation (f) power controller device or circuit that manages or regulates the electrical power supplied to a load, (g) Water pump mechanical device designed to move water (or other fluids) from one place to another. 2.2. Systems implementation It consists of (a) a user or farmer, (b) GSM Sim Module (900), (c) electric power sources, (d) Soil Moisture Sensors, (e) Arduino Uno, (f) a charge controller, (g) a battery (h) LCD, (i) relay (j) water pump as shown in Fig. 3. Using soil sensors, the system is configured to capture data on humidity. An Arduino microcontroller will receive a signal from the soil sensor, triggering an irrigation pump attached to a cell phone. However, if the soil moisture level exceeds the predetermined threshold value of 800, the pump will be turned off if the soil is wet, less than 400. Solar panels, electrical board with controls, water pump, moisture sen- sors, relay switch, plant area measurements, smartphone, GSM for Arduino, and LCD are all part of the creative irrigation system that was built according to the image, which depicts the project’s final stage with all its components. The system specifications have been considered. The control technique was implemented using the Arduino Uno microcon- troller, where it was programmed and afterward uploaded. Once the soil’s moisture content meets specific parameters, the irrigation system automatically activates or deactivates the water pump. Fig. 1. Flow chart of proposed work. A.K. Yadav et al. Results in Engineering 23 (2024) 102584 3 The system requires three distinct libraries to be provided via the command: one for the SIM900 module, one for the call functionality, and one for the LCD linked via I2C. Next was the basic functionality, such as making GSM calls. The instructions start with unsigned integers, which represent positive whole numbers. The instruction (unsigned int attempt = 3) indicates that the system will make three attempts to Fig. 2. Microcontroller-based PV pump system development. Fig. 3. Laboratory-based prototype development. A.K.