 In view of the changing scenario of agriculture, the mandated activities of KVKs are being changing from time to time to address the newer challenges in the areas of climate change, secondary and speciality agriculture, conservation agriculture, market led extension and agri-business. To make KVKs more vibrant and visible, ICAR has constituted a High Power Committee on Management of KVK under the Chairmanship of Dr.R.S.Paroda, Chairman, Haryana Kisan Ayog and former Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR for suggesting measures to improve relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation. The Committee had reviewed and relooked issues of KVK system with various stakeholders and submitted its recommendations on different terms of reference in this report. In this regard, I express my sincere thanks to Dr.R.S. Paroda, Chairman of the Committee, all Members of the Committee - Dr.R.B.Singh, Dr.A.G. Sawant, Dr.S.L. Mehta, Shri Rajiv Mehrishi, Shri Chaman Kumar, Dr.B.S. Hansra, Dr.A.K. Mehta and Member-Secretary Dr.S.Prabhu Kumar for their strenuous efforts in bringing out relevant and effective guidelines. I also appreciate the efforts made by Dr.K.D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agrl.Extn.) for his continuous support and cooperation in conducting the proceedings of the Committee. The efforts putforth by all Zonal Project Directors and Dr.B.T. Rayudu, Principal Scientist (Agrl. Extn.), ZPD VIII, Bengaluru deserves apprciation. I hope the recommendations of the Committee will have the relevance in the present context to make the KVK system more efficient and effective. (S. AYYAPPAN) Secretary & Director General 1 January 2014 New Delhi Foreword Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k vuqla/kku vkSj f'k{kk foHkkx ,oa Hkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku ifj"kn Ñf"k ea«kky;] Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh 110 001 GOVERNMENT OF INDIA DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH & EDUCATION AND INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MINISTRY OF AGRICULTURE, KRISHI BHAVAN, NEW DELHI 110 001 Mk- ,l- v¸;Iiu Dr. S. AYYAPPAN  The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has a well established frontline extension system in the form of Krishi Vigyan Kendras for effective dissemination of new technologies for the benefit of farmers in the country. This important movement has travelled almost 40 years of successful journey to build a strong network in almost all districts in the country. A number of organizations are involved in the implementation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras in truly a public-private partnership mode, which is rather unique in the world. It is encouraging that almost 100 Krishi Vigyan Kendras are being run by the Non Government Organizations. In the past, various committees were constituted by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to review and suggest measures to improve the functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and make them more effective.