 The juice of the leaves, mixed with black pepper is prescribed in rheumatism. Solasonine is present in fruit, the glyco-alkaloid content of fruits is collected from plants. Both glyco-alkaloid and fatty acid fractions of the extract cause liberation of histamine from chopped lungs tissue. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY The beneficial effect of the drug on bronchial asthma may be attributed to the depletion of stamin from the bronchial and lung tissues. Extract of whole plant shows anti-viral activity against Ranikhet disease virus and also sarcoma- 180 in the mice. Aristolochia bracteata: The plant occurs as a weed in black soils. It is reported to be poisonous to man and stock. It possesses insecticidal or insect-repellant properties due to the presence of aristolochic acid. The plant is reputed in indigenous medicine for its bitter, purgative and anthelmintic properties. The root is reported to be used as a substitute of A. indica. The taproot of A. bracteolata is gradually tapering and sinuous, particularly in the upper regions, and bears many branch-roots and numerous fibrous rootlets. Its external surface has a few transverse cracks in the bark, which is brown in colour. The root has no characteristic odour but has a nauseously bitter taste. It has short and splintery fracture. The root powder exhibits a violet fluorescence in ultra-violet light particularly when mounted in nitrocellulose. The roots contain aristolochic acid. The root decoction is employed to expel roundworms. It is reputed as an emmenagogue and is administered as a dry powder or infusion to increase uterine contractions but in laboratory trials has failed to exihibit this activity. It is also esteemed as an abortifacient but pharmacological trials do not corroborate this claim. The bruised leaves mixed with castor oil are applied externally in eczema. They are also applied to navels of children in colic and also given internally with castor oil. Geographical indications : Aristolochia indica: Aperennial climber with greenish white woody stems found growing throughout India in the plains and low hills. Leaves glabrous, very variable, usually obovate-oblong to sub-pandurate, entire with somewhat undulate margins, somewhat cordate, acuminate; flowers few, in axillary racemes, perianth up to 4 cm long with a glabrous pale-green inflated and lobed base, narrowed into a cylindric tube terminating in a horizontal funnel-shaped purple mouth and lip clothed with purple-tinged hair; capsules oblong or globose-oblong, 3-5 cm long; seeds flat, ovate, winged. The plant occurs all over India especially in the tropical and sub-tropical regions. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Solanum Clerodendrum inerme: A straggling shrub occurring abundantly near the coastal region of India and Sri Lanka. Leaves mucilaginous, bitter and fragrant. Clerodendrum phlomoides: A large shrub occurring in many parts of India.