 A signiﬁcant factor affecting the physicochemical changes of parboiled rice is its diffusion during the hydration process. Rice diffusion is affected by grain composition, structure, post-harvest processing, temperature, and humidity. Rice starch suffers substan- tial gelatinization and re-crystallization after parboiling. Starch polymorphisms impact the texture of cooked parboiled rice following re-crystallization. Changes in starch crystalline properties amount to one of the prominent factors affecting thardness and digestibility properties. Parboiled rice has a distinct ﬂavor because it is less sticky and ﬂufﬁer. Parboiled rice kernels are thicker and shorter. During parboiling, the white belly of milled rice is removed. Due to husk color diffusion into the endosperm during non-enzymatic Maillard browning, parboiled rice turns amber [26]. The primary disadvantages of parboiled rice are the texture and color, which vary according to consumer preference. The process’s intensity would lead to impaired coloring and digestibility to some extent. There should be a study conducted to balance the digestibility and the unwanted darker color of the parboiled rice. Nevertheless, the current technology of parboiled rice requires high investment. A particular focus on modern and simple parboiling processes is also required to obtain more feasible processing steps in parboiled rice processing. Hence, parboiled rice should be recognized as one of the low-GI dietary sources in the effort to supply new alternatives for staple foods and health-related purposes. Emerging green technologies emphasize essential goals, including installing cleaner technologies to reduce waste creation, efﬂuent pollution load, and toxic chemical use, and to promote solid waste conversion into valuable resources. Resource recovery rice mill wastewater remediation and solid waste management could produce monetary value. Switching from waste disposal as a source of valuable products, future initiatives should identify value-added product recovery and quantiﬁcation sources. The following steps should promote sustainable growth and greener economies: conventional treatments produce difﬁcult-to-manage sludge and need energy; and reusing waste yields value- added products and zero discharge. Processes that generate secondary energy and valuable goods need intensiﬁcation and industrial application to succeed. Nutrient recovery plants are rarely used in wastewater remediation. Nutrient recovery and wastewater treatment should be sustainable and cost-effective. Few studies have addressed this subject, and most do not document their methods. Thus, experimental methods in commercial rice mills require signiﬁcant attention. Treatment plants use integrated processes, and optimization should enhance the combination of treatment methods. Proper disposal is needed, even for small amounts of secondary by-products.