 Cercospora leaf spot Symptoms: Cercospora appears initially as tiny yellow spot on leaf surface leading to increased dark grey spots which spreads on entire leaf resulting in dropping of leaf. Management: Spray chlorothalonil (2.5 g/L) or mancozeb (2.5 g/L) or carbendazim (1 g/L). Phytophthora Symptoms: This disease appears during fruiting and flowering stage resulting in tiny oil like spot on leaf surface resulting in rottening and blackening of plants. Later plant weakens and dies in 2-3 days. Heavy and continuous rainfalls coupled with high humidity favour disease appearance and its quick spread. Phytophthora disease is relatively more severe in net houses which may lead to 40-80% crop damage. Management: Spray copper ydroxyl chloride (3 g/L) or Ridomil (2 g/L) or azoxystrobin (0.5 ml/L). Severely infected plant parts should be destroyed. It is better to avoid capsicum cultivation in severely affected net-houses. Viral diseases Symptoms: Viral diseases are transmitted through aphids and thrips leading to upward and downward curling of leaves with yellow spot in the middle of leaf and sometimes on fruit also. Heavy infestation leads to dropping of leaves, stunted plant growth and reduces quality and quantity of fruits. Virus affected fruits are unmarketable. Management: Grow nursery beds under nylon cover (50 mesh), proper management of aphids, mites and thrips which act as disease transmitting vectors and disposal of diseased/infected plants, control infestations of viral diseases. Challenges in capsicum cultivation under polyhouse. High capital investment: Capsicum cultivation under polyhouse requires high initial investment for creating structures, therefore, there is a need for developing low cost poly house designs suitable for various agro climatic zones. There is also a growing need for credit for meeting working capital and post-harvest facilities as well as banks need to channelize credit facilities for promotion of polyhouse cultivation. High cost of planting material: The cost of imported seeds and planting materials of capsicum for polyhouse conditions is very high. Though, government provides 50% subsidy for initial year for purchasing planting materials and cultivation of capsicum under polyhouse which is not sufficient for sustainability. Thus, the subsidy scheme for planting materials may be continued every year and also there is a need for developing domestic varieties for higher productivity and quality. Lack of proper marketing facilities: There is a need for formation of farmer’s producer’s organization and linking farmers with super markets for assured and sustainable income. Incidence of pest and diseases: There is a need to educate the farmers about the management of pests and diseases for polyhouse cultivation through the department of horticulture and other line departments for providing technical guidance to the farmers.