 (v) PROVISION OF TRANSPORT/COMMUNICATION FACILITIES : Keeping in view the poor economic and social development and trie difficulty of trans- port/communication in these areas, the concerned State Governments may be approached for extending to ICAR scientists the transport/communication facilities provided to their own employees. It has also been decided that the duration of posting in such areas will be for a period of not more than 5 years which could be covered in not more than 2 separate spells of duty. Willing officers may be allowed to continue for longer period in such places. TRANSFERS All-India Service Liability A member of the A.R.S. is liable to transfer to any place in India. He is also required to serve a minimum period of time in a backward or comparatively less developed area of the country. The transfers will be made in the following circumstances : (i) to correct imbalance in the cadre strength of scientists in various disciplines at different institutes and also within an Institute in- cluding regional stations, (ii) to fill positions in high priority projects, direct recruitment to which through the Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board may result in delay, in the implementation of programmes, (iii) to utilize the experience of scientists in appropriate fields, (iv) to post scientists in backward or comparatively less developed areas in accordance with the provisions of Rule 20 (2) of the A.R.S. Rules and (v) for administrative reasons. TEUNRE OF POSTING The tenure of posting will normally be 5 years in the first group, 4 years in the second group and 3 years in the third, group. The scientist on completion of his tenure of 5 years in the first group will be transferred to the third group and on completion of three years tenure in that group to 34 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE the second group and then to the first group and so on. If any scientist working in second or third group i.e. category C, D and E stations does not want to be disturbed, he may be allowed to continue in those stations. A scientist is required to spend at least a minimum of three years in group three stations i.e. category D or E Station during his entire career. Scientists over 55 years in age may not be disturbed from their exis- ting places of work without their consent as far as possible. TIME OF TRANSFER As far as possible transfers should normally be made by the end of March when the academic session of the schools and colleges will come to a close so as not to disturb the education of the children. MODE OF TRANSFER Transfer will be made in the order of length of stay at a particular place, i-e. the scientists who have served longest in.a station will be trans- ferred first. The scientist^ who have served for long period in stations in- cluded in the second and the third groups will be considered first for trans- fer.