25 lakh packets of 'Bt-NHH 44' DURING 2010 using the seed lots that were rigorously tested and certified by CICR through ELISA testing of individual seed lots. There·was not even a single complaint during the 2010 season and farmers were very happy with the performance. 38. Monsanto (MMB India) have stated that their tests have revealed the complete presence of Mon531 in all positive seeds and are constantly reminding MAHABEEJ and CICR for possible royalties. Certified that the above report contains data from the Bt Referral laboratory, CICR, Nagpur carried out under my direct supervision. The chronological list of events reported in the report above have been presented without any bias to individual or institution and represent only facts best known to me. Date: 18th December 2010 CwS K. R. Kranthi Director, CICR IO~ Zimbra ANNEXURE-IX Zimbra Re: regarding BnBt From: RANJINI <warrier@nic.in> Sender: warrier@nic.in Subject: Re: regarding BnBt To : sonti@ccmb.res.in Cc : vc@mail.jnu.ac.in, vc@pau.edu, secy iear <secy.icar@nic.in>, imran <imran@ccmb.res.in> sonti@ccmb.res.in Fri, May 04, 2012 04:17 PM Dear Dr Ramesh Sonti, . PI ignore the earlier mail. Revised information with minor correction on the date of RCGM meeting may be seen below: Please find below factual information on the two queries raised by the EnqUiry Committee in respect of BnBt Cotton. 1. Could you please let us know the name of the person who made the presentation regarding BnBt to the GEAC? No presentation was made to the GEAC on the Biosafety Studies conducted on BnBt. However, the 'proposal of CICR seeking approval of GEAC for large scale field trials with BnBt was considered in the 83rd and 84th meetings of the GEAC held on 2.4.2008 and 2.5.2008 respectively. In the 83rd meeting of the GEAC, Dr Kranthi, Senior Scientist, CICR, Nagpur had made a presentation on "Results on monitoring the susceptibility of boll worms to Bt gene and development of insect resistance" (ref Agenda Item 4.2) 2. Were Dr. Ananda Kumar and Dr. Khadi, who were members of GEAC, sitting in on this presentation regarding BnBT? Both Dr. Ananda Kumar, Project Director, NRCPB and Dr. B.M. Khadi, Director, OCR, Nagpur (former) were present in the 83rd GEAC meeting held on 2.4.2008 while the BnBt proposal was discussed. There was no presentation on the subject matter. Dr. B.M. Khadi was present in the meeting held on 2.5.2008. It may also be noted that Dr B.M. Khadi had made a presentation to the RCGM in the 53rd meeting held 22.5.2007 on the Biosafety Studies conducted with Bt Transgenic Cotton Hybrid NHH44 Bt. Based on the RCGM http://webmail.ccmb.res.inlzimbrafh/prinunessage?id=41292 \10 i, II i I I i II! I ! • Zimbra recommendation, the proposal was considered by the GEAC. With regards, (Dr. R. Warrier) Director & M~, GEAC .1- • • 1I , - - - - - - - - - - Ltmbra On 04/24/12, sonti@ccmb.res.in wrote: Dear Dr.