 The NSSO date also reveals that only 40 per cent farmers had access to any source of information on modern technology. Of those who had access to such information, the highest proportion obtained information from other progressive farmers. iv. Village knowledge centre: There should be knowledge centre at Village level so that farmers get access to modern technologies in the village itself. v. Strengthening of convergence: Convergence of KVK, ATMA, Line department, bank, cooperatives etc need to be strengthened for resources as well as expertise. Strategy 6: Waste land development and waste water i. Contour making for arable purpose in waste land in hilly areas of Kashmir division. ii. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. iii. Promotion of plantation of horticultural crops, medicinal and aromatic plants and floricultural crops iv. Popularization of trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off. v. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season. Strategy 7: Reduced cultivation cost i. Promotion of well decomposed FYM, Vermicompost and Bio-fertilizers to minimize the use of chemical fertilizers. ii. Promotion of line sowing and judicious use of fertilizer application in crops. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 225 iii. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. iv. Promotion of organic farming; mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. Strategy 8: Off-farm income i. Promotion of occupation like silkworm, bee keeping, poultry, fish farming and mushroom will harness the potential of new or improved technology in farming occupation. ii. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants. iii. Promotion of skill development in women and youth Strategy 9: Online Management and Evaluation i. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. Mobile applications like Nutrient Diagnoser and Manager has been developed by CITH, Srinagar and also one software application Predictor and Planner for Almond cultivation which has been licensed. Use of these type of softwares/mobile applications can play an important role in bridging the gap between laboratory and land and thus increase the efficacy of farming. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. iii. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. iv. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Agro-climatic Region: Ladakh Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Agriculture & Horticulture: i. Organic farming in Ladakh: Ladakh region is highly suitable for sustainable organic farming of agriculture and horticultural crops. ii.