 Tendu leaves are also used for making biodegradable plates, which would help in uplifting the socio-economic status of tribal and rural people as it is a great alternate option for the use of biodegradable dining plates in future. Leaves contain 7.12% crude protein and 25.28% crude fibre, therefore leaves are very good for fodder purposes and can generate good income through this. 2. Medicinal importance The bark of tendu tree has an astringent taste due to the presence of tannin and its decoction is used to cure dyspepsia and diarrhoea. The dilute extraction of bark is also used as an astringent lotion for eyes. The alcoholic extracts of tendu bark have antipyretic, anti-inflammatory and analgesic properties. The aqueous extracts of the stem bark are used to cure jaundice by tribal communities. Fruits are used to cure stomach disorders. 3. Value-added products The fruits get wasted due to lack of proper post- harvest management and the shelf life of tendu fruit is very low (less than 1 week). The wine from tendu fruit in India is well-accepted among the consumers. 4. Others The pericarp of fruit is also a good source of crude fibre, potassium, magnesium, phosphorus and calcium; and can be used as a low-cost source for extraction of phytochemicals or can be used for feeding and preparation of manures. The fruit extracts exhibited great DPPH scavenging, hydrogen peroxide scavenging, hydroxyl radical scavenging and reducing power assay activity. The tendu leaf refuse waste from the beedi industry has great removal efficiency of phenol and heavy metals such as chromium (97%), copper (96%), cadmium (81%) and magnesium (75%) from aqueous solution. Future thrust Diospyrus melanoxylon Roxb. is a wild and underutilized edible fruit and is widely spread in wild form. It has great nutritional value as a fruit and is imperative to bring awareness among the people. However, the shelf life of this fruit is very short and there is a need to focus on developing post-harvest management practices for increasing its shelf life. There is also a lack of standard propagation method which needs attention to standardization. Considering the importance of the fruit and its benefits, there is a need to conserve the germplasm and undertake crop improvement programs for effective utilization of the crop. For further information, please contact: 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessarghatta, Bengaluru 560 089 2ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow 226 101 *Corresponding author: ajswt25798@gmail.com Mature fruits of tendu Immature fruits and leaves of tendu Tomato Hybrid Kashi Adbhut (VRNTH-18283) for high temperature: Suitable for high day temperature of 38±2oC and night temperature of 32±2o C. Semi-indeterminate plants, fruit weight 60-30 g with yield potential of 520 q/ha, having TSS 3.70 Brix and acidity 0.25%. Crop duration February to June under north Indian plains. Availability of fruits up to 2nd week of June.