 Das and his team for this endeavour that will go a long way not only in strengthening the agricultural science and technology but also empowering fanning community and nation in protecting intellectual property rights' pertaining to the practices-based on indigenous knowledge. I am sure that this document would be useful to identify the origin of the plan repcies used and to describe and retrieve in the context of the ITKs. The geographical indication would also be useful for all those who are directly or indirectly engaged in espousing cause of sustainable development in agriculture including issues related to food and nutritional security, protection of environment and intellectual property rights for future generation. (MANGALA RAI) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi New Delhi 15 December 2004 Contents Introduction EOGRAPHICAL indications, the context of plant species used in indigenous knowledge-based technologies, indicate the origin of the species in a territory or region or locality, where the characteristics of the plants are attributed to the origin. When associated with a product, geographical indications attribute a known quality of the product that in associated with a specific geographical location. One of the ways to protect the appropriate use of geographical indications, it is to be known commonly and documented and placed in the public domain. A large number of plant species are used in Indian agriculture for crop production, plant protection and post-harvest operations. In addition, production system in animal husbandry, fishery and household food and nutrition involves the use of various plant species. This has been made evident in the publications made under the National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK). Accordingly it was thought appropriate to document the geographical indications of the plant species which are in use in indigenous knowledge-based practices that may help in development of appropriate technologies. Further, the knowledge of the plant species and its functioning capabilities in promoting productivity of agricultural and land-based activities will go a long way in rationalization of the practices, adoption and diffusion of the technologies. The outcome of the project also indicated the possibility of registration/patenting of some of the practices that may protect the intellectual property rights of the practices. A geographical indication is one of the laws in this direction. The document provides information on geographical indications of 228 plant species covering the names in local and Indian languages, besides, English; habit and habitats; active ingredients and therapeutical qualities of the plant species.