 Farmyard manure Farmyard manure (FYM) refers to the decomposed mixture of dung and urine of farm animals along with litter and left-over material from roughages or fodder fed to the cattle. Entire amount of nutrients present in farmyard manure is not available immediately. About 30% nitrogen, 60–70% phosphorus and 70% potassium are available to the first crop. Gypsum and rock phosphate are spread in the cattle shed which absorbs urine and prevents volatilization loss of urea present in the urine and also adds calcium and sulphur. Fresh cow urine Cow urine, which is wasted, contains 1.0% nitrogen and 1.35% potassium. Fresh cow urine can be used in any crop in all the seasons. Dilute 1 litre of cow urine with 10 (1:10) litre of water and use it as foliar spray. For one acre of crop, 200 litre of such dilute suspension will be sufficient. Compost A mass of decomposed organic matter made from waste is called compost. Compost made from farm waste like sugarcane trash, paddy Application of farmyard manure in the field Indian Farming 29 May 2023 straw, weeds and other plants wastes is called farm compost. Nutrient value of farm compost can be increased by application of superphosphate or rock phosphate @10–15 kg/tonne of raw material at initial stage of filling the compost pit. Phospho-compost/rock phosphate- enriched compost It is prepared by mixing rock phosphate @5–10% w/w with the composting mass (FYM, goat manure, poultry manure or pig manure). The mixture is decomposed for a minimum period of 70–90 days. Phospho-compost contains 1.5–2.0% N, 2.0–3.0% P with C:N ratio 16–18. Phosphate solubilizing microorganisms, namely Pseudomonas striata and Bacillus polymixa, N-fixer (Azotobacter chroococcum), etc. may also be used in this composting process to accelerate the decomposition process. Sheep and goat manure The droppings of sheep and goats contain higher nutrients than farmyard manure and compost. Goat manure is considered cool, and it has a more balanced pH and less salt. Pelletized droppings allow for more air in the composting manure pile, and the dry nature allows it to compost faster. Sheep manure is referred to as cold manure because of its low nitrogen content (but high P and K). It is a natural slow-release fertilizer. Poultry manure The excreta of birds ferment very quickly. If left exposed, 50% of its nitrogen is lost within 30 days. Poultry manure contains higher N and P2O5 compared to other bulky organic manures. The predominant form is uric acid, which readily transforms to ammonia (NH3), a gaseous form of nitrogen that can evaporate if not mixed into the soil. Thus, soil mixing can reduce nitrogen losses and increase its amount available to plants. Pig manure The best way for using pig manure is to compost it (60–90 days). Pig manure should be added to compost pile and allowed to rot long enough and hot enough. This will break down and kill all the organisms (E. coli, Salmonella, parasitic worms, etc.) it might carry.