1 Mandate of KVK Keeping in view the importance of translational research for effective technology dissemination and considering the changing agricultural scenario, the suggested Vision, Mission and Mandate of KVK are now proposed as: Vision: Science and technology-led growth leading to enhanced productivity, profitability and sustainability of agriculture. Mission: Farmer-centric growth in agriculture and allied sectors through application of appropriate technologies in specific agro-ecosystem perspective. Mandate: Technology Assessment and Demonstration for its wider Application and to enhance Capacity Development (TADA-CD). To implement the mandate effectively through creation of awareness about improved agricultural technologies, the following activities be defined for each KVK. (a) On-Farm Testing (OFT) to assess the location specificity of agricultural technologies under various farming systems. (b) Out scaling of farm innovations through Frontline Demonstration (FLD) to showcase the specific benefits/worth of technologies on farmers’ fields. (c) Capacity development of farmers and extension personnel to update their knowledge and skills in modern agricultural technologies and enterprises. (d) Work as Knowledge and Resource Centre for improving overall agricultural economy in the operational area. (e) Conduct frontline extension programmes and provide farm advisories using Information Communication Technology (ICT) and other media on varied subjects of interest to farmers. (f) Data documentation, characterization and strategic planning of farming practices. KVK, while acting as a single window Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC), should produce quality technology related inputs/products (seeds, planting materials, bio- agents, livestock, fingerlings etc,) and make them available to farmers. Besides, identify and document selected farmer-led innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programmes within the mandate of KVK. 12 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 4.1.2 Domain of activities (a) Data generation ●Creation of database on the district profile based on the secondary data. The database should have details about blocks/villages, demography including farmers (small, marginal and large), livestock population, weather data, distribution of land, area under major crops, production and productivity trends of crops, livestock, fisheries and allied sectors, home-scale enterprises and socio economic profile. Besides, details of inputs, marketing, processing, extension service providers etc., may also be maintained in the database. ●KVK should work in a cluster approach wherein 4-5 villages covering farm families dominated by small and marginal farmers selected preferably from different agro-ecosystems and continue work in the selected cluster(s) for 3 years with phased out strategy to implement similar activities across the district by moving to new cluster of villages for another 3 year cycle.