 Waste management: Effective reuse and recycling of generated waste is enabled by using the waste of one enterprise as input of another and significantly reduces environmental burden. Increase in productivity and profit: Coupling of enterprises in IFS increases economic yield per unit area per unit time and the adequate reuse and recycling ensures cost reduction at every step. Employment: The commercialisation of IFS farms increases labour requirements thereby creating more jobs and will aid in development of agro- industries. R o u n d - t h e - y e a r - r e t u r n s : Interaction of cropping with enterprises that are active all year- round including poultry, milk and sericulture will generate a year- round income for the farmer and they will not have to rely on just the harvest season for a profit. This results in a higher net return for the employed land and labour resources. Diversification of income source: In an agriculture dependent country like India, where most often the farming families depend only on their farmland as a source of income, this diversification would help generate alternate sources of income preventing severe outcomes if any enterprise shall fail to deliver desired output. Ecosystem sustainability: The virtues of IFS also lay in its sustainability and environment friendly practices- like use of organic manure to increase soil organic matter that translate to less fertilizer use, less insecticide use and thus a sharp decline in pollution resulting from agricultural practices. They can thus also be applied to approaches directed towards biological soil amendments and nutrient cycling. Integrated farming system has had a real life impact in many studies that have been conducted in India and across the globe. In one such study, the integrated farming system consisting of pisciculture, field and horticultural crop (agroforestry), poultry, mushroom, apiculture and biogas enterprises generated a net income of `58,360 and an employment of 573-man days on a small piece of land (1.25 ha), ensuring a high standard of living for small and marginal farmers. Another study conducted with a wide range of crop inputs over 12 consecutive years (2006– 2017), showed that the integrated systems with intercropping generate significant synergies increasing Advantages of integrated farming system Indian Farming 43 September 2023 annual crop yields by 15.6–49.9% and farm net returns by 39.2% and decreasing the environmental footprint by 17.3% as compared with traditional monoculture cropping. Way forward Adoption of integrated practices can complicate the formalised procedures of conventional crop husbandry, which are familiar to farmers. For example, a more diverse rotation demands knowledge of a wider range of diseases, insects and input regimes as well as markets. Certain techniques, such as delayed drilling or threshold spraying can expose the enterprise to greater risk and preventing them incurs cost.