 The convergence observed at a low sampling size may be attributed to the low number of training data points used (n = 45). Figure 3. NRMSE (%) for several trait estimations using different AL methods. (a) LAI and (b) CCC. # samples denote the number of samples. Retrieval of LAI and CCC The final GPR models were applied to pre-processed UAV hyperspectral imagery to obtain estimates and the accompanying uncertainties. The LAI and CCC retrieval maps and their associated coefficient of variation (CV) are shown in Figure 5. The in situ measurements for LAI and CCC range from 3.46 to 7.27 m2 m−2 and 1.03 to 3.76 g m−2, respectively. On inspecting the retrieval maps, it is understood that they are strictly following the ranges of in situ measurements. The experimental plots with low values of LAI and CCC are clearly visible with red-coloured pixels, which indicate a strong pixel-wise variation of the retrieved values. For both the LAI and CCC maps produced, the maximum and minimum values appear on the same plots, which suggests that the retrieved maps are realistic and represent the best spatial variability. Even though the GPR models were trained with non-vegetation spectra added to the training with trait values set to zero, they were finally applied to a soil-masked pre- processed UAV image. Notably, no zero or close-to-zero values were obtained in the final estimated maps, which indicates the absence of non-vegetated regions, proving the advantage of including them during model training. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report EBD showed the highest performance for CCC. The convergence observed at a low sampling size may be attributed to the low number of training data points used (n = 45). —— ABD (b) —cpp EBD | —PAL —— RSAL 10 19 : 50 100 150 200 250 40 60 80 100 120 140 # Samples # Samples Figure 3. NRMSE (%) for several trait estimations using different AL methods. (a) LAl and (b) CCC. # samples denote the number of samples. Retrieval of LAl and CCC The final GPR models were applied to pre-processed UAV hyperspectral imagery to obtain estimates and the accompanying uncertainties. The LAl and CCC retrieval maps and their associated coefficient of variation (CV) are shown in Figure 5. The in situ measurements for LAI and CCC range from 3.46 to 7.27 m2 m-2 and 1.03 to 3.76 g m-2, respectively. On inspecting the retrieval maps, it is understood that they are strictly following the ranges of in situ measurements. The experimental plots with low values of LAI and CCC are clearly visible with red-coloured pixels, which indicate a strong pixel-wise variation of the retrieved values. For both the LAI and CCC maps produced, the maximum and minimum values appear on the same plots, which suggests that the retrieved maps are realistic and represent the best spatial variability.