 Three long bamboo poles (20-25 feet each) are erected to from the shape of a big triangle in this system. A platform is made by connecting these three poles with the help of small bamboo pieces, also used as ladder to carry the grains to the top. A person stands in the connection points of three poles to drop the paddy grains in the ground .The person in the top is continuously supplied with uncleaned rice grains in a bamboo basket through relay process. The wind direction, velocity and the height are effectively utilized in this system. This system is cost effective and huge quantity of uncleaned grains are cleaned within short time involving minimum number of labours. Keywords: bamboo poles, triangle, bamboo basket, relay process, wind direction, wind velocity Dr N. Prakash, Dr P.P.Pal, Dr P. Sundrambal, Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari. Agricultural Extension Division, ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Barapani (Meghalaya)- 793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J. Hill Farmg 12 (1&2): 134-135(1999) Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 9 Grain/Seed Storage Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2445 Storing of rice seeds by drying and plastering the container with cowdung paste The rice seeds, harvested during September-October, are dried and stored in gunny bags. These stored seeds absorb moisture which is prevalent during the wet period of north-east monsoon. Therefore, the seeds are again dried in sunshine during January- February to reduce moisture content so as to prevent insect damage. Afterwards the seeds are stored in a tight container and it is plastered with cowdung paste and dried. This practice is called kottai. With this practice the seeds can be stored till the next sowing season. The cowdung plastering prevent the seeds from insect attack but do not hinder the biological activity of the seeds. Keywords: seed storage, rice, kottai, cowdung plaster, sun drying Shri R. Subramaniam 124 Rangamapet, Papireddipetti, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 905 2441 Technique to store rice seeds The farmers spread the seeds on the threshing floor during Tamil month thai (January) and the seeds are kept there up to 7 days. During night the seeds absorb moisture from dew and the moisture is dried up in the daytime. This practice improves the seed quality and grain yield. Farmers of Rajagopalapuram taluk in Tamil Nadu are following this practice since 9 years. Keywords: rice seed, storage, thai, moisture absorption, drying Shri R. Kamaraj Plot no 1084, Housing Unit Rajagopalapuram, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 003 2440 Use of thombai to store rice grains Seeds of rice are kept in wooden thombai. The bottom of thombai is filled with paddy or varagu straw.