 Walk-in tunnel off season vegetable production Unit, KVK Jaintia Hills, Meghalaya Poultry unit established under ARYA program, KVK Bundi, Rajasthan TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 172 Out-scaling of Natural Farming through KVKs: Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India has sanctioned a project titled “Out-scaling of Natural Farming through Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs)” of ₹9,555 lakh for 4 years (2022–26). The project is being implemented by 425 KVKs across 33 States and Union Territories from September 2022. The activities being carried out under the project are awareness, training and demonstrations on natural farming. Being the novel area, National Workshop on Natural Farming was conducted at Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Gwalior on 03 December, 2022 for sensitizing the Subject Matter Specialists (SMSs) of KVKs and Nodal Scientists of Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) who are involved in implementing the project. Besides experts from different Agricultural Universities and ICAR institutes, farmers practicing natural farming also shared their experiences during the workshop. About 790 persons including SMSs of KVKs, nodal scientists of ATARIs, students, and farmers of Chambal and Gwalior divisions of Madhya Pradesh attended the workshop. Besides, SMSs of KVKs and nodal scientists of ATARIs who are involved in implementing the project have been imparted training at State Natural Farming Training Centre, Gurukul, Kurukshetra, Haryana. In all, 436 persons attended the training programme. The KVKs under this project organized different activities namely, exhibitions; gosthies; camps; group meetings; poster presentation; debates; method demonstration on preparation of different inputs of Natural Farming; exposure visits of farmers to the successful Natural Farming practicing farmers and Natural Farming Blocks at KVK farms; placed hoardings and posters on Natural farming at the village level; and used audio-visual aids, mass media and social media for creating awareness among farmers. The KVKs organized 6,777 such awareness programmes involving 6.79 lakh farmers. Demonstration of direct seeding of rice-Alleppey, Kerala Demonstration of happy seeder in Faridkot Workshop on Natural Farming at RVSKVV, Gwalior, Madhya Pardesh Training and drmonstration for natural farming Awareness Programmes on Natural Farming These KVKs organized 418 training programmes on different aspects of Natural Farming and trained 19,363 farmers. These KVKs also organized 3,325 demonstrations on Natural Farming at farmers’ fields. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 173 Summer greengram sowing Demonstration on drone technology by the recognized Remote Pilot Training Organizations (RPTOs).