 It was noted that sugarcane was sporadically grown in active alluvial plains, whereas, maize and wheat were the common crops in young and old alluvial plains. Depressed lands were cultivated for sugarcane and paddy. The farmers get poor economic returns from existing cropping systems because of low input management and soil related constraints. Land Resource Inventory (LRI) based alternate land use options were suggested based on land suitability assessment for crops, plantation and fishery components. Participatory Rural appraisal (PRA) technique was adopted to investigate socio-economic status of the farmers. Data on existing crop yields were collected from farmers’ fields. Yield data for crops under best management practices (BMP) were collected from experimental research stations of local Krishi Vigyan Kendra and SAUs. Benefit to cost ratio and net returns from the land use systems were estimated based on standard guidelines of ICAR. Characteristics of soils of Ushar lands Meander plains occupy nearly 45% of the total geographic area (TGA) of the block. Soils of meander plains were very deep, somewhat poorly drained, coarse silty (silt loam) in textural class, highly calcareous (CaCO3 equivalence 35- 44%), moderately to strongly alkaline (pH 8.0-8.8), medium in electrical conductivity (EC) (1.8-2.6), medium in organic carbon (0.56-0.72%) and high in base saturation (90- 94%). They comprise low available nitrogen (160-270 kg/ha), low available phosphorus (17-19 kg/ha), medium available potassium (185- 270 kg/ha) and were deficient in available zinc (0.40-0.55 mg/kg). High calcareousness is the cause of strong alkalinity and deficiency of macro- and micronutrients in soils. Despite these, soils comprise medium EC due to frequent flooding hazards and prolonged submergence of soils with high ground water table due to the flat relief (0-1% slope) of the meander plains. High calcareousness may not be due to stratification of calcium rich silt materials transported by Burhi Gandak river and / or from the runoff from foot hills of Nepal- Himalayas. They were classified as coarse silty (calcareous) Fluventic Endoaquepts. Maize, wheat and sugarcane are the common crops grown with low productivity from national average. Young alluvial plains encompass nearly 33% of the total geographic area of the block. Soils were very deep, somewhat poorly drained, coarse silty (silt loam), moderately calcareous (CaCO3 equivalence 25-28%), slightly to moderately alkaline (pH 7.6-8.0), low to medium in electrical conductivity (EC) (0.9-1.3), medium to high in organic carbon (0.54- 0.88%) and high in base saturation (82-86%). They comprise medium available nitrogen (340-435 kg/ha), low available phosphorus (9-12 kg/ ha), medium available potassium (180-190 kg/ha) and were sufficient in available zinc (0.60-0.65 mg/ kg). The soils might have formed much earlier than that in meander plains, active flood plains and char lands.