” - MS Swaminathan (1991) The new eco-technologies have become important in the context of achieving the sustainable development goals (SDG) through integration of economic viability with social and environmental sustainability. Gandhian philosophy on agriculture, wherein productivity can be enhanced without harming the environment, is ideal for promoting environmentally sustainable technology. Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 144 Chapter 13 Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education RC Agrawal, G Venkateshwarlu and PS Pandey “Literacy in itself is no education. Literacy is not the end of education or even the beginning. By education I mean an all-round drawing out of the best in the child and man-body, mind and spirit.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Gandhiji was a great educationist and he believed that the social, moral and economic progress of a nation ultimately depends on Education. In his opinion, the highest aim of education is the Self-Realization. His philosophy of education is a harmonious blending of Idealism, Naturalism and Pragmatism. Most of Gandhiji’s important writings on education have been compiled and edited by Bharatan Kumarappa in two books, Basic Education (1951) and Towards New Education (1953). Though these writings are mostly consisting of letters, speeches and extracts from books, together they constitute a Gandhian philosophy of education. About the Agricultural Education, Gandhiji has written “Commerce will have its college. There remains arts, medicine and agriculture. Several private arts colleges are today self-supporting. The State would, therefore, cease to run its own. Medical colleges would be attached to certified hospitals. As they are popular among moneyed men they may be expected by voluntary contributions to support medical colleges. And agricultural colleges to be worthy of the name must be self-supporting. I have a painful experience of some agricultural graduates. Their knowledge is superficial. They lack practical experience. But if they had their apprenticeship on farms which are self-sustained and answer the requirements of the country, they would not have to gain experience after getting their degrees and at the expense of their employers” (Harijan, 31-7-1937). In Gandhian philosophy, education is more comprehensive than that of the literal meaning. He says, “By education I mean an all-round drawing out of the best in child and man–body mind and spirit. Literacy is not the end of education not even the beginning. It is one of the means whereby man and women can be educated. Literacy in itself is no education.” He strongly believed that education is closely associated with the socio-economic development of the society. He took up scheme for basic education in which vocational training or work experience played an important role. It is based on the fact that it stimulates the human mind for creative thinking or dignity of manual labour.