 • Increased demand for setting up of small enterprises, agri-businesses and agri-clinics • Increased linkages and partnerships among public sector institutes and among public and private sector institutes/organizations • Increase in admissions of foreign students • Increase in the demand for consultancy services • Increase in internal resource generation • Increased access to information • Enhanced quality of higher education - academic excellence • Gender relevance and quality • Faculty updation and involvement/e-Education (IT) • Increased research output and quality 2.18. Financial and economic analysis The Project will be integral component of the on-going central sector scheme “Development and strengthening of higher agricultural education in India” during the XII Plan (2012-17) at the Education Division, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi. The cost of the Project will be shared on 50% basis between the World Bank support and the funds made available by the Govt. of India through the above mentioned scheme. 2.19. Sustainability 31 So that agricultural education continues to remain relevant and useful to all stakeholders and levels of performance and improvements in quality of teaching and learning reached during the project period are sustained, it will be essential to ensure adequate funding once the project assistance concludes in 2017. Because of: (i) agreed arrangements with the States, the universities will continue to receive block grants to cover establishment costs, (ii) ICAR will continue to provide development and strengthening grants to pay for the running costs and (iii) name and fame earned in the field of quality of agricultural education will enable SAUs/DUs to generate significant resources internally to maintain quality of teaching and health of working environs and infrastructure. Also States will be approached to allocate at least 1% of the Market Cess collected by them from sale of agricultural produce. With all these arrangements, project activities will be sustained with vigor and sense of commitment. 2.20. Epilogue Improving quality of agricultural education holds the key to propelling not only agricultural growth but also developing technologies for sustainable agriculture leading to livelihood and nutritional security. The attempts made by the ICAR over last two decades through its various schemes, have led to considerable improvement in the quality of higher agricultural education and skills of students but there have been several factors, beyond the control of ICAR, that have adversely affected the improvements in quality of education in some of the areas. Some major factors have been lack of attraction of talented rural and urban youth towards higher agricultural education, shortage of faculty and lack of motivation to them, and inadequate funding support to educational institutions.