 Based on musculoskeletal problems faced by women in wheat harvesting and cotton picking, they have been provided gender friendly improved sickle, capron and cot bag to improve their work efficiency, reduce their drudgery, and enhance agricultural outcomes. Further, the use of improved sickle decreased grip fatigue by 29.85 percent for the left hand; and 39.18 percent for the right hand. Introduction of bio-fortified rice varieties CR Dhan 311 (Mukul) and CR Dhan 315 added an additional protein yield of 3.26 and 3.30 q/ha to the diet of farm families. This could also help in meeting the zinc requirement (20-22 ppm). Causes and Consequences of e-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) on the Economic Development of Indian Agriculture – A Case Study: The e-NAM integrated markets were analysed for the performance with respect to cotton, maize, groundnut, turmeric, chilies. In addition to that tomato, onion, potato and red gram reference markets were studied. The key findings suggest that volume and value of trade for chilies, red gram, maize, paddy, onion and tomato increased after the introduction of e-NAM; whereas for cotton, turmeric and groundnut this has been decreased on account of of preference of farmers in direct sale of produce to ginning and pressing mills. In case of turmeric and groundnut, after the introduction of e-NAM, the volume and value of trade drastically decreased due to impact of COVID-19 especially in 2020 and 2021. Seasonal indices are high for commodities like chilies, cotton, groundnut and turmeric for the period from December to March as arrivals are high during this period. In case of perishable commodities, like onion and tomato, no particular pattern could be detected. Cyclical and irregular variations results revealed in both pre and post e-NAM period that cycles are not clearly observed, but random variations in prices are conspicuous for all the selected commodities. Prices are less volatile in post e-NAM period for cotton, groundnut, maize and red gram when compared to pre e-NAM period. This implies that e-NAM has reduced the price volatility among these crops. Further, it was observed that markets were integrated in post e-NAM period when compared to pre-e-NAM period for almost all the commodities. Entrepreneurship Development through Farmer Led Innovations (FLI)–A Case Study in Plantation Sector: Entrepreneurial Assessment Index and Innovation index were developed to assess the potential of innovators in undertaking entrepreneurial activity based on six identified categories and to analyze novelty, usability and viability of the various FLIs at user level respectively. Two action research were carried out on VINPEPT Black Pepper Thresher and Tractor Operated Farm Waste Shredder for coconut fronds. Validated the augmented FLIs using innovation models/ theories. Identified that Cyclic Model of Innovation is the most suitable model for FLIs in plantation sector.