 Benefits:The benefits that accrue from this technology include increased propagule density per gram of inoculum, freedom from nematodes and pathogens, reduced inoculum dosage. spores within host roots grown on Arka Fermented Cocopeat 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hassaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru-560089 33 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R KeraProbioTM 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): KeraProbioTM: Talc based multifunctional PGPR (Bacillus megaterium) for raising healthy coconut seedlings. The PGPR possess multiple plant growth promotion properties including hormone production and pathogen suppression activities. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Coconut; The bioinoculant is effective for vegetables such as tomato, brinjal and chilli grown as intercrops in coconut garden. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Kerala 4. Validation and commercialization: Validated under AICRP- Palms and farmers’ fields 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: The product has been commercialized to an entrepreneur group of Farmers First Program (FFP) in Pathiyoor panchayath of Aleppey District. The group has launched the product as Kalpakam Kera Probio. The FFP group has applied for obtaining license for their product with Kerala Government through Agriculture Department. 6. Benefits: The main Benefits of application of KeraProbio to coconut seedlings are: i. improved root growth and establishment, ii. better nutrition uptake even from nutrient-poor soils, iii. quicker growth compared to conventionally raised seedlings resulting in development of healthy and robust seedlings. iv. An yield enhancement of 10 -12% nuts/palm/yr when included in organic farming or INM based farming could fetch an additional remuneration to the tune of Rs. 20,000/ha/yr to coconut farmer and if vegetable is cultivated as intercrop, then about Rs. 30-40,000/ha/yr (depending upon the prevailing price). 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kudlu PO Kasaragod-671124 34 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R CocoaProbioTM 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): CocoaProbioTM: A talc based multifunctional PGPR (Pseudomonas putida) for raising healthy cocoa seedlings. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Cocoa 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): South India 4. Validation and commercialization: Evaluated at different cocoa growing places in Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Telangana. 5. Benefits: The application of bioinoculant showed an increase of 56% dry matter contents in cocoa seedlings. The translation of this growth promotion in terms of yield is being evaluated at different cocoa growing places. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kudlu PO Kasaragod-671124 KerAMTM 1.