 The automatic Shri Marutrao Yashwant Sarode, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Narasimha Bhandari,Chickmangalore (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2916 Innovative arecanut dehusking machine 2917 Coconut dehusker machine can peel 20 kg arecanuts in an hour. This machine is four times efficient than an expert labour. The machine is designed to peel betelnut of any size and is better compared with other machines available in the market. Keywords: betelnut, peel, nuts Shri S. Narsimha Bhatt of Dakshin Kannada (Karnataka) has developed an innovative arecanut dehusking machine. The machine has chain conveyor with spacer cups (which fits one arecanut in each spacer cup) that carries arecanuts to the peeling section. There are two wheels (A and B) made of steel. Keywords: arecanut, conveyor, spacer cup Shri R. Jayaseelan of Virudhunagar (Tamil Nadu) innovated a coconut dehusker. A 1.5 HP electric motor is coupled through a belt to a long, cylindrical metal rod. The tip of the rod is fixed with two sharp blades at one side. The blades are 3/4 feet long and are placed at 1" interval. These blades on rotation help dehusk the coconut easily to the desired level. With the use of this machine the husk could be separated into four pieces, leaving some coir fibres on the nut. It can work on an average 150 nuts/hr, i.e. 7,200 nuts (6 x 150 x 8) can be dehusked in a shift of 8 hr. For feeding nuts, 6 labourers are required. The total estimated cost of this coconut dehusker is around Rs 672, including labour charges, electricity and dehusking operation. Key words: dehusk, electric motor, blade, coir Shri S. Narsimha Bhatt, 3/8 Palace Road, village Vittal, dist. Dakshin Kannada (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri R. Jayaseelan, S/o Ramiah Nadar, J.J. ILLAM, 134-B, Kulalar Street, Amasamiapuram, taluka Srivilliputhur, dist. Virudhunagar (Tamil Nadu) 626 133 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2918 Machine for threshing coconut husk for coir industries 2919 Groundnut pod separator/ wool-ginning machine Shri Chandran introduced a machine to thresh paddy from the hay for the first time in Kerala, which became quite popular in the Kuttanad paddy belt, where many farmers have bought it. He introduced a machine for threshing coconut husk for coir industries. About 10 acres coconut plantation can be harvested in a day. This machine costs Rs 3 lakhs. To operate this machine and harvest coconuts, two people are required; one for driving the tractor and another for harvesting the nuts thus saving the time and cost of labour, i.e. Rs 800/day.