 She followed direct sowing in rice that helped her to overcome the labour shortage and also to get the produce 10 days earlier compared to traditional practice. This further helped her Virtual training on nutrient management – KVK, Goalpara Maintaining social distancing during field operations –KVK, Lungle to sow maize crop at correct time by practicing zero tillage in maize. From 3 acres of land, she obtained 3,000 kg of paddy per acre and earned gross returns of ` 1.63 lakh with a net profit of ` 28,450 and B:C ratio of 2.10:1 during kharif 2019–20. She realized highest yield of about 45 q/acre of maize and got gross returns of ` 88,000 with a net profit of ` 64,500/acre and from overall two acres, she realized gross returns of ` 1.76 lakh. In the remaining one acre of land, she had grown sesame crop and achieved an yield of 3 q and earned a net profit of ` 16,000. Thus, she used land effectively by cultivating three crops and innovatively adopting the cost reducing technologies like direct seeding and zero tillage for paddy and maize, thus setting an example to fellow farmers in adoption of labour reducing and cost reducing technologies. Mrs Ramulamma received appreciation certificate from Professor Jayashankar Telangana State Agricultural University, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad on 5th University Foundation Day. Promotion of Farmer Producer Organizations: Indian Council of Agricultural Research signed an MoU with National Cooperative Development Corporation, Government of India, New Delhi for formation and promotion of farmer producer organizations (FPOs). KVKs (56) and ICAR institutes (5) are working as cluster based business organizations for formation of 117 FPOs in 117 blocks of 55 districts in 25 states/ Union Territories of the country. Besides, KVKs are also providing handholding support to the FPOs established by other organizations all over the country. K 15. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions NORTH WEST HIMALAYAS Breeder seed production: During the period, 187 q breeder seed of 47 released varieties/inbreds of 17 crops were produced. A total of 148.36 q breeder seed was supplied to different seed producing agencies to take up further multiplication. Quality seed production: During the period, 9.93 q truthfully labelled (TL) seed of 20 varieties of 13 crops was produced. Including the carry-over stock of TL seed; a total of around 15.4725 q TL seed was supplied to different stakeholders. Crop Production Water budgeting for growing vegetables crops in terraced land: A study was conducted to derive operational model for a farm tank of 46 cubic meter capacity at Experimental Research farm of ICAR- VPKAS, Almora. The tank capacity is efficiently designed to irrigate 0.34 ha area in terms of kharif + rabi + zaid for growing vegetables in terraced land. The estimated water requirement of studied crops (tomato, capsicum, okra, french bean, chilli, vegetable pea, cabbage, broccoli and kidney bean) in 0.