 It can be seen around the moon at nine ‘o’ clock on the night of Vaishakh sudi 8 (eighth day of the bright half of the month of Vaishakh). The rains can be forecast by observing the location of the moon on the sickle. If the moon is on the pointed end of the sickle, scanty rains are indicated. If the moon is positioned at the middle of the sickle, medium rains are indicated. If it is located on the handle of the sickle, the forecast is good for heavy rains (Amreli, Gujarat). Vadodariya (1998) 17 Prediction of rain by clouds and winds If there is accumalation of clouds in layer in South-East direction accompanied by winds blowing from the Southern direction then it is claimed that there will be rainfall within a day or two (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 18 Rainfall prediction by nialu It is believed that on hot summer day the cry of bird called nialu for water brings rainfall (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 19 Rainfall prediction by house swift bird During rainy season farmers observe the matilary bird (house swift) and predict heavy rainfall if bird flies high in the sky (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 20 Prediction of rain by maina bird If the maina bird bathes in water it indicates that there will be rain within one or two days (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 21 Predicting the monsoon The aerial root of the banyan tree serves as a practical moisture indicator during the monsoons. It works like this: the tip of the aerial root is snipped off; if several drops of water flow out, it indicates likelihood of good showers in near future (within couple of days). Given the hydroscopic nature of aerial roots one can expect them to serve as a crude indicator of relative humidity (Baroda, Gujarat). Desai (1996) 22 Rain prediction by observing camel’s leg If there is a swelling on the lower portion of the camel’s leg then the rainfall is predicted. The swelling is probably due to high relative humidity (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 291 15 Food Product Development S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Quality jaggery preparation Using ammonium sulphate in jaggery preparation improves quality and colour of the jaggery because sulphur acts as clarifying (oxidising) agent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 2 Distillation of liquor by dhanti system An empty ghee tin (cannister 15 kg capacity) is made slightly rounded. A temporary stand is placed on which a pot is placed for collecting condensed vapours. The pot is attached to a rubber pipe to receive the liquor in bottles/plastic cans. This has higher efficiency and it also allows the separation of initial drops of the liquor which cantains higher levels of methanol (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 3 Curing of chilgoza The harvested chilgoza cones are collected at one place and covered with chilgoza pine needles, leaves and soil.