40 Upscaling of the technology Fishery is a supplementary occupation in the district even after availability of large number of small and medium water bodies. This business is limited to some families belonging to Kewat, Raikwar, Nishad community. Now due to innovations, improved technology and production, youth of other communities is coming forward and adopting fish farming in a scientific way. Nearly 1200 ponds are available in the district and about 977 are engaged under fish farming. After successful fish farming venture of Mr. Dinesh, 15-20 farmers adopted fish farming with pungasius variety. The training and demonstration given by KVK, Chitrakoot, motivated many farmers to adopt fish farming for ensuring livelihood and nutritional security. Mr. Dinesh Jaiswal is an example for others who are seeking employment. This new farming has helped him to get extra income and employment opportunity. He is very happy to share his success among others and popularizing this system to others in the district as well as state. Economic performance of fish production Performance indicators Pond Farmers Pond Date of stocking 01-04-2022 Area (ha) 0.25 Density 1.6 Initial wt. (g) 5 Final wt. (g) 640 Specific growth rate 1.989 Per Unit Economic performance Pond Farmers Pond Yield (Kg/unit area) 3200 Feed consumed (Kg) 3800 Expenditure (`) 260000 Gross return (`) 364000 B:C ratio 1.4 FCR 1.19 Cost/kg (`) 81.25 Economic performance/ha Study pond Farmers Pond Date of harvesting 30-11-2022 Yield/ha (`) 11840 Expenditure/ha (`) 1040000 Gross return/ha (`) 1456000 Net return (`/ha) 416000 SUMMARY Fish farming is a profitable enterprise and can be a viable option for marginal and small farmer to improve their socio-economic status. Furthermore, it could contribute to current issues of food and nutritional security at the household, community and national levels. Fish farming is predominantly appropriate for those farmers who face severe trouble with salinity in their soil, as traditional crops struggle to grow well in saline conditions. Therefore, the fresh water as well as marine fish farming can be treated as alternative source of traditional agriculture and may be integrated with it e.g. fish farming in crop field to enhance the productivity and income. *Corresponding author email: skumar710@gmail.com Mr Dinesh with his fish pond My : Ss Mr Dinesh with his fish pond of diseases etc. Considering these issues, here comes the multidimensional role of KVKs in nurturing of aquaculture and development of aquapreneurs. From creating awareness and promotion of fish farming among poor farmers, KVK has vital role in introduction and popularization of new and improved technologies of fish farming. Role of fish farming in livelihood security Sri Dinesh Jaiswal, S/o Sri Chotaka, a young farmer belonging to small farmer category was unemployed and habitant of Village - Itwa, District — Chitrakoot (Uttar Pradesh). He was performing crop farming only on a small piece of land.