 Fungal exotoxins of feed origin, their adverse effects on poultry, and methods to overcome them. Different systems of feeding wet mash, dry mash, crumble and pellet feeding. Restricted and phase feeding programme. Male separate feeding. Factors influencing the feed intake. Feed ingredients and sources of various nutrients. Quality control and BIS specifications for feed ingredients. Unconventional feed stuffs and their utilization for economic feed formulation. Feed formulation for different species and groups. Least cost feed formulation and linear programming. Non – nutrient feed additives. Antibiotics, probiotics – direct feed microbials, antimicrobials, anticoccidials, performance-promoters, antioxidants, flavouring agents, colouring agents and other non-nutrient feed additives. Unit 3: Avian Physiology Homeostasis and its regulation; Characteristics features of endocrine glands; Regulation of feed and water intake; Feed Passage rate in G.I. tract in relation to digestion and absorption efficiency; Functional regulation of digestion, absorption and metabolism of nutrients; Endocrine control and variable factors influencing growth process; Mechanisms that determines the sex and allows the development of left ovary and oviduct only; Physiological control of age at sexual maturity, ovarian follicular hierarchy, atresia, ovulation, oviposition, pause, clutch size and secretion of egg components; Photoperiodism and its role in optimization of reproductive functions; physiology of avian testes, spermatogenesis, semen ejaculation and its characteristics. Fate of sperm in oviduct and fertilization; Respiratory system – mechanisms of gaseous exchange; Thermoregulatory and 55 stress mechanisms; Physio-biochemical stress responses and remedial approaches; Factors influencing reproductive functioning. Unit 4: Poultry Products Technology Structure, chemical composition and nutritive value of egg. Various measures of egg quality. Shell, albumen and yolk quality assessment. Factors influencing egg quality traits. Mechanism of deterioration of egg quality. Weight and quality grades of egg as per BIS, Agmark and USDA standards. Egg processing and storage. Different methods of preservation of table eggs and their relative merits and demerits. Preparation of various egg products and their uses. Processing, packing, preservation and grading of poultry meat. Further processing and fast food preparation. Physical, chemicals, microbial and organoleptic evaluation of meat quality. Processing and utilization of egg and poultry processing waste. Unit 5: Poultry Management Poultry industry in India – past, present and future prospects. Statistics of egg and meat production in India. Major constraints facing the poultry industry. Selection, care and storage of hatching eggs. Principles and methods of incubation. Concept of modern hatcheries. Factors essential for incubation of eggs. Testing of eggs. High altitudes and hatchability of eggs. Embryonic communication.