 68 A view of some participants of MACE 2022 Panel Discussion Themes in MACE yy The need for mainstreaming agriculture in school education yy Opportunities and challenges in introducing agriculture as a mainstream subject in line with NEP 2020 yy Curriculum level changes required to introduce agriculture as a mainstream subject in secondary education yy Prospects for employability in agriculture by introducing agriculture as a mainstream subject in secondary education There is also a need to provide specialized training to equip teachers on focussed pedagogy. Brainstorming session on Mainstreaming Agricultural Curriculum in School Education (MACE) To address the above needs, ICAR organized a brainstorming session on ‘Mainstreaming Agricultural Curriculum in School Education’ (MACE) on 14 June 2022, with specific objectives. Participants of the brainstorming session comprised representation from key educational bodies like Central Board of Secondary Education (CBSE), National Council of Educational Research and Training (NCERT), State Council of Educational Research & Training (SCERT), Principals and Teachers from public and private schools from Delhi, National Capital Region, subject matter experts from ICAR and its institutes. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar, Hon'ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, graced the occasion as the Chief Guest of the inaugural session. In his inaugural address, he applauded the efforts of ICAR to align with NEP 2020 and undertake the initiative. He mentioned that this is a first but firm step towards deliberating upon the need for scaling up of agriculture as a core subject in school curriculum to develop students’ knowledge and understanding of agricultural enterprises, practices and skills required in refining the “farm to fork” value chain. He also assured that the government is making concerted efforts to bring agriculture curriculum into the mainstream of school education under the NEP 2020. Shri Tomar said that if the interest towards agriculture sustains in the children from the school level, then they will be able to move towards agriculture after college. In the present circumstances, agriculture sector is going to create a lot of employment opportunities in the foreseeable future. In this regard, he mentioned about linking agriculture with technology and setting up of a Agriculture Infrastructure Fund. The Inaugural session was followed by four panel discussions, wherein participants provided insights and offered their perspectives on the thematic topics. All the panellists unanimously agreed that agriculture as a subject must be introduced in schools as an equivalent subject to physics, chemistry and mathematics. They recommended to increase the awareness about agricultural education in the schools and introduce agriculture and allied OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 69 sciences in school education curriculum.