 HRD programmes/ activities, which facilitated promotion and execution of ICAR sponsored schemes which include—centralized admissions in UG/PG and PhD to reduce academic inbreeding, infuse merit and promote national integration; fellowships to attract and retain the talent and promote merit; admission of foreign students for globalization of Indian agricultural education system; capacity building of faculty through summer-winter schools and Centre of Advanced Faculty Training; National Professorial Chairs and National Fellow Scheme for promotion of excellence; Emeritus Scientist/Emeritus Professor Schemes as a structural method of utilizing skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals. The support for Girls’ hostels, under the scheme of Agricultural Education Division helped increase the number of girls in higher agricultural education to 42%, and also increased the overall intake of the students. The improved and modern infrastructure pertaining to teaching and learning facilities and capacity building of the faculty also enhanced the number of research publications in high impact journals out of PG research. NAHEP-Achievements: NAHEP is designed to strengthen the national agricultural education system in India with overall objective to provide more relevant and high quality education to agricultural university students. Out of 75 participating Agricultural Universities (AUs), 44 AUs were awarded under Institutional Development Plan (IDP), Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST) and Innovation Grants (IG) component. Under Component 2 (Investments in ICAR for Leadership in Agricultural Higher Education) to IASRI was awarded as lead center and NAARM, Hyderabad and NIAP as cooperating centers. Under IDP, 39 new facilitative units (IIIC- Industry Institution Interaction Cell/Start up cell/ incubation cell/ experiential learning unit/placement cell etc.) for strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure were established. Under Training and capacity building, select students from 19 participating AUs and faculty members were sent for overseas training. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 7 OVERVIEW About 280 students (UG, PG and PhD) received international trainings under the 3 sub-components of NAHEP. About 85 Faculty members from partcipapating AUs underwent training in various International Universities. Ten MoUs have been signed with overseas universities such as University of Arkansas and University of North Georgia for student and faculty training and exposure visits. Agricultural economics and policy: ICAR-NIAP provided technical facilitation in designing the framework for Ease of Doing Agriculture Index. The index will help in fostering agricultural development among various states. Land holding size showed a significant negative impact on the probability of shifting from cultivation to livestock.