 ENGAGED IN THE CONDUCT OF SUPERVISION OF RESEARCH BY virtue of my employment as • at the • , a constituent of the Indian Council of Agricul- tural Research, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi-110001 (a society registered under the Societies Registration Act XXI of 1860) hereinafter referred to- as "The Council" and also in consideration of the financial and other assis- tance provided or to be provided to me by the said Council, I— — son/daughter/wife of —•, agree and declare as follows: 1. I shall from time to time disclose fully to the Council or to any person as the Council may direct, the progress of any investigations (here- inafter referred to as "the said investigation") undertaken by me while in the employment of the Council and, if within a period of three years after the termination of such employment I shall make any invention arising out of or in connection with the said investigation, I shall hold the same in trust on behalf of the Council and forthwith disclose to the said Council, or to any person the Council may direct, a full and complete description and the nature of the said invention and the mode of performing the same. 2. The Council will have the sole right to publish the results of the said investigation in its own journals before these are published elsewhere. I shall not publish the results of these investigations without the prior approval of the Council. 3. The said inventions and all improvements thereon, discovered or invented by me during the course of my employment under the Council or within a period of three years after the termination of such employment or assistance, as aforesaid, shall, subject to such reservations (if any) in respect of the said invention or the proceeds thereof as the Council may in its creation permit for my benefit, be the sole and absolute property of the Council. 4. I shall, whenever required by the Council, and at the expense of the Council, join the Council, or as the Council may direct in applying for Letters Patent in India and other countries in respect of the said invention or its subsequent improvements and shall on request by and at the cost of the Council, execute and do all such instruments and things necessary to vest in the Council, or any person appointed by the Council in that behalf, 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 45 the said inventions and improvements and any Letters Patent that may be obtained in respect thereof. Paticulars of my appointment and birth are given below: (a) Date of appointment and particulars of letter. (b) Date of birth Signed this day the of 19 at . (Signature of the candidate employed) APPENDIX IH A. R. S. AND RESEARCH MANAGEMENT POSITIONS— DISCIPLINARY/APPELLATE AUTHORITIES IN ICAR INDIAN Council of Agricultural Research is a Society registered under the Societies Registration Act, I860. As per Bye-Law 30 of the Bye-Laws of the Council, the rules and regulations framed by the Government of India are followed by ICAR mutatis-mutandis.