14 Specialized Off-Campus Capacity Building Programme Specialized Off-Campus Capacity Building Programme for the combined group of scientists, technical and administrative personnel of DRWA, Bhubaneswar was organized by NAARM, Hyderabad in which 26 officials participated. 7.3.15 Training Programmes for Skilled Support Staff (SSS) This is the category of staff which perform the duties at the grassroot level like field operations; assist in laboratory works; physical maintenance of records; general cleanliness and upkeep of the Section/Unit/Institutes; carrying files and other papers within and outside the building; photocopying; sending FAX; other non-clerical work like diary, dispatch, dak delivery; watch and ward duties, opening and closing the office; any other work assigned by the superior authority, etc. Earlier it was even not thought to provide any sort of training to such category of staff which provide the base for moving the ICAR system forward year after year. Immediately after creation of the HRM Unit, emphasis was given for training Training for Assistants/AAOs/JAOs/AF&AOs/SOs of ICAR at CCARI, Goa 22 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) need assessment of all the categories of staff including Skilled Support Staff (SSS). All the ICAR Institutes identified the training needs of SSS during 2015-16 which were updated during 2016-17. Thirty-one training need areas emerged for such category of staff, which is difficult to visualize. Institutes were directed to arrange training programmes in the Institute itself based on TNI and so far 232 training programmes have been conducted in which 1882 Skill Support Staff have been trained since 2014. The feedback received from various Institutes is as follows: ï SSS are doing their job sincerely and timely with great dedication ï SSS are feeling themselves as a part of ICAR system and never thought that ICAR will provide such a nice opportunity to them to sit in the conference/seminar halls for getting training. 7.3.16 In-house Training of Employees of ICAR HQs In order to effectively utilise the services of the competent administrative and finance officers posted at ICAR HQs to train those officials who have doubts or lack of knowledge to deal particular type of files/cases, first time weekly (one-hour one-day/week) in-house trainings at ICAR HQs was initiated without any financial liability. About 340 administrative staff of ICAR HQs have participated in such training sessions. 7.3.17 Training for Retiring Employees for Better, Peaceful and Healthy Post-retirement Life ICAR is not only arranging training programmes for the serving employees of all categories but also provide opportunity to those employees who are going to retire shortly to acquaint them with the benefits admissible on their retirement; various investment plans where they can park their funds; income tax clauses concerning investment and how to live healthy and happy retired life, etc.