 Artificial limb for large animals was designed and developed. Fisheries Management: ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) provided valuable insights into the health of India’s marine fisheries. Overall, 135 marine finfish and shellfish stocks were assessed using marine fish landings and species- specific biology data from 1,168 landing centers from the Northwest, Southwest, Northeast, Southeast and Lakshadweep regions. Of the 135 fish stocks assessed (Northeast–16, Northwest–37, Southeast–39, Southwest–41, Lakshadweep–2) in 2022, 91.1% were healthy. The report also identifies management measures that could be applied to the fish stocks/species that are of concern with regional approaches that will ensure their sustainability. ICAR-CMFRI and CSIR-Central Salt and Marine Chemical Research Institute (CSMCRI) have identified potential sites for seaweed farming in 9 coastal states and 4 Union Territories of our country. Sites identified (384) were categorized into green zones (> 1 km from CRZ-IA), amber zones (up to 1 km from CRZ-IA), and blue zones (within CRZ-IA and ESA), with 24,707 ha identified as suitable for seaweed farming. ICAR-CMFRI has brought out a document on good management practices to promote and support sustainable farming of seaweeds in India. ICAR-CIFRI, through intensive surveys, estimated fish catch and related information from some of the major rivers. In River Mahanadi, the annual total catch was estimated to be 15,134 tonnes with catch per unit effort (CPUE) ranging between 0.18 kg and 18.88 kg/fisher/day. The 32 bacterial isolates recovered in this study were from Bacillaceae, Burkholderiaceae, Enterobacteriaceae and Aeromonadaceae families; species, viz. Lysinibacillus fusiformis, L. macroides, Bacillus subtilis, B. safensis and Citrobacter freundii exhibited ability to remove ammonia. ICAR-CIFRI has developed the RiverAquaMap, a national web application, for navigating river aquatic environment based on information from primary and secondary sources. The backend water quality data comprises DO, BOD, water temperature, pH, specific conductivity, nitrate, and nitrite. All the parameters are navigable on spatio-temporal scale on 2,667 locations distributed over the Indian river system for the period from 2007 to 2020. ReportFishDisease App developed by ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow under National Surveillance Programme for Aquatic Animal Diseases (NSPAAD) was launched on 28 June, 2023. ICAR-CIFA developed a vaccine, “CIFA-brood-Vac” for vaccinating female Indian major carps and catfish brooders in order to enhance the production of disease resistant spawns up to 30%. ICAR-CIFRI developed circular HDPE cages having 16 m diameter and 5 m depth and 900 cubic meter water area. These cages were used to rear adult hilsa Tenualosa ilisha and Indian major carps in river Ganga.