 Moreover, it is suggested to research the role of product attributes in influencing consumers’ purchase intention, consumption, and satisfaction with dairy products to provide a promising direction for different dairy product producers to adopt modern dairy farm systems and alternative marketing models to deliver high value-added dairy products and gain the price premium. Way forward Dairy cooperatives have an essential role in providing sustainable income to the farmers. The dairy cooperatives also ensure social justice and equitable distribution of resources. The marginal dairy farmers need help competing with large-scale dairy companies to purchase inputs and sell milk production. However, dairy cooperatives would help marginal and small dairy farmers reap the benefits of economies of scale. However, it is discouraging that dairy cooperatives handle only one-fifth of total milk production in India. The Indian government has consistently promoted the dairy sector by implementing several schemes. However, despite these efforts, the cooperative dairy sector faces several challenges, including a lack of scientific management and remunerative pricing, illiteracy among its members, and a lack of training /educational opportunities, which make it difficult for cooperatives to contribute maximally to total milk production. The milk cooperatives can easily double their capacity by strengthening and providing more technological support, improving forward- backward linkages, effective and efficient marketing channels, quality parameters, friendly institutional laws, and strengthening cooperative governance. Cooperative dairy companies, dairy producer organizations, and private- cooperative participation are also needed to strengthen small-scale dairy holders. Regular camps among customers’ localities and farmers’ meetings should be organized to create awareness about the working and benefits of dairy cooperatives for members and society. In the regions where the dairy cooperatives spread is lesser, the success stories of dairy cooperatives should be transmitted to strengthen regional coverage. *Corresponding author's e-mail: dineshbhu195@gmail.com Plant trees, Conserve water, Protect environment. Indian Farming 11 October 2023 Dual purpose wheat for fodder and grain production Shilpashree G R1, Hardev Ram1*, Meena R K1, Rakesh Kumar1 and Anurag Saxena1 1ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Presently, India faces a net deficit of 35.6% green fodder, 10.95% dry crop residues and 44% concentrate feed ingredients. In India, more than 85% of the farmers are small and marginal with small land holdings and a small number of livestock. These farmers are unable to put the required area under green fodder due to scarce land resources as a result foodgrain crops get preference over fodder crops and generally farmers feed livestock with dry fodder and straw which reduce the overall productivity of milch animals.