 A study on land tenancy structure in Indian agriculture revealed that agricultural income influences the leased-in-area positively. Prevalence of marketing constraints of onion are affecting onion production. Technology Assessment, Refinement and Transfer is achieved through 261 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), 8 Trainers’ Training Centres (TTCs), 70 Centres of Institution-Village Linkage Programme (IVLP), 60 Centres of Technology Evaluation and Impact Assessment and 40 Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs), besides the National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture (NRCWA). During the period, trainings were organized for farmers (13,884), rural youth (3,011) and in- service personnel (1,480), and kisan melas, field days, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 8 kisan gosthies, exhibitions etc. were arranged for dissemination of information. The TTCs organized 229 training courses to 5,513 participants. The KVKs also identified various technologies for on-farm testing to evaluate and assess its impact on specific location. The KVKs produced/distributed to the farmers the seed of cereals, oilseeds, pulses and vegetables; saplings of fruits; seedlings of vegetables, species, forest trees, ornamental and plantation crops; and fingerlings and spawn of fish. Increased yield in cereal, pulse, oilseed, fodder and horticultural crops was shown through the frontline demonstrations. Rice bran and mustard oil-cake showed more growth rate in rohu than poultry litter and cow-dung. The salient findings of the NRCWA include the start of 14 research projects; preference of farm women for Shree Samrat sweet potato on account of its favourable characters; motivation of farm women to start small-scale poultry farm; involvement of 90% women workers in agricultural activities; and design refinement of sitting type- groundnut corticator for women workers. Under Mission Mode Project about 1,730 information on ITK were received through voluntary disclosure on different aspects of agriculture and allied areas. The project is operative through 10 zonal leaders with more than 100 potential co-operating centres. In Research for Tribal and Hill Regions, major accomplishments of the Central Agricultural Research Institute, Port Blair, includes confirmation of ample genetic diversity in the available rice accessions indigenous to Bay Islands; collection of under-utilized plants Malayan apple and durian; induction of in-vitro flowering and fruiting in tomato from calli generated from leaf explants; collection and cataloguing of 10 species of orchids; development of quicken hybrid between Nicobari fowl and Japanese quail; collection of 31 species of grouper (important sea-food species); successful induction of one set of putative transgenic rohu; creation of database on crops, livestock, poultry and fisheries and its availability on Institute’s website; successful control of humpsore disease; and management of rhinoceros beetle in coconut.