 Way forward The horticulture sector is plagued with some persistent problems like unavailability of quality planting material; threats of emerging insect pests and diseases and nutrient deficiencies; increased frequency of abiotic stresses like salinity and drought, flooding, hailstorm and high temperature; lack of post-harvest handling along with processing infrastructure. Poor processing and lack of storage infrastructure is a deterrent for farmers as prices crash in glut season; insufficient investments and absence of organized and regulated marketing system, besides, conventional handling of horticultural produce are other drawbacks, which result in poor and uncertain monitory returns to the growers. Further, from food shortage to food surplus, India endeavors to create revolution in horticulture. Horticulture has emerged as an important business opportunity for growers, processors, retailers and exporters. Under these circumstances, we need to look for disruptive technologies to deal with the challenges of future. Research that enables growers to adopt innovative practices and technologies, lowering the costs of production are the need of the hour. Cost reduction can be achieved through deployment of novel technologies, which allow more efficient use of inputs, including water, nutrient, energy and labour. The power of artificial intelligence, unmanned aerial vehicles, GIS and remote sensing should be pursued for inducting precision in farming, smart agro-engineering tools and gadgets to enhance Indian Agriculture after Independence 132 efficiency of nutrient and water use, plant protection interventions and to develop location- specific precision farming regimes. Promotion of weather-resilient crop varieties, vigilant bio-security system and strengthening climate risk information should be accorded top priority to minimize crop losses because of natural disasters. Emphasis on use of renewable and alternate energy sources, application of sensors and nano-technologies, safe and natural farming in identified agro-ecological zones for efficient resource management, intensive and alternate production systems like vertical farming. Genome sequencing initiatives in ICAR of major crops like mango, coconut, pomegranate, oil palm and potato shall come handy in their breeding efforts. Challenges are for brining precision in crop improvement using Omics and Gene Editing tools, production systems with more application of use of AIs, space and GIS technologies too. 5. Conclusion To achieve the greatest impact from investments in research and innovation, there is a need for coordinated strategic approach by all stakeholders to achieve a balance of both short- and long-term goals.