 : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. January–February 2022 9 Vinod Kumar*, Jaipal Singh Choudhary and Seshdhar Pande Technology L itchi stink bug (LSB) (Tessaratoma javanica) recently invaded the litchi orchards of Bihar where it has potential to completely wipe out litchi cultivation from the state. Pest found its way to get introduced in Bihar in 2018 when it was observed in some orchards in Damodarpur and Mirzapur village of Mehsi block in East Champaran district of Bihar. From few orchards in the beginning years, the area of infestation increased nearly 3 km in 2021 during litchi season (February-June 2021). In the month of August-September, litchi is in vegetative phase and stink bug infestation is discernible in orchards in adjoining area like Chakiya, Madhuban and Kalyanpur blocks of East Champaran. Litchi stink bug (LSB) possibly got entry in Bihar from neighboring state Jharkhand, most likely carried through logwood transported in Lowry or some private vehicles coming from Jharkhand. Jharkhand has kusum trees (Schleichera oleosa; Family Sapindaceae; the same family to which litchi belongs) which is a natural host of the stink bug and is abundantly found in Ranchi and adjoining districts of Jharkhand where LSB is reported to be the major pest of litchi. Litchi stink bug Though a regular pest of litchi in North Eastern states, usually a low incidence is reported from different regions of India. However in recent years, incidence of T. javanica has increased particularly in Jharkhand and the north eastern states. The peak incidence of the pest was 1.21-4.09 bugs (nymphs and adults) per shoot during 2008 in north-western India. An outbreak of T. javanica in the Chhotanagpur plateau region of Jharkhand during February-March 2012 was also reported, causing severe losses (up to 80%) to litchi fruits. Pest found its way to get introduced in Bihar (2018).