 Cultivation of DMRO-484 and DMRO-463 strains of the paddy straw mushroom Flower crops Vertical farming was standardized for growing important high value flower crops like Gerbera and Lilium by utilization of 11 feet vertical space of the polyhouse. This will increase the planting density and yield and reduction of water requirement significantly. Ascomata formation in Morchella importuna strain ANI1 during third trial in 2021-22 Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 105 Spice crops Developed nutritional and chemical fingerprints of popular turmeric varieties: Seventeen turmeric genotypes were characterized for different quality parameters and among the genotypes, seven varieties considered as high curcuminoid varieties (curcumin > 4%). Lowest curcumin and oleoresin were observed in Santra (0.24% and 5.52%). All the varieties recorded essential oil greater than 4%, in which Rajendra Sonia and Varna had significantly high essential oil (6.40%). Effects of nano ZnO on soil microbial communities: The effects of nano ZnO (nZnO) on the compositional and functional responses of bacterial communities in soils were examined using high throughput sequencing. The heat map visualization with hierarchical clustering of the relative abundance (RA) of top 25 phyla and genera showed distinct differences in bacterial community structure. Dominant phyla like Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Planctomycetes, Acidobacteria, Chloroflexi and Bacteriodetes accounted for 80% RA, while Verrucomicrobia, Gemmatimonadetes, Nitrospirae, Cyanobacteria and Patescibacteria contributed 10% RA. In general, Zn addition as nZnO or bZnO caused significant variations in the bacterial community composition. Effect of organic, conventional, and integrated management practices on productivity and quality of turmeric varieties: Effect of different management systems on soil nutrient availability of turmeric at 120 DAP indicated that the organic carbon, nitrogen, calcium, and iron were higher under the organic management system. Effect of different management systems on yield of turmeric varieties indicated that INM 50-50 management system recorded maximum yield (30.3 t/ha) that was at par with organic (29.14 t/ha). Among the varieties, Pragati recorded the highest yield (51.88 t/ha). Response of Turmeric varieties to organic farming revealed that Suguna and Pragati recorded maximum yield (56 t/ha). Microbial consortia for enhancing the growth and yield of cumin and coriander: Application ofPseudomonas aeruginosa DCU-451 + PSB- Bacillus subtilis or Bacillus pacificus DCU 651+ PSB -Bacillus subtilis enhanced 13.01-18.45% seed yield in cumin. Application of Bacillus paramycoides DCU-22 + PSB-Bacillus subtilis enhanced 26.98% seed yield in coriander. Micronutrient management in cumin: Application of half recommended dose of zinc, iron, manganese and boron as soil application along with their foliar spray is recommended for obtaining higher yield (684.6 kg/ha) and returns (3.