 Offshoot preparation in Date palm: Methods, maintenance and care Date palm (Phoenix dactylifera L.) is one of the oldest cultivated fruit crops in the world and belongs to the family Arecaceae. It is believed to be originated in Mesopotamia (Current-day Iraq) during 4000 BC. From its origin, the cultivation has spread and has become a major crop in Arabian Peninsula, North Africa and the Middle Eastern countries. In India, date palm cultivation is believed to be 450-500 years old with the major cultivation concentrated in Kachchh district of Gujarat accounting for more than 85% of India’s total area and cultivation. The crop is dioecious, monocotyledon plants and can grow in very hot and dry climate. It can relatively tolerate saline and alkaline soils. Being a dioecious crop, high heterozygosity is observed in its population and to maintain its quality characters, they are asexually propagated through offshoots. Since, one palm produces only 10-20 offshoots in initial duration of 10-15 years; mass production of the planting material becomes very difficult and thus needs special care. Prepared offshoots in date palm Indian Horticulture 30 Selection of mother plants and offshoots Mother plant should be healthy, high yielding with desirable qualities and bear good quality fruits. The same method can be followed for both male and female plants. Plants should be preferably disease or pest free. For proper development of the plant along with good harvest of offshoot, it is better to maintain average of 3-5 offshoots per plant. Offshoots that emerges from the base of the plants are called as ‘ground offshoot’ and the offshoots emerging from the trunk are called as ‘aerial offshoot’. Since the ground offshoots touch the soil, natural rooting from the ground is observed which allows higher success rate during propagation. For effective propagation of the offshoots, it is best to select 2-3 years old ground offshoots which weigh about 10-15 kg. Preparation of offshoots The offshoots are prepared by cleaning the base of the offshoots by removing the surrounding soil and peeling the outer area using sickle. The exposed area is treated with IBA@2000 mg/L. The base of the offshoot is then covered with the plastic bag, long enough to cover the surface, they are tied and media is filled and tighten. For higher rooting, mixture of soil + FYM or soil + vermicompost (1:1 ratio) is beneficial. Offshoots are allowed to root for 4-6 months before planting in the field. If natural moisture is not available, make arrangements by using drip to regularly wet the surface. While removing the outer surface of offshoots, care should be taken that the cut should not be too deep to damage the offshoots and the mother palm. Media should be devoid of stones and moisture must be maintained in prepared offshoot for better root initiation. Transplanting of offshoots When the offshoots are rooted, they are ready to be detached from the main plant.