 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 16 Enhancing germination of bottle gourd by keeping it in Fyol Seeds are soaked in water and wrapped in moist cotton cloth. This moist bag is put in a vessel and buried in farmyard manure for a day. The logic behind this practice is that the moisture of wet cotton and the heat produced inside the manure heap softens the seed coat thereby enhancing germination. Sometimes farmers merely keep the seeds in water for 24 hours, but they report that the first mentioned method, though more laborious, gives better result (Kutch, Gujarat). Jadeja (1993) 17 Improving quality of dates by prunning To improve the quality and quantity of dates, 50% pruning is done as soon as they set in. The remaining flowers bear bigger fruits. These fruits last long and fetch higher prize in the market (Bhuj, Gujarat). Patel (2001d) 18 Pasting cowdung ball to cut ends for better sprouting and rooting The practice of pasting cowdung ball to cut ends of plants help in better sprouting and rooting by reducing dessication and acts as a promotor (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 19 Pruning apical buds in bottle gourds for higher production in off season Some farmers grow bottle gourd and other vegetables in summer when the prices of these are high. They allow the apical shoot to grow till it bears five or six flowers. After that only the lateral branches are allowed to grow till they bear five or six flowers. The apical bud of the lateral branch is then snipped and only the sub-lateral branches are allowed to grow. Farmers say that this practice improves the quality of vegetable (Kheda, Gujarat). Parmar (1993c) 20 Prevention of dropping off gourd flowers In crops like ridge gourd, bottle gourd and pine gourd, flower dropping is a severe problem. To prevent it, 25 g 'hing' (asafoetida) is powdered and dissolved in one litre of water and sprayed on the crop (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Baraiya (1994a) 21 Propagating date palm through suckers When approximately 5 or 6 years old date palm trees produce suckers from the stem near the ground. The suckers strike roots as they come in contact with soil and can be used to raise new plants. But when suckers sprout from higher up on the stem, that is, at about one metre or more above the ground level they do not reach the soil and hence do not produce roots. A method has been evolved to make the high up suckers strike roots so that they can be used for propagating Turq (1996) 164 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference the plant. Soil is mixed with organic manure in polyethyene bags and ties them around the suckers sprouting from the higher points of the stem. The bags are secured in such a way that soil and a portion of stem remain in contact; after a few days these suckers also strike roots. Suckers which develop roots are separated from the parent and transplanted along with the bags in the field.