D students services are to be utilized. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING Rapporteur : Dr Bhaskar Rao, ANGRAU, Hyderabad A total of 15 Deans from different States participated. The following resolutions were made: 1. Almost all the colleges face more than 50% shortage of teaching staff. 2. To improve excellence among the students, the admissions into B.Tech (Agri. Engineering) should be made through the entrance examination conducted by respective States for engineering courses. This is not being followed in some States. 3. Placement cells of all colleges should be strengthened by placing one regular person in the cadre of Professor in each College and allotting some budget on recurring contingencies. 4. The ICAR should address all State Governments to include a paper on Agricultural Engineering subject in the Group Services or the Public Service Commission of respective States. 5. The State Governments should also be addressed to employ agricultural engineering graduates in the Departments of Irrigation and Agriculture. 24 6. All colleges will set up Experiential Learning Units in the areas of their strengths which will be shared for hands-on-training by the students of other colleges. 7. The critical areas for ICAR grants are identified as (1) Experiential Learning Units Establishment (2) Students Training on Personality Development, Soft and Communication Skills. 8. Some colleges do not have girls hostels and buses for students transport. 9. Modernization of all class rooms, examination hall, library and old buildings of colleges need funding from ICAR. VETERINARY SCIENCE Rapporteur : Dr P. Narayan Reddy, ANGRAU, Hyderabad No suggestion other than seeking more funds from ICAR was given. DAIRY TECHNOLOGY Facilitators : Dr Ramesh Chandra, Allahabad Rapporteur : Dr M. Sreedhar, ANGRAU, Hyderabad Following were the recommendations: 1. The faculty position and training period are detailed below: Faculty Training Period (Months) 1. AAU, Anand 34 12 2. UAS, Bangalore 22 12 3. SKDAU, S.K. Dantiwada 7 12 4. Pusa, Maharashtra 16 12 5. SVVU, Tirupati 19 12 6. NDRI, Karnal 36 12 7. SHIATS, Allahabad 11 12 2. Rural Dairy Work Experience Programme for a duration of 10 days with farmers is to be organized by all colleges as per the convenience of the college. 3. Under Technology Business Incubator System, interested students may be sent for 14 days training to Karnal and ICAR may provide funds to NDRI Karnal accordingly. 25 4. The shortage of faculty can be addressed by engaging qualified teachers on contractual basis @ Rs 16,500 per month. 5. To attract more number of students for Dairy technology the selection of the eligible students may be carried out through GUJCET/CET & also by sensitizing the people through media regarding the merit of the Dairy course. FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY The following delegates attended: Dr P.S. Kadam Dean, Faculty of Food Technology Marathwada Agricultural University, Parbhani Dr M.