 In T2, T3 and T4, tryptophan content increased at the flowering- initiation stage. One of the possible mechanisms for increased tryptophan accumulation at initial stage under different bending and pruning treatments might be due to protein breakdown, which might be correlated with reduced amount of total soluble protein found in the present investigation in the leaves at flower initiation stage. This might also be explained with the appearance of N-malonyl D-tryptophan, which is supposed to induce tryptophan synthesis. However, this had not been studied in the present study. 6.Total phenol: Total phenol content (mg/g dry wt. basis) in leaves and barks of guava shoots as affected by different bending and pruning treatments are given in Table 6. As such the leaves and barks in control sample showed higher amount of total phenols, i.e. 11.7 to 13.8 and 4.48 to 5.42 mg/g, respectively. But under treatments the leaves showed an increase in phenol content at flower- initiation stage from the initial stage, whereas there was a decreasing trend in phenol content in bark at later stage except T4 treatment where phenol content increased in bark at mature stage. The result emphasized translocative nature of total phenol from bark to leaves. Higher accumulation of total phenolics might be due to liberation of phenolic amino acids. Besides translocation, the possible reason for decrease in phenol content at later stage in bark might be attributed to increased activity of peroxidase, catalase and polyphenoloxidase. Petroleum ether extracted lipid fraction Lipid content (%) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different bending and pruning system is presented in Table 9. Lipid content Table 8. Total phenol content (mg/g) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 9. Lipid content (%) in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different treatments increased markedly in leaves (except T2), but in bark it decreased significantly (except T3 and T4) with maturity. There was no significant difference in the control samples of leaf and bark from initial stage to flower-initiation stage. The bark sample in initial stage contained more amount of lipid than leaf. Changes in lipid content might be due to the changes in lipid-metabolizing enzymes. Usually lipids are the important constituent of all the cell membranes, which play a central role in functional integrity of cell and organelles. The higher percentage of lipid in the bark at the initial stage and in the leaves at the later stage might be due to the tendency of the plants to overcome the shock effect of bending and pruning while maintaining the functional integrity of cells and organelles. Enzyme activity Peroxidase and catalase activity Peroxidase and catalase activity in leaves and barks at only initial stage under bending treatment respectively.