 Due to development of indigenous processing varieties, availability of suitable raw material and adoption of improved storage technologies, the potato processing activity both in the organized and unorganized sector has increased from <1% in late nineties to about 7.5% in 2009-10. Processing has helped to reduce the post-harvest losses and it not only results in economic gains to the farmers but also provide better food and nutritional security to the country. Keeping in view the future demand of raw material for processing in India and utilization of more potato produce towards value addition, short duration varieties having good yield potential (30-35 t/ha) with high dry matter (21-23%) and low reducing sugars (150 Kufri FryoM mg/100 g fresh weight) are required. India is the world’s second largest potato-producing nation with 51.3 million tonnes production during 2017- 2018. Demand for processing quality potatoes over next 40 years is expected to rise at the fastest pace for French fries (11.6% ACGR) followed by potato flakes/ powder (7.6%) and potato chips (4.5%). The actual demand for processing potatoes will rise from 2.8 million t in 2010 to 25 million t during the year 2050 at an ACGR of 5.61% (CPRI Vision 2050). The increased demand of processing potatoes could be met by growing the new potato varieties developed by Central Potato Research Institute. For further interaction, please write to: Dr V K Gupta Dr V K Gupta Dr V K Gupta Dr V K Gupta Dr V K Gupta (Principal Scientist), Central Potato Research Institute, Regional Station, Modipuram, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh. E-mail: vijaigupt@gmail.com Attention authors and contributors of Indian Horticulture To maintain high quality of presentation, designing and print quality of the Indian Horticulture, you are requested to provide:  Good quailty photographs of your work/article in original form, i.e. high resolution jpeg files or bromides only.  Please provide photographs in its original form, i.e. high resolution jpeg files without any effects/ enhancements/alterations at your end.  No PDF files of photographs and No internet pictures please.  The text of articles with photographs and captions may also be provided in the MS Word for reference purpose. Good quality photographs provided in the form of high resolution jpeg files have bearing in the selection of articles for Indian Horticulture, your cooperation in this regard will be appreciated. – Editor November–December 2019 15 P OTATO, being vegetatively propagated crop, is highly amenable to asexual clonal propagation techniques in vitro and consequently genetic engineering. Although, the crop has been a real challenge, genetic studies using molecular markers owing to tetraploidy with tetrasomic inheritance, molecular mapping and functional genomics studies have made a large progress in recent years after the genome sequencing of potato after 2011.