 Š Š IARI seeds may be made available through KVK. Š Š Organic farming, dairy, nursery raising etc. are very profitable enterprises in Delhi, and thus farmers may be given opportunity through capacity building and other facilitation to practice them. Agriculture in Delhi is pre-dominated by the characteristics of urban and peri-urban agriculture. Produce from urban and peri urban areas enhances the remuneration of poor farmers and access of poor urban consumers to food, the structure and conduct of marketing system and its functionaries affect both considerably. Field studies have been carried out in the main vegetable markets to identify the major stakeholders in the trading systems of urban and peri urban agricultural produce, the marketing strategies and channels and the value and price addition taking place. It was found that different prices are charged for products with similar characteristics, and in the same location different market functionaries charge varied prices to consumers in the same location. In addition, in the same location prices fluctuate during the course of a day, with lower prices later in the day. The farmer may take advantage of such variations and SMS service in real time can be initiated. Issues Emerging in urban and peri-urban agriculture Š Š The low availability and high cost of land in urban / peri-urban areas may not encourage urban and peri-urban agriculture (UPA). State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 116 Š Š Large water requirement for crop production is another major hurdle for urban agriculture. Cities in India are struggling to meet the fresh water requirements of its residents for human needs. Š Š The use of waste water for irrigation without careful treatment and monitoring can result in the spread of diseases. Š Š Use of untreated animal or human wastes in aquaculture ponds to increase fish production also puts both human and animal at risk. Š Š Improper and excessive use of pesticides and fertilizers in farming can pollute the soil and water in urban areas. Š Š Levels of pollution in cities are higher than in rural areas in the soil, water and air. Emissions from factories and automobiles lead to the presence of heavy metals and other toxic chemicals in water, soil and air while untreated and partially treated sewage lead to the presence of pathogens. This exposes the people who work in the urban farms and to a lesser extent the consumers of the produce to health risks. Suitable checks and precautions need to be exercised to prevent diseases triggered or produced by these pollutants. Besides, cultivation on contaminated land also represents a health hazard for the consumers. Pesticide residue in the urban and peri-urban horticulture may become high, besides polluted water with heavy metals and cleaning vegetables in water contaminated with bacteria and viruses after harvesting is also an issue.