 Outcome With the intervention of ICAR-CIPHET, Shri Paramjit Singh Khalsa has become a role model for other farmers who wish to increase their income through value-addition. This intervention increased his profit to ` 5,00,000/year, a 35-40% rise. According to Shri Khalsa, processing and value-addition have transformed the mindset of many farmers, encouraging them to explore processing options under his brand. After further training from the FFP team, he began on-farm processing of vegetables, producing around 120 quintals of various pickle varieties, which increased his profits by an additional 25%, contributing to income stability. Success Story ! Attention ! Want to try your hands at the ICAR textbooks released recently! No Worries! We got you covered. Now shop the latest textbook collection of ICAR online from the convenience of your home. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 46 October 2024 Integrated farming system approach for securing income and family nutrition Raghavendra K. J.1, Nisha Verma1, Poonam Kashyap1, A. K. Prusty1, Raghuveer Singh1, P. C. Jat1, Sunil Kumar1 and S. K. Dubey2* 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram, Uttar Pradesh 250 110 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 002 A selected cluster of villages in Muzaffarnagar, Western Uttar Pradesh, was chosen to demonstrate improved technologies through an Integrated Farming System (IFS) approach to enhance farmers' livelihoods. Technological interventions in crops, livestock, and other enterprises were demonstrated alongside capacity-building efforts for selected farmers. By implementing intercrops such as mustard, black gram, and green gram in sugarcane, farmers increased their net income through diversified land use. Mustard and sugarcane yields improved by 22.4% and 10.8%, respectively, over traditional practices. Similarly, cow milk yield saw an 8.5% increase. A multitier horticulture- based IFS led to a 136% increase in net income over the benchmark, while a secondary agriculture module added approximately `206,650 in earnings for the Self Help Group (SHG). Keywords: Farm livelihood, Farmer FIRST, Farming system, Yield enhancement T HE Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) focuses on supporting smallholder agriculture by addressing complex challenges through interface meetings and the demonstration of proven agricultural practices. A project was implemented across eight villages in Muzaffarnagar district, led by the ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming Systems Research, Modipuram, to enhance farmers’ livelihoods. In this region, where over 80% of the area is under sugarcane cultivation, issues like excessive fertilizer and pesticide use as well as improper irrigation create sustainability concerns. Location- specific solutions are required to promote viable farming systems that ensure sustainable resource use, balanced food supplies, and improved farm income.