 Information, Communication and Publicity Services 140 14. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development 143 15. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions 152 16. Organization and Management 160 17. Partnership and Linkages 166 18. Supporting Basic and Strategic Research 174 19. Training and Capacity Building 184 Appendices 1. Activity Programme Classification 189 (Budget estimates and revised estimates of DARE and ICAR) 2. Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society 193 3. Members of the Governing Body of the ICAR Society 200 4. Senior Officers at the Headquarters of the ICAR 202 5. ICAR Institutes and their Directors 204 6. National Bureaux and their Directors 207 7. Project Directorates, ATARI and their Directors 208 8. National Research Centres and their Directors 209 9. All-India Coordinated Research Projects and Network Programmes 210 10. Agricultural Universities 211 11. Total Number of Employees in the ICAR and its Research Institutes 212 and Number of SC, ST and Other Backward Classes 12. ICAR Awards 213 Acronyms 221 Index 224  The Mandate of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research  Plan, Undertake, Coordinate and Promote Research and Technology Development for Sustainable Agriculture.  Aid, Impart and Coordinate Agricultural Education to enable Quality Human Resource Development.  Frontline Extension for Technology Application, Adoption, Knowledge Management and Capacity Development for Agri-based Rural Development.  Policy, Cooperation and Consultancy in Agricultural Research, Education and Extension. The Vice President of India, Shri M. Venkaiah Naidu accompanied by Shri Muttamsetti Srinivasa Rao, Minister for Tourism, Culture and Youth Advancement, Government of Andhra Pradesh visited the Visakhapatnam Research Centre of ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Cochin, Kerala on 7 December, 2020. Shri Naidu stressed on the role of Indian fisheries, the most flourishing and enterprising sector as one of the major contributors to the food and nutritional security. He emphasized on the health benefits of fish consumption as an affordable and easy source of animal protein for combating the malnutrition status of the country. He also urged the scientists for understanding and exploring the need-based research issues for the well-being of the large scale fishers and undertaking the innovative and modern research as a future agenda. Vice President of India visits ICAR-CIFT, Vizag Research Centre Soil and water productivity: Climate change and resilient agriculture: Pseudomonas putida Bacillus subtilis Pseudomonas putida Bacillus amyloliquefaciens Genetic resources: ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 2 OVERVIEW strengthened with fibroblast cell line from Jaisalmeri and Bikaneri camel, Halari donkey and Zanskari horse with at least five samples from each. A new freshwater fish species, Barilius torsai from Torsa river, Brahmaputra drainage was identified.