 Indian Farming 29 August 2023 Multifunctional agroforestry: A new game-changer for attaining food security and environmental sustainability Keerthika A*, K T Parthiban, I Sekar, S Revathy, S B Chavan and M B Noor Mohamed ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Regional Research Station, Pali Marwar, Rajasthan 306 401 Agroforestry has witnessed challenges and changes every decade in the form of technology and marketing interventions. Although agroforestry is promoted for meeting food and nutritional security, it has become the need of the hour to promote multifunctional agroforestry with the main focus on small-scale farmers to provide income throughout the year. Keeping this in mind, a new circular-shaped multifunctional agroforestry was designed at Forest College and Research Institute, Mettupalayam, Tamil Nadu on 0.75 acres incorporating 25 tree species and 08 intercrops mainly to quantify ecosystem services, viz. provisioning services, regulating services, supporting services, and cultural services. In most of the agroforestry systems, the realistic values of supporting and cultural services are sidelined due to the utmost importance given to provisioning services. Therefore, this study has quantified ecosystem services and determined the holistic monetary value of multifunctional agroforestry for three years (2018–2021) as `374211.42. Keywords: Family farming, Multifunctional agroforestry, Sustainability A groforestry is a prominent land-use strategy promoted for environmental, economic, and social benefits. It has always been in the limelight for its potential to provide food and nutritional security, reduce poverty and hunger, increase water quality, improve biodiversity, enhance soil health, and help address climate change issues. These benefits have been identified as a universal action in the UN 2030 sustainable development goals (SDGs). Out of 17 SDGs, 9 goals have been identified as potential options for which agroforestry- based ecosystem services are the major solution. However, since the inception of agroforestry, organized research has been focused on conventional Silvi-agri, Silvi- pasture, Silvi-horti systems, etc. It has also been noticed that, over the years, the importance of the study of indigenous agroforestry systems (AFS) like home gardens, shifting cultivation and taungya, khejri based agroforestry and alder based Indian Farming 73 (08): 29-32; August 2023 systems which evolved without much intervention have also been side-lined. New concepts such as integrated farming systems, and urban and peri-urban agroforestry have emerged. In line with the newly emerged agroforestry systems, multifunctional agroforestry has gained significant attraction, especially in terms of multifaceted benefits, viz. wood or timber, fodder, vegetables, flowers, fruits, medicinal plants, etc. Multifunctionality in agroforestry The term multifunctionality was first introduced at Rio Earth Summit, in 1992.