 Patil, the President Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA) made a brief presentation on the activities of the IAUA and appreciated ICAR for its role to the cause of agricultural education. He underscored the need for short-term training for university teachers at NAARM, Hyderabad. Mr. P.K. Mishra, Secretary, Department of Agriculture & Cooperation in his address emphasized the need for reorientation in approaches by AUs to meet present challenges, technical backstopping by AUs for RKVY and the renewed efforts on agricultural extension. Dr. Mangala Rai, Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR, in his address, stressed the importance of the VC conference and said that this forum has continually served the cause of the ICAR-AU System of higher agricultural education in an effective partnership mode. He appreciated that AUs are imparting education in 11 faculties and providing master degree in 95 subjects and doctorate in 80 subjects. He called for reducing the inbreeding depression both at faculty and student levels. He said that very good progress has been made in the field of gender equity in Agriculture Education as some universities showed more than 50% girl students and the average girl student in AUs is around 35%. Dr. Rai also informed the august gathering that nearly 58% of the ICAR budget is going to SAUs. He stated that a significant increase in the education budget is slated in 11th five-year plan. He wanted long-term goals to be set as gestation period in agriculture research is a long one. Nevertheless, the investment in education would always remain to be the best investment. The DG Stated that this year’s VCs conference assumes a special significance as it coincides with the launch of the XIth five-year plan. He exhorted that AUs should provide technological backstopping to all KVKs, including those outside the control of the AUs, to make district-level development possible. He also suggested that AUs should take advantage and provide technical backstopping for the two major initiatives taken by the Ministry of Agriculture viz., Food Security Mission and the Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY). Union Minister of Agriculture Sri Sharad Pawar urged the congregated Vice-Chancellors to bring strategic transformation in agricultural research, education and development systems for an accelerated and inclusive growth in agriculture. He said that the 5 agricultural universities should take advantage and provide technical backstopping for Food Security Mission and Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojna. He desired that there should be periodic revamping of agricultural education to continuously improve its content and quality, to maintain its relevance, and further stressed that the need is to reorient courses for students and provide real-life project situations. The youth should posses the required skills in tune with contemporary and futuristic needs of job markets and also for self- employment.