 Adi is one of the major tribes and consists of 14 sub-tribes, namely Ashing, Bori, Bokar, Karko, Komkar, Minyong, Millang, Pasi, Padam, Panggi, Pailibo, Ramo, Shimong and Tangam. The Adi language spoken by the people belongs to Tibeto-Burman language family. Adi people celebrate different festivals which are essential parts of their socio-cultural life. Festivals reflect the traditions, costumes and life style of the people. The festivals are mainly celebrated for feasts, good harvest of crop, merriment and for narrating the myths, legends, folklores and mythologies. The Adi people have the tradition of eating raw leaves, young inflorescences, tender stalks and other palnt parts as vegetable in their diet since time immemorial. These plants are thought of having medicinal properties. Raw plant parts are used with their indigenous preparation along with meat and fish. This tradition of eating raw plant parts is handed down from genertaion to generation and belived that they get direct medicinal benefit by this way of eating. Besides the parts used in raw form of eating, other parts are also used in cooking. These plants are used as medicine in other forms such as juice, supernatant, after boiling, crushing, direct application, etc. Plants are used as medicine from time immemorial; as many as 1,200 plants are mentioned in ancient text. The present survey was carried out at College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh. The different species of plants were found to be used by the Adi people as vegetable (Table 1). Plants belonging to different families were used as raw or in cooked form. Solanaceae and rubiaceae is found to be most widely used family followed by asteraceae, piperaceae, zingiberaceae, actinidiaceae, apiaceae, lamiaceae, and caryophyllaceae. They used various parts of the plants such as leaves, young inflorescence, tender stalks, tuber, fruits and other palnts parts in this mode of eating. The belief behind this mode of eating is that it is good for health and acts as a remedy for various ailments. This could be attributed due to the presence of phytochemical composition in these plants that enhance the power of immunity of human body. Raw plant foods are considered to be rich in nutrition composition and energy; and low in calories. These are further rich in various vitamins like, vitamin C, vitamin A, vitamin B, vitamin E, carotenoids, folate as well as various minerals like calcium, magnesium, selenium, phosphorus, zink, boron, fiber, etc. Further proper documentation and domestication is needed to assess the scientific and medicinal properties of these plants. It may be hypothesized that the longevity May–June 2021 19 Table 1.