 He also appreciated the fact that the Agri-Leadership provided by Shri Sharad Pawar and his unflinching support for the cause made the growth rate of 4.6 % in agriculture a reality. Chief Minister of Maharashtra, Shri Prithviraj Chavan in his address expressed confidence that country can handle the challenge of food security due to the efforts of the agriculturists. He also added that adverse effects of the climate change is the issue demanding immediate attention. He released two publications, viz. Souvenir-“Towards climate resilient agriculture-KVKs experiences from Maharashtra” and “Transforming agriculture transforming India-A compilation of speeches delivered by Hon’ble Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister of Agriculture & Food Processing (in three volumes)” and presented these to the Hon’ble President of India. Union Minister of Agriculture, Shri Sharad Pawar, reflected that Council is bringing about major changes in the lives of Farmers by reaching out to them through its innovations. The only solution to shrinking land resources was to increase productivity, he said. The necessity to create an environment of academic excellence to develop globally competent infrastructure, and technology generation, dissemination and human capacity building was also stressed. The role of ICAR in imparting higher agricultural education was appreciated, and he also thanked the farmers, scientists, faculties, students, service providers and institutions for their significant role in national food security. The impact of technologies generated by the by agriculture scientists was also appreciated. Shri Pranab Mukherjee, Hon’ble President of India inaugurated a three-day Conference of Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and ICAR Directors, and appreciated the efforts of ICAR and scientists to organise a meeting of this kind and ushering in commendable changes in the field of agriculture which forms the backbone of the Indian economy. He lauded the efforts of agriculturists which led the country to one of the major exporters of food grains, sugar and cotton. He appreciated the support provided by Union Agriculture Minister for over a decade which led the country to self -sufficiency in food. He said that major challenge was to increase productivity and desired targets can be achieved only with inclusion of modern technology and emphasized the need for newer technologies to harness the unproductive, salt affected, 25 waterlogged or acidic soils in the country. He also said that ICAR has to now focus on emerging issues like: climate change, host-parasite complexes, concern of bio-safety, restriction trait regimes, competitiveness of the farm produce, improvement in the farms income, sift in the consumption pattern toward processed food and increased demand for food items of animal origin. He suggested to the scientists and our farmers’ community to convert these challenges into opportunities.