 I am happy to know that ICAR has compiled the Mobile Apps developed by NARES on crops, horticulture, fisheries, animal sciences, weather, marketing etc. and brought out a publication for the benefit of farmers, extension workers and policy makers. I am confident that this publication will be extremely useful in developing capacity of farming communities, agripreneurs, development personnel and others who are engaged in agriculture and allied activities. Dated: 10 July 2018 (Gajendra Singh Shekhawat) F OR bridging information gap between the farmers and R&D institutions and for building productive and competitive market, the use of different ICT interventions has become indispensable. Agricultural extension especially the frontline extension model pursued by ICAR institutes, SAUs and KVKs need a cost-effective outreach with clientele specific solutions to the information needs of farmers. The mobile technologies have emerged as new channels for easier and faster communication. As farming in the current context has not remained linear, it requires constant interventions at every stage where new technological inputs may provide better outputs. It implies that, production depends on weather, practices and management of externalities at right time for better results. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has marched forward in this direction so as to disseminate the appropriate technologies to a large section of farmers who were hitherto unreached using the conventional model of information delivery. The application of Mobile Apps developed by ICAR institutes and KVKs shall have long lasting implications for farmers in making their farming more efficient and augmenting their farm income. I congratulate the Agricultural Extension Division, and other Divisions/ Institutions for taking initiative to compile Mobile Apps related valuable information and bringing out the document which shall be extremely useful to the farmers, development personnel, agripreneurs and others who are engaged in farming. FOREWORD (T. Mohapatra) Dated: 10 July 2018  T HE diverse agro-ecological, socio-economic and cultural conditions of the Indian farmers call for different extension approaches. Looking into large number of farmers and regularly use of mobile phones, the Government of India emphasizes upon harness opportunities offered by ICT for efficient and speedy transfer of technologies to the end users. The KVKs/ICAR institutes and State Agricultural Universities have developed a number of mobile applications in English and vernacular languages on agriculture and allied sectors for the benefit of farmers and other stakeholders. Most of the Apps developed are android based being aligned with the mobile phones. These Apps provide valuable information on latest package of practices, weather, market, services available, schemes of government of India, advisory, etc for different agro-climatic zones of the country.