 While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. Indian Horticulture 24 G INGER (Zingiber officinale Rosc.) and turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) are important spices and medicinally useful herbs, essential for day-to-day use in every home and cultivated almost in every state. Their propagation is through seed rhizomes that may harbour pests and disease-causing pathogens, which in turn affect crop establishment, growth and yield. Hence, use of good quality disease free seed rhizomes plays an important role in successful ginger and turmeric production. There is no seed set in ginger while turmeric sets seed rarely. The crop improvement of these two crops is done by clonal selection, mutation breeding, induction of polyploidy and other biotechnological tools. The plantlets of ginger and turmeric that are regenerated by micro propagation methods take longer time to produce normal size rhizome with good yield equal to conventional methods of propagation. Hence, a miniature form of rhizomes was induced in the regenerated plantlets of ginger and turmeric through micro-rhizome technology under aseptic conditions. These plantlets produced from micro-rhizomes are capable of giving yield as that of conventional method during first generation itself and also assure production of pathogen free planting materials in ginger and turmeric. Micro-rhizome production Micro-rhizomes of ginger and turmeric varieties were induced at Tissue Culture Lab of ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode by following the procedures discussed below. The source of explants and Micro-rhizomes technology for healthy planting material of ginger and turmeric This article describes the methodology for disease free planting material production in ginger and turmeric. The propagation of two important medicinal plants- ginger and turmeric is through rhizomes which may harbour pests and disease-causing pathogens that affect crop establishment, growth and yield. Hence, use of good quality disease free seed rhizomes plays an important role in successful ginger and turmeric production. In vitro micro-rhizome technology can contribute substantially in increasing ginger and turmeric production in the country.