 • Introduction of Castor as Sole Crop under Dryland Condition increased productivity from 4 q/ha to 10 q/ha. • Intercropping of Pearlmillet + Pigeonpea (2: 1) and Sunflower + pigeonpea was adopted by 62.5% and 65.27% farmers in Scarcity Zone of Maharashtra. • About 60% farmers adopted mustard through front line demonstrations in South‐Western Haryana. • As a sole contingent crop and intercrop in maize, cowpea as a promising contingent crop ‘SGL‐1’ for rainfed uplands of Orissa has become popular in North Eastern Ghat Zone of Orissa. Nutrient Management • In cotton growing black soils about 3000 ha were reclaimed Mg deficient calcareous vertisols of Southern Tamil Nadu • With soil testing in groundnut in the arid shallow alfisols of Anantapur district, a saving of around Rs.1.00 crores was worked to the farmers on cost of fertilizer with a yield advantage of 525 tones in the last triennium. Thus overall benefit was Rs.1.63 crores in this region. • A saving of Rs.427/ha on cost of fertilizer with a yield advantage of 47.4% was accrued with the inclusion of legume as green manure in mustard in semi‐arid soils of Agra region. • Farmers have adopted using azotobactor as seed inoculation in about 10 % area of pearlmillet in the Hisar region. • 25% of soybean cultivators adopted using gypsum in soybean in Indore region. Rain Water Management • Around 5 % farmers of the Agra region adopted deep tillage and compartmental bunding in semi‐arid inceptisols. • About 20 % of the area of Rakh Dhiansar region adopted the technology of efficient utilization of residual moisture. • Zingg Conservation bench terraces in deep black soils spread to an extent of 2.1 to 2.6 lakh ha (25 to 30 % of net crop area) of Bijapur and Bagalkot districts in Karnataka. • Compartment bunding in black soils was adopted in around 800 ha of area in Bijapur, Bagalkot and Raichur districts of Karnataka. • Gravel Sand Mulching in Sodic soils spread over an area of 25 to 30 thousand hectares in Koppal and Gadag districts in sodic soils of Karnataka • Pebble mulching in black soils was adopted in 1000 ha in Bijapur district, 600 ha in Ramdurg taluka of Belgaum district of Karnataka. • Recommendation of bunding was adopted by Govt. of Maharashtra and implemented with Government cost on wide scale in dryland area. Bunding program is still going on under Employment Guarantee Scheme hence there is 90 – 95 % adoption in rabi sorghum growing area. Recently, Govt. of Maharashtra also issued Government Resolution for in‐situ moisture conservation by compartment bunding on farmers field with Government cost under Employment Guarantee Scheme. • Straightening of gully and utilization of wastelands in Indore region brought about 0.88 ha area under cultivation, which allowed the farmers to grow crops on it. www.icar.org.