 The results of experimentation also substantiate these observations as none of the animals treated with suggested ITK herbs responded to the treatment within specified duration. Thus these findings (QUIK as well as experimentation) do not validate the claim of the discloser. REFRENCES Arthur, G.H., Noakes, D.E., Pearson, H. and Parkinson, T.J. 1996. Veterinary Reproduction and Obstetrics edn 7, pp. 294-295. W.B. Saunders Company Limited, London.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 61 Title of the ITK : Efficacy of parched chickpea flour in butter milk (rabadi) for expulsion of placenta in livestock Description of the ITK : If placenta is retained in the animals, chickpea is fried, and after decortication it is ground and baited in butter milk. It is fed twice daily for 2 days. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Hari Ram Kala, S/o Shri Chuna Ram, Village Balaya, P. Samiti Mundva, Nagaur (Rajasthan) Location of use of the ITK : Balaya, Panchayat Samiti Mundva, Nagaur (Rajasthan) Experimenters : Dr S. K. Kaushish, Head Division of Animal Science, and Shri Z. D. Kavia, Principal Scientist (Agricultural Extension), Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur (Rajasthan) METHODOLOGY The study was conducted in Balaya village and in Veterinary Hospital, Jodhpur. PRA and field study Information about the ITK was collected in Balaya village of Nagaur district in Rajasthan from animal keepers, approaching individually as well as in-group form, by adopting the PRA technique. A structured schedule was administered for the collection of information from the villagers about the ITK. Experiment Experiment was also conducted to evaluate the efficacy of using buttermilk (rabadi) for expulsion of placenta in village Balaya and Veterinary hospital at Jodhpur during October 2002 to May 2003. The treatment was applied in 7 animals (4 cows and 3 buffaloes). RESULT AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Villagers and the ITK discloser strengthened the information provided about ITK, which is as follows: About 1 kg huskless chickpea is parched and crushed to flour (Fig. 1). The flour is mixed gradually with butter milk while boiling (Fig. 2). Fig. 1. Parched huskless gram crushed to flour form Fig. 2. Powdered gram mixed gradually with butter  Name and address of the farmer ITK treatment provided to animals Time taken for expulsion of placenta Shri Nenu Ram Bishnoi, Ghachi Colony, Peeli Tanki, Bhagat ki Kothi, Jodhpur City Feeding of 250 g rabadi to cow. Placenta was expelled in 4 hours. Shri Om Prakash S/o Sh. Ram Dayal village Balaya, district Nagaur Rabadi (250 g) was prepared and was given to cow in morning and the same dose was repeated in evening Placenta was expelled in 24 hours Shri Golu near Polyclinic, Jodhpur City Rabadi (250 g) fed to cow After 12 hours no expulsion of placenta Shri Narayan Ram Mundel S/o Shri Prabhu Ram Mundel village Mundwa, P.O.