 The future of horticulture will be characterized by better and more sustainable farming systems that can respond to challenges and produce food in the future. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Shailendra Rajan (Ex Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author: srajanlko@gmail.com November–December 2024 77 Mobile applications for real time market information and decision support in horticultural crops The transformative impact of mobile applications on the horticultural sector, highlighting their role in providing real-time market information and decision support has been well established. With the increasing adoption of smartphones among farmers, mobile based applications have become essential tools for accessing vital data, including weather forecasts, market prices, and crop management practices. By bridging the information gap, mobile apps empower farmers to make informed decisions, enhance productivity, and optimize their operations. User-friendly design, offline functionality, and robust data security are essential features that enhance the accessibility and trustworthiness of these applications, especially for farmers in remote areas. Ultimately, the integration of mobile technology into horticulture represents a significant advancement towards sustainable agricultural practices and improved livelihoods for farmers worldwide. Technology Rajarshi Roy Burman*, Girijesh Singh Mahra and Sonali Mallick I N the recent years, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) has proved to be extremely beneficial for farmers and helped them in getting easy access to customized digital information regarding improved varieties, cropping pattern, use of high-yielding seeds, fertilizer application, pest management, marketing, entrepreneurship etc. Digitalization through ICT can have a leading role in the dissemination of right information to needful farmers at right time. There have been some successful initiatives in India, where digitalization of agricultural information was attempted. In most of these projects, agriculture is only a small component. India has gathered successful and enriching experiences with such IT projects like Gyandoot project (Madhya Pradesh), Warna Wired Village project (Maharashtra), Information Village project of the M.S. Swaminathan Research Foundation (MSSRF) (Puducherry), ITC e-Choupal, i-Kisan project of the Nagarjuna group of companies (Andhra Pradesh), Automated Milk Collection Centres of Amul Dairy Co-operatives (Gujarat), Land Record Computerization (Bhoomi) (Karnataka), Knowledge Network for Grass-root Innovations – Society for Research and Initiatives (SRISTI) (Gujarat), application of Satellite Communication for Training Field Extension Workers in Rural Areas (Indian Space Research Organisation). There has been paradigm shift in digitalization with advent of smart mobile phones.