1 lakh is to be constructed by the individuals Expected production (calculated based on 100% Bio-efficiency Giving allowance to risk of contamination and Quality of produce) is 250 Kg /Day/ cluster and expected income per person in the group per month: Rs. 16,000 25.3 SUMMARY AND RECOMMENDATIONS Innovations and human resources are the twin engines of agricultural growth and development. The way to double farmers’ income is possible only through more productive agricultural sectors by supporting the technologies with synergising policies and support from the govt. Agriculture is still the biggest employer and livelihood provider to the majority in the state. This sector therefore, offers considerable leverage over the growth of the economy as a whole and its development not only provides cheaper food for both urban and rural population, but it also generates employment, raises the income of poor people, creates a demand for other non government goods and services. Further it also saves our foreign exchange and encourages our international trade. The five related challenges of food production, malnutrition, poverty, population growth and environment are more acute now and through its cutting edge technologies and extension programmes The nexus between these five elements that challenges the development. Poverty limits the opportunities for protecting and enhancing the environment because we are left out with few options but to exploit the natural resources base in order to attain food security. A more productive agriculture also means more food at lower prices. These lower prices facilitate the complex interaction’s that promote an inclusive economic growth. Research generate agricultural technologies and innovations that increase productivity and incomes while conserving natural resources for sustainability as the nucleus of the whole development process. The complexity of the challenges requires greater resources for research and committed team of scientists and extension work force. Climate Resilient Agriculture, GIS based soil fertility maps, using soil test data, to improve the soil and water productivity through location specific nutrient and resource management are key requirements.. Understanding of farming systems and the farmers resources is very much important to design and develop technologies that are acceptable and appropriate for the resource poor farmers. Realising the importance of farming system approach the plan has laid due emphasis on farming 533 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 system mode development by developing a decision support system tool (DST) to facilitate farmers in deciding the profitable components for farming system. In addition, district wise extension and development strategies for the state based on the detailed analysis of prevailing farming system prevailing in all the agro climatic conditions have been formulated.