 Characters on which data should be recorded in the IVT (i) Yield of green leaf, cured leaf, bright leaf, grade index (ii) Reaction to diseases and insect-pests: Damping-off, TMV, TLCV, black- shank, spot- and stem- borer, budworm, aphids and caterpillars (iii) Reaction to root-knot nematode and incidence of Orobanche 3.Characters on which data should be recorded in the AVT-I (i) Yield of green, cured, bright leaf and grade index (in all the centres) 76 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (ii) Reaction to diseases and insect-pests as mentioned under 2 above (in all the centres) (iii) Assessment of cured leaf (in all the centres) (iv) Reaction to root-knot nematode incidence (at the selected centres) (v) Tolerance to abiotic stress (at the selected centres) (vi) Response to inputs (at the selected centres) (vii) Physical and chemical quality characters and PMI (at the selected centres) 4.Characters/variables on which data should be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) (i) Agronomy: Spacing, fertilizer dose and level of topping (ii) Physiological parameters depending on the agroclimatic zones (iii) Rigorous testing against diseases and pests, mentioned earlier under artificial inoculation or specific locations/hot-spot areas (iv) Tolerance to abiotic stresses under controlled conditions for drought and wet-foot (v) Quality: Chemical and physical quality characters as specified under the G; as well as physical assessment of leaf/trade assessment (vi) Processing quality: Manufacturing tests, smoke tests and colour retention studies by trade 5. Plot size, spacing and number of replications (i) IVT 80 cm × 60 cm with 60 plants per plot, 4 replications (ii) AVT-I 80 cm × 60 cm with 60 plants per plot, 4 replications (iii) AVT-II 80 cm × 60 cm with 60 plants per plot, 4 replications Minimum plot size and number of replications essential for detecting 5-10% yield difference among the test entries Minimum plot size: 3.20 m × 4.20 m Minimum number of replications :3 6. Agroclimatic zones The following zones are broadly based on soil and climatic characteristics and experience of the earlier trials during several years. Zone Geographic area States/districts 1. Traditional Black Soils East Godavari, West Godavari, Guntur, (TBS) (Fey, Natu, Lanka) Kharnmam district of Andhra Pradesh 2. Northern Light Soils (NLS) Specified sandy soil areas of East and West (Fey, Natu) Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh 3. Southern Light Soils (SLS) Prakasarn district of Andhra Pradesh and Nellore (Fey) 4. Karanataka Light Soils Hunsur, Periapatna, Ramnathpuram,Shimoga (KLS) (Fey) areas of Karnataka 5. Bihar 6. West Bengal 7. Tamil Nadu 7. Status of hybrid varieties Separate trials for hybrids are to be conducted. 77 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 8. Description of morphological features Minimum traits required for distinctness, uniformity and stability of a variety may be decided by the workshop (Annexure-VII). 9.