 Skills: Change in the actual ability to do something usually requires practice with feedback about the success or failure of the practice. Hands on experience reinforced by video or audio tape recording and playback, intermittent process analysis, use of group actions, coaching, interactive demonstrations, etc are helpful for improving skill of trainees. Attitude: For attitude change, appropriate small, informal, open ended discussion groups may be effective in training sessions To the degrees that these discussion groups are important or valuable to the participants, attitude changes are more likely to be lasting. Other training methods that are helpful for bringing about attitude change include interview situation in which one participant 123 Scientific and Technical listens carefully to another’s descriptions of their attitudes and problems, and role-playing. Role- playing can be especially helpful in attitude change because the learner actually experience the new attitudes, feels little threat, and is supported by other members of the training group. Experiential learning cycle Trainees acquire new learning more effectively by doing or acting than sitting as passive listeners. It has four steps, which are as follows: Step 1: Experience: Experiential learning cycle starts with some kind of experience in the form of a lecture, method demonstration, role playing, etc. which has been planned by the trainers. Step 2: Processing: Doing something alone will not produce lasting changes in the trainees. Therefore, involving all the trainees for sharing their individual experiences and their reactions to the experience will reflect on what happened, what they liked or not liked about the experience and what was easy or difficult. The trainer guides the processing of information. Step 3: Generalization: General conclusions are drawn from the experience. Here, trainer moves the discussion away from the immediate experience relating to the experiences of everyday life. Trainees seek to identify key generalization that could be derived from the experience provided. Step 4: Application: General learning has to find application on the farmers’ fields. Trainer helps the farmers think about what they are going to do after the session is over. They answer the questions, “now what?” and “How can I use what I learned?” This stage focuses on specific actions back on the farm; it helps the farmers plan for the application for new skills or practices. Effectiveness of training Training effectiveness depends not only on what happens during training, but also on what happens before the actual training and what happens after the training has formally ended. Evaluation should, therefore, be done of both the pre-training and post-training work. Pre-training: This is being conducted before the commencement of the training programme to modify the course content according to the felt needs and expectations of the target trainees.