 Farmers often fail to consider the suitability of a site for a particular crop, leading to the planting of crops in unsuitable areas that resulted in the loss of productivity [9]. Hence, there is a need for an effective and highly precise system to suggest which crops to plant. The utilization of advanced technologies or automated farming techniques can be beneficial in addressing concerns related to envi­ ronmental sustainability, soil optimization, and the collection and analysis of multiple heterogeneous variables. The potential to enhance crop cultivation methods based on available resources, adaptability to specific environments, and increased productivity is a significant area of interest. Having an accurate and efficient approach to crop management is essential in guaranteeing sustainable production and food security. In recent years, there has been significant growth in predicting crop yields [13–17], identifying crop types [18,19], crop diseases identification [10,20–24], crop health assessment [25–27] through the application of ML and deep convolutional neural networks. An intelligent system called AgroConsultant was created by Doshi [28] to help farmers make informed decisions about which crop to cultivate based on their current environmental conditions such as soil type, thickness, pH, rainfall, and temperature. Waikar [29] used various ML algorithms such as Support vector machine (SVM), AdaBoost, Bagged tree, Artificial neural network (ANN), and Naïve Bayes to forecast crop yield based on soil types, soil properties and rainfall. Supervised ML algorithms, such as RF and SVM, were employed by Dubois [30] to develop models for predicting soil water potential in potato farming. Likewise ML algorithms were used by Ahmed and Hossain [31] to forecast wheat yield and multilayer perceptron (MLP), decision table, JRip algorithms (IoT framework) were employed by Guti´errez [32] to suggest crop strategies techniques. Rajak [33] also used a soil database collected from farms and a dataset from a soil testing laboratory to recommend a crop based on site-specific parameters using SVM and ANN as machine learning models. The recent suggest that the advanced development of ML approaches can easily handle big data and precisely predict several cropping strategies, reducing the driving force of food security. Recent studies suggest that the advanced development of machine learning techniques is necessary to effectively manage large amounts of data and precisely predict various agricultural methods. Despite the progress in the ML in predicting cropping strategies in smart farming, there are some pitfalls in model training of the data where necessary parameters were not taken into consideration. In previous studies [28,34–36], recommendations for crop se­ lection have often utilized a combination of horticultural and agricultural crops for training models, rather than focusing solely on individual crop categories.