 simple smoking on hay, smoking on hay after soaking in jalebi colour, smoking on hay after soaking in a mixture of lime juice, jalebi colour and water, and keeping in ice, were subjected to matrix ranking by the fishermen through PRA. The selected 25 key informants were asked to score the practice by putting stone pieces out of 10 on 14 criteria. The criteria on which matrix scoring was done were duration of preservation, taste, colour, shining, marketability, easiness in processing, time in processing, input  FISHERIES availability, cost in processing, variability in species in processing, gender specification in processing, transportability, profitability and use of labour. The matrix scores were subjected to ANOVA for each criterin. Experiment Field study on the efficacy of the ITK was judged through four experiments conducted in four villages (Kunderkhera, Gosalpur Katchpera and Budakhera), one experiment in each village. The fish were processed through the ITK and were kept under normal temperature for 24 hours. Unprocessed fish were also kept under the same conditions as control sample. Observations were made at every 6 hours with the help of experienced judges from the villages. Six judges were selected who used to sell their fish in market and have sufficient knowledge in respect of judging the fish quality, marketability, consumability and the market rates. They were asked to assign the score out of 10 for the processed and unprocessed fish on 6 hourly intervals. The average scores were calculated and analysed. The same experiment was also conducted in two villages viz. Shahwajpur and Baghwala, in Badaun district of Uttar Pradesh, where fisheries is adopted as an enterprise. The results were analysed and compared with those obtained in the villages of Jabalpur district. Laboratory analysis were conducted at Veterinary college, Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Jabalpur and Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. Proximate analysis of processed fish adopting ITK was done for two species of fish, viz. darhee (Pentius sophore) and patola (Notopterus notopterus). Proximate analysis of unprocessed fish of darhee was also done. The results of analysis in respect of dry matter, crude protein, ether extract, calcium and phosphorus were obtained at an interval of 12 and 24 hours. Microbial analysis was done for four species of fish, viz. darhee (Puntius sophore), singhi (H. fossile), patola (N. notopterus) and murrela (Basilius bola). The analysis was done after 24 hours for both processed and unprocessed fish in respect of TVC, S. aureus, Lactose fermenter, Salmonella and Aeromonas. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Observations made during pilot study in the area indicated that the fishermen are using this ITK, as it is not possible for them to sell the fish on the same day of fishing. Further, at present they are not following exactly the same practice as has been reported by disclosers.