 12 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS (iv) A genotype possessing a special crucial feature, which is not available in the existing varieties, and which has wider implication on agricultural exports/processing industries. e. Availability of Test Stock and Nucleus Seed Test stock seed (pure high quality seed produced by the concerned breeder/institute) for sowing in five hectares for seed production/demonstrations/adaptive trials and nucleus seed for 0.50 hectare (except sugarcane) must be available at the time of making of proposal for identification (for hilly regions and restrictive environments , above requirements can be suitably reduced). f. Molecular Fingerprinting of Identified Variety DNA profile or DNA fingerprinting of the variety, parental lines and the hybrid along with the details of the molecular markers (where markers data-base is available in public domain) used may be generated after the identification of a particular variety before submission of release and notification proposal. g. Variety Release and Notification Central release: Once the variety/hybrid has been identified, seeds of variety/hybrid/parental lines are to be deposited with the NBPGR for conservation in the gene bank. After obtaining the Flow chart for development, evaluation and release of crop cultivars through the AICCIP 13 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS acknowledgment with IC No. from the NBPGR, the release and notification proposal of the variety/ hybrid needs to be submitted to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties along with DNA fingerprinting data (wherever available) and good photographs of seed, single plant and of field view (Annexure-III). State release: Genotypes tested in the AICCIP trials for at least one year or those which could not be identified on the zonal basis in the workshop but adequate information on disease and insect- pests reactions of them are available from the coordinated testing, can be proposed for identification for the concerned state after further yield evaluation trials with more number of sites within the state and with the on-farm demonstrations. The variety has to be first cleared by the Institutional Variety Identification Committee of the concerned organization and then proposed to the State Seed Sub-Committee for release. Once the variety is released by the State Seed Sub-Committee, proposal is required to be submitted to the Central Sub-Committee on Crop Standards, Notification and Release of Varieties for its notification (Annexure-III). II. Cross-pollinated crops A. General Guidelines The guidelines/stipulations for evaluation of varieties, hybrids, composites and synthetics as well as identification for release in the cross-pollinated crops shall remain the same as in the case of self- pollinated crops, except for the following. B.