 • Germplasm registered at NBPGR:36 • Precision nutrient management in maize system: The layering of CA-based management practices with precision nutrient prescriptions using SSNM based decision support tools offers a new management paradigm for scaling up of the MWMb system in north-west India. • Technology for the management of fall armyworm in maize 27 Crop Science 27 • Commercialization of technologies: 8 technologies including seven maize hybrids and one Dynamic Volatile Collection System were commercialized and a total of Rs 53.867 lakh revenue generated. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • 12 hybrids developed and released for commercial cultivation are available for commercialization for different stakeholders. • Four technologies viz., (i) Insect Handling Device, (ii) Insect Rearing Cage and (iii) Dynamic volatile collection system and (iv) A rapid protocol for differentiation of Quality Protein Maize from normal maize are available for commercialization. Three bio fortified maize varieties LQMH 1, IQMH 202 and IQMH 203 dedicated to Nation by Hon’ble PM The Insect Rearing Cage (Patent No. 311890) 28 ICAR Institutes Profile 28 ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kalyanpur, Kanpur-208024 (U.P.), India ii. Name of the Director: Dr.Bansa Singh iii. E-mail Address/phone: director.iipr@icar.gov.in, diriipr.icar@gmail.com 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research on pulses to improve productivity and quality. • Provide equitable access to information, knowledge and genetic material to develop improved technology and enhanced pulse production. • Planning, coordination and monitoring of applied research on national and regional issues through All India Coordinated Research Project. • Dissemination of technology and capacity building. Activities • Genetic enhancement for yield, adaptation, and quality; and seed delivery system research of different pulse crops • Accelerating genetic gain and trait discovery through pre-breeding, new breeding tools and biotechnology • Development of climate smart agro-technologies for diversified agro-ecological regions • Crop health management for resilience to global climate change • Physio-chemical intervention for nutrient amelioration, post-harvest management, bio- fortification and value addition • Innovative extension research, socio-economic impact, market, gender, youth and IT-enabled data management for policy research 3. Salient Achievements  Development of new high yielding and multiple stress resistant varieties: 63 varieties of pulse crops have been released and notified in different pulse crops.