 About 37% increase in nut yield was observed in the palms. The liquid nutrient formulation Akra Sasya Poshak Ras, a unique balanced blend of the macro and micronutrients was developed. This formulation is suitable for commonly grown vegetables. Integrated management schedule for stem-borer (Dervishiya cadambas) in grapes was standardized which comprised removal of loose bark from main trunk and cordons during July–August and washing (2 ml/l water) them with Metarhizium brunneum (5×108 spores/ml) @ 1.5 to 2 litre formulation/plant. The resistance in different I pomoea sp. (I. palmata, I. triloba, I. mauritiana, and I. obscura) against sweet potato weevil was studied by choice assay test. The Arka Viral Kit is based on Loop-mediated Isothernal Amplification (LAMP) to diagnose Tomato Leaf curl Bangalore virus (ToLCBV). It is user friendly, as the testing can be done in a water bath or dry bath, and cost- effective compared to other PCR based diagnostic kits. Livestock management: Feeding of maize sprouts with straw bedding to crossbred dairy cows during early to mid- lactation in addition to the existing feeding practice increased milk yield and milk fat and SNF. The body weight gain and feed efficiency improved, and stress indices reduced in broiler chicken with supplementation of methyl donors like betaine, B12, folic acid or biotin having no supplemental methinonine. Different bajra cultivars could totally replace maize in the diet of broiler chicken. Embryo transfer technology (ETT) was initiated in Kankrej cattle for faster multiplication of superior germplasm. Out of seven embryos retrieved from two cows, five good-quality embryos were transferred into four recipients, Established one OPU-IVF pregnancy of Sahiwal cow. Multiplication of elite buffaloes by cloning and ovum pick up technique was achieved, five pregnancies from embryos in buffalo; six calves born through AI using semen of cloned bulls and seven pregnancies through AI from semen of cloned bulls are ongoing. Buffalo pregnancy diagnosis kit Preg-D was developed. The Preg-D kit is the prototype of a urine based novel technique for pregnancy diagnosis in dairy animals. Buffalo Saliva Scope, an estrus identification kit was developed. An alternative package of practices of mithun rearing under a semi-intensive rearing was developed. Under this system, the mithuns can be monitored by the owner regularly for growth, reproduction, health care, and breeding. Nine units of this system were established benefitting 334 mithun farmers. The National Animal Disease Referall Expert System v2 (NADRESv2), a dynamic geographic information and remote sensing-enabled expert system, developed and maintained by ICAR-NIVEDI was updated with 3,262 district wise livestock disease outbreaks data from November 2020 to September 2021.