 Furthermore, the Pusa mKRISHI mobile advisory system exemplifies the importance of personalized, two-way communication in addressing farmers’ specific needs, enhancing decision- making and resilience. Collectively, these initiatives demonstrate how digitalization in horticulture is paving the way for sustainable farming and increased profitability for small-scale farmers. Technology R. N. Padaria*, Sweety Mukherjee, Bhaskar Ghosh, K. Shravani, Sujit Sarkar, Anamika Sharma, Bharat Singh and Gaurav Papnai H ORTICULTURE, encompassing the cultivation of fruits, vegetables, flowers, and other plants, is vital for global food security and agricultural economies. As the demand for sustainable farming increases, the horticulture sector is embracing digital transformation. Technologies like artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning, drones, IoT (Internet of Things), and mobile apps are becoming essential to modern farming. These tools allow farmers to monitor, manage, and optimize production with enhanced precision. Through digital solutions, farmers can access data-driven insights to tackle climate variability, manage pests, optimize resources, and improve crop quality. Real- time monitoring and predictive analysis also aid in reducing crop losses and boosting productivity. In India, horticulture significantly contributes to the economy, accounting for 33% of agriculture’s Gross Value Added (GVA), producing around 355.25 million tonnes of horticultural produce (2023-2024 estimates). The country’s digital agriculture and horticulture strategies focus on four key goals: expanding information access, optimizing resource use, strengthening market linkages, and empowering farmers through digital education and training. Digital technologies are driving a shift towards precision farming, data-informed decision-making, and better market connections. Innovations such as remote sensing, satellite imagery, IoT devices, drones, and digital platforms have been pivotal in advancing digital horticulture, offering farmers critical insights into crop management and direct access to markets (Table 1). The Government of India has launched various initiatives to promote digital agriculture and horticulture. The Pradhan Mantri Kisan Sampada Yojana (PMKSY) focuses on modernizing infrastructure, increasing value addition, and promoting agro-processing in the horticulture sector. The National Horticulture Mission (NHM) aims to November–December 2024 63 improve productivity, quality, and market access for horticultural crops by facilitating technology dissemination, training programmes, and market linkages. Initiatives like Digital India and the Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyan work towards closing the digital gap, promoting digital literacy, and equipping farmers with digital tools and platforms. The ICAR has compiled over 300 mobile apps from ICAR institutes, State Agricultural Universities, and Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), which are integrated into a single app, KISSAN 2.