 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research brought out first edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry in 1962 for serving the end-users ranging from livestock owners to academicians. This is the Fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry which includes 48 chapters under nine sections, such as Animal Genetics and Breeding; Animal Nutrition and Feed Technologies; Animal Management; Animal Reproduction; Animal Health Management; Animal Biotechnology; Animal Products, Technology and Machineries; Economics and Trade of Livestock and Poultry Enterprise; and Social Sciences. It has 19 new chapters like Impact of Biotechnology, Nanotechnology: Applications in Animal Sciences; Carbon Trading: Mechanisms and Opportunities in Livestock Sector; Intellectual Property Rights Regime; Indigenous Technical Knowledge etc.; and old chapters were revised holistically. The fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry will prove useful to the students, teachers, livestock/ poultry farmers, and to especially those who visualize the economic growth of country with the support of livestock sector. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 1550 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-086-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2020 11 Converting Scientific Knowledge and Technical Innovation into Successful Business – Case of freshwater aquaculture N K Barik ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 752 104 Agri-business incubation centre of ICAR-CIFA has been operating in the field of freshwater aquaculture since 2013. During last six years, centre has contributed significantly to the entrepreneurship development in freshwater aquaculture. It has leveraged technological strength to showcase successful business models across the country. The setup has generated social impacts in the form of new business creation, income and employment. Establishment of new enterprises in strengthening value chain has been a major achievement. Key words: Agri-business incubation, Freshwater aquaculture Indian Farming 70(01): 11–14; January 2020 B USINESS incubation is the process of nurturing entrepreneurs, start-ups in the early stage of enterprise development. Agri-business incubators are specialised in promoting enterprises relating to the food value chain. Traditionally, agriculture was considered synonymous to farming or husbandry activities but in the modern times, agri-business encompasses much broader activities in the value chain from inputs-supply to food-processing, marketing and export.