 The various components of the pilot plant are juicer for kinnow (automatic electric screw type); pulverizer for pulp extraction of mango and guava; stainless steel bin (Food grade) for juice/pulp collection; batch pasteurizer; autoclave (SS 304, vertical) for sterilization of glassware, culture media for probiotic culture preparation; cold centrifuge rotational speed of the drum at 100 rpm and 10 minutes residence time was observed to be optimum for removing the adhering dirt, stains, other foreign materials or caked dirt on the rhizome or between segments of the rhizome. The capacity of machine is 7-8 times more as compared to traditional method of washing and peeling. The estimated cost of machine is around ` 11,000 per unit. Seed extractor for Ash gourd and Cucumber (Tavanur Centre) To reduce the drudgery and enable fast extraction of seeds, a seed extractor was developed for ash gourd (capacity: 350 kg/h) and cucumber (capacity: 215 kg/ h) by AICRP on PHET coordinating centre, Tavanur. The principle of operation is to penetrate the rotating tool with handle, into the placental region after adjusting its diameter, which helps in scraping out the seeds Ginger-turmeric washer-cum-peeler Coconut fibre strength tester Ash gourd and cucumber seed extractor Solar-biomass integrated drying system for spices POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 92 for harvesting of probiotic cells; Horizontal Laminar Airflow (Size 3′×2′×2′) for providing an aseptic chamber for housing the bottling unit and for addition of probiotic culture; BOD Incubator for incubation of probiotic cultures; Pneumatic bottling unit and refrigerator for storage of probiotic juice. The total cost of machinery excluding cold centrifuge, BOD incubator and refrigerator was ` 4.97 lakhs. Mechanization package for rope making from outer sheath of banana pseudo stem The package consists of equipment for splitting the outer sheath of banana pseudo stem and equipment for twisting and winding of split strands from outer sheath of banana pseudo stem. This package of equipment would greatly help in value addition from banana waste and the total value of the produce generated from this waste would be about ` 1.0 lakh per hectare. Equipment for splitting the outer sheath: The equipment contains a pair of rotating nylon rollers with HSS circular cutting blades embedded on the first roller. The second roller has the grooves on its surface such that the blades embedded on the first roller exactly fit into the grooves of the second roller. The first roller is mounted on a shaft rotated at a preset speed by a 0.5 hp variable speed motor. The outer sheath of banana pseudo stem is fed in between the two rotating rollers, at 150 rpm. As the outer sheath passes between the two rollers, the sheath is split into various strands. The rollers are to be changed for different width of strands of sheath required viz., 2 mm, 3 mm and 4 mm. The cost of the machine is approx.