 Box 3: Strengthening of higher agriculture education in India The impact of AUs on agricultural production during 1966-68 i.e., during green revolution, convinced the states that innovative approach of linking research, teaching and extension was needed in agriculture and hence, during the period 1969-1978 fourteen new AUs came into existence. Recognizing the importance of higher agricultural education, each state subsequently established agricultural university. Originally established in 1905 at Pusa (Bihar) with the financial assistance of an American Philanthropist, Mr. Henry Phipps, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) started functioning from New Delhi since 1936 after its relocation following a major earthquake which, damaged the Institute’s building at Pusa (Bihar). IARI is the country’s premier institute for agricultural research, education and extension. It was given the Deemed- to-be-University’ status in 1956 by the UGC and to award Masters and Ph.D. degrees in various agricultural disciplines. Mathura veterinary college established in 1947 became the first college to introduce the degree of B.V.Sc. & AH. Currently, there are 17 universities offering degree in various courses of veterinary and allied sciences. The course on agricultural engineering leading to bachelor degree was initiated for the first time in 1942 at Allahabad Agriculture Institute. First exclusive Fisheries College was established at Mangalore in 1969 under the auspices of the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bengaluru. From the very humble beginning, agricultural universities now impart education in the various disciplines of agriculture viz Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Forestry, Horticulture, Veterinary and Animal Husbandry, Dairy Science, Food Technology, Fisheries Science, Agribusiness Management, etc. AUs now impart education at the level of diploma, degree, masters and doctoral level. Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 317 3. Growth of agricultural education institutions The establishment of SAUs that started in 1960 with GBPUAT being the first in the country picked up gradually and by 2001, almost all the major States except NE States had at least one SAU, some bigger States such as undivided Bihar, UP, Maharashtra, Karnataka, undivided MP and West Bengal had two or more. The number soared up to 74 in 2017, of which 63 are SAUs. This happened partly due to creation of 3 new States in 2001 (Fig. 2). While some States like Gujarat, Rajasthan, Karnataka and UP established full-fledged SAUs, a new trend of establishing sectoral universities started cropping up. Consequently, 4 universities for Veterinary and Animal Sciences, 2 in Horticulture and one in Fisheries were opened during 2012-17 in various states. With the increase in universities, the colleges in agricultural and allied science also increased substantially enabling access to agricultural education to a large number of students (ISAP Report 2020).