 This high degree of cross-species amplification showed that flanking regions of SSR sequences were evolutionary conserved among grass species, particularly in Dichanthium and rice. A total of 670 bands which gave thick and clear amplification were scored from 33 random primers with an average of 20.3 bands per primer. Out of 670 bands scored, 142 (21.2%) were monomorphic among genotypes and 528 (78.8%) were polymorphic. A majority of rice primer pairs amplified only one or two bands, 4 primer pairs (Osa-2014-322, Osa-2014-350, Osa-2014-399 and Osa-2014-400) amplified three bands each, while primer pair Osa- 2014-305 produced six bands. A total of 528 amplified alleles from 16 polymorphic SSR markers were used for genetic diversity analysis, and genetic similarity coefficient ranged from 0.67 to 0.92. Jute Organelle genetic diversity traced breeding history: Organelle genetic diversity of 160 jute genotypes (81 Corchorus capsularis and 79 C. olitorius) from different continents and eight wild Corchorus species was studied using 13 mitochondrial and one chloroplast DNA specific markers. A total of four analytical approaches, classificatory analysis by neighbour joining, principal coordinate analysis, Bayesian population structure analysis and non- Bayesian recollection algorithm were used for identification of organelle genome groups. High congruence was observed among different grouping approaches suggesting high accuracy of the grouping based on organelle DNA variability. The study identified more (5) organelle genome groups in C. capsularis than in C. olitorius (3) with low within-group heterozygosity and a few admixture of groups. C. olitorius organelle genome groups exhibited lower diversity compared to C. capsularis. Between-species variability accounted for 43% of the total organelle genome variability. The study also revealed high intraspecific differences among cultivated Corchorus species at organelle genome level. The organelle genome group of wild Corchorus was found distinct from cultivated types. The study also helped trace back breeding history of jute using molecular evidences. The origin of the fibre type cultivars of C. capsularis could be traced back to D 154; the first widely cultivated C. capsularis variety released in early twentieth century. Similarly, the organelle genome group of new C. olitorius cultivars was same with that of Chinsura Green, the first C. olitorius variety grown extensively during early and mid-twentieth century. Interestingly same organelle genome group is present in two important African genotypes Tanganyika 1 and Sudan Green, which were introduced after 1950, which is a reliable evidence for African origin of C. olitorius. SSR identification: Genomic SSRs were developed from C. olitorius cv. Sudan Green. The Perl script MISA was employed to identify microsatellites from assembled scaffolds.