 Farmers also wanted the government policies to pay attention to a more coordinated decision-making structure, early warning and forecasting measures and capacity building of stakeholders in dealing with drought. Supporting self-help groups, insurance, and diversification were also considered important by farmers. Gender mainstreaming of drought management Gender mainstreaming is very important in drought management, as men and women experience different levels of impact. Women are more prone to drought effects, as they have higher workloads managing farms and households with limited resource access. Governments have started various schemes to empower the farmers. Mahila Shakti Kendra (MSK) aims to empower rural women with skill development and employment opportunities. Rashtriya Mahila Kosh (RMK) is an apex micro-finance organization that provides concessional micro-credit to poor women for various livelihood and income-generating activities. Skill Upgradation and Mahila Coir Yojana is an exclusive training programme of MSME aimed at the skill development of women artisans engaged in the coir Industry. To promote female entrepreneurship, the Government has initiated Programmes like Stand-Up India and Mahila e-Haat (an online marketing platform to support women entrepreneurs/ SHGs/NGOs), Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programme (ESSDP). Pradhan Mantri Mudra Yojana (PMMY) provides access to institutional finance for micro/small businesses. These schemes help strengthen adaptive capacity of women and help enhance and diversify their incomes. Government initiatives for drought management In India, both Central and State Governments have initiated many drought management programmes, including the National Drought Management Framework, Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY), National Initiative on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), National Adaptation Fund for Climate Change (NAFCC) and the National Water Mission. National Agricultural Drought Assessment and Monitoring System (N-ADAMS) is a recent initiative using satellite data for agricultural drought information and monitoring systems in India. SUMMARY Drought is a recurrent and challenging issue for India, particularly in its semi-arid and rainfed regions. With effective drought management strategies, including early warning systems, drought-resistant agricultural practices, and targeted policy support, the negative impacts of drought can be mitigated. However, there is still much to be done in terms of improving the resilience of rural populations and ensuring that adaptive strategies are well-coordinated across government, civil society, and the private sector. By strengthening preparedness and response mechanisms, India can better manage drought risks and ensure food security, especially in rainfed regions. *Corresponding author email: car.rao@icar.ov.