 This signiﬁes that more comprehensive and inclusive policies approach to identify the key determinants are required. Findings in the present study identify two major interventions – agricultural and nutritional – along with the gradually increasing impact of the climate change. 5.1. Agricultural interventions These need to be targeted in the states which have high vul- nerability of agriculture to climate change and its affect on the food security and nutritional status of children. These interven- tions include developing cropping systems with higher resilience to drought and water stress, and improving crop resilience to natural disasters, including ﬂoods. Hence, there is a need to in- crease public investment in both development and dissemination of the crops and varieties that are more tolerant to temperature and precipitation ﬂuctuations, and water and nutrient-eﬃcient ( Chakrabarty, 2016 ). Rising CO 2 levels can cause accumulation of excess C and re- duction in nutrients and thus, alter the C, N metabolism in C3 plants such as wheat ( Högy et al., 2013 ). Enhanced CO 2 is known to cause reduction in rice milling percentage, head rice recovery, protein content, and nutritional quality of grains ( Myers et al., 2014 ). Reduction in nutrient level of C3 crops, such as wheat and rice with enhanced CO 2 has been reported ( Soares et al., 2019 ). Therefore, C4 crops (much tolerant to drought and heat stress), such as sorghum ( jowar ) and minor millets like pearl millet (ba- jra), and ﬁnger millet (ragi), should be promoted in very high and high vulnerable geographical areas, such as Rajasthan, Mad- hya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, and Uttar Pradesh. among the states with high VI, maize (corn) and millets such as bajra and jowar are grown in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Chhat- tisgarh, Jharkhand, Rajasthan, Maharashtra, Odisha, Karnataka, and Tamil Nadu. These can be often cultivated in all the three seasons: Kharif (July–October), Rabi (October–March), and Spring (March– June) though with variable yields. Along with shifting in farming practices, preparation of ready-to-eat products from millets can promote adoption of these crops. Mass awareness about the merits of growing and consuming millets is required. These are rich in micronutrients including iron, calcium, zinc, magnesium, phosphorous and potassium, and di- etary ﬁbres. Regular consumption of millets can help overcome malnutrition among a majority of Indian population ( PIB, 2014 ). The schemes of Minimum Support Price (MSP) and Public Distri- bution System (PDS) for procurement of nutrient-dense grains by the government can be a valuable strategy to guard against under- nutrition in the face of climate variability and extreme weather events. As per the Annual Report (2016–2017) of Department of Agri- culture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, the total land area cov- ered for foodgrains production was 122.