in and the same may be made available to all the students. yy Established Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) to facilitate 24x7 online accesses of selected journals in agricultural and allied sciences to all researchers, teachers and students. yy Developed of e-content development studio, language lab, smart as well as virtual classrooms, conducted exams through virtual mode by AUs has provided students and faculties access to the information and knowledge repositories during as well as post pandemic period. yy Resilient Agricultural Education System (RAES) - the need of digital resilience especially the ICT were strongly felt in teaching and learning ecosystem of ICAR- AU owing to social distancing measures and travel restrictions during Covid pandemic. The Initiative focused on development of digital infrastructure, creation of digital content and facilitation of digital capacity building. yy Prepared and circulated advisories targeting different stakeholder groups including fish farmers of freshwater and coastal aquaculture, hatchery operators/workers, feed plant workers, workers in processing factories, fishermen etc.      

  doubling farmers income Statewise Synthesis INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi Printed: July-2022 Concept Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR), New Delhi Guidance A.K. Singh, DDG (AE), ICAR, New Delhi Editing P S Birthal, National Professor and Director, ICAR NIAP, New Delhi Chandre Gowda M.J., Principal Scientist, ICAR ATARI Bengaluru Rajesh K Rana, Principal Scientist, ICAR ATARI Ludhiana All rights reserved © 2022, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi State specific Contributors Directors and Scientists of ICAR-ATARIs, KVKs and Scientists of Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR, New Delhi Design and Production Punit Bhasin, Incharge, Production Unit, DKMA, ICAR, New Delhi Published by Dr. S.K. Malhotra, Project Director (DKMA); Lasertypeset & printed by M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028. iii MESSAGE O ur country has a strong agricultural system which has transformed the country from a food deficient to a food exporter. Today the whole world is expecting India to ensure the availability of food grains even though India has only 2.4% of the global geographical area and 17.7% of the global population to feed. The National Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System of the country is well equipped to meet the national food security requirements of the country, yet the rapidly declining land holdings, lack of infrastructure and market-related issues have remained a cause of concern. Hon'ble Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi ji understood the nuances of the problem and gave a clarion call for doubling the income of farmers.