 The data was collected at an interval of one hour and Moisture sensor and Rasberry pi board Monitoring soil moisture in the banana installed with IoT enabled soil moisture sensors for smart irrigation Banana experimental field installed with soil moisture sensors Banana at maturity in the experimental field irrigated with IoT enabled soil moisture sensors Indian Horticulture 20 sent to the cloud for processing and decision taken to switch on / off the irrigation pump through the AI. The microclimate is characterized throughout the experimental period. Precise irrigation in banana cultivation have been monitored in the experimental field on an area of 1.25 acres. The post-harvest quality and grading study also done in the lab. The experimental results indicated that by implementing IoT- based automation of smart irrigation, image-based N management, 25-30% water over and above the existing drip irrigation system and 15-20% of nutrients of recommended dose of fertilizers in banana cultivation can be saved. Major outcomes Implementing advanced ICT tools like ML and AI can facilitate better management in banana cultivation through optimum utilization of resources without compromising yield and effective supply chain management. To make the system acceptable to farmers, it should be economical and affordable. The system is scalable, and it has commercial viability, looking into the needs and affordability of the stakeholders. It is suitable for deployment among larger, smaller, and marginal landholders. Benefits achieved The key advantages of an IoT-based smart irrigation system are water conservation, nutrient uptake, lower total energy consumption, and increased yield in various fruit crops. This could be due to irrigation optimization based on climatic conditions, soil moisture levels, crop age, and crop yield potential. Furthermore, the smart irrigation system will greatly reduce deep percolation of water by keeping soil water content below field capacity (10-15% less). Switching tensiometer-based automatic irrigation control system (AICS) lowered irrigation requirement by 40 to 50% without compromising the tomatoes yield. Precise amount of water in smart irrigation system leads to reduction in energy consumption, human labour usage, and operational cost. The delivery of precise volumes of water in automatic and sensor-based irrigation systems improves water and nutrient use efficiency. Irrigation using capacitance-based soil moisture-based AICS reduced irrigation water requirements by 30 to 80% compared to single or daily fixed-time irrigation, greatly reduced nitrogen leaching, and improved nitrogen-use efficiency and production. A precise amount of irrigation water delivered at the optimal moment for crop growth leads to increased nutrient uptake. For example, banana plants under the automated irrigation system exhibited greater concentrations of N, P, and K (1.79-2.49%, 0.12-0.19%, and 1.25-1.