 Among non- bioindicators of weather forecasting, change in organic and inorganic chemical compounds, smoky atmosphere, foul smell of butter, physical changes in the atmosphere appearing around the sun, speed and direction of wind, atmospheric pressure , humidity, colour of sky and colour of cloud indicate receipt of rainfall. Bio- indicators of weather which Shri Dorjey Angchok reviewed include, behaviour of ants, branching in trees, direction of new leaves of creepers, change in behaviour of crows, cuckoo and sparrow and growth of particular vegetation as Shri Dorjey Angchok Department of Extension Education, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (Uttar Pradesh) 221 005  indicator of rainfall. Keywords: change in behaviour of insects, birds, vegetation, sky, cloud, sun 2723 Prediction of rainfall through abiotic indicators Farmers of Boden block of Kalahandi district in Orissa revealed that heavy rainfall is indicated when condensed clouds come from north-west direction or a mystery circle is formed around the moon after one to two showers of rain. Prediction of rainfall through observation is easy which helps in proper crop planning. Keywords: rainfall, cloud in north-west direction, circle around moon Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit 8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2719 Forecasting of rainfall Villagers of Barmasa of Dumka district in Jharkhand observe the following for prediction of rainfall: (i) If the clouds are dark black and wind is blowing fast for longer period, the rain will occur after some time. (ii) Turning blackish colour of palas (Butea monosperma) leaves is indication of approaching rain. (iii) If flying of bagula in big groups is seen, it means heavy rain will occur. (iv) During summer season, when temperature is very low, if cry of titahari bird is heard, there will be rainfall after some time. Keywords: palas, bagula, titahari bird, rainfall, cloud Shri Baroop Lal Singh Barmasa, Sahra Dumka (Jharkhand) 2296 Methods of rainfall prediction Shri R. M. Tripathi studied the methods of rainfall prediction based on authenticity of panchang for his master's degree which has been accepted for Masters degree in Agricultural Extension by Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi in 1996. Some of the findings are indicated below. 1. There is a formula evolved by Parasar rishi to determine the type of clouds that occurs from year to year. Addition of 3 to the current sakabda (shakaera) and dividing the result by 4, the reminder represent the clouds of that year. If remainder is 1, the cloud is abartaka If remainder is 2, the cloud is sambartak If remainder is 3, the cloud is pushkar If remainder is 4 (practically), the cloud is drona. (a) If the dominating cloud of the year is abartaka, there is rain in certain part.