 Restoration of fisheries diversity in River Ganga: ICAR-CIFRI in its continued effort to restore the Restoration of fisheries diversity in river Ganga fisheries diversity of River Ganga, has undertaken on a large-scale ranching of Indian major carp fingerlings produced by induced breeding of wild broodstocks collected from River Ganga. More than 20 lakh fingerlings were released in different stretches of River Ganga. Further, a hilsa ranching station was established at Farakka, West Bengal, and hilsa fish are being ranched in river Ganga above Farakka barrage for restoration and conservation. ❑ F1 progeny of Clarias dussumieri matured in captivity 7. Crop Management Crop Production Technologies for integrated farming system: Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi has developed crop and resource management technologies for different farming systems. A horticulture crop-based integrated farming system with a net income of ` 2.4 lakh per acre per year has been developed. Green Seeker and Nutrient Expert® (NE) as decision support systems for precision nitrogen application was developed which saves up to 26 kg nitrogen/ha, thus, reducing the cost of cultivation and adverse environmental impact. Conservation agriculture system in pigeonpea: Conservation agriculture (CA)-based ICM module was developed in pigeonpea with 1.92 t/ha yield and profitability of ` 82,776/ha. CA based cotton-wheat system was developed which gave 44.1% higher system productivity than conventional tillage with a saving of 25–30% N and emerged as a superior alternative to rice- wheat system. Nitrogen-nanoclay polymer composites (NCPC) was developed and found most efficient in enhancing yield of maize. Rock-phosphate and waste mica treated with phosphate and potash solubilizing bacteria were found as alternate sources of P and K. In farm machineries, gladiolus corm harvester, low cost storage structure for rural areas, spinach-cum-coriander offset rotary cutter were developed. Artificial intelligence in crop and resource management: Remote Sensing and GIS approaches have been used to develop methods for crop and resources management in IARI. Drone remote sensing method for field phenotyping was developed with multispectral sensor for monitoring nitrogen and drought stress in wheat. In a collaborative study with ISRO and NASA, ground based spectroradiometer and air borne AVIRIS – NG instrument were used to map eight horticultural crops in Sabour, Bhagalpur region of Bihar. Crop residue burning is a major problem in Punjab and Haryana. The method for real-time monitoring of crop residue burning by using thermal image acquired from seven satellites at the IARI satellite ground station was developed.