 Globally, most of the tropical tuber vegetables are cultivated in Africa, Asia and South America. Among them cassava, sweet potato, greater yam, elephant foot yam and colocasia are major ones. Elephant foot yam is a vegetatively propagated tropical tuber crop that offers excellent scope for adoption as a cash earner due to its production potential, high net returns, higher shelf life and popularity as a vegetable in various delicious cuisines. Besides the source of high energy, the tuber is also rich in potassium, phosphorus, calcium, iron, manganese, zinc, antioxidants, and Mangaldeep Sarkar1, B N Chaudhari2 and N K Jadav1 Technology flavonoids. The tubers have blood purifying property and it is used in medicines for the treatment of piles, asthma, dysentery, and other abdominal disorders. High dietary fibre and low glycemic index make it a rich food for the treatment of heart ailments as well as diabetes. It also possesses an excellent amount of omega fatty acids which regulate the good cholesterol level in the body. It is low in fat containing only essential fatty acids, thus, helps in reducing the risks of obesity and diseases associated with it. In India, this crop is traditionally cultivated in Kerala, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, Gujarat, and Jharkhand. Southern Gujarat, particularly the forest tracts of Dang district and adjoining parts possess immense diversity in tuber crops like elephant foot yam, greater yam, sweet potato and colocasia. Keeping in view the above facts, Navsari Agricultural University, started a crop improvement programme on elephant foot yam by collecting germplasm from local as well as from different parts of India and evaluated them to discover elite genotypes for the farmers of tribal region and all over Gujarat. Following the breeding method of clonal selection one elite genotype was developed and after the recommendation of 51st State Seed Sub-Committee, Gandhinagar, Gujarat it was released by the name of Swagata. Indian Horticulture 12 Variety Swagata (NEFY-7): Field view of plant and harvested corm Yield comparison: Plot yield difference between Swagata (NEFY-7) and national check Gajendra VARIETAL CHARACTERS Morphological traits This variety has a stout upright pseudo stem with Y type of rachis pattern. Petiole texture is rough with light pink ground colour. Petiole colour is green with white patches. Speckles on petiole are small and contiguous. Bract colour of main bud is light pink. Corm shape is elliptical with brown epidermis. Flesh of corm is light orange in colour. At its highest vegetative peak plant height is 94.96 cm with culm girth 11.75 cm, east west canopy spread 92.90 cm, north south canopy spread 90.21 cm and corm circumference 52.56 cm. Leaflets in adult plant are 2020 cm in width, 3 partite. Inflorescence is terminal and very large. Male part is obconical and 7.50 cm long. Stamens are light yellow. Female part of the spadix is 12.60 cm long.