 : 978-81-7164-146-8 Indian Farming January 2020 37 Entrepreneurship in Meat Processing Muthukumar ICAR- National Research Centre on Meat, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 092 Meat sector is an integral and important component of agro-food industry in India, which contributes immensely for nutritional security, employment generation and earning much required foreign exchange. India produces about 8.1 million tonnes of meat annually (DADF, 2019). Around 72% of Indians are now on non-vegetarian dietary habit and regular meat consumption has rigorously increased over the years. Holding 11.6% of world livestock population and 17.71% of the world human population, India has tremendous potential in meat production, processing and marketing. The Indian meat market was valued close to USD 30 billion and is one of the fastest growing industry at a CAGR of 22% (Mintel Industry Research Report, 2017). Rapid consolidation in meat processing, more vertical integration and large number of smaller processing units will be the key trends in future. Key words: Meat product processing, Value added meat, Wholesome meat production Indian Farming 70(01): 37–39; January 2020 A GRI-BUSINESS Incubation centre at National Research Centre on Meat, Hyderabad, a pioneering initiative in the domain of meat processing technology, was set up in 2016 with support of Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi to foster the growth of meat processing ventures in our country. The ABI, in addition to the requisite in-house expertise in the relevant focal areas of meat processing and technologies for comercialisation, has state of art primary and secondary meat processing facilities with FSSAI and FSMS certification. This centre envisages facilitating incubation of new startups/entrepreneurs and enterprises for innovative technologies by providing need based physical, technical, business and networking support, facilities and services to test and validate their innovation before successful establishment of enterprises. Presently, the ICAR-NRCM-ABI centre is promoting entrepreneurs in fields of meat animal and poultry production, wholesome meat production, value added meat products processing, value addition of animal byproducts, enhancement of meat quality and safety. Meat business: Not only a man’s world anymore: Triusha Foods Dr. (Mrs.) K. Martina Rani is a Mother and a teacher , who paved her way in the male driven meat business world. She didn’t spend tons of money to set up a unit, and she didn’t have a major plan, except to share with others about her everyday life as a homemaker, as a pioneer woman. She knew who her target audience would be, and what she is going to deal with and believed in it. Dr. Martina, aged 41 years, along with her husband Mr. Donbosco, Indian Farming January 2020 38 approached ICAR- NRC on Meat and shared her vision to start a meat based venture.