 (iii) Usage of PFMS modules has to be made mandatory for all registered agencies for making payments, advances and transfers. (iv) All Departmental Agencies incurring expenditure in respect of Central Sector Schemes must register and compulsorily use the PFMS Modules. 70 (v) All Grantee Institutions have to adopt PFMS modules for making Payments/Transfers/ Advance from Grants received from the Central Govt. This will enable generation of on-line Utilization Certificates for claiming funds from the Central Government. (vi) Ministries have to take an action for integrating their respective systems/applications with the PFMS. 4. The Central Project Monitoring unit (CPMU) of PFMS (Shivaji Stadium, New Delhi) assists the Central ministries/Departments in registration of Implementing Agencies for the Central Sector Schemes. Thereafter, Ministries are required to deploy/allocate their own resource persons to support Departmental Agencies as well as Grantee Institutions. The full roll-out of PFMS requires fresh assessment of resources, including hardware, software, connectivity and technical resources to facilitate implementation at all levels of hierarchy. 5. It is the duty of Chief Controller of Accounts (CCAs) / Controller of Accounts (CAs) to draw up an Action Plan to facilitate full roll out of PFMS in their respective Ministries in consultation with the Secretary/Financial Adviser of the Ministry concerned. Modules to implement the Mandate Modules developed/under developed by PFMS for stakeholders as per the Union Cabinet approval and mandate are as under:- I. Fund Flow Monitoring (a) Agency registration (b) Expenditure management and fund utilization through PFMS EAT module (c) Accounting Module for registered agencies (d) Treasury Interface (e) PFMS-PRI fund flow and utilization interface (f) Mechanism for State Governments towards fund tracking for State schemes (g) Monitoring of Externally Aided Projects (EAP) II. Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) modules Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) transferring subsidies directly to the people through their bank/Post office account is Direct Benefit Transfer. It aims to timely transfer of benefit to the citizen by bringing efficiency, effectiveness, transparency and accountability in the Government system. Ministry of Agriculture is dealing with two (02) Grants viz. (1) Department of Agriculture, Cooperation & Farmers Welfare and (2) Department of Agriculture Research & Education. There are three types of payments for DBT beneficiaries:- (a) PAO to beneficiaries (b) Agency to beneficiaries (c) State treasuries to beneficiaries III. Interfaces for Banking (a) CBS (Core Banking Solutions) (b) India Post (c) RBI (Reserve Bank of India) (d) NABARD & Cooperative Banks 71 Modules to implement Enhanced mandate 1. PAO Computerization-Online payments, receipts and accounting of Govt.