 In cases where Government organizations hosting KVKs find it difficult to submit the AUC immediately after the closure of the financial year may get the scheme audited in respect of Grant- in-Aid released during the preceding year by the Chartered Accountant at their own cost for the purpose of release of grant during the current financial year and furnish the Utilization Certificate (UC). Such Government Organizations may get the propriety audit conducted through statutory auditors separately and furnish the AUC of the Grant-in-Aid as early as possible (GFR-2005). The NGOs hosting KVKs should submit the audited utilization certificate at the beginning of the financial year duly audited by the Chartered Accountant in respect of Grant-in-Aid released during the preceding year to enable release of funds from the ICAR to KVKs. Format for AUC in respect of KVK Main Account, Statement of Expenditure in respect of KVK Main Account, Monthly accounts, main (Bank) Cash Book of KVK etc are presented in Appendix XVI to XIX. 7.4 Revolving Fund account A separate bank account shall be opened by the KVK for Revolving Fund. The running cost of feeding dairy animals, poultry birds, pigs, goats and fish may be met from this account sub-head. The maintenance cost of the instructional farm such as purchase of inputs, irrigation and labour charges etc. will also be met from this sub-head. The revolving fund is to be operated strictly according to the Revolving Fund Scheme of the ICAR, which is annexed in Appendix XX. The Principal amount given by ICAR has to be repaid @ 20% of the Principal amount each year from the commencement of 6th year on which ICAR sanctioned the fund. If a KVK fails to repay the Seed Money and/or income generated through Revolving Fund, is taken by host organization, ICAR has to adjust this amount against the normal budget released to the KVK. The Host Organization shall ensure that revenue generated from the activities undertaken utilizing Revolving Fund is ploughed back to the fund and it should be utilized for creation of infrastructure as well as for various resource generating activities of the KVK. 97 Financial Management Annual activity wise account in respect of Revolving Fund should be furnished in the format as per Appendix XXI. 7.5 Standards of financial propriety Every officer incurring or authorizing expenditure from public funds should be guided by high standards of financial propriety. Among the principles on which emphasis is generally laid are the following: ●Should exercise the same vigilance in respect of expenditure incurred from public money, as a person of ordinary prudence would exercise in respect of expenditure of his own money, the expenditure should not be prima facie more than the occasion demands, nor exercise powers of sanctioning expenditure to pass an order, which will be directly or indirectly to own advantage.