 Development of breed descriptors at molecular level for different livestock and poultry breeds. Biochemical polymorphism analyses – blood groups, transferrins, milk proteins. Collection and storage of samples for DNA fingerprinting; isolation and quantification of DNA from blood and semen; Restricted enzyme digestion of genome DNA, Analysis and transfer of DNA from agarose electrophoresis; Nucleic acid hybridization; Analysis of DNA fingerprinting, PCR-RFLP assay. Cryogenic preservation of animal germplasm. Unit 9 : Research Techniques for Quantitative Animal Genetics Use of computers in handling animal breeding data. Estimation of variances and covariances. Development of statistical models for analyses of breed data and to quantify environmental variance. Estimation of inbreeding and relationship. Estimation of inbreeding rate in a closed herd / flock. Estimation and interpretation of genetic and phenotypic parameters. Development of efficient selection programmes and procedures. Estimation of genetic gains. Designing and evaluation of breeding strategies like reciprocal recurrent selection, diallele and polyallele crossing. Designing field based progeny testing programmes. Development of efficient methods and traits for genetic evaluation of males under indigenous conditions. Data bank concept. Unit 10 : Laboratory Animal Breeding Laboratory animal species viz mice, rat, guinea pig, rabbit, dog and monkey – Their chromosome numbers – genome size – major genes. Physiological, nutritional, reproduction parameters, maintenance protocol – pedigree recording, planned mating. Selection and Mating methods /systems- monogamous, polygamous and others. Genetic control and monitoring-Record keeping- Ethics and legislation for management and use of laboratory animals. Nomenclature for different strains, inbred lines (SPF line, Knockout mice, etc.) – Animal model for human disease. Specific utility of different laboratory species for different requirements. 5.2 ANIMAL NUTRITION Unit 1: Energy and Proteins Nutritional significance of carbohydrates, lipids and proteins. Cell-wall fractionation. Available energy from organic nutrients. Partitioning of dietary energy. Basal metabolic rate. Energy retention. Factors affecting energy utilization. Direct and indirect calorimetry. Dietary lipids - their digestion, absorption and metabolism. Essential fatty acids. Effect of dietary fat on milk and body composition. Proteins - digestion, absorption and utilization. Comparative efficiency of amino acids as energy source. Essential and critical amino acids. Protein evaluation. Metabolizable protein concept. Protein energy inter-relationship. Energetic of protein utilization for maintenance and different productive functions.