 Patents have obtained on different technologies for production of alcohol from cassava, cassava starch based biodegradable plastics, fermented cassava flour and hand operated cassava-chipping machine. Production technology for high yielding oyster, medicinal and blue oyster mushroom species have been standardized and commercialized. For export promotion, post-harvest produce handling protocols have been developed in different commodities. A low cost environment friendly cool chamber was developed for Indian Agriculture after Independence 120 on farm storage of fruits, vegetables and flowers. A number of value-added and novel products have been developed in coconut, mango, guava, jackfruit, aonla, litchi, different vegetable crops, potato, tuber crops, mushroom etc. 3. Salient achievements in important horticultural crops In general, horticultural crops are prone to natural vagaries and emerging pests and diseases. Salient research achievements in overcoming few of these production challenges and gains obtained through research in meeting market demand are given below. 3.1. Fruits 3.1.1. Commercialization of Amrapali and Mallika: Hybrids which changed the contour of mango farming Fruits of Amrapali variety of mango in farmers’ field. Amrapali – a unique mango hybrid (Dashehari x Neelum), is precocious, distinctly dwarf, highly regular and prolific bearer was released in 1979. It is suitable for high-density planting owing to its dwarf stature. Mallika is semi-vigorous and hence can be planted at 6-8 m spacing. Amrapali responds well to pruning and thus is ideal genotype for establishing high- density orchard. The current acreage under this variety is over 2,00,000 ha in the country, besides it is being commercially grown in several neighboring countries like Bangladesh, Nepal and Bhutan. It has the highest area of over 73,000 hectares in Odisha spread in eight districts of which prominent are Keonjhar, Dhenknal, Angul and Kashipur Block of Raigada. The other prominent states growing Amrapali are West Bengal, Jharkhand, Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Uttarakhand and Tripura. Farmers in Odisha have registered this mango as ‘Udyan Fresh’ and since 2012 are regularly marketing their produce in Azadpur Fruit and Vegetable Mandi in New Delhi. In West Bengal, it is occupying an area of 15,000 ha. in the tribal districts of Bankura, 24 Parganas, Malda, Murshidabad, Purulia, Birbhum, etc. In Bankura, a Tribal women SHG has established 1,500 ha during last 10 years to achieve livelihood security of 150 Shabar tribe members where over 500 orchards have been raised through MGNREGS since 2010. They are now even exporting the quality produce to Bangladesh and Nepal. Similarly, in Jharkhand it is grown commercially in the districts of Ranchi, Simdega, Gumla, Latehar, Hazaribagh, Dumka, Sahibganj and Godda. The present estimated area under Amrapali is about 23,000 ha. During 2019, the farmers associated with PRADAN -an NGO sold Amrapali worth Rs.