 Considering the costs and drawbacks of the available fertigation systems, it was felt necessary to develop a cost-effective, user- friendly and efficient fertigation system that would be made easily from materials available in the market. Accordingly, a three-stage fertigation system was developed that can decide appropriate fertilizers quantity, mix them well and distribute them evenly throughout the field with significant uniformity. This article's goal is to give readers a concise overview of the three-stage fertigation system along with its benefits over the existing fertigation systems, the procedure to give fertigation by the developed system, general guidelines to be followed while giving fertigation using the developed system and potential for automation in the future to bring the more accuracy in the fertigation. Keywords: Precision fertigation, Stock solution, Three-stage fertigation system, Uniform fertigation I n order to increase productivity, plant nutrition is crucial. Utilizing fertilizers at an optimum rate is necessary for higher crop yields. With the introduction of high yielding varieties after the green revolution, fertilizer use increased rapidly. However, at the moment, the use of more fertilizers is not resulting into higher productivity and fertilizer-use efficiency is steadily declining. In order to increase yield and enhance input-use efficiency, it is necessary to investigate new approaches and sources for plant nutrition. The application of plant nutrients via irrigation is known as fertigation. Chemical fertilizers dissolved in irrigation water are used in this technique, and the plant roots receive water and nutrients at the same time and place, conserving both expensive inputs: water and fertilizers. The time, quantity, concentration and ratio of the nutrients are all Indian Farming 73 (07): 07-10; July 2023 easily controlled with a fertigation system. Crop yields and quality are higher as a result of this improved management than they would be with traditional methods of fertilizer application. Fertigation is a modern agro-technique that offers a fantastic chance to maximize productivity and reduce environmental damage. Any irrigation system is suitable for fertigation, but applying fertilizers with a traditional irrigation system can result in an unbalanced distribution of nutrients across the crop area. For fertigation, pressurized irrigation systems including drip, sprinkler and micro- sprinklers are ideal. Need and essentiality of fertigation The unequal expansion of fertilizer leads to insufficient or unbalanced fertilizer application, which frequently results in increased fertilizer use and import of fertilizers. The link between fertilizer use and potential yield is further weakened by the loss in crop response to applied fertilizer as a result of uneven fertilizer application.