 The peak Leaf Area Index of cotton at 110 days after sowing in the fields of the footprint area of the tower ranged from 2.29–3.14. During the crop season the cumulative Net Ecosystem Exchange (NEE) was negative with a value of –392 g C/m indicating that rainfed cotton was a sink for CO2 to the extent of 3.9 tonnes/ha. Further the Ratio of cumulative Ecosystem Respiration (R eco)/ Gross Primary Productivity (GPP) was approximately 63%. Pusa-farm sun fridge for storage of perishables Pusa-Farm Sun Fridge (FSF)- an initial link in cold chain for perishables has the potential to benefit 90 million smallholder farmers in India, as these can be self- built by farmers from locally available materials and do not need electrical supply or batteries for cooling. The structure of size 3 m× 3 m × 3 m and 2 tonnes capacity uses 12 solar panels @ 415 W each, in series-parallel circuit, to power 1.5 tonnes refrigeration capacity. The innovative design features in the Pusa-FSF are water battery for night time cooling and a solar sensing system which can match the demand of the refrigeration system with the available sunlight successfully. Its mesh and MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 103 wetted-fabric walls with low cost styrofoam panels insulation keeps the structure cold through the combined effects of evaporative cooling and solar refrigeration. Pusa-FSF could achieve daytime temperatures as low as ~4–6°C and night time temperatures below 10°C, when the daily ambient maximum temperature reaches approximately 45°C. This facility offers smallholder farmers inexpensive access to cold storage even without electrical connection and improves their control over the marketing of their crops to fetch better prices. Soil Moisture Indicator ICAR-SBI team has developed a handy and user friendly electronic based Soil Moisture Indicator (SMI) to schedule irrigation for saving precious irrigation water. Evaluation of the SMI in participatory action research with farmers indicated that SMI is better than tensiometer. Farmers’ experience showed that scheduling irrigations using SMI could save considerable quantity of irrigation water per ha per year in sugarcane crop without compromising yield. The team bagged First Prize in the National Water Awards-2019 for “Soil Moisture Indicator and its application in irrigation water management” in the Best Research/ Innovation/adaptation of New Technology for Water Conservation category by Ministry of Jal Shakti, Department of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation, Government of India. Mechanized sett treatment for sugarcane Team at ICAR-SBI, Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu has developed and validated mechanized delivery of fungicides through sett treatment device to manage red rot, smut and wilt effectively in sugarcane. Now sett treatment device has been upgraded with provision of heat treatment and its efficacy against grassy shoot and smut diseases was validated.