 Plant multiplication including in vitro multiplication, systems of cultivation, multitier cropping, photosynthetic efficiencies of crops at different tiers, rainfall, humidity, temperature, light and soil pH on crop growth and productivity, high density planting, nutritional requirements, physiological disorders, role of growth regulators and macro and micro nutrients, water requirements, fertigation, moisture conservation, shade regulation, weed management, training and pruning, crop regulation, maturity indices, harvesting. Post-harvest processing practices. GAP and GMP in plantation crop production and processing. Cost benefit analysis, organic farming, management of drought, precision farming. Crops: Coffee and tea, Cashew and cocoa, Rubber, palmyrah and oil palm, Coconut and arecanut, Wattle and betel vine. Role of commodity boards and developmental institutions in plantation crops. Unit 2. Production Technology of Spice Crops Introduction, importance of spice crops-historical accent, present status - national and international, future prospects, botany and taxonomy, climatic and soil requirements, commercial varieties/hybrids, site selection, layout, sowing/planting times and methods, seed rate and seed treatment, nutritional and irrigation requirements, intercropping, mixed cropping, intercultural operations, weed control, mulching, physiological disorders, harvesting, post-harvest management 45 and processing practices, plant protection measures and seed planting material and micro- propagation, precision farming, organic resource management, organic certification, quality control, pharmaceutical significance and protected cultivation of: Black pepper, cardamom, Clove, cinnamon and nutmeg, allspice, Turmeric, ginger and garlic, Coriander, fenugreek, cumin, fennel, ajwain, dill, celery, Tamarind, garcinia and vanilla. Role of commodity boards in spices development. Unit 3. Production Technology of Medicinal and Aromatic Crops Herbal industry, WTO scenario, Export and import status, Indian system of medicine, Indigenous Traditional Knowledge, IPR issues, Classification of medicinal crops, Systems of cultivation, Organic production, Role of institutions and NGO’s in production, GAP in medicinal crop production. Production technology, Post-harvest handling – Drying, Processing, Grading, Packing and Storage, processing and value addition; GMP and Quality standards in herbal products. Influence of biotic and abiotic factors on the production of secondary metabolites, Regulations for herbal raw materials, Phytochemical extraction techniques. Aromatic industry, WTO scenario, Export and import status, Indian perfumery industry, History, Advancements in perfume industry. Production technology, Post-harvest handling, Distillation methods, advanced methods, Solvent extraction process, TLC, HPLC, GC, steam distillation, Perfumes from non-traditional plants, Quality analysis, Value addition, Aroma chemicals, quality standards and regulations.