 In Asia, the occurrence of apple leaf blotch miner has been already reported and recorded in Armenia, China, Iran, Russia, Kazakhstan, Turkey, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan. The invasive soft scale insect, Fistulococcus pokfulamensis (Hemiptera: Coccidae) has been reported initially on an umbrella tree–Heptapleurum actinophyllum during 2022 in Bengaluru, but now it has moved to other host plants like mango, jamun and blueberry, causing significant damage on these crops both in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The strategies for preventing further spread and management advisories for these two new invasive pests were worked out and forwarded to the Directorate of Plant Protection, Quarantine and Storage (DPPQ and S), Government of India for further necessary action. Damage caused by apple leaf blotch miner: a. Damaged apple tree; b. Larva inside the blotch; c. Adult male and female moths Field appearance of Fistulococcus pokfulamensis: a. Females covered in a dusting of white wax; b. Females after removal of wax duct Dynamic response of flavonoid biosynthesis pathway genes in C. platycarpus under continued herbivory; Response of H. armigera larvae to artificial diet feeding assay incorporated with water-soluble flavonoids to 38.54%), root length (15.64% to 53.76%) and plant height (5.66 to 30.49%) and reduced wilt and root rot diseases incidence (5.66 to 26.49%) and increased grain yield (10-12%) in pigeonpea, chickpea and lentil under field condition. A Systemic Acquired Resistance (SAR) inducer molecule was developed as coated nano formulation for smart delivery in plants, for prolonged release and tested for its plant immune inducer property in field against red rot, smut and wilt diseases of sugarcane. In field experiments, application of nano formulation significantly reduced red rot, smut and wilt incidences by 79.4%, 80.8% and 75.8%, respectively over pathogen inoculated control. The ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 77 CROP MANAGEMENT formulation applied field also registered significantly higher germination, number of millable canes and yield over pathogen inoculated control. A low-cost technology for mass production of white grub specific Bt isolate Bt-62 was developed using agro-industrial by-products and sugarcane products like juice, jaggery, trash, and by-products such as bagasse and molasses. The liquid formulation using dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) 0.5% and glycerol 0.5% retained maximum number of colonies for more than 300 days. Toxicity of the product observed in laboratory studies and efficacy demonstrated in field trials against H. serrata illustrated that the formulation can be mass-produced and used for the control of the white grub. Seasonal patterns and forecasting rice pest in coastal ecosystem: Spatial and temporal distribution maps were generated for yellow stem borer (YSB) damage, leaf folder (LF) damage and Brown Planthopper (BPH) over six villages, viz.