 The highest isolation records with primary association of Leptospira inadai infection in man and animals were noted. The need to develop local expertise in molecular typing is stressed to understand this emerging disease. BLOOD PROTISTA Epidemiological studies on prevalence of bovine tropical theileriosis revealed that the disease is endemic, however, its epidemiology has not been adequately studied in the Western Himalayan Region. Sero-prevalence studies were conducted by using indirect fluorescent antibody test (IFAT) and single dilution enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (SD-ELISA). The overall prevalence of Theileria infection in cattle of Himachal Pradesh was 4.55% as detected by blood smear examination. IFAT detected 15.77% antibodies to Theileria and SD-ELISA detected 26.58%. No sex bias was observed in the prevalence of Theileria infection when detected by blood smear examination and IFAT, but females showed higher seroprevalence by SD-ELISA. The variation in Theileria infection in three agro-climatic zones within Himachal Pradesh was not found significant by the sero-diagnostic tests, but the cattle of lower hills showed higher positivity by blood smear examination. The infection was prevalent more in exotic and their crosses than that in the indigenous cattle. Haemaphysalis bispinosa, a tick known to transmit Theileria orientalis was widely prevalent, whereas Hyalomma species, the tick known to transmit T. annulata was rare. The prevalence ● ●● ●● Foot-and-mouth disease virus outbreak strains were sequenced ● National Repository of FMD virus includes 950 well characterized field isolates ● Milk based ELISA kits developed for screening bovine brucellosis, and IBR ● Recombinant competitive ELISA kit developed for rinderpest sero- surveillance ● State modules of india.admas.epitrak developed ● Epidemiological aspects of leptospirosis are being studied ● Prevalence of bovine tropical theileriosis is being studied ● Cattle tick survey covering Rajasthan, Haryana and Himachal Pradesh was conducted ● Vaccine developed for haemorrhagic septicaemia ● Combine vaccine being developed for HS and FMD, and pig pasteurellosis and FMD ● Identification of bluetongue virus- positive animals possible through NS 3 primer pair in any given animal population ● Test developed for detection of anthelmintic resistance in Haemonchus contortus ● Urea spray on pasture reduced larval recovery from pasture ● Nematophagous fungi, viz. Duddingtonia flagrans and Arthrobotrys oligospora isolated from sheep faeces ● Diagnostic procedure for PPR virus detection developed ● PPR vaccine gave immunity up to 18 months ● Ranikhet disease vaccine found useful in birds ● EDS 76 vaccine developed for quails ● One case of glanders reported in Uttar Pradesh LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 103 of infection was more in organized farms as compared to cattle kept by individual farmers.