 DYSRHU, Venkataramannagudem 3. AAU, Jorhat 4. BCKY, Kalyani 5. BAU, Ranchi 6. CCSHAU, Hisar 7. UUHF, Bharsar 8. IGKV, Raipur 9. IIHR, Bengaluru 10. JNKVV, Jabalpur 11. KAU, Thrissur 12. MPUAT, Udaipur 13. MPKV, Rahuri 14. NDUAT, Ayodhya 15. OUAT, Bhubaneswar 16. PDKV, Akola 17. BAU, Islampur 18. DRPCAU, Pusa 19. RVSKVV, Mandsaur 20. TNAU, Coimbatore 21. UBKV, Kalimpong 22. YSPUHF, Solan 23. CAU, Pasighat 24. AU, Jodhpur 25. BUAT, Banda 26. SKUAST, Kashmir • ICAR-DMAPR, Anand (Headquarters) Indian Horticulture 6 bedrooms, one air-conditioned dormitory with nine beds, a non-AC Driver’s room, a well-equipped dining hall and a kitchen. y Directorate has a well-established library with international and national journals, books and proceedings. Services y Consultancy on production of quality medicinal and aromatic plants, technologies/ processes for extraction of bioactive principles, innovative formulations of different bioactive natural products and other aspects related to MAPs. y Contract services such as testing of chemicals/ products, soil test, plant analysis etc. y Providing quality planting materials of medicinal and aromatic plants. Model nursery y ICAR-DMAPR has hi-tech nursery with automated temperature, ventilation, light and water facilities available for mass multiplication of medicinal and aromatic plants. y Standardized the propagation technology such as tissue culture, grafting, cutting and through seed for Medicinal and Aromatic plants. high-yielding varieties in important medicinal plants like ashwagandha, isabgol and kalmegh. Ashwgandha (Withania somnifera L. Dunal) Vallabh Ashwagandha-1: High dry root yield of 589.4 kg/ha with orange-coloured berries suitable for cultivation in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Uttar Pradesh and Haryana. Hi-tech nursery Vallabh Ashwgandha-1 Lab-to-Land y Conducting training /workshop programme for farmers, students and other stakeholders on need and demand basis on various aspects of MAPs. y Promoting cultivation of medicinal and aromatic plants through field demonstration and awareness programme. Professional society y Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Association of India (MAPAI) has headquarters at ICAR-DMAPR, Anand. The Director, ICAR-DMAPR is the President of MAPAI. MAPAI conducts seminars/conferences in emerging areas of MAPs. It also publishes an Open Access Journal of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (OAJMAP). Varieties Developed by the ICAR-DMAPR ICAR-DMAPR, Anand has recently developed Isabgol (Plantago ovata) Vallabh Isabgol-1: High yielding medium duration (120-125 days) variety. The mean seed yield of Vallabh Isabgol-1 is 10.3 q/ha as compared to 8.3 q/ha of GI-2. Suitable for cultivation in all Isabgol growing areas. Vallabh Isabgol-2: An early maturing variety (100 days) with higher seed yield of 1104.47 kg/ha (higher yield by 9.94% than check) and moderately resistant to Downey mildew. Suitable for cultivation in all Isabgol growing areas.