 Better plant growth and a higher percentage of fruit set. 5. Premium quality fruit production with bigger export quality size and higher TSS. 6. Productivity increases by 45-50%. 7. Better shelf life. For further information, please write to: 1Principal Scientist (Horticulture), ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Tripura Centre, Lembucherra 799 210, Tripura E-mail: biswajitsom_dr@yahoo.co.in, Biswajit.Das@icar.gov.in Head Numbers or Unit Rate (Approx.) ₹/Unit Amount (₹ Lacs) Field preparation and pit digging 1 ha 50,000.00 0.50 Weed mat (1.5 × 100 m) 64 Nos. 25.00/m2 2.50 Plants + transportation 45,000 5.00 2.25 Fertilizer and manures, irrigation, mulching etc. 1 ha 150,000.00 1.50 Cultural operations, foliar sprays and harvesting, etc./year 1 ha 1.25 1.25 Total 8.00 January–February 2024 9 Tendu: An Underutilized Wild Fruit Diospyrus melanoxylon Roxb., is commonly known as tendu, belonging to the family Ebenaceae which is endemic to the Indian subcontinent. It is an underutilized edible fruit and is the most important fruit of Central India (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Odisha and some parts of Uttar Pradesh) and forest regions. It is evergreen or deciduous in nature depending upon its habitat. The paper discusses the general properties of Tendu and its importance. D IOSPYRUS melanoxylon Roxb., is an underutilized edible fruit and it is known as Tendu (Uttar Pradesh), Kendu tree (Orissa, Jharkhand and West Bengal), temburini (Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh), karai (Tamil Nadu), Kari (Kerala), Tembru (Gujarat), Abnus (Telugu) and East Indian Ebony or Coromandel Ebony (English). The generic name Diospyrus is derived from the Greek word ‘Dios’ means divine and ‘Pyrus’ means fruit belonging to the family Ebenaceae. The species name melanoxylon is Greek in origin meaning dark wood. This fruit is native to India and Sri Lanka and is one of the most important fruits of Central India and forest regions as it is the main source of income for the local people and tribal communities. It is widely distributed throughout India such as Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Bihar, Jharkhand, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Rajasthan. It is also found on a small scale in Karnataka, Kerala and Tamil Nadu. It is a medium-sized, subtropical deciduous or evergreen tree which grows up to 25 m in height. It is deciduous in dry regions for a short time in hot summer (May-June) whereas; in moist regions, it is evergreen. It is tolerant to frost and drought but sensitive to water logging conditions. The bark of this tree is pelican in colour, exfoliating in rectangular scales. The leaves are arranged simply opposite and (or) alternate, and the length of the leaf varies up to 35 cm long. The leaves are tomentose on both sides at young phase, becoming glabrous on above side when fully grown. It bears three types of flowers i.e., pistilate, staminate and hermaphrodite but sometimes dioecious exists.