1% Bavistin at 10 days interval were effective to extend the shelf-life of fruits harvested with 8–10 mm stalks of mango Chausa and Mallika. Modified atmosphere storage in 400-gauge sealed polybags at 13.5°C extended the storage life up to 19.33 days in Karpooravalli and 29 days in Poovan bananas. Hot-water treatment at 46°C for 30 minutes coupled with storage in sealed polybags of 150-gauge along with ethylene scrubber increased the storage life of Rasthali banana up to 39 days. The technologies of banana fruits and flowers for pickle, banana flour based products like health drink, baby food and banana biscuits have been standardized. Technology pertaining to mechanized sorting, waxing, washing and packing in corrugated boxes in addition to degreening and storage to improve shelf-life of fruits has been developed. A low-cost evaporative cool chamber on a farm scale has also been developed. Storage of Nagpur mandarins at sub-optimum temperature showed that intermittent warming produced better colour development and fruits stored at 3–4°C (one week) + 20°C (one week) recorded highest colour index after 60 days. Physiological weight loss was significantly higher in acid POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT IN POTATO The modified improved heap structures developed at CPRI campus Modipuram resulted in reducing storage losses in Kufri Bahar (17.0–9.83%) and in Kufri Jyoti (15.0–7.08%) compared to unimproved heaps. Lowest accumulation of sugars was observed in Kufri Chipsona 2 with storage at 10°C and treatment with CIPC even after 4 months of storage. Accumulation of reducing sugars was also high in tubers stored under CO2 environment resulting in dark coloured chips. Fastest dormancy break was observed in tubers stored at 15% CO2 concentration (24 days) followed by 20% (47 days) compared to the control (7 days). Best results were obtained in suppressing sprout growth when tubers were treated with carvone. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 71 lime fruits packed without vented polyethylene liner as compared to fruits packed with polyethylene liner without affecting the juice content irrespective of wax treatments and TSS increased with extension of storage period. In post-harvest management, SO2 injury to grapes stored at 0–0.5°C, could be reduced by one or two pre-harvest spraying with Trichoderma harzianum isolate 5R, given 20 or 20 ± 3 days intervals and packing them with 2.3 g Na2S2O5 in a 5 kg box. Pre-harvest spraying of Trichoderma has reduced the percentage of rotten berries, fallen berries and fungal growth on pedicle and retained freshness of grapes on 9th day in shelf after storage at 0–0.5°C. Pre- harvest intervals for methomyl, carbendazim and mancozeb were found to be 13, 50 and 48 days respectively for recommended dose spraying and 18, 60 and 60 days for double dose spraying. The Trichoderma harzianum was also found to have superior effect in degrading the residues on grape berries.