 The search terms utilized in the study included ‘adaptation strategies,’ ‘climate change impact,’ ‘climate-smart agriculture,’ ‘climate resilient,’ ‘drought management,’ ‘sustainable agriculture,’ ‘climate change adaptation,’ and ‘climate change risk mitigation,’ among others. Details of the search strategy are pre­ sented in Fig. 2. The literature search, conducted on December 19, 2022, focused exclusively on articles and reviews in English published from 1994 to 2022, offering a comprehensive snapshot of relevant literature up to that date. A search was conducted in both databases using the outlined search strategy (Fig. 2), yielding 506 records from Scopus and 341 records from Web of Science, respectively. The bibliographical data were retrieved by extracting Scopus data in the form of ’.bib’ format and Web of Science data in the form of ’.txt’ format. 2.2. Merging and cleaning of retrieved data Upon retrieving bibliographical data from both Scopus and Web of Science databases, records were merged into a single dataset using RStudio software [25]. To ensure data quality, any duplicate records from the merged dataset were removed, resulting in 602 records. Each record was then screened, and articles irrelevant to the study, based on pre-defined inclusion and exclusion criteria, were removed. This screening process reduced the number of records to 572. Finally, data cleaning was performed to eliminate in­ consistencies, errors, or missing information from the dataset. The resulting dataset contained only high-quality records relevant to the research question, preparing it for further analysis. Fig. 2. Search query and strategy. B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 4 2.3. Analysis of the data To glean insights from the dataset, a bibliometric analysis was conducted using Biblioshiny [26] and VoSviewer software [27]. Utilizing Biblioshiny enabled the analysis of the performance of the most prolific authors, institutions, journals, citation patterns, and countries in the domain. This helped answer research question RQ1. Additionally, VoSviewer software was used to perform cluster analysis and identify themes and subthemes in the domain. Each cluster was then discussed in detail, considering the major findings and suggestions of the papers within the cluster. This approach allowed for answering research question RQ2, granting a deeper understanding of the key themes and research areas in the field and providing insights for future research in the domain. The major trending topics identified are used to answer research question RQ3, supplying a comprehensive review on trending topics by iden­ tifying all cited articles on each topic. By employing this data analysis approach, a comprehensive understanding of current research trends, knowledge gaps, and future directions in the field of climate-resilient and sustainable agriculture in India can be achieved.