 y Padmanaban reported that Beauvria bassiana and Metarrhizium anisopliae have shown efficacy as control agent of the pest. Spray either of this at 20 g per lit of water or 5 ml/l covering the leaf axil and pseudostem at 5 months after planting. y Beauveria bassiana (1×107 spores/ml) spray at 5th, 6th and 7th month after planting + stem trapping shows better results against banana stem weevil. y Predatory ants such as big headed ant and Tetramonrium spp. are important predators of the banana weevil. y Two species of earwigs feeding on larvae and pupae are reported from China. There is a report of an acarine mite parasitizing larvae and adults. Release of an ectoparasitic mite, Uropodia sp. on adult weevil had been tried for its control with limited success. Banana corm weevil [Cosmopolites sordidus, Curculinidae, Coleoptera] Damage symptoms: Newly planted banana fields are easily susceptible to infestation. Infestation begins at the base of the outermost leaf-sheath and in injured tissues at the lower part of the pseudostem. Initially the young grubs make several longitudinal tunnels in the surface tissue until they are able to penetrate to adjacent inner leaf-sheaths. Then they bore into the pseudostem base and rhizome/corm, but also into the base of suckers and into roots. The young grub tunnels into the base of suckers, roots and rhizome/corm. Infested plant shows yellowing and withering of leaves, slowed plant growth, root destruction, reduced fruit production. Young infested suckers often wither and fail to develop. Sustainable management: y Use clean planting material. This can be done by selecting vigourous healthy planting material from weevil free plants or from tissue culture. y Suckers should be pruned periodically and infested pseudostems must be removed from the field and destroyed. y Banana stumps kept in the field after harvest must be removed and destroyed as they serve as weevil refuges and breeding sites. y Pare (trim) dead parts from the corm and remove outer leaf sheaths. Immerse suckers in hot water (54°C) for 20 min or dip suckers in 20% neem solution overnight and plant as soon as possible. y Hot water treatment of corms at 52 to 55°C for 15 to 27 minutes. y Deep plant suckers (45-60 cm) in fertile soils at recommended spacing to delay infestation. y Dig out and remove old corms, weeds and trash around banana stools to reduce weevil sheltering sites. y Spread mulch away from banana stool leaving about 60 cm ring from the stool to prevent the roots growing towards the surface where they can be attacked by weevils. y Ensure proper fertilization and free from weeds at all times. y Crop rotation with non host crops like paddy and sugarcane. y Cut and remove the outer layers of rhizome and sundry for 3-4 days after smearing it with cow dung slurry and ash. y Avoid growing Robusta, Karpooruvally, Malbhog, Champa and Adukkar and grow less susceptible varieties like Poovan, Kadali, Kunnan, Poomkalli.