 Do you wish to have a personal discussion with the Assessment Commit1ee (Please indicate 'Yes' or 'No'). In the absence of any indication, it will be presumed that the Technical Personnel does not want to come for personal discussion. (For use of Reviewers only) 3. Is the supplementary material furnished by the Reviewee correct to the best of your knowledge? ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 4. Do you generally agree with the assessment and projections made by the Reviewee in the supplementary material? Date Signature of the Reviewer(s) Name .. (In Block letters) Designation 5. Recommendations of the Director (in the case of employees oflnstitutes )/Secretary, !CAR (in the case of the employees of the Headquarters and/or the Centra!ly Administered Programme). Date. Signature .. Name ... (In Block letters) Designation (Introduced vide ICAR letter No.7-4n9-Per.lII dated 6 June J 979) " '" [CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES APPENDIX VIII Merit Promotion on the Basis of Assessment in Technical Service-Proforma for Submission of the Recommendations of the Assessment Committee for Approval of the Appointing Authority I. Name of the officer 2. Service particulars of the Assessee: (a) Date of entry into lCAR service (b) Present posUgrade held and since when. (c) Scaleofpay (d) Present pay with date of next increment ( e) Whether temporary/quasi-permanent /permanent 3. Whether medical examination was conducted at the time of entry into !CAR service? 4. Has the character and antecedents of the officer been verified? 5. Has the officer been reprimanded or awarded any punishment under conduct rules during the period for which the assessment is being made? 6. If so, the extent of the penalty awarded? 7. Whether the officer is cleared from vigilance angle? 8. Whether the period 1reated as "Dies non" If any, has been taken into accoun1 while computing 5 years period for assessment? JCAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 9. The designation and the scale of pay in the next higher grade for which the officer is being considered/assessed JO. Whether the officer fulfills the educational and other requirements prescribed for the post for which the officer is being assessed? 11. Period of assessment and the date from which the assessment benefit is to be given 12. Whether the officer has been assessed previously, ifso, the results of assessment may be indicated I 3. Whether Assessment Committee has been constituted in accordance with the prescribed procedure and its composition conformed to the principles laid down for the purpose? 14. Has the case been considered by DPC/ Assessment Committee duly constituted for the purpose? 15. Recommendation of the DPC/assess- ment committee 16. Appointing authority. (!CAR letter No.2( I )/84-WS/Per.