 54 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series PRAKRITI AUR PRYAVARAN Anil Prakash Joshi Dedicated efforts of the ICAR scientists, farmers and the government policies have made India a food secured nation. Inclusive growth of the community by economy and ecology through “Local need, meet locally” has become popular across the mountains and other regions. Local farmers are encouraged to grow fruits, vegetables, grains and spices specific to the locations for the local consumption. This has been a major step to make the rural India economically independent. It is high time that along with Gross Domestic Product (GDP), which indicates economic health, the country and the states should collect data on forests, water sources, quality of air and soil to measure the Gross Environmental Product (GEP) to know the health of our ecosystem. Government of Uttarakhand is working on the GEP for the state. This is the first time in the world when Annual Ecological Growth would also be measured along with the economic growth. Gross Ecosystem Product (GEP) aims at specific indicators to measure total economic value of all ecosystem products and services. The GEP is the total value of the final ecosystem goods and services supplied annually for human well- being in a region. It can be measured in terms of biophysical value and monetary value. Ecosystems measured include Dr Anil Prakash Joshi is an Indian green-cover activist. He is the founder of the Himalayan Environmental Studies and Conservation Organisation (HESCO). He has dedicated himself to resource-based rural development for almost 36 years and he focuses on the economic independence of the rural India through community empowerment. 55 Sustainable Agriculture natural ecosystems such as forests, grassland, wetland, desert, freshwater, ocean and artificial systems based on the natural processes like farmland, pastures, aquaculture farms urban green land, etc. Climate change impacts are very alarming a massive chunk of ice broke off of the Antarctica in May 2021, which is the largest iceberg of the world. Since 2000, the world’s glaciers have lost on an average 267 billion metric tons of ice every year and the rate at which these are melting is accelerating consistently. These glaciers are the source for our 70 per cent fresh water demand. The major reason of melting of these glaciers is global warming. The only way to slow rapid glacial melting is to contain global warming. Global warming can be reduced by using renewable energy; by reducing, reusing and recycling; by reducing water and food wastage. Key takeaway Adopt organic farming to protect the environment for posterity. 56 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series FPC MOVEMENT CHALLENGES AND WAY FORWARD Vilas Shinde A Farmer Producer Company (FPC) can be formed by any 10 or more primary producers or by two or more producer institutions, or by the contribution of both. An FPC is a hybrid between cooperative societies and private limited companies.