 Innovative food with Isabgol husk: Innovative food items were manufactured with Isabgol husk like cookies, cake, brownie, crackers, biscuits, muffins and bread. These products are gluten free made with natural sugar having high fibre and no food additive, eggless. Establishment of Medi-Hub, Technology Business Incubator Medi-Hub Technology Business Incubator (Medi- Hub, TBI) is an Agri-Business Incubator in the field of medicinal and aromatic plants established at ICAR- DMAPR, Anand funded by ICAR. The services provided by Medi-Hub, TBI includes technology consultation, business consultation, mentoring and networking, infra facilities, access to funding and knowledge sharing to foster business development. So far 30 incubatees having novel business idea in medicinal and aromatic plants have been supported under Medi-Hub. A total of 41 trainings were organized during last three years. Cookies (3% husk) Brownie (2.5% husk; 15% Ragi; no added sugar Cake (3% husk) Crackers (5% husk) Biscuits (2.5% husk) Shri M. Sankara Rao is a marginal farmer, belonging to a remote village of Naiduvalasa of Rambadrapuram Mandal of Vizianagaram district in Andhra Pradesh. He is an ex-trainee of KVK, Vizianagaram. Having gained knowledge and skill in nursery, he established nursery unit with “mini-shade net” under the technical guidance of KVK faculty. He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of ` 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net Profitable Nursery through “Mini-Shade Net” Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 September–October 2023 11 Prospects Isabgol: A potential medicinal plant with commercial and trade value Isabgol (Plantago ovata) belonging to family Plantaginaceae is an important medicinal herb that has been used in health care for several years in India. It is now used all over the world for its medicinal properties. In India, it has been introduced and cultivated in North Gujarat and adjoining parts of Western Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. However, the crop is spreading in non-traditional parts of the country such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. More than 90% of the Indian produce is exported all over the world and is an important foreign exchange earning commodity.