Ill shall be eligible for assessment promotion to T-6 grade after completing IO years of service in T-5 grade provided such technical personnel are possessing the qualifications prescribed under 1his order for direct recruitment to Category II (T-3). However, such Technical personnel in T-5 grade who do not possess the qualificati<ms prescribed under this order for direct recruitment to Category II (T-3) shall nol be eligible for further assessment promotion to Category Ill of the T«hnical Services. (iii) Since a revised single pay scale of Rs 10,000-15,200, by way of replacement of their erstwhile pre-revised pay scales as per the Vth Central Pay Commission, has been attached to the existing technical grades of T-7 and T-8. these two grades have been redesignated as uniform and single grade as T(7-8) in the given pay scale of Rs 10,000-15,200, and the movement of technical personnel existing in these grades has been approved co be regulated under the assessment system to the IC'i\R HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES next higher grade ofT-9 of Technical service (pay scale of Rs 12,000-16,500) in the following manner. (a) Those technical personnel who are working in T-7 grade (Rs 10,000-15,200) and have not been assessed for T-8 grade would be eligible for assessment to T-9 (Rs 12,000- 16,500) grade after completion of 7 years of service in T-7 grade. (b) Those technical personnel who have already been placed in T-8 grade (Rs 10,000-15,200) will be assessed for T-9 (Rs 12,000-16,500) after completion of 5 years of service in this grade ofT-8. (iv) The minimWll essential qualifications for direct recruitment of technical personnel in Category I, II and III at the entry grades thereto would be as per the following model qualifications irrespective of the functional group. (a) Category I, matriculate wilh at least one year Certificate from recognized institution in the relevant field; (b) Category II, bachelor's degree in the relevant field or equivalent qualifications from a recognized university; (c) Category lll, master's degree in the relevant field or equivalent qualifications from a recognized university. Based upon the above minimum essential model qualifications prescribed for different categories, the specific qualifications covering the relevant fields, location-specific requirements of the posts as well as the desirable specialization wherever required in case of posts of different functional groups should be finalized in case of direct recruitment in consultation with the concerned subject-matter divisions. (v) The existing assessment system based upon the CCR gradings and records of performance of personnel as reflected in the as- sessment reports/proforma as well as the prescribed benchmark for assessment promotionsof'Good' for Cat.I and II and 'Very Good' for Cat.