 Techniques for nondestructive determination of oilin oilseeds, characterization of quality of foodgrains, drought tolerance in wheat and patho-physiology of mycoplasmal diseases have been widely used for developing new varieties and management practices. Accomplishment. . . @ Development of safe gamma irradiation technologies for insect disinfestation of rice and pulses, and for storage life extension of fruits and vegetables such as tomato, button mushroom, onion and mango. CENTRE OF BIOSYSTEMATICS FOR RESEARCH ON BIODIVERSITY OF AGRICULTURALLY IMPORTANT MICRO- PHYTOTRON CENTRE, ORGANISMS, NEMATODES AND INSECTS A NATIONAL FACILITY The country’s oldest her- barium, the Herbarium Cryptogamae_ Indiae Orientalis (HCIO) of fungi established in 1905 houses 42,000 collec- tions; the National Pusa Insect Collection (NPIC) 440,000 collections; the To tackle the many prob- lems posed by the envi- ronment and to acceler- ate the pace of research, the National Facility of Phytotron is being estab- lished at the IARI that becomes the select few Indian Type Culture Col- institutes the world over lection (ITCC) 4,000 fungal specimens and the National to study life responses in controlled environment simu- Nematode Collection of India (NNCI) 4,000 wet speci- lated in closed chambers. In all, there will be 22 Environ- mens. ment Controlled Plant Growth Chambers and 10 green- The Centre provides quick identification service for char- houses permitting more than 250 permutations and acterization of fungi, insects, nematodes, bacteria and combinations of photoperiod, temperature, lighting, hu- viruses. It is accredited with reporting of 120 genera of midity and carbon dioxide concentration. fungi, insects and nematodes; several hundred new : } i jecti i : ietal species, and with developing synontic keys and mono- The objectives defined are: plant and varietal response to graphs for quick identification. Fungi of glassfibre yarn — multiple SHS: controls eer idan regulating a new recipe for avoiding fungi has earned the Indian host-parasite/host-symbiotic relationship; synchronizing Patent Number 27167. flowering; acclimatization of in vitro produced plants and response of crops to elevated CO, concentration, tem- perature, and available water, their interaction and incidence of disease and pest. Fungi of India, an authentic referral source, has been updated in 1992. The Centre has also generated an electronic database. WATER TECHNOLOGY CENTRE Almost the same time the inter-disciplinary approach to water management gained recognition globally, late Dr B.P. Pal set up the Water Technology Centre (WTC) at the IARI, New Delhi, in 1970 with partial financial assistance from the Ford Foundation and technical collaboration with the University of California, Davis, USA that housed the first ever such facility internationally.