 Solar energy integrated vertical autoclave was designed for efficient energy, water and space management during spawn sterilization. These technologies have been transferred to rural youth and woman entrepreneurs and have resulted in the upliftment of their economy. To ensure that the availability of benefits of nutrition through mushroom various value-added products viz. Mushroom fortified ‘Arka Rasam powder’, seven variants of Arka mushroom chutney powders with high nutrition were developed and licensed to 5 entrepreneurs. The production technology of iron-fortified mushroom was developed (patent pending) and the iron bioavailability from the product was studied in animal model system. The iron content of iron fortified increased by 150% (33.8 mg/100 dry wt.) over control. Its bioavailability was 21.68%, which can play a very pivotal role in mitigating iron malnutrition. The delivery system for the iron-fortified mushroom has also beendeveloped. Consuming 10 g of iron-fortified oyster mushroom powder may provide 36-76% bioavailable iron depending the age and sex of the person. The ready to fruit (RTF) bag technology was developed to help women and SHGs to cultivate mushrooms for household consumption and as a skill for additional income. A multifuel boiler was also designed and developed for substrate sterilization suitable for rural areas. An outdoor mushroom growing chamber was designed and developed to help rural farmers with space and resource constraints to grow mushroom. The unit was also integrated with solar energy. The use of paddy stray in mushroom production indirectly reduces the straw burning. Twenty- six mechanized spawn production labs have been established in public and private sector in 14 states to alleviate the problem of availability of quality spawn, which is the primary requirement of mushroom cultivation. The transfer of technology activities to rural and socially deprived population was carried out through Tribal Sub Plan and NEH funds of ICAR. Spawn production laboratories were established at Saregachi (West Bengal), KVK (Nellore, Andhra Pradesh) and KVK (Mudigere, Karnataka). Training of rural woman and youth in mushroom cultivation, spawn production and value-added products were provided at Tripura and Arunachal Pradesh in 2018. Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 22 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Besides, due to the efforts of ICAR-CIARI, Port Blair, Dr. Nitu Sindhu a woman entrepreneur has not only started mushroom cultivation but has turned spawn producer to cater the need of the 30 mushroom growers in Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Through AICRP- Mushroom project, ICAR-CIARI imparted trainings on mushroom spawn production to the interested progressive farmers for mushroom spawn production to meet out the growing demand of mushroom spawn all over the islands 3.10.