 The disclosure states that ITK was followed by the farmers of Sher Wali of Muktsar district, Punjab. However, the survey revealed that vegetable cultivation system as practised by them was different from the reported ITK Though they cultivated cucurbits particularly the bottle gourd and melons in sandy soil, they did not go in for trenches of reported dimension (6' × 3' × 4'). Also the cultivation was successful due to assured irrigation. However, the vegetable cultivation system as per the ITK could be observed along the major river banks. Hence on-farm trials were conducted in the Ganges river bed near Garh Mukteshwar as farmers from this region are the leading cultivators of vegetables in sands. Their conviction  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Experimenters : and reasoning helped in validation of the ITK during PRA. Dr Baldeo Singh, Principal Scientist, Division of Agril. Extension; Dr A. D. Munshi, Sr. Scientist, Division of Vegetable Crops; Dr R.N.Padaria, Sr. Scientist, and Dr Poonam Sharma, Scientist (S.S.) Division of Agril. Extension, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 METHODOLOGY Location Field study through PRA matrix ranking as well as on-farm trials were conducted in the villages near Garh Mukteashwar, Jyotibaphule-nagar district of Uttar Pradesh PRA and field study Twenty farmers were interviewed using PRA matrix, ranking with four treatments (upland, lowland, mid course and river bank) on nine criteria (soil status, irrigation, seed germination, plant growth, insect pest, yield, cost of inputs, labour and net profit). Matrix ranking for the relative performance of the options with respect to each criterion was done with scoring pattern of 0-10. Extensive cultivation of cucurbit vegetables in riverbeds in South Asia has been reported by More et al. (1998). The main riverbed consists of sand. It is available for cultivation from December to June. The vegetables grown are watermelon, muskmelon, pumpkin, bottle gourd and bitter gourd. Riverbed cultivation started possibly during the Mughal period. Various vegetables and cucurbits were grown in sandy riverbeds after the water level had receded. Though several vegetables are grown, cucurbits have adapted themselves best to riverbed cultivation. In India the main riverbeds where cucurbits are grown occur on the rivers Sabarmati, Vatrat, Panam, Orusung, Mahi, Bans and Tapti in Gujarat; Narmada, Tapti, Tawa and Mohan in Madhya Pradesh; Markheda Ghat and Banas in Rajasthan; Yamuna, Hindon, Sarayu, Ganga, Ghaghra, Tank beds, Sharada, Ramganga and Gomati in Uttar Pradesh. Tungabhdra, Krishna, Pennar, Papagni, Hundri and Sagileru in Andhra Pradesh; Channapatna, Hanganoor and Shinsha in Karnataka; Tapi, Buri, Purna, Vagur, Girna, Mais Bhuikkund, Nirguna, and Kanhan in Maharashtra; Pumba in Kerala; and Ganga, Gandak, Sone, Kosi and Burhi Ganga in Bihar (Anonymous, 1974). Singh (1983) described the cultivation of dessert melons in shifting sand dunes of Rajasthan.