 Unit 3: Statistical Genetics I Statistical analysis of segregation, detection and estimation of linkage. Gene and genotypic frequencies. Random mating and equilibrium in large populations. Disequilibrium due to linkages for two pairs of genes and for sex linked genes. Selection, mutation and migration. Equilibrium between forces in large population. Polymorphism. Fisher’s fundamental theorem of natural selection. Polygenic systems for quantitative characters, Concepts of breeding value, dominance, average effect of gene and epistatic interactions. Unit 4: Statistical Genetics II Genetic variance and its partitioning. Correlation between relatives. Regular system of inbreeding, effects of inbreeding. Genotype and environment interaction, stability parameters. Estimation of heritability, repeatability and genetic correlation. Path coefficient analysis. Heterosis, concepts of general and specific combining abilities. Diallel crosses and line × tester analysis. Response due to selection. Prediction of response to individual, family and combined selections. Construction of selection index. Unit 5: Design of Experiments I Linear models-Random, fixed and mixed effects. Nested and crossed classifications. Gauss-Markoff theorem. Analysis of variance. Principles of design of experiments. Uniformity trials. Completely randomized design. Randomized complete block design. Latin square design. Factorial experiments- 2n and 3n series and asymmetrical factorial experiments, confounding in 2n and 3n experiments, split and strip-plot designs, change over designs. Missing plot techniques. Analysis of covariance. Variance stabilizing transformations. 127 Unit 6: Design of Experiments II Balanced incomplete block designs and their analysis with and without recovery of inter block information. Partially balanced incomplete block designs with two associate classes, lattice designs. Youden square design. Multiple comparison procedures. Fractional replication of symmetrical factorials, confounding in asymmetrical factorial experiments. Response surface designs, second order rotatable designs. Combined analysis of groups of experiments. Sampling in field experiments. Experiments on cultivators’ fields. Unit 7: Sample Surveys I Sampling versus complete enumeration. Concept of probability sampling. Simple random sampling. Stratified sampling, allocation in stratified sampling, choice of strata, construction of strata boundaries and collapsing of strata. Use of auxiliary information in sample surveys, ratio and regression methods of estimation. Systematic sampling. Cluster and multi-stage sampling with equal probability. Unit 8: Sample Surveys II Sampling with unequal probabilities with and without replacement, sampling schemes with inclusion probabilities proportional to size. Unbiased ratio type of estimators, Double sampling, sampling on successive occasions, inverse sampling. Non-sampling errors-sources and classification.