 Wadghane, Sustainability Management Status of Agro-Ecosystems: a Case Study of Sugarcane Farmers in Shevgaon and Paithan (Sub-Districts) of Maharashtra, India, Agricultural Research (2022) 1–10. “In Press,”. [27] OECD, Water use and irrigation in agriculture. Trends and Drivers of Agri- environmental Performance in OECD Countries, OECD Publishing, Paris, 2019. [28] P. Pastore, S. Wani, A. Tyagi, K. Banerjee, Valuing Water in Agriculture to Reward Farmers, Actions in Conservation (2023). [29] S.P. Wani, P. Singh, K. Boomiraj, K.L. Sahrawat, Climate change and sustainable rain-fed agriculture: challenges and opportunities, Agricultural Situation in India 66 (5) (2009) 221–239. [30] A. Narayanamoorthy, Averting water crisis by drip method of irrigation: a study of two water-intensive crops, Indian Journal of Agricultural Economics 58 (3) (2003) 427–437. R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni 

Current Research in Environmental Sustainability 7 (2024) 100255 Available online 8 June 2024 2666-0490/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. This is an open access article under the CC BY-NC license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by- nc/4.0/). Assessing determinants, challenges and perceptions to adopting water-saving technologies among agricultural households in semi-arid states of India Geetha Mohan a,b,*, Lakshmi Narayana Perarapu c, Saroj Kumar Chapagain d, A. Amarender Reddy e, Indrek Melts f, Ranjeeta Mishra b, Ram Avtar g, Kensuke Fukushi b,h a Global Research Centre for Advanced Sustainability Science (GRASS), University of Toyama, Japan b Institute for the Advanced Study of Sustainability, United Nations University, Japan c Adikavi Nannaya University, Rajahmundry, India d Institute for Integrated Management of Material Fluxes of Resources, United Nations University, Germany e ICAR-Centre Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, India f Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Estonian University of Life Sciences, Estonia g Hokkaido University, Sapporo, Japan h Institute for Future Initiatives, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Efficient water conservation micro-irrigation technologies Semi-arid states Resilient Perceptions India A B S T R A C T This study investigates the adoption of water-saving irrigation technologies, specifically drip and sprinklers, within India’s semi-arid states. Utilizing a probit model and data sourced from the India Human Development Survey-II, the research scrutinizes a sample size of 2891 households while engaging in focus group discussions. The findings highlight several key factors significantly impacting technology adoption, including education, caste, employment status, household income, orchard ownership, landholding size, irrigation source, access to irrigation, the Kisan Credit Card scheme, and utilization of electric and diesel pumps.