 Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 editor.farming@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 35 February 2024 Silage bales An emerging enterprise Ajitpal Singh1, Sarvpriya Singh1* and Palwinder Singh1 1Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bathinda, Punjab 151 005 This success story is based on silage unit of Sh. Kulwinder Singh who started selling silage along with dairy business and established a new milestone of success. Keywords: Bales, Fodder, Punjab, Silage I N Punjab, there is a scarcity of green fodder in dry season of the year and even in rainy season; dairy farmers do not get sufficient greens for their cattle during lean period which leads to declined milk yield. Therefore, progressive farmers make silage from surplus green fodder. Most of the dairy farmers in Punjab make silage as per their requirement but there is a risk of spoilage due to high moisture content in silage. Moreover, it is not possible to transport this silage from one place to another when it is in a pit or bunker. However, technological adjustment for packing silage into bales has created opportunities for income generation. At present, many latest machines are used to make silage bales which can be easily transported for sale at distant places or green fodder deficient states. Silage making is a way to provide balanced ration throughout the year at a reasonable price to small and urban dairy farmers. This is an emerging business and self-employment opportunity for farmers. Silage making machines typically make bundles of 100 kg and 500 kg which can be easily transported for sale. Sh. Kulwinder Singh realized the scope of silage making as employment opportunity and immediately contacted KVK Bathinda for training on silage making in 2018. Indian Farming 74 (02): 35-36; February 2024 During training, Sh. Kulwinder Singh learned that silage can be prepared from cereal fodders like jowar and maize. Maize fodder at milking stage with 65% moisture is best for preparation of silage. Firstly, the fodder has to be chaffed and then later the chaffed fodder has to be filled compactly in the pit and its bales can be made with the help of silage baler machine. After 45 days, silage becomes ready for feeding to animals. After training, Kulwinder Singh purchased a silage baler machine in 2019 at a cost of `19.5 lakhs. He also availed subsidy of ` 5.6 lakhs on this machine. He prepared about 12000 bales in 2020 with this automatic silage making machine. To make silage bales in bulk, he bought about 70 acres of fodder maize. Silage preparation was carried out from May to September. He bought green fodder from other farmers at `24000 per acre (Table 1). The cost of maize harvesting was `4500 per acre. The total cost of packing silage was `4.72 per kg. He sold this silage at `5.60 per kg.