 Disease management in mushrooms: Denovo based whole genome sequencing (WGS) of Mycogone perniciosa was completed and a draft genome of 39 Mb obtained. These studies revealed its maximum similarity with Trichoderma spp. Two botanical pesticides namely, Dorisom (Pongamia glabra/ Pongamia pinnata (Karanj tree) and Prabal (Opuntia sp + Oryza sativa) @ 0.1–0.3% concentration were identified for the management of wet bubble disease of button mushroom. K Bitter gourd Watermelon Squash Pumpkin — Narendra Modi We walk together, we move together, we think together, we resolve together and together we take this country forward. 8. Livestock Management ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 76 Nutrition New variety of sorghum fodder, CSV-43 BMR (JAICAR NUTRIGRAZE/SPV 2018) improves performance of growing and lactating buffaloes (IIMR, Hyderabad and CIRB, Hisar collaborative programme): A brown midrib (bmr) sorghum, CSV-43 BMR (JAICAR NUTRIGRAZE/SPV 2018) was developed through pedigree method of breeding at ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad and was evaluated for feeding value at ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes, Hisar was superior in various nutritional qualities. The variety contains less lignin (4.12% ADL), promotes early ruminal fermentation with higher truly degradable dry matter and ruminal fibrolytic enzymes production, and lowers methanogenic archaeal population with reduced methane production as compared to popular MP Chari and MFSH-4 varieties. The buffalo calves fed SPV 2018 fodder had 14% more body weight gain with significant increase in feed efficiency compared to calves fed with CSH 24MF and MP Chari. Feeding trial on lactating buffaloes demonstrated increased daily milk yield (9.64%), 6% fat corrected milk (18.55%) and fat protein corrected milk (11.53%) in comparison to buffaloes fed with MFSH-4 sorghum fodder. The in vivo digestibility of DM, OM, NDF and ADF were higher in buffaloes fed this variety than MFSH-4 fed buffaloes, suggesting better nutrient availability, which was reflected in milk production. The variety has been released and commercialized for the widespread fodder cultivation throughout the country. showed a decrease (44.6%) in methane concentration in exhaled air of supplemented buffaloes with increase in digestibility of feed in comparison to control. Total digestible nutrient (TDN) content of the ration fed to the supplemented buffaloes increased. The daily milk yield, 6% fat corrected milk (FCM) yield and immune response also increased in buffaloes. The study suggests that the supplementation of composite feed additive was effective to reduce enteric methane emissions and improvement in production performance and health status of buffaloes.