 Any index of ultimate agricultural water poverty should contain a mix of hydrological, com­ mercial, social, and climatic indicators. Furthermore, the Agricultural Water Poverty Index (AWPI), developed by Forouzani and Karam, in­ cludes all these indicators [2]. The Agricultural Water Poverty Index is an interdisciplinary tool for assessing the vital components of an agricultural system, with particular reference to resources, access, capacity, use, and environment [4]. The Fig. 1. Location Map. R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 3 evaluated information can be communicated to the actors involved in water management for a sustainable use of water. In terms of vulnera­ bility context and spending, it is needed to improve agricultural water poverty status [3]. It is of particular importance to provide stakeholders with a practical mechanism for accurately determining water status, which is being widely discussed by the AWPI. Ranking communities or farmers according to their agricultural water stress can help decision-makers in planning [2]. Strengths and weaknesses in the various components can be identified for further improvement. Sugarcane is one of the water-intensive crops [30] grown in com­ mand areas of the Jayakwadi Dam, Maharashtra, without a specified reference to the cultivation pattern for the command area cultivation. The aim of the present study is to know the status of AWPI and to pro­ pose a possible scope for improvement of the AWPI components in the command area of the Jayakwadi Dam channels. The present study contributes to knowing the spatial variation and correlation between different components of AWPI along the channels of Jayakwadi dam. It also identifies weaknesses and strengths within the sub-indicators of AWPI components and suggests possible improvements. The review of the literature shows that there is no evidence of an identical study in the present study area. Study area The present study attempts to capture the Agricultural Water Poverty Index (AWPI) in the command area of the Jayakwadi Dam Canals, Maharashtra, India (Fig. 1: Site location map). It falls under Shevgaon (North latitude 19◦21′ 1.32″ and East longitude 75◦13′ 9.75″) and Paithan (North latitude 19◦28 28.20 and East longitude 75◦23 8.89). These are two tehsils (sub-districts) and part of the rain shadow region in western Sahyadri of Maharashtra state with a total geographical area of 1081 km2 and 1426 km2 respectively. The monsoon rainfall in this area is very uncertain, and the annual average rainfall is less than 500 mm [6]. Due to the hot and dry climate for most of the year, farming in this area is often risky. Some parts of the region have irrigation facilities from the Jayakawadi dam through the right and left canals, which support the intensive sugarcane cultivation in the region. Sugarcane is the main crop in the command area of the studied canals.