 Achievable growth in agriculture by states during X Plan (per cent/annum) DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 166 interaction between direct effects and the residual effects of the two sets of treatments. In such experiments, either the treatments do not comprise complete factorial structure or have at most one replication of the complete factorial structure. Evaluation of fodder trees with and without crops under rainfed arable farming for semi arid conditions, revealed that factors affecting the yield of the crops (barley and gram) were—trees (siris, neem, babul and shisham), location of the trees in the plot, direction of the crop on the either side of the tree and distance of the crop from the tree. The impact of siris, neem and shisham was more or less same on the yield of crop. The maximum returns were obtained from the plot consisting of siris and gram (Rs 16,688) followed by babul and gram (Rs 15,676). The stability analysis indicated that gram (grain and straw) was more stable under siris over years as compared to other trees. Land equivalent ratios were calculated for the system. Methodology for forecasting fish production from ponds was developed for fitting non-linear forecast models under heteroscedastic error with auto-correlation. Models were validated and forecast model with 9-month fish weight was best fit for predicting 12th-month fish weight. Non-linear forecast models under heteroscedastic error structure were better than those developed under homoscedastic error structure. Training Activities Training Activities Training Activities Training Activities Training Activities The IASRI, New Delhi, organized training programmes/courses in Computer Application for the officials of SAUs, ICAR Institutes. Training programmes on ‘Sample Surveys related to the Estimation of Area and Production of Fruits and Vegetables’, ‘Quantitative Techniques in Production Economics Research’, ‘Economic Accounts for Agriculture’ and ‘Development of Crop Statistics Methodology’ were conducted. IMPACT OF RESEARCH MANAGEMENT PROCESSES INITIATED UNDER NATP The NATP was launched to introduce major changes in agricultural research and extension in the country and to support agricultural research and extension in high priority areas. The main idea is to improve efficiency of the NARS, so as to: address effectively the national goals of alleviation of household food and nutritional insecurity and poverty, sustaining efficient and diversified growth, and conservation of environment and natural resources. This is being done through initiation of a number of new ‘business processes’, and funding research and extension activities. The study provides a mid-term assessment of the impact of NATP with particular reference to research planning, capacity development, competitive research funding, management issues and early socio-economic impact of promising technologies.