 Moreover, the height of the plant does not reach too high (around 6 feet) and therefore, it’s been advantageous to protect the crop from stormy weather. Further, being tissue cultured all the plants mature at the same time thus also uniformity in fruiting is realized. The best thing about the “G9 tissue culture” banana is it can give up to 3 crop harvests within 27 months whereas other banana types give only two and the time of first fruiting is Precision farming technology in banana Fertigation of 75% N, P2O5, K2O (derived from STCR equation) along with irrigation at 80% ER and polyethylene mulching (100 µ thickness) in combination with foliar spray of (2%) micronutrient Banana Shakti (at fourth, fifth and sixth MAP) and bunch spraying with 2% potassium sulphate (once at male bud removal and again 30 days later) significantly enhanced the yield of banana cv. Grand Naine in Karnataka, Odisha and Andhra Pradesh. The yield enhancement was to a tune of 22 to 44% with B:C ratio of 2.78 to 3.37. The treatment can also significantly advance the harvest by 28 to 40 days, besides improving the fruit quality with respect to TSS and shelf life. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) November–December 2021 29 Manuring schedule: Tissue culture banana requires extensive manuring. It has a high capacity to uptake nutrients from the soil as well as can efficiently convert that uptaken nutrient into production. This is why the following manuring schedule (Table 1) was followed and havoc yield received. From the next 30 day intervals, Table 2. Information on diseases and pest Name of the diseases/ Pests recorded Symptoms Time of appearances Management practice adopted Panama wilt or Fusarium wilt Conspicuous wilting symptoms i.e yellowing of the leaves (lower most showed the symptom first), extend upward. Leaves break easily and hang down. Upon splitting of the pseudostem brown discoloration of the vascular bundle observed. September- October Systemic fungicide Foselty-AL (organophosphorus group) was used as soil drenching. Recommended dose of the chemical was used for thrice. The chemical has both acropetal and basipetal movement that arrest the growth of the fungus in its active vegetative and spore formation stages. Moreover, if it is used as prophylactic spray it helps to boost up the plant immunity system that act as save guard against other diseases in future. Cercospora leaf spot Spindle shaped spot with greyish centre with yellow halo running parallel to veins. Feb-March Removal of the leaf just after first observation. Then sprayed chlorothalonil @ 2 ml/L twice Anthracnose Small, circular, black spots develop on the affected fruits. At the initial stage dark brown patches on immature fruits. Severe infestation may leads to shrivelled and black coloured rotten fruits. June-July Initial infection started but as we covered the whole bunch with gunny back it prevents the further spread of the spores thus new infection.