 Its fruits are oval and fruit weight is 8g. Thar Kranti jamun (Syzygium cuminii) has been developed through selection. Fruits ripen in 75 days from fruit set. Bearing starts in 3rd year, fruit yield 65kg/plant, and suitable for table purpose. Seven hybrids of pomegranate were evaluated during seventh year of planting in mrig bahar and compared with Bhagwa. Maximum number of fruits was in NRCP H-6 (125 /plant) and fruit yield in NRCP H-6 (35.64 kg/plant), followed by NRCP H-14 (33.14 kg/plant). NRCP H-6 has been identified for table purpose. Thar Malti ber is a chance seedling selection, late-maturing type and high fruit- yielding (60kg/plant). Fruits are sweet at green maturity stage and suitable for cultivation under arid conditions. Thar Harit mulberry (Morus sp.) has been developed through selection, fruits are green and sweet. Average fruit yield is 20-25 kg/ plant, suitable for cultivation under hot-arid conditions. Thar Pragati phalsa is dwarf, early, precocious -bearer and suitable for high density planting. Fruits ripen in 60 days from fruit set. The 13, VTLC-20, VTLC-120, with higher yield potential (2.5-2.8 kg/tree/year dry bean yield), optimal canopy both under arecanut and coconut shades, high bean index (1.2) were identified for varietal development. Vegetable crops Arka Samrat tomato was recommended as bacterial wilt resistant tomato hybrid for Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. It has ~100 tonnes/ha yield potential. The plants of Arka Avinash brinjal are Jamun Thar Kranti Mulberry Thar Harit Phalsa Thar Pragati fruit yield is 3-4 kg/plant, fruits are suitable for table and processing purpose. Thar Neelkanth bael has been developed through selection. The fruit yield is 70-75 kg/ plant (8th year) with 1.5 kg fruit weight, suitable for table purpose and processing. The fruits are less affected by sun scald. Plantation crops Coconut, hybrid Kalpa Samrudhi (Dwarf × Tall) and Kalpatharu (high-yielding, premium ball copra, coconut variety), have been released for cultivation in Kerala, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. One areca nut selection, VTL146, with dry kernel yield of 3.91 kg/ palm/year and tender nut yield of 3.26 kg/palm/year, was identified for release. One cocoa hybrid, VTCP1, with average dry bean yield of 3.2 kg/tree/year was recommended. In addition, three cocoa clones, VTLC- Tomato Arka Samrat Arka Khyati (MSH 206): a high-yielding chilli tall and spreading with dark green foliage and long green fruits, resistant to bacterial wilt, green tender fruits with good keeping and cooking quality. If yields ~ 36 tonnes/ha. The plants of Arka Harshitha brinjal are tall and spreading with dark green foliage and fruits, resistant to bacterial wilt, tender fruits with good keeping and cooking quality. yields ~ 40 tonnes/ha.