 1585 Use of stone fruit (bael) to check diarrhoea in animals Control of diarrhoea in cattle and buffalo a paste made from leaves of shisham (Dalbergia sissoo) Treatment of diarrhoea by juice of urhul (Hibiscus rosasinensis) flower in goats 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 3. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 4. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 3. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 4. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 3. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 4. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE SI. Code Title No. No. Experimenting organization 31. 1589 32. 1967 33. 1968 34. 1966 35. 1284 36. 1272 37. 1285 Treatment of diarrhoea in animals (goat and sheep) by pojo Curing of diarrhoea in goats by using takala {Cassia tora) flower juice Wound management in animal by use of leaf extract of ridge gourd (Luffa accutangula)/ekdandi (Tridax procumbents) Use of bhangariya (Eclipta alba) to cure blain in animals Determination of efficacy of pigeon waste in showing estrus symptoms in heifers Treatment of swelling of shoulders in bullocks/bull Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia by kala jeera 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 3. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 4. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 3. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 4. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar 1. Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi VishwaVidyalaya, Palampur 2. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur 1. Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai 2. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 1. Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar 2. Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University, Nagpur Central Institute for Research on Goat, Makhdoom Contents INTRODUCTION SI. Code Title No. No. Experimenting organization 38 1590 Technique of curing bone fracture in animals 1. Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi VishwaVidyalaya, Palampur 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi The results of the experir ntation including identification of active ingredients are included in this document.