8 for production traits and 0.7 for fertility, longevity, somatic cell count, and other traits. GS involves two steps i.e., firstly effect of each SNP marker is estimated in a reference population. Secondly, genomic breeding values (GEBV) of young animals are calculated by using marker information, and subsequently ranked for selection. NBGC-IB, NBAGR Karnal has developed the HD-SNP chip for indigenous cattle (608K); Buffalo (603K); Backyard poultry (610K); Goat (605K) markers and; Medium Density DNA Chip of Camel (180K). Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 151 5.2. Nutritional interventions In livestock production system, feeds being the major input cost (70%), needs special attention and necessitates to manage the feed resources efficiently to sustain the present growth rate. The R&D in the area of Animal Nutritional and Feed technology also occupy the central place in the journey towards science led increase in animal production in independent India. With the growing demand for milk, meat and animal products the country is facing a shortage of 13.3%, 31.7% and 27.5% of dry fodder, green fodder and concentrate, respectively. Grasses from pastures, forest areas and wastelands/ fallow lands are the major sources of natural vegetation available for livestock feeding. There are four major types of grasslands in India viz. arid, semi-arid, sub-mountainous and temperate regions. Estimates of feed availability indicate that availability of feed resources in terms of dry fodder, green fodder and concentrates are 435, 920 and 57 million tons, respectively. Fodder crops are the plant species that are cultivated and harvested for feeding the animals in the form of forage (cut green and fed fresh), silage (preserved under anaerobic condition) and hay (dehydrated green fodder). The estimated potential availability of fodder on the basis of DM, CP and ME is 1,15.95, 148.17 and 1.058 million tons, respectively. The crop residues like straws, stovers, sugarcane tops, tubers and roots are the major feed resources for feeding of the Indian livestock across all ecosystems. At national level, of the total 718.57 million tons of dry matter available, crop residues account for 64.38 %. Oil cakes and meals obtained as by-product after extraction of oil from oil seeds are valuable source of protein for livestock feeding. Major oil seed crops grown in India i.e., groundnut, rape and mustard, soybean, sesame, safflower, sunflower, castor, linseed, and niger utilized for feeding of livestock. Substantial quantities of about 4-5 million tons of unconventional cakes from castor seed, karanj seed, neem seed, jatropa seed, rubber seed, etc. are also potentially available. Fruits and vegetables wastes constitute another important animal feed resource but due to high moisture (80−90 %), high soluble sugars (6−64%) and crude protein (10−24%) contents they are highly perishable which restricts their full utilization.