 Various weed management approaches, can be used to increase pulse production in the country based on crop and their ecology, as well as availability. Preventive methods: Preventive weed control aims to minimize weed introduction, establishment, and spread into new areas while also preventing seed set on existing plants. To reduce weed seed rains into soil, methods include using clean seeds/certified seeds, preventing invasive and alien weeds, cleaning farm implements before use, cleaning farm bunds, applying well-rotten compost, and so on. Cultural methods: Weed management relies heavily on cultural methods. Good agronomic practices such as proper sowing time, paired-row planting, soil solarization, stale seed bed, crop rotation, mulching, intercropping, cover crop, interculture and maintaining residue cover over soil are examples of these methods. Crop competitiveness against weeds can be increased by using these approaches, which can provide low- cost and safe weed management tools. Pulses are an important component of conservation agriculture systems and can be grown profitably with proper weed management. Manual and Mechanical methods: Manual weeding is effective, but it is uneconomical due to the higher costs involved. Although herbicides Table 1. Promising herbicides for pulses Crop Herbicide Dose (g/ha) Remarks Pigeonpea Pendimethalin (PE) 1000 to 1500 Controls annual grasses and some broad-leaf weeds Greengram Pendimethalin (PE) fb imazethapyr (PoE at 25–30 DAS) 750 and 100 Broad-spectrum weed control Blackgram Pendimethalin (PE) fb quizalofop-ethyl (PoE at 25–30 DAS) 750 and 50 Broad-spectrum weed control. Quizalofop should be used where grassy weeds are dominant. Chickpea Topramezone (PoE at 25 DAS) 20.6 Broad-spectrum weed control Lentil, field- pea Pendimethalin (PE) 750 to 1000 Controls annual grasses and some broad-leaf weeds Quizalofop-ethyl (PoE at 15–20 DAS) 50 to100 Controls annual grasses Clodinafop (PoE 25–30 DAS) 60 Controls annual grasses Pendimethalin (PE) fb quizalofop-ethyl (PoE at 20–25 DAS) 1250 and 100 Broad-spectrum weed control Soybean Pendimethalin (PE) fb imazethapyr (PoE at 25–30 DAS) 750 and 100 Broad-spectrum weed control Fenoxaprop + Chlorimuron (PoE at 20–25 DAS) 80 and 9 Controls annual grasses and broad-leaf weeds DAS, Days after sowing; fb, followed by; PE, Pre-emergence; PoE, Post-emergence Indian Farming 5 July 2023 substances, which improve herbicide efficacy through controlled release mechanisms and can be useful in exhausting the soil weed seed bank. Some of the most promising pulse herbicides are listed in Table 1. Biological methods: Biological weed control with bacteria, fungi, nematodes, insects, fish, birds and other animals is an effective method for controlling many problematic weeds that is also cost-effective and environmentally friendly. Collego®, based on Collectotrichum gloeosporioides f.sp.