 Farmers of Kadi taluka believe that weeds like 'Gutari' (Staria tomentosa) grow better in light soil while 'Dabhdo' (Desmostachya bipinnata) and 'Dhaman' (Cenchrus sp) grow vigorously in fertile soil. Paddy gives more yield in the field where 'Samo' (Echinochloa Colonum) grows naturally (Mahesana, Gujarat). Patel (1992a) 3 Enhancement of soil fertility through animal bones Animal bones are buried in the basin area of the plants. The animal bones improve soil fertility by adding phosphorus to soil (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 4 Improvement of soil fertility by animal staying Staying the animals in the field for 1 or 2 nights is done to increase fertility of soils (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 5 Improvement of soil fertility by residue incorporation Incorporation of crop residues, stubbles and digested residues of hedges grown on the bunds are an integral part of organic fertilization (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 6 Use of river bed soils River bed soils are rich in nutrients that eroded along with soils by water from hilly slopes and are deposited. Hence are used good for raising crops (Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 95 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 7 Use of Sachik soil for higher crop yield Yellow soil (Sachik) is used as manure for enhancing crop production. Yak loads of this yellowish/dark brown coloured soil are scattered in the field (Tagloom area, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 8 Increasing yield of cotton by application of salt mixed with manure 20 to 25 kg of common salt is mixed with about 10 cart loads of natural manure and is applied in farm during Jyeshtha-Vaishakh (May). It would be more effective if the mixture is applied uniformly in all the furrows.10 maunds of cotton/bigha is received (1/3 of acre). It is believed that the manure increases the crop's resistance to pests (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Sanghani (1998) 9 Use of goat manure for improving millet production Goat manure improves not only the millet production but also its taste. The physical properties like soil structure and waterholding capacity improve with the addition of goat manure in addition to enhancing soil fertility (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 10 Collection and usage of farm yard manure Farmers in this region primarily keep their animals to meet the need of manure. It is collected from cow sheds either inside or outside the house. The dung is put outside the house in a heap in lower areas, whereas in upper areas it is directly put in heaps in the fields and covered with a thin layer of soil to avoid its dispersion by wind. Farmyard mannure is transported to the fields in Kilta (bamboo container) by people’s participation and also by horses. On an average 125–250 q/acre of manure is used by the farmers throughout the region.