 Protected Nutrient Technology for High Producers Limiting amino acids: High yielding cattle and buffaloes require about 40% of crude protein of their diet in the form of rumen undegradable protein (UDP) bypass protein, and fraction should contain essential amino acids methionine and lysine. Highest lysine was in silkworm pupae (1.71%) followed by pearl millet grain and maize gluten-meal. The lysine of other feedstuffs ranged from 0.85 to 1.48%. Maize gluten-meal contains the highest methionine (1.25%) followed by silkworm pupae (1.08%). The methionine of other feedstuffs ranged from 0.11 to 0.44%. The bypass protein fraction of silkworm pupae contained highest amount of lysine followed by safflower-cake, copra-cake, maize gluten-meal-60, maize gluten-meal-40, pearl millet and groundnut-cake. The lysine and methionine of groundnut-cake protein get extensively degraded in the rumen and needs to be protected for feeding top high producing animals. Buffalo Ammoniation has already been advocated to the farmers as the best method for improvement of crop residues. However, there is a great economic loss of urea-N in the form of free ammonia, which escapes to the atmosphere polluting the environment. The modified technology of urea ammoniation would be more useful in fixing ammonia without affecting the improved digestibility of crop residues, and it will be utilized by the animal for its body functions, checking the double loss caused by urea ammoniation. In the laboratory scale trials efforts were made to trap the excess ammonia during urea ammoniation of wheat straw (AWS) using boric acid, sulphuric acid, hydrochloric acid, phosphoric acid, acetic acid and formic acid. The palatability and nutritive value of commercial hydrochloric acid treated straw were the best. Feeding of AWS to growing male buffalo calves up to 258 days was superior to HCl–AWS feeding indicating that trapping of excess ammonia by adding HCl during urea ammoniation of wheat straw has no extra benefit. Feeding of AWS as well as HCl–AWS showed no adverse effect on clinico-nutritional aspect and buffer quality. Sheep At the CSWRI, Bikaner, several experiments were conducted using mustard straw (MS) (treated/untreated) and peal millet kadbi (BK) as major source of roughage in complete feed blocks (CFB). The ration of roughage to concentrate in CFB was UNCONVENTIONAL AND AGRO- INDUSTRIAL BY-PRODUCTS FOR LIVESTOCK FEEDS The unconventional feeds, tested and recommended as energy source in livestock ration, are mango seed kernel, sal seed-meal, vilayati babul pods,tomato waste, tapioca starch waste, mahua flowers, molasses, malt waste, etc. The important protein source are babul seed chuni, kuvadia seeds, pilludi-cake, Isabgul gola and lali, ambadi-cake, niger seed- cake, rubber seed-cake, neem seed-cake, etc. Mahua-cake, babul pods, sububal seeds, single cell protein, corn steep liquor, sorghum gluten, etc., are good energy and protein sources.