 The year-by-year stockpile data of conventional crops, such as rice and wheat, revealed that India’s food security was not harmed as a result of agricultural diversiﬁcation at a macro level. In another aspect, high-value crops have a lot of potential for creating jobs because a signiﬁcant number of people needs to be employed. In addition, India’s small and marginal farmers, who account for the majority of the country’s agricultural output, have plenty of labor that may be put to good use in the manufacturing of high-value goods. There is also a good chance of net exporting high-value crops. Crop diversiﬁcation fulﬁls the fundamental goal of higher production. On the other side, it may enhance sustainability. Through evaluated organic cropping, it leads to sig- niﬁcant plant diversity in the ﬁeld, which results in positive environmental consequences through efﬁcient nutrient utilization and reduced pollution risk through the avoidance of synthetic fertilizers and pesticides, while enhancing biodiversity. Firstly, the government must take immediate steps to enforce proper policy implemen- tation and invest more in research and development, infrastructural facilities, provision of efﬁcient support services, and institutions for credit, marketing, processing, and packing of farm products. Secondly, to encourage crop diversiﬁcation, extensive education on prospective crop- ping patterns, improved farm practices, and irrigation management should be provided to farmers. Thirdly, to reap the beneﬁts of globalization, the government should ensure that small and marginal farmers are more involved in crop diversiﬁcation. Contract or corporate farming may be one of the solutions to enhance the speed of crop diversiﬁcation and provide better opportunities for these farmers to increase their farm income and take risks in the regime of globalization. Fourthly, in terms of sustainable agriculture, there is a need for more straightforward approaches to monitor agricultural sustainability, particularly organic farming, for the beneﬁts of farmers, academics, researchers, and other stakeholders. Author Contributions: Conceptualization, S.N. and B.K.G.; Software, B.K.G. and S.N.; Investigation, B.K.G. and S.N.; Data curation, S.N. and B.K.G.; Writing—original draft, S.N.; Writing—review & editing, B.K.G. and S.N.; Supervision, B.K.G. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: This research received no external funding. Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable. Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable. Data Availability Statement: Not applicable. Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. References 1. GOI. Economic Survey 2021–22. 2021. Available online: https://www.indiabudget.gov.in/economicsurvey/doc/stat/tab87.pdf (accessed on 9 August 2022). 2. GOI. Census of India, 1951. 1955. Available online: https://censusindia.gov.in/nada/index.php/catalog/28409/download/3159 1/52737_1951_APP.