 Concentrates—Feeds low in fiber and high in digestible nutrients, such as grains, cottonseed meal, wheat bran, and soybean meal. Animals should have access to feed and water on a daily basis, in a consistent manner, on a regular schedule, and according to their specific requirements. Rations should provide the required nutrients for maintenance, growth, lactation, and pregnancy based on an animal’s life stage, as found in references such as the National Research Council, 2001. Wellness care and herd management Veterinary wellness care and planning is the easiest and cheapest method of disease control. The following simple steps are recommended to begin wellness care regime: Dehorn calves of horned breeds— Dehorning or disbudding is performed to avoid injury to herdmates and personnel, reduce feeder space requirements, and increase handling ease. Dehorning should be done at the earliest age practicable. Disbudding is the preferred method of dehorning calves. Castrate male calves—Castration of young male calves is necessary as it reduces the chance of unplanned mating, venereal disease, and aggression against other animals and animal caretakers. Although various techniques are available, surgical castration prior to weaning is recommended. Castration should generally be done at the earliest age practicable, and certainly at less than four months of age. Wean calves—Separating calves completely from their mothers promotes a cessation of milk production in cows and restores the heat cycle. For cow health management, the most effective routine procedures which can be used are: yy Regular vaccination 25 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy Screening of cows against diseases yy Promoting resistance in animals that might be exposed to potentially infectious agents through good nutrition yy Regular deworming yy Control of external and internal parasites yy Maintenance of health, production and reproduction records of all animals yy Regular examination of cows with breeding or calving problems yy Adoption of bio-security measures Practices for minimizing disease incidence yy Provide an appropriate housing facility with adequate space for all animals. yy Avoid temperature extremes and fluctuations to keep it within animal’s comfort zones. yy Practice good sanitation at all times. Manure should be removed as frequently as practical. yy New animals coming into the gaushala should be checked and vaccinated against endemic diseases. yy Isolate all new animals for a sufficient period (minimum 21 days) before allowing full entry into the gaushala yy Ensure that animals always have an adequate quantity of feed and fodder, appropriate to age and physiological stage. yy Provide ample, potable water, with space for at least 10% of housed cattle to drink at any one time. yy Protect feed and water from fecal and other environmental contamination. yy Do not mix different age groups of animals.