 Moderate sized deciduous tree reaching up to a height of 12-15 m, found in the outer Himalayas from Satlaj to Sikkim and fairly common through out the hotter parts of India as far east as Assam. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 375 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 231 Sesamum indicum Sesamum H- Til M- Til G- Tal Tel- Nubbulu T- Ellu Kan- Ellu Mal- Karuthellu O- Khasa P- Til Oleaginous edible seeds of sesamum indicum, tradinally steamed for oil. Sesamum seeds are emollient, diuretic, lactagogue and nourishing tonic. It is helpful in piles. Decoction of the seed is said to be emmenagogue and is also given in cough. Sesamum oil is widely used as an ingredient of confectionary and for making margarine. It can be used in the manufacture of soaps, cosmetics, insecticides and pharmaceutical products. Sesamum cake or meal obtained as a bio product of oil milling industry is highly esteemed as a livestock feed. The cakes from ghani, expeller and solvent extraction process are comparable with respect to the digestibility of total carbohydrate. Erect branched or unbranched annual 60–180 cm, cultivated through out the plains of India and up to an altitude of 1200 m. The flowers are white, pink of mauve-pink, with darker marking. 232 Shorea robusta Sal H- Sal B- Sal M - Ral G- Ral Tel- Gugal T- Kungiliyam Kan- Kabba Mal- Mara – maram O- Sal Sal is the most universally used timber in North, east and central India. Sal is one of the primary hosts of tasar silk worm. A paste made from fruit is used in diarrhoea. It is a good source of resin and oil. Sal oil cakes contains 10 to 12 % protein and about 50% starch and can be used as cattle and poultry feed. Large sub-deciduous tree, seldom quite leaders found extensively in parts of North- East and central India. Under average condition, Sal attains a height of 18–30 m, though under very favorable condition grows up to 45 m. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 376 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 233 Solanum surattense Yellow berried, yellow night shade H-Katcli B-Kanta-Kali M- Bhuiringani G-Bhoyaringani Tel-Venkuda T-Kandan Mal-Kantiri O-Ankranti P-Maholi Root is expectorant, forming an ingradient of a well known ayurvedic medicine, dasamula. It is employed in cough, asthama a painsin cheet, being used in the form of a decoction. Stem, flowers, and fruits are bitter and carminative. The juice of berry is used in sore throat. The plant is credited with diuretic properties is used to cure dropsy. The juice of the leaves, mixed with black pepper is prescribed in rheumatism.Solasonine is present in fruit.