 For long term storage and more shelf life, humidity (65-70%) and temperature (25-30⸰C) needs to be maintained inside the storage stricture. Before storage, empty structure surfaces should be sprayed with fungicide carbendazim @ 2 g/litre of water. Bulbs are to be filled up to height 3-4 feet in storage structure. For further interaction, please write to: Dr P A Sable (Assistant Professor), Sardarkrushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University, Jagudan, Gujarat 384 460. *Corresponding author: sable.pating@gmail.com Onion storage structure Electronic nose (e-Nose) for real-time health monitoring of onion, potato and tomato under storage An electronic sensing system (e-Nose) has been developed in collaboration with C-DAC, Kolkata for the real-time health monitoring of the onions, potatoes and tomatoes in storage. The system consists of 8 metal oxide semiconductor sensors (MOS), equipped as an array, signal conditioning system, amplifier, Analog - to - Digital Converter, 32-bit ARM processor - based board and other auxiliary accessories. The developed system has been tested at ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal. During test operation, the user needs to select the appropriate commodity on the touchscreen display and feed in the necessary information related to the test. After that, the system automatically activates the appropriate MOS sensors assigned for a particular crop. Furthermore, the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) gets sniffed from the storage unit, passes through the auxiliary heating chamber and then through the sensor array. The respective sensor detects the VOC concentration and expresses it in numeric form. The values of the 8 sensors further generate a single index value through which the condition of the crop can be judged. The whole cycle of the measurement, computation and result output is completed in 7 min. The system can distinguish the differences based on VOC for all 3 commodities as the sensor readings and index value change with respect to the storage period following the specific trend. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Movable screens in rose production • Use movable screen, an important tool for rose cultivation. • It can help growers manipulate environment conditions — lowers temperature, changes humidity and influences production numbers. • The movable screens can be used year-round and in a variety of climates — from the Netherlands to India. Indian Horticulture 20 C APSICUM is considered as high value low volume vegetable crop. It is widely grown as an off-season crop (March–October) in hills of Uttarakhand including district of Almora. Capsicum is rated as highly remunerative crop for hilly region of Uttarakhand and other mountain regions of India. In hilly region of Uttarakhand, capsicum is very profitable crop as it is cultivated for long duration with great scope of sustainability. Cultivation of capsicum gives higher profit during the lean period when supply of capsicum is limited and prices are high in plain areas.