 Through this study, CIRCOT has identified several factors for successful processing and production of Avivastra wool-cotton blended yarns. Spinning and Weaving Trials on Naturally Coloured Cottons Detailed bulk scale spinning and weaving trials on indigenously-grown naturally coloured cottons undertaken at CIRCOT revealed that coloured cottons are more amenable to cleaning and mechanical processing than the normal white cotton. The fabrics prepared from coloured cotton showed better fastness properties to washing, perspiration, rubbing and light and possess good handle value. Coloured cottons could be best utilized in combination with white cottons to produce attractive fabrics and garments and their eco-friendliness could give an added advantage for promotion even in International markets. VEGETABLE WITH POLYHOUSES Studies were carried out for determining vegetable sequence under round-the-year vegetable production using greenhouse technology at Choudhary Sarwan Kumar Himachal Pradesh Krishi Vishvavidyalaya, Palampur and CIPHET, Abohar. Capsicum-cabbage-green onion was found to be most suitable with benefit : cost ratio of 2.7 at Palampur, whereas spinach (one cut)-broccoli-sweet pepper was most remunerative with benefit : cost ratio of 5.1 for Abohar region. The average temperature inside the greenhouse was 5-8°C higher, the relative humidity 4-12% higher and the evaporation was 1.5-2.5 mm/day higher compared to outside. Sweet pepper in polyhouse ● A cotton stalk puller-cum-chipper developed at CIRCOT, Nagpur ● Attempt made at CIRCOT to explore the possibility of producing Avivastra wool cotton by adopting short staple commercial spinning system DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 144 STRAWBERRY CULTIVATION IN ABOHAR REGION Mr Nachatar Singh, a progressive farmer of Nandgarh village of Muktsar district was very eager to grow high-value crops and after coming in contact with the CIPHET, Abohar got the motivation to grow strawberry, which is not grown traditionally in that area. After attending training programme on strawberry cultivation and with the help of AICRP on APA Centre, Abohar, he planted strawberry on 0.8 ha for which about 50,000 strawberry runners of chandler cultivars were brought from Himachal Pradesh and Maharashtra. The runners were transplanted in October and micro-irrigation system was used for irrigation and fertigation on which about Rs 1.8 lakh were spent. Mr Nachatar Singh obtained strawberry yield of approximately 34.0 tonnes/ha. The fruits were sold in the markets of Delhi, Chandigarh, Amritsar, Muktsar, Bathinda, Faridkot, Malout, Abohar, Moga, and other cities at rate ranging from Rs 40 to 200/kg. He earned a profit of Rs 2.5 lakh/ha. Now he plans to export strawberry fruits to Middle East and some European countries. Eco-friendly Azo Dyes Research findings have identified many of the aromatic amines that are employed in the production of azo-dyes as carcinogens.