com/locate/devec Regular article Rural road infrastructure & agricultural production: Evidence from India✩ Yogita Shamdasani National University of Singapore, Department of Economics, 1 Arts Link, 117570, Singapore A R T I C L E I N F O JEL classification: Q12 J43 O13 O18 Keywords: Infrastructure Agricultural productivity Technology adoption Labor markets A B S T R A C T A large share of the world’s poor live in remote regions, where high costs associated with limited connectivity constrain economic activity. This paper estimates the effects of improvements in infrastructure under a large rural road-building program on production decisions in agriculture. Remote households that gain access to program roads diversify their crop portfolio, adopt modern agricultural technologies and increase hired- labor use. Supporting evidence suggests that program roads increase the mobility of agricultural workers by integrating village labor markets across space, in turn enabling the adoption of labor-intensive production practices. These findings highlight the importance of last-mile connectivity in remote areas across the developing world. 1. Introduction Important innovations such as high-yielding varieties (HYVs) have significantly increased agricultural yields across the world in recent decades.1 These gains in yields, however, have been unequal, with developing economies substantially lagging behind top producers. For example, recent FAO estimates suggest that paddy yields in India are less than half of that in the United States. Numerous factors drive these cross-country differences, including limited take up of productive tech- nologies such as HYVs by rural households in developing economies. This has subsequently given rise to interventions in recent years aimed at increasing adoption of such technologies – fertilizer subsidies, rain- fall index insurance and mobile-based agricultural advice, to name a few – with mixed success. In this paper, I examine the importance of poor transport infras- tructure as an alternative factor impeding take up. Earlier works have discussed the potential role of infrastructure — for example, Suri (2011) proposed that farmers face heterogeneous net returns to pro- ductive technologies, such that even those with high estimated gross returns may fail to adopt due to high costs attributed to poor infrastruc- ture. I empirically test the validity of this view. Specifically, I estimate the impacts of improving access to rural road infrastructure on agricul- tural households in remote villages – for whom the costs of adoption are ✩I am deeply grateful to Emily Breza, Supreet Kaur and Eric Verhoogen for feedback and encouragement. I thank Jenny Aker, Dan Berkowitz, Seema Jayachandran, Ajin Lee, Maggie Liu, Suresh Naidu, Dan O’Flaherty, Kiki Pop-Eleches, James Roumasset, Adam Storeygard and participants of the Columbia Development Colloquium, numerous seminars and conferences for helpful discussions.