 Recognizing this, the NARES has gradually started shifting form ‘a producer-driven to demand driven and market-led’ agricultural research and development (R&D) system. In this transition, issues of technology transfers through commercialisation from public research, gaps of knowledge in new product development (NPD) processes for the markets and attracting entrepreneurs to this sector have emerged. This led to development of Incubators, who are nurturing early stage startups and entrepreneurs, besides big corporates getting involved in these new product development more specifically in agri-technology and food technology. The agri-technology startups in India are trying hard to get to a scale for sustenance and growth. The majority of these startups are under three years of age and have made their model in such a way that they wanted to be the unicorn in the stiff competition. Off late innovations in new product development has been seen in private sector also, this is more in food sector. Lot of processing industries with national and international licenses have been set up in India. Indian Farming January 2020 50 Many companies are innovating on their own and lot of entrepreneurship is emerging in this sector. The face of the Indian food processing industry is redefined by the startups. We want to now clearly participate in this market, Sanjay Sharma, CEO of MTR Foods told PTI. According to RedSeer’s Foodtech Market Updates, the foodtech industry has seen an overall GMV growth of close to 140% in 2018, with order volumes increasing by a whopping 176%. The ecosystem needed to enable the growth of startups started with incubation support. Incubators are the technology-led and knowledge- driven entity to help in commercialization of innovations and research outputs. Technology business incubators not only help in growth of technology based new enterprises but also improve their survival rate from 30-70% (NSTEDB, 2016a). These also help in mustering support services for start-ups, finding funding such as venture capitalists, angel investors and better networking opportunities for locating good markets. National Science and Technology Entrepreneurship Development Board (NSTEDB) of Department of Science and Technology, Government of India was promoting technology transfer in India through Science and Technology Entrepreneur Parks (STEPs) programme since 1982. Since 2000, NSTEDB initiated Technology Business Incubators (TBI) programme for nurturing technology and knowledge based start-ups. These incubators provide services such as developing business plan, market research, technical assistance, other support assistance such as obtaining approvals, arranging legal and IPR services, using facilities of host institute at minimal charges and proving workspace for initial period.