 columnare was developed to induce specific immunity in Labeo rohita fingerlings and offer protection. Besides an efficient protective vaccine, an efficient and stress-free delivery method for administering the vaccine to fish was also developed. Vaccine showed 81.18% protection to fish under field conditions. The use of vaccine for disease prevention will minimize the antibiotic use in farms, which has adverse environmental effects. Multi-parameter water analysis kit: Onsite estimation and monitoring of water quality parameters is crucial for successful aquafarming. A cost effective, indigenous and handy multi-parameter water analysis kit was developed for estimation of dissolved oxygen, Functional aquarium feed Kalor fishPlus Developed a cost effective aquarium feed “Kalor fishPlus” for ornamental fishes with optimum nutrients and functional properties such as colour enhancement. Feed contains added level of beta carotene and astaxanthin. The feed possesses highly digestible ingredients to reduce waste generation in aquariums. Feed is available in particle sizes ranging from 0.3 mm to 3 mm to promote healthy fish growth and reproduction. Indigenous functional aquarium feed Kalor fishPlus CarryCap – Aquaculture planning tool Assessing the carrying capacity of natural water bodies is essential for planning expansion of aquaculture. ICAR-CIBA developed a conceptual model and methodology for assessment of carrying capacity of water bodies in relation to aquaculture and translated it into an online tool called “CarryCap”. This model will provide information necessary for the formulation of strategies to integrate shrimp farming into coastal zone management. ammonia (0.1 to 2 ppm), nitrite (0.05 to 1 ppm), calcium and magnesium ions, and total hardness. Trademark registration: ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute has successfully registered trademarks of four technologies namely CAGEGROW® (Trademark No. 3625921), CIFRI GI CAGE® (Trademark No. 3852537) CIFRI PEN HDPE® (Trademark No. 3852538) and CIFLIN® (Trademark No. 3852539) in the name of ‘Indian Council of Agricultural Research’ in the Trade Marks Registry of Government of India, Mumbai. ❑ 9. Mechanization and Energy Management Farm mechanization Multi-crop thresher: Hill farming needs machineries which should be lightweight for transportation, and portable for easy assembly and dismantling. The developed lightweight multi-crop power thresher is suitable for threshing of wheat, paddy, amaranth and millets to suit requirements of Uttarakhand hills. Its threshing capacity for wheat, paddy, barnyard millet, finger millet and amaranth is 34, 75, 58, 54, and 30 kg/h, respectively. Threshing efficiencies for these crops are greater than or equal to 98%. The multi-crop thresher would benefit hill farmers by saving of time and labour, and also reduce the drudgery involved in the manual threshing operations.