 The present paper focuses on the AI application in agriculture and how it helps to overcome various problems in agriculture and highlights the various initiatives taken by Govt to enhance the application of technology in agriculture and created ecosystem for Agri-tech startups. Keywords: Agriculture, Artificial Intelligence, Agri-tech, Government, India, Startups. Cite this Article: Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar. Application of AI in Agriculture Sector in India. International Journal of Artificial Intelligence Research and Development (IJAIRD), 2(2), 2024, 153-167. https://iaeme.com/MasterAdmin/Journal_uploads/IJAIRD/VOLUME_2_ISSUE_2/IJAIRD_02_02_014.pdf Tanuja Talwar, Parul Talwar https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 154 editor@iaeme.com Introduction The term artificial intelligence (AI) refers to a group of technologies that allow robots to mimic human sense-perception-action at higher intellect levels. Therefore, by obtaining and analysing images, sounds, and voice, computer vision and audio processing are able to actively comprehend the environment around them. AI has made a significant growth in the Agri-tech, industry & automotive, healthcare, BFSI and retail sectors in India. With over 2 billion more people on the earth by 2050, 50% more food will be needed from the same amount of agricultural land. Climate change is also bringing in warmer temperatures overall and more erratic weather. Both population and income, the two main factors influencing food demand, are rising. India is being forced by this situational factor to transition from traditional farming to more productive, sustainable, intelligent, and efficient farming (Madaswamy, 2020). Around 55% of India's population rely on agriculture and related industries as their main source of income, demonstrating the agricultural sector's continued importance in the country's economy despite its potential to promote equitable growth, ensure food security, and enhance rural earnings. Gross value added (nominal at base price) increased from about INR 100 billion in 1950–51 to nearly INR 37.8 trillion in 2020–21, indicating the growing vitality and significance of the agricultural industry. However, from approximately 52.3% in 1950–1951 to approximately 18.2% in 2022–2023, the sector's contribution of the national GDP has declined. The vibrancy of the country stems from its inherent agroclimatic power. India possesses the second-largest amount of arable land in the world. In addition, the country has 20 agroclimatic zones and all 15 of the major climates on Earth. India is home to 46 of the world's 60 different varieties of soil. These natural traits, along with farmers' initiative and government concentration, have allowed the country to meet its goals for food security and to profitably employ people. (India Beyond 75: Envisioning Smart & Sustainable Agriculture | 1, n.d.).