 Thus, it could be concluded that okra during spring- summer should be irrigated at 80% PE with organic mulch for realization of higher yield, besides saving SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 17 Based on mean price of ` 45,000/t, gross and net income of coconut plantation was improved by ` 20,250 and ` 8,000/ha due to introduction of pulse crops. Thus, wide deficiencies in production of pulses in islands can be offset by their intercropping in coconut. Coconut-based mixed farming system involving, coconut, black pepper, fodder, fishery, poultry and goats gave higher net return of ` 7,17,955/ha. Among components, dairy, coconut and black pepper contributed 80% of the total returns. Inclusion of fodder legumes and organic supplements was helpful in maintaining soil fertility and productivity. Organic nutrient management was standardized for cultivation of Hybrid Napier var. CO3 fodder intercrop in coconut plantations, with application of cow dung slurry, vermicomposting, Azospirillum and Phospho bacteria at bimonthly interval, resulting in high fodder yield of 139 t/ha. Arecanut-based cropping system model involving arecanut, black pepper, acid lime and turmeric recorded higher system productivity with black pepper contributing 67-70% and the main crop arecanut contributing only 22-26% to total system productivity. Tuber crops: A study on cropping systems involving tuber crops showed rice (var. Kanchana), short-duration cassava (var. SreeVijaya)+blackgram (Co-7) resulted in higher energy equivalent, tuber equivalent yield (38.86 tonnes/ha), production efficiency (107.94kg/ha per day) and profitability (added profit of ` 52,107/ ha over sole cassava) besides saving nutrients (half FYM and; N and full P). Medicinal and aromatic plants: The cultivation of patchouli (Ipogostemon cablin) as a shade crop in mango orchards with 45cm × 45 cm spacing, application of 100:50:50 NPK kg/ha + 2.5 t vermicompost + 20 ppm GA resulted in 56.03% higher oil yield over the control. Fish Environmental flow estimation of river Ganga at Haridwar: Constructions of dams and barrages and severe water abstraction and diversions have threatened river ecology and fisheries. Environmental flow pattern of river Ganga at Bhimgoda barrage, on the basis of past hydrological data suggests requirement of 26.6 to 76.0% of mean annual runoff (6,258.58 to 17,875.96 million cubic metres) to maintain the downstream ecology and fisheries between seriously modified environmental management class (E) to natural/pristine condition or minor modification of in-stream and riparian habitats (A). The incoming and discharge pattern from Bhimgoda barrage during flood season is sufficient enough to maintain the ecological condition of river but the discharge during lean season (December to March) remains far below requirement of environmental management class (F).