 While the exact use of this technique is a subject for research, it appears that this mechanical exercise exerts just the right pressure to break the hard testa without causing any injury to seed itself thereby facilitating germination (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 21 Soaking of chickpea and wheat seeds for better germination The chickpea seeds are soaked in the water for a night before sowing where farmers in Western Haryana feel the moisture is limiting for seed germination. The same method is also followed for wheat when sowing is delayed. This practice helps in early germination (Western Haryana). Khatana (1991) 21 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 22 Crop selection through seed germination test On the day of the Ugadi festival, farmers in the border area of Karnataka and Tamil Nadu perform pooja (worship) of the plough. This festival is just before the sowing season and during this time, the farmers decide which seeds to sow. Two ploughs are joined together. A packet of arecanut sheath is made by joining them. This packet is filled with soil and manure.Farmers sow five types of cereals and nine types of pulses in this packet. After nine days, the pocket is removed and seed germination is observed. Crops of the germinated seeds are selected for sowing in that season (Karnataka, Tamil Nadu). Prasad (1998) 23 Reducing inbreeding by selection of seeds from different villages Seeds for future cultivation are collected from selected plots manifesting vigour, early maturity, disease resistance and higher productivity. After three to four years the seed source is shifted to other villages without diluting the selection criteria. This avoids inbreeding (West Himalayan cold deserts, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 24 Creation of microenvironments for different crops Farmers in Gulbarga of Karnataka form small terraces in gullies and water courses with a view to grow crops like paddy during rainy season (kharif) and chickpea in rabi on rainfed lands. In Anantapur, tankbeds are used for cultivation of rabi crops under residual moisture conditions. The farmers cultivate shade crops of castor + chillies, maize+turmeric, maize+soyabean to protect against frost and high temperature. They also burn the waste material near the field to create a smoke cover to minimize the crop losses against frost in mustard in parts of Haryana (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu). Sanghi (1993) 25 Cultural practices for minimizing the risk The farmers in southern Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh sow sorghum in Rohini karthi (onset of monsoon) and practice delayed sowing of castor in Arudra Karthi (first fortnight of July). These practices help to avoid the incidence of the shoot fly and earhead bug in sorghum. Farmers experience vigorous crop growth and good yields of sorghum by sowing with the onset of monsoons.