com) claims to make available sexed semen of Sahiwal, Gir and Red Sindhi bulls in India. The use of sexed semen of exotic breeds is becoming popular in states like Punjab, Haryana, Kerala and West Bengal. However, the high cost and poor pregnancy rates are the limiting factors. 6.5. Animal cloning A decade ago (2009), India created a history in the field of animal cloning research by the birth of world’s first cloned riverine buffalo using an economical and simple animal cloning technique called handmade cloning at ICAR-NDRI Karnal. Using simplified buffalo cloning technology, several cloned buffaloes were produced in the country using different types of somatic cells. The technology developed in India is less demanding India’s first female Sahiwal calf named ‘Holi’ born through OPU- IVF in 2007 at ICAR-NDRI, Karnal Multiple copies of elite Murrah bull (M-29) Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 157 in terms of equipment, skill and time. At CIRB and NDRI, so far, 15 cloned bulls from superior males and one re-clone calf have been produced. The first cloned bull ‘Hisar Gaurav’ born in 2015 at CIRB, Hisar has already produced more than 15,000 doses of semen. These semen doses have been used both at CIRB as well as at farmers’ herds to produce 62 pregnancies which are growing normally, similar to progenies of bulls born conventionally. Also, the semen of these cloned bulls had fertility attributes equal to those of normal bulls. 6.6. Other reproductive technologies/products Early pregnancy diagnosis kit (Preg-D) for cow and buffalo: A Urine based test has been developed at ICAR-CIRB, Hisar which can detect pregnancy at farmers’ doorstep as early as 30 days after insemination. Spermoscope: ICAR-CIRB, Hisar, developed and commercialized a handy and portable field microscope- ‘Spermoscope’ for the evaluation of sperm motility in field conditions. Low sperm count for AI: Standardized low dose up to 10 million sperms per straw without affecting fertility for semen of Sahiwal, Karan Fries and Murrah Bulls in field condition. 7. Livestock products technology Achievements of ICAR in Animal Products Technology research, education and capacity building since independence and their applications have played a vital role in accomplishing remarkable progress in augmenting milk, meat and egg yields and quality characteristics through breed improvement programs, nutrition and management programs; hygienic meat production and handling practices; extension of shelf life and microbial quality; value- added products; utilization of tough meat; economic formulations; byproducts utilization; human resource development etc. Technologies for meat speciation, cell-cultured meat and traceability have been initiated.