 In this round they are being asked to make presentation of their offering with its detailed information in front of the selection panel. The panel evaluates every detail of the technology, financials and team of the startups and selects few. These selected startups then become the incubates of PKI under that particular program. • Incubation process: The selected startups are then being facilitated with either letter of support or MoA depending upon the program. The startups then undergo a compulsory incubation/acceleration workshop whose duration may range from seven days to two months as per the program. These workshops comprise of detailed one-on-one mentoring sessions with technical and business mentors, expert lectures, interactions with farmers, industry giants, policy makers and regulatory machinery. The composition of the workshops and relative intensity of its various facets vary as per the batch’s requirement and stage of development. The mentoring sessions are need and milestone based and are being conducted on each and every aspect of a business i.e. Intellectual Property (IP), Marketing and Distribution, Finance, Valuation and Business Selection Funnel for the programs ‘UPJA’ and ‘ARISE’. Table 1. Support pillars of Pusa Krishi Incubator comprising provision of services to incubates Infrastructure support Technical support Business support • Incubation Office space • Technology • Pre-incubation Commercialization consultation • Training Room • Technology • B Plan Development • Meeting Room Development facilitation • Conference Room • Technology Validation • Training to develop • Internet and communication and Field Trials business skills facility • Business Mentoring • Video conferencing facility • Technology Upscaling • Secretarial Services • Well equipped Laboratories: • Technical Mentoring • Market Assessment/ Biotechnology, Tissue Culture and Backstopping research and PHT • Agripreneurship • IP Services Development Programs • Fund Facilitation (ADPs) • Assistance in running market feasibility and financial feasibility studies • Fund Facilitation Applications received : 618 First : 55 Second Screening : 30 Registered : 25 Funded : 18 Screening Applications received : 422 First Screening : 59 Second Screening : 24 Registered : 20 Funded : 15 Program Status: UPJA & ARISE UPJA ARISE 2019 Lab to Market MVP Stage Launch Pad for Agri-Startups Idea to PoC Indian Farming January 2020 28 Modelling. After the workshop either they are being incubated for asset duration of time or they are virtually associated with a curated mentoring process for the set duration or till fund facilitation. Current programs: Currently the Incubator is running four programs for its different clientele as given. • SAMARTH - Innovation and Incubation Induction Program: It is a curated Incubator handholding and capacity building program that is inculcating the values and standards of agribusiness incubation in budding incubators.