 Leaves linear or elliptic or oblong- lanceolate, acuminate, bluntly serrate; torns axillary, up to 5 cm long; flowers yellow, scented, both male and female flowers in axillary, clustered racemes; berries deep- red or black, globose, smooth, 2-8 seeded. The plant is thorny when young, scented, both male and female flowers in axillary, clustered racemes; berries deep-red or black, globose, smooth, 2-8 seeded. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2665 Use of Clerodendron infortunatum leaves for germination of paddy seeds, healing wounds and controlling dysentery in animals and human beings Volume 2, supplement I, page 174 Clerodendron infortunatum Bengali and Hindi: bhant; Kannada: basavanapada, ibbane; Malayalam: peruku, pervellam; Marathi: bhandira; Sanskrit: barhichuda, bhantaka; Tamil: karukanni; Telugu: gurrapukattiyaku. Clerodendrum infortunatum Linn. The leaves are used as bitter tonic, antiperiodic, vermifuge, laxative and cholagogue as well as used externally for tumours and certain skin diseases. Fresh leaf juice is used as an injection into the rectum for ascarids. A gregarious shrub common throughout India, Myanmar and Sri Lanka. All parts of the plant have a bitter pungent taste. The leaves have a disagreeable odour. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2718 Use of narguni (Atalantia monophylla) leaves for curing ear trouble Volume 2, supplement I, page 174 Narguni Hindi: jungli nimbu; Kannada: kadu nimba; Malayalam: kattunarenga; Marathi: makad limbu; Oriya: kata narunga, narguni; Sanskrit: atavi-jambira; Tamil: kattanarangam, kattelumicchai; Telugu: adavi-nimma, yerra-munukudu. Wild lime Atalantia monophylla DC. The oil possesses antibacterial and antifungal properties. The juice of the plant is used for dyeing. The leaf juice forms an ingredient of a compound liniment used in hemiplegia. A decoction of the leaves is applied in itch and other cutaneous complaints. A large, thorny shrub or small tree, found in peninsular India, Orissa, Assam and Meghalaya and in the Andamans; also occasionally cultivated in gardens. Leaves compound, leaflets 1-3, ovate-oblong; flowers white, fascicled in the leaf-axils; berries as large as a lime or nutmeg, globose, usually 4- celled. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2662 Use of saslasar creeper for relief from joint and body pain Volume 2, supplement I, page 175 Saslasar Refer to ITK Code No.