 A majority of the subsistence farmers who typically cultivate this crop are unable to take advantage of its high yield potential due to lack of improved cultivars and application of improved management practices. A robust seed production programme is central to providing high quality seeds for agricultural development and food security. Pearl millet is a highly cross-pollinated crop. Due to protogynous nature, it is more susceptible to contamination. The emergence of the panicle from the sheath takes about 4–6 days. Flowering starts after the emergence of the panicle out of the boot, but in some genotypes style exertion commences before completion of panicle emergence. The stigma remains receptive for 18–24 h after full emergence. Anther emergence begins one day after the emergence of the stigmas is completed on the panicle. Under rainfed conditions, first-flush anthesis of a plant may take place over 12 days, and it may continue on the tillers till seed formation. After pollination, the stigmas dry up in 24 h. Seed-set can be seen in the panicle about a week after fertilization. All the commercial grain hybrids of pearl millet are single-cross hybrids based on A1 cytoplasmic-nuclear male sterility (CMS) system. Hybrid programmes in India accorded highest priority to grain yield and downy mildew resistance combined with maturity duration mostly in the range of 75–85 days, as per agro-ecological requirements. In pearl millet, seed is multiplied in four stages (Nucleus, Breeder, Foundation and Certified) called seed classes. Nucleus seed production Nucleus seed is the first stage in the chain of seed multiplication of a released variety or hybrid parents and is the only seed that can be used to produce its own seed class. The procedure for the production of nucleus seed is as follows: Maintainer line (B-line): Initially in an isolation plot, about 1000 plants are selected and selfed at the time of flowering. Finally, 200 selfed plants conforming to the characters of the maintainer line are selected and divided into two lots. In the next season, using the seed from one lot, plant-to-row is grown and the progeny rows are studied for the diagnostic characters and rows not conforming to the characteristics of the line are rejected. The corresponding seed of the second lot for the progenies are bulked. In the third season, the bulk seed is grown in isolation and harvested to obtain nucleus seed bulk of B-line. Male-sterile line (A-line): The A- and B-lines (nucleus seed bulk) are grown in alternate rows in isolation. The pollen shedders are rogued from A-lines. About 200–250 Indian Farming 73 (01): 35-37; January 2023 Indian Farming 36 January 2023 paired crosses between representative plants are made and labelled as A1 × B1, A2 × B2, etc. The harvested seed of each pair is kept separately. During next season, the paired crosses are sown in alternate rows retaining a portion of seed.