 Matrix scoring for comparing the performance of juice of urhul flower and allopathic medicine in treatment of diarrhea in goats Criterion Juice of urhul flower Allopathic medicine Extent of cure in adults 6 8 Extent of cure in kids 8 7 Potency 4 5 Duration of treatment 3 3 Frequency of oral administration 2 2 Cost effectiveness 10 1 Regain in milking 5 2 Safety 10 5 282 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 show that duration of treatment and frequency of drug administration were similar in both the methods of treatment. The ITK reported by farmers proved much cheaper and the goats regained milking earlier as compared to allopathic treatment. Experiment The results of the effect of administering the extract of urhul flower and allopathic medicine (Svifta) are shown in Table 2. The urhul flower could cure 80 % of animals affected from diarrhoea after 6 days of the treatment. On the other hand the oral administration of Svifta bolus could cure 100% of animals after 3 days of the treatment. The potency of ITK material compared to allopathic medicine was very mild. The goats affected with diarrhoea were negative for the presence of helminths. Fig. 1. Treatment of diarrhoea by juice of urhul flowers in goat of treatment, frequency of oral administration, cost effectiveness, and regain in milking and safety. The ITK was compared on the basis of these factors with the recommended allopathic treatment. Experiment An experiment was conducted in 5 replications with two treatments, viz. T 1, ITK, i.e. extract of 3 flowers of urhul twice daily for 3 days to each animal; and T2 , Svifta bolus (one bolus twice daily for 2 – 3 days to each animal). In each set of treatment there were 5 goats. The experiment was conducted at the place from where it was reported. CONCLUSION It was concluded that use of urhul is effective in treatment of diarrhoea in goats, which takes more time to cure than allopathic medicine. Table 2. Effect of urhul flower (ITK) and Svifta bolus (allopathic) in treatment of diarrhoea in goats Days after Extent of cure (%) treatment Extract of Svifta urhul flower bolus 1 0.00 2/5 (40) 2 1/5 (20) 4/5 (80) 3 2/5 (40) 5/5 (100) 4 2/5 (40) - 5 4/5 (80) - 6 4/5 (80) - Data in parentheses are in percentage.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code :1967 Title of the ITK :Curing of diarrhoea in goats by using takala (Cassia tora) flower juice Description of the ITK :Diarrhoea is a commonly observed health disorder in goats. The reason may be eating of tender grasses in rainy season, excess intake of tubers and grains. To control diarrhoea, takala flower juice and ½ cup of tea is orally administered to the goat for 2–3 days. Farmers of Solapur district in Maharastra are adopting this practice since several years. Name and address of the discloser :Shri B.B.Khatal, At.