 Oldest crop well grown in Spain followed by Italy, Iraq, Syria, turkey and other Mediterranean countries. Spain and Italy once produced 2/3rd of world’s harvest. In India, its cultivation us confined to western parts of Maharashtra and Gujarat and small areas in Bengaluru (Bellary, Sreerangapatnam, Prospects Chitrdurga) and Tamil Nadu. In North India, most of the cultivation is concentrated in U.P. At present Turkey and Greece are the leading producers of fig, grown in an area of 600 ha in Maharashtra and 120 ha in south India (NHB, 2019). Nutritional value Fig is a highly nutritious fruit with high sugar and low acid content, rich in calories (269), protein and calcium (higher than milk), iron and highest fibre content among fruits. Fig fruits are often consumed as fresh, dried or canned. The nutritional index of dry fig is 11 as compared to 9 of apple, 8 of raisin and 6 of date and pear. The chemical composition and flavor of fig vary with the cultivar. Fresh and dehydrated figs both are rich in nutritional and biochemical content. Uses Fig fruits are consumed as fresh, preserved and dried or canned form. This is very much reputed as a dried fruit; and is processed into jelly and paste. Latex is used to coagulate milk. The latex of the unripe fruits and of any part of the tree may be severely irritating to the skin if not removed promptly. Fig leaves are used for fodder in India. In southern France, there is some use of fig leaves as a source of perfume material called “fig-leaf absolute. Dried latex powder use in coagulating milk to make cheese and junket. From it can be isolated the protein-digesting enzyme ficin which is used for tenderizing meat, rendering fat, and clarifying beverages. In tropical America, the latex is often used for washing dishes, Bearing of fruits in plants Indian Horticulture 4 pots and pans. The latex is widely applied on warts, skin ulcers and sores, and taken as a purgative and vermifuge, but with considerable risk. In Latin America, figs are much employed as folk remedies. A decoction of the fruits is gargled to relieve sore throat; figs boiled in milk are repeatedly packed against swollen gums; the fruits are much used as poultices on tumors and other abnormal growths. The leaf decoction is taken as a remedy for diabetes and calcifications in the kidneys and liver also. Fresh and dried figs have long been appreciated for their laxative action. Plant description Fig is moderate sized deciduous tree in subtropics but performs as evergreen in tropics. Branches are irregular, shoots develop at base of trunk, leaves are very broad, ovate and long stalked. Fruits mostly long stalked, pear shaped with a velvety or glabrous skin, purplish or black in color. Fig is a multiple fruit, botanically a ‘Syconium’ which consists of a hollow receptacle with a narrow aperture at the tip and numerous small tiny fruits lining in inner surface. Table 1.