 The polluted water from waste water carrying drain was flown into overhead tanks subsequently to sequential treatment tanks. Thus, Typha treated, Vetiveria treated, tube well water and untreated waste water were used for irrigation. Higher heavy metals were reduced by Typha than Phragmite skarka. Higher concentration of DTPA extractable cadmium was recorded in soil irrigated with untreated drain water as compared to Typha treated water. The effect of irrigation water on heavy metal uptake by Fenugreek indicated that among irrigation water treatments, higher concentration of DTPA extractable heavy metals were observed in plots irrigated with untreated drain water as compared to tube well water. Fenugreek in plots irrigated with untreated drain water absorbed higher concentration of manganese than tube well water irrigation. The EDTA significantly enhanced the manganese in leaf part of fenugreek. Genetic diversity analysis: A total 107 entries were examined containing 92 entries of weedy rice germplasm with 12 cultivated and 3 wild rice accessions collected from different geographical regions. Genomic DNAs were extracted using DNA extraction kit with high purity. The polymerase chain reaction was carried out using 18 highly polymorphic SSR markers. The entries were grouped into three main clusters. Weedy rice accessions showed high degree of admixing among populations which indicates the gene flow due to their out-crossing nature while wild rice did not show any admixing or allele sharing. Freshly harvested grains of different weedy rice biotypes, rice cultivars and wild rice biotypes were tested for germination on monthly basis in controlled conditions in environmental chambers providing favourable conditions for germination. Dormancy percentage was calculated taken into account number of ungerminated grains. Huge difference was observed in terms of dormancy percentage among different entries tested. After six months of harvesting, out of 45 entries, only 4 entries showed 0% dormancy. Fifteen entries exhibited 0-25%, 7 entries 26-50%, 10 entries 51- 75% while 9 entries showed 76-100% dormancy. Similarly, significant difference was observed in bulk density (BD) of treated soil. As compared to 1.34 g/cm3 value of control, bulk density decreased by 7.5, 8.0 and 8.7% for 0.1, 0.2 and 0.3% hydrogel treated soil, respectively. Porosity of the soil, based on these BD values, was about 49% for control, whereas for treated soils it was above 53% for all three treatments showing guar gum based hydrogel as a potential soil conditioning material. Performance of rice and wheat crops under different microirrigation systems: Future crop production will depend on improvements in water use efficiency for growing field crops as the groundwater table is depleting year after year. Therefore, a study was taken up by adopting microirrigation systems to minimize the quantity of water applied rice and wheat crops without effecting their yields.