 4-hexylresorcinol (4-HR) has a structural resemblance to phenol substrates and could have a competitive inhibitory effect on polyphenol oxidase activity. Hence, 4-hexylresorcinol may specifically interact with polyphenol oxidase, and render it unable to catalyze the enzymatic reaction. Its applicability on fresh-cut fruit has been proven especially when used in combination with reducing agents. Some combinations have been proven to extend the storage life of fresh-cut produce. A mixture of 0.01% 4-hexylresorcinol + 0.5% ascorbic acid + 0.02% calcium chloride maintained freshness of ‘Royal Delicious’ apple wedges for one week at 5 + 2ºC. Modified atmosphere packaging The rapid growth of the packaged fresh-cut fruits industry has been enabled largely by the development of modified atmospheric packaging technology. With modified atmospheric packaging the desired balance of O2 and CO2 is created through the control of gases transmission of the packaging film and the respiration rate of the produce. Modified atmospheres can retard the browning reaction. Among other benefits the use of modified atmospheres delayed senescence and consequently enhanced storage life of fresh-cut apples. Edible coatings In modern era, the edible coatings are receiving significance as methods that can preserve the quality of fresh-cut apples. It can serve as semi-permeable barriers come up with to enhance shelf-life by reducing moisture and solute migration, gas exchange, respiration and oxidative reaction rates as well as suppressing physiological disorders on fresh-cut apples. Recently, some investigations have proposed the use of edible coatings in combination with anti-browning agents to improve the colour preservation of fresh-cut apples. Through modification of oxygen, carbon dioxide and ethylene transmission, the edible coating has the ability to inhibit the moisture loss, form a barrier to oxygen and control the release of anti-browning compounds on the surface of cut tissues. Edible coatings may be used in combination with other preservation techniques such as low temperature and suitable packaging to achieve browning control in fresh-cut apples. The edible coatings in combination with anti-browning agents (4-HR, ascorbic acid and citric acid) effectively prolonged the shelf-life of the minimally processed apple slices by 1 week when stored at 5 ± 2 °C. In general, chemicals used to prevent or control enzymatic browning are used in solutions, frequently as formulations containing one or more compounds, which are used for dipping the fruit pieces. In general, increased enzymatic browning of fresh- cut apple wedges during storage was accompanied by an increase in a* and a decrease in L* values. The lowest L* and the highest a* values were obtained in control samples dipped in water. The solutions containing anti-browning agents significantly decreased the loss of lightness (L*) of apple wedges.