 Generally one adult male is maintained in each flock for breeding purpose. Farmers generally practice docking. Age at first lambing was 1.5–2 years, and on an average 7–9 lambings take place in the lifetime of an ewe. Lambing interval is one year. There was no specific lambing season and lambing takes place throughout the year, however, mostly in October and November. Jalauni sheep are maintained for mutton and wool production. The wool quality is coarse. Shearing is practiced 3-times in a year in October–November, March–April and June–July. Average wool production is 150–200 g/shearing. Males, 9–12 month old, are sold for slaughter with an average body weight of 16–20 kg. Parlakhemundi buffaloes are to be conserved as their number is decreasing Jalauni sheep are kept for meat and wool purpose.Lambing takes place throughout the year DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 94 Kheri sheep: Their breeding tract is Jodhpur and Nagaur Districts of Rajasthan. The sheep breed is migratory and is maintained both for meat and wool production. The average flock has 1–3 rams and 50–150 females including young ones. The major breeding season (July–September) is followed with major lambing season (December–February), and the minor breeding season (April–May) is followed with minor lambing season (July–September). Age at first lambing raged from 20 to 24 months with a lambing interval of 7–8 months, and lamb production was 8–10 in its lifetime. In males, the age at first mating is 12–18 months. Males are selected on the basis of dam’s milk production and physical appraisal; wool weight was given some weightage. The rams are used for a maximum of 2 years and replaced thereafter to avoid inbreeding. Average wool production is about 1.5 kg in 2–3 shearings/annum. Mandya sheep: Mandya sheep is distributed in Mandya district and bordering area of Mysore district of Karnataka. The breed is also referred as Bannur and Bandur. Bandur sheep, mostly restricted to a part of Malvalli blocks, forms a distinct strain within the Mandya breed characterized by a compact, low set body and typical meaty conformation. The flocks are generally small, mostly with 16 animals. The animals are small, white with light brown face usually extending up to neck; some animals may be completely white. Almost all the animals have wattles. The neck is comparatively short. Bandur animals have compact and low set body, small legs and typical reversed-U shape from the rear. Animals of this strain have typical meaty conformation and are valued for meat quality with intra-muscular fat giving a marbling effect to the mutton. However, the animals of this strain are restricted within a pocket of Malvalli taluka of Mandya district. In the remaining area, the animals are comparatively larger in size and do not possess the typical meaty conformation of Bandur animals. The ears are medium, long and drooping but alert. Average ear length is 13.0 ± 0.08 cm (range: 9–18 cm). Nose line is slightly roman.