 Seed mats: These are broad sheets of material, such as paper or other degradable material, with seeds placed in rows, groups or at random throughout the sheets. Pre- seeded mats come with attractive flower seed mixes often chosen around a theme and are a good if you don’t mind your choice of flowers being somewhat limited. A unique combination of annual, biennial and perennial plants ensures instant colour and a long-term garden. The seed mat aids initial growth by acting as a mulch mat to allow the seedling a head-start over other competing plants and also helps to retain vital moisture while the seeds germinate. The seed is distributed evenly throughout the mat allowing correct spacing for germination. After seeds have germinated, some seedlings may be thinned out and transplanted to other areas of the garden. The seed mat consists of two sheets of special paper and the seeds are placed in-between at exact distances. For seed mats, only quality seed pre-tested in laboratory should be used. The space between the single seed grains is adapted to seed species and quality, thus guaranteeing the optimal number of plants in each cultivating pot or bed. SUMMARY Seeds bear the impact of any stress at first during seed germination. Therefore, strengthening of seed through different seed enhancement techniques is of paramount importance. A number of seed enhancement techniques such as priming, coating, pelleting, etc. are used to enhance the performance and vigour of seed. Besides, coating, pelleting, seed tape and mat also ensure the precision sowing of valuable seeds. In conclusion, these enhancement treatments are used to maintain and upgrade the quality of seed. For further interaction, please write to: Nakul Gupta (Scientist), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR- Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: nakulgupta1988@gmail.com Infestation of lesser grain borer on roasted makhana seeds under storage The internal stored grain insect (lesser grain borer), Rhizopertha dominica (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae) was found infesting on the roasted makhana seeds of 3 standard size grades, i.e. 7 mm, 9 mm and 11 mm. It was recorded that insects preferred to feed on 11 mm size seeds, followed by 9 mm and 7 mm, respectively. Both grub and adult stages were able to cause substantial damage. The adult laid the eggs on the seeds by entering inside the kernels through the apical natural opening. The average temperature and relative humidity for R. dominica development was maintained as 32.5 ± 1°C and 70 ± 5°C, respectively. It took 35–50 days for completing its life cycle, which included four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Females laid about 200–500 eggs in their lifetime, singly. Incubation period lasted for 5±0.3–9±0.4 days, while larval and pupal period took 30±5 and 8±2 days, respectively. Mean longevity of adult male and female was 26 and 17 weeks, respectively.