 This approach offers benefits such as higher product yields and compatibility with existing infrastructure compared to other hydrogen production methods. This process transforms plant-derived primary substances into hydrogen-rich syngas [8]. The hydrogen from the syngas produced via biomass pyrolysis highlights the possibilities of this method to meet the developing need for renewable energy [9]. Moreover, the ability of biomass pyrolysis to utilize special biomass feedstocks, combined with India's abundant and huge degrees of biomass resources, makes it surprisingly treasured for strength wishes in rural regions [10]. Biohydrogen plays a considerable role in India’s future electricity quarter, due to its renewable nature, ecological sustainability, and its capacity to promote rural increase [11]. By way of utilizing India's massive biomass reserve, biohydrogen yielding may also help to satisfy the growing want for sustainable electricity. Technological advancements, together with microbial electrolysis and image fermentation, are increasing the performance and scalability of biohydrogen manufacturing [12]. India produces a substantial amount of agricultural waste each year, with estimates varying between 350 and 990 million metric tons annually. Furthermore, supportive government policies promote a favorable environment for the upgradation of biohydrogen. Integrating biohydrogen into existing infrastructure and promoting decentralized production can improve energy security, reduce carbon, and stimulate rural economies [13]. In several previous research studies, emphasis has been placed on defining the challenges and the chances of biohydrogen production [14-17]. Published studies focus on another critical concern Biomass production, technological changes, and economic feasibility. They take into account average supplies, prices of production, and the demand of the consumers to estimate the prospects and challenges of biohydrogen production in India. The importance of government regulations and subsidies to support the continued development of biomass pyrolysis technology. Specifically, their work on hydrogen production from biomass pyrolysis plays a crucial role in realizing India's renewable energy potential [18]. The potential biomass pyrolysis technology offers many benefits especially hydrogen production for energy generation. The studies emphasize India's biomass resources and how they can be utilized to tackle rural energy and waste management problems. There is no doubt that current industries may be improved by modern technology, and this will offer productivity and sustainability. Nevertheless, some challenges such as biomass feedstock availability and costs, upfront development costs and marketability of the industry, political intervention, or lack of same have to be considered for the feasibility to be realized.