 When it was above normal, optimum productivity was achieved; under normal rainfall condi- tions, fairly high values of land equivalent ratios were achieved; and under low rainfall conditions, one of the two crops reasonably yielded, providing insurance against the risk due to weather aberrations. The conjunctive use of rain, river, ground, sea, and treated sewage water should become the norm (Swaminathan, 2005). There is a vast scope to increase the productivity of dryland agriculture from the current average of 1.2 tonnes per hectare to 2.0 tonnes per hectare. The inclusion of new technologies, diversification of crops, adoption of drought-tolerant va- rieties, and implementation of moisture retention tech- niques can achieve this potential. The challenge of dryland development is creating an enabling environment where local people can improve their livelihoods by using their resources more produc- tively (Anderson et al., 2016). Climate change will in- crease the number of people at risk of hunger. However, impending global-scale changes in population and eco- nomic development over the next 25 years will dictate the future relationship between water supply and demand to a much greater degree than changes in mean climate (Vörösmarty et al., 2000). Drylands are integral to Indian agriculture, providing essential resources and supporting millions of livelihoods. While they face significant chal- lenges, mainly water scarcity and soil degradation, there are numerous opportunities for improvement through sus- tainable practices, technological innovations, and support- ive policies. Effective management of drylands is crucial for enhancing their productivity and ensuring food secu- rity in these regions. A sustainable farming system is a system in which the natural resources are managed so that potential yield and the stock of natural resources do not decline over time. There are three constraints in dryland agriculture: physical, technological, institutional- infrastructural, and socio-economic (Rajkumar et al., 2023). Carbon farming in drylands can help improve soil quality, increase resilience, and reduce social vulnerabil- ity to climate change. Carbon footprint concept/theory/philosophy A carbon footprint is an environmental indicator that represents the amount of greenhouse gases (GHGs), ex- pressed as CO2 equivalents, that are emitted directly or indirectly due to a specific activity. Even though the focus is usually on carbon dioxide, there are other gases that contribute to this greenhouse effect, such as methane (CH4) and nitrous oxide (N2O). The origin of the carbon footprint can be traced back to a subset of the “ecological footprint” proposed by Wackernagel and Rees (1997).