 Vasudev et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110632 7 Table 4 Study Section and description. Section Description Study Design This study was conducted between October 2021 to April 2023 in ﬁfteen agricultural villages in the districts of Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri (17.65 °N, 79.05 °E), Vikarabad (17 °N, 77 °54 °E) and Sangareddy (17.6075 °N, 78.0798 °E) in Telangana, India. To ensure a comprehensive analysis, ﬁve villages representing diverse agricultural practices were selected from each district. The selection was randomised, taking into account geographical, climatic and socio-economic factors to ensure that the villages are typical of the agricultural context of the region. The study involved 493 participants of different genders and ages, provided by the local authorities were selected. The participants were divided into two groups: the exposed group, consisting of 341 participants, and the control group, consisting of 152 participants. The sample size was determined using epi info stat calc version 7.2.5.0, aiming for a conﬁdence level of 95 with a margin of error of ± 5 % and assuming a population proportion of 50 %. Selection of Participants Participants were randomly selected from a list of households provided by the local authorities to ensure a fair and impartial selection process. The sample comprised individuals in the age group of 18–70 years living in ﬁve agricultural villages in Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri, Vikarabad and Sangareddy districts of Telangana, India. The selected villages grown rice, cotton or other crops and had at least one year of experience in spraying pesticides. The control group consisted of people aged 18–70 who were not farmers and lived in similar areas to the exposed group, and participants who had been diagnosed with cancer, diabetes or neurological disorders, who were pregnant or who had conﬂicts with the study were excluded from both groups. Eligible exposed and control subjects were recruited to participate in the study and provided written informed consent. Data Collection Data collection was performed on a pre-validated questionnaire with over 25 questions in different sections, which was tailored to our study with minor adaptations. The interviews, which lasted 15–20 minutes, were conducted by native speakers of southern Telugu and Hindi. The questionnaire included sections on personal information, pesticide use and exposure, occupational knowledge before, during and after spraying, and recall of health symptoms. Prior to data collection, the reliability and validity of the questionnaire were thoroughly checked. Topics covered included demographic information such as age, gender, height, weight, BMI, blood glucose level, education level and main occupation. Participants also provided information on farming practises, pesticide use, acreage, expenses, labour tasks, sources of information, reasons for pesticide use, and disposal methods for used pesticide containers.