 yy Third party who have procured licenses for production and/or sale of products based on ICAR technologies – limited to the scope of licensed product and terms of license. yy Third party who have test certificates for their product(s) issued by ICAR institutes – limited to the tested item/product and terms of testing. yy The principal colour of logo would be ‘Green’ on ‘White’ background. However, other colour imitations could also be sparingly used only under certain conditions viz. background colour cannot be altered, artistic representations, metallic replicas or souvenirs, animations etc. yy Every building and official vehicle of ICAR must have a logo of ICAR prominently placed at the entrance, all meeting halls, seminar halls, auditoriums and public meeting places (open of covered) should have a logo of ICAR conspicuously placed in such a way that it is visible to majority of spectators during the function. ICAR logo can also be place on the building façade adjacent to public roads. Such façades could have illumination for night-time visibility. yy No person shall use the emblem or any colour imitation thereof in any manner which tends to create an impression that it relates to the ICAR or that it is an official document of the ICAR, without the previous permission of the ICAR or of such officer of that ICAR as may be authorized by it in this behalf. yy No person shall use the logo for the purpose of any trade, business, calling or profession or in the title of any patent, or in any trade mark or design, except in such cases and under such conditions as may be prescribed. yy The logo should not be used by any person on personal vehicles or personal stationery. Special cases of relief could be when an institute issues special stickers or passes to certain vehicles/ officials for the purpose of security or otherwise. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 31 yy In case ICAR logo is being used along with logo of ICAR Institute, the ICAR logo should be above the institute logo in usages as specified in the beginning of this document. In case both the logos are being used in same horizontal plane, ICAR logo should be on the left on the view page. Height of the ICAR logo should always be equal to or more than the height of Institute logo. This condition does not apply for use of ICAR logo with logo/ emblem of Govt. of India and/or other organizations. yy For all purposes, the softcopy of logo available on the ICAR website should be used in such a way that the logo doesn’t get distorted, misprinted or remains unclear. The aspect ratio of the logo (height to width ratio) should not be altered, although size could be changed as per requirement. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 32 Annexure – VII Guidelines for Participation of ICAR in National/International Exhibitions and Kisan Melas etc. Subject: Constitution of Committee to Consider Participation of ICAR in Exhibitions/Kisan Melas etc. Ref: Office Order No.