 After obtaining training, the fish farmers explored the possibilities of establishing catfish hatchery and producing seeds. Some of the successful farmers were: (i) Shri Kantu Giri from Baghmari, Purba Medinipur, West Bengal established a catfish hatchery in his farm for production of magur (Clarias magur) and singhi (Heteropneustes fossilis) seeds. From September to December 2022, he was able to produce 4.8 lakh catfish seeds of magur (3.0 lakh) and singhi (1.8 lakh). He sold these seeds to different states viz. West Bengal, Bihar, Odisha and Assam and was able to earn a net profit of R 4.28 lakhs. (ii) Shri Rahamatulla Shah from Nirakarpur, Khordha, Odisha established a catfish hatchery. By the end of December 2022, he was able to produce about 70,000 magur and 90,000 singhi seeds and was able to earn a net profit of R 2.5 lakhs from magur and singhi seed sales. (iii) Shri Safir Ahmad, A&F AGRO Partnership Firm, Jagiroad, Morigaon, Assam established catfish hatchery for mass-scale seed production of catfishes like singhi, magur, cavasius (Mystus cavasius) and pangas (Pangasius pangasius) with financial support from the District Fisheries Department under PMMSY. During the year 2023, he was able to produce fingerlings of singhi (1.6 lakh), magur (0.4 lakh), cavasius (0.75 lakh) and pangas (4.6 lakh) which he sold to the fish farmers of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. He also produced 6 tonnes of market size pangas and sold it in the local market. He earned net profit of R 6.84 lakh from sale of catfish seeds and market size fish. (iv) Shri Bijon Kanti Bairagi from Maheshchandrapur, Nadia, West Bengal was provided a portable FRP Pabda Hatchery consisting of a cylindro-vertical breeding/incubation unit and a rearing unit, developed by the ICAR-CIFA Centre of AICRP on PEASEM. The farmer successfully operated the hatchery and produced about 40,000 seeds of pabda (Ompok bimaculatus) in 2022. Again, in August 2023, he was imparted hands-on training on operation of the FRP pabda hatchery for seed production by ‘semi-natural induced breeding method’ and he was able to produce around 33,000 seeds of pabda by September 2023. A view of catfish hatchery in West Bengal A view of catfish hatchery in Odisha Catfish seeds Catfish seeds ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 51 PLANT GENETIC RESOURCES Germplasm exploration: During the period, a total of 19 explorations were undertaken and 1,407 accessions (887 cultivated and 520 wild) were collected from different parts of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Odisha, Rajasthan, Sikkim, Tamil Nadu and Telangana. Significant collection includes landraces and crop wild relatives of cereals, pulses and vegetables. In addition, important wild edible fruits and medicinal plants were also collected.