 yy Significant inter-caste heterogeneity exists. yy These results underscore the importance of investing in gender-responsive varietal improvement programs to achieve efficient wheat seed value chains and inclusive and sustainable wheat farming systems. Fig. 13. Ranking of wheat varietal attributes (n = 120) Capacity building activities yy Two young scientists from India spent 10 months in CIMMYT, Mexico and also visited Okinawa, Bolivia. Their training involved wheat breeding and pathology with emphasis on wheat blast. They participated in wheat breeding and pathology experiments conducted in El Batan, Toluca, Agua Frias and Obregon, Mexico as well as Bolivia. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 51 yy An international training on wheat blast disease screening and surveillance was organized at the Regional Agricultural Research Station, Jashore, Bangladesh from 19th to 28th February 2019. Four Indian participants attended this training. yy Three senior Indian scientists visited CIMMYT research station in Obregon. yy An advanced Course on Conservation Agriculture was organized. In addition, eleven students and five research interns have worked/ completed their research in various aspects of CA based systems and generated new scientific insights. yy Two Indian scientists attended the stem rust training course in Kenya. yy Ten scientists from India were provided partial or full funding to participate in the 1st International Wheat Congress in Saskatoon, Canada. yy One scientist sponsored to attend the International conference of Wheat Diversity and Human health, Istanbul, Turkey. yy Around 200 young scientists and other stakeholders trained on issues such as wheat and maize breeding, farming systems, conservation agriculture, climate smart agriculture etc. 52 The International Potato Center (CIP) is a non- profit research-for-development organization with a focus on potato, sweet potato and Andean roots and tubers. The organization is mandated to delivers innovative science-based solutions to enhance access to affordable nutritious food, foster inclusive sustainable business and employment growth, and drive the climate resilience of root and tuber agri- food systems. CIP has its headquartered in Lima, Peru, CIP and has research presence in more than 20 countries in Africa, Asia and Latin America. CIP’s vision is to work for a healthy, inclusive and resilient world through root and tuber systems. CIP is a CGIAR research center, a global research partnership for a food-secure future. CGIAR science is dedicated to reducing poverty, enhancing food and nutrition security, and improving natural resources and ecosystem services. Its research is carried out by 15 CGIAR centers in close collaboration with hundreds of partners, including national and regional research institutes, civil society organizations, academia, development organizations and the private sector.