 These are multi-product processing units working on job shop concept for round-the-year operations in rural areas utilizing local skills. A typical APC in Karnataka designed for a cluster of 2-3 villages comprises a multi-crop cleaner and grader, rice sheller, polisher, grain pearler, atta ckakki (for ragi), a hammer mill for spices and condiments, mechanical oil expeller and filter press, a mini dal mill, papad press, tamarind deskinning, deseeding and sheeting machine, weighing balances, and packaging machinery, besides a potato chip making unit. The entire machinery costs about Rs 4 lakh. Space requirement is about 16 m × 5 m. The unit provides employment to 6-8 persons round- the-year. The returns on investment of such unit is 15-20%. The APCs established in Aradeshalli and Banawadi villages near Bangalore, Ferina village in Dhoraji Taluka of Rajkot (Gujarat), and Mota Haldu village near Haldwani in Uttaranchal have been the leading centres. In Punjab, models evolved by the PAU, Ludhiana Centre of the AICRP on PHT have been widely adopted at the Government and private level. About 100 APCs have been established during the IX Plan in the state. In view of the success of such units, the World Bank has offered to provide funding for 600 such APCs to be established in different locations in Karnataka. The AICRP on PHT Centre at UAS, Bangalore has been assigned responsibility for detailed planning. Insect Trap Bin for Reduction in Storage Losses Wondering behaviour of insects was successfully utilized in developing metal bins with perforated ducts installed inside the bin called insect trap bins. Technology developed earlier at TNAU, Coimbatore under A P Cess Fund project was field tested under the AICRP at Junagadh Centre with scaled-up farm level conditions. For metal bins of 100 kg capacity, storage losses in wheat were reduced by 50% to that of control (metal bins without perforated ducts and fumigation). For groundnut, this technology was not found effective against insects, viz. bruchid (Caryedon serratus Fab.), rust red flour beetle (Tribolium castaneum Hb.) and corcyra (Corcyra cephalonic Stanton). Evaporatively Cooled Structure for Oranges and Potato For on-farm storage of freshly harvested oranges up to 10 days and potatoes up to 3 weeks, an evaporatively cooled hut type structure has been developed at PKV, Akola Centre of the AICRP on PHT.