 [83] employed a commercial lentil cultivar and two landraces to test the interactions of high temperatures, variable water supply, and atmospheric CO2. They found that high temperatures decrease grain production, that water supply did not mitigate the effects of high temperatures, and, significantly, that the genotypes differentially responded to high temperatures. These findings support the strategy to increase the adaptation of lentils to high temperatures through existing lentil germplasm. In the same context, Wright et al. [84] (2020) phenotyped 324 genotypes in eight lentil producer countries, identifying eight lentil groups based on sensitivity to temperature and photoperiod. Lentil varieties currently cultivated have a narrow genetic base due to domestication; this limits the prospects of further adaptation of lentils to changing climatic conditions [85]. In this sense, landraces, especially crop wild relatives (CWRs), are important sources of genetic variability. The employment of landraces and CWRs combined with systematic phenotyping can potentially develop climate-change-resilient lentil genotypes [86,87]. The lentil breeding traits valuable for disease resistance and adaptation to abiotic stresses are frequently quantitative. The identification of quantitative trait loci (QTLs) as markers for the selection and breeding of germplasm can now be performed by integrating genomics technologies that include large transcriptomic datasets, expressed sequence tags (ESTs), and single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) [88,89]. Safeguarding the agrobiodiversity of Lens species, landraces, and varieties is crucial for protecting the future of lentil breeding in a changing environment. Important efforts have been invested to conserve lentil germplasm; more than 58,000 accessions are spread across 103 countries. The largest collection (14,157 accessions) is maintained in the Interna- tional Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA), which has collected germplasm from 26 countries [88]. Other initiatives, such as LEGU-MED, are focused on producing integrative plans to valorize legume agrobiodiversity, including, specifically in Agriculture 2024, 14, 103 10 of 15 the Mediterranean Basin, emphasizing biodiversity-based farming systems to enhance the provision of ecosystem services [90]. 8. Lentil Medical Implications The benefits of lentils are not limited to agriculture or human nutrition. Wang et al. [91] identified 12 lectins with different carbohydrate specificities and assessed their anti-SARS- CoV-2 activity against mutant strains and epidemic variants using a pseudovirus-based neutralization assay. Lentil-derived lectins, which specifically bind to oligomannose-like glycans and GlcNAc at the non-reducing terminus, show broad and potent antiviral activity against a panel of mutant and variant strains, including artificial, wild-type, and epidemic variants B.1.1.7, B.1.351, and P.1.