 – Information on linkages established, exhibitions organized, externally funded project activities, new methodologies developed, income generating activities undertaken, and the status of demonstration units, KVK farm activities, revenue generated with qualitative and quantitative data. – Status of submission of AUC, Monthly/Quarterly/Annual Reports . – Number of farmers visited, farm advisory services undertaken, technology and knowledge products dissemination, web site management etc. ●Each scientist of KVK should individually give details about the problem diagnosis, activities planned in terms of OFT, FLD, training programmes as well as the outcome of the preceding year’s activities. Details of farmers and villages where activities were undertaken should also be given. ●Technical programme to address the problems noticed/emerging problems in the cluster villages must be proposed and got approved by the SAC. ●The problem dynamics and training needs should reflect in the programmes planned by KVK team. ●In addition to these mandatory items, other items, which are pertinent to improve the KVK functioning, may also be included ●A model format on guidelines for standard operational procedure of SAC meeting is given in Appendix- XXVI. (d) Reporting For the purpose of monitoring, KVKs should adhere to the following reporting system: – Annual Action plan in the specified format on or before 1st February for the forthcoming financial year – Monthly progress report on or before 5th of every month online, quarterly progress report in a stipulated time frame and annual report on or before 30th April of every year in the prescribed formats – UC by the end of April and AUC by the end of August every year Schedule for submission of various reports regarding financial management is presented in Appendix XXVIII. 109 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring (f) Documentation KVKs have to prepare the following documents and submit to the Zonal Project Directorate by adopting standard procedures and scientific approach – Updated district profile, every year. – Strategic plan for KVK activities, once in five years. – Farmer’s innovations with scientific rationale, publication(s) on the outcome and impact of technology assessment and demonstration, once in two years. – Each KVK should maintain a mailing list of farmers, which must be up-dated every year. – Information regarding various schemes of Central and State governments related to farmers’ benefit/need are to be compiled and published at district level by all KVKs. (g) Publications ●One publication on the outcome of technology assessment and refinement and demonstration from each KVK in a year ●Minimum of two research articles in a year ●Minimum of 6 popular articles in a year ●Minimum of 5 extension leaflets/folders from in a year ●Half yearly Newsletter ●Annual report 8.5 Common sign board The name of Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be called in English as Agriculture Science Centre.