 The major food stuff from vegetable kingdom were classified into various group from centuries, like suka (cereals-awned grain/dhanya), kudhanya (inferior quality of cereals), simbi (pulses), saka/virudh (vegetable) and phula (fruit) depicted in Ayurveda (Charak Samhita). Vegetables are important for nutrition, also have significant spiritual, ritual, magical and medicinal importance to mankind. In the Yajurveda, 71 (47 Dicotyledonous, 23 Monocotyledonous and 01 Gymnospermic) plant species, belonging to 32 botanical families, [Poaceae occupying the first place, Fabaceae the second and Moraceae in the third]; including tree, shurbs and herbaceous species (Urvaruka: cucumber- Cucumis sativus, Cucurbitaceae; Kyambu/ Puskara parna: lotus-Nymphaea pubescens, Nelumbo nucifera and Nymphaea nouchali, Nymphaeaceae) are mentioned which are being grown as vegetable even today. Various Sanskrit texts have described propagation methods of horticultural plants in ancient India by cutting and grafting. Seasonal grafting may be done according to the plant phenology as plants have not yet got branches grafted in Shishir (January-February), however, plants have fully grown branches grafted in Hemant (December- January) and plants have large branches grafted in rainy season, grafted joint portion of (root stock and scion) must be covered with coating of mud (Brhatsamhita, 55. 4, 5). Grafting is most widely used to develop ‘pomato’ (grafting of tomato scion on rootstock of potato) and ‘brimato’ (Grafting of tomato and brinjal scion on rootstock of wild brinjal) for management of soil borne bacterial wilt around the world by scientists even today. Kashyapiya Krishi Shukti (A tretise on agriculture) by Kashyap (C. 800 AD) is an excellent text on agriculture and horticulture covering various aspects of brinjal, Cucumber (urvaruka) vine laden with fruits Lotus with seeded fruit Indian Horticulture 28 patolika (pointed gourd), pumpkin gourd, kustumbari (coriander/dhanyaka), suran, sangabera (ginger) and turmeric grown by farmers. He also discussed biological parasitic vermins, ash, dust and lime water for pest management of vegetable crops. Planting should be done line-by-line in the fields which have already received sufficient manure of goat-dung or cow dung or the tendrils of creepers (Kashyapiya Krishi Shukti, 6.435-36). mentioned 18 crops that are cultivated with their seasonal cropping calendar e.g. summer season (suran/yam), rainy season (pointed gourd, kachalu, singharas) and winter season (carrot) crops. An epic the Ramcharitmanas by Goswami Tulsidas rightly narrated that pumpkin gourd (kumhada) and banana (kadali) were grown for welfare of human beings. Lokopkara (for the benefits of people) by Chavundarayas (1015-1042 AD) verse II contains key recommendations for management of vegetable pests, viz. patanga - locusts, jabhya - weevil, tarda - borer, vyadaras – rodents.