 KVKs organized training programmes on beekeeping, mushroom production and kitchen gardening for at least 50 farmers in each village. Besides, KVKs conducted one residential training of three days covering farmers from each of the 25 villages on integrated cropping practices and micro irrigation systems. Apart from organizing training programmes, KVKs coordinated the activities of the line departments in the district like distribution of soil health cards; mini kits of pulses and oilseeds; saplings of fruits, vegetables, agroforestry plants, bamboo plants; vaccination of bovines, sheep and goats; artificial insemination of cows and buffaloes; and distribution of agricultural implements and uploading the progress report of all the activities in the KVK Portal. KVKs organized 17810 training programmes imparting training to 642306 farmers, farm women and rural youth from 2745 villages in 112 Aspirational districts of the country. During the 2nd phase of KKA, 462901 farmers, farm women and rural youth were trained through 9089 training programmes in 2924 villages of 112 Aspirational districts of the country; 2633 demonstrations on integrated cropping practices were organized benefiting 10065 farmers; and 2390 demonstrations on micro irrigation were organized benefiting 9689 farmers, besides coordinating the activities of the line departments of the district. Under Jal Shakti Abhiyan, 334 KVKs organized 557 large Kisan melas with participation of 314154 farmers and school children in identified water stressed blocks and districts across the country. KVKs created awareness among 133140 farmers in one day on vaccination, disease management and artificial insemination and productivity of livestock during the launch of the National Animal Disease Control program (NADCP). 171 12. Conclusion The Gandhian thoughts and vision for rural transformation, community mobilization and participation, empowerment of women and youth from disadvantaged sections of the society, self-reliance of villages and holistic approach to agricultural development had a profound impact on shaping various ICAR frontline extension programs through KVKs for the betterment and economic wellbeing of farmers across the country. Gandhiji’s principles of sustenance through resource conservation, adaptation to local farming situations, recognizing farm innovations, integration of farming enterprises for stable incomes and livelihood security have been the main stay behind the launch of many programs over the years. The KVK scheme of ICAR adopted a farmer centric and participatory approach with science and technology driven agricultural development at the district level. KVKs have partnered with all stakeholders for holistic development of self-reliant villages through convergence of efforts and resources.