 yy More technological interventions are likely in the disciplines of ICT, digitalization, biotechnology, nanotechnology, agro- processing, precision agriculture and systems simulation, hence the associated manpower demand and shift in the pedagogy be accordingly included. The ICAR’s Fifth Deans’ Committee Report restructured the course curricula to underpin relevant practical skills, entrepreneurial aptitude, self-employment, leadership qualities and confidence among graduates and attracting and retaining youth in agriculture. qualities and confidence among graduates and attracting and retaining youth in agriculture. It also suggested norms for establishing new colleges. In order to harness regional specialties and to meet region-specific needs, certain optional courses such as coastal agriculture, hill agriculture, tribal agriculture etc. were formulated. In compliance with the Student READY programme launched in 2015, the Committee has designed one year programme in all the UG disciplines. The ongoing World Bank supported National Agricultural 20 yy Pluralistic approach and public-private partnership focusing on business/ marketing/income orientation are needed for making the local extension sensitive to the challenges at micro level, strengthening the feedback mechanism and setting the right priorities. yy Promoting entrepreneurship and agri-startups, encouraging market-led extension strategies and intensive use of electronic media should be duly covered in the educational programs. Policy aspects yy The Ministry may consider setting-up an ‘Agricultural Education Council of India (AECI)’ as a regulatory authority which should work on similar lines as that of the Veterinary Council of India (VCI). yy Since higher education is on the concurrent list, agricultural education must be brought into the concurrent list in order to bring uniformity in proposed reforms. yy World class institutes should be set-up along the lines of IITs and IIMs with needed autonomy for decision making. yy The focus should be shifted to instil employable skills in agriculture graduates who are expected by employers in today’s competitive business scenario; invest on non-formal education and vocational training in agricultural technologies. yy Educational reforms must now embrace non-formal degree programs around diploma and certificate courses to impart skill oriented vocational training programs for empowering preparation that will enable them to develop holistic solutions to the problems that they will encounter in their careers yy Are innovators with the confidence to be creative and address real problems yy Possess strong leadership, interpersonal and team building skills and demonstrate strong communication skills, including effective use of international business languages and information technology yy Have ‘business skills’ to generate employment and wealth and able to work particularly with rural communities.