 Total number of notified subordinate offices of the Council under Rule 10(4) of official Languages Rules 1976 has increased up to 142. During the period under review, 4 meetings of official language Implementation committee were conducted on 15 December 2020; 10 March 2021; 23 June 2021; and 29 September 2021 respectively. In most of the ICAR Institutes/Centres, official language implementation committees have been constituted and meetings thereof are being conducted regularly. Proceedings of these committee meetings received at Headquarters were reviewed regularly and appropriate suggestions were given to the concerned institutes for taking remedial measures. The quarterly progress report is sent on-line to the Regional Implementation Office, Department of Official Language, Government of India. The quarterly progress reports received from various Institutes are reviewed and suggestions are given to them for effective implementation. ICAR is participating regularly in TOLIC’s meetings. First Hindi Workshop for the period under report in ICAR Headquarters was organised on 24 December 2020 for private secretaries/personal assistants/stenographers on “Use of simple Hindi in day-to-day official work through E-tools as per official language policy and rules”. Second workshop was conducted on 9 March 2021 for the senior officers. Third Hindi Workshop was organised by Indian Sugarcane Institute, Lucknow on 16–17 March 2021 on “Aatmnirbhar Bharat: Vocal for Local”, wherein ICAR Headquarters was co-organiser. More than 250 participants from various institutes/directorates/centres/ bureaus all over the country participated in this workshop. In this seminar, 10–12 speakers delivered lectures on various subjects. Fourth workshop was organiged on 17 September 2021 for the section officers, on “The use of official work in Hindi through E-tools”. As usual, during this year also, Rajbhasha week/ fortnight/month was organized at Council’s Headquarters and its institutes. At Council headquarters, various Rajbhasha Competitions were conducted. “Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara” was organized at Council’s Headquarters from 14 September 2021 to 29 September 2021. On this occasion, the inspiring messages of Hon’ble Union and State Ministers for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare were issued. The Director General also issued an appeal thereby urging all officers/employees to do their maximum official work in Hindi.Under the Cash Award Scheme of Official Language being implemented at the ICAR Headquarters, 10 personnel were given Technology licensing activities at ICAR institutes ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 163 Institutes Award I Large Institutes 1. Indian Agricultural Research First Prize Institute, New Delhi 2. Indian Sugarcane Research Second Prize Institute, Lucknow II Awards to other Institutes/Centres of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region 1. Central Cotton Research Institute, First Prize Nagpur 2.