 It provides interdisciplinary platforms to researchers, academicians, research managers, policy planners, farmers, entrepreneurs, industry and extension personnel, youth and women and such other stakeholders to exchange views and opinions, discuss and deliberate on relevant emerging and ongoing researchable and policy issues, and opportunities for scientific and technological innovations that will lead to acceleration of academic and research outputs in the areas of interest. This compendium captures salient recommendations of the 137 events (CS26, HS8, NRM 27, AS 25, FS 8, AEx 19, ESM 11, AEg 11 and AEd 2 respectively) organized during the triennium from 2016-17, 2017-18 and 2019-20 under the ambit of eight subject matter Divisions of the Council, which, it is hoped, will help in redefining future programmes and strategize future meetings based on the recommendations. Crop Science The notable recommendations emanating out of twenty six conferences including the first National Plant Genetics Congress are captured below: Pre-Breeding: Although India has large in situ and ex situ crop biodiversity, diversity in the germplasm being used by the breeders is limited. Hence, mobilizing variability from unabated germplasm (including land races and wild species) needs to be focused. It is, therefore, recommended that a network project on pre-breeding be established in important crop plants. Germplasm Management: India being a center of origin/diversity for several crop plants, has gene bank with second largest number of germplasm collections. To efficiently use them, it Compendium Salient Recommendations 2 is recommended that the germplasm acquisition, both indigenous and exotic, be considered a continuous process and emphasis be laid on collection of wild species germplasm and gap analysis for collection, conservation, characterization and cataloguing. Public Sector Plant Breeding is facing serious challenges especially in cotton, maize, vegetable and floricultural crops. Accelerated and coordinated efforts should be made in the area of translational genomic research in combination with agronomy for delivering faster genetic gains on farmers’ fields. A comprehensive review of the GM technologies and necessary approvals within rules should be facilitated. Accelerated and coordinated efforts should be made in the area of translational genomic research in combination with agronomy for delivering faster genetic gains on farmers’ fields. Conventional phenotyping must be supplemented by GPS, proximal sensing and remote sensing to improve efficiency in cropIt is, therefore, recommended that a one-day brain storming workshop be organized to discuss this issue. A joint meeting of the office bearers of all the societies associated with plant breeding and genetics may be convened to chalk out the strategies to meet the challenges faced by public sectors in crop improvement.