 Quince candy: A process for preparation of candy from quince with shelf life of nine months with respect to colour, texture and taste was standardized. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 95 Bean to bar chocolate making: A complete processing protocol from cocoa bean fermentation to chocolate bar making using coconut sugar was developed for chocolate making at home scale. Using response surface analysis optimized combination of cocoa liquor and cocoa butter at 30% coconut sugar was found ideal for bean to bar chocolate making. Coconut: A prototype for tender coconut trimming was developed. Preservation protocol for trimmed tender coconut was optimized, and the technology commercialised. Frozen coconut delicacy, a vegan based coconut product, was developed. A pilot level plant for frozen coconut delicacy production was installed at ICAR-CPCRI, Kasaragod. Commercialization of technology: An MoU was signed with M/s Hadapsar Bakery, Pune to commercialize the technology for the preparation of cookies using pomace of Manjari Medika grapes. Synthesis of nano curcumin: A sonication based protocol for nano-curcumin having 2.5 fold increased solubility in both water as well as in virgin coconut oil was standardized. It exhibits 20% improved antioxidant activity and could be used as an enhanced bio-available formulation of curcumin. Mushroom: A technology for mushroom fortified mushroom chutney powder, from dry oyster mushroom was developed and licensed. It contains traditional healing herbs like brahmi and drumstick leaves and flax seeds, sesame seeds, groundnut and coconut. It has 3 months shelf-life in airtight containers/pouches at ambient temperature. A process for mushroom soup mix was developed with 30% oyster mushroom powder, 30% corn flour, 25% milk powder, 8% salt, 3% sugar, 2% black pepper, and 2% oregano. A process for mushroom multigrain bread was also developed with 5% oyster mushroom powder, 85% refined wheatflour, 6% whole wheat flour, 2% ragi flour, 2% oatmeal, and 1% flaxseeds. The process for value added, mushroom fortified health drink powder was developed containing 10% oyster mushroom powder, 10% malted ragi, 20% whey-protein, 30% milk powder, 20% sugar and 10% cocoa with overall 8.17 acceptability score. Post-harvest handling of mushrooms: Chemical treatments (0.3% citric acid and 0.3% ascorbic acid) were found optimum for shelf-life extension of white button (Agaricus bisporus) and oyster mushrooms (Pleurotus spp.) during storage. In packaging, 200 and 400 g capacity bags with 0.5% vents was observed better for retention of quality of white button mushroom. Milk Detection of vegetable fat in milk fat/ghee: Droplet Digital PCR (ddPCR) assay, a method for performing digital PCR, is based on water-oil emulsion droplet technology. The massive sample partitioning is a key aspect of the ddPCR technique.