 Significance of study • We can create dissemination, and action plans to increase the like­ lihood of adoption if we know the factors affecting the adoption of emerging technologies by the farmer’s community to increase the adoption rate of highly efficient food production technology, which can increase the nutrient-rich produce in sufficient quantity to feed the entire nation. This helps to perform better in the global hunger index, which is 94th out of 107 countries (2020). • The finding will be useful to technology developers, researchers, innovators, disseminators, and policymakers. • We can save natural resources and reduce potential environmental risks. • Emerging technologies will increase soil fertility, reduce farmers’ efforts, and monitor the soil’s health and, consequently, the plants. • Increase productivity, reduce the toxic level by controlling the use of pesticides, and save the input resources such as fertilizers, water, and several seeds. • We can obtain real-time data on particular locations in the acreage of land. Therefore, the right things can be done at the right places, at the right time, and in the right ways. 2.2. Purpose of study • This study aims to find the constraints restraining farmers from adopting newly emerged and more efficient technologies than traditional farming to counter food hunger. • To give a better view on the adoption constraints, which will be helpful to the companies or university or any firm that are devel­ oping new technologies regarding agriculture, to any individual or a group who wants to start his start-up, to an entrepreneur, to exten­ sion and marketing department of any public or private body, to the government for making any scheme or policy, to the NGOs who want to help the farmers etc. • To change India’s agriculture from resource-intensive to optimize resource use, saving natural resources and environmental health. To save the resources and environment • To save time and labor, farmers can make them more creative and efficient • To enrich the soil from nutrients washed out in previous decades due to higher use of fertilizer, pesticides, and water, to increase the health of the soil, which has deteriorated in the last decades. • To increase the technology adoption rate that uses water resources efficiently to counter water crisis in the future. 2.3. Assumption • All respondents consistently understand the questions. • The wording of the questions provides respondents with all the necessary information they require to answer them in the way required by the researcher. • All the participants responded with honesty and truthfulness. • All the respondent knows something about the subject. 2.4. Target population and sample size to be covered The population of interest consists of farmers living in India. Multiple-stage cluster sampling technique will be applied to carry out this study. Stage-1 In this stage, a state will represent a cluster.