 Apart from that, another type of migration data also includes return migration. For this study, the use of data is limited to remittance use in agricultural expense and its associated information. This study employed a multi-stage stratified random sampling approach. Basically, internal or outmigration and international migration data have been used in this study. This study involves a total of 4056 households, consisting of 1579 non-migrant households and 2164 migrant house­ holds. Among the migrant households, 1639 households, with 1530 for internal and 109 for international migrants, have been considered for the study. This data set contains several aspects such as household characteristics, demographic composition, migration characteristics, remittances and their utilization pattern, and various socio-economic characteristics such as education, employment, landholding, agricul­ tural investment, irrigation, and household head characteristics. Fig. 2. Sampling Framework of the Study. Note: A Migrant is defined as any household member who has relocated their usual place of residence to another district within India or to a different country for employment, business, or education, staying away for over a year. A Migrant Household refers to a household that includes at least one member who is a migrant. This individual could be an internal (out-migrant), international, or seasonal migrant. A Non-Migrant Household refers to a household where no member has ever relocated from their usual place of residence for employment or business purposes. A Return Migrant Household is any household that includes a member who has previously migrated and returned. An International Migrant Household refers to a household where at least one member has moved to destinations outside India for employment or business purposes, and their stay has exceeded six months. An Out-Migrant Household refers to a household where at least one member has migrated to other districts within India (but not internationally) for work or business for a duration exceeding one year. Remittance refers to the money that a household receives from its members who have migrated, over a period of at least one year. Source: MGP Migration Survey Report (2021) S. Sarkar and R. R.S. Research in Globalization 9 (2024) 100235 4 3.3. Methods 3.3.1. Description of variables Dependent variable: Both internal and international migrant households were asked four types of questions in the MGP migration survey regarding the expenditure of remittances on agricultural ex­ penses. These questions were related to the hiring of labourers, purchase of hybrid seeds, purchase of fertilizers or pesticides, and purchase of tube wells. Multiple choice answers were there for every question, these are “1 = Fully”, “2 = Partially”, “3 = Not at all” and “9 = Not Appli­ cable”.