 As a reult these practices are instrumental in maxi­ mizing returns while mitigating risks stemming from external produc­ tion shocks (Giller et al., 2015) and in altering the overall risk-return trade-offs (Hurley et al., 2018; Hauk et al., 2017). Thus, to address how optimal land allocation should occur among Fig. 2. The average productivity (kg ha−1) (a) and profitability (INR ha−1) (b) (represented by the dot) and their inter-temporal variation (95 % confidence interval limits, 1.96+/- standard error) during the 14-year long-term experiment among different tillage and cropping system combinations. CT: Conventional tillage, ZT: Zero tillage, PB: Bed planting, MWMb: Maize-wheat-mungbean system, MMuMb: Maize-mustard-mungbean, MCS: Maize-chickpea-Sesbania, MMS: Maize-maize- Sesbania system. H.S. Nayak et al. European Journal of Agronomy 162 (2025) 127436 5 various cropping systems to achieve specific targeted yield or profit­ ability at designated levels of risk, the study employed modern portfolio theory and quadratic optimization techniques (as proposed by Suk­ charoen and Leatham, 2016) to find treatment combinations that may not have been initially considered. For example, at system level ~20 % land area under PB-MWMb and rest in ZT-MMuMb can generate ~14, 000 INR more return as compared to ~10 % area under PB-MWMb and rest under ZT-MMS. It is specifically important for an on-station long term trials to do similar risk assessments to suggest alternatives that consider all possible farmer profiles (from very risk averse to risk neutral) and all possible options, the farmers can opt, or the cropping system prevalent in the geography (Khedwal et al., 2023) and thereby providing results that may be applicable in real world on-farm condi­ tions. The farmers in the North-western Indo-Gangetic plains are more progressive and do farming for generating more profit. Under such condition a more profit generating combinations can be opted. How­ ever, if a region is dominated by small holder farmers, with less risk-taking ability, as in Eastern India, a less risky combinations can be advised. Moreover, our study’s comparison of cropping systems revealed distinct yield and profitability outcomes over the long run, showcasing varied risk-return profiles (as depicted in Figs. 2 and 4). This highlights the significance of considering not only productivity and profitability but also the associated risk factors when making decisions about crop­ ping system choices and land allocation. Soil mediated changes are considered as major pathway for out­ comes associated with crop diversification. The specific combinations of crops within a cropping system exert a pronounced influence on various soil properties, the prevalence of soil microorganisms, biological fertility, and the soil’s capacity to supply nutrients (McDaniel et al., 2014).