com Indian Farming 89 January 2025 System diversification for sustainable livelihoods in the north eastern Himalayan region of India Sanjeev Kumar1, Ruchika Chaudhary2, Aastika Pandey3, Khushboo Devi3 and Subhash Babu3* ¹Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel University of Agriculture and Technology, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh 250 110 ²Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur, Rajasthan 313 001 3ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 About 72% area of the north eastern region is covered with hills and mountains. The effective land holding available for agriculture (~15%) in the region is much less than India's national average (~45%). Hilly land is ~ 3-4 times poor in production compared to the plain fertile land. This poses a great challenge to the livelihood of hill farmers. To overcome these challenges, there is an urgent need to design sustainable crop production models, which minimize the farming risk and ensures livelihood security. The most innovative approach to enhance the agricultural productivity is system diversification which includes practices like sustainable intensification, moisture conservation measures, agroforestry, integrated farming systems and organic farming. Keywords: Crop, Diversification, Farming system, Hilly terrain T HE north eastern region (NER) of India spans ~ 26.3 Mha. The region’s landscape is a blend of about 18.37 Mha of hilly terrain and 7.84 Mha of plains. The distinctive geography of the northeast region (NER) showcases a variety of altitudinal zones: low-altitude areas comprise an impressive 56% of the region, mid- altitude regions make up 33%, and high-altitude zones account for the remaining portion. Rainfed agriculture, predominantly centered around rice monocropping, covers over 80% of the cultivated land. Approximately, 84% of the soil in the region is acidic and low in available phosphorus and zinc but high to medium in available nitrogen and potash, further complicating the agricultural productivity. Surface water is the primary source of irrigation in the region, leading to a lower water-use efficiency. The region’s agriculture is mostly rainfed, with many areas experiencing only one cropping cycle per year, often during the kharif season. As a result, the cropping intensity is low, at approximately 131.4%, primarily due to mono-cropping and subsistence farming. Hence, system diversification presents a potential solution to address these challenges by reducing the reliance on monocropping, enhancing ecological resilience, promoting higher income and improving the food security of the region. Introduction of high-value crops can enhance the productivity, while adoption of traditional practices such as crop rotation can improve soil health and pest management. Furthermore, some crops like buckwheat, with relatively higher stress tolerance, are emerging as key players in boosting the winter productivity.