 The ICAR-NBAIM has started a service for registering microorganisms with novel traits under which a total of 6 microorganisms viz. Piriformispora indica, Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. kenyae, Bacillus thuringiensis subsp. israelensis, Trichoderma asperellum, Trichoderma afroharzianum, and Chryseobacterium sediminis were registered. Insect resources ICAR-NBAIR National Insect Museum now holds around 2.40 lakh specimens with addition of 4,786 insect specimens during 2023. Forty-four species of insects and one species of entomopathogenic nematode which are new, were collected and described. The list of new species (44) includes 35 species of parasitic wasps and an entomopathogenic nematode apart from other pest insect species. Majority of these species were recovered from the biodiversity rich hotspot areas such as Western Ghats, North Eastern states and Andaman and Nicobar group of islands. All these new discoveries were formally named and described in scientific journals. The new discoveries are important since millions of insect species on the planet are on the brink of extinction due to profound anthropogenic impacts. The discoveries help greatly in understanding the biodiversity and managing the insect pests in India. The Bureau is maintaining 137 live insect species germplasm including 106 parasitiods, 14 predators, 16 host insects/pests and 1 detritivore for supply to various stakeholders. PGR Policy ICAR-NBPGR and PPV&FR Authority, New Delhi organized First Global Symposium on Farmer Rights during September 12-15, 2023. Policy inputs were provided for Kumming Montreal Global Biodiversity Targets (KM-GBF). Agenda items for 10th GB of ITPGRFA focused mainly on enhancement of MLS, sustainable use, compliance; draft Document ISO 17317: Biodiversity: Guidance for the characterization of products based on native species (SSD 20); Second Report on Compliance submitted to FAO (online). ICAR-NBPGR participated in 5th meeting of the Compliance Committee of the ITPGRFA from March 28-29, 2023 at Rome, Italy and also in ITPGRFA Consultative Process on Enhancement of MLS from May 30-June 1, 2023 at Pranrgins, Geneva and from July 10-14, 2023 at Rome. IC Allotment Information System IC Allotment Information System was launched for public use by Dr Mangala Rai (Former DG, ICAR) and Dr Himanshu Pathak (DG, ICAR) on Aug 1, 2023 on the occasion of 48th Foundation Day of NBPGR. IC Allotment Information System is the online system (http://pgrinformatics.nbpgr.ernet.in/ic) developed, maintained and hosted by ICAR-NBPGR for the purpose of digitization of IC number requisition and allotment. The objective of this system is to make the process of IC number requisition and allotment easy, quick, transparent and paperless. Status of IC requisition can be tracked by the users.