 need to be refined and validated for soil health management in diverse agro-ecologies. In order to enhance water productivity, (i) promotion of less water consuming crops (ii) promotion of efficient irrigation methods including piped network for water conveyance (iii) promotion of solar photovoltaic pumping systems for groundwater pumping (iv) conjunctive use of rain, surface and groundwater resources (v) encouraging community/group tube wells for efficient use of groundwater resources (vi) canal automation for improving water productivity in irrigated ecosystems and (vii) use of Internet of Things (IoT) enabled Sensor based Smart Irrigation Management System for precise irrigation water application and efficient use of water need to be standardized and upscaled through proper convergence mechanisms. Crop diversification should also be promoted to achieve low water foot prints in intensive agricultural ecosystems. The changing climate would further reduce the availability of fresh water for irrigation of crops. Hence, the district climate change adaptation plans need to be developed and risk assessment at sub-district level which will enable prioritization of resilient practices in the district. Under strategic research of Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 279 NICRA, germplasm collected, screened and genes identified in several crops for different climatic stresses should be used in breeding programs to develop new climate resilient varieties. The NICRA model villages need to be expanded in more risk prone districts as per the revised risk and vulnerability assessment through convergence mechanisms with DAFW, MoRD, Corporates, NGOs and MoAHF&D. Establishment of India-Flux Network with trained manpower for estimating emissions at landscape level for major cropping systems is need of the day to generate accurate and precise data on GHGs from agriculture sector. Development of climate resilient livestock modules using indigenous breeds, life cycle analysis for estimating carbon foot prints and digital tools for pest prediction are some of the future activities contemplated to deal with changing climate in agriculture sector. Upscaling of climate smart agriculture through large scale adoption of proven farming system models, organic/natural farming practices and conservation agriculture is very much essential to meet the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). 5. Conclusion As the agricultural development progressed, the food production increased substantially but with a heavy cost to soil health and the environment. Widespread land degradation, spatial and temporal variability of monsoon rainfall resulting in frequent drought and floods, deteriorating soil health, low nutrient and water use efficiency and low water productivity are some of the major challenges in the agriculture today.