 If the rain occurs during Swati nakshatra (during middle of November), it helps in better growth of crop at flag-leaf stage. This practice is very much remunerative to the farmers. Keywords: rabi sorghum, Gokul Ashtami, Swati nakshatra, flag- leaf stage Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Spraying of cow urine on sorghum crop Farmers of Pandharpur tehsil of Solapur district do not follow recommended dose of fertilizers. This results in yellowing of leaves of sorghum at flag-leaf stage, thereby reducing the photosynthetic activity and leading to low harvest of grain yield. To overcome this problem, Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  farmers spray cow urine in sorghum crop. Keywords: cow urine, sorghum, photosynthetic activity, flag leaf stage, fertilizers 2303 Judging yield of rabi sorghum with tamarind flowering There is assumption among the farmers of Solapur and Ahmednagar districts that when there is good flush of flowers of tamarind then the rabi sorghum yield is expected to be very good. Keywords: rabi sorghum, tamarind Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Sowing of pigeonpea in March for green pods Farmers of Dhule district in Maharashtra sow pigeonpea in March and the green pods are harvested for selling in Surat market from June onwards which fetches very high price. There is a great demand for green pods of pigeonpea which is utilized for table purpose. By considering the market demand, farmers have started sowing of pigeonpea in March as an off- season crop. Keywords: pigeonpea, green pods, table purpose, off-season Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Sowing of soaked groundnut pods This practice is followed in some parts of Dhule tehsil of Dhule district of Maharashtra. Groundnut pods are soaked in water for 2 hours and then bagged over night. Next day it is sown in the furrows opened by wooden plough. This gives good yield of groundnut. Keywords: groundnut, overnight soaking, wooden plough, good yield Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of bamboo stick for harvesting of groundnut pods Harvesting of groundnut is needed to be completed within a certain time period. This is a tedious job, especially during kharif because of labour problem. So to complete this operation within time, farmers of Malshiras and Karmala tehsil of Solapur district use bamboo sticks for harvesting groundnut pod.