 • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 32 Sushil Kumar Shukla*, Dushyant Mishra, G Pandey and Shailendra Rajan Rejuvenating old and unproductive mango orchards for enhanced farmers’ income India is a leading mango producer, producing 21.80 million MT from 2.25 million ha, accounting for 45% of total fruit production in India. Though India is a major mango producer, exports are extremely limited due to quality factors. The main concern about mango export is poor quality standards, which limit India’s share of the international market. Old and unproductive orchards with huge tree size and without proper canopy management is the major reason responsible for poor mango productivity and quality, especially the fruit size. Such orchards account for 35-40% of total area in mango growing belts. Technology F ruit trees, invariably, after a certain period of successful production, have a tendency to lose their productivity and quality, making the orchards unproductive and non-remunerative. Replacing the old and senile orchards through replanting is a long term strategy which requires many years to reach the desired level of productivity. Rejuvenation technology for such unproductive trees offers many benefits, such as early and quality production from such trees through better light penetration and efficient utilization of available space and inputs. Keeping this in view, a technology for rejuvenating old and unproductive mango orchards has been developed at ICAR-CISH, Lucknow, refining the old rejuvenation technology, developed around 20 years back. Identification of unproductive mango orchards for rejuvenation If yield records show that trees have consistently performed poorly over the last five years. Besides this, trees which have grown over-size, become dense with branches crossing each other, allowing little sunlight to penetrate inside the canopy and fruiting limited only to the outer periphery. Such orchards, at around 45 to 60 years of age, are ideal for rejuvenation. Very old trees with low vigour, or with hollow stem, heavily infested with pests and diseases or poorly performing trees due to poor soil and climatic conditions may not be suitable for rejuvenation.