 The mouth of the first compartment is closed to regulate the flow of water towards the second compartment (Upper Kinnaur, North West Himalayas). Verma (1998) 33 Construction of Kuhls (water channels) for irrigation It is one of the common ways to channelize water to a crop from a water channel of the river up to some distance of upstream and led along a contour so that it can flow to the fields by gravity. In dry temperate zones kuhls (wooden water channels) are made by making notches at the natural water sources and water is diverted to the fields to different terraces using natural gravitational flow of water. In lower areas of Himachal Pradesh, bamboo pipes are commonly used as irrigation channels on small depressions/small nala. In upper Kinnaur, khuls are simply dug in ground to regulate the flow of water (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 34 Dividing the fields into sub-plots for irrigation water management Fields are divided into smaller sub-plots for irrigation, otherwise land being sandy, water percolates immediately through one large plot. To stop water, sub-plots are made on slopping land. The same practice is also observed during vegetable cultivation in the Spiti valley (Spiti and Kinnaur of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 9 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 35 Use of Pang (Spang) grass for controlling seepage and side losses in water tanks and irrigation Kuhls Pang (Spang) grass is used as inner laying of Zings (water ponds) and irrigation kuhls for checking percolation losses owing to its non-permeability properties similar to that of polythene sheet or cement lining (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 36 Pitcher irrigation for establishment of seelings It is a technique of water management, wherein earthen pitchers with holes on one side are embedded near the rootzone of newly planted seedlings to provide it with the required amount of water in a steady way. This technique prevents the loss of water due to evaporation or seepage and helps in better plant stand. Some farmers bury bushes in a chess board pattern to protect the melon plants from getting buried by shifting sands in arid Rajasthan (Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 37 Nadi (village pond) for water harvesting Nadi (village pond) is constructed for storing water available from adjoining natural catchements during the rainy rainy season (kharif). It is the oldest practice practiced by the farming community as a common source of water harvesting. The capacity of Nadis generally ranges between 1200 to 1500 m3 depending upon physiographic conditions and rainfall pattern. This nadi improves the ground water table. The tank bed of the nadi is used for sowing of crops later when the water recedes.