 In order to impart and strengthen necessary skills, hands on training and first-hand experience in observation and manipulation of the materials, six specialized laboratories, one each for Horticulture, Forestry, Genetics & Biotechnology, Soil Science & Agronomy, Plant Pathology, besides an Undergraduate laboratory were established. These laboratories Bundelkhand region. Emphasis has been also given on development of precision farming practices, organic cultivation techniques, germ plasm collection, post-harvest management and value addition in vegetable crops. A demonstration block has been established at the University Vegetable Research and Production Farm in an area of approximately 5000 m2 for exhibition of vegetable production technologies to the students, farmers, visitors and other stakeholders of vegetable sector. Improved as well as popular varieties of following vegetables developed by the public and private sector were demonstrated in this block with recommended scientific package of practices: S.No. Vegetable No. of varieties demonstrated 1. Amaranth 04 2. Bassela 02 3. Beet root 01 4. Bitter gourd 02 5. Bottle gourd 03 6. Brinjal 01 7. Broad bean 03 8. Broccoli 01 9. Cabbage 01 10. Carrot 01 11. Cauliflower 02 12. Chilli 01 13. Coriander 05 14. Cowpea 04 15. Cucumber 01 16. Garlic 01 17. Ivy Gourd 01 18. Long Melon 01 19. Methi 04 20 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY have been equipped for effective practical teaching in different disciplines. A computer laboratory has been developed also with 09 Desktop Computers with BSNL broadband connection. 8.4 Library and IT facilities The University library has been established with the aim to provide access to its printed resource such as books, journals and reports primarily for the use of faculty, staff and students. The University provides IT facilities to enable readers to consult electronic resources, catalogues, and image collections, to make use of word-processing, and for general broadband internet and email access. The University has also taken e-learning initiative as an attempt to enable students to learn at their own pace, Students in laboratories 21 Annual Report 2016-17 and style with the help of e-learning courses developed by ICAR. These e-courses provide an interactive, multi-sensory experience, combining the simplicity of classroom teaching with a powerful visual medium. 8.5 Pre-fabricated Academic and Hostel Block The University construction agency NBCC has built Academic and Hostel Block using Pre-fabricated structures. The academic block covers around 500 Sq m area and Hostels have a covered area of about 1550 sqm. Four laboratories viz. Horticulture, Soil Science & Agronomy, Genetics, Biotechnology, Physiology & Biochemistry and Forestry have been established in this block, besides classrooms. The hostel block will provide accommodation to 100 students.