 Ensure provisions for easy issue of licenses to FPOs to trade in inputs. a. Provide collateral free loans upto Rs.25 lakh to the FPOs. b. Rate of interest for FPOs should be at par with the rate charged to individual farmers for crop loans. c. Group insurance schemes should be established for members of FPO. d. Extend external commercial borrowings (ECBs) for FPOs. e. Single state-wide license with every point of sale for all agri. inputs which will facilitate FPOs dealing with agro- inputs. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 163 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 6. Innovate livestock marketing Awareness among small and marginal farmers about marketing prospects in livestock is highly skewed. a. To conduct certificate course on creating awareness. b. Develop regulated livestock market for selling live animals. a. Conduct local vocational courses for creating awareness among small and marginal livestock keepers about rearing, marketing, bank loan facilities and establishment of cattle, buffaloes, sheep, goats and poultry farms. b. Develop Apps related to livestock management to disperse quick scientific information. c. Establish indigenous milk cooperatives for facilitating production and marketing of desi (A2) milk. 7. Accelerate marketing for poultry products Partially existing demand for poultry products in the state Promotion of consumption of poultry products, wherever possible a. Creating awareness regarding nutritive value of poultry products through media and mass coverage. b. Promoting local / indigenous poultry breeds and their products. c. Trade Development: 1. Doubling the current level of exports Share of India in world exports is very low and hardly 1.5 % on an average during the last decades. Farm level awareness on SPS measures is still very poor. Double the current level of 1.70 lakh crores worth of agri. exports within 5 years. Boost to RTAs(Regional Tariff Agreements) to address the issue of Non- Technical Barriers such as TBT and SPS Measures and to attract investment a. Promote Crop Stewardship Programs, Good Agricultural Practices (GAP) and Certification procedures. b. Promote Global Commodity Boards like California Walnuts, Washington Apples for our own farm produce like Talala Kesar Kheri or Kutchi Dates. c. Promote quality consciousness and health safety issues among farmers for both domestic and international trade. d. Policy and Investment Requirements and Role of Government State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 164 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 1. Zeroing in on water management problems Currently, 57.52 % of area of Gujarat is under rainfed agriculture. Only 20 % of the rainfall gets utilized in the state. Promote rainwater harvesting. Enhance groundwater irrigation efficiency.