 Plants grown with FYM @ 10 tonnes/ha and poultry manure accumulated more nutrient uptake especially phosphorus compared to other treatments. Root size was higher in FYM than poultry manure. Maize-plants grown with poultry manure, pig manure and biochar at 10 tonnes/ ha showed better growth and nutrient accumulation in acidic soils of Meghalaya. New rice RC Maniphou 13: This variety is a derivative of cross between Leimaphou (KD-2-6-3) × Akhanphou. It is semi-dwarf, fertilizer-responsive high -yielding variety suitable for main kharif season under Manipur conditions. It is photo-insensitive with yield potential of 7-8 tonnes/ha and is tolerant to leaf and neck blast diseases. fish against the epizootic ulcerative syndrome (EUS). The molecular characterization of A. invadans from randomly collected 972 infected fish samples confirmed presence of a single isolate of the fungus in all fish species across the regions. Lab study, of six-week-old Labeo rohita fingerlings fed with WS supplement showed increased tolerance of Labeo rohita fingerling against A. invadans. The WS supplemented feed also significantly decreased blood glucose level and enzymatic parameters (GOT, GPT, ALP), while improved total blood protein, hemoglobin and nitroblue tetrazolium (NBT) level in fish. Further, the modeling studies suggested significant immunostimulation capability of Withania somnifera against EUS disease of fish. ISLAND AND COASTAL REGION Quality seed production and dissemination: Under the ICAR Seed Project –73 q Breeder and Truthfully Labelled Seed of improved varieties of paddy and pulses (paddy,69 q and pulses, 4 q) was produced during the reported period under farmers’ participatory mode at farmers fields in Diglipur, North Andaman separately. In addition, 120 kg breeder seed and 600 kg TFL seed of the Institute’s recommended rice varieties was also given to the Department of Agriculture, Andaman and Nicobar Islands for further multiplication. Besides, about 3 kg brinjal seed of CARI Brinjal 1 (a bacterial wilt resistant brinjal) was also produced. Field view of RC Maniphou-13 Shading effect on growth and yield of turmeric: The relative shading effect of different local cucurbit landraces (bottle gourd, ridge gourd, pumpkin and bitter gourd) was assessed on turmeric yield (RCT 1) at Mizoram. Turmeric rhizome yield was significantly higher (15.2%-17.9%) with increased shading from cucurbit canopy. Cropping system effect on system productivity and production efficiency: Study on diversification of rice through leguminous crops, tested at Sikkim, revealed that rice-fenugreek (leafy vegetable)-maize (green cobs) recorded maximum system productivity (82.2 tonnes/ha), followed by rice-vegetable pea-maize (green cob). Similarly, production efficiency (25.3 kg/ ha/day) was higher in rice-fenugreek (leafy vegetable)- maize (green cobs), followed by rice-vegetable pea- maize (green cobs) and lowest was under rice- buckwheat.