 • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incur- ring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any conse- quences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Editorial 2 Sustaining pulses production through effective weed management options 3 Sonaka Ghosh, T K Das and Ashutosh Upadhyaya Precision fertigation: The key component for maximizing productivity 7 Tejas Mangesh Lingavale, H T Jadhav and D P Pawar Laser land leveling: A sustainable approach towards resource 11 conservation technology Raghubar Sahu, Devesh Kumar, R K Sohane and Rakesh Kumar Package of practices for organic mustard in Bundelkhand 14 B Gangwar and Deepmala Jain Rooftop rainwater harvesting: An innovative approach towards 18 resource conservation Raghubar Sahu, Dharmendra Kumar, R K Sohane and Rakesh Kumar Linseed: An oilseed crop harnessing the power of nature 22 Parkash Verma, Supriya, Rakesh Kumar, Birendra Kumar and Bal Krishna Semi-artificial seed production technique of Anabas 26 testudineus (kawai) in pond Kamal Sarma, Jaspreet Singh, S K Ahirwal and Tarkeshwar Kumar Goat health and sustainable goat farming in eastern India 29 Rashmi Rekha Kumari, Pankaj Kumar, Manoj Kumar Tripathi and Jaspreet Singh Success of millet cultivation in eastern Himalayas 33 Supriya*, Magan Singh, Rakesh Kumar, Parkash Verma and Birendra Kumar Alternate cropping system: A tool to enhance income 36 L R Meena, N Subash, Devendra Kumar, Sampat Ram Meena and Adarsh Kumar Meena Sh Paramjit Singh: A torch bearer of entrepreneurship in 41 agricultural custom hiring Manpreet Jaidka, Amandeep Singh Brar and Ramanjit Kaur S eed certification in agriculture is an important part of quality assurance system which ensures that seed lots meet strict standards. General Seed Certification Standards are applicable to all crops which are eligible for certification. The field and seed standards for individual crops, constitute the minimum seed certification standards. A good seed promises a good harvest, and effects of other inputs depend on the quality of seed. Therefore, availability of quality seed to Indian farmers is basic to achieve the goal of ‘Aatma Nirbhar Bharat-Krishi’. Systematic arrangements for large scale seed certification in India began after enactment of Seeds Act, 1966. On the basis of the recommendations of the Seed Review Team, 1967, the state Governments were advised to set up the State Seed Certification Agencies. Seed certification refers to the process, through which the quality of seed is ensured by maintaining a certain level of genetic purity and identity of a notified kind/variety.