 Project Directorates, ATARI and their Directors 180 7. National Research Centres and their Directors 181 8. All-India Coordinated Research Projects and Network Programmes 182 9. Agricultural Universities 183 10. Total Number of Employees in the ICAR and its Research Institutes 185 and Number of SC, ST and Other Backward Classes 11. ICAR Awards 186 Acronyms 195 Index 198  Indian Council of Agricultural Research President, ICAR Society, and : Shri Radha Mohan Singh (Till 30 May 2019) Union Minister of Agriculture and Shri Narendra Singh Tomar (From 30 May 2019) Farmers Welfare Union Ministers of State for Agriculture : Shri Parshottam Rupala (Till 30 May 2019; From 30 May 2019) Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat (Till 30 May 2019) Smt Krishna Raj (Till 30 May 2019) Shri Kailash Choudhary (From 30 May 2019) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR : Dr Trilochan Mohapatra Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR : Shri Sushil Kumar Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, : Shri B. Pradhan DARE/ICAR The Mandate of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research  Plan, Undertake, Coordinate and Promote Research and Technology Development for Sustainable Agriculture.  Aid, Impart and Coordinate Agricultural Education to enable Quality Human Resource Development.  Frontline Extension for Technology Application, Adoption, Knowledge Management and Capacity Development for Agri-based Rural Development.  Policy, Cooperation and Consultancy in Agricultural Research, Education and Extension. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is the harbinger of Green Revolution in India and instrumental in subsequent advances in agriculture sector in India through its significant achievements in research, extension and education. It has empowered the country to increase the production of food grains by 5.4 times, horticultural crops by 10.1 times, fish by 15.2 times, milk 9.7 times and eggs 48.1 times, since 1951, thus making a visible impact on the national food and nutritional security. The ICAR has played a pivotal role in promoting excellence in higher education in agriculture, while also engaging in innovative areas of science and technology development by its research, which is acknowledged nationally and internationally. In the recent years, ICAR has been playing an important and proactive role in the agricultural technology dissemination through its strong network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and supporting farmers in all possible ways. ICAR is sturdily contributing towards the efforts and initiatives of government to double the farmers’ income by 2022 by its research on farming systems, policy inputs and coordination with state agencies. To increase the production of food crops in India, the ICAR led the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in developing location-specific new high yielding varieties/hybrids and their matching production and protection technologies of food and horticultural crops.