 In this process, organizational climate of NARS institutes ought to support effective training transfer by scientists back at work place after undergoing capacity building programmes. Hence a research study on “Assessment of effectiveness and training transfer of Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) at NARS” was undertaken with the following specific objectives. Objectives  To assess the perception of CAFT participants and CAFT Directors towards the effectiveness of CAFT programmes  To capture the training transfer by CAFT participants and the resultant transfer outcomes  To assess the perception of peer group and deputing authorities towards performance of CAFT participants  To suggest strategies to improve the design, pattern and content of CAFT programmes Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 13 Limitations of the study  The project was time bound (June – October, 2012). The CAFT centres and the CAFT participants are spread over across the country. Hence collection of requisite data from all the relevant stakeholders within the short period of time was a constraint.  Time restrictions limited the methodology to mailed questionnaire survey, follow up focus group discussions and workshop. The conventional impact assessment methods of pre and post assessment, and trained and untrained comparisons could not be used because of wide geographical spread of the respondents.  The study covered purposively restricted its coverage to CAFT programmes conducted during 2008-09 to 2010-11 with a rationale that a minimum time frame is required for training transfer to workplace by the participants.  The data on most of the aspects is based on the recall memory of the respondents. Though all care was taken to structure the questionnaire to avoid redundancies and ambiguities, errors due to memory bias and subjectivity of responses cannot be ruled out. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 14 RESEARCH METHODOLOGY Locale, sampling procedure and data collection The study covered different constituent organizations of National Agricultural Research System (NARS). It was carried out using ex-post facto research design during the year 2012. The study had six of respondents; the participants of completed CAFT programmes, participants of ongoing CAFT programmes, CAFT beneficiaries with origin from same NARS organization, CAFT Directors, peer group and deputing authorities of CAFT participants. The instrument given in annexure-I was administered among the participants of the CAFT programmes. The participants who underwent capacity building during 2007-08 to 2009-10 were selected as the population for this survey.