 l Adaptive trials for zero-till drilled, strip-till drilled and raised-bed planted wheat were conducted by the CIAE, Bhopal, at three villages, Kardhel, Chached and Pipaliya Gajju, on farmers’ fields in the participatory mode. The farmers could raise good crops with recommended cultural practices. l CIRCOT variable speed Double Roller Gin technology has been commercialized to convert conventional DR gins for productivity increase on an average from 45 kg/hr to 65 kg/hr through M/s U.D. Patel & Co, Mumbai. l CIRCOT has successfully transferred to M/s Hanjer Agro and BioTech Energies Co-operative Society Ltd, Surat, the technology of converting textile mill waste into compost. The firm is currently producing around 100 tonnes of compost per month and selling it at the rate of Rs 2,000/tonne. l Technologies know-how for preparation of Melfolac, a wood-varnish composition, gasket shellac compound, water-soluble lac, spiritless varnish, air-drying insulating varnish, FRP sheet-based as two different compositions, were transferred by the ILRI, Ranchi. l The MPUAT, Udaipur centre, had installed smokeless durable improved cookstoves in 50 houses in 5 selected villages. The models of the durable stoves included were single-pot stoves called Chetak and double-pot stoves called Udairaj. The thermal efficiency of Chetak and Udairaj stoves with desi babul (Acacia nilotica) was found around 22% and 28% in the laboratory. The cost of the single-pot stove was estimated at Rs 175 and of double pot at Rs 230. All beneficiaries were of the opinion that there was substantial reduction in smoke level inside the kitchen; and 80% agreed that there was significant saving in fuel-wood consumption compared to traditional stove. l An industrial prototype of SAF-750 thresher fabricated for commercial production. l The technology of converting textile mill waste into compose transferred from the CIRCOT to a society at Surat. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 152 Agricultural Human Resource Development CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT STATE AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat l A new degree programme in Agri-business Management to run as a professional course was introduced. l Admissions were made open to candidates from other states including the north east states to discourage inbreeding and encourage competitive spirit. l AAU website was launched during the year. The information bulletin and the application forms for admission are now available on line. l Faculty of Home Science implemented the revised M.Sc. curriculum. l Tea Industrial Work Experience Programme (TIWEP), Rural Agricultural Work Experience Programme (RAWEP) for Agriculture, Rural Home Work Experience Programme and In-plant Training (RHWEP) for Home Science and Fishery Work Experience Programme (FWEP) for Fishery implemented for the students pursuing UG programmes. Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University, Hyderabad l Internal and external evaluation system for B. Tech (Dairying) and B.