 NitiAyog classified 256 districts (out of a total of 731 districts) with 1,592 blocks as water-stressed. To tackle this situation, a time-bound mission-mode water conservation campaign, involving various Ministries of the Central and State Governments has been launched in the aforesaid blocks, under the Government of India's Jal Shakti Abhiyan. One of the key components of the Jal Shakti Abhiyan is to facilitate/promote safe reuse of waste-water in agriculture. From India's perspective, as per NitiAyog, approximately 70% of States treat less than half of their waste-waters. Hence, to enable safe re-use of waste waters for meeting country's vast agricultural demand, it is imperative to boost low-cost decentralized waste water treatment technologies. In this context, I am glad to know that ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute has taken the lead in developing and successfully operationalizing an innovative, decentralized and highly cost-effective waste-water treatment technology, JalopcharTM, which has a distinctive edge over the other resource- intensive conventional technologies. ujsUæ flag rksej NARENDRA SINGH TOMAR Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k] xzkeh.k fodkl rFkk iapk;rh jkt ea=kh Hkkjr ljdkj Ñf"k Hkou] ubZ fnYyh MINISTER OF AGRICULTURE & FARMERS’ WELFARE, RURAL DEVELOPMENT AND PANCHAYATI RAJ GOVERNMENT OF INDIA KRISHI BHAWAN, NEW DELHI Office: 'G' Wing, Ground Floor, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi- 110001, Tel.: 011-23782373, 23782327 Fax: 011-23385876 Resi.: 3 Krishna Menon Marg, New Delhi-110001, Ph.: 011-23794697 / 98, Fax: 011-23794696 I compliment the ICAR and the developer of the JalopcharTM technology for addressing the country's need and bringing out this success story "JalopcharTM- An Eco-friendly Waste Water Treatment Technology" and wish them all success for its pan-India deployment in the times to come. (Narendra Singh Tomar) dSyk'k pkS/jh KAILASH CHOUDHARY Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k jkT; ea=kh Hkkjr ljdkj MINISTER OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE & FARMERS WELFARE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA MESSAGE The world is running out of clean and fresh water to feed ever-growing global population. Globally, about 2 billion people, living in the world’s drylands are estimated to be impacted by water scarcity. As per Niti Ayog, more than 600 million people in India are facing acute water shortage as critical groundwater resource, which accounts for 40% of our water supply is undergoing depletion at unsustainable rates. Further, in terms of the Water Quality Index, India is currently ranked as 120 among 122 countries. In the face of water scarcity and climate change, our farming community needs to look for alternatives to irrigate crops. Wastewater is a valuable but an untapped resource till now in many countries. In fact treated wastewater is already emerging as a key component in the overall water management programs of various countries as its judicious use can help reduce water stress and achieve food security.