 Abstraction of surface and groundwater resources for irrigation is common, along with rainwater harvesting in some regions. It should be recognized that geographic regions have a natural predisposition for certain types of agriculture, which reflects water availability inter alia (Rijsberman, 2006). For example, the water footprint (WF) (indicating the direct and indirect consumption or use of water) per kg beef produced under the Irish pasture-based system has been estimated at 8,391 L kg (the majority of which is ‘green water’—utilized rainfall, as opposed to ‘blue water’—abstracted ground- or surface waters) (Murphy et al., 2017). Conversely, the WF of beef produced in Brazil in either grazed of mixed systems exceeds 20,000 L kg (Gerben-Leenes et al., 2013). This calls into question the equitability of importing produce from less water-efficient to more efficient systems. This ‘offshoring of pollution’ (Li and Zhou, 2017) has occurred in other industries where production is shifted to low-wage or low-regulation countries, rather than those which are the most efficient or where the goods are actually consumed. While the goods and money exchanged may be displaced, the pollution remains in situ (Hoekstra, 2010). This is not restricted to water pollution, but to other environmental aspects such as habitat and biodiversity loss (Dalin and Rodríguez-Iturbe, 2016). Table 1 Drainage ditch characteristics and sediment and nutrient transport potential. Sediment Retention Potential Ditch Slope Phosphorus Retention Potential Calcareous Soils Al/Pa Ratio Non-Calcareous Soils Ca/Pa Ratio High 2% High >11.7 74 Moderate 2–5% Low <11.7 74 Low-Moderate 5% aMehlich test. Adapted from Shore M, Jordan P, Mellander PE, Kelly-Quinn M and Melland AR (2015) An agricultural drainage channel classification system for phosphorus management. Agriculture, Ecosystems and Environment 199: 2017–215; Shore M, Jordan P, Mellander PE, Kelly-Quinn M, Daly K, Sims JT, Wall DP and Melland AR (2016) Characterisation of agricultural drainage ditch sediments along the phosphorus transfer continuum in two contrasting headwater catchments. Journal of Soils and Sediments doi: 10.1007/s11368-015-1330-0. HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters 53 Summary The effects of agriculture on inland waters are significant, widespread, and diverse. While it is beyond the scope of this chapter to exhaustively document all scenarios, priority issues and processes have been outlined. Agriculture is a pivotal activity, underpinning and supporting human populations and societies. Therefore, there is a need to balance its essential, positive consequences (food and material production, employment, secondary industries, land stewardship, etc.) with its detrimental impacts.