 Sorghum grain is rich in minerals and array of vitamins, which can be traced in the aleurone and germ portion of the seed. Among several vitamins available, vitamin B complex is the major one and consuming sorghum regularly will reduce B complex-based disorders. Additionally, the soaking of the grains can induce the synthesis of vitamin C. The color of the grain is directly associated with the quantity of the mineral content such as the yellow grain has good quantity Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Scientific approaches Rural livelihood Rural income Women empowerment Mahatma's vision is our mission Energy-giving foods Disease-free life Environment-friendly Rural sustainability Healthy foods Humble foods Eat locally grown foods Experiment with diet 122 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR of carotenoids (beta-carotene, leutin and zeaxanthin). Among minerals, potassium, magnesium and copper are rich in the sorghum grain. Pearl millet is known for high quality nutritional profile. The high level of starch and glucose (Jambunathan and Subramanian 1988) in the pearl millet grain making it as an energy-giving food. It contains significant amount of essential amino acids such as threonine, cysteine, lysine, methionine, and tryptophan. Among fatty acids, oleic linoleic, and palmitic acids are the saturated and unsaturated acids available in the grain. The dietary fibre content (20.4%) of the pearl millet is about 150% and 20% more than rice and wheat, respectively. Pearl millet is a rich source of iron and zinc over any other millet crops and cereals (McDonough et al. 2000). The consumption of the pearl millet balances the acidity in the gut by forming alkalinity, a unique feature, to prevent stomach ulcers and related problems. Grain also contains strong anti-oxidants that can fight against the free-radicals and prevent several diseases including heart-related. The high level of magnesium in the pearl millet is known for controlling blood pressure, heart diseases and improving respiratory-related problems. Finger millet is a king of calcium source and the regular consumption of finger millet will enrich the calcium content in the body and helps for bone quality. Like pearl millet, finger millet also contains lysine, methionine and tryptophan in substantial quantity (Chandrasekara and Shahidi 2011; Devi et al. 2014). Of the 12% total dietary fibre in the grain, the insoluble dietary fibre content is 12% and soluble is 2% (Ramulu and Rao 1997). The high quality fibre food is very good for increasing the rate of nutrient absorption in the stomach, helps in reducing the blood lipids, prevents the colon cancer and improves the digestion (Tharanathan and Mahadevamma 2003). It is also noticed that germinated grain increases the haemoglobin content. The anti-oxidant rich grain extracts help in scavenging the free-radicals and have antimicrobial properties.