 Different processed products of carrots are carrot juice, carrot powder, carrot flakes, canned carrot, carrot candy, carrot halwa, carrot grits, carrot soup, carrot Dalia and fabricated baby foods. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 169 Carrot powder prepared by dehydrating carrots is often incorporated in traditional food products to enhance the nutritional value, and thereby produce value added products such as paratha, porridge and laddu. These processed carrot products are not only nutritionally adequate, but also qualitatively sound for an extended period. Ginger Ginger is one of the five most important spices of India, standing next to chilli, garlic, and turmeric. Ginger is an underground stem of the zingiberous herbaceous plant. Ginger rhizomes are available for harvesting every 7-9 months after planting and stages of maturity of the rhizome have a significant influence in its quality and processing. Ginger is commonly used as a food additive, and as spice, it is used in food preparation to impart its characteristic flavour. It has been attributed with antioxidant properties, proteolytic activity, and tenderizing effect. It has been attributed with antioxidant properties which widens its use in preservation of meat and meat products. Ginger has been used to treat numerous types of nausea and vomiting. Ginger’s therapeutic properties effectively stimulate circulation of the blood, remove toxins form the body, clean the bowels and kidneys, and nourish skin. Other uses for ginger root include the treatment of asthma, bronchitis, and other respiratory problems. Besides therapeutic properties, ginger has been attributed with antioxidant properties, proteolytic activity, and tenderizing effect. Ginger is used in various food preparations to impart its characteristic flavour and is probably the only spice being used in production of beverages like ginger beer, ginger ale and ginger wine. Although ginger production is very high, but due to lack of proper storage and transportation facilities, about 20 percent of fresh ginger crop gets damaged due to respiration and microbial ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 170 spoilage. Hence, it becomes necessary to process the surplus ginger in different preserved forms, which is available throughout the year. The different processed products from ginger include likes Paste, Candy, Preserve, Pickle, Chocolates, Beverages, Powder, Juice, Ice cream, Oleoresin etc. Fenugreek Leaves Fenugreek is a popular green leafy vegetable available in plenty, at lower cost during winter season. Blanching treatment is used to preserve the colour and nutritional value of GLVs. Fenugreek leaf powder obtained by dehydrating fenugreek leaves has been used to prepare paratha and saag. Potato Potato is a versatile food, which can be eaten as a staple food, as a complementary vegetable, as a snack item or processed into several forms, and in any of these roles, it enhances the nutritional quality of the diets of people.