 INFRASTRUCTURE 800 700 600 500 400 200 100 <A-OFVSO MXYaAS— S2O-vVHM-=EOC> 300 | 0 4 1 960 AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING EDUCATION 1965 Mechanization of farms — tractors, irrigation equipment, efficient harvesting and threshing machinery — has become inevitable with the introduction of high- yielding varieties since the sixties. The ICAR therefore established the research training and testing centres (RTTC) in different states which compiled information on indigenous tools, implements and machinery used by the farmers to understand the limitations of the existing operations. During the early seventies 5 zonal research centres (ZRC) had been established with a Coordinating centre at the IARI, New Delhi and replaced in the Sixth Plan with an All-India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Farm Implements and Machinery and 10 centres. An independent AICRP on Post-Harvest Technology to reduce losses, and add value to the produce, has also been established the same time. However, the first institute, the Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering (CIAE), Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh, in 1976 has been set up for developing appropriate mechanization, energy management and L agro-processing technologies. The AICRP Farm Implements and Machinery and ath : Post- Harvest Technology had also been 1970 om wee 1985 1990 1995 moved to the CIAE. B. Tech. m@ M. Tech. Ae , m Ph.D. At present, the activities relating to agricultural engineering are carried out at 6 institutes, 10 AICRPs and in a number of ad-hoc projects located nation-wide. At the Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology (CIRCOT), Bombay, research is exclusively conducted on the quality of fibres including cotton waste, and, at the Jute Technological Research Institute (JTRL), Calcutta, on processing of jute and development of diversified jute products. The Indian Lac Research Institute (ILRI), Ranchi, is unique in the world for development of technology related to production and processing of lac. To research on cottage-scale agro-processing, the Central Institute for Post- Harvest Engineering and Technology (CIPHET) has been set up in 1989 at Ludhiana. Another campus of CIPHET is being established at Abohar to concentrate on processing of fruits, vegetables and oilseeds. FARM IMPLEMENTS AND MACHINERY TILLAGE AND SOWING Well-equipped laboratories develop functional prototypes and commercial-grade technology and liaise with industries for commercial manufacturing.