 Training of extension functionaries/farmers on climate change adaptation and mitigation practices. Technologies available with KAU All regions Summary Recommendations: As much as Kerala’s natural resource endowments and socio-economic characteristics are distinct from that of the rest of the country, its problems and prospects in agriculture too are divergent from others. The absolute predominance of marginal and small farmers involved in crop production, livestock rearing and fishery are demanding small-farm solutions to the day today problems of farming. Considering this, this report presents a multi-pronged strategy to sustainably enhance incomes of farmers in the state. The task calls for comprehensive optimization of all factors of production besides integration of promising options such as production of high-yielding seeds/planting materials responsive to inputs, arresting the area decline under major crops through localized initiatives; strengthening 292 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 agricultural research, education and extension to leverage technological advancements; emphasis on vertical intensification of farming for higher yields from limited area; improving farm mechanization; adopting resource conservation technologies; stress on organic farming and agro-processing; developing value chains for better market linkages and promoting trade; boosting collective farming and micro-enterprises in agriculture; better coverage of farm insurance; strengthening agricultural marketing system; labor solutions to address its shortage; measures to ensure food safety; and other future thrust areas like strengthening agricultural statistics, developing livestock feed supply chains, promoting entrepreneurship in fishery and aquaculture and efficient governance for successful implementation of various government programs. In addition to the broad requirements mentioned above, some of the specific measures in this context include replacing costly human labour with machinery, improving collateral income from specialized practices like bee keeping, mushroom production, product diversification and value addition and adopting the most professional approaches in marketing. Organic farming and branded organic produce could increase farm gate revenues on a farmer cluster basis. Linking incentives to production could be another option on the part of planners and policymakers. Assuring realistic pricing structure of produce, credit linking at subsidized rates, and above all, farmer centric budget that takes care of reduced price of inputs and assured better returns of produce will serve as an impetus for not only for doubling the production but also sustained growth. Special emphasis is given to adopt scientific farming practices with due regard to the physiographic and agro-ecological characteristics of various regions and the niche crops grown.