 156 Hemidesmus indicus Indian sarsaparilla H-Anantmul B-Anantmul M-Anantmut G-Sariva Tel-Sugandhipala T-Nannari Kan-Sogade M-Naraninti O-Onontumulo The root is used as tonic, alterative, demulcent, diaphoretic, diuretic and blood purifier. The milky latex of the plant is used in relieving inflammation of eye. A slender, laticiferous twining, sometime prostrate or semi-erect shrub, occurring over the greater part of India from the upper gangetic plain east ward to Assam and through out central, western and southern India. 157 Hibiscus rosasinensis Shoe flower H- Jasun B-Joba M-Jasavanda G-Jasuva Tel-Dasana T-Semparuthi Kan-Dasavala Mal-Chembarathi O-Mondaro P-Jasum Crused flowers yield dark-purplish dye which was formerly employed for blackening shoes. The flowers are considered demulscent, emolient, refrigerant aphrodisiac and emmanegogue. Decoction of flower is given in bronchial catarrh. The leaves are emolient, apparient, anodyne and laxative. Decoction of leaves is used as a lotion in fever. Fresh root juice is given for gonorrhoea and powdered root for menorrhagia.Root is used in Mysore for certain diseases of cattle. An evergreen, woody glabrous, showy shrub, 5–8 feet high. The flowers solitary, axillary and bell- shaped. It is native of China. It is grown as an ornamental plant in gardens through out India and often planted as a hedge or fence plant. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 352 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 158 Hippophae rhamnides Sea- buck thorn H- Chuma, Tarwa P- Neicjhak Fruit is acidic and is made jelly with sugar.Syrup is used in lung complaints. Decoction is used for cutaneous eruption. It is a rich source of Vit-C (1250 mg/100g). Bark contains 3.06% yellow-fatty oil, twig and leaves contain 4.5% tannin. Dioceous, usually spinescent shrub or a small tree up to 40 feet high, occuring in the river belts of the drier ranges of the north- western Himalayas at altitude of 7000 to 12000 feet. 159 Holarrhena antidysenterica - H- Kurchi B- Kurchi Guj-Dhowda Tel-Pala T-Veppalli Kan-Beppale Mal-Kodagapala O-Kherwa P-Kewar A-Dhutkhuri The bark has astringent, antidysentric, anthelmintic, stomachic fabrifuge and tonic properties. It is used in the treatment of amoebic dysentery and diarrhoea. The principal alkaloid is conessine, a stenol etc. A deciduous laticiferous shrub or small tree, 30– 40 feet high with a clear bole of 10–20 feet, occurring almost through out India, up to an altitude of 4000 feet. It is specially abundant in the sub-Himalayan tract. 160 Holoptella integrifolia - H- Chilbil M-Vauli G-Kanjhu Tel-Thabasi T-Aya Kan-Thuvasi Mal-Aval O-Dauranja P-Rajain The wood is suitable for plywood, packing cases and boxes. The bark may be pulped, made hard-board and insulation board. The bark is mucilagenous and used in external application for rheumatism.