 yy It is suggested to clean farm implements, equipment and machineries before and after use as per the safety instructions yy While going to the market area for valid reasons, farmers should use face mask. Crowding should be avoided and social distancing (1.5-2 metres) should be maintained. While coming back, need to change clothes and wash hands with soap water or sanitizers by following the proper method of washing. yy If a person has symptoms of cough, cold, fever, headache, body ache etc. then keep him/her away from farm operations and immediately inform nearest health workers. yy As the rate of infection is reportedly higher during the second COVID wave, vaccination is encouraged and advised to benefit from the largest vaccination drive launched by the governments per slots for different age group category. yy Awareness creation on safety &preventive measures and home isolation guidelines to be continued to farmers/ farm women and 6 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS farm workers in rural areas. The guidelines issued by AIIMS/ AYUSH/ Ministries of Home Affairs/ Health, State and district administration may be adopted. General Advisory issued by Ministry of AYUSH Following are the advisories for enhancing immunity issued by Ministry of AYUSH (Ayurveda, Yoga & Naturopathy, Unani, Siddha and Homeopathy): a) Measures for Enhancing Immunity yy Drink warm water throughout the day. yy Daily practice of Yogasan, Pranayama and Meditation for at least 30 minutes. yy Spices like Turmeric, Cumin, Coriander and Garlic recommended in cooking. b) Simple Ayurvedic Procedures yy Nasal Application: Apply Sesame oil/Coconut oil or Ghee in both the nostrils (PratimarshNasya) in morning and evening. yy Oil Pulling Therapy: Take 1 table sppon Sesame or Coconut oil in mouth. Do not drink, swish in the mouth for 2-3 minutes and spit it off followed by warm water rinse. This can be done once or twice a day. c) Ayurvedic Immunity Enhancing Tips yy Take Chyavanprash 10gm (1 tsf) in the morning. Diabetics should take sugar free Chyavanprash. yy Drink Herbal Tea/ Decoction (Kadha) made from Basil, Cinnamon, Black Pepper, Dry Ginger and Raisin- once or twice a day. Add jiggery (Natural sugar) and/or fresh Lemon juice to your taste, if needed. yy Golden milk- half tea spoon Turmeric powder in 150 ml hot milk- once or twice a day. 7 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS d) Actions during Dry Cough/ Sore throat yy Steam inhalation with fresh Mint leaves or Caraway Seeds (Ajwain) can be practiced once in a day. yy Clove powder mixed with natural sugar/honey can be taken 2-3 times a day in case of cough or throat irritation. yy These measures generally treat normal dry cough and sore throat. However, it is best to consult doctors if these symptoms persist.