 Germplasm accessions collected across different crop-groups were highest in vegetable, followed by cereals, medicinal and aromatic plants (M&AP), pulses and fruits with about 45% in wild species/CWR during report period. Some of the significant germplasm collected included landrace diversity in rice- namely deep water type Lao Dubi, Guduli Joha, Dol Bahu, Nageri Bao, Amuna Bao, Majuli Bao, Ali Dhepa, Baoi from Lakhimpur; Bogi Amena Bao, Jira Joha, Haldharan, Rangi Bao, Maghuri Bao, Bangi Lohi, Moina Jaan, Kala Joha, Bora Dhan and Daal Kachi from Dhimaji district of Assam; rice landraces (Sadasarna, Kukarjali, Ranjeet saran, Kala nania, Phool pakari, Kala khudhani, Biranphool safed, Desi manshuri, Safed khudhani, Biranphool kala, Desi basmati, Jasuadhan, Khairadhan, Kaimadhan, Chanachurdhan, Samanjeeradhan, Kanakjeeradhan and Hapsal/Gussaddhan) for husk colour, grain shape and size, awn, scented, early types from Araria district of Bihar; and Borani, Dhur basmati, Kalathuni, Karmuli, Jauliadhan, Jhusiadhan, Nimuidhan, Laladhan, Pyoliadhan, Raiman and Uskodhan with variability for grain size and shape, bran colour, kernel colour, stickiness, and scented types in rice from Champawat district of Uttarakahand. Natural population of guava in Pithoragarh (Uttarakhand), which is regenerating naturally in East Ramganga Valley of Uttarakhand for more than 100 years and rich population of Cajanus cajanifolius occurring in Bailadilla range of Dantewada (Chhattisgarh) were identified as potential sites for in situ conservation. A Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi and BSI, Kolkata was signed for exploration and germplasm collection of CWR, RET, M&AP species from forests and PAs. Germplasm conservation: Germplasm added to the National Genebank for long-term storage comprised 8,622 accessions of orthodox seed species and currently the base collection of National Genebank has a total of 4,56,568 accessions. A total of 16 accessions of fruits, tubers, bulbs and medicinal plants were added to the in-vitro Genebank, making the total collection of 1,928 accessions in the form of ~39,000 in vitro cultures of 54 genera and 149 species. In the Cryogenebank, 237 accessions of seeds and pollen genomic resources of different crop species were successfully cryopreserved, making the total collection of 12,076 accessions belonging to 860 species, besides 2,194 genomic resources. Germplasm exchange: A total of 41,490 samples were imported from 36 countries. Also, 13,566 entries (1,43,850 samples) were imported in trials/nurseries from CG Centres. Important trait specific accessions that were imported are: Maize: Wild species Z. mexicana (EC104700-1074743) from Mexico; wild species Zea parviglumis (EC1084237-EC1084269) from USA; Soybean: High-yielding, conventional, late maturity Grain variability in bush type rajmah from Hailakandi (Assam) Fruit variability in Cucumis sativus var.