 Yams stimulate the proliferation of gastric epithelial cells and enhance digestive enzyme activities in the small intestine. Diosgenin, a steroidal saponin of yam demonstrated antioxidative and hypolipidemic affects in vivo. Steroidal saponin of yams is used for drugs production such as dioscin, gracilin and prosapogenin. Elephant foot yam corms are a highly nutritive vegetable and contains calcium, phosphorous, iron and crude fibre. The corms contain glucose, galactose and rhamnose, flavonoids, phenols, coumarins, terpenoids, sterols, tannins, steroids and alkaloids. The corms are used traditionally for ailments like elephantiasis, tumors, hemorrhages, cough, bronchitis, asthma, amenorrhea, dysmenorrhea, seminal weakness, fatigue and anemia. Amblyone (a triterpenoid) and 3, 5-diacetylambulin (a flavonoid) has been isolated from its corms and have possible antibacterial, antifungal and cytotoxic activities. Taro leaves are rich in anti-oxidants and fibre, which makes them an excellent food to promote a healthy body weight. Regular consumption of taro leaf has been associated with reduction in risk of heart disease. Taro cormels contain starch, zinc, vitamin C, thiamine, riboflavin and niacin. Taro lowers risks of developing diabetes, reduces risks of lung and oral cancer. The RTC are very high yielders. Cassava and elephant foot yam yields up to 60 tonnes/ha. The RTC have extensive agro-ecological adaptability and are capable enough to withstand biotic and abiotic stresses. Cassava and greater yam are resistant to drought and high temperature, and taro has flood tolerance. Sweet potato can tolerate flash floods and mid-season drought, and this crop is considered as ‘famine relief crop’. Hence, the RTC are not only treasure house of biomolecules, minerals and vitamins, but also climate smart food crops which can provide food and nutrition security to burgeoning population. Thus, RTC are aptly potential food crops for combating contagious pandemic diseases like Covid-19. M. Nedunchezhiyan Head Regional Centre of ICAR-CTCRI Bhubaneswar, Odisha May–June 2021 3 Thejangulie Angami* and L Wangchu Seasonality chart of underutilized fruits found in the Eastern Himalayas Nature in its generous abundance has bestowed the Eastern Himalayan region with a unique array of vegetation ranging from tropical and sub-tropical to temperate. The region has varied agro-climatic conditions supporting the growth of various plant species giving it a rich biological diversity. The article reports on the documentation of wild underutilized edible fruits species found in the entire region of North east India and its thorough observation on the time of flowering and fruit availability or fruit maturity which is paramount. A total of 44 underutilized fruit species represented by 21 families were listed and sampled from varied locations of the region in which Rosaceae family represented the highest with 6 species.