 Swaminathan Research Foundation, Chennai, Tamil Nadu Dr H. S. Gupta, Director, Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora, Uttranchal Dr D. P. Ray, Dean, Directorate of Extension Education, OUAT, Bhubanewar, Orissa Mr Z. D. Kavia, Principal Scientist, CAZRI, Jodhpur, Rajasthan Database designed by : Sanjay Kushwaha Sunil Kumar Sinha Director (DIPA) : Arvinda Chakravarty Chief Editor : C. S. Vishwanath Associate : Obaidur Rahman Chief Production Officer : Virendra Kumar Bharti Technical Officer : Ashok Shastri Published by, Mr Arvinda Chakravarty, Director (DIPA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi, Laser typeset by Xpedite Computer Systems, B-587, 2nd Floor, Pandav Nagar (Opp. Naraina Bus Depot), New Delhi 110008, and printed at Vinayak Press, B-177/1, Okhla Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 020. ii iii T HE Mission Mode project on Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK) was sanctioned by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in June 2000, under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). The outcome of the project has been earlier published in three volumes as Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture— Document 1, 2 and Supplementary 1 of Document 2, covering 4033 ITKs in agriculture. Validation of ITKs is an important aspect, which has remained almost untouched from research agenda. In this direction 111 ITKs have been taken up for validation, which include experimental validation of 14 thematic areas, viz., rain water management, soil and water conservation, tillage practices, crops and cropping systems, pest and disease management, farm implements, seed storage, horticulture, veterinary science and animal husbandry, fisheries, food product development, natural yarns and dyes, ethnic food and thermal efficiency and case studies in two thematic areas, viz., methods of weather forecasting and low-cost housing materials. The results obtained, inspite of availability of limited period, has been very interesting and extremely important for finding the scientific rationale of traditional wisdom and knowledge. Simultaneously, efforts need to be made to protect the issues relating to intellectual property rights so that the interest of the inventors and the actual users of the technologies are protected. I am sure that the present publication entitled Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture—Document 3 will open new vistas in agricultural research for appropriate blending of ITK with modern technology and also to provide effective techniques to meet the global demand for organically produced food products. The splendid efforts made by Dr P. Das, Deputy Director-General (Agricultural Extension) and his dedicated team members in bringing out this publication are commendable.