 To achieve higher production levels, the quality of farm operations like seedbed preparation, sowing, application of fertilizer, chemicals and irrigation water, weeding, harvesting and threshing will have to be improved by using precision and efficient equipment. Promotion of R & D activities for innovation of new tools and techniques for Divyang and imparting skills through National Skill Development Corporation; provision of financial support to needy disabled farmers for procuring state-of-the art newly assistive devices through PSUs/PSBs under CSR activities; establishment of a farm machinery bank especially in low farm power availability regions for machines being manufactured elsewhere in the country. There is need to use drone and satellite imageries to delineate the areas affected by drought, pest and disease incidence, nutritional stress, and potential water resources. 11 Clean Energy: More use of solar energy source for water pumping and mechanical farming activities at village level needs to be promoted. Research of Nano technology in agriculture especially in seed treatment, nutrient management, pesticide use, waste disposal etc. must be encouraged. 9. Agricultural Education Two conferences were organized during this period. Notable recommendations were learning ecosystem must be strengthened with inter-weaving of best practices including e-media and ICT tools; education on disaster management e.g. weather, flood, drought etc. may be incorporated in graduate programmes; strong and long-term linkages should be established between AUs and corporate sector; students should be encouraged to get actively involved under experiential learning in production and sale of agricultural products such as vermi-compost, fruits/vegetable juice, sauce, jam, ketchup, honey etc. through ATIC; Alumni and industry interface with the university/ colleges must be enhanced to promote agri entrepreneurship and the need to integrate plant biology in the curriculum of engineering physics, chemistry, biotechnology, and other discipline due to the increased applications of bio-inspired and bio-sources products and technology. The IAUA Golden Jubilee – International Conference on Agricultural Education-Sharing Global Experience in addition advocated the establishment of an EARTH University on the model of the EARTH University in Costa Rice and the “World Grant University” to encapsulate multispectral international collaboration to support development of an active and continuous long–term relationship-based international cooperation. The recommendations and the framework of V Deans Committee must be implemented to expose agricultural graduates in agri- entrepreneurship and start up.