 Although some of the private firms are producing the in vitro plants, efforts to multiply tissue cultured, clean plant at lower cost should be prioritized so as to reduce the import cost. In vitro grafting in citrus Direct somatic embryogenesis in citrus Etiolated seedlings 14 days old Grafting of meristem Grafting plant Indian Horticulture 24 Stress tolerance The recent innovations on banana bio-immune technology for eradicating deadly disease of Fusarium wilt caused by TR4 using polypeptide bio-engineering during tissue culture organogenesis phase in banana give insights about the similar technological innovations in other fruit crops. Moreover, under changing climate, mitigation of crop specific biotic and abiotic stresses using tissue culture strategies needs to be developed. Basic problems and solution In vitro recalcitrance such as browning of inoculated explant tissues due to high ethylene evolution, secondary metabolite exudation, hyperhydricity and low multiplication rate are the some of the major problem encountered during the multiplication process of woody perennial fruit crops. To overcome the problems, modification in the medium composition, i.e. inclusion of ethylene absorbents like silver compounds, activated charcoal (secondary metabolite absorption) etc., in the media can be used in crops like mango, citrus, pomegranate, date palm etc. Similarly, to alter the growing environment, particularly for improved aeration and nutrient replenishment, bioreactor based temporary immersion systems with automation can be used and has been optimized in crops like banana, date palm, papaya, pineapple, strawberry, grapes and citrus. In India, low cost temporary immersion system (TIS) based banana micropropagation technique has been designed and validated for cv. Rasthali. This innovative bioreactor technique can also enhance the multiplication efficiency, reduce the labour and ensure the ex vitro recovery in difficult to regenerate woody perennials. High initial establishment cost for sophisticated laboratories is also a limitation. The financial support by the centrally sponsored subsidies and schemes such as MIDH, RKVY and NABARD can be utilized for the establishment of tissue culture laboratories. Certification system National certification system for tissue culture raised plants (NCS-TCP) was implemented during 2006 by Department of Biotechnology (DBT), Government of India. It is a comprehensive system to ensure that the tissue culture raised plants are free from viruses and fastidious pathogen and are also genetically uniform. To provide authenticity and traceability, the tissue culture material needs to be tested and certified by sending the samples to accredited testing laboratories (ATL). In fruit crops the standards on Indian NCS-TCP certification is available for banana and apple, while recently during 2021, citrus has also been included in the system.