 Formation of district level committees of State line departments with KVK experts for field and as well as online monitoring, evaluation and feedback. 3. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. 4. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. 5. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Summary Recommendations: Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Introduction, adoption and popularization of high yielding varieties for increasing productivity 1. Promotion of high yielding varieties of major field crops, vegetable crops, fruit crops, medicinal crops, fodder crops and ornamental crops. 2. Promotion of high yielding milk, meat, wool, egg & meat breed of different cattle’s, Buffaloes, Sheep, Goat and poultry birds. Strengthening of traditional water storage structure. 1. Strengthening of existing water storage structures like ponds, Naula and Check dam in most of the villages. 2. Construction of water harvesting check bunds to harvest the rain water. 3. Construction of rain water harvesting structures (LDPE tank, Cemented tanks) in private as well as government buildings. 4. Construction of trenches for high percolation of water in valley area 5. Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip irrigation system in juvenile plants in low or valley areas. 6. Efficient management of rain water harvesting with drip-fertigation system. 7. Strengthening of existing Hydrum system of irrigation. 8. Popularization of low cost lining material to check seepage in the region. 600 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 9. Establishment of roof top water harvesting structures in all households. Adoption of cluster approach for holistic development 1. Strengthening of old fruit belt by introduction of new cultivars of fruits crops. 2. Popularization and promotion of zero energy cool chamber among farmer group at Nyay Panchayat level. 3. Promotion of organic cultivation of Ginger/ turmeric in low valley areas. 4. Promotion the cultivation off season vegetables (tomato, potato, capsicum, cole crops etc.). 5. Promotion of production of major area specific field crops. 6. Promotion of irrigated areas for seed production of rice and wheat. 7. Promotion of production of major area specific vegetable crops (tomato, vegetable pea, okra, French bean, onion, garlic with the use of proper crop rotation. 8. Promotion of organic cultivation of different crops (basmati rice, finger millet, barnyard millet, horse gram, bhatt, ginger, turmeric). 9. Fallow land development under agro-forestry in the region. 10. Promotion of common minimum programme technology in vegetables to reduce the cost of cultivation and quality produce. Management of wild animal problem 1.