 A pit is dug and at the bottom of the pit, leaves of mango, castor and farm waste are layered thinly. Above it, about two cart loads of animal dung and urine are deposited. About 800 to 1000 kg of empty shells of castor pods and gobar gas (biogas plant) slurry are alternately layered to bring it to the level of ground surface. Finally, a special kind of soil known as 'tas-moram' is spread in a layer on it. Many farmers in Saurashtra incorporate 'tas- moram' (a kind of gravely soil) into the furrows of the field where groundnut is to be sown. They believe that is helps in loosening the soil and facilitates peg penetration during ploughing. The contents of the pit are allowed to decompose for about four to six months. Decomposed manure is loaded on the bullock cart or tractor and incorporated in the field before sowing of the next crop of groundnut. Last year Jethabhai applied about six to eight cart loads of this manure in one bigha (0.16 ha) of groundnut crop. He says that application of this Kamariya and Kamariya (1995) 70 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference manure has increased the yield of the groundnut crop by about 100 kg per bigha which means an increase of 35 percent over the average yield. This could partly be attributed to pesticidal properties of the manure. Some other farmers found it to be effective against aphids and some fungal diseases which could cause yield loss ranging from 10-15 percent. It also helps in reducing termite infestation in following winter wheat crop (Junagadh, Gujarat). 130 Control of aphids pests of groundnut Black and green aphid of groundnut sucks the sap from the leaves.When cloudy atmosphere coincides with Southerly wind, the aphid population builds up. An innovative mixture of several poisonous plants and locally available chemicals to tackle the pest is prepared.The following are the ingredients of pesticidal mixture: (i) A filtered decoction of approximately 500g of custard apple (Annona squamosa) leaves boiled in down to one fourth of its original volume.(ii) About 50–60 ml latex of Calotropis.(iii) Seeds/pellets of ariya which can be brought from the village shop, heated in half litre of water and an extract is prepared.(iv) Half a litre of water in which 100g of tobacco leaves have been boiled and filtered.(v) The whitish fluid which deposits in biogas digester, it is generally removed at every 4–6 months, while cleaning gas plant. It collects in small quantities and gives off a foul smell like synthetic pesticides and (vi) About 100g of copper sulphate.All the ingredients are mixed in a container and resultant mixture is used as insectcide. This said quantity is enough for making 15 litres of spraying liquid. Only one spray is sufficient to control aphids in groundnut (Junagdh, Gujarat). Desai (1994) 131 Control of Tikka disease in groundnut Tikka disease Cercospora arachidicola affects the groundnut crop when it is four weeks old.