 • Bioassays with volatiles induced from the fruit upon oviposition by Oriental fruit fly, Bactrocera dorsalis and guava fruit fly, Bactrocera correcta proved that the flies are attracted to conspecific induced volatiles compared to heterospecifics, indicating that egg deposition induced specific volatiles and are the reasons for mediating niche partition in these flies. Smell of red weaver ant, Oecophylla smaragdina repelled gravid female Bactrocera dorsalis from oviposition, indicating the scope for potent ovipositional reprellents. • Small area estimation (SAE) method was developed for count data under an aggregated level version of spatial dependent generalized linear mixed model (GLMM). This method was applied to generate reliable and representative district-level estimates of incidence of indebtedness in rural areas of Uttar Pradesh using debt and investment survey data 2012-13 collected by NSSO and the secondary data from the Census 2011. The district-wise estimates and spatial map of incidence of indebtedness are expected to provide valuable information to policy-analysts and decision-makers for identifying the regions requiring more attention. Competency enhancement: To tap brain and skill bank potential, 35 outstanding superannuated professionals of NARES were selected as Emeritus Scientist. The aims were to complete the work in hand for its fruitful conclusion, utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses, and use their experience in addressing nationally important issues in different ICAR-Institutes and SAUs. It was also aimed to use their expertize for launching a movement in science for remedifying regional imbalance in agricultural development. Salient achievements • Research carried on the livestock data in Karnataka indicated that the NADRES software can be improved by incorporating statistical models, viz. Random Forest model, Adaptive boosting model and Generalized linear model (GLM) as applicable to individual disease. • Spatial distribution of risk of selected diseases in Karnataka has been prepared. • The software, india.admas Epitrak, was developed and released to teach basic epidemiology to undergraduate veterinary students. It can be procured from Director, ICAR-NIVEDI, Bengaluru. • The methane emission pattern in paddy soils of conventional and SRI system was assessed and found to be higher in conventional system. The mass multiplication of methanotroph strains was done and the multiplied culture shall be used for evaluating methane emission. • Museum galleries: Sunboard panels of varying sizes on animal keeping and veterinary medicine in medieval (Animal keeping during Allauddin Khilji, Mughal period, Maharana Pratap, Ranjit Singh, Tipu Sultan, etc.