 (ii) To act as a clearing-house of research and general information relating to agriculture, animal husbandry, home science and allied sciences, and fisheries matters through its publications and information system, and instituting and promoting transfer of technology programme. (ill) To provide, undertake and promote consultancy services in the field of education, research, training and dissemination of information in agriculture, agro-forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, home science and allied sciences. (iv) To look into the problems relating to broader areas of rural development concerning agriculture including post-harvest technology, by developing co-operative programmes with other organizations such as the Indian Council of Social Sciences Research, Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Universities, etc. (v) To do other things considered necessary to attain the objects of the Society. II. AUTHORITIES OF THE SOCIETY The following shall be the authorities of the Society :- Authorities 13. i) President ii) Vice-President iii) Governing Body iv) Director-General v) Secretary vi) Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. Principal Executive Officer Appointment of Officers/ Staff Powers of the Society Review of progress and performance of the constitutent units Notice of meeting etc. Powers vil) Director (DARE) vlil) Such other persons/bodies, committees or panels as may/shall be constituted or appointed by the Government of India, the Society or the Governing Body. 14. The Director-General shall be the Principal Executive Officer of the Society. 15. They shall be appointed from time to time by the authority competent under these rules to make such appointments, Directors of Research Institutes, Directors of Laboratories, Project Co-ordinators and such other officers as may be required to assist the Director-General and/or officers subordinate to him for carrying out the objects set forth in the Memorandum of Association of the Society. 16. The Society shall have, subject to such restrictions as the Government of India may impose and subject to such guidelines as the Government of India may issue from time to time in this behalf, full authority to perform all acts and issue such directions as may be considered necessary, incidental or conductive to the attainment of the objects enunciated in the Memorandum of Association of the Society. 17. The Society shall review in its meeting at least once a year the progress and performance of the constituent units of the Society and give such policy directions as it may deem fit, to the Governing Body and the constituent units of the Society. 18. (a) A notice or any other information may be served upon a member of the Society either personally or by sending it through post in an envelope addressed to such member at his address as noted in the roll of members.