 Sweetflag rhizomes have asarones (cis and trans) its effect on insects may be attractants, antifeedants, repellent, antigonadal or insecticidal (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 19 Use of neem/ turmeric/mustard oil for grain storage Neem, behera, walnut and mint leaves possess certain antimicrobial or pesticidal properties which help in grain storage. The antimicrobial substance in mustard is allyl isothidcyanate. The turmeric powder also appears to perform a similar function. Grain is mixed with leaves of neem/walnut/behera/mint (pudina) and then stored in bins. For pulse storage especially Verma (1998) 151 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference ‘urad’, the grains are mixed with turmeric powder or smeared lightly with mustard oil and then sealed in airtight containers. Storage of pulses after soaking in cow urine, followed by drying is also practised in some parts of Himachal Pradesh (Himachal Pradesh). 20 Storage of paddy grain with mindhal fruits Paddy is a major crop as well as staple food in South Gujarat. It is stored in country bins for two to three years. Four or five fruits of the 'mindhal' tree are kept in storage bins at different places. It is believed that poisons in the fruits keep away pests. Some people use 'mindhal' fruit powder to kill the fish in ponds. 'Mindhal' grows in forests in South Gujarat and bears fruit in the beginning of winter. These fruits are tied around the wrists of brides and bridegrooms during the wedding ceremony (Valsad, Gujarat). Jadav (1995) 21 Grain storage with leaves of banyan tree Farmers mix the dried and powdered leaves of banyan tree (Ficus benghalensis) with the harvested grains for keeping it safe from pests. Sometimes neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves are also mixed with it (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Dhirabhai (1997) 22 Grain storage using common salt Common salt is put under the vessel containing the grains. Insects cannot move on the salt, thus their entry into the vessel is prevented. This method has been followed traditionally and the cost comes to around three to four rupees only (Pondicherry). Govinda Raju (2000-2001) 23 Traditional storage technique of wheat Tribal (farmers) of Nimar area of Madhya Pradesh use gunny bags and wheat straw for storage of wheat seeds (Nimar, Madhya Pradesh). Tomer et al. (2002) 24 Grain storage in ‘Darauntha’ ‘Darauntha’ is made of deodar wood and this wood checks the entry of insects/larvae. Wooden houses are built away from living quarters for checking the entry of rodents etc. Windows with adequate ventilation are provided. The size of the store house is proportional to the land holdings (Sirmour,Solan, Shimla and Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 25 Grain storage in gunny bag, drum, pot, pattarai and kulumai The cleaned produce is stored in gunny bags, drums and pots, pattarai and kulumai or kudhir (made of cowdung and clay) (Tamil Nadu). Parvati et al. (2000) 152 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S.