 IVRI-Pig Ration App: This App is targeted to impart and promote scientific knowledge and skills about formulation of balanced ration for various categories of pigs based on locally available feed ingredients. The App additionally provides readymade diets for pigs. Use of this Mobile App for balanced pig ration can help to enhance the profitability of the piggery enterprise. The app is available in Google Play Store and can be installed freely. DBT DARE Portal: DBT portal for DARE (https://dbtdare.icar.gov.in/) was developed to capture record of individual transaction (in kind or cash) under the DBT applicable schemes of DARE. The portal facilitates ICAR organizations, State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs), ICAR Institutes and Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) to report all transactions (in cash or kind) under various DBT schemes of DARE. There is MIS integration between this portal and national level DBT Bharat Portal (https://dbtbharat.gov.in/) through web service. Thus, consolidated information related to all DBT schemes of DARE are uploaded and integrated with DBT Bharat portal. CICR Mobile App: An android application ‘CICR Mobile App’ for the smart phones was developed to support cotton stakeholders involved with cotton production. It covers all aspects of cotton cultivation. Any user can refer this App at any time in offline mode as well. The size of app is 24 MB that makes users to download in no time. The targeted end users are farmers, students, researchers, state department personnel, extension functionaries, KVK personnel, policy makers etc. Weekly advisories on cotton which are being sent to all State Government and are available with ICAR- CICR website are also linked with the cotton app for taking actions on weekly recommendations. The link for the app is: https://play.google.com/store/apps/ SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 118 details?id= cicr.com.cicr.cicrcottonapp. Management System for Post Graduate System (PGMS): This system was developed and implemented in 2009 (http://pgs.iasri.res.in) as an online system for management of PG School. The system is operational in nine agricultural universities as of today. Significant additions during the year includes system implemented for undergraduate programme; online fee collection; adding various user type in system; multi-role functionality; hostel management system; examination module for UG; approval cycle for UG student roaster form; and various reports like fee detail report. Sampling methodology for estimation of harvest and post-harvest losses: Sampling methodologies for estimation of harvest and post-harvest losses were developed for horticultural crops (fruits and vegetables), livestock (meat and milk), and fish (capture and culture fisheries). Accordingly, three separate guidelines were developed.