 For facilitating publication of the books, e-book platform was developed. Under the books publication programme of the English Editorial Unit, six new titles were published namely Stingless Bees – An Unexplored Pollinator in India; Textbook of Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture; Textbook on Forages; Ravine Land Management : Principles, Practices and Strategies; Textbook of Pet Animal Management; Textbook of Fundamentals of Agricultural and Animal Husbandry Extension; Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of soils; Textbook of Principles and Practices of Weed Management; Textbook of Environmental Agrometeorology; and Sugarcane Crop Management Practices in India. The in-house publications like ICAR Reporter 21. Publications and Social Media icar annual report 2022-23 217 and ICAR News are also available on ICAR website for wider global reach. These are viewed in about 140 countries world over. For dissemination of latest information about the new technologies in ICAR’s nationwide research network, the Hindi journals Kheti (monthly) and Phalphul (biomonthly) are continuing to play an important role. Both the journals were circulated through offline and online modes. The latest issues were uploaded for the readers and could be accessed free of cost. During the reported period six special issues of Kheti were published, namely ‘success stories of farmers’, ‘livestock’, ‘climate change and agriculture’, ‘75th year of publication of Kheti’, ‘Nutrition’ and ‘Millets’. Similarly two special issues of biomonthly Hindi journal Phalphul, namely Fruits, and Vegetables were published during this year. Both the Hindi journals cater to the needs of farmers, agriculture students, extension workers and progressive farmers to provide authentic scientific research based information regarding technological breakthroughs related to crops, livestocks, fisheries, horticulture crops, agro machines, government schemes etc. During the year, for aiding publication of the Hindi journals the e-patrika portal was developed. Apart from this a useful and informative book entitled ‘Subziyon mein keeton aur rogon ka prabandhan’ was also published. Business Unit Apart from the routine work, Business Unit successfully organized/participated and facilitated the following exhibitions for showcasing ICAR technologies and publications during the reported period: (i) Pusa Krishi Vigyan Mela, New Delhi from 9-11 March 2022. (ii) 93rd Annual General Meeting of ICAR Society on 28 March 2022. Publications and Social Media (iii) World Environment Expo, Pragati Maidan, New Delhi from 4-6 June 2022. (iv) ICAR Foundation Day Celebration on 16 July 2022. (v) ICAR-APAARI Workshop on Knowledge Management, NASC on 23 July 2022. (vii) ICAR Book Exhibition at Lala Lajpat Rai University of Veterinary and Animal Science, Hisar, Haryana on 28 and 29 October 2022. (viii) India Organic and Horti Expo at Dilli Haat, Janakpuri, Delhi from 4 to 6 November 2022.