 Manish Das* and Ashwin Trivedi T raditionally, isabgol is known as Eshopgol in Bengali; Isapgol, ghoda jeeru, umto jeeru in Gujarati; Isubgal in Hindi; Isafgolu, visama golu in Kannad; Karkatasringi in Malyalam; Isabgala in Marathi; Isabghol in Persian; Tshad gala in Sanskrit; Iskolvirai in Tamil and Isapgola vitulu in Telugu. Commercially, it is known as Blond Psyllium. Isabgol is a Persian word indicating ‘Isap’ and ‘Ghol’ which means a horse ear referring to the characteristic shape of its seed. The genus Plantago Linn. comprises about 200 species, of which 10 mainly occur in India but Plantago ovata is the source of isabgol seed and husk for use in medicine. Isabgol is cultivated in many parts of the world. It is a native of the Mediterranean region and West Asia, extending up to Sutlej and Sindh in Pakistan. It is also distributed in Canary Islands across Southern Spain, North Africa, Middle East and North- Western Asia. India is the major exporter in the international market. Its seed husk can imbibe water several times of its mass and swell, and because of this nature, it is extensively used against chronic constipation. It is also used against inflammation of gastro-intestinal tracts, diarrhoea, dysentery, etc. The fibre rich husk is also found effective in reducing blood serum cholesterol and has been included in many food items like ice-cream, sauce, jelly, bread, cookie, etc. The seeds are sweet, astringent, refrigerant, emollient, mucilaginous, diuretic, laxative, anti-inflammatory, antidysentic, expectorant, aphrodiasiac, roborant and tonic. Area, marketing and export India dominates the world market in production and export of psyllium husk powder. It provides approximately 80% of psyllium husk powder in the world market. About 90-95% of India’s isabgol production is exported. According to Department of Commerce, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, GoI (2023), India exported Isabgol husk worth ` 265.8 crores and seed worth R` 36.8 crores during 2022-23. The area under isabgol cultivation in India is 4.5 lakh hectare with a production of 4.32 lakh metric tonnes (2022-23). Climate and soil condition Isabgol is highly environmental sensitive crop. Its cultivation requires certain temperature, dry atmosphere, clear sky etc. More specifically, it requires a cool climate and dry sunny weather during maturation, even a mild dew, cloudy weather or light showers cause seed shedding. The papery seed husk can absorb water many times than its own weight and swell and drop off due to increase in weight. Hence, unseasonal rain or, even high dew deposition during the crop maturity is the major deterrent factor in isabgol cultivation and can cause total loss of the seed yield. Thus, regions receiving winter rains are not suitable for isabgol cultivation. The temperature requirement for maximum seed germination is reported as 20°C-25°C, whereas, at the time of maturity, it requires 30°C-35°C temperature. It requires 50-125 cm annual rainfall.