 The event featured a range of captivating components, such as a millet-focused live cooking session led by celebrity chefs, as well as the display of cutting- edge agricultural technology from prominent Indian startups, and interaction with Indian women agri-champions, ‘Agri-Street’. The guests visited the ‘Rangoli Area’, which featured two massive ‘Millet Rangolis’. The beautiful artworks were prepared using millet grains and local Indian pattern. In the exhibition area, the spouses witnessed the dynamic Agri-startup ecosystem, where 15 Agri-startups showcased their innovative tech solutions to address ground-level challenges and digitize agriculture. The delegation also met women tribal farmer Lahri Bai from Madhya Pradesh who made significant contribution in conservation of millets in her farm. The exhibition highlighted India's Research and Development achievements via the stalls presented by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), demonstrating the latest innovations in precision agriculture, agricultural technologies, and mechanization advancements driving sector growth. Each stall showcased specific crop advancements backed by government initiatives. Some of the key stalls focused on themes like the journey of the basmati revolution, its role in the prosperity of millions of basmati farmers, and its status as a 5 billion USD forex earner. Another stall highlighted India's status as the 'Land of Spices' emphasizing the wide variety and global fame of Indian spices, along with future scope. A neighbouring stall provided insights into the nutritional and medicinal significance of mushrooms, their extensive diversity in India, and their potential for export. Additionally, the esteemed guests also viewed the sensor-based system that facilitated the real-time monitoring of environmental conditions during the transportation, storage, and ripening of bananas, among other interesting exhibits of ICAR. ICAR is in forefront of a movement to revolutionize millets research, development, extension of cutting-edge technologies and is future ready to take lead through commissioning of Global Centre of Excellence at Indian Institute of Millets Research, Hyderabad to address researchable issues. E DITORIAL ICAR exhibition for Spouses of participating G20 Head of States (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 September 2023 Seaweed cultivation: Untapped potential of India P Bagavan Reddy*, P Manoj Kumar Goud and A Das ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly, Uttar Pradesh 243 122 India’s long, rich bio-diverse coastline of around 8000 km provides livelihood to millions of fish farmers. While traditional aqua farming has helped shape the coastal economy over the years, the country has been rather obtuse in adopting seaweed cultivation, an allied agricultural sector that holds immense prospects for the nation’s economy.