 Example of wheat variety HD 2967 where it was shared with 16000 farmers informally (by giving 2kg each) in 2008 and was licensed to 39 companies in 2010 with the spread of word about its high production became mega variety by 2013. Another example is of wheat variety HD 3086 in 2012 ,which was shared with 8000 farmers informally but licensed to 220 seed companies in 2014, farmers producing and selling the seed never come in the way, because farmer will again buy the fresh seed from the registered company knowing its benefits. This dramatic influence of licensing only two wheat varieties within five years added estimated 12.07 million tonnes to foodgrains production with average of 46.9 per cent increase in productivity. It is perfectly possible not to compromise on farmers rights while granting plant breeders rights on plant varieties in recognition of the great service they do for humanity and nation prosperity. Key takeaways Planting material from a registered company should only be used. Create awareness among all stakeholders regarding farmers and breeders’ rights. 50 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series FARMERS’ RIGHTS A CORNERSTONE FOR FOOD SECURITY AND MANAGEMENT OF SEED DIVERSITY Svanhild Isabelle Batta Torheim Farmers rights are vital for conservation and sustainable use they are a precondition for the maintenance of the crop genetic diversity, which is the basis of all food and agriculture production in the world. They are crucial for ensuring present and future food security, in general and in the fight against rural poverty, in particular. In 1989, Farmers’ Rights were formally recognized for the first time in the Conference organized by the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and in 1991 it was decided to set up a fund for the realization of these rights. Then the Convention on Biological Diversity was adopted in May 1992 and with it a resolution on the interrelationship between the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) and the promotion of sustainable agriculture was set up. Dr Svanhild Isabelle Batta Torheim is the Senior Advisor of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, Norway. She advices regarding genetic resources, biological diversity and sustainable development. 51 Sustainable Agriculture Agenda 21 also voiced the demand to seek solutions to outstanding matters, including the question of Farmers’ Rights. This marked the start of negotiations which led finally to the International Treaty. In 1996, the Global Plan for the Conservation and Sustainable Utilization of Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture was adopted by the International Technical Conference on Plant Genetic Resources. It, too, addressed the issue of Farmers’ Rights. With the adoption of the International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture in 2001, a legally binding international agreement was established for the management of plant genetic resources for food and agriculture.