1 Practical implications In ensuring the promotion of UA to enhance food security, policies should be developed to protect agricultural lands in urban spaces along with integrating UA issues and programmes in emerging cities’ development programmes and policies. Governments and NGOs interested in the reduction of urban food insecurity should aggressively advocate for UA among urban households through extension education by gleaning on the health benefits of UA such as producing and consuming safe and nutritious food. Again, urban households with productive spaces lying idle should be encouraged to practice UA to grow healthy Extent of urban agriculture and food security 451 vegetables for their families which in effect could reduce food insecurity. Similarly, animal rearing, which does not need a larger space but has a significant influence on food security- could, be encouraged by various UA stakeholders. 4.2 Research implication In terms of research, similar studies can be conducted in other emerging urban cities in Africa and Asia for the advocacy of specific urban-food-security policies and programmes. Notes 1. Food availability at the household level is about the household focusing on food production, reduction of postharvest losses and also ensuring the ability of the household to buy food when needed. At the same time, accessibility is, generally about the household’s ability to access the food both physically and economically. This is very prominent in urban areas where there is insufficient access to food due to poverty and high prices of food. With this, in our research we proposed that urban agriculture can have significant influence on accessibility of households. Food utilisation, however, is concerned with the consumption of micronutrients to concerns about only protein and energy as seen to be in the first two dimensions. The three dimensions are not independent of each other. Hence, they should all be stable overtime. 2. Urban Agriculture (UA), otherwise known as Urban Farming (UF), conveys the concept of agricultural production (horticulture, tree, food crops, floriculture plants, livestock and animal production, forest trees, agroforestry and aquaculture) in urban and peri-urban areas for own consumption, sales or both (Graefe et al., 2008; Chaudhuri, 2015). Mostly, UA is done in unused, open, private lands, public (roadsides, riverbanks, along railroads, idle public lands, parks) and private spaces that are not owned by the urban farmer within urban and peri-urban areas (Crush et al., 2011). Except for the use of privately owned lands, UA mostly practised in public spaces is not seminal, with the user rights very limited. 3. Kindly refer to Coates et al. (2007) for more information on HFIAS score and its usage. References Adesoye, O.P. and Adepoju, A.O. (2020), “Food insecurity status of the working poor households in South West Nigeria”, International Journal of Social Economics, Vol. 47 No. 5, pp. 581-597. Amoah, P.