 • Effective spray schedule for the management of tea mosquito bug (TMB) and other minor pests of cashew with monocrotophos (0.05%) at flushing and carbaryl (0.1%) at flowering and fruiting were found effective in controlling these pests. Recently lambda cyhalothrin (0.003%) has been found to be effective and economical for management of TMB and other foliage pests. • Most of the centres of AICRP on Cashew have established cashew nurseries under the Regional Nursery programme of Directorate of Cashewnut and Cocoa Development, (DCCD) Kochi and are producing large number of cashew grafts of improved and high yielding cashew varieties. www.icar.org.in 46 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture All India Network Research Project on Medicinal and Aromatic Plants 1. Title of the Project : All India Network Research Project on Medicinal & Aromatic Plants 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Satyabrata Maiti Director, National Research Centre for Medicinal & Aromatic Plants, Boriavi 387 310, Anand, Gujarat Phone : 0268‐2578602, Fax: 0091‐0268‐2578601 E‐mail: : director@nrc‐map.org 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Present status and benefited accrued to the beneficiaries • This project has succeeded in creating awareness of the importance and the varieties play a key role in production. Over 90 improved varieties (vide list follows) were released for cultivation in different spices. Several promising accessions were identified, and some are in the pipeline for release and these varieties are to be tested in different agroclimatic zones. There is also need for laying out MLTs/CVTs in different spices and also screening of promising accessions to disease, pest and abiotic stress. • This project has also formulated need based and action based new research programmes for meeting the future targets and challenges. • The execution of improved production technologies are to be transferred to farmers by means of demonstration trial, field visits, training etc. Germplasm maintained at different centres of AINRPMAP and are being used when required for experimentation purposes on sustainable basis. Sl. No. Crop Centre No. of Accessions 1 Aswagandha Mandsaur Udaipur 31 13 2 Isabgol Anand Hisar 47 48 3 Guggal Anand Udaipur 33 16 4 Asparagus Anand 9 5 Palmarosa Indore 65 www.icar.org.