 • Indirect ELISA kit for detection of avian influenza virus (AIV) antibodies in chickens. • Indirect ELISA kit for detection of porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome virus (PRRSV) antibodies in domestic pigs. • Multiplex Real Time RT-PCR Kit for Avian Influenza A virus typing, and diagnosis of H5, N1 and H9 Subtyping. • Lateral flow test for rapid detection of H5 avian influenza virus antigen in poultry. Lateral Flow rapid test kit for Avian Influenza H5 virus antigen Indirect ELISA kit for detection antibodies against PRRS virus 148 ICAR Institutes Profile 148 ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources 1. Contact details a) Postal address: ICAR-National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources, GT Road By pass, Near Basant Vihar, Karnal-132001(Haryana) India b) Name of the Director: Dr B P Mishra c) E-mail: director.nbagr@icar.gov.in; Phone: 0184-2961000(O), Fax 0184-2960460; Website: https.//nbagr.icar.gov.in 2. Mandate and activities • Identification, evaluation, characterization, conservation and sustainable utilization of livestock and poultry genetic resources of the country • Coordination and capacity building in animal genetic resources management and policy issues. Activities a) Identification, Characterization and documentation of native AnGR b) Conservation of native breeds of livestock and poultry species c) Genomics for population structure and diversity of native AnGR d) Trait identification and characterization of native AnGR for value addition e) Policy support and Capacity building for AnGR management. 3. Salient achievements • About 230 breed/populations of indigenous livestock and poultry were characterized and documented by the Bureau which included 120 newly identified breeds/populations of indigenous AnGR across the country. • A total of 202 breeds of indigenous livestock and poultry including 3 indigenous dog breeds have been registered in the country by ICAR-NBAGR and further Gazette Notified by the DARE, MoA&FW, Govt. of India. • Cryopreservation of germplasm of indigenous breeds in form of Semen (49 breeds/ populations), Somatic cell (24 breeds/populations) and DNA (169 breeds/populations)at National Gene Bank of the Bureau. In situ conservation of 17 indigenous breeds carried out in their breeding tract. • Omics based trait characterization for climatic adaptation, heat/ cold tolerance in native cattle, buffalo and sheep breeds, also unique animal products viz. milk (Sahiwal), colostrum 149 Animal Sciences 149 (cattle/yak), meat (Kadaknath chicken) and meat (Mandya sheep) • AGR-IS database is available with all kind of information on native breeds in the country • 8 SNP Chips developed for native breeds/ species, 1 patent granted. 4.