 Semen-sexing is a potential technology to control population of non-productive animals. Š Š Increasing crop productivity: The yield gap between productivity levels obtained at farmers field with and without improved technology in various field crops in Rajasthan 475 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 ranges from 17% to 41% highlighting the potential role of up scaling of production technology. Further, there is only 8-15% seed replacement rate of pulses and 50-60% of pearl millet and maize hybrids that needs further enhancement. Promoting early maturing cultivars especially in drought prone areas and quality planting material of horticultural crops would play a very important role in further enhancing income levels. Š Š Diversification with high-value crops and commodities: Diversification of agriculture offers a great opportunity to augment income. Specific interventions include cultivation of high-value fruits and vegetables. Protected cultivation is also emerging as viable option in Rajasthan especially in peri-urban areas having good market connectivity. New crops like Quinoa, Chia offer additional opportunities for diversifying the farming. Agrivoltaic system, also termed as solar farming, can also be an option of getting high annual returns per unit of land with a potential of Rs. 22 lakhs/ha, though it requires a heavy investment in beginning. Š Š Reducing cost of production: Reduction of cost of production can also be an additional avenue to increase net returns from farming. Integrated nutrient management based on fertility status of soil and nutrient requirement of crops are being suggested to reduce cost of inputs. Custom hiring centers have an important role to play in reducing the cost of production as mechanization helps in reduction of labour requirement and to reduce losses during harvesting. Š Š Supporting pioneer and unique crops of Rajasthan: Rajasthan is known for crops with unique attributes. Pearl millet is cultivated on 40 lakh ha (>50% acreage in the country) and maize on 9 lakh ha. These two crops have shown highest growth in productivity since last more than 4 decades. Despite being drought tolerant, nutritionally rich, climate-change ready crops, the area under these two traditional food crops of Rajasthan is continuously declining as there is no incentive for farmers to produce more. The supply of wheat in PDS in Rajasthan, even in those areas where pearl millet and maize are traditional foods, has led to lesser importance of these two crops. There is need to procure pearl millet and maize and to distribute them in PDS in western and southern parts of state, respectively. Similarly, Rajasthan is known as hub for seed spices but there are few processing plants and mandies for their marketing. It adds to the transportation cost while taking them to adjoining states for processing and marketing.