 World Fish ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 75 Sustainable Aquaculture yy Conducted a Workshop on Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) during 20-22 January 2019 that includes of life cycle inventory analysis, defining system boundaries, methods of data collection and validation and use of LCA software for data analysis, impact assessment and interpretation of results. yy Completed Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) survey in Andhra Pradesh and West Bengal, after validating structured questionnaire for the LCA study of carp and striped catfish. yy Completed survey of existing practices for yield gap analysis of genetically improved varieties of Jayanti rohu and freshwater prawn. Collected data from 17 Jayanti rohu & 5 non- Jayanti rohu and 3 improved prawn hatcheries and 43 improved prawn farms, which are being analysed. yy Under the systematic selective breeding programme for Giant freshwater prawn, Macrobrachium rosenbergii, collected data from 3 prawn hatcheries, 30 prawn farms and 13 improved prawn farms for performance assessment of genetically improved freshwater prawn and so far, achieved 11 generations of selection. Resilient small-scale fisheries yy Conducted workshop from 18-23 Feb 2019 in WorldFish, Penang as part of the WorldFish- FAO collaboration for creating multi- stakeholder information and communication alliance for support to small-scale fisheries (SSF) in Asia, which in turn can potentially link to global policy processes, including the Small- Scale Fisheries - Global Strategic Framework (SSF-GSF) of the FAO/UN. yy CIFRI and WorldFish Experts conducted 3-days training at CIFRI during 18-20 February 2019 to officers from Department of Fisheries, Odisha for mapping of aquatic resources in the state. yy Completed exploratory survey in eight wetlands of West Bengal and Assam for small scale fisheries development. Studies being undertaken on ecology, fisheries, socio-economics in beels in West Bengal and Assam, capacity building activities and governance. yy Demonstrated 1000 kg grass carp production in three pens of 0.5 ha area at Beledanga Wetland, West Bengal in 45 days the primary cooperative society. Value Chains and Nutrition yy Conducted training and demonstration programme on preparation of 4 products such as Fish soup powder, Fish based snacks, Nutrimix and Fish chutney powder the states of Kerala, Odisha and Manipur. yy Studied the fish consumption patterns of rural consumers in the states of Meghalaya, Odisha, Karnataka and Kerala. Further studies on assessment of the effect of feeding fortified fish soup powder for 30 days to selected 25 adolescent girls in Meghalaya having less haemoglobin (<10 g) showed increase haemoglobin level from initial 6 g to 13 g. yy Promoting ICAR-CIFT technologies such as Solar dryer, refrigeration enabled Mobile Fish Vending Kiosk and Mini fish de-scaling machine through private sector partnership for supporting fish product development and increase fish consumption.