 Having seen the benefits of weedicides in terms of higher yield and reduction in the drudgery of the women, the hill farmers now prefer to use weedicides in controlling weeds. Experimental field for long-term fertility management DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 190 SUCCESS STORY PERFORMANCE OF VL DHAN 206 In hill districts of Uttaranchal, rainfed rice occupies about 80-85% of total area under rice. Traditionally, hill farmers grow spring rice, locally known as chaiti dhan, using traditional cropping system. Spring rice is direct-seeded during March-April under rainfed upland condition. Usually farmers grow low-yielding traditional varieties. VL Dhan 206 is an improved rice variety developed at this Institute for cultivation in the spring season. It was sown at farmers’ fields of the villages adopted under IVLP programme of the Institute. This variety yielded 32% higher (with average 2.19 and 4.03 tonnes/ha of grain and straw yields respectively) than local cultivars. Having seen the good performance of VL Dhan 206, majority of the farmers adopted it, and nearby villagers have accepted this variety as replacement for the local cultivars. SUCCESS STORY AGROFORESTRY SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT FOR NORTH-WEST HIMALAYAS As there is an acute shortage of fodder round the year in hills, a sizeable areas available under forests and wastelands can be utilized to boost up fodder production. Presently, low-yielding natural grasses generally cover these areas. Improved grasses may have their preference for a particular type of land site, depending on their nature of growth. Therefore, two improved grasses (Pennisetum purpureum and Thysanolaena maxima) were tested under slopping and marshy land and under deodar tree along with local grasses. The P. purpureum produced highest green forage (55.60 tonnes/ha) under deodar tree, followed by slopping land (52.50 tonnes/ha). In case of marshy land, establishment of P. purpureum and T. maxima was poor during the first year compared with that under slopy land and under deodar tree. Local grasses did not perform well in all these places. Cultivation of forages is rarely practised in hills due to small land holdings, difficult terrain and poor socio-economic conditions of farmers, leading to acute fodder shortage. Improved grass Pennisetum purpureum was grown under deodar tree which gave green forage of 55.60 tonnes/ha RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS 191 Transfer of Technology The Institute carried out this programme in three villages of Hawalbagh block of Almora district. Cultivation of improved varieties at farmers’ fields showed 150- 200% increased yield. The FLDs on rice and wheat showed significant results. Demonstration on weed control was one of the very successful interventions. Isoproturon was found very effective in controlling Ranunculus — a menacing weed of wheat in the hills. Use of weedicide helped in reducing the drudgery of the women of the area to great extent.