 Further plan is to work on SVM / ANN machine learning algorithms to classify the degree of ripeness in oil palm fresh fruit bunches (FFBs) and correlate them with the oil content and free fatty acid levels, which may be useful in ensuring low free fatty acid content on palm oil. Supply chains are increasingly virtualised in response to market challenges and to opportunities offered by now- a-days affordable new technologies. The Internet of Things concept can be used to enhance virtualisation of supply chains in the Floriculture sector. Virtualisation is expected to have a big impact in this sector where currently most products still physically pass through auction houses on their fixed routes from growers to customers. E-commerce has seen a stable growth over the last few decades. The COVID-19 pandemic enhanced such habit as 30% of consumers claimed to have started using e-commerce during lockdown. Among the available platforms for e-commerce, mobile phone apps were chosen as a focus because of higher number of mobile phone users. The fruit and vegetable vending vans along with mobile apps have played a vital role in ensuring the supply of fresh vegetables in several metro cities. At ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru, fruit and vegetable vending vans have been developed which played a vital role during the pandemic period. Digital solution for seed and planting material production, processing, tracking, distribution and sales Digitalization in the seed production can be used by field workers to record the data on the field in an MIS for management to monitor activities from breeders. Smart loggers can be used in plant growth observations, crop health detection, and crop stress detection. Smart loggers can be designed specifically to be used by the management to monitor the location of field workers. After harvesting, the management of seeds can be done digitally through loggers. One of the biggest issues faced by farmers today is fake seed and planting material. Traceability can solve this problem as it tracks the source of seeds/plants. Traceability can also be used for tracking and removing of seeds and plants from the market that do not meet the certification standards. QR codes on the packet can be scanned to view the complete history of the packet of seeds and hence farmers know whether the seeds are genuine. Seed producers and suppliers can manage their entire seed distribution and sales by this way. Crop timing prediction Artificial intelligence can be used to predict the optimal harvest timing. It can also be used to help in enhancing crop yield and increase profits. With artificial intelligence algorithms, agriculture can be managed more efficiently and produce more output than traditional methods. Data collected about the environment such as rainfall forecast, water quality etc. can be leveraged by it. It can identify issues that farmers may otherwise miss.