 There is a need of surveillance to quantify the burden of antibiotic resistance to implement measures for its containment on biomedical, clinical, socio-behavioural, drug discovery/diagnostics and policy grounds. Environmental hazards and climate change: Effects of climate change on human health can be expected to be mediated through complex interactions of physical, ecological and social factors. These effects will undoubtedly have a greater impact on societies or individuals with scarce resources, where technologies are lacking, and where infrastructure and institutions (such as the health sector) are least able to adapt. Collaboration between veterinary, medical, environment specialists, anthropologists and public health professionals to understand the ecological interactions, and reactions to flux in a system can facilitate a clearer understanding of climate change impacts on environmental, animal, and human health. The global environment is rapidly changing and animals, and human beings are exposed to shared environmental health risks. Environmental disasters such as Hurricane Katrina wreak havoc on both human and animal populations. Now people are increasingly aware of the need for a more collective approach to tackle certain urgent environmental problems. Food safety: Food-borne illness and food safety issues constitute an unmanageable enigma, especially in developing and underdeveloped countries which are generally lacking in better surveillance, modern traceability, and diagnostic methods to locate and report such outbreaks. With burgeoning incidences of food-borne illnesses, there is growing public awareness of food safety, food security and sustainability in food production practices. Adoption of an integrated approach for food safety throughout the food chain ‘farm-to-fork’ is critical for preventing food-borne diseases and other food safety hazards, and is the need of the hour. Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs), Good Hygiene Practices (GHPs) and Good Manufacturing Practices (GMPs) lay the foundation for food safety systems. Preventive approaches such as the Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) system have resulted in the industry taking greater responsibility for the control of food safety risks. Residues of pesticides from foods of plant origin and antibiotics residues from animal-sourced foods are some of the unaddressed issues that question the very foundation of our farming practices today. The livestock sector is an area in which One Health’s thinking and action can make a difference in human lives and livelihoods. Efforts to respond to food insecurity, food safety and food trade challenges have addressed all four dimensions of food security namely, availability, access, utilization, and stability.