 yy Sharing of tissue culture protocol with CAZRI for date-palm yy ICAR Institutes such as IIWBR, CAZRI, IIPR, IGFRI and others to take advantage of the promising materials from ICARDA Over all, the progress made under ICAR-ICARDA Partnership was satisfactory. (IV) International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) Dr. Arvind Kumar presented a brief account on ICAR-IRRI Research partnership. Salient highlights included the following: i. The new science for new variety with regard to roots traits, and trait discovery leading to identification of 9 significant MTAs for BB and 12 MTAs for blast. ii. Three advanced rice lines after testing in AICRP have been identified and released. iii. Through joint efforts, the diagnostic kit called `SWEETR’ has been developed to identify rice bacterial blight pathogen. 690 lines have already been entered into trials. iv. Total of 163 kg of seeds were shared through INGER program. Efforts on climate smart management of rice systems, viable crop intensification and water management measures have been advocated; soil moisture map has also been developed for Odisha and Assam as part of the rice fallow work plan; Mass demonstration on pulses, digital extension through digital apps (such as Rice Crop Manager, SeedCast and RiceDoctor, which all have been linked to the common service centre CSC portal as well) and rice value chain are the other highlights. Integrated solutions to risk management linked to crop insurance was one of the successful awareness programs through these joint efforts. The following points were suggested: yy The ongoing programs to be continued with great vigour and in active partnership with ICAR Institutes. yy Marking assisted breeding has been successful in rice. This needs to be accelerated for curbing complex traits. Special focus is essential by IRRI. yy The work on rice epigenetics be further extended in collaboration with NRRI, IASRI, ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 82 IARI, NIPB, and may be some others as well. yy Special emphasis to be given for strengthening of digital extension and development of rice value chain; IRRI to work in collaboration with NRRI and IIRR on defined points. yy IRRI to facilitate more human resource development (HRD) programs through this partnership in the areas of genomic selection, big data analysis, epigenome analysis, advanced rice quality analysis, and trait discovery. The progress made under ICAR-IRRI Partnership was found satisfactory. (V) International Water Management Institute (IWMI) i. Dr. A.K. Sikka gave a consolidated account on ICAR-IWMI partnership. Under project `Enhancing economic water productivity in canal irrigation system’, he explained the tradeoff between variability and supply, and need for policy interventions (such as a testimony from Pune district, Maharashtra) to increase resiliency. ii.