 At the same time, it helps ensure sustainable stewardship of the planet’s natural resources, raises productivity and contributes to national economic growth. Promoting Sustainable Agriculture (SA), food security and improving the nutritional status of food produced for humans well as for animal consumption are a few of the key focus areas under the CAAST component of NAHEP. For example, a few partner AUs have established the School of Natural Resource Management and Sustainable Agriculture to introduce various sustainable practices in Agriculture while improving the environmental, soil and water health, specifically in the northern region of India. SDG 2.4 states that “By 2030, ensure sustainable food production systems and implement resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and other disasters and that progressively improve land and soil quality”. Partner AUs under CAAST have taken several initiatives to meet this goal, such as: 24 yy AUs have ensured sustainable agricultural practices by developing and adopting Internet of things (IoT)based technologies to improve irrigation efficiency and timely assess soil health. For example, the innovation under irrigation- ‘Auto PIS’, helps to schedule the irrigation without any human intervention based on sensors. After the adoption of Auto PIS technology, farmers can apply the precise amount of water on the field, which will save electricity, water and labour cost and ultimately increases crop productivity and contribute to better soil health. On the other hand, the ‘Phule Soil Moisture Sensor’ helps farmers to understand soil health through moisture sensors and the need for nutrition, irrigation timing etc. Through these innovations, partner AU has benefitted more than 6000 farmers. yy Under the C A A S T , ‘Introgression lines of mustard from B. rapa D. e r u c o i d e s ’ has been d e v e l o p e d . T h e s e introgression lines will be useful in breeding m u s t a r d c u l t i v a r s resistant to Alternaria blight (one of the major diseases in mustard). yy Developed Sub-Baric Food Grain Storage Bin: Sub-baric storage method involves (manually or automatically) placing food grains in a storage structure, removing air from inside and sealing. The intent of vacuum storage is usually to remove oxygen from the container to extend the shelf-life of food grains. Vacuum storage reduces atmospheric oxygen, limiting the growth of aerobic bacteria or fungi and preventing the evaporation of volatile components. The sub-baric storage bin can be used for storage of cereals, pulses and oil seeds for extension of the shelf-life of food grains.