 As the coordination and convergence is an important issue for strengthening agricultural extension system in the country, the Committee had detailed deliberations with the senior officials of DAC, Planning Commission, some senior Vice Chancellors of SAUs, few state officers and senior experts, besides Director General, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), ICAR and other functionaries. The minutes of the meeting held on 14-15 December, 2011 are provided in the CD attached with this report. There was general consensus that the existing mechanism of coordination between KVK and ATMA must be revisited to ensure better complementarities and improved efficiency. Also, linkage with other programmes funded by the Central Government (RKVY, MGNREGA, NFSMS, NHM, ISOPAM etc) and the State Governments will help in ensuring greater impact on the livelihood of smallholder farmers. Committee was of the view to have more innovative ways devised to have yet better and more effective linkages. In this context, first priority should be to revisit the guidelines on coordination and convergence between KVK and ATMA and to delineate specific responsibilities on either side both for effective output and avoidance of duplication, if any. In this regard, it would be appropriate if the following suggestions of the Committee are taken into consideration. ●In a true partnership mode, the KVK should function as a frontline extension system, whereas, ATMA to act as a field extension agency for large scale technology dissemination/adoption. As suggested in this report that while KVKs would work in a “cluster mode”, the district level ATMA functionaries could take lead in out scaling of successful technologies/innovations through large-scale demonstrations and further verification/validation. ●While KVK would have major responsibilities for technology verification and its upscaling, ATMA could play an important role for large scale dissemination through involvement of mass media (ICT, Radio, TV etc), farmers’ organizations, NGOs and private sector. It could also be the major player for public awareness and large scale supply of technology linked inputs. On the contrary, KVK should assume specific role of ATIC through production of seeds, planting materials, livestock materials, fingerlings value-added products, publications, prototypes of small implements, etc. ●The Project Director, ATMA and his team should plan periodical joint visits to the cluster villages of KVKs for gaining first-hand knowledge on new technologies being demonstrated so that activities could be initiated under ATMA for large-scale disseminations. Apart from cluster villages, the problems or issues noticed by Project Director, ATMA and his staff in other villages could be brought to the notice of KVK staff to ensure necessary follow-up.