 Data collection tools To assess the effectiveness, training transfer and impact of CAFT programmes, suitable instruments were developed to be administered among various stakeholders of CAFT programmes as follows: Instrument to assess the effectiveness and training transfer of CAFT programmes from the participants (Annexure-1). The instrument had the following components:  Personal profile  Motivation behind participation in CAFT programmes  Training transfer system (Trainees attributes, training design and delivery, organizational support climate and transfer outcomes) (Fig. 1)  Effectives of training programmes Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 16  Constraints in training transfer  Suggestion to improve CFAT training programmes  Preferences towards CAFT training programmes Instrument to assess the handholding support extended by CAFT Directors (Annexure- II). The instrument had the following components:  Personal profile  Efforts taken by the CAFT Directors before, during and after training  Handholding extended by CAFT Directors Instrument to assess the organization-wise impact of CAFT programmes (Annexure- III). The instrument had the following components:  Personal profile  Impact of CAFT on research activities  Impact of educational activities  Impact of CAFT on extension activities Instrument to assess the effectiveness of CAFT programmes-Concurrent evaluation (Annexure-IV). The instrument had the following components:  Personal profile  Expectation from the CAFT training  Training evaluation towards pedagogy and training environment Instruments to assess the performance of CAFT participants by peer group (Annexure V) and deputing authorities (Annexure VI). The instruments had the following components:  Personal profile  Opinion of peer group/ deputing authorities towards performance of CAFT participants  Suggestions for refining CAFT methodology Conceptual model of the study Based on extensive literature review, a conceptual model was developed for planning and carrying out the study. The conceptual model is based on the premise that training effectiveness vis-à-vis training transfer is the combined responsibility of the a) the trainee, Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 17 ii) the training organization and iii) the trainee‟s (sponsoring) organization. The conceptual model envisages four main domains representing trainee attributes, attributes of organizational climate, training design and delivery and transfer outcomes. Depending on the relevance these domains and their attributes were measured before training, during training and after training as perceived by the trained participants.