42 q/ha) was recorded in the rice-cauliflower-cowpea sequence, while the lowest (87.78 q/ha) was in the rice-wheat sequence. In cropping sequences where two vegetable crops were included, the REY was 154.67% (rice-pea-okra) to 254% (rice-cauliflower-cowpea) higher than in the rice-wheat system. The inclusion of vegetable crops to diversify the rice-wheat system significantly increased system productivity. The percentage contribution of vegetables to total productivity ranged from 78.72% in the rice- pea-okra sequence to 85.17% in the rice-cauliflower- cowpea sequence under lowland conditions. Including one vegetable crop in three or four crop-based patterns sharply increased the REY of the cropping system. Economic analysis Economic analysis was conducted based on the prevailing market prices of the commodities. Gross return varied across cropping systems due to the inclusion of vegetables. Under low midland conditions, the highest gross return (` 606,258/ha), gross margin (` 396,208/ha), and benefit-cost ratio (2.90) were obtained in the rice-cauliflower-cowpea sequence, likely due to the inclusion of high-value vegetables (e.g., cauliflower) and higher yield in this sequence. This was closely followed by the rice-pea-pumpkin sequence with a gross return of ` 575,921, net return of ` 393,771, and a B:C ratio of 3.16, and the rice-tomato-bottle gourd sequence with a gross return of `536,882/ha, net return of ` 312,432/ha, and a B:C ratio of 2.39. The higher returns were likely due to the lower cost of cultivation and better market prices for the crops in these sequences. Vegetables, being capital- and labour- intensive, incurred higher cultivation costs than cereal crops across the cropping sequences. Other studies Indian Farming 13 October 2024 have also shown that three-crop- based sequences with vegetables are agronomically feasible and economically profitable compared to the rice-wheat system traditionally followed by farmers. Farmers’ opinions Farmers expressed that two to three vegetable crops could be successfully grown after rice in the same field within a year. However, they noted that sometimes they did not benefit as much from vegetables due to increased labour costs during peak periods and lower wholesale market prices. Additionally, occasional outbreaks of disease and insect problems increased production costs. CONCLUSION The objective was crop diversification to increase cropping intensity and productivity, thereby enhancing income. In low midland areas, rice is the default crop during the kharif season due to its ability to grow and produce a reasonable yield under waterlogged conditions, where no other crops can be grown. High-yielding, disease-resistant vegetable varieties were introduced to increase productivity during the rabi and summer seasons.