 Wheat productivity is reduced by around 1.50 quintals per week if planted after mid-November. Early planted crops generate considerably greater tiller count, plant height, leaf area index and dry-matter production, resulting in increased yield, and yield attributes. Therefore, maintaining appropriate planting time is one of the most important agronomic practices for getting optimum plant growth and yield of wheat under heat-stressed environment. Irrigation management: High temperatures primarily promote plant transpiration. As a result, as long as the plants meet the greater transpiration requirement, they are not vulnerable to heat stress. Heat stress is commonly associated with water stress. Water stressed plants conserve water by closing their stomata, which results in less evaporative cooling and a pause in photosynthesis, which results in a reduction in other metabolic activity. As a result, water management is crucial during heat stress because appropriate moisture availability in the field can mitigate the harmful effects of high temperatures. Depending upon the rainfall, irrigate the timely sown crop up to the end of March to avoid the harmful effect of unusual rise in temperature at grain filling/formation stage. Care should be taken not to irrigate the crop on windy days to avoid lodging. Tillage and residue management: Under high-temperature stress, conservation agricultural (CA) methods based on sustaining soil moisture looks like viable alternatives. Researchers observed that keeping rice residue in an IGP rice-wheat system lowered canopy temperature in wheat by 1–4°C relative to ambient temperature between 138–153 days after sowing (DAS). Nowadays, wheat is sown by using different methods such as happy seeder, super seeder, and smart seeder, surface seeding, by which the straw of the proceeding crop is retained either by incorporation or as mulch. Mulching insulating the soil surface, consequently reduces the solar energy reaching the soil and, finally, reduces temperature increases during warm condition. The second reason for lower soil temperature under mulched field is higher water storage as compared to non-mulched field. Therefore, as compared to no mulching, paddy straw mulching conserved more water during the post-anthesis period, which results in enhanced grain production. In addition, the availability of soil moisture can help wheat plants to minimize canopy temperature through transpiration cooling and avoid heat stress. Adequate nutrition: Efficient nutrient management is one way to reduce the impact of heat stress and sustain crop productivity. Optimization of nitrogen Table 1. Optimal temperature requirements of wheat at different growth stages Stage Optimum temperature (°C) Minimum temperature (°C) Maximum temperature (°C) Terminal spikelet 16.0 ± 2.30 2.50 ± 0.49 20.0 ± 1.60 Anthesis 23.0 ± 1.75 10.0 ± 1.12 26.0 ± 1.01 Grain filling duration 26.0 ± 1.53 13.0 ± 1.45 30.0 ± 2.13 Source: Khan et al.