 Hence, the assessment of training transfer cannot be viewed as a factor predicted by individual traits/ domains. All the traits of training design, trainee characteristics and the transfer environment constitute the training transfer system as a whole (Holton et al 2000), and hence the training transfer has to be viewed as an impact of training transfer system governed by major domains and in turn the traits of the domains. Centres of Advanced Faculty Training Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through its scheme on Centres on Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) has been supporting the faculty of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in the cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences with respect to research, education and extension capacity demands. There are 31 such centres established all over the country. Such centres have been building the capacity of scientific faculty in terms of up-grading their skills since the inception of this scheme. During the XI plan period, the centres organized 213 need-based capacity building programmes, each of 21 days duration. The capacity building areas pertain to key areas of agriculture and allied sciences viz, precision farming, transgenics, genomics, molecular breeding and marker assisted selection, nanotechnology, bio-informatics, climate change mitigation and adaptation, GIS applications for natural resource management, technology forecasting and visioning etc. About 3600 scientists/ faculty members of NARS participated and benefitted from such capacity building programmes. Through such Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 12 efforts, about 200 course manuals and resource materials were prepared around emerging areas of agriculture and allied sciences. Assessment of effectiveness and training transfer of CAFT There is a felt need to improve the design, pattern and content of CAFT capacity building programmes. Such need has been felt pertinent in order to match the evolving demands pertaining to the perspectives of contemporary agricultural dynamics. Such improvement can be done against a benchmark set through assessment of effectiveness of CAFT capacity building programmes and the resultant training transfer by the participants of such programmes. Any such impact assessment must view the capacity building programmes from several dimensions such as instructional outcomes, training needs, training impact on the job performance of the scientists, benefits derived by the sponsoring research institutions and further improvements required if any (Samantha et al 1991). Further, the studies conducted at NAARM (Samanta et al 2003 and 2004) imply that there is a need for improving the training design of capacity building programmes to support training transfer back at work place.