 Relaxation of Qualifications for Engineering and Technology Group in Grades S-2 and S-3 (i) In exceptional cases, the qualifications may be relaxed at the discretion of the A.S.R.B. (ii) The posts of Engineering and Technology Group may be filled on contract basis on the recommendations of the A.S.R.B. since candidates possessing Doctorate Degree in Naval Architect are not normally available and in such cases there may not be any regular pay scale for these posts but instead it may be left to the discretion of the A.S.R.B. to recommend 'a specific lump-sum pay to be allowed, (iii) For ICAR employees recruited to the posts in this discipline withB.E./B. Tech. Degree who obtain M.Sc./M. Tech. Degree, the experience acquired by them as B.E./B. Tech. in service would be counted for the purpose of recruitment to higher posts. 4. CONSTITUTION AND MAINTENANCE OF THE SERVICE 1. Eligibles The existing employees of the Council holding Scientific ana Technical posts on the date of the constitution of the Service i.e. October 1, 1975 : (a) on regular basis; or (b) in supernumerary capacity; or (c) on notional foreign service provided they opted for the Council's service by 31-3-1977; and satisfying the conditions given below were eligible for induction; (i) Minimum qualification of a Master's Degree or equivalent in any branch of Agriculture, Animal Sciences including Fisheries, Forestry, General Science, Home Science, Social Sciences, statistics or Mathematics. or Bachelor's Degree in any branch of Engineering or Technology; and (ii) Holding posts in any of the scales of pay ranging from Rs 425-700 to Rs 2000-2500. The Council's candidates holding Scientific and Technical posts in any of the aforesaid grades on 1.10.75, who acquired the minimum qualifications within a period of five years from the date of introduction of the Service were also considered for, induction, with effect from the date (s).of their acquiring the prescribed qualifications in the manner laid down in Rule 10 of these Rules. [No. 8-25/76-Per IV dt. 1.2.1982] 2. Screening for Induction All eligible persons were duly screened by the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board on the basis of the information contained in their bio- data forms and other relevant documents. For this purpose, the Board had set up selection committees with the Chairman or his nominee as Presi- dent with not more than three scientists as core members and not more than three other scientists a§ additional members (determined according to the background of the scientists to be assessed). 3. Mode of Induction The induction has been done in equivalent grades with effect from 1-10-1975, the date of initial constitution of the Service, i.e. the grade of induction of a person has been determined having regard to the grade of ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 25 post held by him prior to his induction.