 The quality of the planting material is determined by its origin, the authenticity of the variety and stock, vegetation development, and the state of health. At present, the planting material of various ornamental crops including orchids, is imported in tissue culture bottles or hardened seedlings or plants just before flowering. Only a few tissue laboratories in Maharashtra produce certified quality planting material of some ornamental plants as per the guidelines of National Certification Systems for Tissue Culture Raised Plants (NCS-TCP). There is no commercial tissue culture laboratory supplying quality planting material of ornamental plants in the Northeastern states. Creation of post-harvest management infrastructure Post-harvest management helps to maintain product quality by minimising losses caused by physical, biological and environmental factors. Post-harvest losses occur in the value chain at the farm, wholesaler and retailer levels. The unit operations involved in the post-harvest handling of flowers include harvesting, grading, pre-treatment/pulsing, tubing, sleeving or pre-packaging, packaging, storage and transport. The lack of post-harvest infrastructure deteriorates the quality of perishable commodities. The region has inadequate post-harvest and marketing infrastructure and therefore needs to be developed as soon as possible. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, ICAR-Directorate of Floricultural Research Hadapsar Campus, Zed Corner Mundhwa, Keshavnagar Pune 411 036, Maharashtra Email: director.dfr@icar.gov.in Siroi Lily Movable screens in rose production • Use movable screen, an important tool for rose cultivation. • It can help growers manipulate environment conditions — lowers temperature, changes humidity and influences production numbers. • The movable screens can be used year-round and in a variety of climates — from the Netherlands to India. Indian Horticulture 84 Prospects Cocoa Cultivation in Northeast Region INDIA has vast potential to promote cocoa in Northeast region, where the agro climatic condition is suitable with high rainfall, short dry spell and sub tropic humid climate. Palms and local, native, region specific fruit/ forest trees are also available which provide 50% shade required by cocoa and accommodate it as agro-forestry system as well. Realizing its potential, the Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, GoI, has proposed an area of 50,000 ha to be expanded in Northeast region. With this background, this article analyzed the scope and prospects of cocoa in Northeast region. C OCOA (Theobroma cacao L.), the chocolate tree, is currently being cultivated as a mixed crop in palm based cropping systems of India comprising arecanut, coconut and oil palm gardens. Cocoa plantations are confined to Western Ghats hills and plains of Southern states, Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh.