 Thus, we see that India is enriched by both traditional and commercial forms of agriculture. OBJECTIVES  To study the various techniques and methods used in Traditional and Modern Agricultural Practices in India.  To study the difference and problems faced by Traditional and Modern Agriculture in India. REVIEW OF LITERATURE  Badgley et al. (2007) initially attempted to analyze the yield comparison between organic and modern agriculture practices at the global scale and documented a large output of organic practices over conventional practices. This study was adequately performed on 34 crop species covering 62 sites and 316 case studies. Another study revealed that organic-based agriculture had a 25% lower average yield than modern practices. When the yield comparison was made with best practices and high performing varieties, it exhibited that the production was nearly 13% lower than modern practices.  Sofia et al (2006) Traditional agriculture is nearly 4000 years old. Indian agriculture comprises a mosaic of diverse TAPs which is the result of its various agro-climatic conditions, soil type and vegetation resulting in heterogamous farming. Apart from ecological adaptation, the source of economy, survival capability, religious and cultural aspect also plays a significant role in traditional crop diversification. Agriculture is the cornerstone of the Indian economy, which contributed about 50% workforce and 17–18% of gross domestic product (GDP) as reported in the economic survey report of India for the year 2017–2018. Presently, two-thirds of Indian agriculture is rainfed which produces almost half of the total production of the country. This rainfed farming has remained unaffected to the detrimental effect of the green revolution. Indian agriculture is based on the monsoon cycle where variable climatic conditions make it more diverse in the different parts of the country. © 2022 IJNRD | Volume 7, Issue 8 August 2022 | ISSN: 2456-4184 | IJNRD.ORG IJNRD2208088 International Journal of Novel Research and Development (www.ijnrd.org) 832 AGRICULTURAL METHODS OF THE INDIAN FARMER Agriculture farming in India is the oldest activity and has been the major livelihood for farmers. Over the years, farming methods in India have changed, thanks to the technology invention making the lives of farmers easy. Socio-cultural practices, climatic conditions, and other aspects have also contributed to the innovation in Indian farming. Currently, both traditional farming methods in India and modern farming are practiced. TRADITIONAL FARMING Traditional farming is defined as a primitive way of farming that involves the use of labour-intensive, traditional knowledge, tools, natural resources, organic fertilizer, and old customs and cultural beliefs of the farmers.  TRADITIONAL FARMING PRACTICES DEFORESTATION. Deforestation is the process of cutting down trees for agricultural and productive activities.