 Cattle improvement and management The common people in India during the colonial period used to prefer buffalo over cow for dairying due to their higher milk yield as well as more fat content in the milk. The yield of buffaloes was somewhere around 2.27 litre per day. Cows were specifically preferred in those areas where pastures were present. The average milk yield of cow in the country ranged from 0.4 to 1.8 litre per day depending on the breed, place of rearing and management practices. Moreover, the length of their lactation period was only six months (Randhawa 1983). Some cattle breeds like Gujarat, Sind, Ongole and Nellore were considered better Animal Husbandry in Pre-Independent India 49 than others while there was a vast scope for improvement of other local cattle. Good dairy animals were fed with oilcake and cotton seed for maintaining their productivity. During late eighteenth century, William Frazer suggested breeding of indigenous cattle with the bulls of Nagore breed. Afterwards, cattle breeding started in the Government Cattle Farm of Hisar in 1815. The major focus of the farm was on Hariana, a dual-purpose cattle breed. In order to improve the milk yield, Mysore cattle was also crossed with Sind, Gujarat, Ongole and Nagore breeds in the Hisar farm. Moreover, the Gujarat cows were studied in detail in Pune. The Royal Commission on Agriculture (1928) reported poor health and low milk yield of Indian cattle as a major constraint in dairy development following which exotic breeds were introduced in the country for breed improvement. For increasing the milk yield, Ayrshire and Friesian bulls were recommended for crossing with the native cows. Gradually, provincial agricultural departments took the responsibility of cattle breeding and some of the provincial governments further encouraged the projects related to livestock improvement. There was a huge outbreak of Cattle Plague (Rinderpest) in 1865-67 and millions of bovines died in different parts of the country leading to a series of famines (Mishra 2011). In order to avoid spread of disease to the military farms, the government was forced to take concrete steps for its control. As a result, Cattle Plague Commission was formed in the year 1868 for proper disease management. Unfortunately, government was interested in disease management only when their own herd was under threat. However, between 1901 and 1904, lots of work was carried out for the treatment of anthrax and hemorrhagic septicemia and a vaccine was developed each against black-quarter and rinderpest. 4.4. Effect on pastoralism Animal husbandry was an important source of livelihood not only for the farmers practicing settled agriculture but also for the pastoral communities. The colonial rule affected the lives of pastoralists to a great extent. Most of the grazing lands were diverted for cultivation which led to the decline of pastures.