3 Before submitting the application, the society/organization should ensure that the Audited Utilization Certificate of the grant(s) released by the Council in the previous years if any, has been submitted to and acknowledged by the Council. No grant will be sanctioned or released to any society/organization which has failed to submit A.U.C. in respect of grants made earlier. 6.4 The application shall be counter signed by the President/Chairperson/Head of the Institution/Vice-Chancellor of the University. Preferably, application should be submitted online . 6.5 Applications which do not satisfy the conditions or are incomplete will not be considered. A list of such applications will however, be put up to the Standing Committee for information. 6.6 No application for holding of seminars/symposia/ conferences will be entertained if it is received after the deadline given below: National events: • On or before 15th September if events fall between next January and April. • On or before 15th January if events fall between next May and August. • On or before 15th May if events fall between next September and December. International events: • On or before 15th May if events fall between next January and April. • On or before 15th September if events fall between next May and August. On or before 15th January if events fall between next September and December. 6.7 For publication of journal The societies/bodies requesting for annual financial assistance from the Council for publication of journal should submit at least two copies of the latest issue of journal which should not be more than one year behind the schedule along with application and AUC as per 6.2, 6.3 and 6.4. For renewal of Annual Grant in subsequent years, application in the prescribed proforma will have to be submitted latest by 31st July of that year. 6.8 Applications which do not satisfy the conditions or are incomplete will not be considered. A list of such applications will however, be put up to the Standing Committee for information. 6.9 A Society having a valid Registration Number under the Society Act should be eligible to receive grant from the ICAR. The society should be active and is performing as per its constitution. 6.10 It is necessary to submit duly filled in check list [Annexure 3(III) & 3(IV)] along with the application, failing which the application will not be accepted. 6.11 It will be mandatory on the part of organizing society/body to obtain prior approval at least three months in advance, of the nodal Ministry as well as Ministry of Home and External Affairs. No request for release of financial assistance for International seminars/symposia/conferences shall be further processed by the Council before such approval is made available. 7. Evaluation of application in ICAR 7.1 For publishing Journal 7.1.