 Narsimha Rao, Meerkhanpet, Kandukur, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : Meerkhanpet Village, Kandukur Mandal, Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) Experimenters : Dr B. Sanjeeva Reddy, Scientist (FMP), Dr G. Nirmala, Scientist, (Sr. Scale, Agricultural Extension) and Dr G.Subba Reddy, Scientist (Agronomy), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad METHODOLOGY The Meerkhanpet village of Kandukur mandal of Ranga Reddy district where the ITK is being practiced was chosen for validation during 2001_02. The farmers in that village were stratified as per the size of the holding into marginal (<1.0 ha), small (1_2 ha), medium (2_4 ha) and big (> 4.0 ha). The farmers for this investigation were selected by stratified random sampling, representing 5% under each category. Focus group interactions were organized to identify the farmers voluntarily to participate in the validation process. The implement as per the specifications of pingali dhanti was fabricated with the help of local artisan during June 2002. Six farmers representing different categories were selected and trained to acquaint the various methodologies to implement the programme of validation. Based upon the interaction of selected farmers, an understanding was developed between the farmers and facilitators of the investigation in selection of the experimental sites, implemen-tation of the programme and collection of the pertinent data. The data for the investigation were collected jointly by the farmers and facilitators. This process facilitated increase in the participation of the farming community and also bringing about awareness on the utility of the indigenous implement and recording the farmers' indicators on the efficiency and effectiveness of the implement under their own situations. Each farmer was treated as a replication, and statistical analysis of data was done for various parameters to find out actual effectiveness of the treatments. The parameters such as field capacity, weeding efficiency and draft of the implements were worked out based upon the following considerations. Fieldcapacity: It is the actual average rate of field coverage by the implement (ha/day or ha/hr) Weeding efficiency: It is the ratio of weeds removed by interculture implement/weeding tool to the weeds present in the field before weeding operation; generally the weeding efficiency is computed by the following formula: Wn = [ (Wc _ Wt)/Wc ] в 100   FARM IMPLEMENTS Frame length: 30 cm Height of the frame at the blade point: 60 cm Effective blade length: 35 cm Total weight of the implement: 45 kg Traditional blade harrow (Fig.