 Various international scholarships and fellowships are channelized through DARE for enabling foreign students to come and study in India and also for enabling our scientists for study and capacity building programs abroad. 4 At ICAR level, in order to facilitate the International Cooperation and to bridge the functionalities between DARE and ICAR, and eventually beyond Ministry level, the International Relations (IR) Division has been established in ICAR Headquarters in 2014 with the following mandate: 1. To reach beyond borders legitimately for Agri-R&D. 2. To do global technology foresighting and partnerships 3. To enable research proposals for foreign collaboration and funding. 4. To facilitate SMD/Institute interface with DARE as a single-window and vice versa. 5. To enable official expert visitors from foreign countries to ICAR Institutes, and from India to abroad Guidelines for Foreign Deputation and Global Partnership DARE-ICAR guidelines for establishing foreign collaborations vide F.No. 290/ IR/Misc. Corr./2018 dt. 8th May, 2018 has been hosted in the DARE and ICAR websites. The IR Division of the Council further also enables and handholds all its Research Institutes and State/Central Agricultural Universities for establishing global partnerships. Likewise, if any international or global organizations and agencies are interested in collaboration in India for agricultural research and education, the International Relations (IR) division of ICAR enables and facilitates the same following the standard guidelines. Foreign students who are interested in taking admission to Indian Agricultural Universities for degree programs and foreign scientists for capacity building in India, the DARE-ICAR helps them through Indian Missions abroad in identifying the appropriate Universities, Institutes, etc. In order to provide single window management system for quick processing foreign deputation of scientist/officers, the International Relations (IR) Division of ICAR in cooperation with International Cooperation (IC) Section of the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) has put in place a Foreign Visit Management System (https://fvms.icar.gov.in). During the last three years (2017-19), a total of over 688 Scientists/science leaders were deputed abroad under various MoUs and agreements with foreign agencies/ countries. 5 Global Partnerships for Agri-R&D 6 ICAR-CGIAR Research Collaboration Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR), a global partnership that unites international organizations working on food and agriculture, is having close collaboration with Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). It works through its 15 Research Centres. Out of these 15 Centres, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has its headquarter at Hyderabad in the State of Telangana, India.