 Population and Quantitative Genetics Genetics of population, changes in allelic and genotypic frequency, effective population size, inbreeding and coefficients, Fitness, qualitative and qualitative trits, components of variance, additive and non-additive variance, Genetic variability and differentiation, Genetic similarity and Nei’s genetic distance, Genetic bottle neck and mutation drift equilibrium, null alleles, population genomics, outlier loci and adaptive variation in trait-related genes. Unit 3: Genetic Tools for Aquaculture Application DNA markers in stock identification: Allzymes, RFLP, RAPD, AFLP, Microsatellites, ESTs, SNPs, Type I and II markers, mtDNA and nuclear DNA markers, Real-time PCR and EST markers, Lab assays for markers. Next generation sequencing, Applications for species identification, hybridization, stock identification, genetic diversity and conservation, Parentage, Linkage and QLT mapping, microarray genes, karyotyping and chromosome banding. Transgenics, GMO and biosafety regulations, designer ornamental fish, transgenic containment. Unit 4: Breeding of Fish and Shellfish Genetic basis for Selection of fish for breeding, QLT and marker assisted selection, sire and dam evaluation, selection for threshold characters, inbreeding effects, cross breeding and hybridization, selection and mating designs for select traits, selection for disease resistance, monosex, cryopreservation of gametes. Endocrine control of reproduction in fish and shellfish, synchronization of spawning, broodstock development and management, use of happa, care of fertilized eggs, assessing stripping, induced normality and mortality. Live feed development for larvae, larval feeding and maintenance, packaging and transport of shrimp post larvae, fish and fingerlings, eyed larvae or spat of molluscs. Nursery systems and their operation. Unit 5: Conservation, Bioinformatics Breeding strategies for threatened species for restocking and live gene bank (LGB), in situ and ex situ conservation, pluripotent embryonic stem (ES) cells and germ cells, primary and established cell line cultures, cell cloning, cell hybridization, hybridoma technology, data mining tools, submission of DNA sequences, GenBank sequence database, Genome diagnostics, genome and transcriptome analysis, protein information resources, EST database, phylogenetic analysis, microarray informatics. 106 12 NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT-I 12.1. FORESTRY/AGROFORESTRY Unit 1 National Forest Policy 1894, 1952 and 1988; Indian Forest Act, 1927; Forest Conservation Act,1980 and Wildlife Protection Act, 1972; Amendments 1991, 2003 and 2006, Biological Diversity Act, 2002, The Scheduled Tribes and Other traditional forest dwellers (Recognition of Forest Rights) Act, 2006.