 The results showed that we have now spoken about transforming traditional agriculture to digital agriculture or Agriculture 4.0. The flagship of modern technologies linked with digital transformation is to guarantee the capability to obtain in situ measurements remotely and in real-time without using extra-human efforts. This modern technology flagship shifts the grower’s interest towards using precision agricultural tools for solving problems and considering agriculture in the context of cyber-physical systems to support a better understanding and modeling of physical processes. However, the main goal of introducing precision technologies in traditional agriculture is (1) to support the decision-making process and (2) to incorporate green energy sources into smart agriculture farms. As for achieving these goals, the combined use of various modern technology tools (such as wireless sensors, Internet of Things, global positioning systems, remote sensing and other automation, and monitoring, controlling, and management information systems) is essential to implement with the traditional agriculture sector [36]. The PIS is grounded in various interdisciplinary theories and concepts that span environmental science, technology, and socio-economic policy. At their core, these systems utilize the principles of cyber-physical systems, where physical water infrastructure is monitored and controlled by computer-based algorithms, integrating the dynamics of the physical environment with software to achieve more efficient, reliable, and sustainable water management [37,38]. This technological innovation can be vital for advancing the water management sector, offering solutions to enhance WUE, monitoring, treatment, and equal water distribution among farmers. Thus, PIS leveraging technologies are at the forefront of transforming traditional water management approaches (see Figure 3). These technologies enable real-time monitoring of water systems, predictive analytics for demand and supply management, and efficient leak detection and water quality assessment, thereby improving the sustainability and resilience of water resources [39]. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 8 of 40 Figure 3. Working protocol (A) and flow chart (B) of precision irrigation water-saving system (flow chart (B) redrawn from [40]). Previously, several studies accounted for the possible advantages of PISs/SISs, i.e., Gabuya et al. [41] stated that compared to the manual irrigation method, SISs significantly saved water (19%) and improved growth rate and increased the number of leaves of coffee seedlings. Zeng et al. [42] proposed an SIS for rice crops. This study reported that using modern technology tools to manage available water resources efficiently has gained increasing attention among researchers. The proposed SIS combined the monitoring, control, and cloud-based systems to optimize the efficiency and decrease the grower’s workload.