00 per month and the total family income per month rose to Rs. 11,950.00 per month. Cost reduction Pro-tray nursery for Ginger cultivation With the intervention of Pro-tray nursery for Ginger cultivation, the cost on seed was brought down by Rs. 44000 per acre (earlier Rs.45000/acre) because of which an addition net income of Rs. 54,400 could be obtained with B:C ratio of 4.0 compared to 1.92 in the conventional method. Godavari zone: District: West Godavari (paddy, banana, sugarcane, chillies, coconut, maize, tobacco and Oil palm) Productivity Enhancement and cost reduction Direct sowing in paddy with drum seeder Paddy is the predominant crop grown in Matsyapuri village during kharif and rabi seasons. The preferred varieties of paddy were MTU- 7029 (Swarna) and MTU-1010. Due to poor release of canal water at critical stages i.e during panicle initiation stage to flowering stage, grain shattering due to low temperatures at the time of harvesting and heavy rains during threshing affected the paddy yield to an extent of 50 percent. Further the rabi sowings were also delayed forcing the farmers to forego the summer pulse cultivation which is the common practice in this area in the earlier times. During Rabi 2011-12 under NICRA, demonstrations on paddy direct sowing with drum seeder was taken up. The direct sown paddy matured 15 days earlier compared to manual transplanted crop facilitating to escape from the rains at the time of threshing. The yield was 15.4 percent more than transplanted paddy and the cost of cultivation was reduced by 6250 Rs/ha. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 18 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Crop diversification Tobacco farmer switches to horticulture Sri. Muppena Ramana Reddy, a tobacco farmer switched to cashew in his 4 acres of land located in Gopalapuram area of West Godavari district due to fluctuation in market prices and delays in payment. Cashew grafts of BPP- 8 and BPP-9 were planted along with adoption of irrigation, fertilizer application, and pest and disease management and pruning. Income from tobacco in Godavari area is about Rs. 1 lakh /ha/year (@2000 kg/ha yield) whereas the income from Cashew was 2.5 lakhs (3rd to 5th year) and additional income was obtained from intercrop of Maize during 1st two years. M. Ramana Reddy’s 4 ac garden motivated other farmers to switch to cashew in 500 ha area in surrounding villages. Value addition Millet processing – a group approach for livelihood Enhancement of tribal woman in West Godavari Training programmes on millet processing were conducted by KVK, Venkataramannagudem, Andhra Pradesh to tribal Self Help Groups (SHGs) under TSP. Two Self Help Groups viz., Girivanitha and Giriposhana were formed which established their own millet processing units with the financial assistance of ITDA. Both the groups supply approximately800kg (400 kg each) of millet products to schools every week and each group is earning an amount of Rs.