 The eddy covariance and Bowen ratio are valuable tools in environmental science for understanding and monitoring the interactions between the land surface and the atmosphere. These tools are important in managing natural resources and predicting environmental changes. (a) Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 19 of 40 (b) Figure 5. Climate/Weather data-based monitoring system. (a) Bowen ratio and (b) eddy covariance (EC) system (adopted from [144]). (b) Plant water-status indices-based monitoring system (PBMS) Non-destructive monitoring of plant water status is vital for precision irrigation practices [145]. Monitoring the real-time plant water status enables the precise control of the irrigation schedule, thereby preventing plant water stresses and losses (see Table 2). A direct relationship exists between plant biomass production and water consumption through transpiration [146,147]. Various standard techniques are used to know plant–water relations and to measure and understand plants’ water needs. These techniques include the relative water content method and pressure chamber to determine half-day or pre-dawn leaf or stem water potential. Moreover, substitute testing methods are used to calculate plant water requirements in real-world conditions. These substitute analysis methods encompass diurnal sap flow, relative growth rates, tissue expansion, and stomatal conductance measurements [20,148]. In addition, a study by Quemada et al. [146] reported that various passive (PSs) and active (ASs) sensors are employed to examine the real-time water status of the crops. The PS computes radiation and emission imitated by the tested point coming from a source diverse from the instrument or emitted by another point. However, sunlight is the most common radiation resource detected by this instrument. The typical PS comprises radiometers and spectrometers mounted on satellites and aircraft, sensor cameras, and portable spectrometers. In contrast, the AS illuminates the object with its electromagnetic radiation and then computes the radiation reflected, backscattered, or transmitted through it. Various plant-based water status monitoring ASs have been developed and evaluated to assess plant water status automatically. The most frequently used ASs included volumetric soil water content probes, scatterometers, radars, ZIM-probe, lasers, coaxial probes or portable dielectric probes, sap-flow rate and sap-flux density gauges, and some kinds of spectroscopy techniques. Figure 6 shows the plant-wearable sensor to monitor the online water transport status. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 20 of 40 Figure 6. Plant water-status indices-based monitoring system [147]. (c) Soil data-based monitoring system (SBMS) Soil water content is typically measured or estimated for on-farm irrigation water delivery [149]. According to Thompson et al. [150], the soil water content is predicated on the idea that plant water status and soil water content are correlated.