 The role of soil resource information systems highlighting how soil resource information can be integrated in land-use plans and policies to promote climate- resilient agriculture is the need of the hour. By leveraging advanced tools and data products, farmers in rainfed systems can improve soil health and water-use efficiency, mitigate land degradation, increase resilience to climate change, and ensure sustainable livelihoods. Keywords: Climate change, Digital soil mapping, Land use planning, Rainfed agriculture, Soil R AINFED agriculture, reliant on monsoon, covers about 52% of the net sown area in India. It contributes to a large share of food grain production (40%) and supports two-thirds of livestock. However, it suffers from low productivity, land degradation, and climate variability. The primary challenges include lack of targeted development, poor market linkages, yield variability, soil degradation, and climate risks. Technological advancements have largely bypassed rainfed regions, focusing more on irrigated zones and climate change or climate variability. Rainfed agriculture, with yields roughly half that of irrigated agriculture, has emerged as a cornerstone of food security for the Global South, notably in the semi-arid tropics (SAT) of India. Climate change during the last two decades, coupled with insufficient adaptation measures have increased the vulnerability of agricultural production systems, thereby posing challenges to food security in the SAT. Crop yields in the SAT of India was projected to decline during the 2050s due to changing climate conditions. The low productivity of rainfed crops in SAT is generally attributed to the changing/uneven rainfall distribution pattern across the growing season, which adversely affects other facets of sustainable agricultural production through soil fertility degradation and acute soil moisture stress. Worse-still, the lack of effective adaptation measures threatens the resilience of rainfed agriculture to climate change and compounds the adverse impacts of rainfall fluctuations on crop yields. With nearly 37% of its land area under semi-arid ecosystems, India is highly vulnerable to drought and other impacts of climate change. Therefore, effective climate adaptation measures in response to climate change impacts on the agricultural sector needs to be assigned the highest priority. The agriculture sector is grappling with production challenges, including land degradation, water scarcity, and the impacts of climate change. Agricultural production involves several interconnected and collaborative components—land resources, water resources, chemical fertilization, and climate—which are difficult to isolate from one another. Attempting to solve each problem separately, or focusing on any one specific problem, may not resolve the overall issue of sustainable crop production.