 It was proposed to provide good quality education, e-learning and distance learning system including Edusat and video conferencing facilities may be utilized and teams of competent teachers may be formed to provide interactive/non-interactive classes that may be suitable to SAUs and DUs. The point was appreciated. A committee was constituted comprising the following to identify the National Core Faculty for selected courses at first. Prof G Kalloo, VC, JNKVV, Jabalpur Dr, SS Chahal, VC, MPUAT, Udaipur Dr AP Singh, VC, DUVASU, Mathura Dr HS Gaur, Dean & JD (Edn.) IARI, New Delhi as Member Secretary [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.12: Special scholarship for best students IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. The issue has already been discussed earlier. Agenda 7.13: Moving or visiting faculties of SAUs/International exposure IGKV, Raipur presented the agenda. The issue has been addressed at the agenda 7.11 Agenda 7.14: Exposure of ICAR Institutes to the P.G. Students JAU, Junagadh presented the agenda. The same is absolutely covered under MOU, it was mentioned. Agenda 7.15: Fellowship for M. Sc. (Ag.) and Ph. D. students JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. It was decided that the committee constituted for agenda 7.1 may also take up this issue for all SAUs. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 7.16: Provision of funds to visit foreign and Indian institutes JNKVV, Jabalpur mentioned that the provision of separate funds may be made annually for exposure of KVK scientists to new and modern technologies/ avenues in agriculture by providing them an opportunity to participate in seminar/symposium / conference / agricultural fair/ visit in foreign and reputed Indian institutes. It was decided that the committee constituted for agenda 7.1 may also take up this issue for all SAUs. [Action: ADG (HRD)] 20 Agenda 7.17: Proposal for uniform systems of awarding division at Undergraduate/ Post Graduate levels for Agricultural Universities and standard OGPA for awarding Honors Certificate to UG/PG students JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. The internal committee constituted for the purpose is working it out. Agenda 7.18: Best Teacher Award Scheme KVAFSU, Bidar presented the agenda. It was pointed out that ICAR award money has already been raised. Prize money from the best academic institution can be considered and the balance may be taken from the ICAR. Framing of rules at university level for award is always encouraged. Agenda 7.19: Uniformity in academic regulations at Undergraduate level in SAUs GBPUAT, Pantnagar presented the agenda. The point has been addressed earlier. Agenda 7.20: Mobility of Scientists under Inter University Overseas Exchange Programme MAU, Parbhani presented the agenda. It was suggested that SAUs being with State Governments it is mandatory to take their permission to visit foreign universities. Agenda 7.21: Proposal to raise the stipend of B.V.Sc. & A.H. internee students MPPCVV, Jabapur presented the agenda.