 Strategy for Leadership Development The Council’s vision for transforming the employees of ICAR by developing a strategic human resource management system has led to the formulation of ICAR HRM Policy: Training and Capacity Building, taking a cue from National Training Policy 2012. The policy has been implemented successfully through imparting competency-based training for all cadres viz. scientific, technical, administrative (including finance and accounts), stenographer services and skilled supporting staffs based on Training Need Assessment (TNA)). The Council is committed to methodically implementing the Policy throughout all staff cadres in the NARES. Realizing the need for the development of leaders across the NARES ICAR initiated capacity building through a three-pronged approach by organizing a pre RMP training called Management Development Programs; Executive Development Programs for newly recruited RMPs and Senior EDP for experienced leaders of the Council which is fortified with international exposure. 5.2. Institutional Mechanism A Training Board, chaired by the ICAR’s DG, has been established to provide overall guidance for the execution of the HRM Policy. Other members of the board include Secretary, ICAR; three DDGs on rotation of three years; Director, NAARM, Joint Secretary (Training), DoPT and ADG (HRM) as Member Secretary. The HRM Unit of ICAR is the nodal agency for the coordination and implementation of this policy. An exclusive HRM Unit was created at the Council and HRD cell at the institute level and a dedicated team of HRD Nodal Officers have been put in place for capacity building activities. Training Management Information System (TMIS) is also in place. There are 40 Centers for Advanced Faculty Training operational under the Education Division of ICAR for enhancing the capabilities of teachers, researchers, and extension specialists in educational innovations, modern teaching and research methodologies, as well as serving as a repository of ideas and information in relevant disciplines. Apart from the agricultural Indian Agriculture after Independence 424 research service scientists of ICAR, NAARM is also actively engaged in nurturing academic leadership for Professors and University Officers of State Agricultural Universities. 6. Conclusion The leadership vision requires a balancing approach to eliminate the professional and personal biases from the system and make the organization contextually relevant at a given period and point of time. The agricultural research management and governance involves many decisions that have scientific, social and political consequences, which pose unique challenges to the leadership. Every country has established agricultural research priorities based on many complex factors that must be considered when decisions are made on the choice of research problems to be investigated.