 Cost wise, feeding of milk replacer for 8 weeks to be economical due to savings on the cost of milk replacer for 4 weeks, besides saving of labour associated with the preparation, feeding and cleaning involved in milk replacer feeding to lambs. It was evident that the dietary supplementation of rumen protected long chain fatty acids (LCFAs, 3–5% of DMI) enhanced the G-protein coupled receptor 40 (GPR40) of free fatty in the various segments of gastrointestinal tract of sheep. The chemosensing of LCFAs by GPR40 activated the signaling transduction pathways and increased the secretion of gut peptides particularly cholecystokinin that facilitated the fat digestion and absorption. Pig Feed: Economic yet nutritionally balanced vegetable waste/fruit waste based silages significantly improved feed conversion ratio and net protein utilization in crossbred grower pigs. Feed cost per kg gain was reduced by `9.00 at 10% supplementation of vegetable silage by replacing the whole concentrate. Similarly, feeding of the silage made of banana stem and maize fodder improved the growth performance in large White Yorkshire pigs. Poultry Microbiome: Microbiome of poultry, viz. Nicobari, Ghagus and Aseel, and a commercial broiler were studied. The amplicon sequencing results emphasized more similarity of the microbiota within the gut lumen of indigenous breeds as compared to the broiler strain. Further, existence of breed or line specific core microbial as well as across breed or line core microbiome was observed, besides the occurrence of beneficial and potentially opportunistic pathogenic microbes as part of the core microbiome. Zinc supplement: The Zn content of eggs could be increased by 20.7 to 28.9% in layer chicken by supplementing inorganic Zn and by 27.1 to 31% by organic Zn at 40 to 160 ppm of supplementation. Zinc oxide nano particles could be synthesized using moringa and neem leaf extract with average particle size of 10.84 and 8.27 nm, respectively. Alternatives to antibiotic growth promoter: Mannon oligosaccharide (MOS) (500 g/tonne) alone or in combination with two other prebiotics, i.e. fructose oligosaccharide (FOS) and galactose oligosaccharide (GOS) (330, 40 and 165 g/tonne, respectively) in antibiotic growth promoter (AGP)-free broiler diet yielded performance similar to that of AGP-fed broiler chicken. Feed conversion efficiency improved when GOS alone was fed @ 250 g/tonne. Furthermore, probiotic strains [B. amyloliquifaciencs, BA (100 g/tonne) and B. coagulans and B. pumilus in combination (100 g/tonne)] improved FCR, which was similar to the AGP-fed control group. Significantly improved performance, ready-to- cook yield and breast meat yield, and reduced Salmonella count in the gut were observed in broilers with bacteriophage supplementation in drinking water (0.02 ml/bird) on alternate days.