 The hands-on training included tank construction, micro-irrigation system installation, and the use of poly sheets. Farmers were actively involved in this initiative, and they shared the cost of site preparation and tank construction. Brick Lining of Polytanks: The use of brick lining for polytank technology was demonstrated at farmers’ fields for rainwater harvesting and spring water storage for irrigation, especially during lean periods. This approach increased water productivity per unit of area, benefiting vegetable production in hilly terraced regions. Kisan Diwas (Farmers’ Day) and Jal Shakti Abhiyan: Kisan Diwas was organized in the SCSP village of Uderkhani village of Bageshwar district, Uttarakhand on 23 December, 2022, involving the participation of 75 farmers. The event aimed to create awareness about the challenges faced by hill farmers and promote sustainable agriculture. Officials provided information on innovative farming techniques, market trends, and government schemes. An awareness programme under Jal Shakti Abhiyan was also conducted in the village of Uderkhani on 18 August, 2022. This programme focused on water conservation, water resource management, and rainwater harvesting to ensure water security and sustainability in hilly regions. ❑ RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 191 Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India in December 1973 to coordinate and promote agricultural research and education in the country. DARE provides necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organization for coordinating, guiding and managing research in areas including crop science, horticulture science, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, animal science, fisheries science, agricultural education and agricultural extension in the entire country. With 113 ICAR institutions and 74 agricultural universities spread across the country, this is one of the largest national agricultural research systems in the world. Apart from ICAR the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has other autonomous bodies, viz. Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board, the Central Agricultural Universities (CAUS) at Imphal (Manipur), Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh), and Pusa (Bihar); Agrlnnovate India Limited, New Delhi, under its administrative control. The Agrlnnovate India Limited (incorporated on 19 October 2011) aims to work on the strengths of DARE and ICAR and promotes, and spreads its research and development outcomes.