 On this occasion, IIVR and ISVS are publishing a special issue of Indian Horticulture highlighting the importance of vegetable technologies for alleviating hunger, malnutrition and improving health through intake of healthy vegetables. This will also serve as information source for academicians, researchers and the farming community. (Brahma Singh) President, ISVS (TK Behera) Secretary, ISVS & Director, ICAR-IIVR Indian Horticulture 4 T K Behera*, P M Singh, Jyoti Devi, Hiranmoy Das and Bhuvaneshwari S Vegetables for meeting Sustainable Development Goals The United Nations has set 17 Sustainable Development Goals for the year 2030. The vegetables and allied enterprises have an important role to play in achieving these goals. The ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi is putting in its effort to contribute in achieving these goals, particularly the goals of no poverty, zero hunger, good health and well-being and climate action through development of improved varieties, production and protection technologies, trainings and hand holding the farmers as well as their groups. Sustainable goals T he 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development involving 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) which were adopted by world leaders at a historic UN Summit officially came into force on 1 January, 2016. Though the time in hand to achieve these ambitious goals by 2030 is limited, yet the vegetables can play a very vital role in achieving many of these SDGs directly or indirectly. The available data indicates that nearly 86% farmers in India are small and marginal ones, which cultivate around 47% of total cultivable land accounting for more than half of the agricultural production. Interestingly, it is also a well-known fact that most of the vegetable growers in India belong to this small and marginal category and even after having such limited land holdings, the vegetable cultivation being a remunerative enterprise compared to others, helps them earn their livelihood from that small piece of land. Though India has achieved food security, much needs to be done to achieve nutritional security, and vegetables are a viable option for the purpose. The 17 SDGs are 1-No Poverty, 2-Zero Hunger, 3-Good Health and Well-being, 4-Quality Education, 5-Gender Equality, 6-Clean Water and Sanitation, 7-Affordable and Clean Energy, 8-Decent Work and Economic Growth, 9-Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure, 10-Reduced Inequality, 11-Sustainable Cities and Communities, 12-Responsible Consumption and Production, 13-Climate Action, 14-Life Below Water, 15-Life on Land, 16-Peace and Justice Strong Institutions, and 17-Partnerships to achieve the Goal. The vegetables vis-a-vis IIVR play a key role for SDGs 1, 2, and 3. For many other goals also, the vegetables play some role and the IIVR has been working for SDG 13 as well, by developing climate resilient technologies. The vegetables are capable of providing higher returns per unit area due to shorter life cycle and high productivity.