 In general, there is optimism towards the commercialization of biomass pyrolysis technology in India given that all these constraints are surmounted. The present study has attempted to find out the major features of biomass pyrolysis for hydrogen generation with a further possible application in the renewable energy sector in India. This review is a way to synthesize the present research available on technological breakthroughs, the economic potential of bio-oil, and its regulatory restrictions & challenges for biomass pyrolysis in India. The review assumes that biomass pyrolysis is an effective and feasible approach for producing hydrogen. This assumption relies on the thermochemical process used to convert biomass, which efficiently utilizes a range of feedstocks. It recognizes that India has distinct opportunities and constraints when employing biomass pyrolysis techniques. 2. Methodology This research deals with biomass pyrolysis as a method of hydrogen production in India's agriculture sector. A thorough investigation approach was implemented to gather literature from biomass to H2 production via the pyrolysis method. We searched it online from two different indexes, i.e., Scopus and Web of Science using a combination of search terms (biomass pyrolysis hydrogen production sustainable energy India). A techno-economic performance analysis takes into account some assumptions such as biomass availability, technical feasibility, economic viability, and governmental policies [19-21]. This research uses tools such as pyrolysis reactors, gas chromatography, and economic simulation algorithms. Laboratory studies are conducted with different pyrolysis procedures to find out the compatibility of different feedstocks [22]. Economic analysis deals with costs and potential revenues, and policy analysis focuses on incentives created by the government [23]. This review is based on the various requirements for hydrogen production from biomass pyrolysis in India. A significant amount of biomass products is anticipated from agricultural and forest waste nationwide. It has also been determined that the efficiency and performance of biomass pyrolysis using fast and microwave-assisted methods is sufficient for hydrogen production [24-26]. In addition, the economic value of biomass pyrolysis is influenced by many factors such as feedstock availability, cost risk, and hydrogen demand. The review also takes into account the existence of government policies and incentives that support sustainable efforts, especially for biomass hydrogen production [27,28]. This analysis investigated several approaches and materials to evaluate pyrolysis as a process of hydrogen generation from biomass in India. Fast and microwave-assisted forward development pyrolysis processes are examined. Gas chromatography is used to determine the syngas composition.