 (b) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Bye-law, the Governing Body shall have the power to relax the requirement of any Rule mentioned in (a) above of the Bye-law to such extent and subject to such conditions as may be considered necessary. 31. The Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules, and the Central Civil Services (Conduct) Rules, of the Government of India for the 46 ICAR Provident Fund Age of Retirement Appointment to Tenure posts time being in force shall apply so far as may be, to the employees of the Society subject to the modification that :- i) reference to the 'President' and 'Government Servants' in the Central Civil Services (Classification, Control and Appeal) Rules shall be construed as references to the 'President of the Society' and 'Officers and employees of the 'Society' respectively, and ii) reference to 'Government' and 'Government Servant' in the Central Civl Services Conduct Rules shall be construed as references to the 'Society' and 'Officers and employees of the Society' respectively. 32. (a) Employees of the Council covered by the Pension Scheme shall be required to subscribe to ICAR Provident Fund. (b) In the case of employees not covered by (a) above, they shall subscribe towards a Con- tributory Provident Fund which shall be regulated in accordance with the ICAR Con- tributory Provident Fund-cum-Gratuity Rules. 33. (a) The age of retirement of scientific and technical personnel in the service of the Council shall be 60 years. No extension of service shall be given but where absolutely essential in the interest of research, the Council may re-employ outstanding Scientists on suitable terms with the prior approval of the President. (b) Staff of other than those mentioned in (a) above, shall retire on attaining the age as prescribed by the Government of India for similar categories of staff from time to time. 34. The Governing Body may decide from time to time which posts in the ICAR shall be tenure posts. The period of tenure will, in the first instance, be 5 years which may be extended up to another 5 years. IV. SCHOLARSHIPS, FELLOWSHIPS, GRANTS-IN-AID, SPECIAL PROGRAMMES, RECOGNISED INSTITUTIONS, ETC. Power to institute fellowships, scholarships etc. 35. In order to carry out the objects of the Society as set forth In the Memorandum of Association, the Governing Body may institute Scholarships and •• (2) Approved by Government of India vide No. 4(l)/83-CDN-I dated 3.2.1983 and adopted by the Governing Body on 24.2.1983. 47 Conditions for grant of Restrictions for grant of Recognised Institutions 36. 37. 38. Technical and financial assistance to Fellowships, sponsor and finance deputations within the country and abroad, give grants-in-aid, employ emeritus Scientists, establish research schemes and projects and special Research Centres In Its own establishment or in Research Institutions, Universities, Technical and Technological Colleges and Industrial Establishments.