 Policy Brief 45, ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi, January. Ravallion M and Datt G (1996) How important to India’s poor is the sectoral composition of economic growth? World Bank Economic Review 10:1-25. RBI (2021) Handbook of statistics on Indian economy. Reserve Bank of India, Mumbai. Subash SP, Chand P, Pavithra S, Balaji SJ and Pal S (2017) Pesticide use in Indian agriculture: Trends, market structure and policy issues. Policy Brief 43, ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research, New Delhi. Thirtle C, Lin L and Piesse J (2003) The impact of research led agricultural productivity growth on poverty reduction in Africa, Asia and Latin America. World Development 33: 1959-1975. ***** Prime Minister Shri Atal Bihari Vajpayee speaking at the 85th session of Indian Science Congress at IARI, New Delhi 17 Chapter 407 407 Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India Ch Srinivasa Rao, P Krishnan, D Thammi Raju, Tavva Srinivas, Bharat S Sontakki and G Venkateshwarlu ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management, Hyderabad, Telangana Summary National Agricultural Research, Education and Extension System (NARES) evolved over years with the significant contribution of its visionary leaders. Today, NARES is confronted with reducing resources and scientific manpower and localization, impacting the national character of the organization and a scenario demanding solutions for complex problems. Such situation demands for strong and visionary leadership to effect the change both ‘structural and cyclical’ to make the organization relevant to the emerging challenges and contextual to the geo-political ecosystem. The journey of last 90 years of NARES has been full of reforms and innovations, the bulk of them happening post-independence. The Indianization of Imperial Council of Agricultural Research in 1929 was the first and foremost important reform that put the very basic foundation of the diversified organization in the form of Indian Council of Agricultural Research we have today. Since 1929, ICAR was subjected to periodical reviews and emerged stronger after every review due to the vision and stewardship provided by its leaders from time to time. Following the recommendations of Gajendragadkar Committee in 1972, DARE was created in 1973 to provide linkage with Government and line departments. The institutional mechanism of inter-institutional linkages was established following the creation of subject matter divisions after the recommendations of GVK Rao Committee, 1988; functional autonomy to the scientists following the Johl Committee’s recommendations in 1995; ICAR-industry interface and scientist-entrepreneur tie-up after Mashelkar Committee’s recommendations in 2005. Restructuring of ASRB, reforms in AICRPs, cadre review, and accreditations of SAUs were implemented after Peer Review Committee in 2017.