 Therefore, with and without matching, the number of treatment and control farmers is the same (53 treatment and 813 control). D. Varshney, P.K. Joshi, A. Kumar et al. World Development 160 (2022) 106067 7 farmers from capacity-building program villages who are likely to receive these programs’ beneﬁts from being in local village net- works or from any spillover of knowledge and information ﬂows. The treatment group comprises 19 such farmers. Control group comprises of farmers who reside in non-KVK villages, as non- beneﬁciary farmers belonging to capacity-building program vil- lages or frontline demonstration villages are likely to receive spil- lover of knowledge and information ﬂows. The control group comprises 573 such farmers (Appendix Table A2). Appendix Table A6, Panel A, presents the unmatched difference across groups and reveals signiﬁcant differences across groups in terms of caste, land size, asset, source of irrigation, and average village land size. Table 4, Panel A, presents the covariates after matching across treatment and control groups.24 The differences across treatment and control groups are insigniﬁcant: age, age squared, gender, edu- cation, household size, caste, source of income, asset index, house- hold head experience, soil color, and source of irrigation. The following speciﬁcation uses matching weights to obtain the matched difference-in-differences estimates: Yivdt ¼ a0 þ a1Timet þ a2 CBP P ð Þ ½ ivd þ a3ð½CBP P ð Þivd  TimetÞ þ Xdt þ eivdt ð2Þ Other notations remain the same as in Eq. (1). CBP (P) takes a value of 1 if the farmer is a primary beneﬁciary (but did not receive frontline demonstration beneﬁts) and 0 if the farmer resides in a non-KVK village. The coefﬁcient a3 is interpreted as the impact on primary beneﬁciaries of capacity-building programs, and cap- tures the effect of such programs only. 4.2.2. Identifying network beneﬁciaries The study follows a ‘‘network within sample” approach to cap- ture social networks, asking each farmer about his or her link to every other person in the sample (Chandrasekhar & Lewis, 2011). The basic intention is to identify network beneﬁciaries as those farmers who beneﬁted from having primary or secondary beneﬁ- ciaries of frontline demonstrations in their social network. Identi- fying network beneﬁciaries involves two steps. The ﬁrst step is to calculate the number of network members for each farmer who beneﬁted from such demonstrations, as measured by the following equation: SN A FLDi ¼ X 19 v¼1 ðSNiv  Aiv  FLDivÞ; ð3Þ where i denotes an individual farmer and v denotes the remaining surveyed farmers of the same village.25 SN takes a value of 1 if farmer i is socially connected with farmer v, and 0 otherwise.26 A takes a value of 1 if farmer i discusses and accepts agricultural advice from a socially connected farmer v, and 0 otherwise. FLD takes a value of 1 if farmer v is either a primary or secondary beneﬁciary of frontline demonstrations and 0 otherwise.