0 litre/ha in 375 litres of water as post emergence at 20-25 days after sowing. yy To obtain higher yield and improving soil health, practise green manuring or apply farm yard manure (FYM) or compost before maize planting. When more than 15 tonnes of good quality farmyard manure/ha have been applied to the maize crop year after year, omit the application of phosphorus, potassium, zinc and nitrogen recommended as basal dose. Farm yard manure can be substituted with paddy straw compost 4.5 q/ha along with recommended dose of fertilizers. Before sowing, inoculate the seed with 1.25 kg consortium bio-fertilizer with 2.5litres of water. Among the chemical fertilizers, apply 275 kg urea, 137.5 kg DAP and 50 kg MoP/ha to PMH 1, PMH 11, JC 12, Prabhat and Punjab Sweet Corn 1 and 187.5 kg urea, 67.5 kg DAP and 37.5 kg MoP/ha to PMH 2, Kesri and Pear Popcorn per ha. Apply potassium only if the soils are deficit in potash. When maize follows wheat, which had received the recommended dose of phosphorus, omit its application to maize. If 67.5 or 137.5 kg of DAP has been used, reduce the urea dose by 25 or 50 kg, respectively. Apply full dose of DAP and MoP and one third N at the time of sowing and one-third of nitrogen at the knee- high stage and the remaining one-third at the pre-tasselling stage. Adopt PAU-Leaf Colour Chart (PAU-LCC) for need based nitrogen application to maize. 22 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Zn deficiency generally appears in maize in Zn deficit soils. where Zn deficiency has been noticed during previous years, apply 25 kg of zinc sulphate heptahydrate (21%) or 16.25 kg zinc sulphate monohydrate (33%) per ha at sowing. If Zn deficiency appear in the standing crop in the field, apply same quantity of Zn by mixing with an equal quantity of dry soil along rows and mix in the soil. yy Pre-tasselling, silking and grain filling are the critical stages for irrigation. Ensure adequate water supply during these stages. Maize is very sensitive to water stagnation. In case of heavy rainfall, ensure drainage to avoid any stress to the crop. But if any damage occurs to the crop due to water stagnation, give two sprays of 3 % urea at weekly interval. If the damage is severe, apply 62.5-125 kg urea/ha after draining out the excess water. yy Control of fall armyworm: Regularly monitor the field to collect and destroy egg masses of fall armyworm from leaves. Egg masses are covered with hairs and are easily visible. Spray the crop with Coragen 18.5 SC (chlorantraniliprole) @ 0.4 ml per litre water or Delegate 11.7 SC (spinetoram) @ 0.5 ml per litre or Missile 5 SG (emamectin benzoate) @ 0.4 g per litre using 120 litres of water per acre, for crop up to 20 days old. Thereafter for older crop, the amount of water used per acre needs to be increased up to 200 litres with corresponding increase in dosage of above insecticides. For effective control, direct the nozzle towards the whorl.