 Kamod and sanakhadi are boiled and given to the animal to drink. The leaves of khapat tree are boiled in water and the filtered brew is given to the animal to drink. One or two seeds of chanothi Singh and Khan (1999) 273 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference and sweetmeat prepared from a mixture of bajra, jaggery, oil, suvadana and ajmo seeds are given to the animal to eat. The fruits of umri are pounded to a fine powder, boiled in water and given to the animal to drink. After the animal has consumed all these items, the placenta emerges a bit. An old leather shoe is tied to it to pull the rest out (Junagadh, Gujarat). 534 Treatment of new borne calf which has eaten placenta The seed paste of nerunji, a prostrate herb (Trivulus terrestris) is given orally to new borne calves to facilitate removal of the placenta. After swallowing the paste, the calf will start vomiting (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 535 Treatment for removal of placenta Paddy husk is fed to the animal for early removal of placenta after parturition (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 536 Aiding expulsion of placenta The expulsion of placenta after delivery does not occur in some cows. The reason for this could be lack of minerals and vitamins in their diet. Besides this, Brucella or IBR viral infection could also lead to non-expulsion of the placenta. This causes anorexia. The leaves of sugarcane is used for the expulsion of placenta. Approximately one litre of sugarcane leaf juice is extracted. It is strained and fed to the cattle. The expulsion of placenta occurs within 2-3 hrs (Dahod, Gujarat). Ninama (1999) 537 Treatment for retention of placenta For easy expulsion of placenta after delivery approximately two kg pearl millet (Pennisetum americanum) grains, 100 g of methi (Trigonella foenum- graceum) seeds, 50 g of asalio (Lepidium sativum), 25 g of suva (Anethum graveolens) and 500 g of jaggery are boiled in water for one hour. The cooked feed (after cooling) is fed to cow or buffalo after delivery. The placenta expels out within 2-3 hrs after this treatment (Junagadh, Gujarat). Vaghasiya (2000-2001) 538 Post-calving care Immediately after calving, the cow sits down to recoup herself. The chances of milk fever is high if excessive colostrum is withdrawn. To prevent it, chalk dust (lime) is fed to the animal along with other feed (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Damor (1994) 274 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 539 Post-calving care Jaggery 1-2 kg is dissolved in the water and given to the animal immediately after calving. Sometimes this is continued for one week or more. This is practiced by most farmers in Gujarat to hasten post-calving recovery. Reportedly it also increases the animal’s milk production (Baroda, Gujarat).