 In addition, UPO 94 (capsularis) and TJ 40 (olitorius) from the Jute Research Station, Baharaich and Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Trombay, have been released through the AlHndia Coordinated Research Project on Jute and Allied Fibres. Mesta AMC 108 (cannabinus) and AS OP-3 (sabdariffa) developed at Mesta Research Station, Amadalavalasa, are also in cultivation. IN FUTURE... Value-added products from jute — fine yarn, blended yarn, speciality fabric and non-woven jute waste materials— are gaining acceptance. Raw jute requirement by AD 2000 is expected to be 10.5 million bales. Therefore, @ development of still higher-yielding varieties will be one approach, improvement in retting practices the other. Over dependence on select crops must stop. Instead, alternative crop plants more familiar with habitats, less demanding on natural resources and inputs — commodities becoming scarcer each passing day — must find use. To identify the more suitable alternatives, the ICAR has begun research on the under-utilized and under-exploited plants nation-wide in 1984. Currently, 22 centres located in different agro-ecological zones are operating. The programme embraces on potential indigenous and exotic crops of food, fodder, energy and industrial value. More than 7,100 accessions of select under- utilized crops have been built up over years. Headway in acquisition of germplasm evaluation, documentation, utilization, conservation, varietal development and standardization of cultivation practices has been made. Select examples are: AMARANTH sp. A grain, vegetable and fodder crop, the amaranth has high protein with high Standardization of agrotechniques in Amaranth Amaranth hypochondrian x A. tricolor Amaranth intercropped with maize, Shimla Rice-bean RBL 1 for cultivation in Punjab 2 | bi Wo + Amaranth ANNAPURNA yields 1.8-2.5 tonnes/ha lysine content, a good balance of essential amino acids and a very wide adaptability. Amaranth ANNAPURNA and ORA 8801 have been released for the hills and GA 1 and SUVARNA for the plains. They yield 1.8-2.5 tonnes/ha. FAGOPYRUM sp. Apart from edible value as grain and vegetable, Fagopyrum has medicinal importance because of the presence of a glucoside “rutin”. It is suitable for Cultivation in the Himalayan region and the south Indian hills. Itis amenable to poor and acidic soils. The buckwheat HIMPRIYA has been released for higher altitudes, and VL 7 for the mid-hills of Uttar Pradesh. They yield 1.0-1.5 tonnes/ha. VIGNA UMBELLATA The rice-bean can be grown in the hills where moongbean and urdbean fail to grow. The crop has a fair degree of resistance to the foliar diseases. It is edible. It is also useful as a green manure and cover crop. Rice-bean adapts well in the humid sub-tropical and warmer climates. Rice-bean RBL 1 is cultivated in Punjab, RBL 6 in the north-east and north-west and PRR 8801 in the north-west hills.