 The phenology module is calibrated, validated and evaluated for its simulation efficiency in farmers’ fields. The phenology module is integrated into the web- based DSS. The phenology forecaster module is enabled. This DSS is available to farmers for use and validation. Variation in status and localization of micronutrients in food crops: Micronutrient efficient and inefficient cultivars of rice, wheat, maize, pigeon pea and chickpea were identified using micronutrient yield and uptake efficiency indices. The efficient cultivars could be grown in micronutrient deficient soils without affecting the yield level. Micronutrient localization studies showed deposition of iron (Fe) and zinc (Zn) in the epidermis of chickpea, and apical cortical regions of pigeon pea stems. In wheat, Zn concentration was more in the aleurone layer and seed embryo. The manganese (Mn) application influenced the vessel size of vascular bundle and enhanced its translocation to the grain. Higher rate of basal dressing of Zn during first year had significant residual effect in second year in terms of grain yield and Zn concentration in wheat; accumulation of Zn in grain occurred mostly through remobilization from vegetative part. However, the contribution from different vegetative parts to grain Zn varied with cultivars. The rhizobium isolate R-16 (Rhizobium pusense) augmented more Fe whereas rhizobium isolate R-19 is more useful for Zn enhancement in the pigeon pea seeds. Quality and resilience of soils in diverse agro-ecosystems: Key indicators of soil quality and health were identified for specific locations in the four agro-ecological sub-regions (AESF3) viz., AESR 4.1, AESR 7.2, AESR 10.1 and AESR 15.1 covering the states of Punjab. Andhra Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. Relative soil quality index (RSQI) was developed based on the 15 known indicators (3 physical, 2 biological and 10 chemical indicators) with assigned weights and marks. On the basis of RSQI values, the soils were classified as poor (value of < 50%), medium (value of 50–70%) and good (value of >70%) quality soils. The soil quality assessment based on RSQI values showed good relationship with crop productivity potential. The SQIC software was developed to calculate the soil quality index. A total of 1,270 soil health cards (SHCs) were distributed to farmers in the four AESRs. Georeferenced soil information system: The development of SOTER database led to revised Agro-ecological sub-region (AESR) boundaries. With the new data sets, actual available soil water was calculated after the cessation of the rains, and used in revising the length of growing period (LGP) assessment and refining the LGP maps. Similarly, the calculation of hydraulic conductivity (HC) through real time datasets along with those generated through pseudo transfer function (PTF) helped in refining the earlier drainage map.