 The conservation tillage practices combined with crop residue retention on soil surface increases moisture infiltration, reduces erosion, increases water use efficiency and forms more stable soil aggregate structure. Conservation agriculture advanced the sowing date and resulted in proper placement of seed, early emergence and availability of higher nutrient and moisture content which helped the crop to compete with the crop sown under conventional tillage. Cultivation of maize and wheat crop in permanent narrow bed gave 20.33% and 18.0% higher grain yield of maize (6275 kg/ha) and wheat (5371 kg/ha) respectively than maize (5215 kg/ha) and wheat (4404 kg/ha) yield under conventional tillage. B:C ratio in permanent narrow bed conservation agriculture was 2.19 as compared to 1.44 in conventional tillage. Conservation agriculture in maize-wheat cropping system 249 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 13 Karnataka Karnataka is an agrarian economy and overall development of the State is mainly depending on the growth and development of agriculture and allied sectors. A large tracts of the state practice rainfed agriculture and hence the state is a victim of frequent droughts in the recent past. There is a wide-spread concern about distress in agriculture and falling incomes of farmers. There is also an unequivocal support for the cause of improving the livelihood conditions of farmers by enabling the farm families to earn a decent livelihood. Karnataka State falls in Zone X (Southern Plateau and Hilly region) and Zone XII (West Coast Plains and Ghat region) as per the Agro-Climatic Regional Planning. The State is divided into 10 Agro-Climatic Zones and has six major soil types. Due to its varied agro climate, almost all cereals, pulses, oilseeds and commercial crops (fruits, vegetables, spices etc) are cultivated in different parts of the State. Total geographical area of Karnataka is 190.50 lakh ha, out of which 122.47 lakh ha is total cropped area. Cropping intensity of the state is 121.93%. Around 16.% of the area was covered under forests, 6.67% area was under non-agricultural uses, 4.13% land was barren and uncultivable land and 2.15% land was cultivable waste. Permanent pastures, grazing land and miscellaneous tree crops constituted 6.20% of the total geographical area. About 11% of the total area falls under current fallow and other fallow land. 13.1 Productivity Gaps And Major Constraints India’s farm yields are much lower as compared to other developing countries. Per hectare rice production in India is 3.6 tonnes compared to 6.7 tonnes in China, 5.1 tonnes in Indonesia and 5.6 tonnes in Vietnam. Similarly, per capita wheat production in India is 3.1 tonnes compared to 5.0 tonnes per hectare in China. Similarly, it was observed from the results of FLD’s data with improved production technologies that there exists a wide yield gap under real farm situations across crops in Karnataka.