 Apart from this, current gene editing technologies such as CRISPR/Cas can also be employed to modify or target candidate genes (Glucanase and Chitinase). CONCLUSION The green revolution has paved the way for the popularisation of high nitrogen-responsive semi- dwarf rice varieties which are increasingly susceptible to sheath blight of rice. Sheath blight has threatened rice production globally and may continue to be a menace. The management of this disease using resistant variety is definitely the most viable and sustainable approach but suffers from the following bottlenecks: • Identification of virulence gene in R. solani remains unsuccessful till date thus making it difficult to understand the behaviour of pathogen. • None of dominant resistance genes or loci have yet been discovered, cloned, characterized, and analysed. • Sheath blight QTL are found to be positively correlated to plant height and days to heading thus creates severe linkage drag. • No major QTL with very high phenotypic variance has not been detected. • Broad host range and unavailability of identified germplasm with an adequate level of resistance. However, a better understanding of the molecular mechanism of pathogenesis and defence mechanisms in the pathogen and host will help fasten the strategies for the development of resistance breeding. Moreover, an alternative and precise sheath blight scoring system independent of plant height is needed to avoid complexities. Future research needs to be focussed on the identification of the virulence gene. CRISPR-mediated genome- editing, and associated technologies to identify, study, and validate, the virulence gene can be potentially useful. Further, to utilize omics technologies, standardization of transformation technique of the pathogen needs to be in place. The breeding program focused on marker-assisted introgression of QTLs into popular cultivars coupled with the pyramiding of transgene(s) and multiple biotic and abiotic stress-tolerant genes will be helpful. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: nitishranjan240@gmail.com Table 3. List of rice lines with sheath blight QTLs transferred through marker assisted breeding strategy to confer tolerance to rice sheath blight (Modified from Senapati et al. 2022) Recipient parent Donor parent QTL introgressed ZD88, WLJ1 IL55, IR24, Lemont Sheath Blight (qSB9TQ), Tiller angle (TAC1TQ) Pusa Basmati 1 Tetep Sheath Blight (qSBR11-1), Blast (Pi-54) CO51 Tetep qSBR11-1, Pi-54 ASD 16 and ADT 43 Tetep and IRBB60 Bacterial leaf blight (xa5 + xa13 + Xa21), Blast (Pi54) and sheath blight (qSBR7-1 + qSBR11-1 + qSBR11-2) CB14004 and CB14002 Tetep Sheath Blight (qSBR11-1) Fig. 5. A schematic representation about various classes of genes which can be a potential target for editing for development of sheath blight resistant varieties.