 The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro- irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. (Volume I) Indian Horticulture 26 Nutritional profiling of Indian potato cultivars Food security in broader way may be realized when all people at all the times have access to sufficient, safe, nutritious food to maintain a healthy and active life. Food security depends on availability of food, affordability and proper utilization of food. Potato (Solanum tuberosum) locally called as ‘aloo’ is one such candidate that can solve the problem of food security as well as malnutrition. Potato was accepted as a primary vegetable supplement because of its mild flavour and its utilization in combination with other foods. Nutritional value of potato was known since long, specially its high content of ascorbic acid to prevent scurvy. One of the prominent publications of the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO 2008) has emphatically considered and recommended potato as a potential crop for the poorest of the poor, to ensure global food, nutritional and income security in future. Pinky Raigond, Brajesh Singh, Som Dutt, Sushil S Changan, Milan Kumar Lal and Dharmendra Chaudhary Food Security Food Security Food Security Food Security Food Security Potato: Ray of hope and wholesome food Potatoes yield more edible energy, protein and dry matter per unit area and time compared to other crops due to its high protein-calorie ratio (17 g protein: 1,000 kcal) and short life cycle. Serious food security problem will appear in future due to stagnation of crop yields, exhausting soils and increasing population in the country. In such a scenario, potato provides a ray of hope due to its highest per hectare, per day production of edible dry matter and vital nutrients. Due to its versatility in way of cooking, viz. boiling, baking, deep frying etc. potato became popular over the period of time and is being consumed by one and all. In India, potatoes have been utilized largely for consumption as fresh potatoes and the major part of potato harvest (approximately 68.5%) goes to domestic table consumption. The nutritional value of potato is well acclaimed and is known as a versatile, carbohydrate-rich and low-fat food.