 The branches are bent towards outer periphery to open the centre and allow penetration of sunlight. After 25 to 30 days, new shoots emerge from the bent portion, which bear profuse flowers. This practice results in 39% increase in flowering in early summer and 28% increase in late autumn. Off- season flowering fetches Rs 590 to Rs 600/plant, instead of Rs. 150 to Rs. 180/plant in the normal season. 20 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Name and address of the discloser Dr Dipankar Saha, Training Organiser, Ramkrishna Ashram KVK, Nimpith Ashram, South 24-paraganas, West Bengal 743 338. Location of the use of the ITK Twenty six villages in 4 blocks: block Baripur-I and Baripur II, Joynagar-I and Jaynagar-II, South 24 parganas (West Bengal). Experimenters Dr. Bikas Ghosh, Professor, Department of Orchard Management, Faculty of Horticulture, and Dr. Premasis Sukul, Professor, Department of Agricultural Bio- Chemistry, Faculty of Agriculture, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Viswavidyalaya (BCKV), Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal). Results and discussion The ITK techniques were tested during autumn 2003. The result of the investigation showed that bending of branch has a profound effect on morphological changes and fruit yield during the course of investigation. Effect was seen in different plant morphological and fruit yield attributing characters of the plant and bio-chemical estimation of shoot, bark and mature fruits like early emergence of new shootlets during autumn season, increasing the number of new shootlets per branch, early initiation of flowering, earliness in fruit setting was observed during summer season than autumn season, fast vegetative growth, more number of flowers/shootlet, more number of fruits/shootlet at fruit set stage, more number of fruits/plant at harvesting stage, etc. Conclusion Now-a-days a tendency of bending and pruning of guava shoots has been extensively practised among the farmers. This not only enhances the production but also increases the availability of the fruit throughout the year. It was concluded that summer bending of branches produced early emergence of more number of shootlets/branch, which caused flowering and fruit set in them. But the number of reproductive shoots/ branch and fruit set is reduced during summer bending compared with autumn season of bending, which proved superior in respect of production with quality fruits. This ITK is remunerative and cost effective, as the rainy season crop was sold @ Rs. 1.80 to 2.0/kg fruits, whereas production during November-January fetched Rs. 12-15/kg fruit and the fruits during February-May fetched Rs. 10-12/kg fruit from the farmers’ fields. Guava is now available almost all the year round due to this innovative technique. Increased number of fruits/branch at set stage Increased number of fruits/branch at harvest 21 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture Pingali dhanti 6. FARM IMPLEMENTS 6.