 These largely sector include seed and input companies, distributors and agro-dealers, service providers, food processors and retailers, and the content providers for agro-advisories. The legal commitments under contract farming does include among other, the technical backstopping and quality inputs and thus important vehicle for agricultural extension. There are an estimated 2,82,000 input dealers in India which help communities in rural or semi-rural areas and have interest in offering quality services to their farmer clients (Ferroni and Zhou 2011). Several of private companies like Mahindra & Mahindra, ITC, DCM Shriram Ltd, TATA Kisan Sansar, Rallis, etc. have their own extension wings to reach out to farmers, primarily for the promotion of their products. The TATA Chemicals’ Kisan Sansar (TKS) launched in 2002, has made an innovative contribution in developing the rural scenario by providing technology, information, and crop advisory services to empower the farmers along with agricultural inputs. It operates on the model of ‘hub and spoke”. Presently, 32 hubs cater to 681 spokes covering around 22,000 villages and approximately 3.5 million farmers. These TKS are spread across 88 districts in 7 northern and eastern States in India. Over 300 TKS spokes are running successfully in Uttar Pradesh alone (Mukherjee 2011). As the interest for a particular brand always prevail amongst the dealers of a particular company, the conflict of interest and push factor for the product irrespective of farmers’ needs is the major drawback of this system. The contradictory messaging by many agencies driven by self-interest may also create confusion to the farmers. 5. Innovations in agricultural extension With the gradual change in the context of technology application at farmers’ fields, a number of new concepts and models research and extension are being evolved. The important innovations are discussed below. Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 345 5.1. Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) This innovation is the prime mover for addressing the structural problem of land fragmentation and prevalence of unviable small and marginal farm households in India. This concept safely adopts the ‘aggregation of produce’ over pooling of land or compromise on physical boundary of the farmers’ piece of land. These organizations by virtue of backward aggregation (bulk purchase of inputs for 1000 or more farmers of FPOs) and forward aggregation of output or marketing ensure the much-needed bargaining edge to farmers with input dealers for reduced cost and with the big players in the market for remunerative price of their produce. The cooperative principle underlying the FPOs makes them democratic thus overcoming tyranny of big farmers. The Producer Organizations (PO) of primary producers viz. farmers, milk producers, fishermen, weavers, rural artisans, craftsmen are also forming producer companies, provide sharing of profits/benefits among the members.