; Forward trading and futures market; Marketing of agricultural inputs; Rural marketing; role of private sector in input and output marketing; contract farming. Product management, pricing, communication, distribution and marketing information system. 121 International Marketing: Meaning, nature and importance; An overview of the International marketing management process and environment. International Marketing Segmentation, targeting and Positioning: Screening and selection of markets; International marketing entry strategies: Export- licensing, contract manufacturing, joint venture, setting up of wholly owned subsidiaries abroad. International Product and Pricing Strategies: Product standardization vs. adaptation; International trade product life cycle, Factors affecting International price determination; Managing International Distribution and Distribution channel strategy. International promotion strategies: communications across countries, international promotion mix-advertising, personal selling, publicity and sales promotion; Standardization vs. adaptation issue. International marketing planning, organizing and control; ecological concerns and international marketing ethics. Key concepts in agri-export, procedures for export planning; analysis of export markets, tools and techniques; for optimizing the export functions. Unit 4: Production, Operations and Quality Management Operations management of an agro-industrial unit including operations system and processes; productivity of operations; work force productivity; facilities management; operations planning and control; material and supply chain management; quality management. Importance of quality in the globalized market place, significance of managing quality in manager's total field of concerns, An introduction to Agmark, BIS, ISI and FPO. GMP/G (good manufacturing and hygienic practices), TQC/TQM (total quality control and total quality management), SQC (Statistical Quality Control), product quality monitoring, HACCP (hazard analysis and critical control points), Codex alimentarius (international quality standards), ISO-9000- standards and certification. Food standards, legislation and internal auditing. Entrepreneurship for Small Scale Enterprises (SSE); Entrepreneurial Competencies; Institutional Interface. Establishing Small Scale Enterprises: Opportunities Scanning-Choice of Enterprise; Market Assessment for SSE; Choice of Technology and Selection of Site. Small Scale Enterprises-Getting organized: Financing the New/Small enterprises; preparation of the business plan; ownership structure and organizational framework. Financial management issues in SSE; Operations management issues in SSE; Marketing management issues in SSE; Organizational relations in SSE. Management Performance assessment and control; Strategies for stabilization and growth; Managing family enterprises.