 Fennel also has medicinal properties. It is used for digestion, also to treat constipation, diarrhea, throat pain, headache etc. All soils rich in organic matter are suitable for cultivation but best result in well drained sandy loam to loamy soils. PH of soil should be in range of 6.5 to 8. Sowing in second fortnight of October. To ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 166 obtain good yield avoid delay in sowing. 4 kg seed require for one-acre land. Varieties are RF-35, RF-101, Gujrat Fennel-1, Azad sounf-1. Apply well decomposed FYM @10-12qtl/acre in soil at time of land preparation. Apply Nitrogen@20kg/acre in form of Urea@45kg/ acre in two to three equal splits. First nitrogen application is as basal dose, apply remaining dose of Nitrogen 30 and 60 days after sowing. Aphid: If infestation of Aphid is observed, to controlled spray Dimethoate 30EC@2ml per litre of water or Methyl demeton 25EC@2ml per litre of water. Powdery Mildew: If infestation is observed, spray wettable Sulphur@2gm/ltr of water. Value addition of vegetables and fruits for nutritional security and income generation Food has been considered as the major factor in maintaining well-being and health of individuals. Active ingredients in food, which are effective in promoting human health, include amino acids, fats dietary fiber, antioxidants, pigments, vitamins, and minerals which are present in different food groups such as pulses, cereals, legumes, oilseeds, fruits, and vegetables. Among all these food groups, fruits and vegetables play a significant role in human nutrition, especially as a source of vitamins, minerals and dietary fiber. The different fruits and vegetables like carrots, tomatoes potatoes, ginger, green leafy vegetables, and the like are important protective foods, because of their nutritional value and antioxidant properties. Value addition of such fruits and vegetables by formulation of different value-added products are an important source of nutritional security. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 167 Tomato Tomatoes are one of the most popular protective foods, because of its lycopene content, outstanding nutritive value, antioxidant properties and a powerhouse of medicinal properties. It is a rich source of minerals like calcium, magnesium, phosphorous, iron, sodium, potassium, and vitamins especially A and C. Tomatoes are consumed mainly as a raw staple food, as an ingredient in different types of food products and in the form of processed products such as powder, tomato juice, paste, puree, sauce, etc. This horticultural crop is an excellent source of health promoting compounds, being a balanced mixture of minerals and antioxidant vitamins including vitamin C and E, as well as rich in lycopene, beta carotene, thiamine, riboflavin, niacin, lutein, and flavonoids such as quercetin.