 India is also credited with the highest productivity of grapes in the world. Commercial viticulture has been practiced in India for almost the last six decades and it is now regarded as one of the most profitable horticulture ventures. Though most of the commercial viticulture (85% area) takes place in the tropical region (Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, and Tamil Nadu), sub-tropical viticulture is practiced in the states of Punjab, Haryana, western Uttar Pradesh, and a small portion of Delhi, which can produce grapes during June. However, uneven ripening of grape berries is a significant constraint in these semi-arid subtropical regions of North India. To overcome this problem, the application of plant bioregulators can serve as a viable alternative in the short term. Plant Bioregulators Plant bioregulators are synthetic compounds that regulate plant growth and development through their exogenous application. Plant bioregulators can regulate several growth and developmental stages in plants, and the invention of their roles has been considered an important landmark in horticultural research. In commercial grape production, plant bioregulators play a significant role in many aspects, such as berry thinning and development, production of seedless berries, development of uniformly coloured berries, etc. Plant bioregulators such as abscisic acid (ABA), ethylene, pro-hexadione calcium, and benzothiadiazole are showing promising results in enhancing the grape berry colour. Abscisic acid and ethylene play a key role in fruit development and ripening in grape. Both are recognized as important hormones triggering ripening and colour development in ripening grape berries. Ethylene is a gaseous compound that has wide-ranging functions in fruit crops. Firstly, ethylene is involved in most development steps of the plant life cycle, including seed germination, flowering, fruit ripening, abscission, and senescence. Many coloured grape varieties such as Crimson Seedless, Kyoho, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Merlot respond well to the exogenous treatment with ethylene and abscisic acid resulting in enhanced berry colour and more uniform ripening. In addition to the improvement in berry colour, these plant bioregulators also enhance other grape berry quality characteristics such as berry size, total soluble solids, berry phenolics and flavonoids, ascorbic acid content, and antioxidant activity. Thus, incorporating these bioregulators in viticulture to improve berry colour may also lead to the production of grape berries with increased bioactive compounds, thereby fetching more market prices. Among the other new generation plant bioregulators, the pre-harvest treatments with benzothiadiazole (BTH) have doubled the anthocyanins concentration in some coloured grape cultivars such as ‘Merlot’ and also shown that treatments with benzothiadiazole can trigger the systemic acquired resistance in plants which in turn promotes disease resistance.