 Their organoleptic acceptability in respect of taste, flavour or aroma, colour or appearance and overall acceptability was judged by a panel of 10 judges from tribal community using 9–point Hedonic Rating Scale. METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in village Jojohatu, block Kuchai, dist. Saraikela (Jharkhand). PRA and field study Field study was conducted through PRA tools with 20 respondents. The parameters studied were: medicinal properties, nutritional value, deliciousness, availability and effectiveness for increasing vision. Experiment The field experimentation was conducted in 10 replications through the organoleptic evaluation method. Two types of curry were Code : 1744 Title of the ITK : Use of big snail as ethnic food Description of the ITK : Villagers of Jojohatk of the Saraikela Khaisawan district in Jharkhand use snail for making curry. Snails are fried with mustard oil and salt is added in it for taste. This dried vegetable is useful for increasing the eye sight for longer period in human beings. All the farmers of the village use this age old practice. This ethnic food provides protein and other minerals and vitamins, which the poor people (90%) cannot afford and they get it at no cost or very low cost through gathering or collecting it from rice fields during rainy season. Name and address of the discloser:Ms Geeta Kumari, C/o Shri K.N. Singh, Munda (Tatanagar), East Singhbhum (Jharkhand) 833 201 Location of use of the ITK : The study was conducted in village Jojohatu, Kuchai block, Saraikela district of Jharkhand Experimenters : Dr (Ms) N.Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education , Dr B. K. Roy , Associate Professor, Pharmacology and Toxicology and, Dr A. P Singh, Head, Department of Animal Nutrition , Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessing the properties of big snail and small snail as ethnic food Parameter/factor Mean score Medicinal properties 8.4 Nutritional value 7.8 Deliciousness 8.1 Availability 7.2 Effectiveness in increasing vision 7.5  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Fig. 1. Flat snail used as an ethnic food Table 2. Sensory evaluation of big and small snail as ethnic food Product Colour Flavour/aroma Taste Overall acceptability Curry of small black snail 9 7 7 7.6 Curry of big snail 6 6 7 6.3 Table 3. Chemical composition of big/flat snail flesh (dry weight basis) Moisture (%) Crude protein (%) Total ash Fat (%) Crude fibre (%) Calcium(mg/kg) 46.3 42.35 22.23 15.36 0 5.98 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 show that the reported ITK was rated highly effective for all the parameters taken into consideration. Experiment The mean scores for organoleptic characteristics of ethnic food are given in Table 2. It is evident that except taste and flavour or aroma, other characteristics of curry of big snail were rated high.