 Verma (1998) 12 Storage structure for paddy Bamboo grain storage structure plastered with cowdung slurry covered with a layer of paddy straw and a layer of dried leaves of ‘lakke’ at the bottom when used to store paddy reduces storage pest attack and prolongs storage life owing to disinfectant properties of cowdung and lakke (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 13 Storage pest control by neem and Eucalyptus leaves Mixing neem and eucalyptus leaves to foodgrains controls storage pests. Neem and eucalyptus act as insect repellents and antifecdants and as insect repellents and antifecdants and oviposition deterrants (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 14 Grain storage by neem products The pesticides of neem leaf control many types of harmful insects. These are used for grain storage and preparing ointment for skin diseases. The four most active ingredients are azadiractin, salannin, melian-triol and nimbin. (Lowlands North of New Delhi). Puffer (1994) 150 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 15 Use of leaves of Clerodendron phlomides for preserving grains Leaves of 'arni’ (Clerodendrum phlomides)is used for preserving grains.The leaves of Clerodendrum phlomides are crushed to prepare its extract which is bitter in taste. Five hundred ml of the extract is mixed with 40 kg of grains to be preserved. The grains are dried and filled in big earthen pots. Clerodendrum phlomides is found in hilly areas. Satanabhai says that many farmers in his area used the extract for preserving grains (Panchmahal, Gujarat). Charpot (1998) 16 Biogass slurry for storage pest control in paddy Paddy seed bags are soaked in water and diluted biogass slurry to induce vigorous growth due to hormonal effect and thereby, seedling resistance to pests and disease is increased (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 17 Grain storage by using leaves of neem, ‘notchi’ and pongam Leaves of ‘notchi’, neem and ‘pongam’ (Pongamia pinnata) are collected and put into the storage box or room along with the grains to protect them from pests and diseases. The leaves can be changed regularly for better results. In another method, dried leaves of notchi, neem and pongam are put in a mud pot along with some dried chillies. These are then burnt and kept inside the storage room. The process is repeated every week depending upon the intensity of pest attack (Pondicherry). Babu (2000-2001) 18 Walnut and sweetflag leaves against pests in stored grains In rural areas of Himachal Pradesh, a layer of leaves of walnut is spread over grain stored in gunny bags. Likewise shade dried leaves of sweetflag are powdered and put over grain stored in gunny bags to protect it from damage due to stored grains pests. Walnut leaves are astrigents and the aqueous extracts have bactericidal action while, mature leaves contain 9-11 per cent tannin which are antifeeding agents.