 ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute being the premier Research and Development organization on potato is facilitating the state governments in identification of potato export clusters. Keeping the overall requirement of promoting potato export and the level of preparedness of the country for the same we recently undertook an exercise to analyse the strength, weakness, opportunity, and threats for activity and the same is briefly presented below. Strengths Diverse agro-climatic conditions and seasonal advantage: About 90% of the Indian potatoes are produced in winters, when no fresh potatoes are available in northern hemisphere. Besides, due to diverse agro- climatic conditions available at different places, India can produce potatoes for all purposes throughout the year. Strong R&D infrastructure support: Potato research and development is backed by ICAR-CPRI and team of regional level scientists through AICRP network, who can be used effectively for the betterment of the potato industry. Strong seed production programme: The country has a well-established national seed production programme for producing disease free seed of potato varieties. Besides, Packaging Heap storage Diffused light store November–December 2019 69 Hi-tech seed production and Aeroponics have further added to this advantage. Surplus production: Due to development of improved varieties and technologies, the potato production is touching 52 million tonnes in the country and this huge production is not readily absorbed in the country. The surplus can be easily exported at low prices. Ease of organic production: Still being a developing country, use of chemicals at several regions especially hilly areas, is minimal. This can serve as a strength for organic potato production in several pockets of the country, which may capture the organic market of the globe. Weaknesses Inadequate and unreliable certification system: The existent seed quality monitoring and certification system is grossly inadequate to cater to the international requirement of either seed potato or table potato. There is a need to restructure and strengthen the system as a backup for encouraging potato export. Insufficient Infrastructure: Infrastructure support for reduced cost of transportation to ports, cold chain facility, modern handling, grading, packaging line, modern transportation racks etc. are quite insufficient for promoting the potato exports in the country. Lack of warehousing facilities near ports: There is lack of warehousing/ cold storage facilities on exporting ports and being semi-perishable commodity, there are chances of losing potatoes at our ports itself. No brand value of Indian potatoes: Since very low volume of Indian potatoes are being exported, it has not been able to create a brand in world trade. Opportunities Private participation in quality seed production: Several private agencies are now producing quality potato seed using Indian varieties.