 Further, the Committee may also examine the resource generation efforts and implementation of Project-based Budgeting. (vi) Constraints To examine constraints hindering the institute in achieving its objectives and implementation of its programme and goals, and to recommend ways and means of minimizing or eliminating them. (vii) Looking forward To look into any other point considered relevant by the Committee or referred to it by the ICAR, the Institute Director or the Management Committee, in respect of future programme development, research prioritization and management changes. B. All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects (AlCRPs) 1. To analyze growth of manpower, number of co-operating centres, both in terms of funds as well as staff resources. 2. To critically examine and evaluate achievements of the AICRPs in research with reference to (i) focus on national programmes; (ii) multi location testing; (iii) evaluation of pests and diseases; (iv) exchange of scientific information; (v) inter-institutional and interdisciplinary linkages; (vi) development of strategic plans; (vii) linkages with international programmes; (viii) information on technology base; (ix) encouragement and guidance by the PC; (x) off-season nursery facilities, (xi) healthy competition in Annual Workshops and professional challenge; (xii) quality of recommendations of the Annual Workshops (group meetings) and follow-up on those recommendations; (xiii) whether research is of routine nature on trodden path or they are breaking new grounds; (xiv) whether there is individual initiative; (xv) whether there is too much of regimentation/rigidity; and (xvi) whether the resources including manpower are optimally utilized. Budget 3. To examine sufficiency of the Budget of the Co-ordinating Centre as a part of the total budget of the SAU and of the ICAR. Organization and Management 4. Integration of research - whether the work being carried out under the co-ordinating project derives full support from other related programmes, including basic and strategic researches. 5. What is the monitoring mechanism of the co-ordinated project in the co-operating centres to avoid distortions/duplication/overlapping in programmes of the AICRP and the SAU, including those at the regional stations? 11 6. Whether a strategic plan for the respective crop, commodity or natural resource with major emphasis on sustainability of production system developed by the co-ordinating unit in close collaboration with the co-operating centres? 7. How much operating funds does each scientist get under co-ordinated projects? Is it at least Rs 60,000 per scientist per year? 8. Whether the PC is located in the ICAR institute or the SAU? Whether institute scientists working in co-ordinated projects form the cadre strength of the institute, and their work forms the priority work of the institute? Do they get additional fund for the travel for the work of co- ordinated project? Annual Workshops (Group Meetings) 9.