 Chipsona 4 Processing (Chips) 2010 CIP 378711.5 and CIP 720125 K. Lalit Table 2013 CIP 380013.12 yy CIP in partnership with CPRI has introduced first time potato cultivation in dryland system of Rajasthan to alleviate the poverty and enhance the nutrition and food security through potato introduction in zero potato growing district will be a real break-through for the most backward and resource poor population. yy Potato has been introduced in non-potato growing in rice fallow system in North Bengal through double transplanting technology of boro rice and planting early maturing rice and potato varieties. A significant number of farmers have adopted this system in North Bengal to increase their income by cultivation potato as additional crop. Sweet potato yy Capacity strengthening: At least 3,000 farmers, women, and youth trained on various aspects of sweet potato production and utilization. Depending on the average land-holding pattern of the local farmers, the area of cultivation/expansion could be assessed. yy Access to improved varieties: Planting materials of improved varieties are available, in desired quantity and quality, to at least 80% of sweet potato farmers. yy Crop production: Sweetpotato production area and volume in tribal communities increased 150% in five years. yy Crop performance: On-farm yield average of sweetpotato and other crops increased 25%. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 74 yy Household income: Contribution of sweetpotato livelihoods (production-utilization) to overall household income increased by 50%. yy Food consumption: Year-round sweetpotato availability and consumption rate per capita increased 100%. yy Nutritional well-being: At least 1,500 women and children met RDA for micronutrients, through consumption of sweetpotato and other nutritious food crops. Expected impact on livelihoods and poverty alleviation yy Farmers start generating more income from their land through sweetpotato production. yy A sound, self-sustaining seed production system is in operation. yy Farmers start consuming and marketing locally produced sweet potato. 3. Projects/activities in progress in India Potato i) Development and evaluation of potato germplasm and varieties with improved tolerance to abiotic stress and viruses. ii) Development and evaluation of potato varieties with improved tolerance to heat, drought stress and viruses in different agro-ecologies: i) Hybridization, ii) Evaluation at Modipuram, iii) evaluation in different generations, iv) Multilocation testing trials in AICRP. iii) Innovative Technologies for cultivating potato in cereal based system in desert area of Jaisalmer, Jodhpur and Bikaner, Rajasthan. iv) Developing farmer’s based sustainable potato seed systems in non-traditional seed areas in plateau region (Karnataka/ Maharashtra). v) Introducing short duration potato through double transplanting technology of boro rice in fallow land after Khariff rice. (CIP/IRRI collaborative program).