 Integrated Scheme for Agricultural Marketing schemes (AGMARKNET): This is launched to promote creation of agricultural marketing infrastructure by providing backend subsidy support to State, cooperative and private sector investments services are provided through AGMARKNET portal which is a G2C e-governance portal that caters to the needs of various stakeholders such as farmers, industry, policy makers and academic institutions by providing agricultural marketing related information from a single window. It facilitates web-based information flow, of the daily arrivals and prices of commodities in the agricultural produce markets spread across the country. Kisan Sarathi: It is an ICT based interface solution with an ultimate goal of creating an intelligent online platform for supporting agriculture at local niche with national perspective. It is intended to provide a seamless, multimedia, multi-ways connectivity to the farmers with the latest agricultural technologies, knowledge base and the pool of large number the subject matter experts. It is a joint initiative of Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Digital India Corporation (DIC), Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology (MeitY), Government of India. Till now, 20,140,96 farmers have been registered in Kisan Sarathi covering 50,124 villages along with 368 KVKs with Interactive Information Dissemination System (IIDS) which has following features: • Pull and push based advisory system using mobile phones. • Right information at right time in desired mode and language. • Customizable and need based information delivery to farmers. • Know Your Farmers (KYF) facility to subject matter experts. • Enhances the outreach of national agricultural research, education and extension system. G20 policy decisions on digitalization in agriculture G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) was held in Varanasi (17–19April 2023). The MACS is the 100th G20 Meeting during India’s G20 Presidency. About 80 delegates from G20 Member States; Invited Guest Countries, International Organizations participated in the meeting. Dr. Himanshu Pathak, Secretary (DARE) and Director General (ICAR) chaired the meeting for three days.