 This variety also shows high micronutrients i.e., zinc (23.1 ppm) and iron (11.8 ppm) contents. Swarna Sukha Dhan is suitable for cultivation under direct- seeded condition in drought prone rainfed and water limiting irrigated areas. This variety shows moderate resistance to most of the major diseases and insect pests. In addition, adoption of Swarna Sukha Dhan also increases net income (`15000- 20000 /ha) of farmers over their local cultivated varieties. Adoption of high-yielding, multiple stresses (drought, disease, and insect pest) tolerant, good grain and cooking quality, high micronutrients (zinc and iron) contents, input-responsive rice variety Swarna Sukha Dhan will play substantial role in increasing productivity of rice and lead for food security among farm families in the drought prone rainfed and water limited irrigated areas in Uttar Pradesh and Jharkhand as well as other eastern states. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: santosh9239@gmail.com Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ` 700.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” This book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel. For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been compiled in this monogram. This will be of immense value to the researchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming.   

Website Link : https://icar.gov.in/  In This Issue Cover I : Soybean: The Wonder Bean Cover IV : Save the environment Volume 73, No. 09 SEPTEMBER 2023 IS/ISO 9001:2015 Organization Disclaimer • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incur- ring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service.