 The concept of carbon credit is gaining more and more attention with time and hence sustainable cultivation of rice is an issue which demands a greater attention of the stakeholders starting from the smallholding farmers (SHFs) to the policy-makers. Rice can be grown more sustainably by adoption of crop rotation, advanced agronomic practices of cultivation which reduce the amount of time fields are flooded, reducing tillage and breeding varieties that have a rhizosphere which emit less methane. Sustainable diversification of rice The wheat-paddy cycle which has been followed in India since the green revolution days has resulted in lowering of ground water table, Indian Farming 73 (08): 33-35; August 2023 severe degradation of land and heavy environmental pollution due to the excess use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Diversification can be practiced primarily in the form of (1), Multiple cropping, i.e. growing two or more crops in the same field within a given year with a definite row arrangement and; (2), Sequence cropping, i.e. growing two or more crops in sequence on the same piece of land in a farming year. Diversification of rice based cropping systems by including crops like other cereals, pulses, millets and even fishery and duckery can help in reversing the damage done to the soil, environment and groundwater. Additionally, crops like pulses, bananas etc. Advantages of crop rotation for sustainable diversification Indian Farming 34 August 2023 and flowers like marigold can be planted on rice bunds which not only can act as a source of beneficial insects/biocontrol agents but also can generate extra income. In low lying areas which have frequent inundation, rice-aquaculture has been adopted successfully. In this system fish generates secondary income, and an increased soil health and food security is achieved. In comparison to monoculture, adoption of a diversified cropping system helps in increasing farm profits, reducing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, improving soil health, protecting against vagaries of climate change and sustainable water use. Zero and reduced tillage In the rice-wheat cropping system which is predominant in the Indo-Gangetic plains, zero- tillage practices are encouraged for wheat, pulses etc. after rice have been developed. In the zero- tillage system, it is possible to opt for surface seeding where the wheat seeds are broadcast before or just after the harvesting of rice without any field preparation. Zero tillage causes a drastic reduction in tillage intensity which directly results in cost cutting and at the same time, early planting of wheat helps in better yields. Additionally there could be a potentially huge environmental benefit if the challenge of reducing rice tillage can be handled through better agronomic practices. However, this method needs adequate moisture in the field during seed broadcasting.