 Crop protection studies: Maize genotypes V433, VSL13, V25, V345 and V341 showed antibiosis mechanism of resistance to sitophilus weevil. Four lentil genotypes were found moderately resistant to pulse beetle Callosobruchus sp. Owing to the importance of insect pollinators of the region, a total of 22 non- apis bees were catalogued. EASTERN HIMALAYAS Phosphorus (P) tolerance and validation of Pup- 1 linked markers in rice genotypes: Rice varieties/ genotypes/landraces (172) grown in upland/lowland of North Eastern Region were phenotypically screened in hydroponics for identification of tolerance/sensitivity to P-deficiency at Meghalaya. Systematic molecular analysis was done for validation of Pup1 linked markers in all rice varieties/genotypes/landraces identified to be tolerant or sensitive to low soil P. Tolerant donor lines identified are Vandana, Sahbhagi Dhan, Rasi, Akshayadhan, Bhutmuri, Gobindabhog, Radhunipagol, RCPL 1-113, Dagardeshi, Pynthor, Paijong, Bhalum - 3 etc. and the presence of Pup1 in these lines was validated. Satabdi, Naveen, Anjali, Samba Mahsuri, Improved Samba Mahsuri, MTU 1010, NDR 359, Gomtidhan, Bhalum 1, Bhalum 2, Bhalum 4 etc., were found highly susceptible to low soil P and were also validated by markers. Interestingly, Swarna, a very popular rice of India, was found highly tolerant to P deficiency; and presence of Pup1 QTL was also confirmed by Pup 1 specific markers. Rice plants growing in hydroponics showed diverse root morphology directly correlated with presence of Pup1 QTL. Based on the results obtained, Marker Assisted Backcross breeding programme can be initiated for development of phosphorus efficient rice for NEH region Physiological aspects of phosphorus efficiency in maize: Different nutrient sources of phosphorus were evaluated in acid soil of Meghalaya. Chlorophyll increased in maize-plants provided with pig manure at 5 tonnes/ha and biochar at 10 tonnes/ha. Anthocyanin accumulation in the leaves with biochar applied at 5 tonnes/ha was significantly higher compared to other Root diversity of rice varieties/genotypes/Landraces with and without Pup 1 QTL (Pup1 + ve/Pup1–ve) Pest attack in indigenous orchid A new pest was identified which attacks the indigenous orchid (Eulophia andamanensis) as Lema pectoralis Baly (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) and is reported for the first time in the Island. In the infested flower Lema beetle attack in Eulophia andamanensis Adult beetle of Lema sp. spike, the florets dropped which reduces the market value of the flowers. The adults of Lema sp forms a frothy white mass in the spike in which it lays its eggs. The larval and adult stages of the insect damages the flower spikes. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 131 nutrient sources. Root exudation showed that organic acids were synthesized and excreted more in control and in roots with pig manure at 5 tonnes/ha.