 According to Gandhiji, the village economy cannot be completed without essential village industries such as hand-grinding, oil-pressing and other agro-based industries. The village industries would generate employment to millions of people, and provide an outlet for the creative skill and resourcefulness of the people. Under Village Industries Scheme, individuals need to engage themselves in home industries in their homes and cottages. Mahatma Gandhi emphasized on production by the masses and not on centralized mass production. While production is to be carried out individually in a large number of places on a small scale, the sharing of raw materials and marketing of finished goods are to be carried out collectively on a corporate basis. He wanted to carry production units to the homes of the masses, particularly in villages. As Gandhiji was for the development of the cottage and rural industries, he also suggested delocalization of industries as he believed that decentralization is essential for the survival of democracy and for the establishment of a non-violent state. In rural areas, people generally depend on the locally available resources to generate their wealth and for their livelihood support. The enhancement in the income of rural folk and sanitation were the basics of Gandhian thought of rural self-reliance. This can be achieved only by optimizing the use of human and other resources available in the villages. Rural development is closely linked with the biomass resources that any village may have. The rural area produces ample wastes which can be efficiently used to provide energy security, enhance income and employment to rural livelihood. The waste management plants to be introduced for such types of resources in the rural area may be small or cottage level industries. Examples 109 of such industries may be briquetting plants, bio-gas plants, biomass based power plants, bio- fertilizer plants, bio-char plants, etc. Integration of cottage industries with agriculture will provide work to the farmers in their extra time and thus will harness all the energy that at present is being wasted. In fact, these industries are best suited to the cadence of rural life. These industries can increase the income of the villagers and help in satisfying their basic requirements. They not only remove poverty and unemployment from the villages but also make them self-sufficient in economic units. 3. ICAR’s Technologies for Agro-waste Management and Rural Entrepreneurship Development 3.1. Use of biomass/crop residues for rural livelihood Biomass contributes a major share (1/3rd) of primary energy in India. Biomass fuels are largely used for cooking and water heating in rural households and by traditional and artisan industries. Different researchers have given different estimates of biomass availability in rural India. Pathak et al. (2004) assessed the quantity of recoverable biomass from cropland, grassland, forest, roadsides, and agro-forestry.