 Institute made efforts to educate people for conserving varieties in their own orchard by following the SCMD members organized diversity show in Kasmandi Kalan SCMD was awarded Plant Community Genome Saviour Award July–August 2021 11 principle of "one variety with one farmer" which will make conservation of thousands of mango varieties possible. Collective effort of the community for the conservation of the varieties is the only way how on-farm conservation of rare varieties would be achieved. Strategy for conservation Malihabad, known for the hundreds of mango varieties is losing varietal wealth developed during 200 years because of urbanization, commercial varieties like Dashehari and declining enthusiasm for rare mangoes. During old days, hundreds of mango varieties were cultivated for passion and mostly the fruits were exchanged with friends or distributed amongst relatives without much commerce. Many a times, mango feasts (dawat) organized by nawabs and big landlords saved a number of varieties in the orchards. The collective efforts by the communities can help in saving the invaluable mango varieties by taking up a responsibility of planting one variety by one farmer thereby conserving thousands of varieties with limited resources. The conservation drive can also be promoted by consuming rare varieties by the masses and provide market place in the city. It will make the availability easy and provide good returns to farmers. Constraints Sustainable on-farm conservation is not very easy because of livelihood associated with the farming community. Farmers are interested in planting grafted varieties which have high market value. They want to utilise land not only for mango but for other high return crops. Old orchards have been sold out, thus more than a century old trees have disappeared. Descendants of big orchards with multiple varieties live in cities and they don’t have much interest in owning varieties. Presently, the scenario has totally changed as mango is being cultivated both by economically rich and resource poor people. For majority, livelihood is mainly supported by the income from the mango orchard. With the increasing cost of land, farmers are interested in selling the cultivated land than growing unique mango varieties. Summary Mango varieties are abundant in India, as they grow in tropical and sub-tropical climates and come in over a thousand varieties. Traditional mango varieties have a wide range of unique flavours, nutritional and medicinal properties. A large number of old mango varieties are being conserved by custodian farmers. Their efforts will demonstrate on-farm conservation of mango diversity. Non-commercial mango varieties grown by farmers are critical for conservation. Traditional varieties help farmers' livelihoods in areas where commercial varieties are scarce. Mango festivals can play an important role in demonstrating diversity.