 Farmers form the bulk of India’s population and are the backbone of the country. Majority of the India’s population depend on agriculture and associated occupations such as cattle farming, dairying, poultry and piggery. He observed that a farmer’s life is necessarily one of cooperation, not competition. He wanted the state’s support to farmers should be directed at transforming them to become a vibrant self-reliant, and not to make them dependent on the state. Gandhiji recommended co-operative farming, which would save labour, capital and tools and provide employment to all adult villagers and increase production. He said, ‘we must attempt to prevent further fragmentation of land and encourage people to take to co-operative farming’. According to him, the agriculture of a village should be planned in such a manner that each village shall be self-sufficient in its food requirements. Gandhiji insisted on the social workers to render effective service in the village, for which they must acquire sufficient theoretical as well as practical knowledge about agriculture. The Mahatma had a noble dream of making Indian farming remunerative, self-reliant, sustainable and nature- friendly. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), since its inception, has been working to realize the dreams of the Mahatma and has made significant contributions in achieving those. It is an autonomous organization under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Formerly known as Imperial Council of Agricultural Research, it was established on July 16, 1929. The Council is the apex body for coordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture x including horticulture, fisheries and animal sciences in the country. With its headquarters at New Delhi and a network of 101 research institutes and 71 agricultural universities spread across the country, this is one of the largest national agricultural systems in the world. The Council has played a pioneering role in ushering the Green Revolution and subsequent developments in agriculture in India through its research and technology development that has enabled the country to increase the food production several folds and thus ensuring national food and nutritional security, which the Mahatma dreamed of. The Council has played a major role in promoting excellence in education in agriculture, as envisaged by Gandhiji. To pay our homage and respect to the Father of the Nation on his 150th birth anniversary, ICAR brought out this publication “Realizing Mahatma’s Dream of Agriculture and Rural Development: Contributions of Indian Council of Agricultural Research”. The publication presents the contributions of ICAR in implementing the Gandhian philosophy for realizing sustainable agriculture and rural development.