) vi Recommendation: Š Š Studies on reproductive and pollination biology, development of cost effective mass propagation protocols of orchid species with medicinal and floricultural importance is recommended for future research and development. HS2 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society for Spices, Kozhikode, Kerala ii Title National Symposium on Spices and Aromatic Crops (SYMSAC -IX) iii Venue and Date(s) 15-17 March 2018 at School of Agricultural Sciences and Rural Development, Nagaland University, Nagaland iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.50 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F. No. 23(25)/2018-Cdn. (Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Successful farmer Producer Companies need to be promoted in NER for value chain management in spices. Š Š Awareness regarding marketing requirement, quality criteria, post harvest management and value addition through involvement of governmental and non-governmental agencies is required. Š Š Production and distribution for diseases-free quality planting material should be promoted through accredited nurseries. 31 HS3 i Name of the Applicant Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwavidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia, West Bengal ii Title National Symposium on Recent Advances on Floriculture and Urban Horticulture in Global Perspective iii Venue and Date(s) 4-5 January 2018 at Farmers Academy & Conservation Centre (Lake Hall), BCKV, Kalayani iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs.1.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F. No. 23(52)/2017-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š Need for promotion of flower based by product industries and strengthening of R&D in flower crops. Š Š Transgenic approach devoid of social, ethical issues should be taken up for effective pest management strategy. Š Š Sustainable use of native plants in landscaping should be promoted. HS4 i Name of the Applicant Centre for Innovation in Science and Social Action (CISSA), Vellayambalam, Thiruvananthapuram ii Title National Banana Festival 2018 (NBF 2018) iii Venue and Date(s) 17-21 February 2018 at Kalliyoor, Thiruvananthapuram, Kerala iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F. No. 23(60)/2017-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Efforts should be taken to popularize technologies developed by institutions like ICAR-NRC Banana, CFTRI and various Agricultural Universities in value addition. Initiatives to enhance export of banana with necessary infrastructure like storage facilities, refrigeration, packaging units should be established. HORTICULTURE SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 32 HS5 i Name of the Society: Society for promotion of Horticulture, ICAR- IIHR, Bengaluru ii Title: National Horticulture Fair- 2019 iii Venue and Date(s): ICAR- IIHR Bengaluru, 23-25 January 2019 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.0 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23 (70)/2018-Cdn (Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š Systems to develop robots for production of grafts in vegetables especially in tomato, chilly and gourds should be explored.