 He also congratulated the Kerala Agricultural University, Thrissur; Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad, and Dr Punjabrao Deshmukh Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya, Akola for having received the Performance Prizes. He urged the congregated Vice-Chancellors to bring strategic transformation in agricultural research, education and development systems for an accelerated and inclusive growth in agriculture. He stated that the promise made in the VC’s Conference at Pantnagar has been fulfilled and, as demanded, a new initiative on “Modernization of AU Farms” has been approved with an outlay of Rs. 422 crores. Consequent upon expeditious clearance of the CCEA, this project has been operationalized from this year itself. Hon’ble Agriculture Minister appreciated the singular and massive exercise of PG Course Curricula revision undertaken by the Education Division of the Council in the wake of new cutting-edge technologies and demanding global scenario. The revised PG Course Curricula on adoption would greatly help in further making the higher agricultural education more utilitarian and relevant in tune with the scientific and technological advancements and the demands of growing economy of the country. He also emphasized on integrated farming systems, promoted through an ICAR network project, along with addressing the challenges of degradation of natural resources and climate change. He showed his satisfaction with the functioning of experiential learning units and niche areas of excellence programmes started by the Council to serve the cause of excellence and unifying knowledge and skill in education. Another new initiative i.e. “Overseas Fellowships” was perceived by the Minister as a much needed mechanism to serve a dual objective, namely, (i) facilitating education of Indian nationals in one of the best University abroad, and (ii) facilitating admissions of foreign students in Indian AUs towards demonstrating the strength of Indian agricultural system at global level. He stated that the development grant to AUs has been increased to address the needed support particularly for developing 3 infrastructure and undertaking major refurbishing works. He said that in view of rapidly increasing number of girl students, up-to 2 girls’ hostels to each AU are to be provided in XI Plan along with other girls-related amenities. Dr. Anwar Alam, President, Indian Agricultural Universities Association (IAUA), appreciated the ICAR for enhanced financial, technical and policy support to AUs and proposed the Vote of Thanks. Technical Session Dr. Mangala Rai, Secretary, DARE and D.G. ICAR, while chairing the technical session, appreciated the services of VCs and Directors of ICAR, DUs who completed their tenure during the year gone by and extended warm welcome to the VCs / Directors who were attending the conference for the first time. The regular agenda was taken up thereafter.