 The one of its kind reforms of allowing foreign germplasms in the breeding programme changed the face of the Indian agriculture post-independence and forever due to visionary political-scientific leadership in 60s. The establishment of Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board (ASRB) in 1973, Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) in 1974 and Agricultural Research Service (ARS) in 1975, and Agrinnovate India Ltd. (AgIn) in 2011 for commercialization of ICAR technologies were the landmark structural reforms. Parallelly, the leadership in ICAR helped country to move on the path of revolutions through green, white, yellow, blue and more recently pulses, sugar and gene revolution. ICAR actively engaged itself in the policy formulation and implementation such as Specifications and Standards for Biofertilizers and Micro- Indian Agriculture after Independence 408 inoculants under Fertilizer Control Order, 1985; Comprehensive Marine Fisheries Policy, 2004; Seed Bill, 2004; Coastal Aquaculture Authority Act, 2005; Nutrient-based Subsidy for Fertilizers, 2010; National Agroforestry Policy, 2014; National Policy on Marine Fisheries, 2017; National Mariculture Policy, 2019; Inland Fisheries and Aquaculture Policy, 2019; National Policy for Fisheries, 2020; and Pesticide Management Bill, 2020, regulations on germplasm and biodiversity, quarantine, climate change mitigation and adaptation and more recently on genomics and gene editing. ICAR had the benefit of scientific leaders all along the various stages of its transformational journey, which is set to remain as an ever- evolving continuum. 1. Introduction The transformational narration of Indian Agriculture post-independence will be incomplete without the mention of the phenomenal transformation and the pivotal role played by organizational leadership of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in shaping the National Agricultural Research, Extension and Education System (NARES). Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav is an opportune time to salute the great leaders who removed the cutting blade of hunger and poverty from 1/6th of the humanity on the Globe. Indian agriculture continues to battle the formidable challenges of meeting food and nutritional requirements of increasing population from depleting and deteriorating land, water and other resources that are under acute pressure due to overuse, misuse and abuse. However, unlike in its formative years after independence, the country now effectively deals with current challenges including the unforeseen ones like the COVID-19 pandemic. Several attributions can be made to this phenomenal journey of farm sector viz., political will, science and technology, human resources, investments, infrastructure, and the resolute and resilient farming community. The organizational leadership played the catalytic role in this spectacular makeover.