 capitata), pointed gourd (Trichosanthes dioica), sponge gourd (Luffa cylindrica), and brinjal (Solanum melongena) are extensively grown. Bihar, in particular, plays a crucial role in supplying a variety of these vegetables to other regions within India, with significant distribution to neighbouring eastern states, Uttar Pradesh, and the national capital, Delhi. Considering the soil and agro-climatic condition, it is considered that there is a huge scope for increasing the areas and productivity of horticultural crops in this region which may create job opportunity and increasing the income of the farmers. Proper cultivation and promotion of horticultural crops can significantly help people in this region break free from the cycle of poverty. Even marginal and small farmers with limited landholdings can hope to increase their incomes through these opportunities. The primary bottleneck hindering horticultural growth in this region is a weak extension system. Currently, only about 30% of developed technologies reach farmers, with clear evidence of an elite bias in technology adoption. Although, Mission for Integrated Development of Horticulture (MIDH) and Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY) are major initiatives of the Government of India for promotion of horticultural crops apart from the state initiatives. Despite these initiatives, the horticultural growth in eastern India still faces numerous challenges. Need for digital transformation in horticulture In light of these challenges, digitalization has emerged as a transformative tool for modernizing horticultural crop cultivation and addressing the specific needs of horticultural farmers. In eastern India, the dissemination of agricultural technologies has been hindered by the state’s vast and diverse geography, limited extension services, and the traditional public extension system’s difficulty in reaching a large number of smallholder horticulture farmers. The traditional extension system, though well- intentioned, faces the challenge of connecting millions of farmers across the region with a limited number of extension personnel. The timely dissemination of relevant, location-specific information to the right farmers is critical but often difficult to achieve. Furthermore, the need to increase horticultural production under changing climatic conditions has created an urgent demand for innovative approaches to technology dissemination and knowledge sharing. Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, has proactively addressed these challenges by adopting digital technologies. Since its establishment in 2010, BAU has become a hub for agricultural innovations, especially through its application of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). Over the last decade, the university has incorporated diverse digital tools into its extension services, enhancing November–December 2024 59 its ability to connect with farmers more effectively and with improved accuracy.