 A QR coded gene bank exclusively for wild genetic resources of banana established at ICAR-NRC-Banana, Tiruchirappalli. This is the first of its kind in India for conservation of genetic diversity and identify resistant sources to various biotic and abiotic stresses in banana. In livestock, 10 new breeds of indigenous livestock species, Kathani cattle (Maharashtra), Sanchori cattle (Rajasthan) and Masilum cattle (Meghalaya); Purnathadi buffalo (Maharashtra); Sojat goat (Rajasthan), Karauli goat (Rajasthan) and Gujari goat (Rajasthan); Banda pig (Jharkhand), Manipuri Black pig (Manipur) and Wak Chambil (Meghalaya) were registered making total number of registered indigenous breeds to 212. A total of 44,860 semen doses of 17 native livestock breeds, including nine of cattle (Red Sindhi, Badri, Red Kandhari, Nimari, Deoni, Gaolao, Bhijarpuri, Ghumsari, Khariar) and 8 of goat (Ganjam, Jamnapari, Beetal, Berari, Osmanabadi, Sirohi, Sangamneri and Barbari) were cryopreserved. Also, 1,020 somatic cell vials of 7 native breeds-- Purnea, Mewati, Hariana and Shweta Kapila of cattle, Konkan Kanyal of goat, Doom and Purnea of pig were added for cryopreservation. Presently, National Gene Bank has repository of 61 native breeds/ populations of livestock and poultry in form of semen, and 28 in form of somatic cells. Under the Mission Zero Non-descript AnGR, 22 new populations of native livestock and poultry have been identified. These are being characterized in their respective breeding tracts. In fisheris, 3 freshwater species Amblycepsh molaii from Kawlchaw river, Mizoram; Pangasius icaria from Cauvery river, Karnataka; and Tor sattalensis from Sattal Lake, Uttarakhand and 5 marine fish/ shrimp Eptatretus wadgensis, Dussumeria modakandai, Ariosomaalbi maculatum, Ariosoma melanospilos and Actinimens koyas were discovered. Canary top wrasse, Halichoeres leucoxanthus, previously distributed in Maldives, Myanmar, Chrismas Island (Australia), Thailand and Western Indonesia was found for the first time in Indian waters. For the first time, recorded catch of marine/deep sea fish species like Aluterus monoceros, Antennarius indicus, Ariomma indica, Diodom hystrix, Labotes surinamensis, Nemipterus randalli, Priacanthus prolixus, Seriolinanigro fasciata, in Hooghly-Matlah estuary. Indian oil sardine’s whole genome assembly is 1.077 GB (31.86 Mb scaffold N50) in size with repeated content of 22.84%. The sequences were deposited in NCBI, GeneBank. The cell lines from rainbow trout heart and snow trout muscles were developed, authenticated and deposited in ICAR-NBFGR National Repository of Fish Cell Lines. Crop Management: Application ofconsortium of methane utilizing bacteria (MUB) formulation comprising of Methylobacterium oryzae MNL7 and Paenibacillus polymyxa MaAL 70 through seedling root dip technology and as spray reduced methane emission by 5 to 25% in flooded rice. Rise in temperature by 1.