 yy The poultry farmers are recommended, disinfect the premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the poultry houses and premises. yy The litter materials in poultry shed need to be changed to prevent coccidiosis infestation. If red diarrhoea symptoms are noticed in the birds, immediately administer anti-coccidial drugs (in the drinking water for 3 -5 days.) Jammu-Kashmir & Ladakh Sheep & Goat yy The floor of the animal shed should be clean and dry to prevent foot rot and other diseases. In case of foot rot, wash affected feet (foot bath) with 10% ZnSO4 or CuSO4 daily until lesions subside. In severe case, provide antibiotic Enrofloxacin @7mg per kg body weight. yy Adequate space for animals should be given to prevent overcrowding. yy Give enterotoxaemia vaccination @ 2 ml s/c to pregnant Ewe/Doe before one month of expected date of lambing/kidding. yy 25-50 g molasses per day may be provided to each pregnant Ewe/ Doe to prevent pregnancy toxemia. yy Following feeding schedule may be practiced for feeding lambs/ kids: yy 300 ml milk for first seven days of age yy 350 ml milk and little amount of creep mixture from 8th - 30th day 39 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy 400 ml milk and 100-150 g creep feed from 31th - 60th day yy 200 ml milk and 200-250 g creep feed beyond 60 days of age Poultry yy The poultry sheds should be properly cleaned and disinfected with 60-70g of potassium permanganate mixed with 120-150 ml formaline solution per 10 cubic feet space. Place the birds in the sheds after 24 hours of fumigation. yy The saw dust should be dried completely before using as bedding material yy Apply hydrated lime powder @ 1-2 kg per 10 sq.ft area in the shed before birds are placed in the shed. yy All the equipment in the shed should be disinfected using hot water. yy The footbath at the entrance should have 5% phenyl for dipping the feet. yy Ensure vaccination of chicks against Ranikhet disease on 5th day. yy Add 8% sugar solution containing 1% sodium chloride during first 15 hours after placement. yy Maintain proper shed temperature (35 0C) during the first week of brooding. yy Provide good ventilation in the shed during the first three weeks of brooding. yy Provide minimum 23 hours light in the brooder continuously. Backyard poultry yy The adult birds should be allowed to move out in the open yards during daytime. yy Vaccinate the adult birds against Ranikhet disease @ 0.5ml intramuscular after 2 months of age. 40 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Deworm the birds using piperazine hydrochloride @ 5ml per 10 birds yy Provide a minimum light of 16 hours for adult birds yy Use anti-stress vitamins such as vimeral @ 10ml per 10 birds for 3 days in a week Other yy The consumption of raw or undercooked of animal product should be avoided. Raw meat, milk or animal organ should be handled with care to avoid cross contamination with uncooked food as per good food practices.