 Agrawal All Rights Reserved 2020, Agricultural Education Division © Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Design and Production Dr. V.K. Bharti, Chief Production Officer, DKMA Sh. Punit Bhasin, Chief Technical Officer, DKMA Published by Agricultural Education Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-II Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 ISBN: 978-81-7164-193-2 Printed by Dr S.K. Singh, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa New Delhi 110 012; Lasertypeset and printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, New Delhi 110 028. FOREWORD I ndian agriculture has continuously evolved to remain responsive to meet the growing and diversified needs of stakeholders in the entire production to consumption area. Creation of skilled, talented and entrepreneurial human resources to harness demographic dividend in an equitable manner is one of the crucial parameters for sustainable development of agriculture in India. To realize the targets of growth rate set out in the agriculture policy, adequate trained manpower, that is professionally competent, socially sensitive and ethically strong, is required to provide the technical backstopping. In order to address the challenges for manpower development in agriculture, ICAR has fostered a countrywide arrangement with the universities under the Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Agricultural University (ICAR-AU) system to set aside 15% and 25% of their seats for Bachelor and Master’s degree programmes to be filled through All India Entrance Examination for Admission (AIEEA) conducted annually by Agricultural Education Division. The centralized admission to 25% seats of doctoral degree programmes of these universities through All India Competitive Examination for the award of Junior/Senior Research Fellowship, AICE-JRF/SRF(PGS), was also introduced by the Council from the Academic Session 2015-16. The online counseling for admission to different disciplines of agriculture & allied sciences in UG, PG and Ph.D. degree programmes was introduced by the Council w.e.f. the Academic Session 2017-18. From the Academic Year 2016-17, admissions through the ICAR’s All India Entrance Examination are not allowed for non- accredited colleges and programmes. Since 2019, these examinations are being conducted in LAN based CBT mode by the National Testing Agency (NTA), an autonomous premier testing organization under the aegis of Department of Higher Education, Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India. From 2020-21, the Council will conduct a single entrance examination for admission to doctoral degree programmes in the universities, including all the four ICAR-DUs, under the ICAR-AU system. The Agricultural Education Division has brought out a utilitarian compilation of the trends in UG, PG and Ph.D. examinations conducted by the Council over the years.