 • Promote client oriented on-farm/farm innovation research and technology assessment, refinement and transfer through participatory approaches on convergence mode. • Foster development in communication research and linkages with rural development programmes and strengthen micro-planning through inter-departmental and participatory approaches. 3. Salient Achievements Establishment activities:  Of the allotted land area (587 acres), 44 acres are currently being developed in to academic- cum-residential campus. Shaikshanik Bhawan (a Prefabricated building) & 1853 m boundary wall around 44 acres were completed.  The campus of ICAR-IARI, Gogamukh (Assam) was inaugurated by Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, GOI, Shri Narendra Singh Tomar ji on the 25th September, 2020.  Construction of Academic-cum-Administrative Building was completed inJune 2022. Academic activities:  From the academic session of 2015-16, students of IARI-Assam are being admitted at IARI- New Delhi for M.Sc. Programme each year in four teaching disciplines.39 students have completed M. Sc. Programme and 25 students are currently undergoing M. Sc. Programme.  Field research work on various problems pertaining to the North Eastern region is being carried out by the students in the region itself. Inputs Supplied: For the extension of the technologies generated by ICAR, Seeds amounting to 2.39 Crores were distributed under NEH scheme for demonstrations at farmers’ fields in Assam through Krishi Vigyan Kendras under the Director, ATARI, Zone-VI, Guwahati (Assam) during 2019-2022. 4 Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders Scientists belonging to the disciplines of Agricultural Statistics, Fruit Science, Aquaculture, Fish Health, Agricultural Processes &Structural Engineering, Spices and Medicinal plants are acting as the resource persons for different stakeholders. Main Gate Academic-cum-Administrative Building 58 ICAR Institutes Profile 58 ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute (Jharkhand) 1. Contact details i. Postal Address : ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute-Jharkhand Gauria Karma, Barhi, Hazaribagh, Jharkhand -825405 ii. Name of the Director : Dr. Ashok Kumar Singh iii. Email Address/ Phone No.: iarijharkhand@gmail.com 2. Mandate and activities • Conducting basic, strategic and anticipatory research in the field of agriculture and allied sector for enhanced productivity quality and livelihood security. Activities: a) Education: (i) To promote excellence and foster high standard of education for holistic agrarian development in region (ii) To orient the education program towards future needs and opportunities present in the area. (iii) Strengthen non-formal training to promote entrepreneurial skills for commercialization of agriculture. (iv) To develop quality human resources in agriculture and allied sector to cater the future needs.