 Infographics Dashboard of KRISHI Portal has been enriched by adding the following (i) Details of IPR design database; and (ii) Institutes, present NAAS Score. ICAR geo-portal: Updated/Uploaded daily layers of (i) All India crops residue burning points for the period are regularly being depicted on India map by ICAR-IARI, New Delhi since 1 June, 2019 (latest depiction of points 15 October, 2023); (ii) Crop residue burning (Wheat) depicted on India Map latest by 30 May, 2023 and (iii) Paddy residue burning in five states till 15 October, 2023 in association with ICAR-IARI, New Delhi. Area Production and Yield Information System: Website of Area Production and Yield Information System has been developed with the facility of selection-based search (like season, crop, state district). This website has separated specific search pages which contain filters like season, crop, state, district and from year-to-year. These filters work individually and in combination as per users requirement. Virtual Reality (VR): Virtual reality facilities have been established in all Agricultural Universities. The virtual reality modules that have been developed are Phenomics facility, pusa farm sun fridge; protected cultivation technologies, hydroponics, fish dissection and anatomy; artificial insemination; paddy straw collector cum chopper; tractor simulation; Uterine torsion in Buffalo and Cattle; Nematology-Study of Nematodes, Assisted reproductive technologies (OPU-IVF and cloning) in dairy animals, advanced irrigation methods and technologies to improve water use efficiency, histo- biochemical and molecular studies in drought/salinity stress in sugarcane during various growth stages and SOCIAL SCIENCE E-Learning portal has been developed with an objective to strengthen the Agriculture Higher Education in India by developing and disseminating the e-courses for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. At present e-contents for 70 postgraduate and 141 undergraduate courses are available on this portal. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 145 seed life cycle–genesis, science, seed parts. ​ Knowledge management system for DUS characteristics of crops: A web based knowledge management system for DUS characteristics of crops has been developed for implementation of functionalities followed in PPV&FRA and DUS Centers. Demonst- ration of the system was provided to the Registrar General, PPV&FRA. Meetings were conducted with the NIC team regarding data exchange through API and APIs were exchanged with NIC. ASmiR (Abiotic stress responsive miRNA prediction in plants): An online production server ‘ASmir’, which is a machine learning–based computational model for prediction of miRNAs associated with four specific abiotic stresses such as cold, drought, heat and salt have been developed. The proposed generalized computational model and the developed prediction tool are expected to supplement the existing efforts for identification of specific abiotic stress-responsive miRNAs in plants.