 Third, I find a 35 percent increase in bicycle ownership among households who gain access to improved road connectivity, consistent with households investing in assets that allow for greater mobility in the presence of better infrastructure. This channel is consistent with prior works that have discussed the role of labor availability in influencing agricultural practices (Hicks and Johnson, 1979; Feder et al., 1985). I also consider several alternative channels such as changes in access to credit, increased information flows, and social learning; I find weak evidence in support of these channels. This paper adds to a large literature that seeks to understand barriers to productive investments in agriculture, which include limited access to information and learning, credit constraints, aversion to risk, high costs and behavioral biases.2 This has given rise to numerous attempts in recent years to relax these barriers through privately- provided interventions such as agricultural advising services (Cole and Fernando, 2021), cash grants and rainfall index insurance (Karlan et al., 2014; Cole et al., 2017), fertilizer subsidies (Duflo et al., 2011) and flood-tolerant crop varieties (Emerick et al., 2016), with mixed success. This paper is the first to document how improvements in rural road infrastructure can induce households to adopt modern inputs and technologies in agriculture. In particular, my findings suggest that small-scale cultivators may fail to adopt high-return, labor-intensive production technologies due to potentially high transaction costs in the casual daily labor market generated by poor infrastructure.3 The effect sizes I find are economically significant, suggesting that infrastruc- ture investments have the potential to significantly transform remote agrarian economies. Additionally, in contrast to the privately provided micro interventions described above, I study a massive government- administered program, which suggests a feasible policy instrument that can be implemented and scaled up in settings where connectivity is severely limited. This paper also contributes to a growing literature that estimates the causal effects of transportation infrastructure on economic outcomes. Estimating the causal impacts of infrastructure poses an important empirical challenge as placement is non-random and often driven by political and economic factors.4 The literature has made progress in addressing these endogeneity concerns using identification strategies that typically exploit geographical constraints or historical events. A bulk of these studies have evaluated large-scale infrastructure systems that reduce transport costs of goods and travel times of individuals across distant regions, focusing on aggregate outcomes such as GDP levels, real income, and trade volumes.