 Tank-cum- well system, a technology developed by ICAR-IIWM is also useful for micro level water resource development and use in plateau areas with 2 - 5% slope. Integrated rice- fish-horticulture-duck system is very useful in saucer shaped lowlands, where rainwater and flood water from the surrounding area accumulates. The prominent evaporation management options include early sowing, mulching, residue recycling, and zero tillage or reduced tillage. Enhanced rainwater productivity due to water harvesting has associated benefits of groundwater recharge and biodiversity promotion. *Corresponding author email: sachin.rautaray@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 22 January 2025 Crop interventions for abiotic and biotic stress tolerance in rainfed crops M. Srinivasa Rao*, B. Sarkar, V. Visha Kumari and V. K. Singh ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 The growing global population and climate change are intensifying the pressure on agricultural production, particularly in rainfed regions. Rainfed agriculture plays a vital role in global food production, especially in regions dependent on irregular and unpredictable rainfall patterns. However, these crops are highly vulnerable to both biotic (pests, diseases, weeds) and abiotic stresses (drought, heat, salinity, and nutrient deficiencies). Implementing effective crop interventions is critical to enhance the resilience and productivity of rainfed crops. Different crop interventions that mitigate biotic and abiotic stress are timely sowing, crop rotation, use of resistant cultivars, intercropping, cover crops, and trap crops. Each of these interventions offer cost-effective and ecologically sustainable methods to reduce the impact of biotic and or abiotic stress while promoting crop health and productivity. Keywords: Abiotic stress, Biotic stress, Crop interventions, Intercropping, Rainfed T HE rapidly growing global population is expected to put more pressure on the land to meet the demand of food. The change in climate is expected to increase the pressure further. Climate change is likely to exacerbate this strain, particularly in rainfed regions, which are highly susceptible to both biotic and abiotic stresses. Rainfed regions can be moulded as the hub for improved crop production despite the multitude of biophysical (soil, climate, etc.) and socio-economic constraints. Crop interventions focus on creating a balance between reducing biotic stress and enhancing tolerance to abiotic stress. For example, drought, excessive rainfall, and high temperatures can alter crop physiology, making crops more susceptible to pest infestations. Adoption of proper crop interventions like adjusted sowing times, crop rotation, intercropping, and the use of resistant cultivars, farmers can alleviate the dual impact of biotic and abiotic stresses in rainfed systems. Timely sowing The timing of sowing is crucial to avoiding periods of extreme weather.