 This number was less than 50 about five years back. Most of these entrepreneurs/startups are not formally studied agriculture but have family roots in agriculture, which makes them ideal candidates to spot the opportunity and develop solutions. Many of these startups have emerged independently, they have been mentored by industry itself. The experience, indicates that the food and agriculture sector has been thronged by the streams of educated youth, fired by the ideas, passion and innovations to launch newer kinds of technology and business models to lift the face of agriculture from primitive to hi-tech one. These entrepreneurs and start- ups are providing missing links in the agri-value chain and delivering efficient products, technologies and services to the farmers on one hand and the consumers on the other. From apps to farm automation; from protected cultivation to innovative food processing and packaging (Case 1); and from smart poultry and dairy ventures; From conventional farming to precision and smart agriculture (case 2). The proliferation of all innovations and technology driven powerful startups is set to revolutionize the food and agriculture sector. This not only speaks about millions of hopes associated with agriculture but also points out to the huge scope for agritech startups in the country to make those hopes of Indian farmers come true. Sustainability of business models: The scale of agtech start-ups (unlike consumer internet/ ecommerce) is not driven by discounts, GMV and eyeballs. For example, the value proposition in case of direct-to-farm models is around right quality of agri-inputs at right price and right time. Likewise, for tractor rental models – it is around optimisation of assets, efficiency and timeliness of farm operations in labour-starved market. The sustainability is integral to to learn more about the sector and how it can impact their tried and tested businesses. Companies like Mahindra, Mahyco as well as some forward-looking SMEs are deeply engaged with agtech startups. Many insurance companies are working with ag-data startups for determination of risk profile of farmers and farms for determination of risk premium and claim settlement. Likewise, banks including Yes Bank, Rabobank have also started to work closely with many agtech startups, which can enable banks to lend efficiently to the sector. The country paper through two cases clearly indicates enhanced opportunities for nurturing and building new enabling platforms for agri-business and agri- entrepreneurship in the country. Considering the large diversity of players in the entire agricultural production-consumption systems, there are focused areas for improving the system through R&D. The technologies and products need to be transferred through systematized approach and by forging more business partnership between technology developers and the seekers.