 Treatment with poultice: Thirty cases of local inflammatory swellings on any part of body irrespective of species were identified. Their initial inflammation was recorded with the help of vernier calipers. The poultice of bhangariya prepared earlier (approximately 250 g) kept on cotton, was applied on the inflammatory swellings in 20 cases. The bandage was applied on the affected part. The poultice of bhangariya was kept in contact with the affected part for 5 days and maximum up Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. Efficacy of bhangariya (E. alba) poultice on inflammatory swellings before and after treatmentat MASFSU Fig 2. Efficacy of iodine ointment on inflammatory swelling before and after treatment at MASFSU Fig. 3. Effect of bhangariya poultice and iodine ointment on inflammatory swellings in buffaloes at MASFU to 9 days or till the inflammatory swelling subsided. After removal of poultice, the diameter of inflammatory swelling was again measured with vernier calipers. The difference in the diameter of inflammation before and after treatment was recorded and the data were analysed statistically by Students' 't' test to test the level of significance. The remaining 10 cases of inflammatory swelling were treated with iodine ointment as standard veterinary ointment and same procedure was repeated. The difference in diameter of inflammation observed in two different treatments, i.e. bhangariya poultice and iodine ointment, were compared with each other for their efficacy and analysed by Students 't' test. TANUVAS To study the effect of bhangariya (Eclipta alba) on blain in animals, 22 cases were selected for the study. These animals included 2 calves, 7 horses, 3 bullocks, 2 cows, 4 buffaloes and 4 goats. The cases were of joint swelling, yoke swelling, swelling of neck region, polyarthritis, thelitis, capped knee, saddle gall, polyarthritis without navel ill, contusion pelvis and orchitis. The inflammatory signs like rubor, callor, dollor, tumour and functionalasia were studied before the start of the treatment and periodically during the treatment. They were graded as normal, mild, moderate and severe and very severe; each grade was scored as 0, 1, 2, 3 and 4 respectively. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Results of studies conducted at MASFSU are given in Table 1 and Fig 1-5. It was observed that the difference in the diameter of inflammation before and after treatment with poultice and iodine ointment differ significantly within group analysis Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 1. Comparative efficacy of ITK and conventional veterinary drug treatment in blain cases at MASFSU Group Inflammatory swelling (cm) Before treatment After treatment Average recovery period (days) ITK treatment (n=20) Conventional veterinary drug (n=10) 13.36 16.57 3.57* 4.80* 6.8 (5-9) 5.9 (4-8) Mean values between two periods differ signifcantly (p<0.01) in both groups.