 Keywords: Benefit-Cost ratio, Entrepreneurial impact, Scientific fish-farming, Socio-economic impact Bridging the gap between science and farmer T HE Farmer FIRST Programme is built on the principle that technology should not only be advanced but also practical and tailored to the needs of local farmers. By fostering direct collaboration between scientists and farmers, the programme ensures that new technologies are tested and refined in real- world conditions. This hands-on approach allows for immediate feedback and adjustments, making sure that the solutions are effective and relevant. One of the key aspects of the programme is its focus on smallholders, landless individuals, and farm women. These groups often face significant challenges in accessing advanced agricultural resources and technologies. By targeting these communities, this programme aims to level the playing field, and provide the tools and knowledge needed to boost productivity and income. The project was successfully implemented in four villages Khordha district viz. Kantia Talasahi, Kantia Uparasahi, Jagannathpur (Block-Balianta), and Dorbanga (Block-Balipatna). It involved over 400 small and marginal farmers, including those from SC & ST categories besides women. Presently, the project is active in six additional villages viz. Barijanga, Purohitpur (Block-Balianta), Aloi, Bramhanakhandi, Taraboi, and Turintira (Block-Balipatna). It demonstrates improved technologies across various areas such as crops, horticulture, livestock, and fishery, while providing skill Indian Farming 74 (11): 38-41; November 2024 training and technical support to beneficiaries. Under horticulture module, the interventions carried out were introduction of improved variety of bitter gourd var. Rushaan, photo insensitive variety of cauliflower var. Fujiyama, bush-type French bean var. Arka Arjuna and Arka Sharatha. Similarly, under livestock module for backyard poultry, breeds like Vanaraja and RIR were being reared, composite carp culture, technology was demonstrated in the adopted villages. Fish based integrated farming system was established in 6 adopted villages for increase in income of farm household through integration of different enterprises. Capacity building and farmer-scientist collaboration A cornerstone of this programme is its emphasis Farmer-Scientist interface programme at village Aloi Indian Farming 39 November 2024 on capacity building and farmer-scientist interactions. Over the course of the programme, numerous activities have been organized, including field days, visits, and workshops. In 2023-24 alone, one field day, sixty- five field visits, and three farmer-scientist interfaces, benefiting over 1,517 farmers were organized. These interactions provide valuable learning opportunities and help to refine the technologies based on real-world feedback.