 Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 432 Reduction of pain and swelling in the joints of cattle by Puli (Tamarindus indica) The leaf paste is applied as a poultice to reduce pain and swelling in the joints of cattle (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu) ‘Puli’ (Tamarindus indica). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 433 Treatment of harna (Trypanosomiasis) 10-20 g of turmeric is grated and soaked in water. This paste is fastened over around the horns and later on bending with red hot iron rod is done (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 434 Treatment to cure swelling in udder To treat swelling in udders of dairy cows and buffaloes pulverised quartz stones are passed through a muslin cloth. After that, it is mixed with butter and smeared over the udder. It is applied twice a day and continued till the animals get-relief (Dharamapuri, Tamil Nadu). Muniapa (2000) 254 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 435 Treatment of hadda (Antinomycosis) At primary stage of formation, a milky subtance of Sehur is applied on the swelling, it checks the broadening of hadda. Failing which a semi warm decoction made of Madars’ root (Calotropis gigantia), tobacco leaves and common salt is sprinkled upon the hadda for 2-3 days. It softens the stone and later it is opened by moving a hot iron rod crossward. After pressing it is washed by using alum water. Crushed leaves of ganiyar (Premna integrifolia) are filled in it. Besides, preventing bacterial growth in wound, it facilitates healing very fast (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 436 Remedy for swollen udders Sometimes, due to wrong methods of milking or dirt on milker’s hands, the udders and teats are injured, resulting in reduction of milk, pus in the milk and swelling of the udder.Some farmers use the juice of piloodi (Salvadora prsica) leaves to cure this condition. The juice is applied on the swollen udders twice a day. The swelling disappears within two days (Junagadh, Gujarat). Dhanani (1997) 437 Treatment of sick calves by kuvech Only two or three mature and dried fruits of kuvech (Mucuna spp) are soaked in buttermilk (200-300 ml) and shaken well so that fine hair of the fruits drop into buttermilk. Fruits are removed and butter milk stirred well so hairs get mixed. It is given to the animal either in morning or evening with feeds. The calf is cured within 24 hrs of the treatment. It is an inexpensive method, its use has been widespread for long. About half of the villagers use this method of treatment. The kuvech (Mucuna spp) plant is a creeper. It bears bunches of brown fruits which have tiny hair on them. Till the fruit is green, it is painless to touch. When dry, it causes severe itching on contact with the skin (Valsad, Gujarat). Garasia (1994) 438 Treatment of Jaharbad (black quarter) Bending of red hot iron rods on the skin surrounding the swelling portion is done.