 Extract prepared in organic solvents further diluted with water was highly effective to control field pests such as Spilarctia oblique, Aphis craccivora etc. Yam bean seed extract (3%) caused high mortality of S. oryzae, Tribolium castaneum, Araecerus fasciculatus and Lasioderma serricorne. Installation and functional evaluation of pilot plant for the manufacture of liquid adhesive from cassava starch has been carried out. The plant has a capacity of 100 litres and applications of the product include carton sealing, laminated/corrugated board making, bottle and container sealing etc. The gum produced has good flow characteristics and is ready to use. A drum type feed granulator operated manually or by motor was developed with a capacity of 20 kg/hr for making granulated feed QUALITY PLANTING MATERIAL More than 30 tonnes of planting material of elephant-foot yam (Gajendra), taro, greater yam and sweet potato was supplied to State Departments, NGOs, farmers and private agencies of Karnataka, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Pondicherry, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Chattisgarh, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. Sweet potato variety Sree Arun Sree Varun sweet potato is high-yielding DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 62 for poultry/cattle. Marked variations in the major biochemical constituents were found in Colocasia under water-stress condition. Significant increases in the levels of free amino acids, free proline and soluble proteins were observed in water-stressed Colocasia leaves. Studies on the anthocyanin content of young purple coloured leaves of sweet potato at different stages of growth showed that its content and colour intensity of extracts were maximum 20 days after planting. The stability of sweet potato leaf anthocyanins in a model beverage was fairly good, with a pigment retention of 90% in the samples stored at 4°C for 20 days. Surveys conducted on demand assessment of cassava indicated that tapioca starch finds applications in a wide range of industries namely textile, corrugation box industries, paper conversion industry, liquid gums for domestic sector, paper industry etc. besides food industry especially the sago production industries. The IVLP was implemented with 616 farm families covering 6 production systems. The technology assessment and refinement showed that Uma, a paddy variety, was suited to both the seasons of kharif and rabi. This variety is getting popularity in the adopted villages. The other technological interventions namely improved paddy sickle, amaranthus as intercrop in banana, Sree Priya a white yam variety in banana plantations, vermicompost as organic manure in banana, tissue-cultured banana, ginger as intercrop in coconut, etc. have been accepted by the farmers. MUSHROOM A total of 204 wild mushroom specimens were collected from hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh in rainy season. A new species of Lysurus (Gasteromycete) was reported from Himachal Pradesh, namely Lysurus himalayansis sp., which is a new record in the world.