 Malhotra, Project Director (DKMA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012; Lasertypeset and Printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028   

Web Url-https://icar.gov.in/  Annual Report 2021-22 Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi  ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 iii Indian Agriculture has maintained a positive growth during Covid 19 pandemic, Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) are part of this journey. We have tried to help thousands of farmers and other citizens affected during pandemic. We provided advisories for their health as well as farm management. The share of agriculture and related industries in GDP hit 20% after 17 years. We are helping next generation farmers by providing technologies for precision farming and climate resilient varieties for sustainable yield. Our journey has been appreciated by the Hon’ble Prime Minister and he has emphasized that science and technology have been used on a priority basis to solve the challenges related to agriculture during last 7 years. Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated 35 crop varieties with special traits to address challenges of climate change and malnutrition. We need to further develop varieties and technologies to meet the challenges of climate change to restore agriculture and our ecosystem. For a healthy nation it is also necessary to create awareness by adopting nutritional food to fight with malnutrition. Our scientists, farmers and growers make every effort to produce safer food for a healthy India. Plant germplasm included to National Genebank for long-term storage comprised 8,622 accessions of orthodox seed species and till date it has base collection of 4,56,568 accessions. Animal germplasm repository at National Gene Bank, ICAR-NBAGR, Karnal is being strengthened by preserving diversified form of germplasm. A total of 253 varieties/hybrids including 35 special traits varieties of crops were notified and released for commercial cultivations. Under the Indigenous Breeds Project (IBP), 6,500 Kankrej and 6,219 Gir cows were registered in the native tract. Four sets of Gir (33 bulls), Kankrej (35 bulls) and Sahiwal (35 bulls) were introduced out of which 22 bulls were evaluated for their genetic worth. In fisheries, picnic seabream or black seabream (Acanthopagrus berda) has high economic and recreational values, excellent meat quality and ability to tolerate wide variations in environmental conditions. Its breeding and seed production were achieved by induced breeding using salmon-GnRH-analogue hormone.