 It also provides satellite imagery of the farm for assessing the vegetation and chlorophyll indices, and gives recommendations for taking up agronomic practices. It also provides weather information for the user and suggests the time of pesticide applications, and sends alerts regarding the probable time of infestation by the insects. This helps in taking up timely interventions by the farmers. Tumaini (https://www.tumainiaiapp.org) This AI-based app is developed by CIAT, Columbia for the identification of five major diseases and one common pest in banana. It offers solutions for the user to manage the diagnosed problems. It uses image recognition technology that is trained with more than 50,000 images. The information on the geographic location of the problem is recorded in the database to track the distribution and patterns over a period of time. It is currently used in 15 countries such as Colombia, Perú, Benin, Democratic Republic of Congo, Nigeria, Togo, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Malawi, Zambia, Angola, Tanzania, Uganda, Vietnam and India. Cashew protect (https://cashewprotect.icar.gov.in/) This is an AI-based app and website for the identification of pests and diseases of cashew along with nutrient deficiencies. It was developed at the ICAR- Directorate of Cashew Research, Puttur, Karnataka during 2022. It is a multilingual website and app – developed in 11 languages (English, Hindi, Kannada, Gujarati, Marathi, Malayalam, Tamil, Telugu, Bengali, Odiya and Garo). It will help in the identification of pests, diseases and nutrient deficiencies in crops and will be able to offer online solutions to users. The website/app as of now, detects 9 pests, 2 diseases, and 1 nutrient deficiency. Through the app, experts can be contacted for more information. Most interestingly, it is possible to capture data via users on the number and type of pests, diseases, and nutrient deficiencies observed in different countries/regions/ districts/taluks during different periods through this website/app. This will eventually help in early forecasting of these problems and alert farmers in a particular region in time. Further, it also helps to channel efforts and inputs required for management by the concerned agencies in an area/region of the country. In this app, Artificial Intelligence (AI) and computer vision-based techniques are deployed. In the backend application, PHP Laravel framework, MySQL, Windows OS, and Apache/NGINX are deployed. React Native/ Flutter is deployed in mobile phone applications. The AI machine learning system included Python, Windows OS, Tensor Flow as an AI framework, and GPU server for training. The website/app is constantly being trained with additional data and gets more accurate with time. The team behind developing this app/website included the scientists of ICAR-Directorate of Cashew Research, Puttur, and the scientists of AICRP-Cashew centres spread across the country.