 The total metal removal was appreciable in the bio filters. It was found to be 100%, 89.6%, 97.8%, 99%, 65.53%, 96.8%, 97%, and 90.64% for Al, Fe, Zn, Cu, Mn, Ni, Cr and Pb, respectively. Gravel biofilters performed most efficiently for total metal removal as compared to Graphite and FRP biofilters. Although, the effluent of all bio filters contained metals in parts per billion (ppb) quantity. Automated soil nutrient sensing system: A hydraulically operated soil sampler equipped with hollow circular core cutter was developed to decide the soil sampling depth, and a proximity sensor based depth control mechanism was also developed and integrated with the soil sampler. The sensor was used to control the sampling depth of 15 cm (adjustable as per requirement) to collect soil samples without having any physical contact. The entire soil sampling unit consists of a hydraulic cylinder, core cutter, soil scrapper, soil collector, proximity sensor, controller and other components. The hydraulic cylinder works with the help of tractor hydraulic system. The hydraulic cylinder presses the core cutter in the soil, which cuts the soil from ground and then cylinder lifts the core cutter to bring the soil sample up from the ground. A scrapper unit scraps the soil from the core cutter and places it into the soil collector. A DGPS was integrated in developed system so that the tagging of accurate location will be done for collected soil sample. Electronic nose for optimum harvesting time in apple: One of the most important needs of fruit producers is to determine optimal harvesting time to assure the correct fruit ripening stage, high nutritional value and extended post-harvesting self-life as expected by consumers. A metal oxide hybrid transducer based E-nose sensor prototype was developed to sense the ripening stages in apple. The E-nose sensor can work independently with its own display or can be integrated with any Android mobile phone using SMART-Nose app. In addition to ripening stage, this E-nose sensor can also predict sugar, protein and polyphenol contents non- invasively under post-harvest storage conditions. Genetic variability of milk protein in Indian goats: Goat milk proteome analysis identified 1,308 proteins in milk samples across 15 Indian goat breeds. These proteins are functional in 237 KEGG pathways including NOD- like receptor signaling pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, metabolic pathways, as well as disease pathways such as tuberculosis, malaria, and measles. The majority of identified proteins were localized in nucleus, cytoplasm and extracellular and involved in various biological process having transporter, binding and catalytic activities. CSN1S1 gene was also characterized in Jamunapari goats and its effect on milk composition traits was observed. Milk protein variability at protein and DNA level was carried out. The A, B and F alleles were observed in the analyzed population with the allelic frequencies of 0.4566, 0.503 and 0.