 In such cases, one of the QRT members must be an expert in agricultural extension. Review of the range of activities being performed by the same institute should be the mandate of the QRT for the institute, as it provides insights on the efforts made and success achieved in harmonizing different functions of the institute. For review of the KVKsffiCs, which are outside the ICAR system, eight QRTs, one for each zones, may be constituted. Based on the background information, the Team may purposively select one or two KVKs which are performing well and one or two not performing well from each of the type of organizations, viz., SAUs, NGOs and other institutions. The report of such QRT shall have application to the others in that category in each zone. • For the All-India Co-ordinated Research Programme related to the institute operated by the Directors of the related institute, a few additional subject-matter specialists may be added to assist the QRT in carrying out a critical review. Their report should be integrated with the final comprehensive report of the QRT for the institution. This will also hold true for the ICAR institutions, which also operate KVKs and TICs. 3 • In the case of large institutes such as deemed-to-be-universities, the QRT should be assisted by the specialist in an area where it needs such support as is decided by the Chairman of the QRT in consultation with the DDG. 3. Format/Structure of the QRT Report The Quinquennial Review Team will address in its Report all the Terms of Reference (ToR) assigned to it in a comprehensive manner. The standard procedure would be to provide for each ToR a summary of the existing position, followed by the Review Team's analysis of what it considers as the strong and weak points. The recommendations which will follow will be based on its in-depth analysis. The following outline is suggested for the Review Team' Panel's Report to facilitate its processing in the ICAR. A Introduction to the report The brief introduction would include the constitution and composition of the Review Panel, Terms of Reference and other relevant information, including dates for the Review. B The process The Panel will provide a brief account of the process followed by it in the course of the Review in a chronological order. The process will start with the first meeting(s) held in the ICAR, followed by the visit to the concerned institute and presentations and discussions held there with the Director of the institute and scientists, as well as with the other staff at various levels. The interactive nature of these discussions will be highlighted. The visits to the selected regional stations of the institute and the discussions held there will also be indicated. It is through these visits, presentations and discussions over a period of four weeks (at a stretch) that the full flavour of the review process will be communicated to the readers of the Report.