 In the same line, a trial conducted by KVK Banka in which daily production of 75 kg hydroponic maize and wheat green fodders from 52.5 sq ft tray area was recorded. On day 14, 1.89 kg maize and 1.10 kg wheat green fodder/ ft? area were harvested. The height of maize and wheat green fodders were 20-23 cm and 15-17 cm, respectively. Each kg of maize and wheat grains produced 5.7 kg and 4.4 kg fodder, respectively. The milk production of the dairy cattle was also increased by 5% and the cost of per kg milk production was reduced from %13.30 to %12.70. After feeding of hydroponic fodders, the animals became regular in heat after 2 months of parturition and most of the animals conceived in first or second oestrous cycle. An increment of net profit of ¥25.50/animal/day was recorded by the farm woman. The present case study may be a pathway for its large-scale adoption by the small holder farmers for sustainable dairy farming. Seventeen dairy farmers are following the low-cost hydroponic green fodder production and two automatic hydroponic system were installed at KVK banka and Uparama village of Banka district. SUMMARY Production of green fodder intercropping with potato, on bund of pond, mango orchard provides round the year green fodder to small and marginal farmer. Use of non-conventional green fodder was helpful in providing green fodder to marginal and landless farmers. Production of hydroponic fodder under low- cost management can be an alternative to traditional fodder production. *Corresponding author email: pragya.bhadauria@icar.gov.in March 2024 39 Indian Farming 40 March 2024 Improved agro-technique for makhana cultivation Priyanka Kumari1, Amrendra Kumar1, Anjani Kumar1, Pragya Bhadauria1* and Pushpa Kumari1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Patna, Bihar 800 014 Makhana is mainly cultivated in North Bihar, mainly Seemanchal area. It has good health benefits, many medicinal values and most common dry fruit which has low or negligible fat content, but rich in protein, carbohydrates and minerals. It is used for milk-based food preparations like kheer, pudding etc. To enhance its economic significance, standard agro-techniques such as improved varieties (viz. Sabour Makhana 1, Swarna Vaidehi), climate and cultivating system, integrated nutrient management (INM), harvesting techniques, and post-harvest packages are necessary to the farmers in order to realize potential yield and achieve better returns. The yield of improved varieties ranges from 28-30 q/ha and pop recovery from 50-55%. Keywords: Makhana, Bihar, Foxnut M AKHANA or Gorgan nut or fox nut (Euryale ferox) is a most popular, ceremonial and unique product of Eastern India particularly Bihar. It grows well in stagnant water (4-6 months duration) with water depth of 0.5 to 1.2 m and even in the shallow ponds. It is native of South-East Asia continents particularly India and China.