 Demonstrate the application of selected value addition aspects to the farm produce (sorting, grading, processing, storage for the off season use and collective marketing, etc.) at the community level. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 32 Assess the impact of introduced interventions on food and nutritional security of the community, and the systems productivity to support better decision making for scaling up and scaling out. Build capacity of all stakeholders and create a structure for sustainability of the activities and impacts. yy Capacity building of agroforestry stakeholders in SAARC involving India as technical hub (in pipeline): The objective of the project is to mainstream agroforestry and harness it full benefits through enhancing capacity development of policy makers, researchers, practitioners and the farmers of SAARC Countries. 5. Way forward ICRAF in close collaboration with ICAR and its institutes will implement the above mentioned activities subject to availability of necessary funding. The ongoing collaboration will follow a “dynamic” approach enabling partners to add /drop activities to keep the collaboration aligned with provincial/ national/ and regional priorities; and address any changing/ emerging situation. Besides working with ICAR and its institutes, need and opportunities will be examined to broaden the partnerships with DAC, State Governments, Universities, and public and private sector companies through CSR initiatives. Besides research for development, ICRAF also aims to work with banks and insurance companies to assist develop specific and highly required credit and insurance products based on scientific data and realistic socio-economic considerations to protect the interests of smallholders. Farmers’ participation in implementation of agroforestry on their field ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 33 The International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid-Tropics (ICRISAT) is a non-profit, non- political organization that conducts agricultural research for development in Asia and sub- Saharan Africa with a wide array of partners throughout the world. Covering 6.5 million square kilometres of land in 55 countries, the semi-arid tropics have over 2 billion people, and 644 million of these are the poorest of the poor. ICRISAT innovations help the dryland poor move from poverty to prosperity by harnessing markets while managing risks – a strategy called Inclusive Market-Oriented Development (lMOD). We have specialized skills on crops of immense value to the nutrition and economics of the semi-arid tropics – dryland cereals (sorghum and millets) and grain legumes (chickpea, pigeonpea and peanut). We work across the whole value chain and have science-based solutions at all stages. Our Capabilities include: yy Multidisciplinary high class science from natural resource management, genetics, bioinformatics and phenotyping to economics and social sciences.