 It is imperative to initiate strategies for collaborating with research organizations for standardizing technologies for crop improvement, value-addition, processing, and the production of secondary metabolites. Underutilized horticultural crops are predominantly cultivated and managed within traditional farming systems by diverse ethnic communities. There is a heightened need to focus on documentation of indigenous knowledge associated with underutilized horticultural crops by thorough ethnobotanical studies. KVKs have a major role to facilitate in harnessing of improved value addition technologies to create the opportunities for secondary agriculture in NER by using a significant portion of native diversity for multipurpose uses. KVKs at the micro level may take the initiative for strategic intervention through 4P partnerships involving the public, private, producer and policy for creating incentive-based improved and expanded cultivation of underutilized horticultural crops among farmers for providing multipurpose benefits to farmers. To address the escalating demand for underutilized crops in the near future, it is imperative that KVKs play a significant role to raise awareness among urban populations regarding the nutritive values of these crops and the necessity to establish a lucrative market for them. SUMMARY The Northeastern region of India is a biodiversity hotspot, housing numerous underutilized horticultural crops with high nutritional and medicinal value. These crops, often neglected, have the potential to address food challenges, contribute to food security, and create a more resilient agricultural system. KVKs can play a vital role in conserving indigenous knowledge, collaborating with research organizations, promoting cultivation, and raising awareness about the nutritive value of these crops to benefit farmers and create a profitable market. *Corresponding author email: amrutha.t@icar.gov.in FISHERIES « WY AQUACULTURE HANDBOOK OF FISHERIES AND AQUACULTURE Fisheries is a sunrise sector with varied resources and potentials. The sector engages 14 million people at the primary level and is earning over 10,000 crore annually through exports. Fish consumption has shown a continuous increasing trend assuming greater importance in the context of ‘Health Foods’. It is expected that the fish requirement by 2025 would be of the order of 16 million tonnes, of which at least 12 million tonnes would need to come from the inland sector and aquaculture is expected to provide over 10 million tonnes. The domestic market for fish and fishery products is also growing rapidly and necessary models and quality control protocols in this regard need to be developed. In 2006, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research, brought out the First Edition of ‘Handbook of Fisheries and Aquaculture’. The present revised edition comprises 42 updated and six new chapters, viz.