 In India, crop diversification is often considered a shift away from less profitable crops toward more profitable crops and from traditionally grown less remunerative crops to more remunerative crops. Due to the diverse agro-climatic conditions in the country, a large number of agricultural products are produced in country. It depends on geo- climatic, socio-economic conditions and technological development in a region. Crop diversification is intended to promote technological innovations for sustainable agriculture and enable farmers to choose crop alternatives for increased productivity and income. Crop diversification is one of the most cost-effective ways of reducing income uncertainty, particularly among poor smallholder farmers. Crop diversification’s goal is to achieve the sustainable development while also taking into account other aspects of poverty, such as gender equality, food security and nutrition, and vulnerability to climate change. Component of crop diversification Organic agriculture: It is a production system that promotes soil, ecosystem and human health. It is based on ecological processes, biodiversity and cycles that are suited to local conditions, rather than the use of harmful inputs. Green agriculture: It is an e n v i r o n m e n t a l r e j u ve n a t i o n technique that helps to reduce environmental damage while also contributing to poverty reduction a n d l o n g - t e r m a g r i c u l t u r a l development. Eco-agriculture: It is a strategy for increasing and sustaining soil productivity while minimizing environmental impact. It includes biodynamic agriculture, bio- intensive agriculture, permaculture, natural farming and holistic management. Types of agricultural diversification Temporal crop diversification A static, rule-based process to optimize crop rotations based on agronomic, economic, social, or environmental indicators. It is discussed in the following heads: Crop rotation: Cultivating two or more types of crops in consecutive Indian Farming 13 February 2023 growing seasons. Multiple cropping: Cultivating two or more than two types of crops in a single growing season. Catch crops: The practice of growing a minor crop with the main crop harvest to increase soil fertility, prevent soil erosion and weeds, pests and diseases, and preserve biodiversity in agro ecosystems. Relay cropping: The practise of sowing seeds from one crop into another standing crop in order to grow two crops simultaneously. Spatial crop diversification Spatial crop diversification can be achieved by growing different crop cultivars and species in different configurations at the same time in a given field. It is discussed in the following heads: Alley cropping: Growing arable and perennial crops in different broader strips at the same time. Bee culture: Beekeeping is an agricultural enterprise that generates additional income with commercial and non-commercial crops. Honey and wax are two economically valuable products.