 Community-based intervention on CSA can be effective in assessing communities’ vulnerability and improving their resilience to climate change. Community involvement can ease coordination and communi­ cation efforts and give way to sustainable practices (Ginoya et al., 2019; Ringler et al., 2014). Women’s collectives or SHGs can be leveraged to provide women access to agricultural inputs, credit, community participation, and markets. Several examples exist of successful agro­ forestry programs for income diversification accessed by women farmers through SHG platforms in southern and western India (Chanana-Nag and Aggarwal, 2020), along with other CSA practices. SHGs can also serve as an important platform to influence discriminatory sociocultural norms that restrict women’s voice and agency. Identifying women’s groups and providing them with training and support for leadership, negotiation, and communication skills as part of CSA policies will help create community-based leadership and advance the goal of enhanced resilience. Research suggests that women’s groups and SHGs can be highly beneficial platforms for information dissemination on CSA practices and need to be integrated into communication channels (Gumucio et al., 2019; Ringler et al., 2014). There is a growing need to revisit the definition of “farmers” under government schemes and services to ensure benefits and budgetary al­ locations reach all women farmers, regardless of land ownership and possession of land title. Kerala’s successful model, Kudambashree, has demonstrated the benefits of collective land leasing and convergence for enhancing women farmers’ access to agricultural inputs and services. Such models can be replicated in other states specifically targeting women farmers, tenants, and sharecroppers, as well as landless agri­ culture laborers. Alternative farmer registration systems need to be explored to extend government benefits to women farmers. Further, women’s participation in decision making related to climate change, particularly at the local level, needs to be encouraged as part of gender- responsive policies. Laws and local norms and practices need to be transformed to facilitate women’s access to land rights, credit facilities, and government schemes and services. Our study findings also show that constraints in accessing credit significantly affect adoption of new practices among farmers, especially those that require higher investment, and it usually takes a longer time to realize their benefits. The opportunity cost of transition is higher for smallholder farmers in such cases, so farmers with larger landholdings and better economic conditions are more likely to adopt the CSA prac­ tices, techniques, and machinery being encouraged.