 Photosynthetic Enhancement, Abiotic Stress Tolerance and Grain Nutritional Quality in Rice v. Research to enhance socio-economic wellbeing of rice stakeholders vi. Development of climate resilient rice technologies for rainfed upland, rainfed lowland and coastal ecology. 3. Salient achievements i. Rice Varieties Developed: One hundred and fifty-nine (159) ii. Patents Granted: Two iii. Developed Solar based “Alternate Energy Light Trap (AELT)”. iv. Mobile Apps developed: riceXpert; csaXpert; riceNxpert; paddyseedXpert 45 Crop Science 45 v. Developed visual diagnostic tool for identification and management of nutrient disorders and diseases in rice vi. Developed Water footprint of rice in India. vii. Extension Model developed: two (4S4R and INSPIRE1 &1) 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Quality seed production of High yielding varieties and High Protein Rice. • Capacity building programmes in Good Agricultural Practices of rice. Promising rice varieties: Bio-fortified {CR Dhan 310 (high protein 10.4%) and CR Dhan 315 (high zinc 25.0ppm)}, Climate resilient CR Dhan 801 (both for drought and submergence tolerance) and Hybrid rice (Rajalaxmi). 46 ICAR Institutes Profile 46 ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms 1. Contact details i. Postal address: ICAR-National Bureau of Agriculturally Important Microorganisms (ICAR-NBAIM), Kushmaur, Maunath Bhanjan, 275103, U.P. ii. Name of the Director (A): Dr. Harsh Vardhan Singh iii. Email/phone: director.nbaim@icar.gov.in Phone: 0547-2970726, 2970727 2. Mandate and activities • To act as the nodal Institute at national level for acquisition and management of indigenous and exotic microbial genetic resources for food and agriculture, and • To carry out related research and human resource development, for sustainable growth of agriculture. Activities • Exploration and collection, Identification, characterization, documentation, Conservation, maintenance and utilization of AIM, Microbial biodiversity and systematics, and Human Resources Development (HRD). • The Bureau has Research and Service functions. In addition extension activities are being taken up for the benefit of the farmers to propagate microbe based low cost technologies. 3. Salient achievements • The Bureau has acquired the status of International Depository Authority (IDA) by World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO), Geneva in 2020. • NAIMCC was also adopted as member of The Asian Consortium for the Conservation and Sustainable Use of Microbial Resources (ACM) in 2020.