 The average yield with application of 10 tonnes/ha FYM along with the recommended NPK (6,730 kg/ha) recorded 106% higher wheat equivalent grain yield than recommended NPK, which confirmed that the application of chemical fertilizers only is not sustainable. Commercial crops Sett priming for early and higher germination in sugarcane: Among many reasons, late (45-55 days) and poor germination (30-35%) are main reasons of low cane productivity in subtropical part of the country. Sugarcane being vegetatively propagated crop, 8-10 tonnes of canes/ha is required for its planting. This actually amounts to almost 10-15% of the cane produced from one ha of land. To minimize the requirement of cane (sett), use of ethephon or ethrel [2-chloroethylphosphonic acid (CEPA)] was found promising which not only improved the germination but also advanced the germination by 15-20 days. When 3 or 2 bud setts were soaked overnight in 100 ppm solution of ethrel, germination of setts was improved by 55-65% along with its advancement of 15 to 20 days. It helped in better tillering, leaf area index and growth of the crop. The primed setts were planted as per normal agronomical practices. With this technology, 20-25% higher cane yield over control was observed in subtropical India. The different soil enzyme activities were estimated after 43 years of rainfed soybean-wheat system with different nutrient management systems. The activities of different enzymes are collectively quantified as unit- less soil enzyme activity index (SEAI). Addition of 10 tonnes FYM/ha to recommended NPK provided 18 and 161% higher SEAI and sustainable yield index (SYI) compared to the application of recommended chemical fertilizer only. As SEAI has a very good relationship (R2 = 0.985) with SYI, hence, the former strongly influence latter, which clarified SEAI is a good indicator of SYI. The SEAI and SYI had quadratic co-relation with soil organic carbon (SOC) status of soil. It indicated that SOC plays a significant role for SEAI and ultimately sustainability of crops. Comparative wheat equivalent yield of rainfed soybean-wheat system Priming of setts with ethrel @ 100 ppm causes early and higher germination Addressing physiological barriers through ethrel and GA3 induced architectural changes in sugarcane plant and ratoon crops: Overnight sett soaking with ethrel @ 100 ppm before planting and foliar applications of GA3 at 90, 120 and 150 DAP in sugarcane plant crop (CoLk 94184) led to improvement in sett vigour, enhanced ability to sprout for establishing uniform and robust settlings rapidly, early canopy coverage, improvement in dry matter production and increased tiller numbers and their growth. The changes in leaf angle to 28-30o from 60-70o increased leaf area duration, radiation use, dry matter production and its diversion more towards internodes than leaf laminae.