 The development of new improved cultivars with higher yield and resistance to major pests and diseases are needed quickly to meet the increasing demand. In order to accelerate the breeding program, the concept of recently developed ‘Speed Breeding’ method which uses environment controlled growth chambers that can accelerate plant development for research purposes, including phenotyping of adult plant traits, mutant studies, and transformation developed in wheat and other crops offers great scope for improvement in other crops as it can reduce the generation time, shorten the breeding cycle, enabling rapid development of advanced stable lines, mapping populations, screening for identification of donor sources for trait(s),hasten backcrossing and pyramiding of traits, mutant studies and faster development of improved cultivars (Watson et al. 2018, Fiyaz et al. 2020, Wanga et al. 2021). Speed breeding increases the number of generations per year, instead of conventional breeding methods which usually take 10-15 years as only 1-2 generations could be grown per year for most of the crop species. Thus, it has the potential to reduce the time required for cultivar development, release and commercialization (Watson et al. 2018; Wanga et al. 2021). Speed breeding facilitates to grow six generations of rice, bread wheat, durum wheat, chickpea, barley, pea; four generations of Brassica species, and two generations of groundnut per year. In case of rice speed breeding through single seed descent (SSD) is a time and cost-effective breeding method where a single seed per line in a segregating population is only advanced to the next generation. These plants are then grown in the greenhouse where several generations can be completed within a short period. In India, speed breeding is still in a nascent stage and protocol standardization is undergoing in a few institutes like ICAR-IIRR, ICAR-NRRI, ICAR-IARI, and IGKV, Raipur. 4.2. Transgenics Despite having single genetically modified (GM) crop released for the cultivation, India stands fifth in the world for area under transgenics. The single GMO crop, cotton is developed by incorporating genes from the Bacillus thuringiensis. The B. thuringiensis is a soil bacterium harboring a gene found to provide resistance against Heliothis bollworm insect pests of cotton. At present, GM crops are grown globally on 190.3 Mha. However, in other parts of the world, soybean transgenics are making the highest share in the world’s total GM crop area (49.4%), followed by maize (31.3%), cotton (12.6%) and canola (5.3%) (ISAAA, 2020). The most frequently used GM traits in these crops included insect Achievements in Field Crops in Independent India 109 resistance and herbicide tolerance. In India, two GM crops Bollgard II-Roundup Ready Flex (BGII-RRF) cotton and mustard are under regulatory consideration.