 Hence, control of pests by spraying on only trap crop make easy to manage invading pests of main crop. Border crop are other crop species than primary crop sown in perimeter with the purpose of management of pests, providing isolation in seed production system, avoiding viral diseases and sun stroke during summer season in main crop. Apart from these objectives, border crop also helps to conserve soil and moisture in ecosystem. These crops should be selected based on their inflorescence system, plant height to act as physical barrier and adaptability to the region. Border crop are sown one month prior of the main crop in single row or double row system and provide extra remuneration to the farmers from economic yield and fodder for animals from vegetative parts. Advantages of trap and border crop Although trap and border crop are have different criteria for selection with main crop, but biotic stress (pests/ diseases) management is common objective in both the cases. Hence, use of trap and border crops reduces pesticide application in main crop and subsequently lowers the pesticide cost. Low pesticide application improves crop’s quality for consumption. Natural enemies attracted to these crops are leaving very impressive effect for ecosystem and environment. Also, they conserve soil moisture and pay extra to the farmers other than main crop from economic produce of trap or border crop. Examples of trap and border crop Trap crop: Trap crop planting should be done 25-30 days ahead of the main crop to attract insects through mimic flowering morphology, attractive flower colours, plant volatiles etc. Some trap crop examples are mentioned in Table 1. Border crop: Border crop are also known as barrier crop. Ideally border crop should be attractive to Indian Farming 38 November 2023 the natural enemies and non-host to the vectors but appealing for landing and probing before take -off. Border crops may act as a “sink” for viruses invading new crops. Some major virus carrying vectors like aphids loose virus stylet once landing on maize silk and therefore main crop remains protected from virus infection. Border crop has effective impact in management of pests which ultimately leads to least incidence of diseases like okra yellow vein mosaic virus, leaf curl virus in chilli, pepper veinal mottle virus etc. Sowing of border crop should be done in very close spacing or dense. It could be either single row crop (maize, arhar, sorghum) or double row crop (maize and arhar). Sweet corn can be also a suitable crop in replacement of maize to earn remunerative price from produce.