 A total of 28 dry root rot tolerant lines identified were evaluated at four hot spot locations in India, and the promising lines were shared with breeders for use in crossing programs. For establishing the national baseline for nutritional traits (protein, iron and zinc), a set of 50 released varieties of chickpea was established in collaboration with AICRP-Chickpea and ICAR- IIPR. ICRISAT together with ICAR-IIPR and other partners completed whole genome sequencing of 429 lines and identified key candidate genes (REN1, β-1, 3-glucanase and REF6) which can help crops tolerate high temperatures and provide higher yields. Furthermore, chickpea reference set was used for identification of markers associated with key nutrition traits. Large phenotypic variability was observed for 11 nutritional traits including protein content, iron, zinc, beta-carotene, phytic acid and vitamin B in the chickpea germplasm. More than 3,000 seed samples, including advanced breeding lines, trait-specific donors and segregating population were supplied to 25 chickpea breeding programs in India. Eight students are conducting research works on chickpea improvement towards the fulfilment of their Ph.D. and Master’s degrees. Seven scientists from ICAR-IARI and ICAR-IIPR were trained on the Digitalization of Breeding Programs & Data Management (BMS). The sub-project on groundnut has the following main objectives: (1)Develop and release varieties containing high oleic acid; (2) Improve resistance to diseases and diversify the genetic base for resistance; (3) Adaptation to water deficit stress and other environment constraints through characterizing target population of environments (TPEs) and water-deficit patterns in TPEs and identifying traits for adaptation to TPEs; (4) Conduct early generation testing in target sites to fix favourable allele combinations for adaptation to target zone and to new/emerging zones; and (5) Sharing knowledge, breeding materials and human resource development. The first ‘high oleic’ groundnut varieties were identified for release in India during 2019, a result of collaborative work of ICAR-DGR, SAUs and ICRISAT since 2011. A sound and fast- track breeding strategy that involved genotyping with linked markers for early generation selection, robust phenotyping using NIRS (near infrared reflectance spectroscopy), rapid generation advancement in glasshouse to increase the number of cycles per year from two to three resulted in development and commercialization of agronomically superior high oleic groundnut lines within a short span of eight years. Girnar 4 (ICGV 15083) and Girnar 5 (ICGV 15090) has ca. 80% of oleic acid content of the total fat as against normal groundnut varieties that have ca. 48% oleic acid. Over 100 new high oleic acid lines were shared with collaborators in Africa and other countries in Asia. ICAR-DGR and ICRISAT are engaging in increasing the Nucleus Seed to make it available for cultivation and further seed increase.