5% in twin and triplet both, respectively. The 90 days milk yield was 100.65 litres. The body weight is showing increasing trend over the years indicating use of superior sire for breeding purpose. The bucks selected from villages were reared in semi-intensive and intensive system of rearing. The goats reared under intensive system attained about 30.05 kg and 47.75 kg at 9 and 12 months of age, whereas, the goats in semi-intensive system attained about 21.46 kg and 25.64 kg at 12 months of age. Reproductive ability and fertility percentage of bucks varied from 66.6 to 100% in natural mating. ANIMAL GENETIC RESOURCE DIVERSITY (MISSION MODE) The DNA repository was established for the following breed/species: Garole sheep 56 Pugal sheep 34 Bengal goat 48 Jaisalmeri camel 55 Aseel poultry 38 Nicobari 36 Miri poultry 20 Bhadawari buffalo 52 Tarai buffalo 60 Kashmir Favorolla 45 l 26 micro satellite loci were analyzed in four poultry breeds (Aseel, Nicobari, Kashmir Favorolla and Miri). The polymorphic information content was very high for all the loci in all the four breeds. The four breeds have shown deviation from the Hardy- Weinberg Proportions in most of the microsatellite loci. l The genetic distances calculated revealed separate clusters using method of allele sharing for all the four breeds/sub-populations. l Dendogram analysis revealed that Nicobari and Aseel breeds are more closer to one another than Kashmir Favorolla and Miri. The dendograms, topology and phylogenetic tree were constructed using various methods. l Heterologus microsatellite were studied in goat, buffalo and camel breeds and were utilized for biodiversity analysis. PIC values, heterozygosity values were also calculated for goat and buffalo breeds. l Breed descriptors were developed for Tarai and Bhadawari buffaloes, Chegu goat and Nicobari poultry. l Survey of Bengal goat, Pugal and Garole sheep, Miri and Kashmir Favorolla breeds of poultry was completed. l General awareness about the indigenous breeds of livestock and poultry was generated among the farmers/breeders. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 99 are very closely related indicating that domestic Indian pigs have evolved from the same parent stock. Conservation and utilization of indigenous fowl: Aseel (Peela and Kagar) and Kadaknath fowls are being maintained in pure form. Third generation of grading up of Naked-Neck and Frizzle population with WL showed significant improvement in the part time egg production. Identification of genes like Silky, Bantam, V-shaped comb and Duplex comb in desi fowl for creation of gene pools of major genes and their introgression was taken up as the major challenge in this area. Characterization of Kashmir Commercial layer chicken was also undertaken for cytogenetic profiles, biochemical analysis and molecular genetic studies.