 Zacher [124] stated that the whole cycle of the CLS is separated into two stages: (1) engineering (such as conception, planning, the supply of components, assembly, commission, testing, measurements, experiments, the identification of plants, the tuning of controllers, and the simulation of control) and (2) implementation (such as control, the supervision of control, and maintenance). In addition, the engineering and the implementation are carried out in two domains: (1) the real world (the world of real devices and physical signals) and (2) the virtual world (the world of mathematical descriptions and simulation). CLS is further classified as linear control (such as linear quadratic proportional integral derivative controller, intelligent, optimal/adaptive control schemes), intelligent control (fuzzy logic-based, artificial neural network based, expert system based, genetic algorithm based, particle swarm optimization-based, and hybrid intelligent systems), and model predictive [20]. A study by Bwambale et al. [11,112] reported that linear control, intelligent control, and model predictive-based irrigation controllers are extensively used in irrigation research and various industrial applications due to their simplicity, cost-effectiveness, and extensive control algorithms. These methods can address complex, multivariate, non-linear, and time-variant issues affecting irrigation systems. Moreover, CLS algorithms can simulate human decision-making when applied to specific problem domains. Klein et al. [125] and Patil and Desai [126] reported that CLS fully automates irrigation delivery and calculates the plant’s water requirement. The operator creates a general control approach in closed-loop systems. Once the overall strategy is formulated, the control system takes over the time and frequency of water supply to plants. Previously, many research works have been published (see Section 3.2 related works) on Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 17 of 40 monitoring, controlling, and automatic irrigation integrated with CLS irrigation control principles. They used a CLS control approach, combining soil, plant, and weather variables to measure the crop’s water demand and optimize irrigation scheduling. 3.3.2. Smart Irrigation Water-Saving Monitoring Techniques (a) Climate/Weather data-based monitoring system (WBMS) Irrigation applications enable the maintenance of plant health, particularly in severe drought conditions. Nevertheless, unsustainable irrigation practices may lead to erosion and the pollution or depletion of natural resources. Furthermore, changing climate conditions determine the rate at which water evaporates and transpires from the plant and soil (ET) [127]. Plant growth, development, and water requirements mainly rely on the surrounding climate factors, especially thermal performance.