 Grades There shall be the following grades in the service with pay scales, subject to revision from time to time, as indicated against each : Grade* Pay scale Scientist (S) Rs 550-25-750-EB-30-900 Scientist 1 (S-l) Rs 700-40-900-EB-40-1100-50-1300 Scientist 2 (S-2) Rs 1100-50-1600 Scientist 3 (S-3) Rs 1500-60-1800-100-2000 7. Authorised Strength The authorised strength of the Service shall be fixed by the Controlling Authority from time to time in accordance with the provisions of these rules. The permanent strength of the Service will be based on the following principles : (1) It will be assumed that 80 per cent of the total number of positions of scientists under the Council are likely to be continued indefinitely in one form or another, and will be provided for in the permanent strength. (2) The cadre shall comprise four broad categories of scientific disciplines—agricultural sciences, animal sciences, social sciences, and technology. (3) The cadre strength will specify a maximum number for S grade and for the Grades of S-l to S-3 as a whole. (4) To ensure proper manpower planning and avoidance of imbalance, the Controlling Authority shall prescribe a cadre strength of Scientists also for each individual or group of disciplines for each Institute for a period of 5 years at a time, synchronising with Five-Year Plan periods. ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 11 (5) The Controlling Authority shall also prescribe a norm for the ratio of posts among various grades or groups of grades with a view to ensure a proper balance of manpower at various levels. 8. Controlling Authority The President assisted by a Committee known as the Committee on Agricultural Research Service shall be the Controlling Authority. The Committee will be presided over by the Director-General, I.C.A.R. and will, in addition, consist of 6 members nominated by the President, of which 3 members shall be the Secretary, I.C.A.R., the Director, I.A.R.I. and one Director of another Institute of the Council. 9. Appointing Authority The President shall be the Appointing Authority for the Service. 10. Initial Constitution of the Service (1) The Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board shall constitute a Selection Committee with the Chairman or his nominee as President with not more than three Scientists as core members and not more than three other Scientists as additional members (to be determined according to the background of the scientists to be assessed) to assess the suitability of the 'Council's Candidates' in the grades included in the cadre. (2) On receipt of recommendation of the Selection Committee, the Board shall forward its recommendation to the Secretary, I.C.A.R. (3) Council's candidates who are not absorbed in the initial constitu- tion of the Service will continue to work as at present.