 Flavor emulsions, flavour composites, essential oils and oleoresins. Unit 8: Consumer Sciences/Food Product Development/Health Foods Socio-cultural, psychological and economical consideration for food appearance, domestic and export marketing. Consumer trends and their impact on new product development. Product development viz. to conceive ideas, evaluation of ideas, developing ideas into products, test marketing and commercialization. Role of food in human nutrition. Nutritional disorders, natural contaminants and health hazards associated with foods. Diet therapy. Therapeutic / Engineered / Fabricated and Organic foods/ Nutraceutical and functional foods. 8.3 DAIRY MICROBIOLOGY Unit 1 Microflora associated with milk and milk products and their importance. Morphological, natural, physiological, spoilage and pathogenic characteristics of commonly occurring microbes in milk and milk products; Newer approaches for classification of microorganisms; types of microbes in normal and mastitic milk and importance of somatic cell counts; Food poisoning, food infections, toxi- infections and other milk borne diseases; Emerging food borne pathogens associated with milk and milk products; Epidemiological studies using DNA fingerprinting techniques like RAPD, RFLP, DGGE, TGGE, Rep-PCR, etc. Sources of microbial contamination of raw milk and their relative importance in influencing quality of milk during production, collection, transportation and storage. Microbial and chemical changes in raw milk during chilling and refrigeration. Unit 2 Bacteriological aspects of processing techniques like bactofugation, thermisation, pasteurization, sterilization, boiling. UHT, pulsed field treatment and membrane filtration of milk. Types of spoilages in heat-treated milks. Enumeration of heat resistant microbes. Germination and sporulation of bacterial spores; Prevention of post-processing contamination in heated milk. Identification of sources of contamination in heat treated milks. D, F and Z values for various microbes. Heat induced damage and repair in bacterial cells. Role of resuscitation in recovery of heat injured microbial cells; Bacteriological grading of raw and heat-treated milk. Microbiological spoilage aspects of thermally processed milks; Role of psychrotrophic, thermoduric, thermophilic bacteria and their metabolites in milk spoilage, biofilms. Unit 3 Naturally occurring preservative systems in milk like LP system, Immunoglobulins, Lysozyme, Lactoferrin, etc. Preservation of milk and milk products by physical (irradiation) and chemical agents; Food grade Biopreservatives (GRAS), Bacteriocins of lactic acid bacteria; Nisin and other antimicrobials produced by Lactic Acid Bacteria (LAB).