 A shrub 4-6 feet high is found nearly as an escape from cultivation. Its flowers are red. 165 Jatropha curcas Purging nut H-Bagbherenda The seeds possess poisonous and purgative properties, 3–5 seeds, slightly roasted and decorticated are sufficient for active catharsis. The seeds are considered anthelmintic. The juice of plant is used as a purgative and haemostatic. The leaves are considered rubfacient and lactagogue. The leaf juice is used as external appliactions for piles. It is applied for inflammation of the tongue in babies. Decoction of leaves and roots is given for diarrhoea. The root is reported to contain yellow oil with strong anthelmintic action. The root bark is used in external application for sores. Decoction of the bark is given for rheumatism and leprosy. A large shrub 3–4 m high, native of tropical America, occuring through out India and in Andaman Island. 166 Kirganelia reticulata - H-Panjuli Leaves of the plant are diuretic and cooling. The juice of the leaves is used with camphor and cubebes, for bleeding gums. It is also used in diarrhoea in infants. The fruit is astringent and useful in inflammation and in diseases of the blood. Decoction of the fruit is given to children for cough and catarrah and also for asthama. The bark has a faint sweet taste and is considered alterative, astringent and diuretic. Large straggling or sub scandent shrub, 5–15 feet high occuring through out tropical India ascending to 5000–6000 feet in Khasi and Jentia hills and in Andaman Island. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 355 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 167 Lantana aculeata Wild sage H-Raimaniya The stem is used as a tooth -brush and leaves for polishing wood. The plant is considered as vulnerary, diaphoretic carminative and anti-spasmodic. It is useful for fistulae, pustules and tumours. Decoction of plant is given in titanous, rheumatism and malaria.Decoction of leaves and fruit is used as a lotion.Fruits and infusion of leaves are taken internally for billious fever and cattarh affection. Low erect, sub-scandant shrub, 1.2–2.4 m high with stout, recurbed prickles and a strong odour of black currants, introduced into India as an ornamental and hedge plant, now completely naturalized and found through out India. 168 Lantana camara - - Dwarf types have been developed for growing in boarders and hanging baskets. It is also used for hedge and fencing. A hairy and unarmed or slightly prickly shrub, 0.3– 1.8 m or more in height, native of tropical America and cultivated as an ornamental and high plant. Its flowers are yellow, orange changing to red or scarlet. 169 Lasiosiphon eriocephalus - K-Mukute It yields fibre and has been tried as a raw-material for paper manufacture. The bark and leaves of the plant are acrid and poisonous. The bark contains a vesicant resin.