 In vitro culture: Potato is perhaps the premier example of a crop plant in which in vitro culture technology has been most extensive. The first successful establishment of tissue culture from potato tubers was reported as early as 1951. Since then, in vitro produced healthy plants, somaclones, haploids and somatic hybrids, transgenics and microtubers have been developed worldwide including India. For instance, meristem culture technique in combination with thermotherapy or chemotherapy offers production of virus-free healthy in vitro plants of potato. This method of using disease-free Role of biotechnology in potato improvement Potato is a member of the Solanaceae, a large family with more than 3,000 species. It has one of the richest genetic resources having about 200 wild and primitive species. Potato species range from diploid to hexaploid and are a rich source of genetic resources. The cultivated potato (Solanum tuberosum L., 2n = 4x = 48) is highly amenable to biotechnology. Tremendous advances and refinements in the techniques of plant biotechnology have allowed the problems of crop productivity and quality to be improved in new ways without adverse effects on desired crop traits. A brief summary of successful application of biotechnology in potato improvement is discussed in this article. Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Jagesh K Tiwari, V U Patil, Kumar N Chaurasia, S Sundaresha, Hemant Kardile, G Vanishree, Dalamu, Vinay Bhardwaj, Shashi Rawat, Tanuja Buckseth, R K Singh and S K Chakrabarti stocks combined with in vitro clonal propagation has become an integral part of seed potato production through hi-tech/aeroponics system in India. The International Potato Centre (CIP), Lima, Peru has played a leading role in development of in vitro based technologies for exchange and distribution of potato germplasm worldwide. Molecular markers: The use of molecular marker diversity analysis, marker-assisted selection, detection of mutations, marker-assisted selection and map-based cloning etc. Disease diagnostics: Potato harbours many pests and pathogens including viruses and viroids, which deteriorate seed potato tuber quality subsequently reducing yield drastically. Molecular tools for virus/viroid detection through techniques like Enzyme Linked Immunosorbent Assay (ELISA), Immuno Electron Microscopy (IEM), Immunofluorescence etc. coupled with rapid multiplication in vitro have revolutionized potato seed production programme in many countries in an unprecedented way. Genetic engineering: Genetic engineering is one of the major success stories in potato transgenic biology. A dominant resistant RB gene has been cloned from wild potato species S. bulbocastenum, which confers high durable resistance to late blight in potato worldwide and also under Indian condition.