 After that, treated seed should be incubated for 48 hours. yy Nursery bed should be of 10 m length and 1.25 m breadth with a 30 cm gap in between two beds. The length of the bed may vary according to convenience and the 30 cm gap may be utilized for draining out excess water during the period of heavy rain or for apply irrigation water during dry spell. yy In each bed of above size (10 m x 1.25 m), 20-30 kg FYM or compost, 80 g urea, 80 g SSP and 40 g MOP are to be applied and mixed well with the soil. Well germinated seeds are to be sown in the nursery bed @ 650 g to 1000 g per bed depending on the size of the seed. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 80 yy For transplanting 1 hectare area of main field, seed requirement is 40 – 45 kg. In the nursery bed, saturated condition may be maintained through rain water or irrigation water; however, 2-3 cm depth of water to be maintained at least for 2-3 days before uprooting of seedlings. yy For plant protection in the nursery bed, as soon as one or two blast spots are seen, Carbendazim @ 1 g per litre of water is to be sprayed. yy After uprooting of seedling and before transplanting in the main field, root dip treatment of seedlings with 0.02% solution of chloropyriphos (1 ml/l of water) along with 1% urea (10 g/l of water) for 3 hours may be done to protect the crop initially from stem borer, gall midge and hopper in the main field. Alternatively, carbofuran @ 3 g/sqm can also be applied in the bed 5 -7 days before uprooting. f. Fertilizer application in the main field of kharif rice yy In the main field, recommended fertilizer doses for moderate fertility level are 132 kg Urea, 125 kg SSP and 66 kg MOP per hectare for semi dwarf varieties and 44 kg Urea, 62 kg SSP and 16 kg MOP per hectare for tall varieties. If there is soil test report, then soil test based fertilizer recommendation may be followed and also in case of poor soil, the above fertilizer doses may be increased. yy For short duration varieties (100 days), half of urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and rest amount of urea to be applied at panicle initiation stage. yy In case of medium and long duration (120 -155 days) rice varieties, half of urea and whole of SSP and MOP should be applied at the time of final puddling and of the remaining quantity of urea, half at tillering stage and other half at panicle stage should be applied. yy In summer rice/early ahu rice, neck blast is a serious problem in blast endemic areas of Assam, causing chaffy grain and crop failure. Hence, during the period of early heading or late booting stage, farmers are advised to apply Tricyclazole 75 WP @ 6 g per 10 litre of water to protect the crop from neck blast disease. B. Crop advisories for other crops a. In case of sugarcane, planted during March – April, a light earthing up should be done to fill trenches/furrows within 1½ - 2 months after planting.