1%) in a multi-location study. Weeds can sometimes cause allelopathic effects on crop plants, owing to their depressive root exudates. Weeds also act as an alternate host for a variety of diseases and insect pests. The critical period of crop-weed competition for short- duration pulses like urdbean and mungbean is up to 30 days, while it is up to 60 days for long-duration crops like pigeonpea, chickpea and french bean. Effective weed control during the critical period of crop- weed competition can result in near-maximum yield. A strategy should be developed to ensure that Indian Farming 4 July 2023 weeds do not compete with pulses, or else production will be drastically reduced. are rapidly replacing other weed- management practices, mechanical methods are still required to make weed control more effective, manageable, and cost-effective. Mechanical weeding includes the use of a hand chisel (khurpi), hand hoe and wheel hoe, hand fork, finger weeder and other tools. Line sowing can help with weed control by using weeding tools. The use of a rotary hoe and cultivator can be beneficial for weed control in soybean, with approximately 70% weed control possible until the weeds reach the 1–3 leaf stage. Chemical methods: The inability of farm labourers to perform manual weeding on time necessitates the use of herbicides for season-long weed control in pulses. Furthermore, manual weeding is costly, inefficient, and cannot be performed in adverse soil and weather conditions. Pendimethalin is the most widely used herbicide in all pulse crops. Application of pendimethalin (0.5 kg/ha) as pre-emergence followed by one-hand weeding 60 days after sowing (DAS) could be an effective weed control technology in blackgram. Imazethapyr, a broad-spectrum post-emergence herbicide, has been suggested for use in kharif season pulses such as pigeonpea, urdbean and mungbean. Imazethapyr’s effectiveness in controlling grasses and broad-leaf weeds increases up to 80 g/ha, but for control of Cyperus spp., 100 g/ha is required. Post-emergence herbicides for weed control in rabi pulses should be identified and developed. Pendimethalin + imazethapyr (pre-mix) application at 0.8-1.0 kg/ha resulted in a nearly weed-free condition in greengram until 40 DAS. Herbicides such as fenoxaprop, pendimethalin and quizalofop effectively control grassy weeds, whereas post-emergence applications of fenoxaprop-p-ethyl at 50 g/ha + chlorimuron-ethyl at 4 g/ha (fenoxaprop + chlorimuron) in greengram provide optimal control of sedges and broad-leaf weeds. The use of nano-herbicides in weed control is a new strategy for addressing the problems associated with conventional herbicides. These herbicides primarily rely on biodegradable polymeric Weed infestation in soybean Weed management options To realize the yield potential of any pulse crop, effective weed management is required.