 Only one study [94] of ash-based fertilizers prepared from banana Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 18 of 24 peels was conducted, to the authors’ knowledge. A significantly small amount of ash (3.9 kg) was obtained from BPs (100 kg), which makes them an unfavourable organic fertilizer. The yield was also low compared with biochar yields [114]. The production of BP ashes could be optimized to determine the optimum synthesis conditions and find the best yield. The application method used for the organic fertilizers was observed to be significant and influential to plant growth. These include basal, top-dressing, and foliar spray applica- tions. Based on their influence, using the basal and top-dressing methods simultaneously is recommended, and, based on Figure 3, dry composite banana peels are the best method for preparing BP fertilizer. The choice of composite material can be based on the needs of the plant. Most studies reviewed overlooked essential variables such as experimental conditions, including the soil type, soil pH, germination rate, nutrient composition of the BP fertilizer, and electrical conductivity. Furthermore, banana peels from different geographical areas and varieties exhibit variations in their chemical and physical properties. Therefore, it is crucial for reports to specify the banana peel’s variety, where possible, and to detail the physicochemical properties of the banana peel used. More field experiments evaluating the yield quality are necessary to understand the effectiveness of BP fertilizers comprehensively. Using the most effective methods, the pilot-scale production and application of BP fertilizer could provide valuable insights into its scalability, practicality, and future prospects. Addi- tionally, a thorough characterization of soil types, electrical conductivity, pH, and nutrient content should be conducted to fully understand BP’s potential as a fertilizer. 5. Conclusions and Future Prospects The studies reviewed in this work included different preparation methods for organic fertilizers, namely dried peels, composite peels, ashes, and biochar. It was observed that banana peel-based fertilizers improved the growth and yield of the test crops. It was discovered that the most preferred method in the studies was the use of composite peels, namely orange and banana peels. Studies focusing on the mechanisms by which BPs enhance plant growth and the characterization of the soil and BPs used could be conducted to better understand the influence of these methods on plant growth. The mechanism at work can be assessed through active measures of plant growth, which are achieved through measuring overall photosynthesis and gas exchange parameters.