 Nanocalcium carbonate and nanocalcium phosphate prepared as calcium supplement showed 15-20% better absorption than conventional calcium supplements in camels. Maize silage was prepared in polythene bags (500 kg capacity) at an altitude of 2,800 m above msl to mitigate winter feed crisis and supplement green fodder in the form of silage to yaks. Supplementation of nano-zinc at reduced levels in diet (80-7.5 mg/kg) improved feed efficiency, reduced lipid peroxidation and improved glutathione peroxidase activity and SOD in spleen and liver in broiler chicken. In the process of clean poultry production, efficacy of synbiotics, improved feed conversion ratio (FCR), immunity, and survivability of poults than those fed either prebiotics or probiotics in growing turkey poults. Comparison of milk metabolite profile from Bos indicus cattle raised in intensive system of management with that of maintained under extensive system revealed that grazing cattle have favourable milk composition characteristics and can be assigned special value, which can become an important tool to maintain native genetic resources characterized by low production levels. Feed supplement comprising a source of energy, protein and an antimicrobial agent, increased average milk fat from 2.59 to 3.85%, and improved conception in 76% animals that had reproductive problems. The ‘Doublesynch’ and ‘Estra-doublesynch’ estrous synchronization protocols along with fixed time artificial insemination showed more than 80% success in conception rate in problematic cows and buffaloes in field conditions. Salivary fern patterns and RNAs proved new tools for estrus determination in buffaloes. Species-specific semen extender was developed for buffalo based on its sperm structure and seminal plasma composition because average post-thaw motility and fertility of frozen-thawed buffalo spermatozoa is substantially low compared to that of cattle sperm. IGF1 proved as sperm motility enhancer for developing a species- specific semen extender for buffaloes. A single semen diluent, was developed for chicken, duck, turkey and Guinea fowl, which can help in easy transportation of elite poultry semen throughout country as well as internationally by air; hence, may prove vital in maximizing the multiplication of elite germplasm. Monthly disease forewarning information about the possible occurrence of important livestock diseases was sent to DADF and other state animal husbandry departments two months in advance to take up suitable preventive measures. As per the NADRES report, foot rot, hemorrhagic septicemia (HS), black quarter (BQ), enterotoxaemia (ET), glanders and anthrax were the predominant bacterial diseases; peste des petits ruminants (PPR), capripox, bluetongue (BT), rabies and classical swine fever (CSF) were major viral diseases; and fasciolosis, amphistomosis, anaplasmosis, babesiosis, coccidiosis and trypanosomosis were frequently reported parasitic diseases from the country.