 Based on the environment assessment under the NAHEP, an Environment Management Framework (EMF) is prepared for each partner university to ‘ensure the environmental sustainability of the project interventions and to integrate the key environmental concerns in agriculture into education and research’. The EMF presents the ‘legal and regulatory framework’- a compilation of applicable acts, rules and regulations of GoI and identifies potential environmental risks and presents the mitigation measures In this background, every individual has a responsibility in protecting the environment. In order to create awareness among all the graduates of agricultural sciences, a common course on “Environmental Studies and Disaster Management” has been introduced through Fifth Deans’ Committee. It is being implemented in all the agricultural universities. The course was intended to make the students to realize the importance of Natural Resources encompassing both renewable and non-renewable resources. Mahatma Gandhi said “Sanitation is more important than independence”. He made cleanliness and sanitation an integral part of the Gandhian way of living. His dream was total sanitation for all. Cleanliness is most important for physical well-being and a healthy environment. It has bearing on public and personal hygiene. It is essential for everyone to learn about cleanliness, hygiene, sanitation and the various diseases that are caused due to poor hygienic conditions.” A few of the major activities under the NAHEP envisage faculty and student skill 149 and entrepreneurship development, imparting international outlook, leveraging infrastructure, HRD, networking and technology to enhance learning outcome, activating alumni network, involving industry in curriculum design, course evaluation and pedagogy option on pilot basis, novel revenue models, provide support for better and effective governance of agricultural universities through state of art of academic, examination and innovation management. As part of the funding by the Multi-lateral financing agencies like the WB, it is mandatory to ensure following reforms and best practices pertaining to finance, procurement, safeguards, etc. The Project Implementation Unit as part of its efforts in ensuring compliance and promoting adoption and implementation of best practices related to environment safeguards came with the idea of this clean and green campus award. A Green Campus is a place where environmentally friendly practices and education combine to promote sustainable and eco-friendly practices in the campus. The green campus concept offers an institution an opportunity to take a lead in redefining its environmental culture and developing new paradigms by creating sustainable solutions to environmental, social and economic needs of the inhabitants.