 The digging unit consist of a V-shaped blade with a width of 0.65 m to dig the crop from the soil. The blade was positioned 15° rake angle for the unearthing of onion and also had a provision for adjustment for different rake angles to operate at different depths of operations. Both sides of the digging blade, a 2 mm thick flat, were welded so that no slide or fall of the dug onions on outside the digging blade and move Fig.1. (a) Developed onion harvester with topping unit, (b) working under actual field conditions. Table 1. Specifications of onion digger with topping unit Particular Specifications Overall dimensions of machine (L×W×H), mm 1200 ×1050 × 800 Weight of machine, kg 130 Power requirement, hp 15-30 Material of construction Mild steel Width of topping and digging unit, mm 750 and 650 Field capacity (ha/h) and efficiency (%) of machine 0.20, 88.50 Operating speed, km/h 3 Fig. 2. Process flow chart of different types of onion harvesting methods. Indian Farming 27 January 2024 on the soil separation unit. The soil separation unit mainly consists of passive rollers, MS flats, pulleys and belts. The soil separation unit had a rectangular sieve-type arrangement and rotated with the help of a rayon endless belt on passive rollers in the opposite direction of travel to move onion rearward of machine; on the belt, the flats were welded in such a way to allow the onion to pass in the gap between belt, and onions move on the belt at the end. The soil separation unit has 550 mm width and 700 mm length, was made and provided with a 15° slope and also had a provision to change the slope of the conveyor to operate at varying conditions. The windrowing unit consists of two parallel sheets welded after the soil separation unit to eject the cleaned onions after the soil separation in a row to collect them easily. The power transmission system consists of gearbox, different types of cross and flat belts to transmit power to the soil separation and topping unit with a desired speed ratios. The frame of the machine had a provision for mounting the topping unit, digging unit, soil separation unit, windrowing unit and power transmission unit. It also had a three-point hitch to connect it to the tractor, and it was made of mild steel angle iron of 40×40 mm size. Merits of developed onion digger with topping unit The developed machine can perform harvesting operations in other root crops (potato, garlic and carrot) with no or other little modifications. The cut, slices and bruises during de-topping, digging, and conveying mechanisms were minimal. The developed machine can perform topping, digging, soil separation and windrowing of onions suitable for market needs in a single pass. The digging efficiency, damage percentage, and topping efficiency with the developed machine at optimum operating parameters are 94.55%, 5.10% and 80.10%, respectively. The effective field capacity of the machine at 3.0 km/h was 0.20 ha/h, with a field efficiency of 88.50%.