 The potting procedure for these type of young plants is similar to monopodial orchids, but for many sympodial orchids, such as Cattleyas, Dendrobiums, Oncidiums, etc. the new growths develop along a rhizome and usually tend to grow in the opposite direction of the old growths. The procedure for potting these is the same as for monopodial orchids except that instead of centring the plant in the pot, one should place it close to one edge of the pot, leaving room on the opposite side of the pot for the new growths. Care after repotting of orchids Re-potting is similarly shocking to plants as major surgery is to humans. So for a few weeks after re-potting a plant it is required to nurture it a bit. 1. Their leaves should be sprayed (misted) lightly twice a day for two weeks for healthy plants, up to four weeks for weak and ailing plants. The plant should be sprayed early in the day and again not later than mid-day. Plants should not be watered after 12 noon in the winter. 2. Addition of 2 or 3 drops of superthrive and 2 or 3 drops of a rooting solution to misting water will be very beneficial. If the grower do not have rooting solution, he or she may add a pinch of phosphorus rich fertilizer to the misting water. 3. The newly re-potted plants need to be placed at less light than what they usually get; for 3-4 weeks. The lower light levels will reduce the stress caused by the repotting shock and will help the plants recover better and faster. 4. Plants should be watered lightly (just enough to get the potting material moist, for one week), grower should not add enough water to run through the drainage holes, After one week, the plants will be watered thoroughly once a week. Rooting solution should be used instead of fertilizer for the first 3 or 4 watering after repotting. 5. Plants should not be fertilized just after repotting. Light requirement for growing orchids The foliage of the orchids will provide the information regarding light, whether the available light is sufficient for the plant or not or if it is too high? 1. If the leaves of the orchids stay green, crisp and firm, then the light is most probably optimum. 2. If the foliage is dark green, then the light availability is too low. 3. If the foliage shows purplish coloration, then the light is probably too high. Sometimes if the light is too high, the leaves tips will dry up. Most orchids will not tolerate direct sunlight, except maybe for an hour or two after sunrise and an hour or two before sunset. Orchids should be provided with some shade, at least for the brightest part of the day. Surrounding trees or tall buildings may provide enough shade. There is a substantial reduction in the light from summer to winter. More light and less shade should be provided at winter (from mid of October to mid of February) to compensate for this natural reduction of light.