 High-throughput phenotyping (HTP) enables rapid, precise, and non-destructive measurements of multiple plant traits. This approach relies on automation, data integration, advanced analytics, imaging platforms, and sensor technologies. Modern HTP systems are fully automated and equipped with advanced sensors, imaging devices, and computational tools for streamlined phenotyping. These platforms employ diverse imaging techniques such as 3D imaging, near-infrared spectroscopy, far- infrared imaging, fluorescence imaging, and hyperspectral imaging. Specialized HTP platforms such as LemnaTec, Phenomobile, and Phenotower are used for enhanced plant phenotyping. The choice of sensors, considering factors such as spectral and spatial resolutions and cost, is crucial for specific applications. RGB images capture three wavebands (Red, Green, and Blue), multispectral images cover several wavebands in the visible and near-infrared regions, and hyperspectral images include hundreds or thousands of continuous wavebands. Each type of sensor offers distinct features, making it essential to assess its impact on plant phenotyping. For optimal results, the use of trait-specific sensors with appropriate algorithms is recommended, as this enhances predictive accuracy and model robustness. The features of the sensors and the phenotypic traits that are studied using these sensors are presented in Table 1. Crop phenotyping techniques are pivotal for advancing crop breeding by precisely characterizing the traits that are essential for improvement. These techniques have been Typical land resources inventory (LRI) of crop suitability map in Tumkur district of Karnataka Table 1. Utility of sensors and their pros-cons Sensor type Plant trait(s) Pros Cons RGB imaging Yield, biomass, height, LAI, nitrogen, crop vigour etc. Low price, light weight, work flexibly, easy operation, easy data analysis etc. Limited imaging information Multispectral imaging (MSI) Yield, biomass, LAI, nitrogen, water content, citrus greening diseases etc. Low price, work flexibly, easy operation, easy data analysis etc. Less wavebands, no continuous spectrum information etc. Hyperspectral imaging (HIS) Biomass, height, LAI, chlorophyll, nitrogen, citrus greening diseases etc. More wavebands, more images, high resolution etc. High price, complicated operation and data analysis etc. Thermal infrared imaging (TII) Canopy temperature and water status High accuracy for stress detection Easily affected by other factors (e.g., weather) Light detection and ranging (LDR) Biomass, canopy spread, number of fruits etc. High precision horizontal and vertical information, effective in deep canopy information, feasibly work at night etc. High price, complicated data analysis etc. LAND SUITABILITY FOR MANGO Kalyanapura Micro-watershed (4B3D2E2c: Area - 486.