 However moisture retention in the soil is important since the tree cannot tolerate excessive dry summer heat and hot winds. Soils must be moderately fertile and heavy clay soils should be avoided. Hazels grow well in pH ranging from 4.5 to 8.5 but pH around 7 is ideal. Planting and manuring: Planting is usually done during winter months. Tree spacing is highly variable in the different countries, as they depend on the fertility of the soil, rainfall and variety vigour. A planting density of 860 trees/ha is recommended with rows 4 - 5 m apart and 2 - 3 m within row spacing. To ensure adequate pollination it is advisable to plant at least 10% of other varieties. Organic fertilizers like FYM should be applied at around 30 tons/ha if the soil organic matter is below 2 per cent. Where, the soil pH is around 5.5, it should be raised to 6.5 by liming but not more than 5 t/ha should be given in a single dressing. Fertilizer application to mature trees should be based on leaf and soil analysis. The fertilizer recommendations for hazelnut is 120 to 150 kg/ha of N, 60 to 70 kg/ha P and 100 kg/ha of K. Harvest and yield: When nuts change from green to brown and the abscission starts, it is the best time of harvesting. The nut falls out of the husk when ripe, about seven to eight months after pollination. Nuts are harvested annually in mid-autumn. As autumn comes to a close, the trees drop their nuts and leaves. Most commercial growers wait for the nuts to drop on their own, rather than use equipment to shake them from the tree. Hazelnut trees reach maximum production between fifteen and twenty years. A five year plant yields on an average 2–2.5 kg nuts per year. The kernel of the seed is edible and used raw or roasted or ground into a paste. The seed has a thin, dark brown skin, which is sometimes removed before cooking. Hazelnuts are used in confectionery to make praline and also used in combination with chocolate. Hazelnut oil, pressed from hazelnuts, is strongly flavored and used as cooking oil. Economics of cultivation: Production costs vary greatly depending on the growing site and the management practices used. Assuming a wholesale price of `200-300/kg. for large size hazelnuts, the gross return to growers would be `125000/ acre per year. The yield at full commercial maturity, 2.5-3.5 kg of nuts per tree, would project positive cash flow 10 to 15 years after planting if land costs are not too high. The length of productive commercial life of trees can be over 100 years. Net income and benefit: cost ratio of a crop is a deciding factor for its adaptation by the farmers for its commercial production. The benefit: cost ratio of hazelnut was recorded under commercial production 3.96:1. For further interaction, please write to: Dr R K Singh (Professor), College of Horticulture, Banda University of Agriculture and Technology, Banda, Uttar Pradesh 210 001. *Corresponding author: singhrknbpgr@gmail.com Edible hazelnut on removing husk and shell Table 2.