 [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.2: Requirement of Experiential learning programmes with perspective Similarly, the universities may also submit proposals for establishing at least one Experiential Learning Unit per constituent college out of the modules identified by the task force. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 8.3- 8.4 The following points were raised and duly noted. Agenda 8.3: Enhancement of CDA related grants etc. Agenda 8.4: Enhancement of contingency grants for research works for the UG, PG & Ph.D. students Agenda 8.5: Equivalence of PG Degree in Dairy Economics and Dairy Extension Education to PG degree in Agricultural Economics and Agricultural Extension Education, respectively It was felt that the matter of equivalence may be dealt by the IAUA. Regarding integrated M.Sc. (Ag.) degree programmes at KAU, Thrissur, and equivalence of PG Degrees a Standing Committee comprising the following was constituted: Dr. K. M. Bujarbaruah, VC, AAU, Jorhat Convener D. S.S. Chahal, VC, MPUAT, Udaipur Dr. S .N. Puri, VC, CAU, Imphal Dr. Tej Pratap, VC, SKUAST-K, Srinagar Dr. Dhiman, Dr. YSPUHF, Solan The committee may submit its report by June, 2012 [Action: VC, AAU, Jorhat] Agenda 9: From the AUs Agenda 9.1: Capacity building of faculty The capacity building of faculty at the entry level and on periodically continuous basis through training in need based cutting edge areas both in India and abroad was raised by the few universities. There was also suggestion to have a faculty training cell/centre in each university. Agenda 9.2: Capacity building of students: Some ideas It was suggested that there should be opportunity for bright students for short term training and sandwich programmes at the inter university level involving both national and foreign universities. Similarly, there could be short term industry exposure as internship for the students. It was informed that such a provision is already made under NAEP. Agenda 9.3: Making Agricultural Education Attractive for Rural Students The PAU model of “Catch them Young” for the six year degree programme immediate after the metric exam was highlighted as a success in catching more rural students. Agenda 9.4: Issues related to international students It was informed by the Additional Secretary, DARE that the matter has already been taken care of. Efforts are being made to absorb the tuition fee of such students from the bench fee. Agenda 9.5: Issues related to examination and evaluation The Committee was constituted to look into the matter. Agenda 9.6: Centres of Excellence in various areas Some universities suggested for the establishment of Centers of Excellence in certain strategic areas. It was informed that under R&D Policy for Agriculture, these points have been taken care of. For veterinary medicine IAUA was requested to look into the matter. Agenda 9.7- 9.11 The following agenda items were raised and duly noted. Agenda 9.7: Benchmark standards for Departments/ Colleges Agenda 9.