 The Interior of the Central Repository of Seed Banks in Chitrakoot Gaivinath Seed Bank in Satna district (MP) Underutilized fruit trees conservation and utilization In this activity, 16 species of Neglected and Underutilized Speceis (NUS) 60 varieties in 200 families was conserved in a genetic garden. Currently, 102 varieties of 74 species belonging to 47 genera of 26 families have been collected and planted in the ex-situ Genetic Diversity Park (Bioversity International Bengaluru project office). Along with this, a book entitled “Know the less known fruits of tropical & sub-tropical regions” is being published for increasing awareness and understanding for utilisation and conservation of these neglected and underutilized species/ crops. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 15 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from nares i) Mainstreaming agrobiodiversity conservation and utilization in agricultural sector to ensure ecosystem services and reduce vulnerability. This is a UNEP – GEF funded project and jointly implemented by ICAR and Bioversity International. ii) Exchange of PGR: Oil palm Network and its activities iii) Management and mitigation of Tropical Race 4 of Fusarium in banana iv) Facilitation of germplasm import of the selected crops (wild species of cotton, winter wheat, temperate fruits, trait specific soybean, cocoa, oil palm, olive, and other identified species). v) Developing protocols for cryopreservation and regeneration with human resource development and establishing mother clone orchards. vi) Exploration, collection, ex-situ conservation, evaluation, chemical profiling of Neglected and Underutilized Species (NUS) of promising fruits, vegetables, root and tuber crops and the wild relatives of crop plants from all the important phytogeographical areas including A&N Islands. Jack and other potential fruits species, drought resistant legumes and vegetables shall also be included. vii) Establishment of Community Germplasm Banks in association with custodian farmers. viii) Studies on ecosystem services (including the direct and indirect services of pollinators, natural enemies of pests, soil arthropods etc.) and their economic valuation. 5. Way forward yy Development of Agro-biodiversity Index and Sustainability Index. yy Implementation of two new projects with ICAR on Ecosystem services in mango and biodiversity studies in jack fruit. yy Establishment of Community Seed Banks in India. We plan to organize about 10 Community Seed Banks in India by the end of December 2017 in four agro-ecological zones of India. Expansion of the seed bank system to conservation of seeds of Crop Wild Relatives (CWR). Genetic Garden at Bengaluru office of Bioversity International ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 16 yy Expansion of Seed for Needs programme including pulses, oilseeds and horticulture crops for climate change adaptation.