 (2000) 296 Medicinal importance of kachra (Capparis aphylla, Capparis decisdua) Plant root, bark and fruits of kachra (Capparis aphylla, Capparis decisdua) are the useful parts which contain beta sitosterol, capric acid, glucocapparin, alkaloid, namely L- stachydrine. Root bark acts as astringent and alterative and cures rheumatism, gout, cough, dropsy and palcy. Plant acts as stimulat laxative, counter irritant and heals boils, cures eruptions, joint diseases and used as antidote to poison. Parabia et al. (2000) 297 Medicinal value of lemon grass Essential oil contained in the plant is the important parts used for curing diarrhoea, colic, flatulence, fever, catarrh, gastric irritability. Parabia et al. (2000) 298 Medicinal uses of Canna indica Rhizome and fruit, essential parts contain alkaloids, fats, gum and starch. Fruit acts as diuretic diaphoretic and demilucent. Seed juice relieves earache cures fever dropsy, dyspepsia. Its stock is cut into pieces boiled with rice water and given as antidote to poisonous effects produced by eating poisonous grasses. Parabia et al. (2000) 233 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 299 Medicinal properties of pigeonpea Seed and leaf are essentially used owing to the presence of globulins cajanin, caneajanin, nitrogenous matter and carbohydrates. Seed is used against snake bite, Its poultice reduce swelling. Leaf juice with salt cures jaundice and leaf and seed paste applied over mammae to check milk secretion. Parabia et al. (2000) 300 Meicinal importance of Krishna chura Leaf, bark and flower are the medicinally important parts. Fresh leaves in post-seeding stage contain hydrocyannic acid that acts as stimulant, emmenagogue and purgative. Bark acts as emmenagogue, abortifacient. Flowers aids in healing bronchitis, ashthma and malaria. Parabia et al. (2000) 301 Cinnamomum cassia, C.aromaticum, C.sinense- medicinal user Stembark of dalchini (Cinnamomum cassia) used as antispasmodic, aromatic, stimulant, haemostatic, astrigent, antiseptic, stomachic, germicide oil is used as astringent, vascular nervine stimulant, aromatic and also used for dyspepsia, flatulence, diarrhoea, vomiting, toothache, paralysis of tongue. Parabia et al. (2000) 302 Medicinal use of caronda (Carissa carandas) Fruit, stembark, leaf and root are important parts fruit acts as antiscorbutic, stomachic, refrigerant and digestive. Root is used as antihelmenthic and commonly used in curing fever. Parabia et al. (2000) 303 Medicinal uses of Aloe vera Useful parts of Aloe vera are pulp, root, dried juice of leaf and the entire plant.Acts as emmenogogue, anthelmentic, purgative, stomachic, acts against constipation, cough, nervous diseases, colics, burns, scalds,dyspepsia, menorhoea. It improves fertility. Parabia et al. (2000) 304 Medicinal use of centenary plant Roots, seed, gum of barakhawar (Agave americana) principal parts used for medicine.