 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3343 Treatment of urine problem in animals with palash flowers 3344 Use of bhindi roots for oligouria and blocked urination in cow trait for the animals as they fetch lower price in the market. To overcome this deficiency, cattle owners rub common salt on the tongue of the animals. This practice is continued up to 15 days. It is an old practice. Keywords: sodium, lower price, salt, tongue For the treatment of urine problem in animals, people of village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. A paste of 100- 150 g palash (Butea monosperma) flowers is prepared and given orally twice daily to the animal. Urine problem is cured in a few days. Keywords: urine problem, palash flower, paste The roots of bhindi [Abelmoschus esculentus (L.) Moench] are taken and juice is extracted. The juice extract is given orally, a dosage of about 100 ml, twice a day. Keywords: bhindi, oligouria, blocked urination and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Mohan Swarup, S/o Shri Roshan Lai, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Nepali community, North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3345 Treatment for blocking of urinary tract in cattle by using bark of jamun 3346 Use of elephant dung for treatment of urine problem in animals Cows and buffaloes, especially bullocks, suffer from stones in urinary bladder. For the treatment of blocked urinary tract, the villagers of Junagadh district in Gujarat collect the green bark of jamun tree (Syzygium cuminii), crush it and take out extract. The prepared extract is mixed with fodder and given to the animal twice daily (in the morning and in the evening) for 3 days. This gives relief to the animal. Keywords: jamun, urinary tract The people of village Rajupur in block Devchara of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this practice. About 100-200 g elephant dung is burnt and Shri Mansukhbhai Shyamjibhai Savaliya, Junagadh (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Radhe Shyam, S/o Shri Makku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3347 Cure of blood in urine with tulsi flowers in cattle 3348 Treatment of blood secretion in urine of cattle by using green leaves of sisam (Dalbergia sissoo) its smoke is given to the affected animal twice daily. After 6-8 hr this problem is cured. Keywords: elephant dung, smoke, urine problem When there is problem of blood in urine of animals, it may prove fatal and affect productivity.