 Fisheries (Capture): The constraints in capture fisheries : Š Š Habitat destruction of fish fauna: Habitat destruction of fish fauna due to unscientific and indiscriminate sand mining operations, encroachment of river banks for agricultural purposes and drying up of water bodies due to excessive harvesting of water for irrigation and drinking purpose. Irregular river beds arising from heavy sand mining causes drowning hazards, difficulties in navigation & use of throw gears in addition to erosion of the banks. Encroachment of river banks for agriculture poses the additional risk of pollution and fish kills due to run off. 553 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Š Š Genetic deterioration of the stocks due to overfishing: Fishing ban is in vogue for two months (July and August) in large water bodies to avoid harvesting of gravid brooders and to assist in natural recruitment of the fishing stock. However, fishing using non-selective gears such as seines and gill nets are rampant during all other months. This results in the overfishing of faster growing individuals that should contribute to the brooder population. As a result, any natural recruitment in the reservoirs arise from the early maturing brooders with slow growth attributes. Over time this would result in the deterioration of the genetic quality of the population as a result of negative selection and contribute to low productivity. Š Š Unscientific ranching protocols: Ranching of hatchery produced fingerlings have been resorted to in an attempt to enhance the productivity of the reservoirs from 2002. It is estimated that 218 lakh seeds were stocked in the reservoirs from 2002- 2012. However the productivity data for the same period indicates that the production trends for major carps from the reservoir was largely stagnant. On the contrary the abundance of smaller species have increased significantly during this period. This strongly suggests that the ranching program, has not contributed significantly to the supplementation of the major carp population in the reservoirs. It is unclear if scientific studies to assess the ecological status of the reservoir was undertaken before the stock supplementation measures were adopted. Ranching programs should be based on the strong foundations of ecological and population genetic backgrounds of the recipient water bodies. Importantly, individuals rising from domesticated broodstock are known to be less capable of adapting to and establishing within natural systems. Š Š Shellfish resources have been scientifically less explored in this state despite their significant contribution to the food sector here. Biodiversity surveys mention the a few crustaceans and mollusc species encountered in Tripura waters though detailed studies on systematics, biology and productivity attributes are scanty. Assessment and evaluation of finfish and shellfish resources which are economically important to the region should be encourages.