 Organic food production using IOFS approach resulted in saving of costs on account of purchased nutrients, better recycling, safe food and balanced nutrition to the family besides eco-friendly agriculture giving higher returns for the marginal and small farmers in the region. Considering the benefits from the IOFS model with a net return of Rs. 73,005/- per year from 0.43 ha. IOFS gives better family nutrition besides round the year income to the farmers in the region. The organic outlet established in the national highway has linked the farmers to the market. 8.2. Sikkim (First organic State in India) Agriculture in Sikkim generally was practiced under low input situations (nutrient consumption of <25 kg ha-1). Keeping these in mind, the Government of Sikkim declared in 2003 to transform Sikkim in to totally “Organic State” by 2015. The productivity of all the food grain crops has shown increase after the steps were taken to promote organic farming in the state from 2003 onwards. The productivity of pulses increased from 878 kg ha-1 to 954 kg ha-1 over time. The productivity of the food grains rose by 19.73% during 1995-96 to 2017-18. Productivity of rice was only 1.43 t ha-1 when fertilizer consumption was highest (21.5 kg/ha) during 2002-03 95 (before Sikkim Organic Mission), but during 2013-14, rice productivity increased to 1.81 t ha-1, and no yield reduction was observed during initial 3 years which are considered as conversion period. Productivity of other crops is also increased to the tune of 11%, 17% and 24% in maize, finger millet and buckwheat, respectively. Study involving sample households in three districts of Sikkim viz., East Sikkim, West Sikkim and South Sikkim indicates farmers uses local cultivars for all the crops except some Cole and other vegetable crops which is one of the major principles of Gandhiji under Gram Swaraj. The input used is FYM @ 9.57 t ha-1 in case of cereals like maize and @ 15 t ha-1 for ginger. Phytoneem (neem extracts) and pheromones traps are used for plant protection. Improving the productivity of crops in Sikkim through Scientific approach: Scientific packages developed for organic farming in different crops needs to be promoted among the farmers by State agencies as these have potential to improve the productivity and income of the farmers. Rice, maize, soybean, ginger, turmeric and large cardamom yield can be enhanced significantly through adoption of scientific method of organic farming which have been demonstrated in the villages using cluster approach by Regional centre of ICAR-Research Complex for North Eastern Region, Gangtok and also under All India Network Programme on Organic Farming (Table 2). Table 2. Yield of major crops in Sikkim at on-station, ICAR demonstration plot in comparison with State and National productivity.