 Salient achievements • The Institute has contributed enormously in production, supply and use of high genetic merit bulls for breeding purpose. 455 high genetic merit bulls have been supplied in a decade to different agencies. • Produced 10 clone buffaloes of elite buffalo bulls of which 7 are donating semen. Twenty thousand semen doses have been produced from cloned bulls. Produced more than 60 progenies using cloned bulls’ semen. • At CIRB in the last 25 years the annual increase in standard lactation milk yield was 2.5%. It increased to 2867 kg in 2021-22 from 2291 kg in 2013-14. • A Protocol to lower the sperm number from conventional 20 million to 12 million per dose of frozen semen for artificial insemination has been developed. This will be helpful in increasing semen doses without affecting conception rate. • Development of pregnancy diagnostic kit ‘Preg-D’ a urine based technique for pregnancy diagnosis in buffaloes and cattle. • Composite feed developed which reduced methane production by 30% with increase of milk and growth. • ICAR-CIRB Semen Freezing Lab got accredited by DADF, Govt. of India. • One pregnancy established using OPU-IVF technology in buffaloes • Establishment of cryo-bank of primary somatic cells of elite buffaloes. • 4647 stakeholders were trained regarding scientific management of buffaloes in last 5 years. • A handy and portable ‘Field Microscope’ for the evaluation of sperm motility in field condition 130 ICAR Institutes Profile 130 • Modified artificial vagina with temperature sensor • Area specific mineral mixture • Egg yolk free semen extender • Noninvasive technology of infra-red thermal imaging as a potential tool for assessing udder health and mastitis diagnosis and management • Pregnancy diagnosis kit ‘Preg-D’ which is a urine based novel technique for pregnancy diagnosis in buffaloes and cattle. 131 Animal Sciences 131 ICAR-Directorate of Poultry Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-Directgorate of Poultry Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana-500030 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. R.N. Chatterjee iii. Email address: Director.dpr@icar.gov.in Phone No. 040-24015651 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and applied research to enhance productivity of poultry • Development of new germ plasm for rural poultry husbandry • Capacity building. Activities • The Institute is actively involved in improving pure bred chicken and duck breeds/lines and developing high yielding chicken varieties employing both conventional and advanced scientific breeding tools for both backyard and intensive poultry farming in the country. The Institute is engaged in basic research in poultry and also developing package of practices and management tools utilizing locally available resources and value addition to the poultry produces for maximizing profits for the farmers as well as poultry Industry. 3.