 Other standard sizes of trays such as 104 cm × 104 cm × 18 cm, 135 cm × 135 cm × 18 cm, 74 cm × 135 cm × 18 cm are also available in the market. The seed trays should be clean, washed with a cleaning solution and are free from any dust/dirt. After the germination of seeds, trays are transferred and put in the sprout section (a lower section where the height between two rows is around 5 inches). Finally, trays should be distributed evenly on both sides of the alley. Watering and shifting trays: The germinated seeds are irrigated with fresh tap water or nutrient-enriched solution. The trays should never be exposed to direct sunlight, strong wind and heavy rain. During the growing period, kept the seeds moist by drip or spray irrigation but not saturated. In hot weather conditions, water should be given after every 2 hours and in cold weather conditions after every 4 hours. Shift trays to the next level daily so that it moves one step ahead in the growth cycle. The sprouted seeds in trays should not be disturbed until they are harvested otherwise their growth will be affected. Washing and soaking (12 hrs) of maize seeds Source: http://vadic.vigyanashram.blog/wp-content/uploads/2019/03/day-7-1024 x 577.jpg Fodder trays place in hydroponic unit system Source: https://www.hydroponicsafrica.org/ wp-content/uploads/2020/10/Fooder.jpg Indian Farming 4 February 2023 Harvesting and feeding: After 7–8 days, the fodder mat is harvested from the tray and fed to the livestock. Before feeding, the fodder mat should be divided into small pieces so that the animals can consume it easily. Hydroponic fodder can be fed to dairy animals by mixing it with other dry roughage. As per one study, feeding of 5–10 kg of hydroponic fodder daily to dairy cows increased milk production by 8–13%, because of its palatability and enhanced digestibility. In other study conducted at the Anantapur district of Andhra Pradesh, the cows were fed with 18 kg hydroponically grown maize fodder along with 7 kg jowar straw every day. The results indicated that there was an increase of 7.51% in milk yield with an additional net income of `35 per day. It also reduced the requirement for concentrates thus lowering the cost of milk production. Nutritive value Sprouting catabolizes starch into soluble sugar during the biochemical processing of plants. As a result, the starch content, organic matter and dry matter content decreases. However, as the plant grows the ether extract of hydroponic fodder increases due to the increment of structural lipids and chlorophyll (Table 1). There is also an increment in concentration with sprouting. The development of structural carbohydrates increases the concentration of crude fibre (CF), neutral detergent fibre (NDF), acid detergent fibres (ADF), and linoleic acid but decreases nitrogen- free extract (NFE). The sprouting process increases total ash content associated with the decrement of organic matter.