 When the climatic conditions are favourable the cladding material may be removed. These are mainly used for raising nursery or for early cucurbit production, e.g. muskmelon and watermelon. Off-season cultivation of cucurbits under low plastic tunnels is one of the most promising technologies under the northern plains of India. Net houses: Depending upon the cladding (covering) material used, the net houses may be categorized as either insect-proof net houses or shade net houses. Shade net houses are used for raising vegetables during peak summer months (April to June) to protect the crops against high temperature and radiation. These structures have flat top design and are of 3 m height. It is covered with shading net of suitable shading capacity (35-90% shade) and colour depending on the crop requirement. Leafy vegetables (such as coriander, spinach and mint) can successfully be raised during April to July with 40-60% shading intensity. Likewise, chilli/capsicum can be grown from February to June with 30-40% shading intensity. An insect-proof net house is covered with UV-stabilised insect-proof net of 40–50 mesh for effective restriction on entry of insect- pests in polyhouses. Both nursery raising and quality are Bountiful production of tomato under protected cultivation Nursery raising and cucurbits production in plastic low tunnels Indian Horticulture 42 possible under these net houses with proper selection of varieties without application of synthetic pesticides in their production. Rain shelters: Tomato production is difficult during the hot-wet season in tropical and subtropical climates. Rain shelters protect tomato plants against the impact of heavy rainfall and can reduce disease spread. The shelters are generally used in conjunction with raised plant beds to minimize flooding damage and water logging. Production system for vegetable crops under protected cultivation Geoponics or soil system: In this system, crops are grown in natural soil under protected cultivation. It has some demerits such as more disease and pest incidence in soil. However, by far it is predominantly adopted cultivation system. Soilless cultivation: In recent decades, use of the soilless cultivation method has increased significantly due to the use of methyl bromide as a soil disinfectant between crop cycles. New types of substrates are increasing in the same way with the objective of increasing yield and quality with respect to the plants grown in the soil. Several types of substrates (like coconut fibre, perlite, vermiculite, rock wool, peanut hulls, rice hulls and coco peat, etc.) are used as soilless media and it protects the crops from different soil infections. The solid materials of soilless growing media (hydroponics and aeroponics) alone or in mixtures may provide superior environment for plants in comparison to agricultural soil.