 Targeted editing of potato genome to develop variety specific True Potato Seed (TPS): The potato homologues of three MiMe and CENH3 genes namely StOSD1, StRec8, StSPO11 and StCENH3 were identified using Plasmid microinjection of zygote In-vivo derived microinjected blastocysts of sheep In-vitro derived embryos of goats Production of MSTN KO cloned embryos of buffalo Generated embryos HMC Donor cells Bi-allelic MSTN KO cells Oocyte (slaughter house) Enucleation (Removal of nucleus) Produced MSTN KO cloned blastocysts Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 12 Identifying the genomic regions and genes for drought and heat tolerance in groundnut: In order to identify the genomic regions for drought and heat tolerance in groundnut, eight parents and 500 lines of the MAGIC population, 432 RILs of TMV2 × TMV2-NLM and 250 RILs of JL 24 × 55-437 were subjected for DNA sequencing. The linkage map constructed with 700 SNP markers could identify major main effect QTLs for pod yield with the highest PVE of 10.5%. Nine QTLs with the highest PVE of 18.4% were identified for shoot dry weight (SDW). A few of them were involved in epistatic interactions, and formed multiple QTL mapping models. Five major QTLs for SDW were found to be stable over both the locations. The candidate genes with SNPs and AhMITE1 insertion were identified for the major QTL regions. Map was also constructed using 478 SNPs for the RIL population of JL 24 × 55-437. Forty-five major main effect QTLs were identified for 21 traits. Three QTL clusters (Cluster-1-Ah03, Cluster- 2-Ah12, and Cluster-3-Ah20) harboured more than half of the major QTLs for target traits, explaining as high as 38.6%, 44.6%, and 49.5% of PVE, respectively. The candidate genes encoding heat shock protein, heat shock transcription factors, and flowering regulation genes were identified at QTL clusters. The population structure analysis identified four subgroups. Seven significant marker-trait associations for five traits were identified in 374 kb (carrying 348 genes) genomic region on chromosome Ah18. CRISPR/CAS9 guided functional analysis of genes regulating early embryonic survival in buffalo: Early embryonic mortality is a major impediment hampering the reproductive efficiency and accounts for a main component of post fertilization losses in buffalo. Prostaglandins (PGs) are the crucial regulators of implantation, decidualization, embryo development and survival in ruminants. Targeted genome editing by CRISPR/CAS9 technology has emerged as novel approach to modify endogenous genes in various cell types. In-vitro over-expression studies, PTGES and PTGFS coding sequences (462 bp PTGES and 972 bp PTGFS) were cloned in CT-GFP Fusion vector followed by sequence confirmation of the clones. Cloning of two sgRNAs against COX- 2 gene into CRISPR/Cas9 expression vector (PX459) was confirmed by sequencing. The CENH3 mutant lines were used as a female parent to cross with wild-type K.