 Further, 79 persons from different ICAR institutes were deputed to attend 71 capacity building programmes organized by 36 different national/ international organizations. Technology transfer/commercialization: ICAR institutes (43) finalized 526 partnership agreements with 373 public and private organizations for 183 technologies of agriculture and its allied fields, viz. animal production and processes (11); crop production technologies (16); farm machines and tools (24); fish farming and processes (17); food processing and value addition (63); plant protection measures (18); seed and planting material (32); and others (2). Out of 183 technologies 40 were protected by filing patents/ copyrights/trademarks/plant varieties etc. Professional services: Twenty-three ICAR institutes finalized 111 consultancy/contract research and service partnership agreements with 89 public and private organizations. Agri-business incubation: This initiative addresses the much-needed requirements of business incubation for converting agriculture technologies into an attractive commercial proposition. In various institutes 25 ABI centres were supported/ established; and 25 new ABIs were sanctioned, taking the total strength of ABIs in ICAR network to 50. These ABIs facilitated the business environment in the ICAR institutes, which include, Agri-entrepreneurs/Incubators admitted for incubation (207); Agri-entrepreneurs/Incubators graduated (91); Entrepreneur Development Programme (EDPs) organized (86); and Agri-business Development/ Awareness Programmes organized (290). PROGRESSIVE USE OF HINDI Individual orders were issued by the Secretary, ICAR in respect of officers/employees of the council possessing proficiency in Hindi to do their cent per cent administrative work in Hindi. During the period under report 14 ICAR institutes/centres were notified in the Gazette under Official Language Rule 10(4). Till date, 141, ICAR institutes/centres have been notified in the Gazette. Four meetings of the Joint Official Language Implementation Committee of DARE and ICAR were held under the chairmanship of Special Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR. In most of the ICAR institutes/centres Official Language Implementation Committees were constituted and their meetings were conducted regularly and proceedings received at the headquarters were reviewed regularly. Appropriate suggestions and guidelines were given to the concerned institutes for taking remedial measures. The quarterly progress reports were sent on-line to the Regional Implementation Office. The quarterly progress reports received from various Institutes were reviewed and suggestions were given to them for effective implementation. ICAR headquarters is participating regularly in TOLIC’s meetings. The employees were nominated regularly for Hindi language, Hindi typing and shorthand training in every session. At headquarters, training in Unicode typing was imparted by the Hindi Anubhag.