 Our Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narender Modi said“ I see technology as a means to empower and as a tool that bridges the distance between hope and opportunity”. Key takeaway To contain hunger, we need lab-field and market interlinkages. 14 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY AND INNOVATION FOR TRANSFORMING AGRICULTURE IN INDIA R.B. Singh Globally, science, technology and innovation (STI) continuum has been the main driver of agricultural growth, development and transformation of national socio-economic, agro-eco- logical and environmental security and is evolving dynamically to meet fast- changing development goals. In the midst of the unprecedented COVID-19 pandemic, the world is challenged to meet new and emerging health and nutrition demands along with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals Agenda 2030. In this scenario, an effective STI system would be needed to disruptively transform Agriculture-Food Systems to achieve veritable goals, “leaving no one behind”, especially youth and women. The foremost challenge for the STI is the increased number of hungry and Prof. R.B. Singh, Former Chancellor, Central Agricultural University, Imphal, is a versatile leader. He has played a vital role in national, continental and global capacities in improving agrarian livelihood, food, nutrition and ecological security, in cutting-edge research and technology development, in higher education and human resource development and in policy and programme formulation, execution and appraisal. 15 Sustainable Agriculture malnourished people in India and other agriculturally important developing countries. One-third of the humanity is malnourished and nearly one-fourth of the world’s children are stunted, annually costing about 6-10 per cent of GDP. India represent, nearly one fourth of hungry, one third stunted and half of wasted children of the world. The situation in India is highly asym- metrical, paradoxical and enigmatic. Along with the above glaring deprivation, in India, STI-led Rainbow Revolution has transformed the country from ‘ship-to- mouth status to the ‘Right-to-Food Bill’ situation with formidable food-grain export and buffer stocking, making it the second largest agrarian economy in the world. Accounting for 18 per cent of world’s population, with only 2.3 per cent of world’s land and less than 4 per cent of global freshwater, the country’s STI effort are geared to be accelerated to produce More from Less for More without further damaging agro-ecological system and accentuating the water and carbon footprints.