 Proper hygienic conditions help to avoid bacterial, viral, and parasitic infections and related illnesses in animals. It is, therefore, of utmost importance that animals must be accommodated under most hygienic conditions. Shelter sanitation protocol The objective of sanitation is to properly clean and remove most of the germs and parasites along with dirt from animal houses so that remaining germs are less in number and possibly in a weak condition so as to be harmless under ordinary conditions. The presence of dung, urine, spilled milk, uterine and nasal discharge, feed residues etc. cause sanitation problems. Proper cleaning removes most of the germs and parasites along with the dirt. Abundant supply of water under pressure is the easiest and most effective means of cleaning animal sheds. Apart from that several sanitising solutions are also available commercially for use. Disinfection It means destroying the cause of infection. Since the causative agents of many diseases are extremely small and may remain indefinitely in dust, cracks and crevices of buildings, disinfection must be carried out carefully to eradicate common enemies of life such as bacteria, viruses, moulds and eggs of insects from contaminated premises. The nature of the surfaces will influence the efficacy of the disinfection. Rough, porous surfaces are harder to disinfect than smooth surfaces. Porous surfaces are also harder to clean than smooth surfaces. Porous surfaces will therefore have heavier soil loads after cleaning, which further increase the difficulty of disinfection. A broad spectrum disinfectant with penetration enhancers should be used to disinfect gaushalas. Sunshine for disinfection: Direct rays from the sun are one of the most effective germ killers while being entirely safe and inexpensive. The farm buildings should be so oriented as to take full advantage of this natural resource. Under ordinary conditions a north-south orientation of the long axis of the building with open front and back can allow the entry of direct sunlight into the sheds in CHAPTER 6 Maintaining hygiene of animals as well as Gaushalas and disposal of waste M L Kamboj, Saroj Rai, Subhash Chandra and Anjali Kumari ICAR- National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal 31 32 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS the mornings and evenings. The dairy utensils should also be kept in the sun for drying and disinfection after cleaning. Chemical disinfectants: Common disinfectants used in animal sheds are boric acid, quaternary ammonium compound, bleach (sodium hypochlorite), potassium peroxy-monosulfate, alcohol (usually in hand sanitizer), chlorhexidine, phenolic disinfectants etc. Disinfectants may be applied either by mopping or spraying. The effectiveness of chemical disinfectants is greatly reduced in the presence of organic matter. Therefore, a thorough cleaning of the area should be done before applying the disinfectant.