 According to him, India’s heart lies in villages rather than the big cities. Based on these models, Gandhiji dreamed about ‘Grama Swaraj’- a human centered village which is a non-exploiting and decentralized economy. Under this village concept, every individual needs to have equal opportunities that employ each of its citizens through voluntary cooperation. This will lead to achieving self-sufficiency in the necessities of life, such as food, clothing and other basic requirements. Integrated rural development by incorporating agriculture, industry and other economic activities, merging the principles of decentralized democracy and social justice, was a component of Gandhiji’s Self-Reliance Model. According to him, villages are multi-purpose cooperatives. Such rural economic models cover all the productive sectors ranging from agriculture industries (Sushila 1979). Even though the recent economic reforms brought significant growth in the economy, unemployment, poverty and economic disparity are alarmingly high in the society (Mahra et al. 2015). Under these circumstances tapping rural knowledge and potential workforce through local management and implementing a Gandhian self-reliance model is the need of the hour. Aquaculture and fisheries activities have immense potential to strengthen the rural economy as envisaged in Gandhiji’s model of self-reliance. India is blessed with 8,118 km long coastline and 2.02 million sq km of vast Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ). In the inland sector, the country has huge freshwater resources in the form of 2.42 million ha of ponds and tanks, 0.2 million km rivers and canals, 3.12 million ha reservoirs, and the 0.8 million ha of floodplain lakes and derelict waters. It has 1.1 million ha of brackishwater area beside the 7.0 million ha of inland saline water resources. The country is one of the most important fish faunal hotspots 49 of the world with more than 3300 recorded fish species. The capture fisheries from marine and inland open-water systems although remained as a major contributor to the fish basket of the country over several decades, the developments made in aquaculture, both in freshwater and brackishwater sectors, in the last four decades have been phenomenal. The aquaculture is not only contributing significantly to the country’s fish production and catering to the burgeoning domestic demand, but also sharing about 19% (Rs. 47,000 crores) of the total agricultural export of the country. The fisheries sector has been integrated with agriculture, industry and other economic allied activities, thus providing an opportunity to adopt a self-reliant village model for the economic and social upliftment of the society. Such a model has been able to provide protection and elevate the position of the fisherman communities, which otherwise is loosely organized and represent marginalized and backward classes of the society (Bavinck and Vivekanandan 2017).