 Keywords: Eupatorium rugosum, pest repellent, strong odour Shri Khrolie Angami NU SASRD, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 2393 Use of bhang as pesticide Bhang (Cannabis sativa) plants are used for controlling thread worms in paddy nursery by the farmers of Solki area of Rajouri district of Jammu &Kashmir. Bhang plant is uprooted and kept in standing water of paddy nursery to control the thread worm. If problem of thread worm is severe then crushed leaves are put in standing water to kill the worm. Keywords: bhang, thread worm, paddy nursery Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu Contents 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22,  Search Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture Document 2 (Supplement 1) Chapter 6 Soil Fertility Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2423 Use of green-leaf manure for maintaining fertility of paddy nursery Muthumanickam and erukku (Calotropis gigantea) are specially applied as green leaf manure at the rate of 400 kg/8 cent in the nursery area. Farmers are using it since 20 years. Kolingi (Tephrosia purpurea) and tiger bean (Delonix data) are also applied as green leaf manure. Calotropis is the most preferred green-leaf manure among the farmers. Keywords: green-leaf manure, muthumanickam, erukka, kolingi, tiger bean Shri S. Marimuthu Kottaikadu, Kalagam, Peravururani, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 614 804 2424 Use of green leaf manure in paddy nursery and fields Application of kolingi as green leaf manure in the nursery reduces weed population. Cassia auriculata is applied only in the field, as its application in nursery makes the seedlings yellow. It is in practice since 20 years. Keywords: green leaf manure, nursery, rice field, kolingi, Cassia auriculata Shri S. Marimuthu Kottaikadu, Kalagam, Peravururani, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 614 804 2428 Green manuring of soil Green manuring is done by sowing a leguminous crop and turning it into the soil. The practice of green-manuring is a means for improving the fertility and water-holding capacity of light soil. The farmers of all hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh are following this practice. The crops commonly used for greenmanuring are greengram (Phaseolus mungo), blackgram (Phaseolus aureus), horsegram and soybean (Glycine max) These may be grown according to their suitability for a particular area. In the rich heavy soil when the system of crop rotation provides a reasonable gap between the harvesting of one crop (kharif) and the sowing of another (rabi) crop, green-manuring is done, which supplies nitrogen in the form of nitrates.