 Recognizing the shortcomings of the existing educational system and the need to link agricultural education programmes with production programmes, the University Education Commission (1948), led by Dr S Radhakrishnan, proposed the establishment of "Rural Universities." This recommendation was strengthened by two Joint Indo-American Teams' proposals (1955 and 1960), which supported the establishment of State OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 61 Goa Cochin CMFRI, 1994 Initiation of Cage Culture in 1970's self-governing organisations with state-wide responsibility for agricultural research, education, and training, as well as extension education. The establishment of SAUs, modelled after land-grant universities in the United States, was a defining moment in reorganising and strengthening India's agricultural education system. These universities became research branches of the ICAR and partners in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS). The ICAR, through the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), facilitates research collaboration with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) System, NARS, and research foundations around the world. DARE oversees all facets of agricultural research and education that need collaboration between federal and state agencies. SAUs, also on the other hand, work directly with these international organisations. The State Departments of Fisheries' research operations and duties were transferred to the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) with their founding after the 1960s. Development of fisheries education The Indian fisheries education system began with major and sustained efforts of government of India to reduce illiteracy among fishermen. At Tanur on the West Coast, the Fisheries Department established a unique Fisheries School in 1913. By 1919, the government had approved the establishment of a training centre in Calicut where school teachers of fisheries schools received specialised technical instruction in the field of fishing. In 1929, free education for the children of fishermen was provided by 30 day schools and 4 night schools. With a total enrolment of 19,510 students in 1950, there were 49 elementary and 10 higher elementary schools. Cauvery poompattinam, Sathankuppam, and Alambarikuppam in Madras had just 3 elementary schools left after the 1956 state reorganisation. In India, agricultural universities in their respective states are responsible for education in all agricultural sciences, including Fisheries. Prior to the establishment of these universities in the early 1960s, no Indian university offered higher- level fisheries education. The central and state governments were required to hire graduates in any of the basic sciences to fill managerial positions in the fisheries sector.