 Anonymous (2000d) 173 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 57 Control of deformity in brinjal by using mustard cake Ringworm infestation causes deformities in brinjal fruit. To prevent this the roots are treated with oil cake of mustard applied with water. This treatment results in big shiny brinjals (Uttar Pradesh). Ram Pratap and Rajput (1999) 58 Control of mosaic virus in tomato by using cakes of neem or mustard Tomato is prone to mosaic virus. In order to control the virus farmers use oil cakes of neem or mustard which are powdered and applied near the root region mixed with water. This is very effective in controlling the virus (Uttar Pradesh). Ram Pratap and Rajput (1999) 59 Application of common salt to control pests in coconut Application of common salt to coconut reduces button shedding and rhinoceros insect incidence as common salt acts as insect repellent and is cost effective substitute for potash (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 60 Biological control of mango hopper Planting cashew in mango orchards reduce magno hopper incidence because cashew acts as an alternate host of the hopper (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 61 Cost effective control of sooty mould in mango and sapota Cowdung being disinfestant, on spraying its slurry control sooty mould effectively in mango and sapota (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 62 Control of Koleroga in areca by intercropping Amorphophallus is grown as an intercrop with Areca because the its root exudates inhibit root grubs (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 63 Control of grubs in cardamon and lemon Leaves of Kasarka (Struchnos nuxvomica) mixed with cowdung is applied to cardamom and lemon plants to control grubs owing its fumigation effect. Discharded cattle horn filled with kerosene and burnt to dispel wild boars becaue of the odor of burning horn acts as repellent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 64 Control of root rot disease in fruit trees and vegetables by ash The farmers remove the mud around fruit trees or vegetable plants and put fuel-wood ash or lime to check root rot disease (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 174 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 65 Control of virus in chillies through fumigation A virus infection in chilli plants, causes the leaves to shrivel. This leads to loss of nutrition in the plants and the crop yield falls. Farmers have developed a method of fumigating away the virus.They burn 'guggul' (Balsamodendron mukul) and fumigates the plants with its smoke. The 'guggul' is placed on burning cow-dung cakes and is carried around the fields (Mahesana, Gujarat). Desai (1997) 66 Control of stem borer in fruit trees by kerosene soaked The kerosene soaked swap is put at the place where the stem borer are damaging the fruit trees (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh).