 It is expected that the revised curricula would increasingly be internalizing the “STEAM” concept (Fifth Dean’s Committee Report, 2017). Some of the new initiatives undertaken by Agricultural Education including those for All India Entrance Examination are as under: (a) Ranking of agricultural universities In line with the National Initiative on Ranking of Indian Institutions, ranking of Agricultural Universities has been initiated by ICAR with a larger objective to improve ranking of Indian Universities in World University Rankings. The ranking process is done annually and top three ranking universities are annually awarded on 16thJuly, the Foundation Day of ICAR. It is expected that the process of ranking would help agricultural universities to self-assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. UG students undergoing Group Activity on Developing Managerial Skills Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 6 While evaluating the agricultural universities, emphasis is laid on parameters such as students’ performance, academic excellence, faculty profile, research product, research impact, research excellence, technologies transferred to farmers, spread/adoption of technologies and increase in agricultural growth in the area of jurisdiction of the university. During the first ever ranking conducted by ICAR, 63 agricultural universities were evaluated and the top three ranking universities, viz. ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal; ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi and Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, were awarded on ICAR Foundation Day Award Ceremony held on 16 July 2018. (b) Student READY programme The Student READY programme was launched by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India on 25th July, 2015 consisting of 5 components, viz. Experiential Learning (EL), Rural Agriculture Work Experience (RAWE), In Plant Training/Industrial Attachment, Hands-on Training (HOT)/Skill Development Training and Student projects. This programme funded by ICAR, being the integral part of the degree programmes, is expected to make the agricultural graduates more capable and confident in handling the field and industry problems. Following the recommendations of V Dean’s Committee Report, a new programme Food Nutrition & Dietetics was introduced for admission through AIEEA (UG) w.e.f. 2018-19. (c) Declaration of UG degrees as professional degree ICAR has declared UG degrees in agriculture and allied subjects (13) as professional degree courses which has encouraged the pursuit of learning in agriculture and allied subjects for the purpose of scholarship abroad/prizes/medals/certificates and other academic titles.