 I b> > ‘ , : “¢ i AY Mealybug-infested mango fruits @ Adopt biological control to keep off insect pests and plant pathogens by mass multiplication of predators, parasites and pathogens; application of insect-growth regulators, pheromones and kairomones. Survey, surveillance and monitor the pest population build-up for forecasting and forewarning the farmer to prepare against the damage Screen germplasm through a national support system Exchange clean germplasm through application of biotechnology Conduct research on pesticides, particularly biopesticides Carefully monitor the pest resistance to pesticides Maintain biodiversity by strengthening research on biosystemics, conservation and biotic agents. For the nearly 67% sand-dune-affected western Rajasthan, the CAZRI has developed a technique of micro-wind breaks which involves: fencing of the area; establishment of micro-wind breaks on the windward side of the dune in 5 m chess-board pattern or in 5 m parallel strips; and sowing of grasses or transplanting of trees and shrubs at the onset of monsoon. For which, the most suitable are: Leptadenia pyrotechnica, Ziziphus nummularia, Crotalaria burhia, Panicum turgidum (among shrubs); Acacia tortilis, A. senegal, A. bivenosa, A. amplicéps, Colophospermum —_mopane, Calligonum polygonoides, Prosopis juliflora, P..cineraria (among trees); and Lasiurus sindicus and Cenchrus ciliaris among the grasses RS rear neee ea iioee Sea soil, agronomy and_ pasroforestry en ae ee . ot the ee wei aa 4 Aw a Soil resources are | finite. The per-caput availability of the arable land is declining gradually. In India, it was 0.48 ha in 1950; it is 0.15 ha at present. Our inelastic net cultivated area of 141 million hectares has a cropping intensity of 1.29. The production base of agriculture — the soil — is often beset with physical, chemical and microbiological constraints. Soil degradation occurs chiefly due to erosion, nutrient depletion, waterlogging, salinity and alkalinity. About 0.8% of the agricultural land is annually usurped for urbanization. Nearly 5,334 million tonnes of the soil are annually lost due to erosion. Of which, 29% is permanently lost to the sea, 10% deposits in reservoirs reducing their storage capacity by 1-2% and 61% gets shifted to other places. Management of resource base — soil and water — is vital for ensuring optimal production. So far, increase in production has largely been through mobilization of production inputs and expansion of arable land. The possibility of continued expansion has little future. We are therefore currently placing far greater emphasis on soil-resource inventory and on development of agricultural technologies that integrate efficient management of land, water, nutrients and other production inputs.