 Institutional support and international promotion of essential oil and perfumery products. Medicinal crops: Senna, Periwinkle, Coleus, Aswagandha, Glory lily, Sarpagandha, Dioscorea sp., Aloe vera, Phyllanthus amarus, Andrographis paniculata. Medicinal solanum Isabgol, Poppy, Safed musli, Stevia rebaudiana, Mucuna pruriens, Satavari, Mulhati, Asaphoetida, Nux vomica and Rosadle. Aromatic Crops: Palmarosa, lemongrass, citronella, vettiver, geranium, artemisia, Mentha, Ocimum, eucalyptus, rosemary, thyme, patchouli, lavender, marjoram, oreganum. Unit 4. Breeding of Plantation, Spice, Medicinal and Aromatic Crops Species and cultivars, cytogenetics, survey, collection, conservation and evaluation, blossom biology, breeding objectives, approaches for crop improvement, introduction, selection, hybridization, mutation breeding, polyploid breeding, improvement of quality traits, resistance breeding for biotic and abiotic stresses, molecular aided breeding and biotechnological approaches, marker-assisted selection, bioinformatics, IPR issues, achievements and future thrusts. Crops: Coffee and tea, Cashew and cocoa, Rubber, palmyrah and oil palm, Coconut and arecanut, Black pepper and cardamom, Ginger and turmeric, Fenugreek, coriander, fennel, celery and ajwain, Nutmeg, cinnamon, clove and allspice. Role of commodity boards and developmental institutions in plantation crops. Medicinal crops, viz. Cassia angustifolia, Catharanthus roseus, Gloriosa superba, Coleus forskohlii, Stevia, Withania somnifera, Papaver omniferum, Plantago ovata, Dioscorea sp, Chlorophytum sp, Rauvolfia serpentina, Aloe vera, Phyllanthus amarus, Medicinal Solanum Aromatic crops: Geranium, vettiver, Lemon grass, Palmarosa, citronella, rosemary, Patchouli, Eucalyptus, Artemisia, Ocimum sp, and Mint. Unit 5. Processing of Plantation Crops, Spices, Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Commercial uses of spices and plantation crops. Processing of major spices - cardamom, black pepper, ginger, turmeric, chilli and paprika, vanilla, cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, allspice, coriander, fenugreek, curry leaf. Extraction of oleoresin and essential oils; Processing of produce from plantation crops, viz. coconut, arecanut, cashewnut, oil palm, palmyrah, date palm, cocoa, tea, coffee, rubber etc; Processing of medicinal plants– dioscorea, gloriosa, stevia, coleus, ashwagandha, tulsi, isabgol, safed musli, senna, aloe, catharanthus, etc. Different methods of drying and storage. Microbial contamination of stored product. Influence of temperature and time combination on active principles; Extraction and analysis of active principles using TLC/HPLC/GC. Distillation, solvent extraction from aromatic plants– davana, mint, rosemary, rose, citronella, lavender, jasmine, etc. Study of aroma compounds and value addition. Nano-processing technology in medicinal and aromatic plants. 46 Unit 6.