 It is very effective in dysentery and chronic diarrhoea. Syrups and wines made from it are considered to be expectorant, sedative and tonic. The fruit is useful in bleeding piles and dyspepsia. It also removes urinary concretions, and is used in haemoptysis and wounds of urinary tract. Papaya: A fast-growing, short-lived, single-stemmed small tree, 2-10 m in height with a straight, cylindrical, soft, hollow grey trunk roughened by the presence of large leaf- and inflorescence-scars. Leaves alternate, crowded at the apex of the trunk forming a crown, long-petioled, glabrous, more or less deeply palmatifid; flowers fragrant, trimorphous, usually unisexual-dioecious, male flowers in lax many-flowered, densely pubescent cymes at the tips of the pendulous, fistular rachis; female flowers large, solitary or in few-flowered racemes, with a short thick rachis; fruit a large berry, varying widely in size, elongate to globose with a large central cavity; seeds black, tuberculous and enclosed in a transparent aril. Papaya Female and Male Plants Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY has never been found wild, but it is probable that it originated in southern Mexico and Costa Rica. Papaya was introduced into India in the 16th century and was naturalised quickly. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 1484 Use of leaves ofbhant (Glycine max) for checking worms in animals Volume 2, page 395 Bhant Assamese: patnijokra; Bengali: garjkalai; Hindi: bhat, bhatwar, bhetmas, ramkurthi. Soyabean, soya, soja Glycine max (L.) Merrill The seeds have been used for centuries as an article of food in China, Japan and Korea and constitute a valuable protein supplement to the rice diet. The seeds are consumed green, dry or sprouted, whole or split. Green seeds are used as vegetable, roasted and salted seeds are used in cakes and candies. The seeds are ground into flour and used for bakery products. They are also processed to give a milk- like product, curd or cheese, soybean is often cultivated as a pasture, forage or fodder crop and used either as hay or as silage. Soybean straw is relished by all kinds of livestock. An annual with erect or climbing stem, reaching a height of 11/2-6 ft, densely clothed with hairs; leaves trifoliolate, ovate- lanceolate, long-petioled; flower small, inconspicuous, borne on short axillary racemes, white or purple to reddish purple, normally self-pollinated; pods 11/2-2 in. long in clusters of 3-5, densely hairy, sub-torulose, containing 2- 4 seeds: seeds elliptical with long hilum, compressed, yellow, chocolate or black. Soybean is a native of south-eastern Asia. It has been cultivated since long in north India, particularly in the hill tracts of Assam, Bengal, Manipur and Khasi and Naga hills, up to an elevation of 6,000 ft. It has been grown to some extent in Kumaon, Nepal, Bhutan and Sikkim.