 The result is indicative that markets are essential if UA households are to be food secured in India. Interestingly, as the level of postharvest losses increases, the probability of food insecurity increases. Implicitly, postharvest losses could be counterproductive to the positive gains of UA on food security. Consequently, measures to reduce postharvest losses could be one of the sustainable strategies for ensuring food security among urban households engaged in UA. Unpredictably, a farmer with a contract or does urban farming as a business is less likely to be food secure compared to an urban farmer with no contract. This relationship could be attributed to the possibility of farmers selling more than marketable surplus to take care of other urgent household needs such as health care, school fees, among others; thereby, decreasing the food available in the household. In contrast, a farmer with extension contact is less likely to be food insecured compared to others who do not have extension contact. A possible reason is that, extension officers teach farmers on improved agricultural techniques for increasing yield and the various food fortification techniques to ensure the household consumes a balanced diet regularly. 4. Conclusions and recommendations This article focused on simultaneously analysing the factors that influence the extent of UA participation and its effect on food security in urban cities in Asia and Africa. We examined the determinants of the extent of UA by the use of heteroskedastic linear regression. We also used the Seemingly Unrelated Regression to analyse the effect of the extent of UA on food security. In terms of methodological approach, the results from the Breusch–Pagan test for error independence revealed that the determinants of the food-security-access domain tools (i.e. HFIAS and per capita food expenditure) are correlated hence the Seemingly Unrelated Regression is a fit model for such analysis. On average, households in Ghana were mildly food insecure, whereas that of India was moderately food insecure. Results from the empirical analysis revealed that, various demographic, economic and institutional factors varyingly influenced extent of UA participation and urban food security. Further, the extent of UA had a significant, positive influence on food security in both Ghana and India. One possible implication from this research is that countries in Africa and Asia should rigorously promote UA among urban households to reduce urban food insecurity. It is instructive to note that, even though we drew from the experiences on the food security status of UA households in India and Ghana and the effect UA on food security, we did not, in any way, attempt to compare the food security status of UA households in the two countries. 4.