 Unique and common microbial genera were involved in carbon (13), nitrogen (150), iron (63), phosphorus (33), and sulfur (231) cycles, analyzed from the transcriptionally active members in the rhizosphere. In addition, the rice rhizosphere metabolites, at seedling stage (15 days), were assessed to identify several sugars, amino acids, and organic acids, besides other metabolites. In another study, the rhizosphere microbial diversity of the scented rice (cv. Kunkuni Joha), characterized using amplicon sequencing analysis, showed that the relative abundance of microbial groups in aerobic and saturated conditions differed distinctly in response to low N and high N doses. Foodomics study for food authentication and exploration of nutraceutical potential: This experiment was performed to establish the metabolite profile of the new grape variety, Manjari Medika, and differentiated it with its two parents, Flame Seedless and Pusa Navrang. The grape berry samples of these varieties were extracted by methanol. Metabolite profiling was carried out and the data was acquired using the full scan - data dependent MS/MS method of acquisition. The list of identified compounds for the three varieties was prepared, statistically compared and differentiating compounds were identified. The metabolic profile showed significant differences with respect to the number, class and concentration of compounds. Few differentiating compounds, such as epicatechin, trigonelline, kaempferol were identified. A metabolomics approach for the analyses of scab-disease resistance in apple and development of a metabolite-based non-invasive sensor for early scab-disease diagnosis: The metabolic reprogramming in root tissues of scab-resistant (‘Prima’) and scab-susceptible (‘Red Delicious’) apple cultivars was carried out after being infected by Venturia inaequalis. Syringic acid, a root-derived metabolite, was identified as a key player in reducing scab fungus growth on aerial parts of plants, revealing a long-distance signalling system between shoot and root. Application of methyl jasmonate (MeJA) for inducing resistance in apple plants was investigated. Exogenous application of MeJA on leaf surfaces showed increased membrane stability and decreased malondialdehyde levels in the scab-susceptible ‘Red Delicious’, indicating its potential in protecting against oxidative damage. A volatile biomarker(s) was identified for the screening of scab resistant apple germplasm at early stage non-destructively. Based on the biomarker(s), an e-nose sensor prototype was developed for the early non-destructive screening of scab resistance germplasm. Relative abundance of top microbial phyla, equal or higher than 0.05% in at least one of the genotypes of rice seeds were plotted, var. Pusa Basmati 1509, var. Sulendhas and var. R-43.