 Application of chaubatia paste Extent and coverage PRA and field study PRA technique was used to gather background information about the performance and other facts of the technology. Experiment The effectiveness of the indigenous practice was compared with the scientifically standardized known method for stem disease control with the following 7 treatments. 1. Chaubatia paste (copper carbonate + red lead + raw linseed oil = 1:1:1.25) 2. Lime - sulphur 3. Lime -sulphur + kerosene (3:1) 4. Yellow soil paste (IT practice) 5. Yellow soil + kerosene 6. Yellow soil + lime _ sulphur 7. Control The experiment has been laid out in the existing orchard with 4 replications for each treatment. Locally available yellow soil is used for this practice. Samples of the yellow soil were collected from the site for the purpose of physico-chemical analysis. Apple trees having 10_15 affected branches were selected for the study. First application of the treatment has been done during dormant stage (January 2003) after scraping the surface of infected bark of the affected branches of apple trees (Plate 1 and 2). Second application Table 1. Present status of use of the technology Present status Number Percentage Persons using fine yellow soil 38 78 Persons using Chaubatia paste - - Persons not using any measure 11 22  HORTICULTURAL CROPS of the treatments was done during May_June 2003. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Results presented in Table 1 indicate that 78% of the orchard growers use fine yellow soil to control stem disease in apple. No one was using Chaubatia paste due to lack of its availability. About 70% orchardists preferred use of Chaubatia paste, if made available (Table 2). Experiment The experiment was laid out during October, 2002 and the initial percentage of infection was recorded (Table 3) by carefully observing the length of the cankered portions of affected branches during dormant stage in December 2002. The process has been depicted in Figs 5 and 6. Final observation were taken in the month of August, 2003 and per cent recovery was calculated (Table3). Data presented in Table 3 indicate that among all the treatments, chaubatia paste was found to be more effective in reducing the stem disease of apple. There was a recovery of 62.1% by using chaubatia paste which was followed by the treatments lime + sulphur + kerosene (59.9%) and lime + sulphur (53.1%). Among the yellow soil treatments, yellow soil alone showed a recovery of 11.0%, followed by yellow soil+ kerosene (19.6%). However, there was a recovery of 50.9% when yellow soil was used in combination with lime and sulphur. Figure 5 and 6 show the protion of the disease and its treatment at experiment station, Chaubatia. Results of the chemical analysis of the yellow soil used in the study show that content of DTPA extractable Cu is only 0.50ppm.