 This analysis was conducted with a focus on the details of the corresponding authors. The results show that New Delhi has the highest number of publications, followed by Tamil Nadu, West Bengal, Andhra Pradesh, and Karnataka. This may be due to the presence of prominent agricultural research institutions in New Delhi and in these states. Also, it may be because these institutes have received more funding from the central Government and international donors to conduct research on climate resilient and sustainable agriculture. During the study period, the states with the highest publication output were New Delhi, West Bengal, Karnataka, and Telangana. Interestingly, despite the relatively late start of CCRASAI research in West Bengal, the significant number of published papers ranks it third, indicating the considerable attention CCRASAI research has garnered in the region. Fig. 5 presents the top ten institutes involved in CCRASAI research. The International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in New Delhi, with 41 publications, is the most productive institution. This is followed by the Indian Agricultural Research Institute in New Delhi and the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in West Bengal, each with 31 publications. Notably, the list includes nine Indian institutions and one from the United States, underscoring their significant contribution to CCRASAI research. While a major share of research on CCRASAI comes from central Government or international donor-funded research institutes such as the International Maize and Wheat Improvement Center in New Delhi, the Indian Agricultural Research Institute in New Delhi, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research in West Bengal, and the Indian Council for Agricultural Research, the share of research conducted by other universities, primarily at the state level, is relatively less. This suggests that these universities, which currently have fewer publications, should receive more funding and better infrastructure for research, and should also focus more on research on CCRASAI. 3.4. Topmost multiterm used in climate resilience research In India, the terms most frequently used in research on CCRASAI are “climate change impacts,” appearing 198 times, followed by “adaptation strategies,” used 123 times, and “sustainable agriculture,” mentioned 93 times (Table 4). These terms indicate that Indian researchers place great emphasis on analyzing the effects of climate change, devising adaptation strategies, and promoting sustainable agricultural practices. These aspects are viewed as crucial for societal development compared to other research areas. Table 3 Major research focus of top 10 authors.