 Keywords: uterus, prolapsed, pedal Above 500 g sugarcane leaves are given twice daily to the animal. The uterus will not prolapse. This ITK is practised in Rajupur village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: prolapsed uterus, sugarcane leaves Powder of nut (250 g) and goat milk (500 ml) is mixed well. The dose is divided into two parts and given in morning and at evening. The animal is treated in 2 days. Cattle owners of village Khiraka, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) follow this wisdom. Keywords: nut, goat milk, uterus, prolapse Cattle owners of village Rajpuri of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of 250 g lajwanti leaves, 500 g akash bel and barley flour. This mixture is fed to the animal. Keywords: lajwanti, akashbel, uterus prolapse Shri Sultan Singh, S/o Shri Mewa Ram, Nitoie, Bhamora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Meghnath, S/o Shri Maiku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Knaiya Lai, S/o Shri Khub Chand, Khiraka, Auadh, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram, village Rajpuri (Nawada), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Mimosa pudica Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3299 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with roots of chitchita (Achyranthus aspera) 3300 Treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals with black salt and dry ginger About 200 g chitchita root paste is boiled in water. Cool boiled water is mixed to this mixture and fed to the animal, which cures the prolapsed uterus. Keywords: chitchita, prolapsed uterus A paste of 50 g blacksalt and 50 g dry ginger is prepared and it is boiled in 1 litre water. Half the solution is given to the animal 2 times a day. Keywords: black salt, dry ginger, uterus Shri Krishna Pal, S/o Shri Tikka Ram, village Khiraka, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram, Rajpuri (Nawada) dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3301 Treatment of prolapsed uterus with vermilion Pure and dry vermilion is applied over the prolapsed uterus and is pushed inside the body gently. Scratch by nails should be avoided. On an average its cost is Rs. 10 for one animal. About 50- 60% of population is following it since 10-12 years. Keywords: vermilion, uterus, scratch, nails Shri Roopchand Khar Village Nadi-II, Peesangam, Ajmer (Rajasthan) 3302 Treatment of prolapsed uterus with gum of palas tree (Butea monosperma Lamk Tanbort.) and leaves of sisam (Dalberia sissoo) 3303 Treatment of prolapsed uterus with decoction of tree roots of young babool (Acacia nilotica) When cows or buffaloes suffer from the problem of prolapsed uterus, the cattle owners of Alwar district in Rajasthan, dissolve 300-400 g gum of palas tree in water. This solution is drenched to the animal orally thrice a day for 10 days. Besides, ground green leaves of sisam (250 g) are also given with 1 litre water, thrice a day.