 The infected plants show stunted growth with twisted leaves. Infestation comes in early stage of the growth; the bulb formation stops completely and plants die slowly. Metasystox @ 0.1% and cypermethrin @ 0.01% or deltamethrin 2.8 ai @ 20 ml/ha should be sprayed along with triton or sandovit. For further interaction, please write to : Dr R K Singh (Professor & Head), Department of Vegetable Science, College of Horticulture, Banda University of Agriculture and Technology, Banda, Uttar Pradesh 210 001. *Corresponding author email: singhrknbpgr@gmail.com For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1620 Price : ` 2000 Postage : ` 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. Attention readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Indian Horticulture 30 Growing makhana for high income Makhana (Euryle ferox Salisb.) is normally grown in stagnant water bodies like ponds, low depressions, lakes, etc.