 Nonetheless, these magnitudes are smaller than the impact on primary or secondary beneﬁciaries and network beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations. The evi- dence suggests that districts where frontline demonstrations are implemented frequently are more likely to inﬂuence diffusion speed at the aggregate level than districts where such demonstra- tions are conducted infrequently. 6. Conclusions and implications In developing and emerging economies like India, large-scale agricultural advisory services can serve as the most important knowledge- and information-dissemination institutions for accel- erating the adoption of modern technologies and improving farm- ers’ learning ability. The KVK model has emerged as an inﬂuential blueprint for enhancing outcomes among smallholders. KVKs now serves as the primary source of knowledge and information for millions of Indian farmers. This study evaluated the outreach efforts of public-sector KVKs. In particular, the study estimated the impact of knowledge and information transfer on primary or secondary beneﬁciaries of frontline demonstrations and on network beneﬁciaries (farmers who beneﬁted from having primary and secondary beneﬁciaries in their social networks). The study also evaluated the impact of capacity-building programs on the adoption of HD-2967, a newly released wheat variety, by primary and network beneﬁciaries. The study established the strong positive impact of frontline demonstrations and capacity-building programs on beneﬁciaries’ adoption of HD-2967. Although the effect on primary beneﬁciaries is signiﬁcant, substantial gains also arise for network beneﬁciaries compared to non-KVK farmers. The above ﬁndings underscore the vital role that social networks play in diffusing technology. The results reinforce the argument put forth by Banerjee et al. (2019) and Beaman, BenYishay, Magruder, and Mobarak (2021). In other words, Source: Indian Council of Agriculture Research, Government of India. Fig. 6. Number of times FLDs of HD-2967 have been conducted between 2012 and 2017 by the district. D. Varshney, P.K. Joshi, A. Kumar et al. World Development 160 (2022) 106067 13 technology transfer by central individuals,36 or network theory- based targeting approaches in villages, could lead to higher diffusion rates than technology transfer initiated by random individuals or opinion leaders. This study provides a new avenue of exploration for researchers examining the transfer of knowledge and informa- tion on farming when the primary beneﬁciary is a central individual or is best placed to disseminate information. The study also high- lighted the critical role social networks play in the diffusion of knowledge and information from public programs like KVKs. The ﬁndings provide new insights for policymakers developing and implementing farmer outreach initiatives such as frontline demon- strations and capacity-building programs.