’ This initiative would enhance rural employment opportunities through small agri-business start-ups, public-private as well as private-private entrepreneurship. Private players may also help through soft loans and mentoring programs for involving rural youths as input dealers/suppliers as well as paid extension agents. Creation of Department of Youth in Agriculture The committee strongly recommended the creation of a separate Department of Youth in Agriculture under the MoA & FW. This will ensure collaboration and coordination with concerned line departments in other Ministries such as Science and Technology, Skill Development and Entrepreneurship, Food Processing Industry, Rural Development, Commerce and Industry, Chemicals and Fertilizers, etc. so as to meet the aspirations of youth in agriculture. Such an institutional mechanism, with funding support through the proposed ‘National Mission on Youth in Agriculture’ will help in motivating and attracting youth in agriculture and allied fields. ICT knowledge enabled youth The committee was of the view that the role of well-trained and competent youth, with expertise in ICT application for e-NAM, Start-up, Stand-up and skill development schemes, agribusiness enterprises, etc. is extremely important. They would thus need enabling policies for long-term investments, availability of easy and soft credit, provision of subsidy upfront to the entrepreneurs, farmer exchange visits, easy market accessibility, land law reforms for entrepreneurs, no taxation system for rural-based primary value addition involving youth, review of Agri-Clinic support system by the NABARD, reforms in marketing laws such as scrapping of APMC Act, provision of ready insurance for covering risk of ‘start-up’ entrepreneurs, etc. would immensely encourage youth to embrace agriculture. The Agricultural Education Division, ICAR is making all out efforts to attract the talent from all over country and getting them exposed to different socio-cultural environment and nurture them to provide quality manpower who is willing to work beyond regional and linguistic barriers as per emerging need in the coming years. Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 63 Table 24. Number of PG Scholarships and JRF/SRF (PGS) secured by the graduates/post-graduates of the Agricultural Universities Sr. No. Name of the University 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured No of PGS Secured No of JRF/SRF Secured 1. AAU, Anand (Gujarat) 3 1 6 1 - 1 2 6 1 3 2 7 2. AAU, Jorhat -785 013 (Assam) 3 1 1 - 4 - 5 1 3 4 4 4 3. AMU, Aligarh (UP) - - - - - 1 - - - 2 - - 4. ANGRAU, Guntur (AP) 9 7 13 2 8 5 14 2 37 10 38 - 5. AU, Jodhpur, Rajasthan - - - - - - 1 - 3 2 1 6. AU, Kota, Rajasthan - - - - - - 3 - 4 3 1 2 7. BASU, Patna, Bihar - - - - - - - - - - 2 - 8.