 The technology involves placing a honey bee hive (of eight frames size) at the border of polyhouse in such a way that half of box remains with main entrance facing inside polyhouse and other half (back of box) remains outside polyhouse. This box is provided with two exits at front and back of the hive so that bees can move in either of directions. The hive has to be placed when crops are about to flower. In stingless bee, two hives of T. iridipennis are hung from top at crop canopy level. Observations revealed both pollinator species foraging efficiently on both male and female flowers of muskmelon and cucumber and thus effecting pollen transfer to stigma. First crop of rice (var. Manu Ratna) Short-duration cassava + cluster bean Short-duration cassava + French bean Short-duration cassava + groundnut View of the field experiment on rice-short-duration cassava + legumes a b c (a) Stingless bee foraging on muskmelon flower; (b, c) Indian honey bee foraging on cucumber and muskmelon flowers. There was no fruit set in plants excluded from bees whereas, fruit set, number of fruits per plant and fruit weight due to bee pollination were 92.5%, 1.85 and 1.6 kg, respectively, in musk melon, and 88.6%, 21.4 and 375.5 g, respectively, in cucumber; and comparable with hand pollination. The estimated yield was 50 t/ha for muskmelon and 80 t/ha for cucumber with honey bee assisted pollination. This technology has potential in overcoming the pollination problem of cross pollinated vegetables under polyhouse without need of exotic pollinator insect species. CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 72 (a) Hive of stingless bee inside polyhouse; (b) honey bee hive placed in polyhouse; (c) cucumbers grown with bee pollination; (d) muskmelon grown under polyhouse with honey bee pollination. a b c d Vegetable based cropping system for eastern Uttar Pradesh: Two years observation proved cowpea- tomato-okra to be the best vegetable cropping sequence for productivity (275.83 q/ha) in terms of Rice Equivalent Yield followed by okra-tomato-cowpea (258.07 q/ha). However, bottle gourd-wheat-amaranth cropping system was observed most profitable with maximum (2.36) B:C. on Pomato was developed and finetuned by harvesting both potato tubers and tomato fruits from Pomato. Field experiments have proved Pomato (indeterminate tomato hybrid NS42-66 grafted on potato Kufri Pukhraj) producing 74.25 t tomato and 17.65 t of potato/ha with a net profit of ` 6.27 lakh/ha and benefit-cost ratio of 3.46. Back bulbs as source of planting materials in orchids: Back bulbs are previously flowered or unflowered pseudobulbs. A back bulb having roots are pulled or rhizomes are cut just beyond it and are inserted at one side of a pot filled with orchid compost or sharp sand or grit keeping the cut surface of the bulb nearest the edge of the pot.