 In order to coordinate and monitor effectively the above suggested areas of convergence, the Committee is of the view that ICAR should set up with approval of its President (Minister of 27 Recommendations Agriculture) Joint-Coordination Committee at the National level and also ensure establishment of similar Joint-Coordinations at State and District levels as specified in Annexure-VI. 28 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 4.5 Administrative guidelines 4.5.1 Personnel policies Strengthening of KVK with qualified manpower is essential as they are functioning for knowledge sharing and technology application in agriculture and allied sectors. Since KVKs are hosted by different organizations having varied recruitment and promotion policies, the Committee recommended the following: (a) Manpower With respect to disciplines, the following pattern is recommended as per the need of the district. Out of 10 Scientists, 8 posts should be in the core disciplines namely, (i) Agricultural Extension (ii) Agronomy/Soil Science (iii) Plant Protection (Entomology/Plant Pathology) (iv) Plant Breeding/Seed Technology (To strengthen the participatory seed production and maintenance breeding in the farmers’ fields as well as at instructional farm of KVK, the discipline of Plant Breeding/Seed Technology is required at KVK.) (v) Animal Science/Fisheries (vi) Horticulture (vii) Home Science (viii) Agriculture Engineering (Post Harvest Technology/Value addition) The other two posts could be out of other disciplines such as: (i) Animal Science/Fisheries/Agroforestry/Plant Pathology (ii) Agri-Business Management/Agricultural Economics (b) Recruitment of staff ●Since KVKs are 100% funded by the ICAR, the host organizations shall get an undertaking from the respective State Governments that there shall be no restriction/ban for recruiting all the sanctioned KVK posts. ●In case of KVKs under SAUs/CAU/ICAR Institutes/State Governments, the recruitment of KVK staff is to be done as per the recruitment/selection procedures followed/existed in their respective host organisations. However, one member of the Recruitment/Selection Committee should be from the respective ZPD. ●In the case of KVKs functioning under the NGO, the NGO should advertise the posts in Employment News and a leading local newspaper, and details are to be posted on websites of host organization and KVK. Invariably, advertisements should appear 6 months in advance of the retirement date so that the new incumbent will be in position on the day the post falls 29 Recommendations vacant. Further, applications received are to be screened by a Committee, including one representative drawn from a nearby Agricultural University. The academic qualifications and experience for the posts should not be less than what is prescribed by ICAR. The promotional policy including the pay and eligibility criteria should be as applicable to similar posts in ICAR.