 SEBI gave an in-principle approval on December 19, 2022, to the National Stock Exchange, and a subsequent final approval on December 27, 2022, for introducing SSE as a standalone distinct section on the Bombay Stock Exchange. The basic thought process behind this is that like investors investing in listed companies globally through share purchases, they would likewise finance social impact projects, thus making funds readily obtainable for the social sector. It is a striking proposition for an emerging economy giant like India which regularly faces trials on the development pathway. 6 Conclusion Indian Agriculture employed ~45% of the nation's workforce and generated 17.5% of GDP with export earnings over US $ 41 billion in 2021. Yet, finance is not meandering smoothly to the AFOLU sector, which calls for significant investment in projects which prioritize maintaining soil health, yields, and nutritional quality to meet the increasing demands of the population. Despite the government and development financial institutions continuing to play significant roles, generating investments from conventional investors is essential in gauging the scale of the challenge. Lack of financing from mainstream investors is severe for emerging economies, like India, where traditionally small landholdings of farmers make private investors reluctant to provide desired monetary sops. Agriculture remains a state subject in India. While numerous Indian states have taken an initiative in promoting sustainable agriculture, others need to follow suit, like creating conducive conditions for mushrooming agritech startups; working with Financing Sustainable Agriculture in India 219 multilateral agencies for strengthening capacities through extensive farmer training on sustainable methods; and mainstreaming blended finance via state development institutions. State governments could fund studies on the benefits brought about by sustainable agriculture practices as compared to conventional methods, thereby enabling greater acceptance within FPOs and institutions, besides additional research. With the assistance of government funding, non-governmental institutions could be facilitators to undertake and disseminate such research. Climate change has reared its head as one of the foremost challenges in our era, and the steady increase in investments supporting environmental, social, and governance concerns along with climate change issues confirm the increased acknowledgement by investors of the scenario that adequate capital can make the much-needed difference. Agriculture will remain an area that shall continue to have a substantial influence on climate change, and the huge gap that remains between the investor intention and the action needed to make a difference needs to be bridged. References 1. Aithal, P. S., & Sharma, K. R. S. (2022). Impact of Sustainable Finance on MSMEs and other Companies to Promote Green Growth and Sustainable development 2. Banga, J. (2019).