 Gandhiji’s Cooperative Movement and Progress of Cooperatives in India After South African struggle for peasants, Gandhiji realized distress of Indian peasantry during his visit in the countryside of India due to oppression by illegal taxation and enforcement. After observation, he said, “closest cooperation amongst the peasants is an absolute necessity.” According to him, cooperation can empower people in developing socialistic society and industry based on agricultural produce such as cotton, sugar, oil, seed etc. should rest on cooperative societies to avoid exploitation from corporate. This can safeguard the weaker section from industrialists and make village self-reliant (Debapriya 2006). According to United Nations (2012), “A cooperative is an autonomous association of persons united voluntarily to meet their common economic, social and cultural needs and aspirations through a jointly owned and democratically controlled enterprise”. Cooperative societies have potential to act not only as financing short term and medium term loans but also they can provide technical and vocational services to the small and marginal farmers to transform agriculture into agribusiness enterprise by pooling of the resource for realizing economies of scale (Sahoo et al. 2020). There are several cooperative societies working successfully such as farmers’ cooperative, consumer’s cooperative, marketing cooperatives, processing cooperatives, service cooperatives, 188 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR etc. IFFCO and KRIBHCO are working successfully in input production distribution among the members as an enterprise. Dairy cooperatives like AMUL, sugar cooperatives, etc. are top most examples of agriculture based cooperatives in India. Gandhiji’s Khadi and cottage industry is another cooperative which promoted production and value addition at houses of village and facilitated employment generation and self-sufficient small scale production units without any fear of establishment, storage, transportation, overproduction and marketing the produce (Sharma and Shikha 2016). 5. Contribution ICAR in Realizing Gandhiji’s Dream of Rural Development: Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has made significant contribution in making India not only self-reliant on food front but also a food surplus country. Since its inception in pre-independence era; ICAR with its nation-wide network of research institutes, deemed universities and Krishi Vigyan Kendras; has been the most trusted and valued source for technological backstopping for the farmers. The Gandhian philosophy has been the driving force in devising pathways for technology development and dissemination. The development of appropriate and scale neutral technologies have been its core principle. The varieties and technologies of production and processing have penetrated among all categories and communities of farmers.