com HANDBOOK OF ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Livestock sector has created a significant impact on equity in terms of employment and poverty alleviation. After staple crops, livestock sector is the second most important contributor to the agricultural economy. The producer prices of meat, eggs and milk, in India appear to be highly competitive as the domestic producer prices of these products are quite low compared to the ex-farm gate prices of major exporters in the world markets. A knowledge resource is essential to harness the potential of animal production. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research brought out first edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry in 1962 for serving the end-users ranging from livestock owners to academicians. This is the Fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry which includes 48 chapters under nine sections, such as Animal Genetics and Breeding; Animal Nutrition and Feed Technologies; Animal Management; Animal Reproduction; Animal Health Management; Animal Biotechnology; Animal Products, Technology and Machineries; Economics and Trade of Livestock and Poultry Enterprise; and Social Sciences. It has 19 new chapters like Impact of Biotechnology, Nanotechnology: Applications in Animal Sciences; Carbon Trading: Mechanisms and Opportunities in Livestock Sector; Intellectual Property Rights Regime; Indigenous Technical Knowledge etc.; and old chapters were revised holistically. The fourth revised and enlarged edition of Handbook of Animal Husbandry will prove useful to the students, teachers, livestock/poultry farmers, and to especially those who visualize the economic growth of country with the support of livestock sector. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 1550 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-086-7 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 13 April 2023 Soil moisture conservation in water-deficit hill agriculture: Affordable to small landholdings Burhan U Choudhury* ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 Rain-fed agriculture in the hills of north-eastern India is at the risk of crop failure, primarily due to over-dependence on inconsistent distribution and variable intensity of rainfall. Intermittent long dry spell between monsoon months (June–September) delay the timely planting of summer crops. In the rainless (<200 mm annually) months (November–March), moisture stress in sloping upland restricts rabi (winter) cultivation to <20% of kharif (rainy) area (4.24 million ha). Adopting soil water conservation practices (SWCPs) in situ or ex situ may benefit to address these constraints.