 Mulches also improved the use efficiency of applied fertilizers and the use of reflective mulches minimized the incidences of pests and viral diseases. Farmers of surrounding villages were impressed by the results of this innovative technological intervention of plastic mulching with proper irrigation scheduling. In her opinion, by following these technologies, she could reduce the wastage of water and fertilizers and also increase water-use efficiency. The incidence of pests and diseases also reduced. The number of seedlings required for planting one-acre area is also less because of the decreased seedling mortality. The fruits obtained are of Project personnel monitoring the brinjal and cauliflower demonstration fields and interacting with Smt. Naik Major contributions of IIWM-FFP centre through module-wise interventions Crop-based module • Adoption of the System of Rice Intensification (SRI) method, quality hybrid and HYV seeds, nursery management, line transplanting with young seedlings, proper plant population, cono-weeders, bio-pesticides like neem oil, etc. Horticulture-based module • Saplings of ‘Mahy Green’ hybrid variety of brinjal and tissue culture banana. • Vegetable cultivation with polythene mulching and micro- irrigation for water saving, installation of drip and sprinkler irrigation systems. • Rabi season vegetable seeds and seedlings; planting materials of tapioca and yam were provided for additional income generation. • IPM measures like use of yellow sticky trap, pheromone trap and neem oil. NRM-based module • Vegetable cultivation with polythene mulching and micro- irrigation through the installation of drip and sprinkler irrigation systems for water saving. Livestock module • Backyard poultry farming by providing Aseel and Kadaknath breed chicks. • Care of dairy animals and food supplements for improving milk production. HRD (Training imparted and demonstrations) • Scientific water management for increasing economic water productivity. • Pre-kharif vegetables and water management. • Empowerment of women farmers through paddy straw mushroom farming and vermicompost production. • Grafted brinjal demonstration and its scientific management practices. • Composite fish farming in community village ponds through SHGs. • Continuous technical backstopping and agro-advisory through the use of social/ digital media platforms (WhatsApp/ Cell Phone) for providing timely solutions to field problems. Daily harvest of vegetables ready for marketing better quality and colour, which fetches better prices in the market. As the land area is small, Smt Naik herself, her husband and her mother-in-law could do all farm activities on their own saving the entire labour cost. Smt Naik attended several farmers’ training programmes and exposure visits organized by the Institute, where she learned how to prepare Indian Farming 53 November 2024 vermicompost pits, mushroom cultivation beds, and raising pro-tray seedlings, etc.