 SERVICES» MORE> CONTACT Assam v Select Districy Select Village v Search Aalo 7 — Le Roin; hie RA Pasighat 5 ey) “ev X Daporijo —— Koloriang a Gis yr Jez Hawai _ a Nigh” - coil) Namsai Tawang x Coa, % 4 rahe a Dibrugarh Tinsukia } Thimphu yo al Seppa a Ras) k Bomdila (North a — - t sega _” Changlang — Itanagar me cme be — Bias Sivasagar oo fe) ~~ mae 4 Longding — af — se — ae Udalguri Biswanath, Jorhat he” Mae q ASSAM Tezpur_.Chariali id . : ; puri Alipurd Golaghat “1” ipurduar } Bongaigaon Nilbart Mangaldot lag! ;* Longleng Cooch Behar ac Barpeta Nagaon *” Mokokchung 4 ¥ mrs g 3D & Goalpara ° f Dispur j Wokha + jae” Restibélpata ué “Nongpoh Dimapur~ Kiphire = = ia Looe al { . yy aa] i, > x [nar b § Kohima ia & es) Nanactnin Shilinne wd 4 Peren es) Figure 3 : SmartKheti App Display Conclusion : This product will improve the quality of life of the farmers on the day to day bases, there will be improvement in the farm yield, save the water, make the crops safer against Viruses and other diseases, save the labour cost and keep the Government authorities fully informed about the expected farm produce on district level. Thus a big impact on the farming sector as a whole. After attending a number of Kisan Mela’s, interactions with the farmers and discussions with State Government authorities like Karnataka, Kerala, Tamil Nadu, Jharkhand, Odisha etc., it was observed that a small farmer cannot afford an expensive tool so a low cost tool has been developed that is easy to operate. Smartkheti provides all these features. TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 130 ISO 9001:2015 

News in Brief As the world grapples with the immense challenges of feeding a growing population, ensuring food security, and mitigating the impacts of climate change, the role of agriculture takes centre stage at the G20 Summit. This annual gathering of influential economies provides a platform for global leaders to address agricultural issues, promote sustainable practices, and foster innovation in the quest for a resilient and equitable global food system. The G20’s commitment to agriculture holds the key to nourishing our planet and unlock the potential for shared prosperity. By prioritizing agriculture, the G20 aims to foster a sustainable future for all. Food security lies at the heart of the G20’s agricultural agenda. To navigate the complexities of feeding a growing population sustainably, the G20 Summit serves as a platform for world leaders to chart a course towards a resilient and impartial global food distribution. With nearly 690 million people worldwide experiencing hunger, addressing this global challenge demands collective action. The G20 Summit enables leaders to discuss strategies to enhance agricultural productivity, improve supply chains and reduce food waste.