 CONCLUSION Mulberry plants flourish in water-deficient and low- fertility sandy soils of arid and semi-arid environments. Varieties released by ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner, exhibit precocity, regularity, and yield high-quality fruits. By employing appropriate post-harvest techniques, consumer- oriented packaging, and strategic marketing of fresh mulberry fruits along with processing them into various value-added products can establish mulberry as a lucrative Packaging in corrugated fibre boxes (CFB) and plastic punnet boxes and low-input-cost fruit crop in arid and semi-arid areas. For further interaction, please write to: Dr P S Gurjar, ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner, Rajasthan 334 000. *Corresponding author: pawan0996@gmail. com Mulberry RTS and squash Mulberry fresh fruit, dehydrated fruits and packaging of dry fruits Indian Horticulture 28 C LIMATE change-induced abiotic stresses threaten natural resources, agricultural productivity, and food security globally. To address these challenges, adopting climate-resilient technologies, especially for diversifying crops in India’s degraded lands (120 million ha) is essential. Recently, dragon fruit (Kamalam or Pitya or Pitahaya), a fruit of exotic tropical climbing semi-epiphytic vine cacti, has gained global recognition as a super crop in such harsh ecosystems. It offers huge potential of crop diversification, particularly in neglected underutilized barren degraded lands of India. A farmer of these regions has now started large-scale commercial farming, and is expected to rise exponentially over 50,000 ha in the next three years (MoA&FW, Government of India, 2023). This led to a steep increase in production in Gujarat, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal, Telangana, Tamil Nadu, Odisha, Gujarat and Andaman and Nicobar Islands, as well as in many north-eastern states. The fruit comes in several varieties, each with distinct shapes, sizes, and colours, but classified into three types i.e. Hylocereus undatus (pink peel with white flesh), Hylocereus polyrhizus (pink peel with red flesh or pink flesh), and Selenicereus megalenthus (yellow peel with white flesh). Being a fruit of perishable nature and short shelf life (5–7 days), minimizing postharvest losses is crucial, necessitating exploration of value-addition to continuously increase production and redirect surplus for processing. The challenges include optimizing harvesting, processing, and postharvest management practices, along with developing regional-specific cultivation protocols, including processing-friendly varieties. This will also be useful in resolving facts related to its adaptability, consumer acceptability, and marketability. The article discusses the current status of pre– and postharvest practices for fresh dragon fruit, emphasizing the development of value-added products for longer shelf life in India. Implementing these techniques can help mitigate marketing problems during seasonal oversupply.