 Attempts are being made to popularize under-utilized horticultural crops like aonla, garcinia, passion- DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 fruit, tamarind, jamun, bael, fig, custard-apple and date-palm which have particular relevance for the drought prone or arid areas of the country. INFOCROP-POTATO model to simulate potato development, growth and yield both under potential and suboptimum water conditions has been developed. In floriculture, in view of the potential of orchid a low-priced orchid-micropropagation method has been developed. In the fishery sector, attempts have been made to diversify freshwater acquaculture by including in our programmes catfish species with promising potential. In pursuance of the strategy to strengthen prevention of disease through health management practices in preference to disease treatment, immuno- stimulant technology for brackishwater acquaculture has been developed to prevent disease in shrimps. The Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, has developed a new chemical formulation ‘cifelostress’ to reduce external stress and resultant mortality of fish seed during transportation. A diagnostic kit for the detection of the White Spot Disease has been released and commercialized. Fibreglass canoes have been devised and commercialized by the Central Institute for Fisheries Technology, Kochi. New initiatives have been taken in respect of organic farming impact and adaptation to climate change. A comprehensive soil-map of India on 1 : 1 million scale has been developed. Cost-effective bioengineering measures of soil and water conservation have been devised. Appropriate approaches for managing saline soil and coastal ecosystems using their precise estimates have been obtained with the help of GIS technology. On the basis of data obtained from agro-meteorological stations all over the country, a model has been developed for advance estimation of national foodgrains productivity. During the year, the ICAR has made significant efforts towards providing the required fillip to conservation technologies, in collaboration with the Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) system and also under the National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). Resources conservation tillage and specially zero tillage has been extended to 0.3 million hectares during the year. This has led to a net saving of Rs 600 million annual benefit to the farming community. For the first time, scientists are working closely with the farming community in five Agro ecosystems across the country and have organized over 10,000 on-farm trials. Indigenous knowledge is also being documented under the NATP, and validated to protect indigenous intellectual right. As a new initiative, training programmes have been organized for the technological empowerment of women. Over 55,000 accessions have been collected and documented in plant, animal and fish bio-diversity.