 Using the nodal explants-derived embryogenic calli, the genetic transformation was successfully carried out using the ‘Biolistic’ approach, and up to ~5% transformation efficiency was achieved. Such an efficient, generalized and reproducible protocol has the potential to be a major tool for tropical maize improvement using transgenic and genome-edited techniques. Genome editing for improvement of drought and salt tolerance in rice Genome editing is a precision mutagenesis tool for genetic improvement of crops. CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing was used to develop mutants of DST (Drought and Salt Tolerance) gene encoding a Zinc finger transcription factor for improving salt and drought tolerance in rice. Three homozygous transgene free mutants were developed. WT and dst mutants grown in the same pot were exposed to three cycles of -90 kPa drought stress and recovered. Under these stress conditions, only about 25% WT plant survived, while dst mutants showed 100% survival. Further, dst mutants produced significantly higher yield than that WT plants both under non-stress and drought stress conditions. Similarly, WT and dst mutants grown in same pot were irrigated with 200 mM salt stress after panicle initiation, and were recovered after 15 days. All three dst mutants were more tolerant to salt stress and produced more grains as compared with wild-type MTU1010. Genome edited Drought and Salt Tolerance (DST) gene knock out mutant of MTU1010 exhibit enhance tolerance to salinity stress. Salt stress (200 mM) was imposed after panicle initiation for 15 days, and then recovered; WT, MTU1010; dstΔ366 bp dstΔ2bp and dstΔ24bp are mutants of MTU1010 with 366, 2 and 24 bp deletions, respectively. WT WT WT Δ366bp Δ2bp Δ24bp Performance of transgenic Bt pigeonpea resistant to Helicoverpa armigera. WT, Non-transgenic wild type; T, transgenic plants. Standardization of in-vitro regeneration and transformation protocol. (A) Genetic transformation in tropical maize using mature seed derived nodal explants based calli and (B-E) molecular confirmation of putative transformants. (B) GUS expression in calli 10 days after biolistic transformation. (C) PCR analysis using β-gusA specific primers. GUS expression in leaves (D) and roots (E) from PCR positive plants. Identification of resistant sources against fall armyworm (FAW), Spodoptera frugiperda: Towards the identification of resistant sources against FAW, 90 lines were evaluated under artificial infestation by releasing 20 neonate larvae/plant at the 5–6 leaf stage during kharif 2021. Three genotypes, viz. CML 44 BBB (3.4), DML 163-1 (3.5), IML 16-248 (4.0) recorded significantly lower Davis score on 1–9 scale. Genotype DMRE 63 which was found promising against FAW under choice condition during previous seasons was re- evaluated under no-choice condition through artificial CROP IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 59 infestation and has recorded significantly lower Davis score of 3.6.