 Pilot scale Menthol Crystal Production ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 120 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION graphite powder and was used to coat the cotton fabric to develop radiation protective fabric. Knitwear from jute fibre: Jute fabric is mostly confined to hessian and sackings bags due to its inherent rigid, low extension, rough surface and prickling properties. ICAR-NINFET has developed a protocol to induce softness and bulkiness of jute yarn. Jute yarn (6 lb/spindle) was scoured, subjected to woolenization treatment using sodium hydroxide and finished with a softener of 8-12% to introduce softness. The woolenized yarns were then bleached and dyed in different shades using reactive dyes for product diversification. The modified jute yarns have desirable softness, high bulkiness (diameter increased by 50%) and stretchability (extension >20% from 2%) similar to acrylic/woollen yarn. These woolenized jute yarns were utilized for production of sweater, stole, cap, socks and table/fruits cover. The development of soft and bulky jute-based textiles may open up a new diversified application in textile sector. Sustainable and rigid packaging box from jute stick: A formaldehyde-free particle board was developed from jute stick by using polyvinyl alcohol resin by the conventional hot press method at 100 kg/cm2 for 20 min at 140°C. The modulus of rupture of the developed particle board was 15 MPa and it satisfies the desirable property of Japanese Industrial standard for medium density particle boards for the development of packaging boxes. The developed packing box can hold about 5 kg of fruits and costs around ₹200-250 per piece. It is reusable and biodegradable and a good alternative to plastic crate for transport of fruits and vegetables. Natural fibre based vegan leather: A flexible bio-composite from Ramie, hemp and jute fibre as reinforcement and non-harmful plant latex-based polymer as matrix was developed. The flexible composite has 35-45% fibre content, 550-800 g/m2 areal density, 5-10 mm thickness of 5-10 mm, and 0.4-0.5 gpcc density. Absorbency time and capillary movement are almost similar to the wet blue natural leather (chrome treated leather) and superior to polyurethane based artificial leather sheet. Performance properties like permeability, shrinkage, tensile strength, tear strength and flexing are nearly matching those of natural leather. The product is breathable, flexible, resilient and biodegradable in nature and offers potential to develop high value fashion products from the under-utilized natural fibres. Food by-products based food grade coagulant mixture: Tofu or soybean curd, is mainly made by coagulating soymilk. Tofu whey, a by-product of tofu manufacturing, is currently discarded by the food industry. Tofu whey is highly perishable and needs quick treatment for effective utilisation. A tofu whey-based coagulant powder has been developed using overnight fermented tofu whey and tomato (TWTP).