 The easy availability of synthetic hormone formulations like Ovaprim, Ovatide, WOVA-FH, etc. in the 1990s has revolutionized seed production and made the country self-sufficient in seed production, and pushed the riverine seed collection to oblivion. Today, the life cycle of more than 30 important freshwater cultivable species have been closed in confinement. With recent trends of species diversification and introduction of new species into the culture system, more specialized hatchery systems have been developed for seed production on a commercial-scale for different species of minor carps & barbs, catfishes (magur, striped catfish, pabda), freshwater prawn, murrels, climbing perch, etc. Standardization of breeding protocols for different ornamental fishes, both indigenous and exotic, has created an important avenue of income for the rural poor as backyard cottage enterprise and contributed to boosting the ornamental trade. Production of quality seed for the sector has been given importance to harness the productive potential of different species through the adoption of selective breeding and milt cryopreservation technologies. The technologies developed by ICAR-CIFA in achieving higher growth performance of selective-bred rohu ‘Jayanti’ by over 50%, catla by 30% and giant freshwater prawn by 30% are testimonies of breakthroughs in ensuring quality seed production. The use of specialized broodstock diets like CIFABROODTM is bringing early maturity in carps. The technology of multiple breeding has made it possible for the same carp brood fish to breed 2-3 times) through stretching the breeding season using improved broodstock maintenance protocol. The technology could demonstrate 2-3 folds higher spawn recovery over conventional single breeding during a season. Significant efforts of the ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research (DCFR) have led to developing breeding and seed production technologies for several coldwater fish species including rainbow trout, mahseers and snow trout. The erstwhile Pond Culture Division of ICAR-CIFRI at Cuttack had been instrumental in developing most of the basic technologies of seed rearing in carp followed during the 1980s. Thereafter, a lot of efforts have gone to improvise the rearing method with the judicious use of resources with the production of quality seeds of important freshwater cultured species. The present-day packages of practices of nursery and rearing with simpler pond maintenance, efficient input use and high seed survival have helped in increasing the survival levels of 50- 60% in the nursery and 60-80% in the fingerlings rearing phase, thereby making the seed rearing quite farmers-friendly as well as an economically viable activity. The possibility of achieving 4-6 times higher fry yield per unit area with the use of large-concrete tanks has been demonstrated and following the practice, the farmers have been taking at least three crops in such a system during a season.