 Recognition of the importance of soil microorganisms has led to a renewed interest in measuring the quantum of nutrients Indian Farming 73 (06): 35-37; June 2023 held in their biomass and their consequential effect on crop responses on a sustainable basis. Amidst these facts, a still bigger question emerges, how effectively we can utilise the microbial niches of crop phytobiome to unlock the ongoing plateau in crop production. In this article we will discuss the possible contribution of agroecology beyond cop production sustainability. The current G20 summit under the lead role of India looks forward towards environmentally benign possibilities of sustaining, not only the crop production, but looks far beyond via environmental health for the safeguard of posterity. Agroecological implications: A regenerative approach Land degradation (96.4 million ha of degraded land accounting to 29.3% of the country's total geographical area of 328.7 million ha) neutrality has been one of the most vibrant strategies of national agriculture policy where coalition of conventional and traditional farming takes place with singular objectivity of sustainability through agroecology driven regenerative agriculture. India made some modest contribution to realise the strength of sustainable agriculture through: national project on organic farming; systematic rice intensification and zero budget natural farming, all put together under one umbrella towards Atmanirbhar Bharat. But, the basics of modern agriculture are never overlooked with regards to core issues like natural resource conservation, soil microbial diversity, resilience Indian Farming 36 June 2023 against forging climate change, expanding water intake capacity, scavenging soil contaminants, usage of cover crops (field buffers and plant strips on contours) for reduced run-off loss and maintaining the environmental health. While modern agriculture takes into account the rejuvenation of depleted land from physical, biological and chemical barriers, restricting the targeted optimised crop agronomy and aid further in recuperating the full potential for crop carrying capacity in a farming system module. Hence, agroecology based regenerative agriculture recognizes all sustainable practices those affect the natural systems and uses all the management techniques to restore the system towards improved crop productivity. While comparing regenerative agriculture with organic agriculture, both are well connected with agroecology, we comprehensively overlook the harmful effects of organic pesticides, which could be even more harmful than synthetic pesticides in organically produced crops. Are natural pesticides safer than artificial pesticides?, the answer could be both in both the ways. Surely, such scientific outcomes put an alarm bell to researchers and policy makers to keep a regular guard on health of agro-ecosystem using agroecology as a complete toolkit.