 These include the Palmer Drought Severity Index (PDSI; Palmer, 1965), the Crop Moisture Index (CMI; Palmer, 1968), the Soil Moisture Deficit Index (SMDI; Narasimhan and Srinivasan, 2005), the Soil Moisture Index (SMI; Sridhar et al., 2008) and Soil Water Deficit Index (SWDI; Martínez- Fern´andez et al., 2015). Additionally, some indices integrating multiple variables are proposed, such as the Temperature-Vegetation-SM Dryness Index (TVMDI, Amani et al. 2017), Temperature Vegetation Precipita- tion Dryness Index (TVPDI, Wei et al. 2020), Temperature-Vegetation- Shortwave infrared reflectance Dryness Index (TVSDI, Xu et al. 2022) Temperature-SIF-Water balance Dryness Index (TSWDI, Liu et al. 2023). While comprehensive, these indices necessitate multiple data inputs (Li and Cai, 2024). This study uses a standardised indices namely Standardized Soil Moisture Index (SSMI) and Empirical Soil Moisture Index (ESSMI) for assessing agricultural drought. These indices are capable of capturing dry and wet conditions across various timescales (1 to 24 months as monthly, seasonal and yearly). In addition, they are relatively easy to compute and needs minimal inputs (Carr˜ao et al. 2016; Liu et al., 2023). Both the indices differ how distribution is fitted to SM observations. SSMI uses a parametric approach whereas ESSMI uses a non-parametric approach. Satellite based SM is used in this study to compute SSMI and ESSMI. The ground-based or model-based SM estimations have their inherent limitations (Pal et al., 2016). The ground-based SM measure- ments pose challenges when employed for longer time periods and larger areas, while model-based estimations face problems because of the nonlinear structure of the model and its parameters (Nearing et al. 2018). Nowadays, Microwave remote sensing has been proven to be effective in determining geophysical properties such as SM by analysing brightness temperature and backscatter (Entekhabi and Njoku, 2010). This technology has opened the door for continuous large-scale moni- toring of agricultural drought by providing quality SM data on a global/ daily scale (Palagiri and Pal, 2022). One critical issue with satellite SM retrieval is its limitation to the surface soil layer (Entekhabi and Njoku, 2010). Agricultural drought is related to the availability of water for plants, which is stored not only in the surface soil layer but also in the root-zone layer. However, studies have shown a strong correlation be- tween surface and root-zone SM (Albergel et al., 2008, Hirschi et al., 2014, Martínez-Fern´andez et al., 2015), though the coupling weakens with depth (Wu et al., 2002, Ford et al., 2014) and could depend on prevailing hydro-meteorological conditions (Mahmood et al., 2012). Despite these limitations, satellite-based SM products are invaluable for large-scale agricultural drought assessments.