 Its culture extended over 10 lakh acres in the Gangetic region. In 1842, the total export from India was valued at £27 lakh. The trade in opium was a government monopoly. Sugarcane was a popular crop among the Indian farmers, and it was also exported to the United Kingdom in large quantities. The wheat yield in India varied with the conditions under which the crop was grown. For example, on unmanured and low rainfed/dry crop it produced 7 bushels per acre, whereas 10 bushels per acre on manured land with better rainfall and 15-25 bushels per acre on manured with irrigated land. After the construction of the Suez Canal in 1869, the export of oilseeds increased from £2 million to £5 million in a period of 19 years. The principal oil seeds were castor, gingelly, sesame, groundnut, safflower, rape, mustard, niger, linseed and cotton seed. The seeds of the fruits of several trees, such as Pongamia glabra, mahua and neem tree were also used for oil extraction and the trash was used as manure and cattle feed. The major spices were ginger, saffron, cardamom, pepper, cocoa, areca, and other palm- yielding nuts, which were extensively consumed by the native population. The principal indigenous fruits were mango, the finest of all the Indian fruits; pomegranate, citron, date, almond, grape, pine-apple, and tamarind. In the northern provinces, apple, pear, plum, apricot, and other European fruits were grown. Orange and lemon were also grown by the farmers. Pepper was an important product of the Malabar coast, and the import into Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 35 the United Kingdom from British India, in 1849, amounted to 3,913,611 pounds. Silk was produced primarily in Bengal and Assam. The mulberry thrived so freely in India that its culture expanded greatly beyond its present amount. 6.1. Crops introduced by the British Driven by their trade interests the British made efforts to introduce new crops, institutes and systems in Indian agriculture during the 18th and 19th centuries. Setting up of the Royal Botanical Gardens and the Botanical Survey of India to acclimatize exotic crops of commercial importance to Indian conditions were some of them. Pseudo cereals like oat, grain legumes like black bean, fibre crops like cotton, vegetables like beetroot, cauliflower, sweet pepper, squash, carrot, orange, lettuce, tomato, pea, fruits like papaya, strawberry, apple, apricot, cherry, plum, peach and pear; medicinal crops like quinine, and aromatic plants like poppy and vanilla were also introduced. 6.2. Crops rotation and mixed cropping Indian farmers used to practice crop rotation, and also followed mixed cropping. Often millets like jowar were sown mixed with leguminous crops like arhar. Rice was cultivated as a sole crop on silt-renewed lands that needed little or no manure, and which were plentifully supplied with water.