 Fodder: Chinese cabbage, a short duration fodder crop of rabi season, has potential to be cultivated as a catch crop and provides green fodder during scarcity period. Experiments of Chinese cabbage revealed that application of camel manure and chemical fertilization significantly improved the fodder yield. ❑ Coldwater fisheries resources of Arunachal Pradesh Tawang, West Kameng and Lower Subansiri districts of Arunachal Pradesh were investigated for the aquatic resources and potential fisheries development sites using GIS based mapping. High potential areas for fish farming were identified. Attempt was made to select potential areas where fisheries developmental activities such as culture and seed production can be undertaken. GIS based mapping of coldwater fisheries resources of Arunachal Pradesh 3. Climate Change and Resilient Agriculture District level vulnerability maps of Indian agriculture District level vulnerability maps of Indian agriculture to climate change were updated with 5th Assessment Report (IPCC 2014). These maps give climate projections based on ‘Representative Concentration Pathways’ (RCPs). The climate change hazard was derived using the climate change projections for RCP 4.5 for the period 2020–49. The output of the analysis of the three determinants of risk based on a number of indicators is given here. Climate resilient integrated organic farming system model: Climate resilient integrated organic farming system model for semi-arid region has been developed in one ha area for small and marginal farmers facing problems due to various kinds of abiotic stresses. Out of one ha area, 2500 m2 has been assigned to vegetable crops, 2500 m2 for sugarcane-based cropping sequence, 1000 m2 for fodder crops, 1000 m2 for cereals and pulse crops, 2000 m2 for orchard crops (pomegranate, sapota, custard apple, mango), 100 m2 pond for storage of water to provide irrigation to crops through drip and 500 m2 for poultry (Vanaraja, Kadaknath and ornamental breed), goatry (Osmanabadi breed), cattle (ghir) and compost unit. A solar-operated water pump (3 KV) has been installed near water storage pond for supporting irrigation to the crops. Efforts are being made to achieve 100% organic and self-dependent in nutrient requirement of the crops as well as feed and fodder requirement for livestock. Mango, lemon, dragon fruit and papaya have been planted on borders of all the experimental plots. Intercropping of chickpea was done in orchard crops for revenue generation from orchards during initial years. Similarly, intercropping of drumstick has been done with Napier grass for getting maximum return. To ensure regular and daily income, vegetable crops such as bhindi, cowpea, cabbage, tomato, bottle gourd, pumpkin, onion, garlic, coriander and sweet corn crops were planted in an area of 2500 m2.