 Sero-epidemiological and molecular detection of Brucella infection and assessment of economic costs and control options: This collaborative project (ILRI, NIVEDI & IVRI) aims at assessing prevalence and risk factors of Brucella-infection in dairy cattle and buffalo in urban and rural areas and to do spatial mapping of geographical distribution of Brucella-infection in the surveyed areas (Assam, Bihar and Odisha), economic loss (direct and indirect) caused by brucellosis, knowledge, attitude and practices of farmers relevant to brucellosis and to identify risk management and control A woman dairy farmer with Murrah buffalo Traders chopping strow for marketing ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 56 options and to assess prevalence, risk, economic cost and control options in small ruminants and humans. The field work has now been finished and laboratory analyses is ongoing. 3.4. Assessment of antimicrobials and antimicrobial resistance (AM) in livestock with special emphasis on dairy animals: The objectives include understand use of antimicrobials at state and farm level in dairy and poultry sector (Haryana and Assam), screen dairy and poultry samples for presence (qualitative and quantitative) of AM residues, study the surveillance of antimicrobial resistance in dairy and poultry sector, screen probiotics & their metabolites as alternative therapeutics in the mitigation of AB resistance, identify innovations and incentives that could improve the use of antimicrobials and piloting them in the field and support the institutions and policy facilitation necessary for scaling out. The field work has now been finished and laboratory analyses is ongoing. 3.5. Development of goat meat /milk value chain in Bihar & UP: This project, in which ILRI is collaborating with the Central Institute of Research on Goats (Mathura), the Sanjay Gandhi Institute of Dairy Technology (Patna) and the National Dairy Research Institute (Karnal), aims at identifying suitable interventions for pro poor goat value chain development, starting with a value chain assessment at various nodes of the value chain. Both meat and milk value chains are being considered. The data collection is going on and data analysis has started concurrently. A stakeholders’ workshop will be held in March 2017 to get a common understanding on the most promising interventions. Interventions will be assessed by their ability to provide improved market access for poor goat keepers in marginal areas, allowing investments in improved production technologies to be more attractive. Following the identification of the most relevant initial intervention opportunities, these will be implemented on a pilot basis with local partners in the second phase of the project. Scientist collecting blood sample for analysis ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 57 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES The work plan for the five ICAR funded projects for the next year is detailed below Sl. No.