 • Collection and screening of 25 accessions from five wild chickpea (C. judaicum, C. reticulatum, C. microphyllum, C. bijugum, C. cuncatam) and three cultivars of chickpea (C. arietinum) (reported to be mild tolerant) for defence against H. armigera was done. • Trypsin protease inhibitor gene (Ti) from ILWC- 46 (accession from C. reticulatum that had highest Trypsin Inhibitor protein) was cloned. • Construction of a cisgenic cassette for the expression of Trypsin protease inhibitor gene (Ti) from cultivated and wild accessions of chickpea driven by a RUBISCO SSU promoter from chickpea has been completed. • Promoter sequences (1000 base pair) of FHG (Floral Homeotic gene) and MADS (Minichromosome Maintenance1, Agamous, Deficient and Serum response protein) genes that expressed at high level in flower and pod wall of chickpea were isolated and validated through GUS expression. Natural resource management • The modelling studies suggested that the effect of global warming on soil organic carbon in majority of soils in India will be minimal as the warming effect will be foremost at mean annual temperatures below 25ºC. • Quantification of C footprint of agriculture in Punjab showed that the current carbon equivalent (CE) emissions (4705 Gg) are 3-times higher than in 1980–81. Groundwater irrigation and fertilizer use have dominant influence on C footprint of food grain production. Carbon cost per unit grain production (kg CE M/g) was highest for rice (693) followed by wheat (207) and least for maize (152). While carbon use efficiency of rice has decreased over time (15.5 to 7.8) that for maize remained stable between 11.9 and 14.8. The environment footprint of food grain production can be reduced by diversifying to less water requiring crops, improving irrigation water productivity and pumping efficiency, and increasing fertilizer use efficiency. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 112 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT Economics, Statistics and Management The impact of heat-stress on wheat and effects of adaptation measures, viz. irrigation was assessed. Also quantified the effects of climatic hazards on agricultural growth, and the role of important adaptation measures towards mitigating the adverse effects on growth. ICAR National Fellow ICAR operates National Fellow scheme with the twin objectives to promote excellence at national level in agricultural research and education and to recognize the meritorious contribution of individual agricultural scientists/teachers and facilitate their research and related activities in agriculture. There are 25 positions of National Fellows across National Agricultural Research and Education System. During the period under report, 18 National Fellows were in position. The areas of specialization in which they carried out research work were as diverse as horticulture, animal science, fishery science, natural resource management, agricultural engineering and economics, statistics and management.