 (8° N, 76° E) and Kozhikode (11° N, 75° E) were used to develop extracts/fractions, Bacillus megaterium RE7: a root endophyte of groundnut Targeted gene integration in rice and cotton: The available plant transformation methods poses challenges such as random integration, multiple transgene copies and unpredictable transgene into a predetermined locus in the plant genome. Therefore, a technique was developed for gene integration into the desired sites on chromosomes. The efficacy of the method was tested in rice and the success rate was as high as 17%. This technique was, for the first time, applied in transgenic research studies in plants. Schematic diagram of the target gene integration strategy Sulfated glycosaminoglycan (PIP-2) isolated from brown mussel Perna indica Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 32 which were chromatographically fractionated to obtain oligosaccharide fractions. PIP-2 purified from brown mussel Perna indica was exem- plified as [→1)-6-O-SO3-β-GalNAcp-(3→1)-β- GlcAp-(4→], exhibited an anti-inflammatory effect on lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced macrophages. The sulfated glycosaminoglycan at different concentration ranges (10-50 μg/ mL), downregulated the secretion of pro- inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1β (1.18-1.46 pg/mL), IL-6 (0.75-1.17 pg/mL), TNF-α (3.9-4.82 pg/mL) in LPS induced RAW 264.7 cells. Purified polysaccharide (SCP-2) derived from Saccostrea cucullata yielded [→4)-β-GlcNSp- (1→4)-α-GlcAp-(1→3)-β-GlcNSp(1→]. SCP-2 downregulated nitric oxide production in LPS- stimulated RAW 264.7 macrophage cells with an IC50 of 5.4 μg/mL. A sulfated glycosaminoglycan, PVP-2, purified from the crude polysaccharide extract of Perna viridis, was established spectroscopically as [→4)-β-GlcNSp-(1→4)- β-GlcNSp-{(3→1)-α-GlcAp}-(1→]. At 3 μg/mL, PVP-2 effectively restores nitric oxide levels to homeostasis by downregulating excessive production. In further in vivo studies, SCP-2 and PVP-2 at 110 and 22 mg/kg body weight, respectively demonstrated a time-dependent escalation in the suppression of carrageenan- induced paw edema and effectively reduced edema by greater than 80% by the end of the 5-hour mark, mirroring the results achieved by the standard drug indomethacin (87%) at a dose of 10 mg/kg body weight. Novel approaches for disease free health certification in finfish and development of high health shrimp for sustainable aquaculture: For developing MAbs, serum immunoglobulins (sIgs) of three Indian major carps, Labeo rohita, Catla catla and Cirrhinus mrigala were purified by affinity chromatography. Healthy fish were immunized with bovine serum albumin (BSA) to induce anti-BSA antibodies. Purified sIgs analysed by SDS-PAGE revealed two bands of ~80 kda and ~27 kDa, corresponding to heavy chains and light chains, respectively. Gel filtration chromatography of the sIgs revealed mixture of tetramers, dimers, monomers and half-mers in the purified preparation.