 With the support and guidance of project scientists, she was able to sell her produce at a minimum support price. In this way, her gross income from paddy alone reached `2,14,200, making a net profit of approximately `1,24,000 by 2022-23 in 6-7 years period. Before FFP interventions, she used to grow vegetables only for her family’s consumption purposes. Because of a lack of irrigation facilities and technical know-how, she could not cultivate commercially. During 2017-18, she was provided with 400 saplings of the ‘Mahy Green’ hybrid variety of brinjal, the required quantity of NPK fertilizers and IPM inputs like neem-based pesticides, pheromone traps and yellow sticky traps by the project scientists through FFP. Domestic drinking water supply was the only source of water for her, which she used to store in a cement tank. Along with her old mother-in- law, she nurtured 400 brinjal plants with a lot of care in her backyard, irrigating each plant with the help of bucket and mug. Lack of resources could not defeat her willpower and she earned over `79, 500 net profits that year by selling brinjal from an area of 0.20 acre only in one season, which was the highest profit till then in her entire life. This was the turning point of her successful journey. Thereafter, she could realize the strength of scientific vegetable farming with proper crop and water management. She properly utilized that profit money with a suitable long-term investment plan by digging a deep bore well in 2019-20 in her backyard that could provide sufficient water for irrigating at least 1.0 acre of land attached to her backyard kitchen garden. Adoption of new technologies With the support of this deep bore well, proper irrigation scheduling and limited recourses, she was able to cultivate vegetables on a commercial scale adopting proper crop diversifications and crop rotations with brinjal, tomato, chilli, okra, cowpea, cabbage, cauliflower and seasonal greens, etc. She grew vegetables mostly organically using poultry manure, cow dung and neem oil on her farm. Presently, she is able to get continuous harvest of marketable surplus based on seasons and is able to send vegetables to the local as well as district level Smt. Gitanjali Naik receiving ‘Best Farmwoman Award’ from Dr T. Mohapatra, the then Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR during the 35th Institute Foundation Day on 12 May 2022 Bitter gourd cultivation using trellis Indian Farming 52 November 2024 market. She used to transplant the tomato and brinjal seedlings on raised beds with poly-mulch films laid with proper irrigation. She follows a package of practices with fertigation and plant protection recommendations as per the suggestions given by the scientists of ICAR-IIWM. The practice of mulching helped her in cost-saving in the form of moisture conservation, weed suppression and maintenance of soil health.