 However, such numbers of grants will also depend upon the availability of competent candidates for the fellowships. The award of international fellowships programme has been intiated only during 2009-10 and, therefore, no trend value has been indicated for the FY 08-09. Capacity building and faculty upgradation of teachers will be measured from the number of teachers trained per year. Objective 8. Strengthening of agricultural extension system and promoting gender issues The success indicators with respect to operation of e-connectivity of KVKs are the actual number of e-connectivity facilities created. The success indicators of the establishment of demonstration/ training facilities for soil & water testing, rain water harvesting etc. indicates the actual number of KVKs provided with these facilities during the period. Actual number of new KVKs established during the period is the success indicator which is measured in terms of the target achieved against the target set during the year. Demonstration and trainings organized are measured with the actual numbers of such programmes/ activities undertaken by the KVKs. A weight of 1.40 is assigned with this activity. Regarding support for promoting gender issues is measured through the success indicators of actual number of gender related technology promotion programmes to reduce drudgery in farm operation by women. page : 14 of 16 (2011-2012) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Section 5: Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments 1. Strengthening of agricultural universities will depend on their initiative / responsiveness, including the timely implementation of plans by the respective SAUs. 2. The quantity of breeder seed produced is based on the quantity indented by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, which in turn collects indents from various seed agencies including State Departments of Agriculture. 3. Establishment of KVKs and strengthening of existing KVK shall depend upon timely availability of sufficient funds and other resource4s and cooperation from state departments and local bodies and a smooth implementation by the agencies managing KVKs. 4. Technology adoption would depend upon the proactive role of development departments namely DAC, DAHD & AF and SAUs etc. 5. Financial support as per EFC/SFC allocation of institutes under Horticulture Division including AICRP/Network projects. 6. Support from SAUs, KVKs and line department for promotion of adoption of technologies developed by the institutes. 7. The major role will be of collecting detailed information on various parameters as per the formats developed by NBAGR, Karnal, hence the state SAUs, AH departments, NGOs and actual animal keepers will play a key role in providing the desired information. 8.