 These antibodies demonstrated proof of concept, indicating their utility in developing immunodiagnostic methods for detecting and quantifying PAGs in various biological samples. Subsequently, PAG-7, IoT enabled Image analyzer for Cr6+ detection Sensor for apple scab disease (ix) SMART sensor for non-destructive detection of apple scab disease at asymptomatic stage: Apple scab disease can be detected early, when plants are asymptomatic, using this low-cost handheld sensor developed by IIT Roorkee and ICAR- CITH. Apple scab, caused by the fungus V. inaequalis, is a serious apple disease, causing 50-60% damage to apples. Multiple sprays of fungicides are currently used to control the disease, which is costly and toxic to the environment and health. An early asymptomatic detection of scab disease will allow for proper control measures to be implemented in a localized area, thereby reducing fungicide usage and disease spread. A metal-oxide and nanomaterial- based sensor was developed to detect scab IMAGinE: an IoT enabled Image analyzer Stabilized and specific receptor 96 well plate enabled Single board computing module Camera module Android based mobile GUI LED array for optimum lighting 10000 mAh power bank LxBxH: 18.5 cm x 10.5 cm x 14.5 cm Device Specification: Prominent Success Stories Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 78 PAG-18 and PAG-2 were utilized as key resources in developing ELISA and Lateral Flow Immunoassay-based kits for point-of- care pregnancy diagnosis. An Indian patent No.202011026145 has been filed based on these results. Preg- D bovine pregnancy diagnosis kit 79 NASF has been successful in fostering the basic, strategic & translational research in agriculture and allied areas in the country. The existing infrastructure of NARS has been strengthened through the funding support. The support has led to procurement of many sophisticated analytical instruments equipping the laboratories of multiple research institutions and universities for conduct of major long-term research capacity development activity. Global state-of-the art research facilities created through NASF support is an asset and will pave the way for the new path breaking research in the future. Many innovative products and diagnostics and vaccines have been developed, patented and commercialised. New research methodologies have been developed leading to many new varieties in crop. A large number of scientists from various institutions have worked in multidisciplinary areas through multi- institutional projects. They have developed and sharpened their knowledge and skills in frontier areas of science and also availed overseas training in cutting edge areas. All these activities not only upgraded the knowledge and skills but also enabled them to build professional contact with other scientific institutions working in their areas of interest.