 Later, the field is to be made into small plots with convenient sizes based on the availability of land and topography of the soils, and ensure that proper drainage should be provided. Senna is propagated through seed. In general, senna is grown as a rainfed crop based on onset of monsoons. In western India, June-July sowing is the Table 1. Senna varieties Variety Description Source of availability ALFT-2 It is a late flowering type and produces high foliage yield. It is widely grown in Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. AAU, Anand KKM-Sel 1 It is suitable to Killikulam and Tuticorin districts of Tamil Nadu. TNAU, Coimbatore Tinnevelly Senna It is semi-spreading type more popular in Tamil Nadu. TNAU, Coimbatore Sona It is suitable for north Indian conditions. It gives yield about 1.1 tonnes dry herbage and 0.4 tonnes seed and it contains 3.51%sennoside. CIMAP, Lucknow ideal time for sowing senna. Whereas in southern India, September-October sowing is ideal to utilize the residual moisture after paddy harvesting. Senna is grown either by the broadcasting of seed or line sowing. But line sowing is better than the broadcasting method where it facilitates the intercultural operation and optimum crop stand leads to higher yield. For growing 1 ha of land by broadcasting method, 25 kg of seed is required in rainfed areas, whereas 12-15 kg of seed is sufficient to raise one ha under irrigated conditions. About 6 kg seed is sufficient for 1 ha land area by seed dibbling method. The seed should be treated with Thiram 3g/kg of seed to avoid seedling diseases at the early stage of the crop. Care should be taken that the seed should be sown 1-2 cm deep into the soil to get good germination. Immediately after sowing, irrigation is to be provided to get maximum germination percentage and a good crop stand. The seed should be sown in the spacing of 45 × 30 cm in lines by seed dibbling method to obtain higher yields. Crop management Senna is cultivated as a rainfed crop but if irrigation is provided, it gives higher yields. About 2-4 irrigations are provided during the crop period based on the weather and soil moisture conditions. Two irrigations are important in crop critical stages, one is immediately after sowing and the second one is at 30 days after sowing if the soil moisture is inadequate. It can tolerate water scarcity but it is sensitive to continuous rainy days and water logging conditions. Prolonged rainy days in its growth period spoil the senna produce. However, light rains as drizzling during the crop period enhance crop growth and development. The crop should be kept free from weeds. The first weeding should be done at 25-30 days of sowing and also thinning is to be done to maintain the optimum plant population.