 Jalali, scientist, is Biological Control attending to the farmers’ problems, who are experimenting on the ability of Cheilomenes sexmaculata to suppress the increasingly opting for IPM aphids from attacking the cotton plant ~ The Mexican beetle Zygogramma bicolorata, imported in 1983, has been dispersed over Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh to control the Parthenium weed-infested fields, pastures and wastelands. The beetle is safe, since it cannot complete its development on any cultivated plant in the country 5 tar African marigold distracts the fruit- borer Helicoverpa armigera from at- tacking the tomato. Instead the resis- tant and immigrant fruit-borer moths lay creamy white eggs on the tight flower buds and petals of the fully opened marigold flowers. The borer is known to depress yield up to 50% The free-floating Eichhornia crassipes, water hyacinth, has spread across the globe to at least 50 countries. Within the country more than 150,000 adults of weevils Neochetina eichhorniae, N. bruchi and mite Orthogalumna terebrantis have been released into 15 states. The biological control is very effective, yet safe for the cultivated plants The ICAR has a National Centre for Integrated Pest Management at the IARI, New Delhi, for evolving environmentally sound pest-management strategies to counter the pest-and-disease problem in major crops. The Project Directorate of Biological Control, Bangalore, is, however, exclusive in its approach. The major pests of rice, cotton, pulses and Sugarcane may now be managed through integrated pestmanagement (IPM). Pyrilla and top-borer of sugarcane, mealy bug of citrus, grape, guava and coffee, lepidopterous pests of cotton, tobacco, coconut and sugarcane may be managed through release of bio-control agents. Mass-rearing technology for biotic agents Trichogramma spp, Chrysoperla spp. and nuclear polyhedrosis virus (NPV) of Helicoverpa and Spodoptera has been widely adopted by the farmers. Aquatic weeds, Eichhornia crassipes (water- hyacinth) and Salvinia molesta (water-fern) may also be managed through biological control. Important species of rodents associated with different crops have been identified. Their population in wheat and rice crops can be kept in safe limits with anti- coagulent rodenticides. Definite schedules for controlling nematode pests in wheat, rice, pulse and oilseed crops, plantation crops and fruit and vegetable crops have been prescribed. Depredatory birds may now be kept off by the use of reflecting tapes. Most seed- borne diseases may now be prevented by sowing/planting of disease-free material or by coating it with fungal or bacterial antagonists. There are stringent certification standards. Disease forecasting leads to timely application of fungicides in protecting the apple orchards from apple-scab.