 (a) Subjects of specialization al the highest degree/diploma (b) Subjects of specialization at the lower degree /diploma 3. Additional qualifications/training acquired in India and/or abroad (list of all part-time or short-time trainings, not included in the educational career. Give dates, duties and duration of course). 4. Employment record oflast five/ten years ending on ..................... starting ,vith your present post. list in reverse order eve1y employment you have had. Name of employing De3ignation Salary/ Date Date Nature of organization pay scale of of duties joining leaving actually performed -------" --- - ------- - ---------- - . ----- .. -·----- ---- -. ------------ ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECflNICAL SERVICES " 5. (a) Honours/awards e1c. (b) (i) Membership of professional societies (ii) Offices and committees assignments held in professional societies (c) Special invitations (this would refer to specific invitations to an individual to present a paper before professionally oriented meeting or 10 participate/ conduct a seminar) (d) Special assignments covered (list each one giving dates) and briefly describe the work done (e) Duration of absence from the institute for foreign visits, etc. during the 5-10 years period (the number of months may be specified) 6. Is there any other type of work than your present job/ assignment that you would rather do in the inslitute or outside? If yes, please indicate 7. Please give below the productivity statement in respect of the work done by you during the period underreview (This is intended to reflect the actual performance by the reviewee during 5/10 years. Some of the items may not be applicable to the individuals based on the nature of the duties assigned. In such cases he/she may indicate against the items that it is not applicable. For items (a) to (e) please indicate the numbers only.) (The items included in the statement are only illustrative and not exhaustive) Productivi1y (a) Technical support for scientific work. such as: number of animals managed area of !and/fish J)Onds managed number of projects served others (please specify) Past 5/10 years 28 ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES Producttv1ty Past 5110 years lb) Traimng work such as: course (to be) taught special lecruresltalks given by member Chairman/student advisory committees Others (please specify} (c) Extension education work such as: radioitelevision talks field trips exhibitions fannersiculttvators ( to be) contacted others (please specify) (d) Team-work and co-operation mentioning specifically inter-disciplinary, inter-institutional and intra-mstinmonal activities in which you were involved le) Institution !building activities. such as: Membership in special committees,' 1ask-force organizing seminarsisymposia in the institution any other (please specify) (f) unpublished reports, papers. etc.