55% growth inhibition of M. perniciosa. ❑ CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 90 7. Livestock Management Nutrition Development of antioxidant-enriched agro-waste- based maize replacer (AEMR): Antioxidant- enriched agro-waste-based maize replacer (AEMR) was developed by subjecting agro-wastes like apple pomace, spent mushroom compost, and wheat straw to self-fermentation under controlled conditions. The level of maize replacement in the concentrate mixture was assessed to be 32% under in vitro and in vivo trials. AEMR feeding to Gaddi goats improved their feed conversion ratio (FCR; 10.61) without exhibiting any adverse impact on total body weight gain and average daily weight gain compared to the control (12.89). The feeding also resulted in beneficial shifts in LDL and HDL serum levels, and significantly enhanced serum oxidative stability. Furthermore, the meat obtained from AEMR- fed Gaddi goats showed higher oxidative stability as indicated by lower TBARS values and higher antioxidant activity. Effect of postbiotics in broiler diets: The administration of postbiotics significantly increased the production parameters. Administration of postbiotics performance in reducing oocyst shedding was comparable to coccidiostat (diclazuril) fed birds but there was a 50% reduction in oocyst shedding than untreated groups. Eimeria oocyst was gradually decreased from 5 to 11 dpi with lower counts in diclazuril followed by postbiotics and control. The performance of postbiotics at 0.6% supplementation in reducing the severity of Eimeria is comparable to commercially available coccidiostat 0.1% diclazuril without compromising the production and economics of broiler production. petals and bel giri @ 70-140 g/head/d in Frieswal breeding bulls for 4-6 months improved sexual performance and semen quality parameters. Another formulation containing herbs, viz. ashwagandha, gokhru, shatawari, safed musli, shia musli, bidarikand and sahajan seeds @ 35-70 g/head/day for 120 days also improved semen quality parameters in Frieswal bulls. Physiology Identifying estrus in buffaloes through salivary fern-like patterns: A potential non-invasive biomarker from saliva was explored and a microscopic method was developed. The applicability of this method was tested on 582 potential estrus events in various field scenarios, confirming its accuracy at a remarkable 91% in detecting early estrus right at farmers’ doorsteps, with the assistance of Foldscope. To facilitate the recognition of these microscopic salivary patterns, a computer vision- based mobile app called ‘Mahishee Mitr’ (beta version) was developed. Agro-waste antioxidant- enriched maize replacer (AEMR) Improved bioreactor prototype for cattle waste management was designed and fabricated for handling cow dung for biogas production.