 If black plastic mulch is not used then on a sunny day, weeding can be done by removing Interaction with farmers regarding low tunnel technology Visit to farmer's field polythene partially. Manure and fertilizers At the time of soil preparation, 20-25 tonnes of farmyard manure is added per acre to the soil. The inorganic fertilizers at the rate 50 kg N (110 kg Urea), 25 kg P2O5 (175 kg Superphosphate) and 12 kg K2O (20 kg Muriate of Potash) should be applied per acre. Add whole quantity of P2O5, K2O and 1/3 of N at the time of transplanting and rest of N should be applied in two equal doses one and two months after transplanting. Harvesting and marketing Harvest the crop when the fruits are fully developed, green and shining. For marketing purpose, wrap the capsicum in heat shrinkable or cling film and pack in paper moulded trays. This improves the shelf life and retains the quality for 7 days in ordinary market (28-30°C) and 10 days in super market (18-20°C) conditions. Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana recommends this technology for growing capsicum, cucumber, brinjal and tomato. Growing vegetables in low tunnel has many advantages with regards to increase in yield, early availability of vegetables, conserving soil warmth and protecting plant from cold wind and frost. Therefore, by adopting this technology, farmers can capture the market in the early season which ultimately increases their net profit. For further interaction please write to: Arti Verma, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Langroya Distt. Shaheed Bhagat Singh Nagar (Punjab). *Corresponding author email: artiverma@pau.edu Capsicum KTC-1: Identified and recommended for cultivation in Zone-I. It is an open pollinated variety of capsicum with non-pungent, bell shape with attractive green fruits having 5–6 lobes at marketable stage and turn orange at maturity. It has potential fruit yield of 21.3 t/ha under open field conditions. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) November–December 2021 15 H ypsizygus ulmarius commonly called as “Elm Oyster” or “Blue Oyster” is similar to oyster mushroom but differs in morphological and biological efficiency. It is a novel species with very large fruiting bodies, blue coloured pinheads becoming light white on maturity, high yielder, palatable with meaty flavour and attractive keeping quality. This mushroom variety has attractive shape and is fleshy with excellent taste. The yield, sporophore size, flavour and texture of this mushroom is far superior as compared to other commercial oyster mushrooms like Pleurotus florida or Pleurotus sajor-caju presently being grown in Himachal Pradesh. Aditya*, R S Jarial and Kumud Jarial Technology Scientific cultivation of Blue oyster mushroom The global food and nutritional security of growing population is a great challenge, which looks for new crop as a source of food and nutrition.