 The recommended SWCPs such as watershed engineering and mechanical measures are skill- oriented, expensive and difficult to implement and maintain on marginal/small hilly farms. This article proposes some of the simplest yet cost-effective and affordable SWCPs to mitigate moisture stress while expanding rabi agriculture and improving existing low cropping intensity (~120%) for food and nutritional security in the region. Keywords: Hill agriculture, Rain water harvesting, Soil moisture conservation, Water deficit agriculture U NTIL recent decades, agricultural drought was very rare in the highlands of north- east India. However, in the recent decades (1991–2020), the uncertainty of rainfall occurrence and spatial distribution has doubled, (coefficient of variation, CV: 27.8%) relative to the distant past (1901–1930). There has been a considerable increase in the incidence of agricultural drought like scenarios, even in monsoons (June–September). Occurrence of droughts in the early parts of the monsoon months forces the farmers to delay planting of rainy (kharif) crops and incur severe losses in crop yields. Delay in harvesting the kharif crops, delays the sowing of the resulting rain-fed winter (rabi) crops and is exposed to severe water stress during the dry months (November– March, <200 mm annually). Soil moisture content in sloping uplands during this period is less than the critical threshold (<15% weight/ weight) to support cultivation of winter crops including vegetables. Indian Farming 73 (04): 13-17; April 2023 The lack of structured irrigation facilities and rolling topography makes it difficult to access certain small but dispersed bodies of water and increases the risk of partial or complete crop failure. This compels farmers to rely on kharif monsoon crop, while during the rabi season, the same land stays fallow. As a result, cropping intensity (~120%) and crop-land utilization index (<40%) in these region remains one of the lowest in the country. Lack of appropriate efforts to harvest monsoon rain, restrict its use in meeting upland crop water requirements during rabi season. Unfortunately, recommended soil water conservation practices (SWCPs) in the literature, such as watershed engineering and mechanical measures, involve huge initial investment, skills to implement and are difficult to self-sustain. Poor rural and socio- economic environments, with marginal land holdings of the region’s farming population cause extremely low-level of adoption of these costly and collaborative SWCPs. Affordable in situ soil moisture conservation measures In situ conservation of soil moisture is primarily about preserving rainwater in the soil matrix (recharge of the soil moisture profile) for a longer period by increasing infiltration, while reducing surface runoff, storm water and evaporation. This practice aims at retaining soil moisture in the root zone and making it available for in situ root uptake during the periods of water stress.