 Fish production from the sewage-fed impoundments has been a practice that evolved since the 1930s and was largely practiced by the fish farmers of West Bengal. The Rahara Centre of ICAR-CIFA, which formerly was under ICAR-CIFRI before reorganization of institutes, has undertaken studies on the various kind of sewage, its utilization for fish farming and the after-effect on fish as well as in the food chain. Fish production levels of 3.0-5.0 t ha-1 yr-1 have been demonstrated under carp polyculture, and monoculture of C. reba and L. bata in sewage- fed ponds. Paddy-cum-fish culture, with customized models for different regions, has also shown its potential with the production of about 500 kg fish and 2.5-3.5 tons of deep-water paddy in one hectare. The practice is being successfully adopted in several parts of Odisha, Assam, and other Northeastern states. Enclosure aquaculture (cage and pen culture) has been a promising intervention to increase the fish production potential of the large water bodies, as was demonstrated over these years by ICAR-CIFRI. The institute has demonstrated stock enhancement in selected wetlands of Assam through pen culture which had later been adopted in many chaur and Indian Agriculture after Independence 186 moan resources of eastern Indian States including Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand and flood plains of Assam and West Bengal. The Bangalore center of ICAR-CIFA has also worked towards developing cage farming technology in reservoirs during the 1980s and 1990s. Several schemes have been brought by NFDB with the technology partnership of ICAR-CIFRI and implemented through State Fisheries Departments to increase the cage farming activities in open waters. Such activities are implemented with an integrated approach as an alternative livelihood and income generation programme under the Blue Revolution Scheme of the Government of India. With the financial support of the RKVY scheme, Chhattisgarh was the pioneer state to start commercial cage farming in 2007-08 in reservoirs. High production levels of 3.0-4.0 tons of P. hypophthalmus per cage (6 m × 4 m × 4 m) were achieved in 6-8 months of rearing. Later, the cage farming technology has been adopted in the reservoir systems of many states especially in Jharkhand, Bihar, Odisha and Maharashtra. 2.2.1.4. Aquaculture in upland region The fisheries development in the upland region till the last century was mostly concentrated on stocking the streams and lakes with fry and fingerlings of desired species. Several exotic trout species were imported to Kashmir in the first half of the twentieth century to enhance sport fishing. ICAR-DCFR has been working towards improving fish production potential through culture-based capture fisheries and developing cage farming technology for the utilization of Himalayan lakes. In the mid-2010s, the Institute imported two improved Hungarian common carp strains and demonstrated their superior growth in the upland areas.