 Livestock Himachal Pradesh: In Garola and Ullansa of Chamba district of Himachal Pradesh, 101 milch crossbred goats Reaching the unreached through promotion of spices Tribal farmers (1998) at Pottangi (Odisha), Chintapalle (Andhra Pradesh) and Raigarh (Chhattisgarh) were benefited through training and demonstration on cultivation of spices. • Organic ginger and turmeric cultivation, seed storage and post-harvest management in turmeric and ginger. • Improved cultivation of spice varieties and post- harvest process in black pepper and long pepper. • Integrated pest management in spices. • Black pepper cuttings (5,500), seedlings (1,678) of cinnamon, seedlings (1,500) of cardamom, turmeric rhizomes (20 tonnes), ginger rhizomes (15 tonnes) and coriander seeds (2.5 q) were distributed to tribal farmers. including 10 bucks, fodder, feed, mineral mixture, and medicine kits were distributed Jharkhand: ICAR-IIAB supported 1,008 tribal farm families from 10 villages of Latehar, Hazaribag, and Ranchi districts. ICAR-IIAB supported more than 1,000 scheduled caste beneficiaries of Latehar, Khunti, Hazaribagh, Ramgarh, Giridih and Deoghar districts by providing agricultural machineries like power tillers, pump sets, automatic spraying machines, etc. besides critical agricultural inputs like high-quality seeds, fertilizers, and insecticides. North Eastern Hill (NEH) Programme: ICAR- IVRI, Eastern Regional Station (ERS), Kolkata organized various activities in collaboration with KVK-Geyzing, West Sikkim; KVK-Goalpara, Assam; KVK-Dhubri, Assam and KVK-Ri-Bhoi, Meghalaya. Piglets and pig feed were distributed to beneficiaries. Karnataka: In Karnataka, TSP was implemented in Jadeswammy Doddi, Sebinakobe, Budipadaga and Kavlikatte dam of Kollegal taluk, Chamaraja Nagar district, and goat units were distributed. Bull calves were also distributed among tribal beneficiaries of Chamaraja Nagar district. In addition to this, mineral mixture, aluminum buckets and dewormers were distributed among the selected beneficiaries for good goat husbandry practices. Maharashtra: Two tribal villages of Nandurbar district and one tribal village of Nashik district were chosen for promoting goat husbandry for livelihood support. A unit, comprising one male and four female Osmanabadi goats, were distributed to 10 tribal beneficiaries. Uttarakhand: Backyard poultry farming was introduced in Sunkharikala and Jhankt village of Sitarganj block of US Nagar district of Uttarakhand. Beneficiaries were provided chicks of CARI-Debendra (No. 500), feed supplements, chicken wire net, feeder and drinker. West Bengal: In four tribal dominated villages of Nadia district of West Bengal, farmers were provided chicks along with feed. ❑ Development of a vegetable hub in Mylliem area of upper Shillong, Meghalaya—Village level meeting with farmers 16.