 If a KVK fails to repay the seed money and/or income generated through Revolving Fund, is taken by host organization, ICAR has to adjust this amount against the normal budget released to the KVK. ●KVKs have to play the role of ATIC at district level providing single window service to farmers. In order to have this functionality, the Committee recommends enhancing the Revolving Fund from ` 1 lakh to ` 5 lakh. 4.6.5 General ●Delegation of financial powers to Chief Scientist-cum-head of KVK should be given subject to budget provision irrespective of host organizations as detailed in Annexure-VII. ●Local Purchase Committee with 2-3 members may be constituted for KVK and delegated the powers for urgent purchases of store items to a maximum extent of ` 20000 at a time. ●Every officer incurring or authorizing expenditure from public funds should be guided by high standards of financial propriety. Hence, the principles like vigilance in respect of expenditure incurred from public money as a person of ordinary prudence would exercise in respect of expenditure of his own money, the expenditure should not be prima facie more than the occasion demands, nor exercise powers of sanctioning expenditure to pass an order, which will be directly or indirectly to own advantage; public money should not be utilized for the benefit of a particular person or section of the community. The amount of allowances granted to meet the expenditure of any type should not be the whole source of profit to the recipients. This should be strictly followed in all KVKs while incurring expenditure. ●KVKs should have responsibility and accountability to bring efficiency, economy, and transparency in matters relating to procurement, and for fair and equitable treatment of suppliers and promotion of competition in procurement. 35 Recommendations 4.7 Visibility of KVK system 4.7.1 Sense of belongingness The Committee felt that the host organizations should have the pride of ownership and possessiveness of KVKs, as they are meant for helping the farming community, which will enhance the popularity and visibility of the host organization in the district. Therefore, the following recommendations are made to inculcate a sense of belongingness towards KVKs among the host organizations; ●Investment and effective involvement should come from the top leadership in host organization for implementation of activities of KVKs. ●Available financial provisions of ICAR shall be supplemented by the host organizations to develop the KVK infrastructure in such way that the farm is a miniature of the agro-climatic situation of the district with all the representative crops and enterprises. ●Promote interface in different blocks and villages of the district through KVKs to generate goodwill among the farming community at district level.