 Local weight help to understand the priority of each category, while the global weights are helpful in getting a synoptic view and developing roadmaps to promote the adoption of UAVs in the Indian agricultural sector. For easy interpretation of relative hierarchy, the barriers as per the global ranks are presented in Appendix-B. 5.1. Sensitivity analysis The variation of obtained hierarchy to the change in responses of experts is often considered as a basis to validate a considered framework [67]. Sensitivity analysis is usually performed by varying the responses Fig. 6. Linguistic scale and the corresponding fuzzy score to collect the responses on relevance. Fig. 7. Saaty scale used for collecting the responses from the expert panel. H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 9 of experts. As per the obtained hierarchy, the technical category is the first in priority, followed by other categories. This implies that a minor variation in the overall weight of technical category will impact the other categories and the global rankings. The approach suggested by Kumar et al. (2019) to perform sensitivity analysis is used in this study. As per the approach, a change in the weight of top criteria is induced manually using a multiplicative factor. Subsequently, the difference is distributed to the other criteria proportionally, followed by examining the variation of global rank corresponding to all the sub-criteria. Accordingly, the weight of the technical barrier category is varied using a multiplicative factor. Ten different scenarios with ‘m’ vary be­ tween 0.9 and 0.1 with a step size of 0.1 are created. Later, the pro­ portional weight of other barrier categories is evaluated, and the obtained weight are shown in Table .5. Using these weights, the global rank of each barrier is then evaluated as shown in Table .6 Sensitivity analysis suggests that for the minor variation in weights, the global ranks of barriers are not affected drastically, which depicts the validity of the derived hierarchy. A similar analysis is carried out by varying the weight of the implementation barrier, and identical observations are noted. Considering this, it can be conclusively stated that the derived hierarchy is reasonable and can be adopted to devise strategies. 6. Discussion The proposed framework is used to analyse the hierarchy of barrier categories and the barriers to the adoption of UAVs in rural areas of India. The empirical results of this study highlight the importance of the technical category which is in line with the outcomes of Elijah et al. (2018) [53]. R&D is one of the key barriers within this category and the first in the priority list in terms of global rank. R&D can transform the capabilities of the existing drone and make UAVs a reasonable tool to perform tasks during different phases of agricultural.