 (i) Improving livelihood, poverty alleviation and income generation in coastal eco-systems; (ii) Empowerment of women in agriculture; and (iii) Women in agriculture in India with special reference to crop production. First year’s result of the experiments conducted indicated that sweet potato variety Sree-Samrat was preferred by the farm women on account of suitability for roasting, usability in festive occasions, its size, yield, sweetness, longer shelf-life, providing bulk to the curry, and suitability of growing in marginal land. The backyard poultry project with active involvement of rural women of different social strata has resulted in motivating the women farmers (a) to rear improved strains of poultry under backyard conditions and hatching their eggs for the maintenance of the flock, (b) to make use of backyard poultry for family food security, and (c) to start small-scale poultry farm for supplementary income. In a gender study on agriculture and household economy among the tribals of Orissa, it was found that work participation rate among the tribals was 57.28% marginally higher than that of male counter part. Proportionately more number of women below 15 years and above 60 years were engaged in economic activities as compared to men. It was also revealed that 90% of women workers were involved in agricultural activities. The preliminary data obtained from the research study on technological need for empowering women in rural aquaculture revealed that 85% of the rural women having backyard ponds were interested in fish culture and found to have high level of motivation. Women trained on fish breeding during the last season took up happa breeding of carp in their backyard pond under close supervision of fishery scientist of the Institute which fetched 12 litres of fertilized eggs from three sets. Nursery management by women groups was also studied. At sub-centre of NRCWA, CIAE, Bhopal, the experiment conducted to measure the physiological cost during operation of seed treatment drum with 25 kg seeds of soybean and pigeonpea revealed that during six minutes (required time to mix the seed), the values for ‘mean working heart rate’ and ‘increased in heart rate over rest’ were 114.7 beats per minute and 30.5 beats per minutes respectively. The women workers found sitting type groundnut decorticator comfortable and easy to operate. Efforts have been made to design refinement in sitting type groundnut decorticator for women workers. The modified unit is under fabrication and will be again tested for its performace. SEED/PLANTING MATERIAL The KVKs produced 1,607.7 tonnes of seed of cereal crops, 163.4 tonnes of oilseeds, 382.3 tonnes of pulses and 57.7 tonnes of vegetables. In addition, also produced 0.77 million fruit saplings, 1.19 million vegetable seedlings, 5.8 thousand spices seedlings, and other 0.