 The Controller General of Accounts in the Ministry of Finance (Department of Expenditure) is responsible for prescribing the form of accounts of the Union and States, and to frame, or revise, rules and manuals relating thereto on behalf of the President of India in terms of Article 150 of the Constitution of India, on the advice of the comptroller and Auditor-General of India. Principles of Accounting: The main principles according to which the accounts of the Government of India shall be maintained are contained in government Accounting Rules, 1990; Accounting Rules for Treasuries; and Account Code Vol.-III. Detailed rules and instructions relating to the forms of the initial and subsidiary accounts to be kept and rendered by officers of the Department of Posts and other technical departments are laid down in the respective Accounts Manual or in the departmental regulations relating to the department concerned. Cash-based Accounting: Government accounts shall be prepared on cash basis. With the exception of such book adjustments as may be authorized by Government Accounting Rules, 1990 or by any general or special order issued by the Central Government on the advice of the Comptroller and Auditor General of India, the transactions in Government accounts shall represent the actual cash receipts and disbursements during a financial year as distinguished from amount due to or by Government during the same period. Period of Accounts: The annual accounts of the Central Government shall record transactions which take place during a financial year running from the 1stApril to the 31st March thereof. 35 Currency in which Accounts are kept: The accounts of Government shall be maintained in Indian Rupees. All foreign currency transactions and foreign aid shall be brought into account after conversion into Indian Rupees. Main Divisions and structure of Accounts: The accounts of Government shall be kept in three parts, namely Consolidated Fund (Part–I), Contingency Fund (Part–II) and Public Account (Part–III). Part I -Consolidated Fund is divided into two Divisions, namely, ‘Revenue’ and ‘Capital” divisions. The Revenue Division comprises of the following sections: ‘Receipt Heads (Revenue Account)’ dealing with the proceeds of taxation and other receipts classified as revenue and the section ‘Expenditure Heads (Revenue Accounts)’ dealing with the revenue expenditure met there-from. The Capital Division comprises of three sections viz. ‘Receipt Heads (Capital Accounts)’, ‘Expenditure Heads (Capital Accounts)’ and Public Debt, Loans and Advances, etc. These sections are in turn divided into sectors such as ‘General services’, ‘social and community Services’, Economic Services’, etc., under which specific functions or services are grouped corresponding to the sectors of Plan classification and which are represented by Major Heads (comprising Sub-Major Heads, wherever necessary).