 Therefore, restrict tillage to the minimum and it is advisable to follow full earthing-up at planting. Off-season management of field: The pathogen perpetuates in the root system of many weeds and crops. Clean the field from weeds and root/foliage remnants and burn them. The pathogen in remnants can be exposed to high temperature above 40oC in summer in plains and plateau and low temperature below 5oC in hills by giving deep ploughing. This may cause extinction of pathogen from the field. Early planting: Early planting of crop in February, reduces the wilt in north-eastern and north western hills. In eastern and Nilgiri hills, planting the autumn crop in the month of September prevents wilt by 80%. Chemical control: Application of stable bleaching powder @ 12 kg/ha at the time of potato planting in furrow along with fertiliser reduces pathogen population from field and gives effective control. Based on intensive ecological and epidemiological studies at Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla, the following integrated practices are recommended for checking the bacterial wilt in different agro-climatic zones of the country. Zone I: Non-endemic areas (Gujarat, Maharashtra, north-western and north-central plains). This zone mainly is characterised by hot and dry summer (April-June) with scanty vegetation; temperature can go up to 40-43°C. Bacterial wilt is no more a major problem. Therefore deep ploughing in summer and use of disease free seed is adequate for the disease control. Zone II: North-western mid hills (up to 2,200 masl), north-eastern hills and the Nilgiris. This zone comprises Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/ Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 40 Kamlesh Malik, Anuj Bhatnagar, M A Shah, Kailash Naga, K V Raghavendra and S Subhash Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Integrated pest management of economically important insects and pests of potato Potato production is often afflicted by a number of biotic and abiotic factors including insect pests of economic importance.