 About 364 technologies at 1,222 locations through 2,247 trials under other enterprises including mechanization; processing and value-addition; drudgery reduction; small-scale income generation; nursery raising, fish production and management; and household food security. A detailed programme was planned, prepared and executed on Cluster Frontline Demonstrations (CFLDs) with an aim to demonstrate the production potential of major pulse and oilseed crops in the country. A total of 1,67,026 Frontline Demonstrations (FLDs) on crops, farm machineries, livestock and fisheries, other enterprises and gender-specific technologies for women empowerment were organised. About 45,469 training courses for farmers and farm women targeting productivity enhancement and cost reduction of field crops, horticultural crops, plant protection, empowerment of rural women, livestock production and management, soil health and fertility management, capacity building for group actions, agricultural engineering, production of inputs, fisheries, and agro-forestry. Capacity development of 1.41 lakh extension personnel was conducted through 4,620 courses in the country. The extension, functionaries engaged both in government and non-government organizations for the development of agricultural sector in the country were included in these trainings. Soil, water, plant and manure samples of farmers’ fields were analysed at KVKs, and suitable advisories based on analysis were provided to them. A total of 52 Directorates of Extension Education (DEEs) of the SAUs/CAUs have played a crucial role in technological backstopping to KVKs in India. The DEEs facilitated technological backstopping for KVKs by conducting training programmes, field days, farmer-scientist interactions, soil health camps, kisan melas, kisan goshthies and technology week celebrations. Research for tribal and hill regions: The varieties released for cultivation were: biofertified maize VLQPM Hybrid 59; grain amaranth VL Chua 110; finger millet VL Mandua 378 and VL Safed Mandua 382; wheat VL Gehun 2015; rice UL Dhan 88, VL Dhan 159 and VL Sikkim Dhan; and Vegetable VL Sabji Matar 14 and VL Cherry Tomato 1. About 187.0 q breeder seed of 47 released varieties of 17 crops were produced. The 9.93 q truthfully labelled seed of 20 varieties of 13 crops was produced. A total of 15.4725 q TL seed was supplied to different stakeholders. An integrated organic farming system (IOFS) model (0.43 ha area) was developed at Umiam, Meghalaya to meet the diverse requirement of the farm household while preserving the resource base and maintaining the ecology. The model has diversified farming components like field crops (cereals, pulses, oilseeds), horticultural crops (vegetables, fruits), livestock (one cow + calf), duckery (20 ducks) along with perennial fodder crops, composting units and central water harvesting pond for composite fish culture and as a source for irrigation during lean season.