 The improved supply chain management developed by NSEL provides social values in terms of connecting even the smallest farmers with national market. This is the most efficient supply chain, which enables even the marginal farmer to access the national level market. Contract Farming Contract farming is one of the most significant and powerful means by which farmers are integrated into national and inter- national commodity markets and agro-industrial markets. The nature and structure of contract farming systems vary widely from country to country, but a fundamental element is the vertical concentration of producers in which the states attempt to supervise and condition the production patterns of farmers [19].One streamof the literature related to the research is on fresh agricultural product supply chain. Samuel et al. [2] examined contract practices between suppliers and retailers in the agricultural seed industry.Wang and Chen introduced the options contracts into the fresh produce supply chain andtook the huge circulation wastages both from quantity and quality into account[17]. Cai et al. considered a supply chain in which a fresh-product producer supplies the product to a distant market, via a specialized third-party logistics (3PL) provider, where a distributor purchases and sells it to end customers[32]. In India, contract farming is also fast developing. One instant is the Kuppam project initiated in 1997 by an Indian Corporation (M/S BHC Agro) with support from the Govt. of Andhra Pradesh. Export crops such as potatoes, gherkins and chillies are grown using expensive imported Israeli technologies for dry land farming. The land is leased from small and medium farmers, who are offered work as labourers on the consolidated holding managed by the company [7]. Contract farming is popular across the country and corporate are forging alliances with state governments for contract farming. For instance HLL’s joint venture project with the Madhya Pradesh government to grow wheat. The project was started few years ago to cultivate wheat in 250 acres. The area has now been increased to almost 15,000 acres. It is the aggressive policies of some state governments that are encouraging private sector investment in contract farming. States like Punjab and Uttar Pradesh are amending the rules to promote contract farming. Uttar Pradesh government has recently amended the Agriculture Produce Marketing Committees’ (APMC) rule what said that the entire farm produce has to be kept with mandis. Because of this amendment, corporate can now directly procure goods from farmers. Punjab has also amended a similar rule.