 Editorial 1 Hydroponics: A sustainable way of green fodder production 2 Bagavan Reddy P and M Harani Sustainable agriculture through protected cultivation 6 Manisha, Bas Kaur, Sahil Boora and Shikha Bhukal Swarna Samriddhi Dhan: A high yielding, multiple stress tolerant 9 rice variety for irrigated and rainfed shallow lowland ecology Santosh Kumar, Rakesh Kumar and A K Choudhary Crop diversification for climate resilient agriculture: Opportunity 12 and challenges Sudheer Kumar Yadav and Ajay Kumar Fungal foliar diseases of pulses and their management 15 Preeti Vashisht, N K Yadav and Rahul Kumar Micro-irrigation: Way forward for precise use of irrigation water 18 in agriculture K Sreenivasa Reddy, Somanath Nayak, Sunil Mandi, Kirttiranjan Baral and Y S Shivay Linseed: A lesser known crop, yet the most viable alternative crop 21 in the eastern Himalayas Badapmain Makdoh, H Kalita, Letngam Touthang and Rajesh Khan Ryegrass: A quality fodder for animals 24 Brijesh Kumar, Magan Singh, Deepak Kumar, Sandeep Kumar and Rakesh Kumar Improved production technology for Boro rice in Eastern India 27 Bal Krishna, Rakesh Kumar and Sanjeev Kumar Need for automation in vegetable transplanter for Indian agriculture 31 Abhijit Khadatkar, A P Magar and C P Sawant Fertilizer crisis and ways to cope up 35 S K Rautaray and Swati Sucharita M illets are one of the oldest food crops known to humans. The millet group Jowar, Bajra, Ragi, Kutki, Kangni, Cheena, Kodo are our traditional crops with high nutritional value and health benefits. India is a global leader in the production (15 million tonnes) of millets. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) and AICRP Project on Millets has succeeded in development of more than 90 varieties for different agro- climatic regions so far. Now focus is on making available the bio-fortified varieties. Recently Prime Minister of India dedicated to the nation that ICAR developed 3 bio-fortified varieties of millets (Finger millets, CFMN-1,2, Small millet CCLMN) with high iron and zinc contents on the occasion of 75th Anniversary of UN FAO. Apart from evolving high yielding varieties, focus has been on development of value-chain ecosystem. To promote millet production, ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research is technical pater for implementation of new sub-mission on Nutri-cereals (Millets) under National Food Security Mission Programme in the year 2018 to increase area, production and productivity of millets in 212 districts of 14 states. Consequently, the production of millets increased from 13.7 million (2018–19) to 17.9 million tonnes (2020–21). The other important decisions taken include launching of breeder seed production at 18 centers and creation of 25 seed hubs at ICAR-AICRP and KVKs. ICAR-IIMR has been recently declared as global hub for millets research and development.