 Avoid continuous growing of safflower. Remove and destroy the diseased plants. Do not delay irrigation until the crop exhibits moisture stress symptoms. One or two sprays of Calixin (0.050) or Dithane M‐45 (0.25%) at 15 days interval. Wilt (Fusarium oxysporum f.sp.carthami) Yellowing of leaves on one side of plant starts particularly from lower leaves followed by wilting that progresses upwards. Lesion at soil line is the first symptom noticed which extends inside and affects the vascular system. Plant starts to wilt, drooping more often. Infected heads have aborted seeds. Seed the crop at the recommended time. Avoid growing in low‐lying areas and flooding under irrigation. Avoid continuous growing of safflower. Remove and destroy the diseased plants. Do not delay irrigation until the crop exhibits moisture stress symptoms Treat the seed with Carbendazim @ 0.1‐ 0.2% Root rot (Rhizoctonia bataticola) Dark cortical lesions occur slightly below or at the soil level on the stem, which later extend upwards. Lesions frequently girdle the stem. Root development is reduced and finally seedlings die. Seed the crop at the recommended time. Avoid growing in low‐lying areas and flooding under irrigation. Avoid continuous growing of safflower. Remove and destroy the diseased plants. Do not delay irrigation until the crop exhibits moisture stress symptoms. Treat the seed with Thiram or Dithane M‐ 45 @ 0.2%. www.icar.org.in 85 2002 ‐ 2007 All India Coordinated Research Project on Seasame and Niger 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Sesame and Niger 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. S.S. Duhoon, Project Coordinator (Sesame and Niger) Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya Campus, Jabalpur (MP) ‐ 482 004, India. Phones No.: 0761 ‐ 2680254 Fax: 0761 ‐ 2681050 E‐mail: ssduhoon@sify.com, pcunitjabalpur@rediffmail.com 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Crop improvement Varieties identified/released SESAME Twelve high yielding improved varieties were developed and released for different agroclimatic regions/ area of adoption of the country (i). JTS‐8 (2002) resistant to Phytophthora blight and Alternaria Leaf spot, Moderate resistant to Phyllody, Antigastra for kharif season in MP, UP, AP, KK, Raj., Gujarat and Maharashtra;. (ii). AKT‐64 (2002) tolerant to Macrophomina stem/root rot, Phytophthora blight and moderately resistant to phyllody for kharif season in Vidarbha region of Maharashtra; (iii). AKT‐101 (2002) moderately resistant to phyllody, Macrophomina stem/root rot and bacterial blight for rabi season in Maharashtra states; (iv). Brijeshwari (2002) for kharif season in Himachal Pradesh (v). Pragati (2002) resistant to Phyllody, Leaf curl and Powdery mildew, MR‐Phytophthora blight, Macrophomina stem/root rot, capsule borer for kharif season in UP, Haryana and Rajasthan;. (vi).