 Dual guide RNA (targeting exon1 and exon 2 of Efl1 gene) have been developed using the InFusion cloning technology and the protocol for induction of adventitious roots from embryonic axis infected with Agrobacterium rhizogenes (A4) strain has been standardized. Also, targeting the seed size of chickpea, 12 constructs having different sgRNAs Schematic representation of the role of maize constitutive gene network in fungal resistance. (A) Nuclear expression is initiated majorly by NBS-LRRs. (B) FBL2, structurally similar to FBL41, was found to be highly expressed in most of the plant developmental stages. II. (C) Amongst the growth & developmental processes, reproductive structure development is found as a major phenotypic change. III. RNases may play a dual part in inducing programmed cell death to activate systemic plant defenses (D) or in reducing the fungal mRNA pool (E). IV. Metabolic reprogramming leads to both positive and negative regulation of antifungal resistance. (F) Leucine can be potentially utilized by fungus for plant infection. (G) Cofactor synthesis, (H) energy metabolism and (I) kievitone biosynthesis are important in modulating plant response to fungal challenges. A. B. Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 54 targeting TIFY and CCT_2 domain were developed which were used for Agrobacterium mediated genetic transformation of chickpea. Of these, transformed plants from 8 constructs could be established in PBSL1 facility. These edited chickpea lines display increase in leaf size, stem length and seed weight as compared to their normal control type (s). Identification of genes for ODAP synthesis for genome editing in grasspea: Full-length gene sequence of grasspea oxalyl-CoA synthetase and ODAP synthase, enzymes functional in OAP synthesis in grasspea, have been identified and submitted to Genbank with accession No. MH469748 and MZ127288, respectively. sgRNAs around the conserved region or N-terminal, half of these genes have been designed, synthesized, and cloned into CRISPR/Cas vector (pKSE401) using Golden Gate cloning and are being mobilized in Agrobacterium rhizogenes for quick assessment of the effectiveness of gRNAs for genome editing in grasspea. Agrobacterium rhizogenes mediated transformation for hairy root induction in grasspea has been attempted using 5 days old seedlings of grasspea (cv. Mahateora). Preliminary results showed the hairy root induction efficiency in grasspea was 21.5% using cotyledon explant with attached short hypocotyl. Two QTLs mapped for Fusarium wilt resistance in pigeonpea: The Bulked Segregant Analysis- Sequencing (BSA-seq) approach was utilized to map genomic region responsible for Fusarium wilt (FW) resistance in pigeonpea with F2 mapping population derived from Bahar (FW susceptible) and Maruti (FW resistant) genotypes. The F2:3 segregants were screened for Fusarium wilt incidence in FW sick plot at ICAR- IIPR main farm, Kanpur.