 The nanocomposits, on the other hand, are hybrid materials consisting of a Table 1. Nutrients and their absorbents Nutrient Absorbent Size (nm) Nitrogen (N) Zeolite 7-10 20-30 87 200 Montmorillonite 35-45 Carbon nanotubes, hydrogels organic 40-80 Zeolites complexes Phosphorus (P) Zeolite 25-30 Montmorillonite, Bentominete and apatite 35-40 Potassium (K) Zeolite 25-30 Montmorillonite, 35-40 NPK Nanocoating of sulphur layer chitosan 78-100 Nanocomposits Kaolinite 30-80 Sulphur (S) Zeolite 25-30 Zinc (Zn),Iron (Fe) and Zeolite 25-30 Boron (B) Montmorillonite 35-40 Nano Zn and Nano ZnO 35-20 PGPR microorganism Gold nanoparticles - and bimolecular as enzymes Nanoclays (Allophane) 100 Source: Nanotechnologies in Food and Agriculture. Springer, Switzerland, pp. 69–80. Nanotechnology in Agriculture. (Source: https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0168945219309021). Indian Farming January 2022 21 continuous phase or matrix and a dispersed (nanofiller) phase. The dispersion of a small amount (<10%) of nonmaterial in the polymer matrix can lead to marked improvement in both physical and mechanical properties. Recent research is focused to introduce different nanocomposits to supply essential nutrients through smart delivery system. For the first time in India, IFFCO launched nano-tech based fertilizers like nanonitrogen, nanozinc and nanocopper for on-field trials. Listing out other benefits, IFFCO said these nanoproducts help in reduction in the requirement of conventional chemical fertilizer by 50%, raise crop production by 15-30%, improve soil health and cut emission of greenhouse gases. As coating and cementing materials, the nanofertilizers and sub- nanocomposits can also be used to regulate the release of nutrients from the fertilizer capsule. Thus, the future improvement must focus on nanofertilizer which allow nutrient release from nanofertilizers triggered by environmental conditions. In this perspective, nanodevices or additives such as nanotubes, aptamers, double hydroxides, nanocomposits, urease enzymes, nanosize titanium dioxide, and nanosilica particle can be associated to nanofertilizers to synchronize the fertilizer release with plant demand. Biostimulants, Biofertilizers and plant growth promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) Biostimulants are natural or synthetic substances that can be applied to seeds, plants, and soil. These substances cause changes in vital and structural processes in order to influence plant growth through improved tolerance to abiotic stresses and increase seed, grain yield and quality. In addition, biostimulants reduce the need for fertilizers. In small concentrations, these substances are efficient, enhancing nutrition efficiency, abiotic stress tolerance, and crop quality traits, regardless of its nutrients content. These substances when applied exogenously have similar actions to the groups of known plant hormones, viz. auxins, gibberellins and cytokinins.