 It was found that maximum number of participants (11) responded from a same organization were from Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology (SKUAST), R S Pura, Jammu & Kashmir. An instrument was designed for this purpose and mailed to these respondents. After constant interaction, seven out of Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 50 with these eleven respondents gave their response. The response was compiled and the impact has been presented as follows: Table 31. Details of participation of faculty in CAFT programmes from SKUAST Discipline CAFT Title CAFT Centre Veterinary Gynecology and Obstetrics Rational use of diagnostics for alleviating sub-fertility in domestic animals CAFT in Veterinary Gynecology & Reproduction, GADUVAS, Firozpur Road, Ludhiana-141004 Plant Pathology Management of Plant Diseases on Small Farms CAFT in Plant Pathology, GBPUAT, Udham Singh Nagar, Pantnagar-263145 Animal Reproduction, Gynecology and Obstetrics Advances in Applications of Diagnosics Techniques in Veterinary Theriogenology CAFT in Gynecology and Obstetrics, GADUVAS, Firozpur Road, Ludhiana-141004 Veterinary Surgery & Radiology USG and Ancillary Diagnostic Procedure for Veterinary Patient CAFT in Veterinary Surgery & Radiology, GADUVAS, Firozpur Road, Ludhiana-141004 Veterinary Gynecology and Obstetrics Prevention and therapeutic management of peri-parturient complications in domestic animals CAFT in Veterinary Gynecology & Reproduction, GADUVAS, Firozpur Road, Ludhiana-141004 Entomology No information given CAFT in Entomology, CCS HAU, Hisar-125004 Plant Pathology Monitoring and forecasting of plant disease epidemics under climate change scenario CAFT in Plant Pathology, ICARI, Pusa, New Delhi-110012 Soil Science Conservation Agriculture CAFT in Agronomy, TNAU, Coimbatore-641003 Entomology Precision Farming and Insect Pest Management CAFT in Entomology, TNAU, Coimbatore-641003 Horticulture, Fruit Sciences Training on “Role of growth regulators on micro- propagation, productivity enhancement & value addition in agricultural and horticultural crops” CAFT in Crop Physiology, NDUAT, Kumarganj, Faizabad-224229 Veterinary Medicine Emerging trends in nutrition of wild and zoo animals CAFT in Animal Nutrition, IVRI, Izatnagar, Bareilly-243122 From table 31, it could be inferred that 11 participants from SKUAST were trained in seven disciplines through 9 CAFT centres of the country during the period under Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 51 study. The following are the details pertaining to the outputs and outcomes of the CAFT programmes on the organization as a whole.