 Seven SHGs were involved from 3 villages for this intervention. Facilitated formation of Bhargabi Fish farmers Producers Company Ltd. in Balipatna block. This company was incorporated on 27.03.2019. Technical back up and training were provided to the shareholders of this FPO through the project. Component IV: Content Mobilization • Website developed for the project: Complete information including location, beneficiaries, villages adopted, intervention, photo gallery, publications, contact us etc. are there. Further, link is provided to Institute’s publications for better access. Details of available technologies of the Institute (www.cifa.nic.in) are linked with the project website (www.farmerfirstcifa.in). Impact FFP on livelihood of farmers Under Farmer FIRST Programme a study was conducted to assess the impact of improved agricultural practices on livelihood of adopted farmers. Data was collected from 87 randomly selected beneficiaries. A structured interview schedule based on DFID framework (1999) was developed and data was collected by personal interview method. The same interview schedule was introduced before i.e., in 2016-17 and after the intervention i.e., in 2019-20. The impact on livelihoods of farmers was measured through finding comparative position of physical, social, financial, human and natural assets of the farmers before and after adoption of the interventions. The mean value of overall standard of living of adopted farmers derived through addition of the index values of five assets was worked out to be 2.84 in post-adoption period against 2.41 in pre-adoption period. The gain was found maximum in the financial assets (25%), followed by natural assets (21%), human assets (19%), physical assets (15%) and social asset (14%). Overall gain in livelihood is worked out to be 18%. By applying paired t test, it was found that the project had a positive and highly significant impact on the livelihood of the beneficiaries. • An episode of “Chaupal Charcha” by DD Kisan, New Delhi was prepared on Farmer FIRST Programme of ICAR-CIFA, Bhubaneswar. This was telecast on 4 February 2019 at 09:00 AM. • A bilingual leaflet “Carp seed rearing can double aquafarmers’ income- technical intervention of Farmer FIRST Programme proved it” is developed and is being distributed to farmers and other stakeholders to apprise them about the scope of the project as well as expectations from the stakeholders. Other Activities • On-site input production and management like vermi- composting, nursery of planting material, seed production, residue management etc. • Five beneficiaries of Farmer FIRST Programme attended the national workshop on “Let’s listen to farmers: A workshop on farmers’ feedback on doubling farm income by 2022" organized at ICAR-NAARM during December 22-23, 2017 (Fig. 2). The farmers shared their feedback and ideas on how to double their income by 2022.