in “Textbook of Watershed Hydrology” is an attempt to fill the gap of quality textbooks in one of the major subjects namely the watershed hydrology. It is believed that the principles and practices of watershed hydrology will resolve the national land and water degradation problems. The textbook is divided into 13 Chapters. Beginning with general introduction to hydrology, it covers the chapter-wise global and Indian water balance, precipitation measurement and analysis procedures. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 98 January 2025 Managing drought risk in rainfed agriculture Josily Samuel, C. A. Rama Rao*, B. M. K. Raju, S. Lokesh and V. K. Singh ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Drought proneness is a key constraint to raising and stabilizing productivity in rainfed agriculture and hence managing drought is critical to the welfare of farmers practicing rainfed agriculture. Preparedness, management and relief are three important components of drought management policy. Efforts to address drought impacts on rainfed farming include both technological such as improved water management practices, developing drought-resistant crop varieties, and non- technological measures such as insurance, safety net mechanisms. Keywords: Drought management, Perceptions, Rainfed agriculture T HE semi-arid lands of India represent most of the rainfed and deficit rainfall regions of the country. These make the regions more vulnerable to climate change and deficient rainfall leads to severe drought impacts. Drought is defined as a period of dry weather long enough to cause a serious hydrological imbalance. The UNCCD defines drought as 'the naturally occurring phenomenon that exists when precipitation has been significantly below normal recorded levels, causing serious hydrological imbalances that adversely affect land resource production systems'. Drought affects many economic and social sectors. Various disciplines have developed scores of definitions, and the approaches taken to define them also reflect regional and ideological variations. Both wealthy and developing nations experience significant repercussions from drought, although the effects are very different. Additionally, there are large differences in the capacity to deal with drought between nations and different regions, communities, and social groups. Types of drought Broadly droughts are classified into four categories, viz. Meteorological, Hydrological, and Agricultural and Socio-economic droughts. Meteorological drought is defined as 'A situation when there is a significant decrease (>25%) of normal rainfall over an area.' Meteorological drought, if prolonged, will result in hydrological droughts with marked depletion of surface and groundwater levels.