 Situation and outlook and methods for promotion and marketing of livestock products. 54 5.5 POULTRY SCIENCE Unit 1: Poultry Genetics and Breeding Phylogeny of poultry species, class, breed, variety and strains of chickens, ducks, geese, turkeys and other species of poultry. Mendelian traits in poultry. Inheritance of qualitative traits in poultry and their usefulness. Inheritance of comb, plumage and other qualitative traits. Sex-linked and sex influenced traits, their inheritance and usefulness. Economically important traits and their modes of inheritance. Gene action influencing the traits. Lethal and semi-lethal traits in poultry and their mode of inheritance. Quantitative traits. Inheritance of egg number, egg weight, growth rate, livability, fertility, hatchability, egg quality and other economic traits. Heritability and their estimates. Genetic correlations, their computation and application. Selection methods for genetic improvement-natural, artificial, directional, disruptive and stabilizing. Individual selection and family selection. Mass selection, combined selection and indirect selection. Construction of selection indices. Exploitation of additive and non-additive gene effects. Selection for specific characters. Recurrent and reciprocal recurrent selection. Part record versus complete record selection. Genotype and environment interaction. Relative merits and demerits of different methods of selection. Different mating systems-Diallel mating, pair mating, pen mating and block mating. Artificial insemination – collection and insemination techniques, dilution, diluents and cryopreservation of semen. Inbreeding and out-breeding. Pure-line breeding. Cross-breeding. Hybridization and hybrid vigour in improving economic traits, 3-way and 4-way crossing and development of hybrids. Modern trends in commercial poultry breeding. Major genes and their usefulness in poultry breeding in tropics. Dwarf gene and its usefulness in broiler breeding. Practical breeding programmes for developing broilers and layers. Selection for disease resistance. Immunogenetics. Blood group systems. Biochemical polymorphism and usefulness in poultry breeding. Development of transgenic chicken. Different molecular techniques for estimation of genetic diversity and similarity among breeds and lines of poultry. Scope of integrating quantitative and molecular approaches for genetic selection in poultry. Unit 2: Poultry Nutrition Various nutrients and their role in poultry. Nutrient requirements of different species of poultry as per Bureau of Indian Standards and National Research Council of the USA. Partition of energy. Estimation of M.E. and T.M.E. Essential and critical amino acids and their inter-relationships. Evaluation of protein quality. Essential fatty acids. Essential vitamins and minerals and their functions. Nutrients deficiency, toxicity, synergism and antagonism. Naturally occurring toxicants, their adverse effects on poultry and methods to overcome them.