 All-India entrance examination for admission to PG: The examination was conducted on 11 June 2017 for admission to 25% seats in PG programmes at 59 accredited AUs, including award of ICAR PG scholarship. Out of 23,015 candidates 2,252 were finally recommended for admissions. In all, 469 students were awarded PG scholarship in 20 major subject groups. Non-PG scholarship candidates who join the Master degree programme in the allowed university are eligible to get NTS (PGS) of ` 3,000/ month for two years subject to fulfilment of prescribed terms and conditions of NTS (PGS). All-India competitive examination for Ph.D. admission and award of Junior/Senior Research Fellowship: The examination was held on 11 June 2017 and 3,713 candidates appeared in the examination; and 486 candidates were finally admitted for Ph.D. admissions in 51 accredited AUs. Based on the merit, 139 Junior/Senior Research Fellowships (PGS) were awarded in 16 major subject groups. National Talent Scholarship (NTS): Merit based support through National Talent Scholarship to under graduates (UG) in AUs was provided to the candidates admitted in AUs located in a State other than the State of domicile, through ICAR All India Entrance Examination (AIEE). This year 2,430 UG and PG students were provided NTS. Globalization of agricultural education: ICAR/ DARE successfully implemented the fellowship programme to support agricultural human resource development in Africa, Afghanistan and Nepal, through formal education of scientists/faculty and students in India. During 2016-17, 162 students from 32 countries like Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, Egypt, Ethiopia, Fiji, Guyana, Ghana, Kenya, Liberia, Mozambique, Namibia, Nepal, Nigeria, Rawanda, Sudan, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tanzania, Zambia, South Africa, Cameroon, Yemen, Burundi, Myanmar, Kazakhstan, Malawi, Lesotho, Somalia, Angola and Uganda, exercised their preference to join various agricultural universities under different fellowships or as self-financed candidates. National Fellowships ICAR Fellowships for post-graduate students: For recognition of talent and promotion of merit in general, 469 and 139 students have been awarded ICAR-PG scholorships and ICAR-JRF/SRF(PGS) scholarships in different disciplines of agriculture and allied sciences for Master’s and Doctoral studies, respectively, during 2017-18. Merit-Cum-Means scholarship: Scholarships to meritorious under-graduate students belonging to below poverty line families to study Agriculture, Agricultural Engineering, Community Science (erstwhile Home Science), Dairy and Animal Husbandry subjects, are awarded annually on the basis of merit-cum-means. During the year, 543 students were awarded this scholarship. Post-Matric scholarship: It is provided to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students for pursuing Bachelor Degree programme in various branches of Agriculture. During the year, 30 students got the benefit of this scheme.