 Profenofos residues exhibit variable half-lives in soil, which may reflect their persistence in vegetables, soils, and groundwater, thereby posing significant risks to the quality and safety of agricultural products and drinking water [19-21]. Several approaches have been used to remove and degrade profenofos residues in the environment, including chemical oxidation, photocatalytic degradation, electron beam radiation, and nanomaterial sorption [22]. Biodegradation is recognized as an effec­ tive, cost-effective, and environmentally safe approach for remediating profenofos-contaminated environments [23]. However, the simulta­ neous occurrence of multiple dissipation processes in field settings complicates the monitoring of profenofos removal and the evaluation of the contributions of degradative and non-degradative dissipation pro­ cesses. Consequently, comprehensive studies on the effective removal and degradation of profenofos in soil remain limited. This study aimed to investigate the kinetics and processes of profe­ nofos dissipation in a tropical agricultural soil using the CSIA approach. To achieve this, a CSIA method was developed to measure the carbon isotope composition of profenofos in agricultural soil. Reference labo­ ratory experiments were conducted to examine the kinetics, pathways and carbon isotope fractionation associated with the major dissipation processes, including volatilisation, hydrolysis, photodegradation, and biodegradation. A field experiment was carried out in a beet root plot to quantify profenofos dissipation processes by integrating CSIA in a model calibrated using laboratory experiments data. The results demonstrate the ability of CSIA to distinguish between degradative and non- degradative processes, thereby improving the accuracy and reliability of contamination risk assessments for profenofos. 2. Material and methods 2.1. Chemicals Extraction solvents, including dichloromethane (DCM), acetonitrile (ACN), ethyl acetate (EtOAc), pentane, methanol (MeOH), and ethanol (EtOH), were of HPLC grade purity (> 99.9 %) and were purchased from Sigma–Aldrich (St. Louis, MO, USA). Analytical standards, including S- metolachlor-d11, profenofos, and 4-bromo-2-chlorophenol, were of PESTANAL grades (purity > 98 %) and were also obtained from Sig­ ma–Aldrich. The ROCKET 44 EC (Profenofos, 400 g.L−1 + Cypermethrin 40 g.L−1, PI Industries Ltd) was directly sourced from local farmers. Stock solutions at a concentration of 1 g.L⁻¹ were prepared in acetoni­ trile (ACN) and stored at – 20 ◦C. These stock solutions were subse­ quently used to prepare analytical calibrants and aqueous solutions for laboratory experiments. For the preparation of aqueous solutions, ACN from the stock spiking solution was removed by stirring the solution at room temperature for 30 min to facilitate evaporation. 2.2. Laboratory experiments 2.2.1.