 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- ashmirUniversity of Agriculshape tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collecoperations, tion, Documentation and  of a person in doing day-to-day farm operations. While doing their farm Collecoperations, farmwomen can also carry their child in the basket. A basket costs around Rs 40/-. It is locally made and a lot of skill is involved in making the basket. This basket is prepared by people of Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: killar, flexible wooden stick, carriage Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2762 Use of reen for colouration of leather Reen (Quarcus incona) is locally known as bunz. The bark of reen tree is useful in giving colour to leathers. The bark is collected and heated in boiling water and then leather is dipped in this water for colouration. This practice is common Agriculin some parts of Rajouri district of Jammu & Kashmir. Keywords: reen, colouration of leather Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agriculin tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2763 Use of Samer (hybrid yak) as drought animal Samer is being extensively used in the Kahi village in Bhederwah tehsil of Doda district (Jammu and Kashmir). Hybrid yak, locally called samer, is a cross between yak and local cow. The farmers with predominantly large size tract use Agriculsamer as drought animal for ploughingthe field. It can plough field @ 1 ½ kanal per hour and can work whole day tirelessly. It is hardy and strong in nature and can be handled by men of strong built. It grazes on the grass and is fed with concentrate feed. The feed Collecrequirement of the animal is only 1/4th of that of bull. It is second generation hybrid, a cross between the first eneration hybrid found in Padar area and local desi breed. The original breed mainly inhabits in cold deserts of Ladakh, in Jammu and Kashmir and Lahul spiti (Himachal Pradesh). It is considered 10 times more powerful and speedy as compared to the common bull. As per an estimate, 20-25% of the farmers in the area own yak for drought purposes. During summer period Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agriculsamer tural Sciences and  of 4 months, it is left free to graze on the higher reaches of the hills and does not require any domestic feeding. Keywords: samer, hardy drought animal, concentrate feed 2764 Rearing of bakarwali dog for watch and ward services to flock of sheep and goats Bakarwali dog is a cross breed. It is a cross between an exotic breed and the local breed.