 This insight allowed scientists to bring to bear their knowledge of the fundamental principles and mechanisms of respiration, leading to post-harvest storage techniques such as cold storage, gaseous storage, and waxy skin coatings. Another well-known example is the finding that ripening may be brought on by treatment with ethylene. Considering the above knowledge on post-harvest handling, the action plans are suggested to establish farm gate, intermediate and final stage post-harvest facilities. Livestock Livestock industry continues to demonstrate a beneficial impact on rural people by improving their income, employment and consumption and thereby becoming as a potential alternative in alleviating rural poverty. The livestock population is expected to grow at the rate of 0.55 per cent in the coming years and the population is likely to be around 781 million by 2050. However, the productivity of animals is 20-60 per cent lower than the global average due to improper nutrition, inadequate health care and management. Fodder scarcity and poor quality of available fodder are the major constraints in increasing livestock productivity. Livestock are also affected by many ailments. Delay in diagnosis will lead to increase in loss of productive days, increase in the recovery period and consequent loss of production. Further, due to difficulties in transporting the ailing animals, cost and time involved, farmers generally do not take their animals to the referral centres which are few and far apart. Hence, it is necessary to enable select veterinary institutions function as referral centres by providing them culturing technologies. Similarly, in order to achieve the projected demand for fodder, it is necessary to bring more area under high yielding fodder crops for which quality seeds of improved variety is the pre-requisite. Similarly, strengthening of veterinary institutions, livestock farms, modernization of dairy units and conduct of health camps are 513 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 suggested for enhancing the activities of animal husbandry sector. Goat farming is an extremely demanding activity. In recent years, the overall appreciation of this long under-estimated species has grown and thus enhancing its importance in the livestock industry. Hence rearing of goats should be examined in a new light and from new perspectives. Moreover, the demand for animal protein is increasing at a very faster rate. Human population growth, increasing urbanization vis-a vis income are predicted to double the demand for livestock and livestock production by 2020. The trends reveal that the role of small ruminants in meat supply is growing and meat from these animals is most preferred. The small ruminants sector will therefore play a significant role in the coming decade in impacting on the livelihoods of small and marginal farmers who rear them. Therefore enhancing the production of livestock is absolutely essential.