 Towards this cause ICAR has focused efforts towards farmers’ participatory research to develop and scale up location specific, cost effective, eco-friendly and climate resilient technologies and promotion of grass-root farm innovations to enhance agricultural production, productivity and profitability in the agriculture sector and increase farmers’ income. To realise this, Indian Council of Agricultural Research constituted State Level Coordination Committees (SLCCs) headed by a Senior Vice Chancellor of an Agricultural University in each state. These documents have already been provided to the state governments from the levels of Hon’ble Minister and DG, ICAR for implementing in all agro-ecologies of their respective states. ICAR, is now focusing on the implementation of the action plan at the ground level in selected villages by ensuring involvement of the ICAR Research Institutes, ATARIs & KVKs along with Agricultural Universities and the state Govt. departments. This document is a summary document developed from the detailed state specific documents and includes in brief the approaches, major strategies and technology interventions included to be implemented in different states at times supported by few case studies/ success stories. I put on record my immense gratefulness to our Hon’ble Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Minister Shri Narendra Singh Tomar ji and the Hon’ble Ministers of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Parshottam Rupala ji and Shri Kailash Chaudhary ji for their visionary leadership and the micro vision for agriculture sector and interest to work dedicatedly for the cause of the farmers and farming community. I am also grateful to the former Minister of Agriculture &Farmers Welfare Hon’ble Shri Radha Mohan Singh ji and former Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Shri Gajendra Singh Shekhawat ji for their motivation and keen interest in these efforts. Acknowledgement State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xvi A lot of efforts from a large number of persons have gone into developing and refining these strategies. I place on record my deep sense of gratitude to Dr. T. Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for spearheading the efforts at all levels beginning from conceptualising the idea of developing state wise DFI documents, constituting the state wise coordination committees, steering a series of review meetings to discuss and revise the strategies, consistently guiding and motivating all teams involved in the development and implementation of the strategy as also inviting eminent authorities including Prof. M.S. Swaminathan, Prof.