 @ yp EQUIPMENT POLICY HDT ICAR A number of valuable suggestions came up in this meeting. The Committee was asked to identify “National Level Scientific Equipment Facilities” in place in ICAR institutes. It also emerged from the discussions that a facility which shall be a standalone scientific equipment or collection of several such equipment for research in a specific subject area shall be called as “ICAR — Advanced National Scientific Facility”. The report was further refined in a meeting, held on September 6, 2019, under the chairmanship of Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR. The committee was asked to include scientific equipment and facilities, costing more than %10 million, available in ICAR institutes and a few other important improvements. In yet another meeting, the revised draft report was presented before the Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR on December 26, 2019. The committee received few more very important suggestions and was asked to include a list of scientific equipment available in ICAR institutes and costing ¥ 2.5 million and above. Based on the directions from these three meetings the committee gathered information from ICAR Institutes on the following aspects: 1. List of “ICAR— Advanced National Scientific Facility” available in ICAR Institutes that are either standalone units or group of hi-tech analytical instruments costing more than 40 million useful for research on various areas of agricultural sciences and technology. 2. List of standalone scientific equipment/facility costing $10 million or above available in ICAR Institutes, Nano Fiber Plant (ICAR-Central Institute of Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai) EQUIPMENT POLICY cy HID 3 ICAR 3. List of standalone Scientific Equipment costing more than %2.5 million but less than ® 10 millions, and 4. The replacement plan for the instruments or the facilities when they are obsolete or written off. Following are the results of the survey conducted across ICAR Institutes on Scientific Equipment and Research Facilities: The information received from the ICAR Institutes was encouraging and found that several of ICAR institutes have created “ICAR — Advanced National Scientific Facility” that ate state-of-the-art facility for research in various agricultural and allied areas. A total of 34 such facilities that cost more than %40 million are available in ICAR Institutes. A list of such facilities are given in Annexure-I. These facilities are not only useful for agricultural related areas of research but also all other allied scientific areas of research. ICAR Institutes also can boast of possessing modern individual equipment that cost greater than %10 million. There are about 75 such equipment available in various ICAR Institutes. A list of such equipment is shown in Annexure IL. In addition to these hi-tech instrument and laboratory facilities, ICAR Institutes also have numerous instruments or analytical equipment that cost more than ¥2.