5) (Zhang et al., 2019). 3.2. Dynamic threshold Run Theory (DTRT) In this section, the proposed Dynamic Threshold Run Theory (DTRT) with different threshold sets for different grids to characterize the drought based on their duration, frequency, intensity, and peak is dis- cussed. Traditional run theory typically uses a single or static threshold to divide an index’s timeseries into drought and non-drought, with values below the threshold indicating drought and those above indi- cating non-drought events. Whereas, in DTRT, for each grid, a set of three thresholds denoted as t1, t2 and t3 are applied to the index’s monthly time series as shown in Fig. 4. These thresholds shown in Fig. 4, represent critical points in the index’s time series defined as t1 = −0.5*s, t2 = −1*s and t3 = 0.5*s, where s is the standard deviation of the index’s values at each grid. The multiples −0.5, −1 and 0.5 are critical points in the drought index’s time series (He et al., 2016; Ma et al., 2023). t1is chosen as −0.5*s, because −0.5*s always resulted in Fig. 2. Overall methodology of the study. Fig. 3. The computation procedure of the SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI. The curves on the left represent the CDF, F(x) fitted to SM or Precipitation or (Precipitation-PET) observations (x1,x2,⋯xn). The curve (dashed) on the right is the standard normal CDF. The non-exceedance probability is determined for SM or Precipitation or (Precipitation-PET) observations in Step (a), followed by transforming these values to standard normal variables in Step (b), and the SSMI/ESSMI/SPI/SPEI values are found in Step (c). H. Palagiri and M. Pal International Journal of Applied Earth Observation and Geoinformation 134 (2024) 104175 4 values very closer to −0.5, which marks the transition from near-normal to mild drought; t2is chosen as −1*s, because −1*s always resulted in values very closer to −1, which marks the transition from mild drought to moderate drought and t3is chosen as 0.5*s, because 0.5*s always resulted in values very closer to 0.5, which marks the transition from near-normal to mild wet. The dynamic adjustment of thresholds based on s accounts for the spatial heterogeneity in SM conditions. Applying these threshold sets enables the identification of drought events in three steps as follows (He et al., 2016): i) Initial Identification: If a drought index value is below threshold t1, consider it as a potential drought event. This includes all pe- riods where the conditions are below near normal. This criterion identifies, D1, D2, D3, D4, D5 and D6 as drought events. ii) Exclusion of Minor Events: Exclude minor drought events iden- tified from step i. These are the events which last for only 1- month and not reaching a threshold of t2. This step filters out short-lived anomalies that do not represent significant drought periods. Consequently, D1 is classified as a minor drought event and removed from further analysis, leaving D2, D3, D4, D5, and D6 for subsequent steps.