 • The Bureau acts a depository for agriculturally important microorganisms with than 7650 microbial cultures at NAIMCC and maintains a core collection of • Discovered two novel bacterial species • Genomic facility: The Bureau has done countries’ first complete draft genome sequencing of Mesorhizobium ciceri strain Ca181 in 2011, whole genome sequencing of various agriculturally important microbes Exiguobacterium profundum PHM 11, Bacillus subtilis RC 25, Pseudomonas azotoformans SC 14, Chromohalobacter salexigens ANJ 207, Fusarium udum F-02845, Pseudomonas koreensis P2 and Staphylococcus xylosus LSR_02N • The Bureau has developed diagnostic markers for fungal pathogens 47 Crop Science 47 • Microbe based technologies developed for nutrient and biotic-abiotic stress management 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Bureau has developed several microbe based technologies for various stakeholders and are available for commercialization viz., Bio Bacter, Bio Phos, Bio Phos+, Bio Potash, Bio NPK, Bio Grow, Bio Zn, RhizoNBAIM-C, RhizoNBAIM-A, Bio Sulphur, Bio Shakti 1, Bio Shakti 2, ZincFort, IronFort, Bio Sanjeevni, EndoBio-I, Endo-Pro, Eco-Pesticide, Bio-Pulse, Green Fungicide, Eco-Green Fungicide, Vardan-1, Bio-Care, Crop Care, Palm Raksha, Palm Amrut, Bio Compost Control BioNPK treated Bio NPK Liquid Biofertilizer comprising nitrogen (N2) fixing (Azotobacter chroococum), P-solubilizing (Paenibacillus tylopili) and K-solubilizing (Bacillus decolorationis) bacteria for augment ing 25-30 kg N, 20-25 kg P2O5, and 10-15 kg K ha-1 48 ICAR Institutes Profile 48 ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseeds Research 1. Contact details i. Postal address: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseeds Research (IIOR), Rajendranagar Hyderabad – 500 030 ii. Name of the Director : Dr. M. Sujatha iii. E-mail address: director.iior@icar.gov.in; Phone: 040-24598444, 24016141 2. Mandate and activities • Basic and strategic research to augment the productivity, oil content and quality of castor, sunflower, safflower, sesame, niger and linseed • Information management on oilseeds to develop policy framework for research and development strategy • Coordination of applied research on national and regional issues to develop location specific varieties and technologies • Dissemination of technology and capacity building Activities • Activities for development of improved varieties/hybrids of castor, sunflower, sesame, linseed and safflower and production and protection technologies to enhance the productivity of oil crops and their dissemination. 3. Salient achievements • Facilitated the development and release of 30 varieties and 23 hybrids in castor; 21 varieties and 33 hybrids in sunflower; 43 varieties and five hybrids in safflower; 93 varieties in sesame and 54 varieties in linseed.