 The green pods harvested after 10, 13 and 16 days of pod setting showed high rehydration per cent i.e. 296, 289 and 287, respectively. However, rehydration per cent was significantly reduced (256 and 216) in pods harvested after 19 and 22 days of Indian Horticulture 4 setting. Dried sangri colour is an important parameter for marketing and black colour fetches maximum prices while brown sangri is not liked by consumers. Sangri harvested between 10 and 16 days after pod setting attained black colour after drying and light green after rehydration while sangri harvested at later stages showed brown colour post-drying and rehydration. Based on the study, it is recommended that green pods of Thar Shobha should be harvested between 10 to 18 days of pod setting, 1.0- 2.5 mm thickness and deep green to green colour stage for vegetable and dehydration purposes. The consumer acceptance for vegetable purpose is diminished in sangri harvested between 19 and 25 days after setting but it can be nicely utilized for pickle making and cooked vegetables like beans. Harvesting: Manual picking is recommended and to harvest a maximum quantity of good quality tender pods, 3-4 pickings are essential in a tree and it should be at 3–4 days intervals from the 2nd fortnight of April to the First fortnight of May month. Before processing, under-size and over-matured pods should be separated from the tender pods to obtain uniform quality dried product. Blanching: Blanching is an important practice during processing to obtain superior quality dried sangri with desirable colour and texture. With different blanching treatments, we found the 5-minute period of blanching in boiling water is ideal for sangri. After blanching, pods should immediately be dipped in cold water for 5 minutes to prevent overcooking. After that pods should be removed from cold water and spread on clean cotton cloth or aluminium/steel tray in a single layer for drying. Drying: Sangri pods are usually dried in open sunlight by farmers and rural women. The drying method followed by farmers is not very appropriate because produce is exposed to dust, insects, rodents and birds. The product obtained by open sun drying is unhygienic and also of inferior quality in terms of colour. Therefore, ICAR- CIAH, Bikaner has designed and fabricated a simple and low-cost tunnel-type drying structure for hygienic drying of khejri pods. Dimensions of the drying structure are 260 cm length, 120 cm width, 45 cm tunnel height, and 70 cm height from ground surface. This structure is fitted with Manual harvesting of green tender pods of khejri variety Thar Shobha Colour and texture of fresh, dried and rehydrated sangri harvested at different maturity stages 22 Days 19 Days 16 Days 13 Days 10 Days January–February 2024 5 48-volt DC exhaust fan operated by solar panel. In one intake, 25 kg fresh produce can be dried in this structure.