 Use of local varieties, limited use of agro-chemicals (especially in hills), low moisture retention capacity of upland soil and lack of irrigation facilities along with traditional management practices have resulted into low productivity of crops and low cropping intensity in the region. Problems of high rainfall (12.10 per cent of country’s total precipitation), soil acidity, aluminium toxicity in upland and iron toxicity in valley land have added to the problem of low agricultural productivity in the region. About 80% of the state total population is engaged in agriculture and allied activities and it plays an important role in the social and economic life of people in Manipur, and will continue to do so in the foreseeable future. Manipur agriculture can be characterized by low productivity, diverse food basket, rainfed and based on traditional wisdom. The gross cropped area of 3,55,620 ha which account for about 16% of the total land areas of the state and the about 66.64% of the gross cropped areas is utilize for paddy cultivation. The tribal people living in the hills usually practice Jhum cultivation. The mean cropping intensity of the state is 151.9% only. However, fertilizer consumption during 2014-15 was 31.75 thousand MT. Horticulture plays an important role in the subsistence farming which is being practised by majority of the small and marginal farmers, especially in hill districts of Manipur. The state is bestowed with all kinds of pre-requisite for successful cultivation of various horticultural crops. The major fruit crops of the state are pineapple, banana, passion fruit, khasi mandarin and kachai lemon. Recently temperate fruit crops like kiwifruit and plum has gained popularity. Almost all kinds of vegetables can be grown in the state; however, cole crops, legumes and cucurbitaceous crops are mostly preferred. Some indigenous vegetables like tree bean, water mimosa, leek and chinese chive are very popular among the people. The major spices are turmeric, ginger and chilli. The state is known for king chilli, one of the hottest chilli in the world. Moreover, Manipur is a treasure trove of many underutilized and indigenous horticultural crops, some of them are really rich in bioactive properties and are being used in traditional and ethnic medicines. But, the horticulture sector has still remained unexploited from commercial point of view. The total area under horticultural crops was 103.52 thousand hectares in 2015-16 with a production value of 955.91 thousand MT (Department of Horticulture and Soil Conservation, Govt. of Manipur, 2016). Amongst the allied enterprises of agriculture, livestock and poultry is the important sector in Manipur. Development of animal husbandry is an essential feature as livestock plays a pivotal role in the state’s rural economy. A large number of small and marginal farmers, agricultural labourers and other economically weaker section depend up on livestock for gainful employment.