 The depth and width of the ploughing are 5 and 6-8 inches respectively. The draught is 170- 180 lbs on an average and covers 0.75–0.9 acre/day. It is manufactured and repaired by local artisans and is adopted by 100% of the farming community in these regions (Tonk, Sawai Madhopur and Kota, Rajastan). ICAR (1960) 18 Wooden muna plough in Punjab for seed bed preparation It is made with the materials of shisham, kikar, salwood and mild steel. It is used for seed bed preparation for various crops by hitching the implement with a beam to a pair of bullocks. The draught of the implement is 168 lbs and it covers an area of 1 acre/day. In alluvial soils the depth and width of the ploughing are 4 and 9 inches, respectively (Jallundur, Punjab). ICAR (1960) 19 Mai for land levelling This implement is made up of sal wood weigh about 21.5 lbs and operated with two bullocks and one person. It is used for clod crushing and thereby pulverizing the soil by hitching to yoke by means of rope. It covers 2 acres/day. All the farmers in this region use this implement as a part of land preparation (Keonjhar, Orissa; Shimoga Mysor, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 20 Plough for different farming situations Ploughs used in drylands have triangular shoes whereas for wet land cultivation, the shoes are flat. The share is prepared from a mild steel bar of 0.6 - 0.75m in length and 1.5 - 2.5 cm in width fixed to the shoe or body with a U clamp or wing shaped clamp. The share point projects beyond the shoe by 5-7.5 cm. Beam generally vary in length from 2.4-3 m. (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 113 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 21 Plough with separate shoe and body The shoe and body of plough are separate parts which is preferred in soils with a great propotion of sand particles. This facilitates easy replacement of the shoe which wears out due to abrasive action of sand. The beam of the plough is joined to the handle instead of the body. This provides more clearence under the beam for easy passage over clods and stubble. Handle is 0.6 to 1m long, 5-7.5 cm thick, 7.5-12.5 cm wide, fitted to the body of the plough (Mandi, Chamba, Una and Kangra, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 22 Use of broader plough in upper valleys Ploughs are broadened by attaching flat wooden pieces to both sides of the iron blade. Ploughing with the broader plough stabilizes the loose sandy strata in only one ploughing action that suits the small terraces and also saves the labour requirement. Hence this indigenous plough is preferred over the one available in the market (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 23 Mai (wooden lader) for seed bed preparation It is made by the farmers and also by village artisans with bamboo and its weight varies from 10-18 lbs and covers the area of 1 acre/day. It is used for breaking clods, levelling the seed bed preparation and puddling by hitching to pair of bullocks with jute ropes.