 Since independence, the area and productivity of this crop has substantially increased. However, there has been substantial shift in area from north to south zones. This shift has been ascribed largely to the competition of chickpea with high-yielding cereal crops and emergence of other root diseases aside from Fusarium wilt. As a result, both area and productivity of chickpea have gone down in the north east plains. This requires sustainable breeding efforts to develop high-yielding chickpea genotypes with inbuilt resistance to major root diseases for cultivation in the north east plains. The development of ‘DBGC 3’ is a step forward in this direction. Keywords: Chickpea, DBGC 3, North east plains, Root diseases Indian Farming 74 (01): 07-10; January 2024 C HICKPEA is the most important grain legume of India. It is an important source of dietary protein particularly for vegetarians. Besides being rich in protein (20-22%), chickpea seeds are also rich in dietary fibres, minerals (phosphorus, calcium, magnesium, zinc and iron), β-carotene and unsaturated fatty acids. It also plays an important role in enriching soil fertility by fixing atmospheric nitrogen as much as 180 kg/ha. Besides, it also adds substantial amount of organic matter to the soil. In India, chickpea is grown on an area of around 10 Mha with the production of over 11.91 MTs and with a productivity of 1.2 t/ ha, respectively. The central zone (Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Chhattisgarh and major portion of Rajasthan) and south zone (Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu) accounts for over 80% of the total area and production. In the north east plain zone (eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Assam and West Bengal) too, it is grown on sizeable area (1.2 Mha). In this zone, mostly desi type chickpea is grown during rabi season. In the last two decades, chickpea area in the north east plain zone (NEPZ) has drastically come down due to various reasons including replacement of chickpea by wheat and other remunerative high value crops, prevalence of Fusarium wilt, and emergence of dry root rot and collar rot diseases. These production constraints have also adversely affected the regional productivity. These constraints call for undertaking systematic breeding efforts to develop high-yielding varieties with built-in resistance to such root diseases. The development Field view of DBGC 3 at harvesting stage Indian Farming 8 January 2024 of ‘DBGC 3’ is an endeavor towards this direction. Development of ‘DBGC 3’ The genotype ‘DBGC 3’ has been derived from a cross between ‘ICC 13124’ and ‘WR 315’ following pedigree method of advancement of segregating generations. The genotype ‘ICC 13124’ has been reported promising for drought tolerance, earliness, large seed size and high yield per plant. The genotype ‘WR 315’ is resistant to chickpea wilt.