 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 421 Downy mildew: Due to high relative humidity, there is a chance of downy mildew attack in bitter gourd. As a prophylactic measure, spray pseudomonas solution (20 g per one litre) under the leaves. Rubber Make fire belt around rubber plantation to avoid fire accident. In tapping panels spray Indofil M45 4g/ litre against fungal diseases In rubber protect young leaves of budded seedlings from shedding due to fungal diseases spray a solution of copper oxy chloride 4g in 1 litre of water. Bee keeping Those who start beekeeping for the first time can procure bee colonies and begin the apiary during October-November Established beekeepers can prepare their colonies for division. Regular inspection of bee colonies is needed to avoid colony absconding and manage pests and diseases. Biowaste management EM solution or any composting inoculum can be used for composting of farm and home based biowastes in a low cost and effective manner. Animal Husbandry Ensure the availability of green fodder to the animal daily. Provide mineral and vitamin mixture in prescribed quantity daily. Mix 30g sodium bicarbonate and 1-teaspoon yeast in the feed daily to avoid digestive disorders associated with excessive acidity. Animal should not be allowed to graze in open grazing lands to avoid lightening risk. Vaccinate animals against foot & mouth disease and haemorrhagic septicaemia ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 422 Take precautions to avoid ecto parasitic infestation. If fever, shivering, brown coloured urine, off feed etc. are noticed, consult veterinary doctor immediately Assure increased ventilation in the shed. Control biting flies in livestock with external application of ‘Poovathenna’ (Kusum oil) once in three days and prevent the outbreak of vector borne disease, especially Lumpy Skin Disease. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 423 LAKsHAdweeP IsLANds Specific Agro Advisories for coming rabi season Generic Advisory: Predominantly the islanders grow vegetables/fruits during this period. The pre-rabi advisory for farmers is to prepare land for vegetables and fruit cultivation. Farmers ready for cultivation of vegetable and fruits have to be think about conservation of available water. Conserve water in surface and sub-surface horizons of soil which in turn address drought related issues in coconut and other crops grown in the island. Use natural mulching (locally available farm materials) for conversation of moisture. Homestead gardens: Drought management in homesteads should be undertaken through husk burial in trenches, mulch with dried coconut leaves, sow cowpea or green manure crops on receipt of NE- monsoon showers in coconut basins. Manage the microclimate with intercrops like tubers, vegetables, perennial vegetables, medicinal plants, spices, and banana to make each homestead as nutritional garden. Vegetables: Planting material production of vegetables can be initiated.