 Raw material demand of potato processing industry (million tonne) Product(s) 2014 ACGRs 2050 Potato chips 2.92 4.5 14.22 Potato flakes/ powder 0.39 7.6 5.44 pattern of Indian processing industry suggests that demand for processing quality potatoes over next 40 years will rise at the fastest pace for French fries (11.6% ACGR) followed by potato flakes/ powder (7.6%) and potato chips (4.5%). The actual demand for processing potatoes will rise from 2.8 million tonne in 2010 to 25 million tonne during the year 2050 at an ACGR of 5.61% (Table 2). Way forward Potato in India still has to transform from simply a vegetable supplement to a serious food security option. Ability of potato to produce highest nutrition and dry matter on per unit area and time basis, among major food crops, made FAO to declare it the crop to address future global food security and poverty alleviation during 2008. Rising number of working couples, rapid rate of urbanization, enhanced tendency of eating out of home, higher disposable income levels of people and important place of potato in fast food items, create an ideal situation for expansion of potato consumption in the near and distant future. A perusal of various R&D efforts and outcomes in the field of agriculture in general and, more specifically the potato, reveals that “Business as Usual” scenario would not hold much longer. We have to anticipate and get ready to tackle much more complex and diverse future challenges in our respective fields. As the time lag between research and development efforts and the final application/ adoption of the output may stretch over decades, a long term vision and blueprint of action plan is highly important. This article attempts to envisage long term state of affairs of potato industry in India and formulate a strategy to fulfil national needs through a well-documented plan to tackle anticipated challenges. For further interaction, please write to: Dr A K Singh Dr A K Singh Dr A K Singh Dr A K Singh Dr A K Singh (DDG), Division of Horticultural Science, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan - II, New Delhi, India. E-mail: ddghort@icar.org.in Packaging Indian Horticulture 8 Profile Profile Profile Profile Profile S K Chakrabarti, R K Singh, J K Tiwari and N K Pandey ICAR-CPRI at a glance T HE Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)- Central Potato Research Institute (CPRI) was established during August 1949 at Patna (Bihar) on the recommendation of the Agricultural Advisor to the Government of India, Sir Herbert Steward under the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. The institute was later on, shifted to Shimla in 1956 in order to facilitate hybridization work in potato breeding and maintain seed potato health. It was transferred to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in April 1966. The research and development activities of the institute is carried out under the six divisions, viz.