 In addition to improved varieties, scientific crop management practices, farm SUCCESS STORY Mushroom Production: A Source of Income Generation Activities under SCSP Programme mechanization implements and post-harvest processing methods offer an excellent solution for enhancing the profitability of farmers. The application High yielding varieties along with improved crop management practices were demonstrated in the different villages namely Mujholi, Bhat Gaon, Gallibaseura of Almora district, where horse gram is grown at large scale. Improved small tools were also introduced for ease in adopting the improved agricultural p r a c t i c e s a n d preparation of value added products like tofu and milk were demonstrated to farmers for income generation. Field of Horse gram with recommended package of practices. Research for Tribal and Hill Regions icar annual report 2022-23 201 SUCCESS STORY Microbial Stimulant for Shortening Mushroom Pinhead Initiation and Enhancing Yield The challenge Commercial mushroom production is based on a series of solid fermentation stages under controlled conditions in which bacteria and fungi have major roles in processing raw materials, minimizing fungal competitors and inducing fructification. A wide variety of interactions between bacteria and cultivated mushrooms have been described leading to both positive and negative outcomes for the fungus, depending on the bacterial isolate and the developmental stage of the fungus. The casing is the coverage material placed onto the substrate colonized by the host mycelium. Some of the most commonly cultivated species of mushrooms, i.e. Agaricus bisporus and Macrocybe gigantea require casing to fructify. The mycelium of these fungi secrete volatile organic compounds (VOCs) which act to suppress the initiation of fructification. Normally in Macrocybe gigantea and Agaricus bisporus primordial/pinhead initiation period is longer (~13-15 days) and yield of crop is low. Therefore, there is need to reduce the primordial initiation period and to enhance the yield of edible mushroom. The solution Casing application of Pseudomonas sp. NARs9 enhanced Macrocybe gigantea fruiting body yield by 116.1% and 104.4% in comparison to untreated control during 2018 and 2019, respectively. The pinhead initiation period was also reduced (7.5 and 7.0 days) in comparison to control (13.5 and 12.0 days). During rabi 2018-19 and 2019-20, casing application of Pseudomonas sp. NARs9 resulted in 38.3% and 43.0% higher yield of Agaricus bisporus in comparison to untreated control, respectively. The pinhead initiation period was also reduced (8.7 and 8.0 days) in comparison to control (11.0 and 11.3 days), respectively Macrocybe gigantea fruiting body The application We found shortening of primodial initiation period in edible mushroom by adding a microbial stimulant Pseudomonas sp. NARs9 strain, which results in enhancement in yield of edible mushrooms.