of water and white washing of the feeding and watering trough to prevent infection. Š Š Disinfect the farm premises with suitable chemicals such as 1% hypochloride + bleaching powder (7gin 1 lit. of water) or 1% sodium hypochloride with proper care. Š Š Do not spray chemicals/disinfectant on feed &fodder and animal body. Small ruminants (Goat) Š Š Adequate apace for animals should be given to prevent overcrowding. Š Š Give enterotoxaemia vaccination 2 mls/cto pregnant Ewe/Doe before one month of expected date of lambing/kidding. Š Š Grazing of small ruminants should be limited. Therefore arrangements for stall feeding alongwith supply of complete feed block and mineral mixture should be ensured. Š Š Farmers are advice to prepare hay and silage as scarcity fodder for their animals. Š Š Inter-district migration of herdsman/shepherd should be avoided. Foot and mouth disease ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 136 Poultry Š Š During this hot summer provide good ventilation, maintain proper shed temperature and make availability of ample cold drinking water to maintain body temperature of birds. Š Š Use anti-stress vitamins such as vimeralto increase immunity and to reduce climate stress. Š Š Local poultry firmer are advised to feed concentrate mix with local available grain in ratio of 2:1 in the diet to maintain the health and growth of poultry birds during the scarcity of quality feed. Š Š The moisture and quality of the litter material in poultry shed need to be maintain to prevent coccidiosis infestation. Š Š All the equipment in the shed should be disinfected using hot water and with any other proper disinfectant. Š Š Disinfect the premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsider to the poultry houses and premises. Š Š Ensure vaccination of chick and birds against Ranikhet disease if not done earlier. Š Š Deworm the birds using piperazine before onset of monsoon season. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 137 ICAR-ATARI, Jabalpur Advisories for Kharif season 2022 for Chhattisgarh Rice ( Biasi/Puddled/Transplanted) Š Š Use following high yielding and improved varieties of rice in different situations of Chhattisgarh: Rainfeduplands : Samleshwari, Indira Barani Dhan-1, Chhattisgarh Barani Dhan-2, SahbhagiDhan, Danteshwari, Chhattisgarh Zinc rice-1 and Bastar dhan-1. ChhattisgarhBarani Dhan-2 Chhattisgarh Jawaphool Trombey Chhattisgarh Devbhog Chhattisgarh Dhan-1919 Bastar Dhan-1 ChhattisgarhSankar Dhan-2 Vikram T.C.R. (Safri 17) Trombey Chhattisgarh Dubraj Mutant-1 Rainfedmidlands : Indira arobic dhan-1, IGKV R-1(Indira Rajeshwari), Indira sugandhit Dhan-1, I.R.64, Chandrahasini, Indira Aerobic-1, Karma Masuri, Durgeshwari, Maheshwari, I.R.36 , MTU-1010, C.R.Dhan-201, C.R.Dhan-309, Trambey C.G. Dubraj Mutent-1, Chandra (MTU-1153), Chhattisgarh Madhuraj-55, Vikram T.C.R., Chhattisgarh, Jeeraphool Trombey, DRR Dhan-42.