 Extension Departments, DAC & DAHDF 0 0 0 3 0 3 Percent increase in per capita availability of agricultural products Improving nutritional security through post harvest management and value addition Ministry of Food Processing, DST, DBT & ICMR 0 0 0 4 page : 16 of 16 

1 Proceedings of the Conference of Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Interface with ICAR Directors held on 22-23 February, 2011 Annual Conference of Vice-Chancellors (VCs) of the Agricultural Universities (AUs) followed by Interface of VCs of AUs and ICAR Directors was held at the National Agricultural Science Centre, Dev Prakash Shastri Marg, New Delhi on February 22-23, 2011. The Zonal Project Directors and Project Co-ordinators and Senior ICAR Officials were also present on the occasion. Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries, Shri Sharad Pawar inaugurated the Interface of Vice-Chancellors of Agricultural Universities and Directors of ICAR Institutes on February 23, 2011. Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries Shri Harish Rawat graced the occasion as a guest of honour. The list of participants is annexed. Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture and Food Processing Industries in his inaugural address called upon the Vice-Chancellors of AUs and Directors of ICAR institutes to strive to be models of all-round excellence creating institutions of global standards. He reiterated that agriculture today is facing challenges in the light of national necessities and emerging global environment. Degradation of natural resources and unpredictable shifts in climatic patterns have been impacting the farming practices. Competition posed by globalization and opening up of economies, ethical issues of trade related intellectual property rights, genetically modified foods and organisms and enforcement of strict quality regimes need immediate attention while developing technically qualified manpower. He expressed happiness over the recent efforts of ICAR in agricultural education and research at global platform which have been encouraging. He desired the details of infrastructural facilities required by the SAUs and intended to take up the matter with Chief Ministers. He stressed that Vice-Chancellors expeditiously take steps for adoption of the Model Act developed by the ICAR for Agricultural Universities. The future world will be a knowledge society and a global village where focus will shift from geographical to knowledge-resource domination. It will be a world where there are new complex equations. There will be competing demands for agriculture and industry; conflicts between creation of wealth and justice and equity, a pattern of conspicuous consumption that will make sustainability difficult to achieve.