 The quick absorption of nutrients and precise dosage of foliar sprays has resulted in the success of precision farming of costly vegetables and flowering plants. The optimized supply of required micro- and macro Wndia Pvt Ltd. nutrients results in the maximum productivity of the available space that minimizes the wastage of costly inputs. Successful joint venture by the NRCB, APEDA and Fair exports (India) Pvt Ltd. A successful joint venture by the NRC for Banana, Tiruchirappalli, APEDA, New Delhi and Fair Exports (India) Pvt. Ltd., Kochi under the Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode set an Indian export to find a new voyage to the Dubai Sea Port with its ‘Made in India’ Farm Fresh Nendran Bananas, in a first of its kind attempt. The NRCB, Trichy under funding at APEDA, Ministry of Commerce and Industry, Government of India, transferred a technology to M/s. Fair Exports, Kocchi based private firm which exported two consignments of 10-ton capacity each to Dubai. This has opened a new gate to banana marketing in gulf countries. Comparatively, banana shipment through sea is cost effective; promotes to get end product with superior quality; and fetches a higher price. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 130 of ICAR where 80% of staff have acquired working knowledge of Hindi, are notified under Rule 10(4) of the Official Language Rules 1976. Overall 129 offices and attached stations with regional offices of ICAR have also been notified upto 27 September 2017. Official language policy related meetings: Quarterly Joint Meetings of Official Language Implementation Committee of DARE and ICAR are held regularly under the Chairmanship of Additional Secretary (DARE) and Secretary, ICAR, who is the nodal officer for implementation of the official language policy in DARE. Deputy-Secretary/Under-Secretary/Section Officer, representing various divisions of the Ministry/ Departments, are to be nominated as members of these committees while Hindi Officer, Assistant Director/ Deputy Director (OL) concerned would function as Member-Secretary of the same. Four meetings were organized and follow up action were taken in compliance with the decisions taken in these meetings. Official language policy related reports: Annual Assessment Report and Quarterly Progress Reports regarding use of Rajbhasha in the Department are sent to the Department of Official Language regularly. Official language policy related inspection: During the year, two Institutes of ICAR were inspected and suggestions were given to solve practical problems being faced by the employees of these offices while working in Hindi. Bilingual printing of manuals/ rules: In pursuance of Section 3(3) of the Official Language Act 1963, all Resolutions, Notifications, Communiqués, Press release, Rules, Regulations, Administrative Reports and all Official Reports meant for laying in the Parliament are issued bilingually.