 Rakesh Kumar Dubey1, Vikas Singh1 and Sudhakar Pandey1 T HE Northeastern (NE) region, being one of the hot- spot of biodiversity in the Indian gene centre, is also known for its richness in ethnic diversity and traditional culture. Many underexploited vegetable crops of the region are found to exhibit better tolerance to various biotic and abiotic stresses, and provide sustainable production system. Since the underexploited vegetable crops of the region have a long history of safe consumption, the local people are aware of their nutritional and medicinal values. Different agro-ecosystems of the entire NE region possess a rich diversity of vegetable species which has not yet been explored. Apart from the nutritional value, many underutilized vegetables are used for medicinal purposes, and livelihood enhancement. Wide range of diversity in vegetable crops found in the region are Solanum macrocarpon (African eggplant), Solanum xanthocarpum (yellow-berried nightshade), Cyphomandra betacea (tree tomato), Solanum pimpinellifolium (currant tomato), Capsicum frutenscens, (bird pepper), Capsicum chinenense (bonnet pepper), Parkia roxburghii (tree bean), Allium scheonoprasum (chive), Vigna umbellate (rice bean), Canavalia ensiformis (jack bean), Psophocarpus tetragonolobus (winged bean), Vicia faba (broad bean), etc. Among gourds, maximum variability has been recorded for bottle gourd in fruit shape and size and other several lesser known cucurbitaceous crops like Cylanthera pedata (stuffing cucumber), Luffa spp. Cucumis hystrix (wild cucumber), Luffa graveolens, Momordica macrophylla, Momordica subangulata (teasel gourd), Trichosanthes cucumerina (snake gourd), Momordica cochinchinesis (sweet gourd), Momordica dioica (spine gourd), Prospects Sechium edule (chow chow), etc. Besides, many indigenous leafy vegetables used are Ipomoea aquatic (water spinach), Chenopodium album (Bathua), Ipomea reptans, Amaranthus viridis, Amaranthus lividus, Amaranthus spinosus, Basella rubra, Basella alba, Rumex rasicarius, Brassica juncea, Malva verticillate, etc. A number of Dioscorea species viz., alata, bulbifera, brevipetiolata, esculenta, hamiltonii, hispida (Philippine medusa and red hot cat tail), kamaonensis (Kumaon Iris), nummularia (wild jujube), pentaphylla (orangeberry), puber and quinata (five-leaf chocolate vine) are found abundantly in the region. Delicious edible bamboo shoots which are under cultivation and grown wild are of Arundinaria callosa, Cephalostacham capitatum, Bambusa balcona (female bamboo), Dendrocalamus giganteus (giant bamboo), Dendrocalanus hamiltonii, etc. The entire Northeastern region is bountiful in vegetable diversity, yet research and development activities to tap these assets for economic development have remained at a very low level.