 This practice is being used by the farmers of Sundaram Nagar in Tamil Nadu since 10 years. Keywords: goat-dung solution, fresh rice seeds, germination Shri Arun Kumar No-3, Seventh Street, Sundaram Nagar, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 613 004 2336 Use of burnt rice husk to increase germination Dry seeds of rice are sown in raised beds and irrigated. The seed bed is covered with burnt rice husk, which conserves moisture, prevents evaporation Shri P. Boominathan No 20, 20th Street, Annanagar Burmadong, Thanjavaur (Tamil Nadu) 613 006  loss, protects seeds from direct sunlight and creates anaerobic condition, thereby increasing the germination. The practice has been in use for 10 years. Keywords: burnt rice husk, moisture conservation, anaereobic condition, germination 2339 Uniformity in germination and sprouting of paddy seedlings Mats of paddy straw are placed one by one in a container (bamboo or tin), 30-45 cm in diameter and 2 feet in height. The seeds are placed over each mat and the other mat is kept over it. These mats are tied tightly in a criss-cross manner. This whole unit is called kottam. It is left in the corner of the house in shade for nearly 24 hr. Next day the kottam is carried to the field for sowing. By this method there is uniform germination and sprouting. Farmers are using kottam since 5 years. Keywords: paddy seeds, kottam, paddy-straw mat Shri R. Subramaniam 1/124 Rangamapet, Pappireddipatti, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 905 2346 Use of bhang leaves for germination of paddy seed Treating paddy seed with bhang is effective in paddy seed germination and this treatment is common in temperate areas of Jammu and Kashmir where Etemperature during nursery raising is low. Green leaves of bhang (Cannabis sativa) are ground and the sap is extracted. Paddy seed is put in a container containing water and the extracted sap is mixed in the container. About 250 ml sap is effective for the purpose, probably because of rise in temperature owing to bhang sap in water. Bhang is a local growing herb and Eits sap extraction is a very simple process. The technique is neither intricate nor involves much costs. Keywords: paddy seed germination, bhang sap Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher- Etemperature Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province J&K State) Documenta tion and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-Eits Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2353 Use of proper sowing time to increase yield of paddy Farmers of Annanagar village of Tamil Nadu transplant paddy on the 15th day of Tamil month on aavani (31 August) since 15 years. It ensures good harvest of the crop. Transplanting during October-November is not advisable, as the yield is reduced. Transplanting in rows along the wind direction is done for better performance. Shri M.