 Grapes Š Š To get a winter crop, pruning is done in May-June and harvested during August - September Š Š Apply 2 per cent Calcium Chloride during pre-rainy season to reduce fruit cracking during heavy rainy season Pomegranate Š Š Spray liquid paraffin at 1% at 15days interval twice during June reduces fruit cracking. Guava Š Š High yielding variety: Arka Kiran. Š Š Plant from June to December at 5-6 m spacing either way. Plant the layers/grafts with the ball of earth in the centre of pit of 45 cm x 45 cm x 45 cm filled with FYM 10 kg Š Š Guava root knot nematode management: Intercropping with marigold around the basin of the tree Š Š Apply nematode egg parasitic fungus Pochonia chlamydosporia @ 60 gm mixed with 5 kg FYM and neem cake @ 250 g per tree, thrice, once in three months. Papaya Š Š High yielding variety: CO 8. Plant during June - September. For Initial control of papaya ring spot virus, raise papaya seedlings in insect proof net house and spray with a systemic insecticide 3 days before transplanting. Š Š For root rot/ wilt, drench the soil with 1% Bordeaux mixture or metalaxyl @ 0.2% at fortnightly intervals 2 to 4 times. Black pepper Š Š Foliar spray Diammonium Phosphate 1.0 % four times viz., before flower initiation (May), during new leaves and flower emergence (June) before spike initiation (July) and pinhead stage of berries (August) to reduce spike shedding. Turmeric Š Š Turmeric varieties: CO 1, BSR 1, BSR 2, CO 2, Roma, Suroma, Suvarna, Sudarshana, Suguna, Sugandham, Ranga, Rasmi, Rajendra Sonia, Krishna, IISR Allepy Supreme, IISR Kedaram, IISR Prabha, IISR Prathiba, IISR Pragati, Erode local and Salem local. Š Š Seed treatment with Bacillus subtilis @ 10 g/kg or T. asperellum @ 4 g/kg of rhizome and soil application of 2.5 kg/ha each of Bacillus subtilis and T. asperellum with 50 kg of FYM as basal and top dressing on 150 days after planting to reduce rhizome rot Š Š Intercrop onion, chilli, elephant foot yam, coriander and fenugreek on the sides of the ridges 10 cm apart for additional income. Raised bed planting in the area water stagnation. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 169 Coconut Š Š Coconut Rugose Spiralling White fly management: Install yellow sticky trap (5 ft. x1.5 ft) smeared with castor oil @ 5/acre; release Encarsia guadeloupae @ 100/acre (10 leaf bits/acre); release Chrysoperla zastrowi sillemi eggs @ 500/acre in young palm Š Š From 5th year onwards, apply 50 kg FYM or compost or green manure.1.3 kg Urea (560 g N), 2.0 kg Superphosphate (320 g P2O5) and 2.0 kg Muriate of potash (1200 g K2O) in two equal splits during June-July and December-January. Š Š Plough the interspace twice in a year in June-July and December-January.