 Irrigation and early agricultural experimentation The results from this study demonstrate direct evidence of agricul­ tural variability in Indian prehistory, and the increasing agricultural input from the Neolithic-Chalcolithic to the Early Historic. The rice as­ semblages in this study allow for a more nuanced view of the changing agricultural practices. The results demonstrate that the rice from Early Historic Paithan is similar in its water status to the irrigated modern rice samples from the region. On the other hand, while the archaeological rice from the East Indian Neolithic-Chalcolithic sites overlaps or is similar to that from Paithan, it is in a wetter region of India. Moreover, it has higher δ13C values than the modern, irrigated rice from the region. Experimental studies have shown that rice grown in paddyfields have lower δ15N values compared to upland rice as a result of restricted nitrification (Lim et al., 2015). The archaeological rice from Paithan and the East Indian sites are all elevated in δ15N compared to the modern irrigated rice samples. However, the δ15N values of the rice from Gopalpur and Harirajpur-Bang are the most elevated, while those from Golbai Sassan and Paithan are lower (see Fig. 2). The δ13C and δ15N values of the archaeological rice assemblages allow us a nuanced view of past agricultural practices. In the East Indian Neolithic-Chalcolithic, the archaeological rice shows a high variability. These sites span the earliest stage of agriculture in the region (King­ well-Banham et al., 2018). The results in this study indicate that in this early phase, cultivation was highly experimental. The elevated δ15N values, relative to the modern, irrigated and minimally manured rice from the region, coupled with the higher δ13C values points towards rainfed cultivation with varying intensity of manure. At Paithan, located in the semi-arid savannah region, the archaeological δ13C data is similar to the modern, but the average δ15N is higher than the modern. Dry savannah conditions were established in the north Deccan by c. 3000 BC and close to modern conditions from around 2000 years ago (Prasad et al., 2014; Giosan et al., 2017). This is significant as the typical pre­ cipitation in the region is insufficient for reliable rainfed dry rice culti­ vation. It has therefore been inferred that the dispersal of rice throughout the Deccan occurred only once irrigated wet rice systems had been developed, with possible origins in the Odisha region (Fuller and Qin, 2009; Fuller et al., 2011). Despite being in a drier zone, the rice from Paithan does not look drier than the rice from the East Indian sites and looks similar in wetness to the modern irrigated samples from the same region. The stable isotope data coupled with the evidence of irri­ gation channels at the site (Kennet et al., 2013) indicates that Paithan shows evidence of irrigation and manuring.