 There is distinct seasonal adaptation of grain sorghum cultivars and commodity-specific cultivars for green forage (rainfed single-cut, irrigated multi-cut), bioethanol production (sweet stalked sorghum) mark the clear-cut separate classes that exemplify the adaptation and diversity in sorghum as a crop. The research efforts over five decades have resulted in the release of more than 80 improved cultivars at the national level and more than 200 at state level with traits of high grain yield, biotic and abiotic resistance, fodder types, and sweet sorghum genotypes etc. Keywords: Forage sorghum, Grain sorghum, Hybrids, Sweet sorghum, Varieties S ORGHUM is one of the important dryland crops which have been the lifeline of the rural communities in the arid and semi-arid regions of the globe. It is a unique crop of drylands that is the last crop to be standing under moisture stress and the fastest to recover once showers are received, coupled with highest dry matter production potential. In India, it was one of the major cereal staples during 1950s and occupied an area of more than 18 m ha, but the area has come down gradually and during 2020-21 it was recorded to be 7.38 m ha (4.38 m ha under grain sorghum and about an estimated area of 3 m ha under forage sorghum). Sorghum crop in India is being grown in two main seasons: kharif (rainy) season as a rainfed crop while in rabi (post-rainy) season under residual soil moisture/ limited-irrigated conditions. The requirements for these two seasonal adaptations are quite diverse due to different agro-climatic conditions. Kharif crop is exposed to vagaries of weather and highly diverse and adverse environments as this season is characterized by monsoon rains. On the other hand, rabi sorghum is essentially grown under receding soil moisture and the crop is generally exposed to terminal drought stress. The Most of the rainy season grain produce is used for industrial and poultry uses, while the majority of rabi season production is used for human consumption. In both the seasons, stover forms an important source of animal feed. The overall increase in productivity of kharif is far more than rabi sorghum. However, the loss both in area and production is greater Indian Farming 73 (01): 22-29; January 2023 in kharif sorghum than in rabi. The coverage with high yielding varieties (HYVs) of sorghum is nearly 80% in kharif and their potential under moderate input is also high (4–6 t/ha). The area loss may be due to the fact that the expansion in irrigation which has made other crops such as rice, sugarcane, cotton, etc. more attractive and remunerative thus rendering sorghum to be less competitive. The decline in consumption demand of sorghum grain was also a major factor for the decline in area. The increased productivity of sorghum has not been able to compensate the loss in area turning the production to be negative.