 Seed fortification It is impregnation of required substances for invigorating the seed, where the seeds are soaked either in water or dilute solutions of bioactive chemicals such as micronutrients, growth regulators, vitamins and seed protectants. Seeds are soaked in solutions of equal volume for a duration of 6-24 hours depending upon the crop, to raise the moisture content of the seed to 20-25% just enough for endogenous impregnation of the chemicals by exogenous application. The choice of chemicals, concentration and duration of soaking vary with the species and determine the success of the treatment. Seed infusion This technique involves direct incorporation of bioactive chemicals into seeds by using organic solvents. It has been known that ethyl alcohol and acetone can make the hard coats of some seeds permeable. Dry seeds are immersed for 1-4 hours in solvents such as ethyl alcohol, acetone or dichloromethane containing desired solutes. Following infusion, the seeds are removed from the organic solution and the solvent is evaporated by air or vaccum dessication for 1-2 hours. The treated seeds can be stored for extended periods or sown directly into the soil, with the additional benefit of bioactive compound. Organic solvent infusion provides many advantages over conventional seed treatments, such as: yy This technique allows the incorporation of non-water- soluble compounds directly into the seeds as they are highly soluble in organic solvents. yy Several compounds can be added simultaneously Normal Seed Film coating Encrusted Pellet Coated seed March–April 2023 69 to the seed to provide a range of seed response from release of dormancy to protection against soil microorganisms. yy Seeds can be safely treated in organic solvents for long periods of time without altering viability- a common problem associated with aqueous solutions of seed protectants. yy Compared to conventional methods, only small amount of bioactive chemicals is needed for organic solvent infusion, which minimizes the problem of residue toxicity. yy As the chemicals are infused into the seed, they offer little or no danger during handling. Seed tapes and mats Seed tapes: These are narrow bands of material, such as paper or other degradable material, with seeds spaced randomly, in groups or in a single row or in pattern. Seed tapes are an easy way to plant a row of seeds with precision spacing. This technique is useful for valuable and expensive seeds. It provides uniform spacing for seeding and avoids the thinning of seedlings. These seed tapes are easy to use and seeds are fastened to some sort of thin biodegradable paper by an adhesive that itself is biodegradable. This allows for the plant roots to grow through the paper as the adhesive dissolves around the seed so as not to obstruct growth. These tapes are well suited for small seeds of vegetables (carrots, beets, lettuce) and flowers.