 The compost production under this case study accounted the incorporation of these locally available wastes with cow dung to improve the compost quality and productivity (Table 2). Initially 7–10 days’ old cow dung were properly mixed with different agricultural wastes (water hyacinth, Pistia Stratiotes Linn, mushroom waste straw, pseudo banana stem, green gram husk, weed waste etc.) in 3:1 ratio and kept for pre-decomposition for 15–20 days. The incorporation of the green materials helped to increase the NPK and microbial content of the vermicompost in comparison to the sole cow dung vermicompost (Table 3). Turning of the composting material regularly was followed to increase aeration, minimize the temperature and expel out gases (NH3, CO2, N2O, H2S etc.) which may cause unsuitable environment to the earthworms. Changing of colour of the mixture from yellowish brown to dark brown/black mud like appearance with normal temperature and absence of foul smell indicated the readiness of the material as the feed for the earthworms. After that the feed material was kept in tank with earthworms (@25– 30 nos./sq. ft.) and covered with wet gunny bags to maintain the moisture and temperature. During the composting process, farmers maintained the moisture content as per the requirement and compost was harvested approximately within 55–60 days. As per the technical guidance from KVK, they have efficiently harvested the earthworms by the optimal condition withdrawn method followed by “feed ball” method. They continued the composting process for two times annually per unit by using the produced earthworms successfully. It has been observed that the beneficiaries are now producing vermicompost @4.5–6.5 quintal with 110–135 litre of vermiwash and 1.5–2.0 kg of earthworms per unit annually. Initially they used minimum quantity of compost, but now 15–18% of the produced vermicompost is utilized in their own cultivation with an increase of 22–25% of the compost use. The remaining portion of the compost was marketed with increasing demand to the local farmers. Some of them purchased their produces for large scale marketing to the outside buyers. KVK has promoted the linkage between them and different NGOs, agri-farms and dealers through different extension activities. Farmers have reduced their inorganic fertilizer requirement to the tune of 16–18% with an effective adaptation of compost utilization. As a significant success, horizontal adoption of the technology among farmer and farm women in these area was very encouraging. During the study period, 35 farm women adopted this enterprise successfully. They have started producing the compost in plastic drums, over the plastic sheet and plastic bag also in addition to the tank method. Besides, use of quality organic Vermicompost production in plastic drum unit and using of earthworms for composting Table 2.