 Dr Likhi appreciated the research efforts of ICAR-NBFGR and encouraged working with National Efforts and priorities for conservation development and management of the fisheries resources in aligning the Sustainable Development Goals. Director ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 002 15 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Shri Kailash Choudhary, Hon’ble Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India visited ICAR- IISWC, Dehradun 14 May 2023, Dehradun. Shri Kailash Choudhary Ji, Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India visited ICAR-IISWC, Dehradun on 14 May 2023. Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare visited the Museum of the Institute, in which the details of the activities of the Institute were briefed by Dr Dharamveer Singh, Head, HRD&SS. Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation 218-Kaulagarh Road Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248 195 Parliamentary Committee on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Food Processing visited ICAR-CMFRI 29 June 2023, Kochi. A delegation of the Parliamentary Standing Committee on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Food Processing visited the ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi on 28 June 2023. Headed by PC Gaddigoudar, Loksabha Member from Bagalkot constituency in Karnataka, the panel consisting of six members, visited various research facilities at the institute, including laboratories and interacted with scientists to assess ICAR-CMFRI’s research programmes on marine fisheries and allied areas. The committee was briefed on ICAR-CMFRI’s works encompassing marine capture fisheries; mariculture activities like cage fish farming, seaweed farming, integrated multi-trophic aquaculture and technology development for breeding commercially important marine fishes; marine biodiversity and environment management; fish genetics and marine biotechnology; socio-economic aspects and extension activities, etc. Dr A Gopalakrishnan, Director of ICAR-CMFRI and the Heads of various Divisions discussed the Institute’s plans for the future, emphasising its efforts to maintain the sustainability of the marine fisheries with the committee members. The panel was impressed with ICAR-CMFRI’s research and its contributions to the development of the marine fisheries sector in India. Media Cell ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute Ernakulam, Ayyappankavu, Kochi, Kerala 682 018 Dr Rajbir Singh, Assistant Director General visits ICAR-IISWC, Dehradun 30 June 2023, Dehradun. Dr Rajbir Singh, ADG (Agronomy, Agroforestry and Climate change) visited ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation, Dehradun, Uttarakhand on 26 June 2023. An interaction meeting with the scientists of the Institute was organised during the occasion.