2: Inclusion of 10+6 B.Sc. Agriculture (Hons.) programme as alternate qualification for admission to various PG programme in Agricultural Universities and award of JRF. Experience of PAU, Ludhiana has been very good and it was unanimously agreed that it may be replicated by the other SAUs to attract and retain the talent in higher agriculture education from the very young age. The programme (10+6) Agri. (Hons.) may be considered as alternate qualification for admission to various PG programmes in AUs and award of JRF. In addition it was also discussed and agreed that Students who have done 10+2 in Agriculture would be admitted to B.Sc. (Agriculture) degree programme, if necessary, with some remedial courses. It was also resolved that students with B.F.Sc./B.Sc. with Nautical Science should be considered for admission in M. F. Sc. degree programme offered by various universities. 12 [Action: All VCs; ADG HRD)] Dr S N Puri, VC, CAU, Imphal brought up the issue of distance education and suggested that the programme on Distance Education in agriculture may be considered on the pattern of such similar programme being conducted by IGNOU. IAUA may take initiative in this regard. [Action: President, IAUA] Agenda 6: Agenda from the Universities (Related to HRD) Agenda 6.1: Research and Extension contingency Under the ongoing /new programmes, provision of budget has been made on competitive grant basis. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 6.2: Candidates qualified for ICAR, SRF (PG Students) to be given admission in Ph. D against available seats in order of merit without any further examination at University level. It was resolved that candidates qualified for ICAR, SRF (PG Students) maybe given admission in Ph. D against available seats in order of merit without any further examination at University level. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 6.3: More number of scholarships should be given to PG students of other states. This will also avoid inbreeding. Noted. It will be taken up at the time of XII Plan EFC. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.4: Adjunct faculty system need to be made compulsory in SAU’s. Talented teachers / Scientists within the country or from foreign countries should be allowed to interact with students of SAU’s, so that capacity building among students will be highly enriched. The cost of TA and hospitality during the visit by adjunct faculty should be met out by ICAR. The adjunct faculty scheme is operational and will be strengthened further in the XII Plan. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.5: All the PG students should be given some stipend/fellowship It is proposed to extend the scope of NTS to PG students also during the XII Plan, subject to the 13 approval of the EFC. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.6: Teaching internship The provision of Teaching Internship has been included in the National Agriculture Education Project. [Action: ADG (HRD)] Agenda 6.