 Fisheries The advisories categorized below in the context of COVID-19 include scientifically proven best management practices related to fisheries to be followed by the farmers during Rabi season to achieve expected production potential sustainably following maximum profit & nutritional security. Pre-stocking management Interested farmers can construct new fishponds during this period. Generally, rectangular ponds of clayey loam soil with 1.5-2.5m depth and having a slope ratio of 2:1 is considered ideal. Maintain water depth up-to 6-7 ft (i.e., 2m), to provide space for fishes in warmer bottom layer of pond during winter. Fluctuation in photosynthetic activity during rabi season caused due to decrease in day length and light intensity results in reduced oxygen level. Therefore, to maintain dissolved oxygen level within 6.5-8 mg/l, it is advised to aerate ponds with aerators or by water exchange using submersible pump. Eradicate unwanted weeds and aquatic insects by manual and mechanical method at regular time interval. Organic and inorganic fertilization doses should be provided as per soil and water quality parameters. Avoid fertilization if water turns muddy or dark colored and transparency reduces. Stocking management Always purchase good quality fish seeds from certified hatchery. Condition the fishes by loosening the mouth of plastic bag and ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 186 gradually dip the bag for free flowing after 15-20 minutes. Avoiding overstocking of fishes. The optimum stocking density varies between 7500-8000 fingerlings per ha. Encourage composite fish culture of different fish species at recommended stocking rates. Generally, six (6) species carp culture is the most adopted one in Bihar- which includes Catla: Rohu: Mrigal: Silver carp: Common carp: Grass carp at the ratio 1.5:2:1.5:1.5:1.5:2. Introduce small indigenous fishes like pothia, mola, murrels (murrai), etc in fishpond. As, estimated 1 kg of small indigenous fishes contains 1000-fold more of vitamin content with respect to other large-sized culture fishes. Diversify candidate species for freshwater fish culture- Amur carp, Jayanti Rohu, Pacu, Mono sex Tilapia, Puntius gonionotus, Bighead carp, Magur, Pabda, giant river prawn etc. Construct polyhouse from low cost and locally available materials to grow adult prawns from post larvae in seasonal ponds. Polyhouse helps to maintain temperature when air temperature drops; hence considered beneficial for high-cost fishes like Macrobrachium rosenbergii (Giant river prawn). Post-stocking management Maintain water pH within 6.5-7.5. If the level lowers apply lime and if it tends to be in a higher end than optimum level apply gypsum. Avoid feeding when temperature drops to 10°C. Generally, fish growth minimizes from mid-November to February due to lower metabolic rate and regains back as the temperature rises.