 116 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK On-farm trial (OFT) is the tool for technology assessment and refinement. This activity is mainly focused to test developed technologies which might help to solve the most important and widely spread problems of group of farmers in a defined area in a farming system perspective. OFTs are normally planned, managed and evaluated by farmers themselves with facilitative role of KVK scientists through active participation and management. Technology assessment ●Identified problems and related available technological options may be discussed at different platforms i.e. district, SAU and zonal level before its testing. ●Technology assessment is conceptualized as finding out a more profitable and sustainable option than the existing one in a given environment. To find out such an option, one or two new technological options or practices are tested against the farmers practice and the recommended practice. Technology refinement ●If assessed technologies are not performing satisfactorily in solving the problem, then the technology refinement can be taken up with necessary modification to suit the local conditions of the farmers taking in to consideration their socio-economic and bio-physical conditions. Special features ●The OFT aims to address the problems that are important and faced by a large number of farmers in the area. ●Choice of technological options must be based on various factors prevailing in the farmer’s situation to increase the production in selected crops and livestock. Emphasis must be given to test one technology at a time in order to convince farmers on the utility of technological options to solve the problem and to ensure adoption of the technology by the farming community. ●Due importance is to be given to conduct the trials with farmers’ perspective, participation, management in farmers’ fields. ●All the essential/required observations have to be recorded in each and every trial. The collected data are to be processed, analyzed and documented for drawing recommendations as well as for reference. ●Successful technological options must be up-scaled through frontline demonstrations in successive seasons in the same location as well as in other parts of the district. ●The FLD, training, mass media utilization etc., are to be used to disseminate the best technologies. Further, feedback information on each technology tested through these trials is to be recorded for further modification or refinement, if any. 117 Scientific and Technical Steps involved in planning and conducting of OFT ●Site characterization (District, block, village, ecosystem analysis of village) ●Problem statement (problem analysis like characteristics, contributing factors etc, management strategies like farmer practice, proven technology options etc., technology interventions etc.