 Mulches are of different types, including soil mulch, stubble mulch, straw or stover mulch, live mulch, plastic mulch and vertical mulch. Conservation furrows are made by opening furrows parallel to rainfed crop rows across the land slope in 3–4 weeks after the germination of the main crop. Agronomic measures are preferred as they involve least disturbance of the land and are farmer’s friendly. However, in situations where agronomic measures are insufficient due to topographic or climatic constraints, mechanical measures are recommended to improve soil moisture regime and conserve runoff water. The engineering measures include practices such as contour bunding, graded bunding, conservation bench terrace system, bench terracing, contour trenches, conservation ditches, ridge and furrow, raised bed system, compartmental bunding, tree base terracing and broad bed and furrow system. For Alfisols having slopes more than 1.5%, contour bunding is the most promising. Graded bunds are suggested in areas having higher rainfall with less permeable, deep heavy soils. Various moisture conservation practices corresponding to suitable slopes for effective implementation are listed. • Mulching: Effective for all slopes to reduce evaporation and maintain soil moisture. • Contour farming: Best suited for all slopes to reduce erosion and enhance moisture retention. • Terracing: Very essential for steep slopes (15-30%) to construct stepped platforms that slow runoff and improve soil moisture conservation. • Zero tillage: Applicable on flat to moderate sloping land (0-10%) to maintain soil structure and moisture without disturbing the soil. • Cover cropping: Suitable for all slopes (0-30%) to protect soil, improve organic matter, and enhance moisture retention during off-seasons. • Crop rotation: Effective on flat to moderately sloped land (0-15%) to improve soil health and moisture conservation. • Infiltration pits: Best for flat to gently sloping land (0-5%) to enhance water infiltration and retain moisture. • Subsoiling: Effective on flat to moderately sloped land (0-15%) to break up compacted layers for improved water infiltration. • Gully plugging: Very important for steep slopes (15- 30%) where erosion control is needed to retain water and improve moisture conservation. • Furrow diking: Best for flat to moderate slopes to slow down water runoff and enhance soil moisture retention. • Stone bunds: Suitable for moderate to steep slopes (5- Broad bed and furrow system for crops Ridge and furrow system for field crops Gabions for controlling gully erosion Tree-base terracing for perennial crops Indian Farming 16 January 2025 30%) to create barriers that reduce soil erosion and enhance moisture retention. • Sand dune stabilization: Effective in arid regions with gentle slopes (0-5%) to prevent moisture loss and stabilize sand dunes. • Soil amendments: Suitable for all slopes (0-30%) to improve soil structure and increase water-holding capacity.