 Increase in dairy production has been due to development of crossbred cattle KARAN SWISS and KARAN FRIES, and through im- provements in feeds. Recent advances have been cryopreser- vation of buffalo semen, in vitro maturation and in vitro fertilization of buffalo oocyte and the embryo transfer technology. Dairy processing has advanced equally. The NDRI is a pioneer in process- ing of buffalo milk — LP system for preser- vation of milk in ambient conditions; ther- mal processing of UHT milk and processing buffalo milk into dairy products — butter, condensed milk, evaporated milk and dried milk products. Infant formula, cheese, soy-whey-based spray-dried weaning food, ‘Tea and Cof- fee complete’ and continuous khoa-and ghee-making machine are the other products developed by the Institute. Nearly 4,500 personnel trained at the Insti- tute are placed as planners, managers, plant operators, private entrepreneurs, con- sultants and educationists. STATE-OF-THE-ART IN EMBRYO TRANSFER TECHNOLOGY Success at Embryo Transfer Technology (ETT) in cattle, buffalo, sheep and goat has been identified as a critical tool for increasing the productivity of these animals. | “Through superovulation, embryo collection and embryo transfer, a superior bovine female can now be made to produce 5 to 10 calves a year and up to 50 calves or more in its life-time. “ Ongoing emphasis is on the development of protocols for superovulation, and embryo transfer responses in buffaloes in order to cut down the cost and make the technology user-friendly. In vitro fertilization technology has been developed in buffalo. Endocrine profiles of normal and superovulated animals have been established with respect to ovarian and pituitary steroid protein hormones. ba s «i Sh ae ; Par ceiea, Sorts zo es Ste Through Embryo Transfer Technologies, 10 calves have been born ina year’s time to an elite KARAN FRIES cow producing more than 6,000 litres of milk per lactation ANIMAL NUTRITION Feed resources are limited compared with the large population of our livestock. While improvement of the conventional feeds goes on, unconventional feed resources more nutritious and economical are being continually explored. Poor-quality diet consisting of rouphage, straw or bagasse is now being supplemented with minerals and treated with urea. The ruminants have developed a palate for the nutrition-packed urea-molasses licks and blocks, and the steam- treated bagasse. The non-conventional feed resources, often by-products of agriculture, industry and forests are: Mesua ferrea (nahor) seed; karanj cake; apple pomace; niger seed; tea, coffee, prawn and slaughter-house wastes and tree leaves. They are being used as ingredients of newer economic livestock rations. Compound livestock feed industries are using our research input for large-scale production. For removal of the toxic components from weeds, many studies are being conducted.