 In 1963, Norman Ernest Borlaug’s new semi-dwarf, disease-resistant varieties, revolutionized the spring wheat in Mexico. Dr. C. Subramaniam, the then Union Minister for Agriculture and Dr. M.S. Swaminathan, former Director General, ICAR along with team of scientists, after assessing the possibility of increasing the production of wheat through the use of Mexican wheat varieties, introduced 5 dwarf varieties, Lerma Rojo 64-A, Sonora 63, Sonora 64, Mayo 64 and S 227 along with about 200 other breeding lines in 1963. These varieties were stiffer and shorter and relatively photo-insensitive and capable of high yields at high doses of fertilizers, irrigation and other inputs. Subsequently, the collaboration with International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT), Mexico was established in 1973 signing the MoU between ICAR and CIMMYT. The success in other field and horticultural commodities also happened due to domestic and international collaborations particularly the SAUs and the Consultative Group of International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) institutions, respectively. 363 International and National Collaborations The field crops varieties much responsive to fertilizers and irrigations were vital revolutions in plant types but resulted into new challenges in soil and water management. The multiple cropping became the order of the day post Green Revolution which intensified the man and machine activities on land causing the soil and water issues along with the concerns of water stressed cropping in rain dependent agriculture. This led to the establishment of AICRP on Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) in 1987 with strengthened collaborations with SAUs. which provided scientific solutions for moisture conservation, crop production, selections of varieties, crops and cropping systems, crop substitution, alternate land use, etc. for almost all geographies in India. More value was added in these efforts with the establishment of AICRP on Agrometeorology in the subsequent years. The research on long-term fertilizer experimentation, soil test crop response, micronutrients, salt affected soils, rainwater management, integrated nutrient management, integrated farming systems, climate variability, and agro-forestry, etc. also touched new high with domestic and international collaborations during the last 75 years. The parallel efforts also continued for international and national collaborations in the livestock and fisheries sector which helped in developing new breeds, quality standards, strains and fingerlings, vaccines and diagnostics etc. The collaborations in research on farm implements and machinery proved promising in enhancing the use efficiency and reducing the cost of cultivations besides, reducing the drudgery in farm operations. The frontline extension system in India started with the first KVK established in Puducherry in 1974. At present each district in India has one KVK, many big districts are having 2 KVKs.