 This is to compensate growth loss and to induce vigour. For kar (June-Sep) rice close spacing and for pisanam (October - December) rice wider spacing is practised. The farmers are using over-aged seedlings efficiently since 8 years. Keywords: over-aged rice seedlings, topping, more seedlings per hill, kar rice, pisanam rice Shri P. Boominathan No 20 Annanagar, Burmoadong, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 613 006 2338 Increasing frequency of irrigation to avoid heat- induced effect in rice While growing summer rice, the water in the field is heated due to high solar radiation . This condition, especially during the tillering phase, adversely affects tiller formation and also the health of the plants. To avoid such a condition, the farmers increase the frequency of irrigation, so that hot water is drained out and cool water either from the channel or from the well is impounded in the field. This practice is followed until the interspaces are covered by foliage. This is being practiced since 10 years. Keywords: irrigation frequency, heat losses, solar radiation Shri R. Subramaniam 1/124 Rangamapet, Pappireddipatti, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 905 2342 Control of weeds in paddy crop by management techniques For controlling weeds in paddy, many farmers of Bulandshahar and Aligarh districts of Uttar Pradesh dip the seeds of paddy in salted water before sowing. The floating seeds are discarded along with the seeds of weeds. The water is drained out and the healthy seeds are kept in gunny bags for 24 hours for germination. The germinated seeds are broadcast in the field, where 2-3 inches (5-7.5 cm) standing water is maintained. Weed seeds fail to germinate under this condition. By using this practice, 70-80% weeds are reduced in the paddy crop. This practice is in use for the last 70- 80 years. Shri Suraj Pal Singh Nayabas Kutabpur, Dibai, Bulandshahar (Uttar Pradesh) 202 393  Keywords: weed control, paddy crop, management techniques, broadcast, weed seed 2344 Use of deodar branches to control paddy weeds This practice is followed in hilly areas of Jammu and Kashmir, where paddy is cultivated. Deodar (Cidar deodara) branches along with matured leaves are Eevenly spread over the field. When the weeds come in contact with the branches and leaves, the oil present in deodar branches and leaves work as a weedicide and eliminate the weeds in paddy field. Keywords: deodar branches, weedicide, weeds Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-Eevenly Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Obtaining good tillering in nagali and paddy by detopping In the tribal area of Akole tehsil of Ahmednagar, farmers leave the animals free for grazing in nagali (Eleusine coracana) and paddy crops.