 In order to provide seamless ICT support to the ICAR users across country, a centralized help desk in the form of web application has been developed and implemented to address the issues and concerns related to use of these web applications and services. Any ICAR user by using their ICAR email (icar.gov. in) credentials can submit their request/ issue for resolution related to any of these ICT/digital service system. This system automatically generates a ticket with unique number. This helps in tracking and smoothly resolving issues along with its monitoring and management. Support personnel at the backend are resolving their issues and accordingly updating the users through this system. This requires eSupport System e-HRMS 2.0 portal the title, specific issues, add attachment, if any with the relevant document/screenshots along with phone number. The users can also track the progress of their queries through the generated unique ticket number. Information and communication management in ICAR: Information and communication management is important component for agricultural research management, education and extension in ICAR. The internet connectivity in ICAR was upgraded to 10-Gbps and extended to all the officials. The information and communication network in ICAR have been upgraded to 6-Generation Wi-Fi connectivity and secure wired network. National Agriculture Science Center (NASC) Complex of ICAR, which is used for hosting International and National Conferences has been equipped with latest 5G cellular connectivity through outdoor tower as well as in-building cells. For security of information resources and data security in agricultural research management the cyber security policy of government of India was implemented. An elaborate exercise of internal cyber ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 164 Digital soil map of ICAR-IARI for 21 soil fertility attributes security audit was carried out to implement various tenets as proposed in policy document. Information and communication technology unit of ICAR has provided essential services during important national conferences and meetings organized by ICAR. Some of the important National/International meetings which were attended by Hon’ble Prime Minister of India include 2nd National Conference of Chief Secretaries of Government of India, Annual Conference of Inspector Generals of Police held during January 2023, and Global Millets Conference (Shree Anna) organized in March 2023.