 Pant Chari 15 (UTMC 559) Uttarakhand Multi-cut forage sorghum variety suitable for irrigated spring/summer (March-April) sowing and kharif (June-July) sowing in medium to high fertility soils, green fodder yield 843 q/ha and dry fodder yield 242 q/ha, better tolerance to shoot pests and foliar diseases. CROP IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 32 Other Achievements in Crop Improvement Genome organization and comparative evolutionary mitochondriomics of rice earhead bug: The complete mitochondrial genome of rice earhead bug, Leptocorisa oratoria from India was sequenced for the first time. The mitogenomes of L. oratoria are 17,584 bp long with 73.57% AT content. The results indicated that the Coreoidea superfamily differentiated from Lygaeoidea, Aradoidea, and Pentatomoidea. Further, L. oratoria from the present study formed a separate subclade from previously reported Leptocorisa sp. This study was the first attempt to provide a reference mitogenome for L. oratoria that may be applied to study the population genetics, individual differences, and phylogeography of hemipterans. Improvement of photosynthetic efficiency of rice through transgenic approaches: Maleic enzyme (ME)-transgenic lines showed reduced leaf malate content and enhanced photosynthesis performance under water deficit conditions. To evaluate the effect of C4 enzymes in rice, transgenic rice lines were developed by introducing Setaria italica ME [SiME] gene constructs under the control of the green tissue-specific maize PPDK promoter. Rice lines for both constructs were screened using the PCR, Southern hybridization and expression analysis. The average photosynthetic efficiency of transgenic plant lines carrying NADP-ME genes increased by 12%, and was positively correlated with the increased accumulation of photosynthetic pigment. SiME-transgenic plants displayed reduced leaf malate content and superior performance under water deficit conditions. The transgenic plants showed yield enhancement by exhibiting increased plant height, panicle length, panicle weight and thousand grain weight. Sequencing of the whole chloroplast genome of winged bean: Winged bean (Psophocarpus tetragonolobus) is an underutilized legume of the phaseoloid clade of the family Fabaceae. It is diploid Leptocorisa oratoria mitochondrial genome map (PCGs, rRNA, tRNAs and CR) is indicated in the first outer circle. GC content and GC skew is represented in second and third circle, respectively. Variety Area of adoption Salient features Forage pearl millet Milkon (Dev 1) Tamil Nadu, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka Single-cut fodder suitable for kharif timely sown, rainfed situation, green fodder yield 421 q/ha, dry matter yield 88 q/ha, seed yield 14.3 q/ha, maturity 85-100 days (seed to seed), stay green foliage, in vitro dry matter digestibility 53%, resistant to moderately resistant to leaf blast and resistant to leaf defoliation.