 Out of the total, 904 samples were subjected to X- ray radiography and 491 samples were found infested with indigenous insect-pests of which 428 samples were salvaged through various physico-chemical methods while 63 samples were rejected due to heavy insect infestation. Additionally, 158 samples were found infected with different fungi of which 144 were salvaged and 14 samples were rejected due to Tilletia indica in wheat, T. barclayana in rice and Ustilago crameri in foxtail millet. About 54 in-vitro accessions of Rubus were virus-tested for associated viruses, viz. ArMV, RBDV, RpRSV, SLRV, SMYEV and ToRSV. Two accessions were found to be infected with ArMV and 52 were found free from six viruses tested. DNA fingerprinting Plant: A total of 7,020 wheat germplasm lines were evaluated for different agro-morphological traits during 2019–20 rabi season. Transcriptome-wide identification of 50 WRKY TF in little millet (Panicum sumatrense) was done. Potential accessions were identified from 1,635 little millet accessions for different traits (Days to 50% flowering, 1,000-grain weight etc.) based on phenotypic data taken at two locations (Akola, Maharashtra and Issapur, New Delhi). DNA extraction procedures were optimized for 25 food derivatives including oil and amplifiability was ensured using PCR/ real-time PCR assays and inhibition test. GM testing services were provided for 12 consignments of papaya (10) and soybean (2). Molecular testing for 20 samples of imported transgenics of maize and cotton was done. GM testing lab successfully participated in USDA- AMS-FGIS Proficiency Testing and two Inter-laboratory Comparison Programmes organized by Export Inspection Council (Kochi) and NAWaL Analytical Laboratories (Hosur). National Genomic Resource Repository conserved 6,447 genomic accessions of 45 species at both –70°C and –196°C to cater to the needs of molecular crop breeders (http:// www.nbpgr.ernet.in:8080/NGRR/Home.aspx). User friendly genome analysis tools and algorithms–K-mer Mate pair assembly algorithm and RNAseq pipleline were developed. Luffa acutangula draft genome assembly was improved using public domain chromosome level NCBI data and 89267 SSRs were mined from the assembly. Microbes: To maintain the authenticity of biopesticides and to check the spurious and substandard products, the CIB&RC has included molecular identification and DNA fingerprint as mandatory requirement for registration and recognized ICAR- NBAIM as the nodal agency for developing DNA fingerprints of microbial cultures to be registered as biopesticides. More than 300 samples from more than 100 companies and biopesticide units under SAUs were processed for fingerprinting at NBAIM. The samples mainly contained Trichoderma harzianum, T. asperallum, Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae, Verticillum lecanii, V. chlamydosporium, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Bacillus thuringiensis, B. subtilis etc.