in): ICAR DARPAN Dashboard is customized using DARPAN portal developed by NIC to transform complex government data into compelling visuals. All ICAR schemes/projects are classified into 12 projects consisting of 45 Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). Out of these 12 projects, Mobile Agro-advisories, Farmer’s Training and Extension Activities are dynamic and district level data have been pushed for them from KVK portal using API. KisanSarathi: System of Agri-information Resources Auto-transmission and Technology Hub Interface: In order to support the emerging needs of multi ways and multilingual communication among various stakeholders, “KisanSarathi”, an Information and Communication Technology (ICT) based interface solution has been launched on 93rd foundation day of Indian Council of Agricultural Research. The ultimate goal of this project is to implement an intelligent online platform for providing agricultural technological supporting at local niche with national perspective. Project intended to provide a seamless, multimedia, multi- ways connectivity to the farmers with the latest agricultural technologies, knowledge base and 16. Information and Communication Technology Main dashboard of ICAR SPARROW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 162 ATARI Zone wise calls received and SMS sent INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY the pool of large number the subject matter experts. The project is developed by Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi and Digital India Corporation, MietY, Government of India under a MoU between ICAR and DIC, MietY. This has been implemented across country by Agriculture Extension Division, ICAR. Initially, the services have been piloted in four major states of India, viz. Bihar, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh, subsequently the services of KisanSarathi were made available to all the States and UTs of the country. Services of KisanSarathi for farmers are available through an IVR based calling system via toll free numbers 1800-123-2175 and a short number 14-426. Once a registered farmer calls to any of these numbers, his call directly gets connected to one of the agricultural scientists of associated KVK of his locality. Through this farmer-scientist can mutually discuss in their respective local language to resolve any issue related to agriculture or farming. All the calls made into the system are recorded in the MIS of KisanSarathi and are available for future reference. All KVKs across India and DATTC centres of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana are enrolled with the system, where, more than 4,000 agricultural scientists and subject matter experts are registered and extending their services to more than 1.5 crore farmers. These farmers are spread across 30% of total villages of India covering more than 77% of total blocks from 88% of districts of the country. Apart from receiving more than 2.5 lakh calls from the farmers, more than 7.