 For upscaling of innovations VINPEPT Black Pepper Thresher 63 Salient Achievements of the Projects cauterized the potential FLIs into three categories namely, commercialized innovations, potential to commercialize and support required for commercialization. Workshop was conducted for the innovators and assessed their responses for upscaling of innovation. During the workshop, a platform was provided for the FPOs & startups to interact resulting in the way forward for the commercialization of the few innovations. The workshop reported the need for further guidance from scientists of NARES systems for field testing of FLI, assistance in providing roadmap for business plan and funding support. Smart Aquaculture Model (SAM): Application of ICT and data analytics for sustainable shrimp aquaculture: An android mobile application-CIBA Shrimp Krishi App- was developed and launched for handholding the shrimp farmers to make real-time based informed decisions at farm level. The App is available in four languages viz., English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu and it is free of cost. Using this interactive mobile application, the farmer can input his or her farm data on day-to-day farming operations/observations from stocking to harvest. Based on the inputs provided and inbuilt decision-making system, the App will display pond-wise status on shrimp survival, biomass, feed conversion ratio, pond water quality, and the expenditure incurred. The expert systems inbuilt in to the App alert the farmer with technical advisories whenever any deviations are noted in day-to-day parameters of water quality, feeding and shrimp health. The app can store the entire crop data in it, and the farmer can retrieve the data for their own long- term decision-making purposes or share it with their resource person for technical advice. The App has a post-your query option through that the end-user can send his queries in text or image format which are answered in two working days. Moreover, it paves the way for accessing real-time bulk data from the remotely located shrimp farms to monitor and extend customized technical advisories. The App is widely being used by the shrimp farmers in India. Addressing Farmers’ Suicide issue through Capacity Building of Farming Families: The project was aimed at providing a sort of Psychological First Aid (PFA) to farmers through the system of peer support and equipping farmers with coping skills to handle stress during agrarian crisis. The project focused on strategies to de-stigmatize mental health issues in the rural areas. The baseline survey of about 1100 distressed farming families across the states of Punjab, Maharashtra and Telangana was carried out. Information about depression, self-esteem, cognitive distortions, resilience, wellbeing, suicidal ideation etc. has been collected to know the Cumulative Stress Index (CSI) and Psychological Resources Index (PRI) of these farmers.