 The instrument can be interfaced with the computer to record load, elongation, breaking time and breaking tenacity. Results obtained by the tensile tester using coconut, sisal, and nylon fibres of different linear densities were comparable to the results obtained from well-established commercially available universal tensile tester. Ginger-Turmeric Washer cum Peeler The machine developed by AICRP on PHET, Imphal Centre consists of a mild steel perforated revolving drum of size 600 mm (length) x 500 mm (diameter) and thickness 1.0 mm. The mild steel drum is mounted on bearings supported on the angle iron frame. The along with the pulp from the centre and surrounding mesocarp portion. The seeds could be extracted without affecting the mesocarp. The germination rates were 83% for ash gourd seeds and 90% for cucumber seeds. The technology is included in ‘Package of Practices-15-16’ of Kerala Agricultural University for popularization among small and marginal farmers. Solar-biomass Integrated Drying System for spices (Jorhat Centre) Integrated drying system (IDS) using solar and biomass energy has been developed for drying ginger and turmeric rhizomes at AICRP on PHET coordinating centre, Jorhat. The capacity of the dryer is 100 kg/batch and its cost is ` 80,000/unit. Overall dimensions of the IDS are 3700 mm (H) × 4300 mm (L) × 2000 mm (B). Drying air temperature can be maintained at 50° to 55°C and 65oC using paddy husk and wood stalks, respectively. Rehydration ratio values of ginger samples dried in IDS was highest in comparison to samples from other drying methods. As far as colour, volatile oil and oleoresin content, no significant difference was observed in dried ginger obtained between IDS and normal sun drying. Effective moisture diffusivity in case of turmeric drying was nearly 21% more in comparison to ginger drying. Energy utilization efficiency by the solar collector assembly was found to be 49.27%. Energy utilization efficiency of the bio-waste fired assembly was found to be 62.32%. Considering total heat available in the plenum chamber and latent heat of evaporation, the IDS showed 39.33% of overall energy utilization efficiency. Pilot Plant for Probiotic Fruit Juices (PAU, Ludhiana Centre) A pilot plant (50L capacity) was established by AICRP on Post Harvest Engineering and Technology (PHET) PAU, Ludhiana centre for production of probiotic fruit juices from kinnow, mango and guava. The probiotic guava, kinnow and mango juices were successfully formulated with stable and viable beneficial lactic acid bacteria content in the recommended dose (106 cfu/ml) with a shelf-life of one month (Patent filed, No. 614/DEL/2013).