 Swaraj through Village Institutions Gandhiji always believed in strong village institutions for the overall development of the society in the rural areas as the concentration of economic or political power would violate the principles of participatory democracy and thereby of Swaraj. To promote decentralization, Gandhii suggested the institutions of villages as units of economic autonomy. He started Sevagram yojana in Wardha district of Maharashtra in 1934 to make villages self-sufficient and self-contained. His ideas and perspectives in terms of rural reconstruction were adopted officially and resulted in the Panchayati Raj movement. The village is the lowest unit of a 11 decentralized system, politically a village has to be small enough to permit everyone to participate directly in the decision-making process. It is the basic institution of participatory democracy. Agricultural development activities got a push under this system especially when MNREGA activities were converged with agricultural development activities like creating bunds for soil and water conservation, rejuvenation of common water resources, pasture land development activities for enhanced availability of forage for animals etc. ICAR institutes especially working under Natural Resource Management and Crop Science Divisions are working for the development of watersheds with the active involvement of gram panchayats in different states of the country. Besides this, ICAR in partnership with ICRISAT, State development department and Panchayats has also developed watersheds in different parts of the country. Successful adoption and replication of these water conservation techniques and agroforestry were useful in addressing the problems of soil erosion and water crisis for drinking as well as for irrigation. For efficient utilization of water, user associations were created at different project sites. All these watersheds developed by ICAR institutes have empowered poor rural communities residing in those areas by creating better access to quality drinking water and higher income from agriculture and livestock activities. It has also helped in reverse migration in some areas from towns to villages and fulfilling the Gandhiji dream of Swaraj. ICAR-IGFRI and CAZRI have played a role in the rejuvenation of community pasturelands in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Himachal Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh where MNREGA funds were utilized and all the gram panchayats in the project areas were actively involved in the development of grasslands for better availability of quality fodder and improved livestock productivity. Cooperatives: The secret of successful co-operative effort is that the members must believe in co-operation, which should have a definite progressive goal. Cooperation according to Gandhiji was necessary for the creation of a socialistic society and complete decentralization of power. He believed that cooperation was one of the important means to empower people.