 49 Unit 2: Minerals, Vitamins and Feed Additives Minerals: Classification of minerals, Physiological functions, Deficiency symptoms and toxicity - Inter-relationships - Synergism and antagonism - Requirements - Different sources and bio- availability - Role of chelated minerals. Vitamins: Physiological functions and co-enzyme role - Deficiency symptoms, hyper-vitaminosis. Requirements, Sources and vitamin analogues - Antivitamins – Feed Additives: Nutritional role. Prebiotics - Probiotics, phytochemicals other metabolic modifiers. Role of phyto-chemicals as growth promoters. Unit 3: Rumen Eco-system and Functions Rumen and its environment. Development of functional rumen. Digestion kinetics in reticulo-rumen. Role of rumen microbes, Significance of rumen fungi- Defaunation and transfaunation. Microbial fermentation in rumen. VFA production, inter-conversion and utilization. Dietary protein breakdown. Microbial protein synthesis. NPN compounds and their utilization. Ammonia toxicity - Role of slow release urea compounds. Manipulation of rumen fermentation. Bio-hydrogenation and utilization of dietary lipids. Methanogenesis and methane inhibitors. Unit 4: Non-ruminant Nutrition Comparative gastrointestinal physiology of monogastrics – digestion and metabolism of organic nutrients in poultry and swine. Significance of minerals and vitamins in mono-gastrics. Inter relationship in nutrient sparing activity. Feeding systems. Role of feed additives - Factors affecting nutritional quality and performance. Special nutritional needs of rabbits, horses and companion animals. Unit 5: Nutrient Requirements Energy protein requirements for maintenance and productivity in ruminants and non-ruminants. Colostrum feeding of calf, mineral and vitamin requirements. Dry matter intake in relation to productivity. DM: water intake ratio. Palatability. Nutritional intake and energy density. Feeding standards - NRC, ARC, Kearl and Indian. Nutrient requirements under temperate and tropical environment. Feeding strategies during stress and natural calamities - Ration formulation - least cost rations. Unit 6: Forage Conservation and Evaluation Natural and cultivated forges-Their composition and nutritive values. Nutritive value Index. Forage quality evaluation in range animals -Role of indicator methods-Advances in silage and haymaking- Factors affecting quality of conserved forages- Quality criteria and grading of silage and hay under tropics-artificial drying of forages. Unit 7: Feed Processing and Technology Methods of feed processing - physical, chemical and biological effect of processing on nutritional quality and utilization. Pelleted and extruded feeds. Quality control of raw feedstuffs and finished feeds: Significance of BIS (standards). Handling and storage of raw and finished feeds. Methods to improve shelf life of fat rich feeds, By-products of newly introduced commercial crops including residues of genetically modified feeds. Alternative feed resources.