 and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 46 November 2024 Integrated farming system in Kiphire Aspirational District, Nagaland N Khumdemo Ezung*, Temjenna Jamir and Litekhing Sangtam ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Nagaland Centre, Longtroktrok, Kiphire, Nagaland 798 611 This article details the success story of transformative impact of an Integrated Farming System (IFS) in Kiphire, Nagaland, led by Shri Chumlongse Sangtam. Starting with maize and rajmah cultivation, Sangtam expanded his farm with technical support from KVK (Kiphire), establishing diverse units like pig breeding, poultry, vermicomposting, and Jalkund for fish and duck rearing. Over time, his farm has become a model IFS farm, enhancing income sustainability, resource efficiency, and resilience. The farm now serves as a resource center, fostering agricultural livelihood, and training. This successful model highlights the potential of IFS in rural prosperity and food security. Keywords: Integrated farming system, Livestock rearing, Pig breeding, Vegetable cultivation, Vermicomposting S HRI Chumlongse Sangtam is a progressive farmer from Kiphire, Nagaland who has been involved in vegetable cultivation and pig breeding for over 10 years. He started farming from a very young age and over the years, he has gained the experience more particularly in vegetable cultivation and pig breeding. He started a farm during 2018, where he was earning only from cultivation of maize and rajmah. Officers from KVK (Kiphire) visited his farm site and took the initiative to develop it into a model IFS farm. Before the establishment of the farm, he was provided with much needed technical skills trainings on improved methods of cultivation, piggery management, vermin-composting, fish farming and vegetable crops. Accordingly, units such as polyhouse for production of off-season vegetables was established, vermin-composting unit, Jalkund for water harvesting, pig breeding unit and poultry unit.