 Potatoes: A rich source of Antioxidants Potatoes contain a number of small molecules, many of which are beneficial phytonutrients such as phenols, flavonoids, kukoamines, anthocyanins and carotenoids. Coloured potatoes may serve as a potential source of natural anthocyanin pigments and also a powerful source of antioxidant micronutrients. Potato antioxidants have potential role in immune function and disease prevention. Anthocyanin content in Indian potato cultivars range from 9 to 141 µg/100 g of fresh 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 K. Himalini K. Chipsona 2 K. Neela K Lalima K. Sindhuri K. Satluj K. Kuber K. Kanchan K. Muthu K. Jeevan K. Sheetman K. Himsona Carotenoids (µg/100g FW) 0 20 40 60 80 100 120 140 160 K. Lauvkar K. Sheetman K. Sadabahar K. Alankar K. Pushkar K. Khasigaro K. Himsona K. Satluj K. Kumar K. Lalit K. Bahar K. Chipsona 2 Anthocyanin (µg/100g FW) Carotenoids (left) and anthocyanin (right) in Indian potato cultivars Indian Horticulture 30 Conclusion ‘Global Hunger Index 2012’ report of International Food Policy Research Institute showed serious concerns about food security in India. To overcome such serious and alarming situations potato provides a way out to tackle the problem of hunger and provide food and nutritional security. Potato can be a perfect substitute for other cereals due to its high nutritional value and high production and productivity. Potato is a nourishing food. It’s low energy density is advantageous when eaten without much added fat. Potatoes contain high quality protein rich in essential amino acids. It is a rich source of vitamin C and is far superior in this respect to most other vegetables and cereals. Considerable quantities of some of the B group vitamins are also present in potato. Potatoes contain many minerals and trace elements and simultaneously are low in fats. Moreover, among the major food crops, bioavailability of minerals is potentially high in potatoes because of the presence of high concentrations of the compounds that stimulate micronutrient absorption such as ascorbate. Low concentration of absorption inhibitors such as phytate and oxalate also improve the bioavailability of minerals from potato. Hence, potato as such is a wholesome food and anyone can live by eating potatoes alone. With ever increasing population, potatoes are destined to be very crucial for providing food and nutritional security to populations in the developing countries including India. For further Interaction, please write to: Dr P Dr P Dr P Dr P Dr Pinky R inky R inky R inky R inky Raigond aigond aigond aigond aigond (Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla-171 001, Himachal Pradesh India. Email: jariapink@gmail.com CERTIFICATE (To be attached with all articles by authors) F. No. Article entitled Author(s) 1. The article has been seen by all the authors (signatures given below), who are satisfied with its form and contents. 2.