 Other major accomplishments include suitability of thermo-genetic male-sterile line (MLTG 4) of rice for developing two-line hybrids; development to simple technique for evaluating tolerance/sensitivity of wheat genotypes to fusarial toxins; identification of maize genotypes tolerant to diseases, excess soil moisture and drought; first-time development of two-row malt barley (DWR 28); presence of confectionery taste in jaggery prepared from NSS 104 and SSV 84 sorghum; higher returns from intercropping of grain amaranth in long- duration pigeonpea (CO 6); addition of new exotic and indigenous germplasm of forage crops; employment of epicuticular wax load as a selection criterion for drought tolerance in groundnut; optimization of protocol for castor transformation through Agrobacterium-mediated gene transfer; significant increase in sesame yield with single superphosphate or element sulphur or gypsum; 50% reduction in Phytophthora blight incidence when pigeonpea sown on ridges compared with flat sowing; reduction in pod-borer damage when mungbean and urdbean intercropped with soybean, and in neurotoxic compound in lathyrus dal by pre-cooking water soaking; higher profits of potato intercropping in cotton and development of two- row bullock-drawn cotton planter, especially for small farmers cultivating on Vertisols; first-time development of interspecific tobacco hybrids from a trispecific cross; increase in yield and decrease in pigeonpea nematode under intercropping of pigeonpea with groundnut; development of simple, low-priced, light-weight royal jelly collector; reduction in crop loss on growing Butea monosperma on farm bunds; development of an easy and rapid laboratory method for the large-scale screening of antagonists against specific nematodes; and utilization of flag leaf in rice for synchronization of male and female lines through staggered planting. In Improvement and Management of Horticultural Crops, late-ripening mango hybrid (Amrapali × Vanaraj) was promising with attractive fruit colour and good quality for export and internal market. A unique wild-type banana locally called ‘Sai Sui’ was collected. In citrus, Tenali selection was found promising and tolerant to canker. Commercial production of Nagpur mandarin was started at Nagpur under Revolving Fund Scheme. In guava, Allahabad Safeda, Sardar and Allahabad Surkha gave good yield, and the biological control of spiralling whitefly was possible through parasitoids. In papaya, CO 2, CO 6, CO 7, CO 3 and Pusa Delicious varieties were more prolific for fruits. In sapota, inarching method of grafting during June-July or September-October was ideal. In litchi, 42 accessions were collected. Five different types of jackfruit were collected and characterized. Kernel recovery in BP 4 walnut was better than America’s best variety and has potential for export.