 The average soil labile C pools (RMC, MBC and KMNO4-C) were higher in rice-straw compost and rice-straw incorporation treatments at both maximum tillering and panicle initiation stages compared to other treatments. Comparing both the stages, soil labile C pools were higher at panicle initiation as compared to maximum tillering. Whereas, both dehydrogenase and FDA enzymatic activities were higher at panicle initiation than maximum tillering stage. The average dehydrogenase and FDA activities were higher in RSC followed by the MTH and RSI as compared to other treatments. The grain yield was higher under RSC (5.32 tonnes/ha) followed by RSI (5.28 tonnes/ha). The mitigation options that hamper the crop yield is not acceptable by the farmers. Therefore based on GHG emissions, Basic slag, Phosphogypsum and Biochar can be considered on site specific suitability. Quinoa–a new promising crop for saline areas: Quinoa (Chenopodium quinoa) is one of promising facultative halophytes which has been recognized recently for endurance in multiple abiotic stresses (drought, salinity, frost etc.) and for exceptional nutritional quality grain, a high potential for saline and drought prone areas. The grains are rich source of proteins (14-20%), minerals (Ca, P, Mg, Fe and Zn), vitamins (B1, B9, C and E) and oil containing large amounts of linoleate. The preliminary results of evaluation of quinoa germplasm at ICAR-CSSRI, Karnal showed that some germplasm produced satisfactory grain yield of about 6.2 to 7.0 g/ plant under high SAR irrigation water salinity of 24 dS/m. Under field conditions, grain yield of more than 3.0 Mg/ha was obtained in the saline soil of 6-8 dS/m EC2. Efforts are being made to explore the more genetic variability for salt-affected agro-ecosystem of the country with standardization of management practices. Seasonal methane emission under eight treatments in rice-rice system Seasonal nitrous oxide emission under eight treatments in rice-rice system Identification of Multi-stress Tolerant Rice Variety Swarna Unnat Dhan A high-yielding, multiple stresses tolerant rice variety Swarna Unnat Dhan (IET 27892) was developed by ICAR Research Complex for Eastern Region, Patna, Bihar for cultivation under irrigated, transplanted condition in Bihar, Odisha, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra of India. Swarna Unnat Dhan is an early duration (115-120 days), semi-dwarf, high- yielding (5.0-5.5 tonnes/ha), multiple stress (drought, disease and insect-pests) tolerant, lodging resistant with desirable cooking quality traits and having long and slender grain type. Quality wise, Swarna Unnat Dhan possesses 77.7% hulling, 67.4% milling, 63.2% head-rice recovery (HRR) with desirable intermediate alkali spreading value, amylose content (24.34%) with long, slender grain type.