 Multi-layer farming has proven effective in providing year-round income, fostering environmental sustainability, and offering a viable solution for small and marginal farmers in resource-constrained areas. Keywords: Farmer FIRST, Multi-layer cropping, Multi-tier farming, Resource efficiency, Sustainable agriculture, Tribal agriculture M ULTILAYER farming is also called multi-crop/ multi-level farming/ multilayer farming. It is an integrated farming system based on gross use of water, fertilizers, and soil, and getting maximum yield per unit. In multi-layer farming, the yield of 4-5 crops can be achieved in a year from the same field with the necessary fertilizers and irrigation for one crop. This is why multi-layer farming provides higher productivity per unit of land and higher economic returns at a lower cost. Multilayer farming techniques have also been recognized as a means of sustainable development for small and marginal farmers, as they lead to higher profits besides better food and nutritional security. This method of farming improves the productivity and utilization of all the essential factors of agriculture, i.e., water, land, fertilizers, air, and solar radiation. Moreover, issue of weeds is less. Features of multi-layer farming Multilayer farming is more popular among small, marginal, and progressive farmers who practice advanced farming, i.e., which are not dependent on farm labourers. It has been found very useful for fruit- vegetable horticultural crops and plantation-based crops. This farming system is highly successful and sustainable, especially for coconut, areca nut, coffee, ginger, leafy vegetables, and cashew crops. In normal or traditional farming, the complete dependence of the farmers is usually on the weather cycle. That is why the cultivation of seasonal crops is the most popular. However, seasonal farming is also heavily affected by seasonal fluctuations and disasters. Often farmers have to face the problem of not getting remunerative prices in the market due to damage to standing crops or excessive production. Multilayer farming proves to be very helpful in facing such challenges because, in this farming, it is easy to grow crops according to the demand of the market. Basic principle of multi-layer farming • Diversification of crops according to scientific, ecological and economic principles • Getting more profit by maximizing the productivity of the system • Using farm resources with high efficiency • Use of intensive investment method for maximum profit • Long-term sustainability of agricultural resources and the environment Benefits of multi-layer farming The benefits of multi-layer farming are many. They include: • Increased yield: Growing several crops together Indian Farming 74 (11): 07-09; November 2024 Indian Farming 8 November 2024 increases yields because their roots fertilize each other and because more plants are working together to produce more food.