 • No pesticides or herbicides: Avoids chemical pesticides and herbicides, instead encouraging natural predators and companion planting to maintain plant diversity. • No or minimal weeding: Uses Acchadan (dry grass mulch) and intercrops to reduce weed growth. Tomato under NF system Indian Farming 54 October 2024 • Use of natural seed varieties: Uses indigenous and heirloom seeds adapted to the local environment rather than genetically modified or hybrid varieties. Practices adopted • Using dry/live mulch as Achadan and creating wapsa channels, and practicing intercropping with leguminous crops. • Preparing and supplying natural farming inputs to nearby farmers. He uses desi breed cows to produce Jeevamrit, Beejamrit, Ghanjeevamrit, and other natural pesticides. • Cultivating capsicum, tomato, cucumber, cauliflower, cabbage, pea, French bean, garlic, etc., under the natural farming system. • Operating his own vermicompost unit with a production capacity of 11 tonnes per year and supplying vermicompost and earthworms to farmers as needed. • Exploring direct marketing channels with Sabji Mandis in Amritsar and Jalandhar, and establishing direct contacts with V Grow, Big Basket, FPOs like Karol Naturals, and Bioferganic Company. He also supplies produce to the natural farming store in Sabji Mandi, Solan. • Disseminating production technology through social media platforms like WhatsApp and Facebook. • Creating awareness among farmers at camps and training sessions organized regularly by KVK. • Sharing natural farming technical knowledge with students and farmers visiting his fields during exposure visits organized by KVK. Comparison between natural farming and conventional farming As per the results obtained in farmer’s field, it is evident that natural farming system proved better as compared to chemical framing system which may be contributed to the low input cost and increase in crop equivalent yield (Table 1). The farmer has followed all the principles of natural farming, viz. seed treatment with beejamrit, jeevamrit, ghanjeevamrit applications at 7-10 days interval, wapsa channels, acchadan with dry grass and application of keetnashi and roganssi dawayein at 7-10 days interval @ 5%. Different crops raised through natural farming practices, achieved higher equivalent yield due to additional yield of intercrops, viz. French beans and fenugreek. Moreover, higher gross, net returns and B:C ratio were obtained as compared to conventional farming system. As per Shri Madan Gopal, there was a tremendous increase in soil physico-chemical and biological properties of soil in natural farming system when compared to the initial status of soil (2017). Benefits and achievements • Reduced cost of cultivation as no external inputs are being used in fields. • Improved soil health by increase in microbial population. • Reduced incidence of pests and diseases. • Regular income as NF crops can sustain abiotic/ biotic stress better than conventional farming crops.