 Prominent varieties released: During the reporting year a number of crop varieties developed by the institute were notified by CVRC including several varieties of rice (Tripura Khara 1, Tripura Khara 2, NICRA Aerobic Dhan 1, TRC 2014-8, Gomati Dhan, TRC 2005-1, Tripura Nirog, Tripura Chikan Dhan, Khowai, Tripura Sarat, Tripura Jala, Tripura Aus, Tripura Hakuchuk-1); three varieties of pulses (TRCP 9- Field Pea, Tripura Mung 1- Greengram, Tripura Maskolai- Blackgram), two varieties of oilseeds (Tripura Siping- Sesame, Tripura Toria), and two varieties of brinjals Physical assets created under STC (TSP) Tripura Khara 2 Tripura Maskolai - Blackgram RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 156 Fertilizer calculator—A newapp to prescribe fertilizer nutrients The Fertilizer Calculator–New App, a new revised version of the app ‘Fertilizer Calculator’ for better performance, was developed and released. It is an entirely offline app for making fertilizer recommendations with or without soil tests. The recommendations can be obtained by feeding inputs such as area or the number of trees, recommended doses of fertilizers for a given site, soil test report (optional) and desired fertilizer grades. It works for both macro and micronutrients. The results would help to use the fertilizer in an appropriate amount and in a balanced way. (TRC Singhnath, TRC Bholanath). Diagnostics for plant and animal health: Rapid diagnostic kits for plant and animal health were developed at the institute. For plant diseases 4 kits were developed including Double Antibody Sandwich- ELISA kits for Passion fruit Potyvirus, RPA-LF Kit for on-site Detection of Candidatus liberibacter asiaticus (Citrus Huanglongbing Disease), isothermal RPA detection kits for pathogens of citrus, passion fruit and chilli. On the animal health side equipment free point-of-care diagnostics based on polymerase spiral reaction and SRCA were developed for Staphylococcus spp., Salmonella spp., Campylobacter jejuni, C. coli and Clostridium perfringens. ISLAND AND COASTAL REGION Vision document to make Goa self-reliant in agriculture released: A vision document, ‘Vision for Development of Agricultural and Allied Sectors: A Way Towards Making Goa Self Reliant (Swayampurna Goa)’, was released during the 26th Meeting of ICAR Regional Committee No. VII. Commercialization of technology- Process for manufacturing of Nutmeg Pericarp Taffy: A Memorandum of Agreement (MoA) was signed between ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute (ICAR-CCARI), Goa and Goa State Biodiversity Board (GSBB), Goa, for commercialization of ICAR-CCARI’s technology “Process for manufacturing of Nutmeg Pericarp Taffy” at ICAR-CCARI, Old Goa on 19 February 2021. The non-exclusive licensing agreement is valid for five years with a licence fee of ` 354,000, fully paid by GSSB, Goa.