15 ha/h with 64.5% field efficiency. The average speed of operation was found to be 1.95 km/h with average seed rate of 5.6 kg/ha. Bullock drawn 8-row pre-germinated paddy seeder-cum-herbicide applicator: A bullock drawn 8-row pre-germinated paddy seeder-cum-herbicide applicator has been developed for simultaneous application of line sowing of pre-germinated paddy seeds and application of pre-emergence herbicide. This enhances the production as compared to manual line transplanting followed by herbicide application by a sprayer. The actual field capacity of the applicator was 0.13 ha/h with field efficiency of 58.3%. The seed rate was 35.4 kg/ha. The cost of operation of bullock drawn 8-row pre-germinated paddy seeder-cum- herbicide applicator is ₹1,032/ha. Development and evaluation of Flue-cured Virginia tobacco leaves stringing machine: In India, Flue-cured Virginia (FCV) tobacco is cultivated mainly in the states of Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Odisha and Maharashtra. A minimum of 4000 kg of fresh leaves (900–1000 leaf sticks) need to be loaded into the curing barn or chamber for high-quality lemon yellow dried tobacco leaves. The curing takes place at linearly increasing temperature of 30–70⸰C for about 120 h (5 days). A flue-cured Virginia tobacco leaf stringing machine has been developed. This unit can produce one stick per 20 s (@4 kg of fresh tobacco leaves/stick) with a stringing capacity of 730±100 kg/h (i.e. 180±10 number of sticks/h) using an oval-shaped (3 mm) needle and yarn (34 counts) made of viscose material. The chain stitches hold the leaves properly and prevent the dropping of even dried leaves. To make the operation faster and continuous, it has been provided with three sets of loading trays. Animal lifting device Findings in a trial revealed that the when animal is in lying down position due to restlessness and discomfort the physiological parameters show abnormality, but when the animal is supported with lifting machine and given therapeutic treatment t h e p h y s i o l o g i c a l parameters reach to normal condition. Traditionally, nearly 6-8 peoples are required to lift an animal and the task is full of drudgery. To ease the task, a low- cost and comfortable animal lifting device has been developed. Use of animal lifting device for physical support and one week of therapeutic treatment of sick animal is helpful in improvement of physiological parameters and healthy recovery. 60% recovery was noted in the test conducted for different sick animals. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 111 Plasma based torrefaction of crop residues: The plasma- based torrefaction of mustard stalks was conducted in a non- thermal plasma reactor. The system generates free and charged radicals in plasma under different levels of vacuum and can generate the vacuum as high as 1000 kPa.