 c) Promotion of integrated farming system: Integrated farming systems are important for efficient management of available resources at the farm level, to generate adequate income and employment for the rural poor, for promotion of sustainable agriculture, for protection of the environment, and for livelihood security. The synergistic interactions of the components of farming systems need to be exploited to enhance resource-use efficiency and recycling of farm by-products. The IFS models for different classes of farm have the potential to generate additional income and employment than with rice-wheat or rice-rice alone, the system currently prevalent in major parts of the nation. Furthermore, these models may help resolve through diversification some of the existing land degradation and other agriculture-related problems, and also minimise risk to sustainability. The study illustrates the necessity to adopt an integrated approach, instead of a commodity- and disciplined- based one. d) Gender empowerment for food and nutritional security: Hidden hunger continues to haunt a large section of Indian population. Capacity building for nutrition education should be promoted. Nutri Farming System or Nutri Farming model would help farmers to grow 193 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead and trade nuti-rich food and earn better remuneration and at the same time help in eradicating hidden hunger. Gender empowerment is essential to face the changing paradigm shifts in agriculture. Mainstreaming the gender perspective needs to be reflected in all our policies and programs. Promotion of employment opportunities for SHGs through financial support and technological backstopping could bring a sea change in rural livelihood systems. Gandhiji always emphasized upon upliftment of women for the welfare of society. e) Facilitation of institutional convergence: Very often there remain gaps at planning or implementation levels and we witness the malaise of duplication of efforts, sporadic efforts or incoherent efforts. There should be activation of inter-departmental working groups at district and block levels for effective channelization of the schemes, provisions and welfare measures. Here there could be complementary arrangement of both top-down as well as bottom-up planning and engagement of public, private and farmers institutions/ organizations. f) Creation of custom hired services of farm machineries for efficiency Today’s agriculture needs precise as well as timely management of tillage, inputs, and inter-cultural as well as other farm operations. Mechanization is the need of the hour for time-, energy-, and cost-effective accomplishment of farm operations. Gandhiji is often criticized that he was against mechanization but in fact he only disfavoured mechanization which robed the hands of job. He did not criticize innovations for efficiency.