 If the roots will be used as planting material for the coming season, then roots can be harvested in the month of March-April. After the digging of roots, shade drying needs to be done for 3 to 4 days to remove the moisture and adhered soil. For sale as a raw material for drugs, the washing and peeling of roots skin should be done immediately after harvest by mechanically scraping with a knife. Thereafter, it should be dried in partial shade at 35-40°C for 3-4 days in a uniform thin layer with occasional stirring so that it retain its white colour and can fetch a premium price. After drying, musli must be packed in poly bags to prevent the entry of moisture and properly labeled with all details. Spray of bio-fungicide Storage of planting material: The fasciculated roots after harvest are kept in the shade for about a week so that root bunches lose excess moisture. Two methods are majorly used for the storage of roots, one is that roots should be mixed with dry sand and kept in a plastic or wood container or else perforated plastic bags of 5 to 10 kg capacity under the shade at room temperature with less than 60% humidity of room while in second case, roots can be mixed with dry sand kept in pits 15-20 cm deep in soil under the shade. Yield and economics The fasciculated root yield of safed musli may vary significantly according to growing conditions. However, an average of 2-3 tonne fresh root yield can be obtained from a one-hectare crop under favourable growing conditions. This yield gives about 0.4-0.6 tonne marketable dry root yield. The net return from the safed musli depends mainly on the crop yield per unit area and the market price at the time of sale. However, on average, dry root yields up to 400 to 600 kg/hectare, and the current selling price is about ` 1400/kg of dry root, a gross and net return of ` 6.0 to 7.0 lakhs and R 3 to 4 lakhs per hectare respectively, may be obtained. Marketing and market demand The raw drug of safed musli in the form of dry roots and root powder is regularly traded in Delhi, Neemach, Jabalpur and Indore, and other local markets. The estimated annual trade of safed musli in India is about 150 to 250 MT. The global markets for safed musli are USA, Britain, Australia, Japan, and European countries. Safed musli has an annual demand of over 50,000 tonnes worldwide which is much higher than present production (<5,000 tonnes). The powder of Safed musli is in great demand as a sexual energy capsule. For further interaction, plase write to: Dr Khadke G N (Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: khadke.gn@icar.gov.in Withering of leaves September–October 2023 19 Prospects of senna cultivation in India The scenario of senna cultivation in the arid and semi-arid regions of India has been discussed in this article. Senna is a rainfed crop and it can tolerate drought conditions and requires low inputs for its cultivation.