7 - Twig implantation (at the time of flowering) 10 14 - 26.9 - Twig implantation + leaf (after insect infestation)5 8 - 31.2 - Twig implantation (after infestation) 6 10 4 28.7 22.0 Malathion dust 1 3 2 30.0 23.1 Control 10 17 10 27.3 20.1 CD (P=0.05) 0.38 0.32 5.1 2.0 *Average of 6 farmers; DAT, days after treatment. PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT revealed that parasi was used as a tradition against rice-insect pest by all the farmers, 25 or 30 years back. Fifty five farmers were interviewed for validation. About 76% farmers use parasi against gundhi bug. Though they are aware of chemical pesticides such as monocrotophos, phospho-midon, phorate and quinolphos, they use parasi to control pests other than gundhi bug also. About 20% of the farmers use insecticide dusts whichever is available in the market. Farmers broadcast leaves and also put twigs of parasi, @ 40_45 twigs per acre. Accordingly, increase in yield was also reported by the farmers by using parasi (Table 1). Experiment Results obtained from the experiment conducted at Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI) and in farmer's field revealed that gundhi bug infested the paddy inspite of application of parasi. But there was decrease in population for the treatment where it was applied after infestation and applied as fresh twigs or leaf. The yield was also highest in the treatment. But a significant increase in yield was not obtained in parasi treatment than in untreated control (Table2). CONCLUSION Gundhi bug population was reduced by applying both fresh leaves and planting twigs after gundhi bug infestation.  PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code : 1115 Title of the ITK : Control of khaira disease in paddy by application of lime and cowdung Description of the ITK : Khaira disease has been reported in many villages of Bareilly and Badaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. The disease is caused by mineral deficiency. About 2_3 kg of lime and one bucket of cowdung are mixed in 200 litres of water. This solution is sprayed on the affected crop of paddy. One spray controls the disease by 50%. The farmers use this indigenous practice to control the disease. Name and address of the discloser : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 Location of use of the ITK : The disclosure mentions that the practice is being used in the villages of Bareilly and Badaun districts of Uttar Pradesh. The khaira disease of rice is a serious problem in tarai area of Uttar Pradesh. The name khaira was given by local farmers to indicate a reddish brown discolouration of the leaves of the diseased plants. The disease has been responsible for causing serious damage to rice crop, some times up to 100 per cent. khaira disease can be identified by stunting and poor growth of affected plants, brown specks on leaf and leaf sheath and brittleness of the leaves.