 A perennial tuff grass 6–18 feet high, erect or decumbent, common in the plains of India, particularly in sandy and dry regions. It is cultivated in Punjab and south India for fodder. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 327 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 75 Centella asiatica Indian pennywort H Brahma- manduki B-Thol Khuri M-Karinga Tel-Brahmi Tam-Vallarei The plant enjoy considerable reputation in Indian system of medicine as diuretic, alterative and tonic. An infusion of plant is used in India and Medagascar in the treatment of leprosy. A bitter principle, vellarine, pectic acid and resin are present in the leaves and roots of the plant. The glycoside, asiaticoside has been isolated in crystaline form. It has been shown to be active in the treatment of leprosy. The tree is also reported to posses insecticide properties. A prostrate perennial, faintly aromatic herb found wild through out India and Sri Lanka up to an altitude of 2000 feet. 76 Chenopodium album Lamb’s quarters H- Bethusag B-Chandan betu T- Parupukkirai Tel- Pappukura The plant contains ethereal oil, substance resembling cholesterol, and ammonia and amines both in free and combined forms. The plant may serve as a field indicator for magnesium element. A small odorless herb occurring in many forms, wild and cultivated, through out India up to an altitude of 14000 feet. In the western Himalayas. It is grown as pot herbs and grain crop. 77 Chenopodium ambrosioides Mexican tea - The plant is anthelmintic, and volatile oil obtained from it is used as a medicine. The oil is effective against many forms of intestinal parasites. All parts of plant (specially the root) contain saponin. The ascaridol has anthelmintic principle. The oil is effective against many insecticidal parasites. An erect much branched herb, 2 to 4 feet high with aromatic granular hair, occurring in Bengal, and south India. The flowers are minute and are cluster in leafy spike. 78 Chrysanthemum coronarium Chrysan- themum H- Guldaudi B- Guldaudi Urdu- Gulechini T-Shamantipu Tel-Chamanti Kan-Sevanti The flower has very bitter taste, and is said to be stomachic and aperient. Leaves are used as depurent and prescribed in migraine. This species is considered to be native of China and Japan and is extensively cultivated in Indian gardens for its ornamental multicoloured flower. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 328 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 79 Cicca acida Stargoos berry H- Harfarauri B-Hariphal Te- Rachyusirika T-Aranelli Kan- Aranelli Mal- Aranelli The roots and seeds are cathartic. The juice of the root bark is used as a poison, it produces headache, sleepiness accompanied by severe abdominal pain.