 1389 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used hi ITK Names in Indian languages 766 Techniques for raising horticultural crops Volume 2, pages 286-287 Linseed Bengali: masina; Gujarati: alsi; Hindi: Alsi, tisi; Kannada: agasi; Marathi: javas; Sanskrit: atasi; Tamil: alivirai; Telugu: avisi. Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Linseed Linum usitatissimum Linn. It is demulcent, emollient, expectorant and diuretic, it is astringent after roasting. The whole seed is prescribed as a laxative An erect annual, 60-120 cm high, cultivated throughout the plains of India and up to an altitude of 1,800 m; flowers small, blue, bluish violet or white, in terminal panicles; fruits capsular, with five cells, each containing 2 seeds; seeds Habit yellowish or blackish brown, small, flattened, oval, with smooth shining coat. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names 240 Increasing the germination of solanaceous tropical vegetables Volume 2, pages 287-288 Coconut and palmyra Coconut: Bengali: dab, narikel; Hindi: nariyal; Kannada: tengu; Malayalam: thenna, thenga, narikelam; Marathi: narel, naral; Sanskrit: narikela; Tamil: tennaimaram, tenkai', Telugu: kobbarichettu, narikelamu, tenkaya. Palmyra: Assamese: tal; Bengali: tal, talgachh; Gujarati: tad; Hindi: tad, tal, tar-ka-jhar; Kan: taalimara, taatinungumara; Malayalam: karimpana, nongu (kernel), pana, talam; Marathi: tad, talat-mad, tamar; Oriya: talo, tanlo, tri-norajo; Sanskrit: thrinaraja; Tamil: karumpanei, nonku (kernel), panai-marom; Telugu: taadi (taati-) chettu, tooti. Coconut: Coconut Palmyra: Brab tree, palmyra palm Coconut: Cocos nucifera Linn. Palmyra: Borassus flabellifer Linn. Flowers Contents ITK— GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Active ingredients Geographical indications Coconut: The fresh kernel is consumed all over the India and it forms an ingredient of many Indian food preparations. Coconut cake forms a valuable feeding stuff for cattle. Palmyra: In Tamil Nadu the leaves are employed as green manure for paddy and also to reclaim saline and alkaline soils; they are said to be a source of potasium. Sometimes they are fed to cattle. Coconut: A tall and stately palm, growing to a height of 80 ft., or more when fully mature, bearing a crown of large pinnate leaves. The trunk is stout (l-l'/i ft diameter), straight or gently curved, rising from a swollen base surrounded by a mass of roots; rarely branched, it is marked by ring-like leaf scars which are not prominent. The leaves are 6-18 ft, long, pinnatisect; leaflets 2-3 ft long, narrow and tapering. In the axil of each leaf is a spathe enclosing a spadix, 4-6 ft long, stout, straw or orange-coloured, and simply branched. The palm is monoecious. The female flowers are relatively few, 1 in. long and globose, borne at the base of the panicle.