 Another important dimension to boost productivity and bring about increased prosperity is to nurture the soil with quality nutrients and inputs. Under the Soil Health Card Scheme, the government is issuing soil cards to farmers with crop-wise recommendations of nutrients and fertilizers required for the individual farms to help farmers to improve productivity through judicious use of inputs. IARI PUSA STFR meter is also very helpful for soil test based nutrient recommendation. Promotion of value addition through food processing Agricultural crops are predominantly perishable in nature and after harvest, need to be cleaned, sorted, stored, processed, packed and transported. Cold storage facilities available are to be dedicated for the local farmers and affordable machineries for cleaning, sorting and processing crops should be available right at the farm. The scheme for Mega Food Parks aims to provide modern Infrastructure for food processing Units in the country on pre-identified cluster basis. Under the scheme, grant-in-aid is provided @50 per cent of the eligible project cost, subject to a maximum of Rs.50 crores per project. Providing efficient marketing mechanism e-National Agriculture Market (e-NAM) is a pan-India electronic trading portal which networks the existing APMC mandis to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities. It provides information on commodity arrivals and prices, buy and sell trade offers, provision to respond to trade offers, among other services. Online market reduces transaction costs and information asymmetry. Aggregation of the farmers in form of Farmer Organizations, Farmer producer Companies, etc. will help them achieve economies of scale and benefits of direct marketing, thereby increasing the producer’s share in consumer rupee. Mitigating the risk in crop production Government scheme Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) provides insurance to cover yield losses occurring due to deficit rainfall or adverse seasonal conditions, non- preventable risks, viz. drought, dry spells, flood, inundation, pests and diseases, landslides, natural fire and lightening, storm, hailstorm, cyclone, etc. The rate of insurance charges payable by the farmers will be 2 per cent for Kharif crops, 1.5per cent for Rabi crops, 5 percent for annual commercial and horticultural crops. In addition, the farmers can adopt various climate smart varieties and technologies (e.g. Pusa Basmati 1509, Pusa Basmati 1121, Pusa Gautami, Pusa Amulya, Pusa Basant etc.) to deal with various biotic and abiotic stresses. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 119 Diversification and commercialization of agriculture The farmers should shift attention from conventional cropping towards other allied enterprises like flower cultivation, honey bee cultivation, fisheries, mushroom cultivation, protected cultivation of exotic vegetables etc.