 Clinical observation in cattle In harjore treatment the heart rate decreased continuously and reached almost within normal range (43-50/min) after 30 days at Ranchi. In plastered animals it did not decrease throughout Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 7. Comparative data of different parameters after treatment of fractured bone with plaster at different intervals in cattle at BAU Table 8. Effect of fracture healing using harjore paste on calcium, phosphorus and alkaline phosphatase profile in dogs at CSKHPKV the period of observation, perhaps due to stress caused by immobility posed by plaster. Moreover, decrease in heart rate after harjore treatment might be due to good healing effect as well as lack of pain and normal blood supply at the site of injury. There was marked increase in rate of respiration on day as compared to normal value (12-16/min.). However, the initial increase was more in animals treated with plaster of paris (Table 7). No marked difference in rectal temperature was observed between both the treatments. Haemogloblin, packed cell volume, TEC and TLC remained almost same in both the groups (Tables 6 and 7). Haemato-biochemical observations in dogs All the dogs showed an insignificant rise in neutrophil count in the immediate post-operative period, which gradually decreased to normal by day 14 in most of the animals. No significant change was observed in other haematological parameters throughout the period of study in the animals both inter-group as well as intra-group. Calcium levels in blood increased slightly in group B and decreased slightly from day 0 to day 3. However, the variation in these values was insignificant. The blood-calcium levels remained slightly higher but insignificant in both the groups at all subsequent observation intervals except on Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE day 7 (Table 8). The blood phosphorus values also remained at slightly higher level on most of the observation intervals except on day 3 in group B; whereas in group A these values were higher continuously since day 7 after operation. The change was however non-significant between the days as well as between the groups (Table 8). The alkaline phosphatase activity in the blood of the animals of both the groups was significantly higher on days 3 and 7 and became normal subsequently by day 14 (Table 8). Radiological evaluation in dogs The radiographs taken immediately after creation of fracture and co-optation of limb on day 0 showed the presence of a clear radiolucent line of fracture in the mid-diaphysis of ulna in all the animals of both groups (Fig. 2 Al and Bl). The fracture line appeared widened in the radiographs taken on day 15 after operation (Fig. 2 A2 and B2). However, in group B this widening was restricted more or less only in the outer third portion of the fracture line.