3 mg 30% Electrolytes Sodium 4 mg <1% Potassium 240 mg 5% Minerals Calcium 84 mg 8% Copper 0.051 µg 5.5% Iron 1.5 mg 19% Magnesium 34 mg 8% Manganese 0.218 mg 9% Phosphorus 37 mg 5% Selenium 1.5 µg 3% Zinc 0.39 mg 3% (Source: USDA National Nutrient Database) Indian Horticulture 18 B-complex vitamins embedded in these beans. Some of the essential minerals such as iron, copper, manganese, calcium, phosphorus, magnesium is concentrated in them. Manganese is utilized in the human body as a co- factor for the powerful antioxidant enzyme, superoxide dismutase. Winged bean green leaves, are an excellent source of fibre, vitamin A, C and minerals. Hundred grams of fresh leaves provide 45 mg of vitamin C (75% of recommended daily value) and 8090 IU of Vitamin A (270% of RDA). Fresh, young winged bean pods are one of the finest sources of folates. Hundred grams beans provide 66 µg or 16.5% of daily requirement of folates. Folate, along with vitamin B-12, is one of the essential components of DNA synthesis and cell division. Adequate folate in the diet around conception and during pregnancy may help prevent neural-tube defects in the new-born baby. Fresh winged beans contain quite a good amount of vitamin-c as 18.3 mg/100g, or 31%. Vitamin C is a powerful water- soluble antioxidant, and helps in building immunity against infections, maintaining blood vessel elasticity, and offers some protection against cancers when adequately provided in the diet. Tender, immature pods of winged beans are one of the very low-calorie vegetables as 100g beans carry just 49 calories. Adaptation amid changing climatic conditions Winged bean can tolerate drought, flood, extreme t e m p e r a t u r e s , pests and diseases to a greater extent than other major staple crops. The diversification of global food systems with this vegetable can prove to be an effective instrument in addressing the extreme weather patterns or the effects of long-term climate change while tackling the problem of dietary imbalances being faced by the world in present era. It is estimated that food supply must be doubled by 2050 to cope with the adverse impacts of climate change and population pressure on global food systems. The diversification of staple crops and the systems in which they grow is essential to make future agriculture sustainable, resilient, and suitable for local environments and soils. A recent analysis conjures up a worrying picture of global food consumption patterns and urges people to consume a broader range of food sources to combat malnutrition and global food insecurity, which is expected to grow further. That implies humans should consume more of the world's underutilized crops, also known as ‘potential’ or ‘minor’ crops. One notable feature of the winged bean is the potential for almost all parts of the plant to be eaten, including leaves, flowers, tuberous roots, pods and seeds, whereas stems and leaves are used as fodder.