 He is conserving resources through collection of run of water through contour bunding, insect and pest management through need based pesticides application, use of pheromone traps, growing of trap crops, regular spray of panchagavya etc. Integrated water management practices in the form of drip with fertigation has been implemented. Indigenous technical knowledge such as smudging in mango, neem based pesticides, application of organic manure @ 5 tons/ha and tank silt @ 20 tons/ha are being practiced for mango. For adoption of IFS and outstanding innovations in the field of organic farming and sericulture, he has been credited with the several awards. Before adoption, his farm income was Rs. 6,12,800/-. After the adoption of IFS with multi-enterprise agriculture enhanced his annual income by 62% (Rs. 9,90,000). 2. Benefits of FPO: a success story in Karnataka Since Karnataka does not have an exclusive market to sell their organic produce, farmers who followed the organic methods of farming were unable to market their produce. This resulted in the ending up in a common market, thereby defeating the whole purpose. At this juncture, Sahaja Samrudha, an organisation led by farmers and farming experts has developed a connectivity network of consumers and producers for procurement and marketing under the brand name “Sahaja Organics”. Sahaja Samrudha Organic Producers Company Ltd., has been formed to market organic produce. Presently, the company has over 750 organic producers, who are also the shareholders. This apart, the company has around 2500 farming families (30 farmers’ group) in its network. The Producer Company will facilitate farmers to exhibit and sell their produce with a good price ear marked. The produce is procured directly from the farmer and supplies it to the network outlets. This chain has been created for the produce to reach the consumer directly. The firm pays a premium price of 15-20 percent higher than the traditional market price, while it retains a nominal amount for its sustenance. 268 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Sahaja promotes only organic and traditional crops of rice, millets and pulses. These crops are in great demand in the urban areas for their nutritional value and medicinal value, especially the millets and red rice. Being one of the largest wholesalers of organic grains in the state, it supplies organic products to around 80 retail outlets in Bangalore and around. However, the company has only one storehouse and retail outlet. In addition, as a direct sales initiative, it organizes annual red rice melas, seed festivals and safe food melas in cities, tier-2 and tier-3 towns in which the farmers sell their produce to consumers at a fair price.