 The 10 days of pre-storage period before seed extraction resulted in maximum seed yield and quality under Bengaluru conditions. These seeds also retained their viability and vigour even after 12 months of storage under ambient conditions. Spraying with mixture of ferrous sulphate @ 0.2%, calcium nitrate @ 0.2% and boron @ 0.1% gave maximum seed yield (1.07 q/ha) with highest B:C ratio (2.63) in chilli var. LCA 620 at Lam, Andhra Pradesh, whereas it had maximum seed productivity in chilli var. Azad Mirch 1 (1.23 q/ha) at Kanpur with maximum B:C ratio (2.35). Similarly, at Jabalpur also maximum (2.8 q/ha) seed yield of chilli var. Pusa Jwala was recorded due to this treatment. Hence, it was recommended for Lam (zone-VI), Kanpur (zone-IV) and Jabalpur (zone-VII) conditions. Integrated phosphorus management in acidic soils: Observations in acidic soils of Udhagamandalam hills, Tamil Nadu revealed that rock-phosphate can substitute the application of single super phosphate (SSP) in potato when applied in combination with the phosphate solubilizing bacteria (Bacillus megaterium). Significantly maximum yield (22.72 tonnes/ha) of potato varieties such as Kufri Swarna and Kufri Sahyadri was recorded with single super phosphate which is at par with 100% P supplied as rock-phosphate + PSB (20.12 tonnes/ha). Thus, rock-phosphate + PSB could be used as an effective alternative source for phosphorus in acidic soils under peninsular India. Weed management in taro: Mulching with plastic ground cover mats was found effective for weed management in taro resulting in 95–98% weed- control efficiency and maximum cormel yield (22–30% increase over hand weeding) based on the preliminary findings. Nutrient requirement of swamp taro: Nutrient requirement of swamp taro was worked out to be 15 tonnes of FYM and 120- 60-90 kg/ha of N, P2O5 and K2O to produce optimum growth and yield of stolons in Assam, Tripura, West Bengal and Kerala, based on preliminary data. Dairy waste compost as a potting medium in black pepper: A method has been developed to produce dairy waste compost (leftover paddy straw, fodder grass and weeds in dairy unit) using jeevamruthum, enriched rock- phosphate and poultry manure as nutrient sources. Analysis revealed that enriched compost contained significant amount of nitrogen (0.61%), phosphorus (1.59%), potassium (0.35%), calcium (2%) and magnesium (0.33%) within 60 days of fermentation period. By using this compost as one of the ingredients in potting mixture for the production of rooted cuttings, 88 cuttings could be harvested per mother plant/year in black pepper. Thus, dairy waste compost can be used as an alternative medium to normal potting mixture for the production of healthy rooted black pepper cuttings. Artificial technology for production of guchchhi mushroom: For the first time, production of guchchhi mushroom (Morchella) under semi natural conditions was successful in greenhouse.