 The food materials in 10 replicates were tested organoleptically (sensory method) by a panel of 10 judges selected from the villagers as well as scientists of the university using 9–point Hedonic Rating scale. Selection of judges was done out of 30 persons (experts and experienced) by providing them different concentrations of chief ingredients. The persons having average scores were selected. The parameters included in the study were colour, aroma or flavour, taste and overall acceptability. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Assessing different preparations of munga sag An attempt was made in this study to assess different preparations using munga leaves and flowers. For matrix scoring, 6 different preparations were taken into account. Table 1 shows that vegetable of munga leaves scored higher than of the flowers. Fresh leaves of munga Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessing different dietary preparations from munga leaf and flower Dietary preparation Leaf Flower Fresh vegetable 90 68 Dry parts (sukhauta) 70 9 Fresh vegetable + dal 86 4 Sukhauta + dal 10 0 Sukhauta + rice water 74 0 Fresh part + rice water 65 0 In terms of availability, leaves of munga scored higher than the flowers, because leaves are found throughout the year, whereas flowers are available only in the winter season. Except sale value, all other properties were favourable for the preparations made from the leaves. Table 2. Matrix scoring for assessing the properties of two food materials prepared by using leaves and flowers of munga Property Leaf Flower Medicinal value 80 60 Deliciousness 86 76 Value addition 72 10 Availability 96 48 Popularity 90 80 Sale value 26 92  ETHNIC FOOD Table 3. Sensory evaluation of vegetables prepared from munga leaves and flowers Product Colour Aroma/flavour TasteOverall acceptability Vegetable of fresh leaves 7 7 8 7.33 Vegetable of dry leaves 6 5 7 6.00 Vegetable of fresh flower 8 6 6 6.66 Vegetable of dry flower 4 5 5 5.00 Experiment Sensory analysis of the food materials was done (Table 3). The mean scores for organoleptic characteristics reveal that cooked vegetable of fresh leaves of munga prepared with oil, tomatoes that all preparations of dry flowers of munga are also organoleptically acceptable. Laboratory studies Laboratory analysis for estimation of the and spices were very high (7.33) in comparison to vegetables of dry leaves, fresh flowers and dry flowers. Most of the organoleptic characteristics of vegetable of fresh leaves were rated high, ranging from 7 to 8 scores. It is also evident that vegetable of fresh flower of munga was also organoleptically rated high, (i.e. 8, 6 and 6) in terms of colour, aroma and taste, respectively. However, vegetable of dry flowers was rated poorly (i.e. 4, 5 and 5) in terms of colour, aroma and taste respectively than other preparations. Mean scores on overall acceptability indicated chemical composition of leaves of munga was done. Results are presented in Table 4.