 HORTICULTURE To update and upgrade the current methods and teaching and to identify the issues which need ICAR’s intervention in terms of functioning and logistic support were discussed. In all 17 Deans participated, facilitated by Dr D.V. Raghava Rao, Dean, Horticulture, APHU, Venkataramannagudem, A.P. and Dr O.P. Jyothi, Registrar, University of Horticultural Sciences, Bagalkot, Karnataka. Dr V. Radhakrishna Murthy, Professor (Acad.), ANGRAU, Hyderabad, A.P. was the Rapporteur. The group discussed issues as specified and the following recommendations were made: 1. Identification of colleges/departments for teaching excellence in the new and emerging areas/courses may be included in the revised curriculum for shared curriculum delivery. Dr Y.S. Parmar, University of Horticulture & Forestry offered to act as Centre of Excellence for teaching in “Temperate Horticultural Crops & Nuts”. The College of Horticulture, Dr BSKKV, Dapoli for “Fruit Science” and for “Medicinal Crops” Andhra Pradesh Horticultural University, Venkataramannagudem, A.P. were identified. 2. Identification of critical areas for ICAR grants/support including infrastructure development and faculty training / development, students’ progression and how it should be provided by ICAR. ●Experiential Learning ●Girls Hostels ●Development of Instructional Farms at every campus ●Establishment of Quality Control Laboratories ●Allocation of funds to the established colleges from the first year of establishment onwards as a one-time grant 21 3. Changes felt necessary in UG & PG curriculum and syllabi. (a) It was felt necessary to include post-harvest Technology in the faculty of Horticulture which is now missing. It should be included in the syllabus. The lead will be taken by Dr BSKKV, Dapoli, Maharashtra. (b) Organic system of cultivation may be included both in UG & PG syllabi (c) It is necessary to train the faculty at UG & PG levels on newer areas including Biotechnology, Molecular Biology, maintenance of Genetic Resources, Breeding of Horticultural Crops etc. (d) It is felt essential to ensure uniformity in course curricula for all the courses of Horticulture faculty common to all colleges. A meeting with all Deans and College Heads of horticultural universities may be convened at Dr Y.S. Parmar, University of Horticulture & Forestry, Solan, Himachal Pradesh. 4. How to address the problem of shortage of faculty? To overcome this problem it is felt necessary that the adjunct and guest faculty from other universities & colleges where expertise is available may be utilized. The discipline of Horticulture may be included in the syllabus of ASRB. FISHERIES SCIENCES In all nine participated in the discussion moderated by, Dr S.R. Koteswara Rao and the following recommendation emerged: 1. To improve the quality of education, a committee may be constituted to examine current status in the country and suggest measures to produce professionals who will be globally competent and locally relevant.