 Trainings on ‘Online article processing’, ‘Technical writing’, ‘Role of Reviewer in quality research journals’, ‘Book writing’ and ‘Success Stories’ were conducted. One month training programme on Publication Production Management was organized. Students were exposed to all publication aspect like editing, proof reading, typesetting, printing and production, sales and marketing in the training programme. The e-books were also brought out and copies of the electronic CDs were distributed among farmers in the meetings and rallies of the Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. The ICAR web page was revised and current news items were posted in web mode. Development of e-resources on agricultural knowledge and information for global exposure is done through http://www.icar.org.in and http://epub. icar.org.in/ejournal. The Directorate has facilitated DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2018–19 121 Knowledge and information products The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences the flagship monthly research journals of the Council, are available in open- access mode (hhtp://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal). The in- house journals like ICAR Reporter and ICAR News are also posted on ICAR website, Special issues of INFORMATION, COMMUNICATION AND PUBLICITY SERVICE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2018–19 122 online access to 2,000 journals from a single subscription in more than 123 libraries under CeRA project of NAIP. During 2017 Business Unit has achieved the target of ` 65 lakh through sales of ICAR publications. Business Unit participated in major agricultural and science related events for distribution of ICAR publications and showcasing ICAR publications to agricultural community. Social media The ICAR website was updated on regular basis, 1,375 new pages were created, and total number of page-views 13,292,897 from 221 countries visited the website from across the globe; the top five countries include India, United States of America, United Kingdom, Union Arab Emirates, and Nepal. DARE website received GIGW certification in 2018. The website is updated regularly. E- Krishi Manch, a web based public utility, is a public-connect platform for stakeholders in more efficient, quick and simple manner by direct approach. This website has 5775 registered users. ICAR facebook page https://www.facebook.com/ InAgrisearch/ has 170,730 likes and 171,147 followers. On an average one post is uploaded to ICAR facebook page every day. ICAR twitter handle https://twitter.com/ icarindia has 36.5 K followers. On an average one tweet is posted every day. Till date, 1,865 tweets have been posted. The YouTube Channel of ICAR includes video films, animations, lectures/interviews by dignitaries and eminent scientists, proceedings of national and international events, etc. Some of the popular documentaries have received more than 250,000 views. ICAR YouTube channel has 184 videos and 29,898 subscribers.