3 ICAR Headquarters and ICAR Institutes. 3.4 Agricultural Universities. 3.5 General Universities – which are involved in Post-graduate teaching and research in agriculture and allied sciences and have been established by an act of either the state legislature or the Parliament or are recognized by the U.G.C. 4. 4.1. 4.1. 4.1. 4.1. 4.1. 4.2. 4.2. 4.2.2 4.2.3 4.2.4 4.3 Nature Nature 1 For Pub 2 For ho Consult Societie graduat 3 For hol Priority bodies, General and alli 4 For spo holding get use includin institute and sc seminar compet Quantu 1 For hold individu its relev will, h seminar/ 5.00 l event wi 2 For pub category (NAAS (NAAS 3. The gran will also as a who 4 The Cou one Jour Freque Any soc eligible e and quant of grant blication of olding Nati tation on es, Public/q te teaching a ding Nation y Theme Ar ICAR Hea l Universiti ied sciences onsoring Pri g of national ful and imp ng on its we es), univers cientific so r/symposium itive basis. um of grant ding seminar ual society/as vance and pe however, no /symposium/ lakhs on the ill be determ blication of j y journals (N Rating: betw Rating: betw nt for publica o have to incu ole as a matc uncil’s suppo rnal. ency of gran ciety/associat for tum of gran Journal to S ional/Intern the theme quasi-public and research nal Seminar rea to Scien adquarters es having p s. iority Them l seminar/sy plementable ebsite, the li sities includ ocieties for m. The sele t r/symposium ssociation/ in rformance a ot be mor / conference e theme iden mined on case journal, the NAAS Ratin ween 4.0 an ween 2.0 and ation of jour ur at least 50 ching grant. ort to a Socie nt tion/body re Council’s nt Scientific/P national Sy e chosen b c bodies an h in agricul r/Symposium ntific/Profe and its Ins post-graduat me Areas of ymposium/c e recommen ist of such a ding genera r seeking ection of a m/conference nstitution wil as also merit re than e on the topi ntified by th e to case basi amount of ng: Above 6) nd 5.9), and d 3.9) as per rnal will be o 0% of the exp ety for public egistered und financial Professional ymposium/S by them, nd General lture and all m/Conferen essional Soc stitutes, Agr te teaching f topical rele conference ndations. IC areas to all al as well a good pro suitable hos e, the quantu ll be determi of the propo 3.50 la c chosen by he Council. T is, but will no assistance w ), 1.50 lak d 1.00 lakh the evaluatio on matching b penditure rel cation of Jou der the Socie assistan Societies. Seminar/Con to Scienti Universitie ied sciences nce on the I cieties, Pub ricultural U and researc evance and within a spe CAR will w institutes (i as agricultur oposals to sting institu um of financ ined after tak osal. The fin akhs for h the grantee The amount ot exceed will be 2.0 khs for ’B’ c hs for ’C’ c on of the Cou basis i.e. the lated to publi urnal will be ety Registrat ce for nference/Ex ific/Professi es having p s.