 (A) Binary vector harbouring LshCas13a and gRNA expression cassette; (B) Modified TRV RNA2 vector expressing LshCas13a-specific gRNA expression cassette under PEBV promoter Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 172 pressure in soils polluted with nano zinc oxide: Soil Zn application as nano-ZnO (nZnO) or bulk ZnO (bZnO) induced marked shifts in bacterial community structure, with dominance of Sphingomonas and Nitrospira under nZnO exposed soils, while Bryobacter, RB41, Candidatus Solibacter and Flavisolibacter dominated under bZnO exposed soils. Genes related to major Zn influx systems viz., znuABC, troABC, ABC.ZM.SPA, sitABC, pitA, zupT, ZntB and ybtX were augmented under nZnO than bZnO. Co-occurrence network analysis revealed poor correlation of soil bacterial communities with major efflux systems such as czcCBA, cusCFBA, zntA, czcD/zitB and yiiP under nZnO, indicating enhanced influx and subdued efflux of Zn under nZnO. Co-occurrence network analysis also revealed significant positive correlations between abundances of ZRGs (Zn resistance genes), ARGs (antibiotic resistance genes) and mobile genetic elements (MGEs), indicating an enhanced probability for co-selection and horizontal Enhancing decomposition rate and quality of bio-waste through microbial consortia for improving soil health The potential lignoceullulotytic microbes (including bacteria, fungi, actinomycetes) were identified and the ‘Ekcel decomposer’ consortia was prepared; and the drum type composting unit and shredder machine viz. ‘Ekcel Composter’ and ‘Ekcel Shreder’ were also fabricated, which help in accelerating the decomposition of different bio-waste (viz. farm waste, horticultural waste, kitchen waste and vegetable waste). By using these technologies, quality compost can be readily prepared for field application within 25-45 days depending on substrate, i.e bio-wastes. The field evaluation studies reveal that enriched compost significantly enhanced the crop productivity over recommended dose of fertilizer. The ‘Ekcel decomposer capsule’ was also developed and released. The capsules were used for in-situ and off-situ decomposition of rice-wheat residue in farmer’s field of Bhopal. Heat map depicting dominant Zn homeostatic genes and their regulators in the soil bacterial metagenome exposed to different levels of Zn as nano ZnO and bulk ZnO [Control, Z1- 50; Z2- 200; Z3-500; Z4-1000 mg Zn (II)/kg- as nZnO; Z5-50, Z6-200, Z7-500, Z8-1000 mg Zn/kg as bZnO]. Heat map depicting abundance of biofilm genes related to attachment, matrix formation and bulk ZnO [Control, Z1- 50; Z2- 200; Z3-500; Z4-1000 mg Zn/kg as nZnO; Z5-50, Z6-200, Z7-500, Z8-1000 mg Zn/kg as bZnO]. gene transfer of resistome in nZnO polluted soils. Soil available Zn was the major driver for co-selection of ZRGs and ARGs as well as HGT, and co-transfer of all three genetic determinants could be a high-risk scenario for dissemination of antibiotic resistance under nZnO.