 He briefed about the efforts of ASRB in conducting interviews on time and efforts towards filing up of vacancies, maintenance of the timelines for various positions especially, CAS and introduction of the online ASRB examination system and informed that inputs from Vice Chancellors of the AUs may be invited to improve the score card. He informed that talent from overseas is being encouraged and till date, 20 researchers have joined as Senior Scientists. The inclusion of basic science course in agriculture system was also emphasised. He also offered ASRB assistance for filling up RMP positions in AUs. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR extended warm welcome to all and appreciated the Baramati KVK and described it as a model for all the Universities to follow. The co- operation being extended by the Universities from time to time and proactive initiatives of NARS for ensuring food, nutrition and livelihood security and challenges of vulnerable ecologies were appreciated by him. The visible progress as a result of special grant in several Universities was also lauded. The importance of traditional methods of teaching rather than complete dependence on e-teaching in modern classrooms was emphasized by him, along with the need on sharing of facilities among AUs. The strategies to motivate and inspire youth towards higher agricultural education through use of innovative scientific tools, encouraging capacity building and collaborative research etc. were also highlighted during the presentation. The AUs were encouraged to breach the bar in research for achieving higher quality of education so that they become most sought after destination by the students of other countries as well. He advocated 4 that way forward should be through competitive and consortia modes and performance linked grants. The VCs were complimented for the changes in the AUs through judicious use of sanctioned grants and he was of the view that National Agriculture Education Project would further help to reinforce quality. The need to address governance issues was stressed and the adoption of Model Act by the Government of Karnataka was appreciated by him. He mentioned that there was an urgent need to in stil strength trust and hope for agriculture related activities including education, and development of human resource in agriculture should be the top priority. It was also conveyed, that focus during this plan, will be on impact assessment of all ICAR technologies & NARS. He informed that efforts were on with MHRD to include agricultural education in RUSA. The chairman felicitated Dr. Minhas, Director, NIAM, Baramati for his efforts in organizing the conference at Baramati. Shri P.K. Pujari, Additional Secretary and F.A.