 I C A R - C I F T , Cochin: This centre developed a novel online fish auction platform, e-trading platforms for digital transformation of fisheries supply chain and launched e-auction and retailer portals for digital transformation of national fisheries supply chain. ICAR-CPCRI, Kasaragod: A unique centre of the country for planation based products, organized Rural India Business Conclave; and Certified Agritech Start- up Professional (CAgtSP) Programme in collaboration with Kerala Startup Mission and Kerala Agricultural University. ICAR-DMAPR, Anand: This Center which was recognized by Hon’ble Prime Minister in his Mann Ki Baat, has organized a series of 28 online Agri-Tech Entrepreneurship Development Program (AgritechEDP) in collaboration with Rural Development Foundation, Anand. ICAR-NINFET, Kolkata: Centre’s Start-up Smt. Chitra Saha, proprietor of Piyali Handicrafts, Kolkata has ip, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 209 Progressive Use of Hindi Various useful programmes for public utility and farmers were organized by the institutions of the Council in Hindi and Regional Languages. All activities including agriculture extension related to KVKs located in Hindi speaking areas were also performed in Hindi and Regional Languages. Various publications on different subjects like Agricultural Sciences, Animal and Fishery Sciences and Horticultural Science were brought out in Hindi and Regional Languages by the Council and its institutes from time to time. With a view to provide knowledge of various technologies on agriculture and wider publicity thereof, monthly magazines like Kheti and Phal-Phool were published regularly. In-house journal of ICAR Headquarters Rajbhasha Aalok was published regularly. This magazine includes articles on scientific subjects and government schemes in simple Hindi besides reports of various programmes being organized by the Council and its institutes from time to time. The edition of the magazine for 2021 was released on 16 July 2022 through video conferencing by Hon’ble Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare on the occasion of the Foundation Day of the Council. Total number of notified subordinate offices of the Council under Rule 10(4) of Official Languages Rules 1976 has increased up to 144. During the period under report, 4 meetings of Official Language Implementation Committee were conducted on 20 December 2021; 30 March 2022; 29 June 2022; and 16 September 2022 respectively. In most of the ICAR Institutes/Centers, Official Language Implementation Committees (OLIC) have been constituted and meetings thereof were conducted regularly. Minutes of these committee meetings received at Headquarters were reviewed regularly and appropriate suggestions were given to the concerned institutes for taking remedial measures.