 However, emerging contaminants within these biosolids exhibit similar ecological hazards as those originating from livestock or crop production; specifically, high persistence in soils and sediments, bioaccumulation in aquatic organisms, and frequently, chronic toxicity to exposed species. However, the risks associated with biosolid application can be reduced through pre-treatment and application method. Decisions surrounding use of these fertilizers should be supported by analysis of the potential risks and benefits, with strategies imposed to offset risks. Land drainage and abstraction The primary impact of agriculture on hydromorphology is via artificial drainage and the modification of rivers and streams. Artificial drainage improves the suitability of land for production and is a hallmark of agricultural production. Valipour et al. (2020) documented the long history of this practice in civilizations worldwide, citing evidence from Iran dating as early as c. 4000 BCE, though the modern phase of land drainage could be considered to have developed first in the Netherlands during the 16th Century (Harris, 2017). While it is difficult to estimate the extent of artificially drained land worldwide due to limited records and differences in approach, Schultz et al. (2007) estimated it to be av. 13%, ranging from 3% in least developed countries to 25% in developed countries. Climate and soil type influence the extent of artificial drainage, with drained area as a percentage of cropped area being 29%, 8% and 4.5% for temperate-humid, arid/semi-arid, and humid/semi-humid areas, respectively (Zimmer et al., 2005). It should also be recognized that funding and resources also play a role in the degree of investment in drainage (Schultz et al., 2007). 52 HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters While artificial drainage in itself is not a pressure on water quality, it does provide an accelerated pathway for contaminant transport (Lowrance et al., 1984). Review of the literature indicates strong consensus that nitrate loss is particularly amplified in artificially drained soils due to hydrologic connectivity (Castellano et al., 2019). This may be exacerbated by a concomitant reduction in storage time and consequently, in denitrification (Jahangir et al., 2012; Rivas et al., 2020). There is a trade-off between the beneficial implications of land drainage, which increases the area available for agriculture and improves the productivity of existing farmland versus negative impacts on habitat, species, and on flood mitigation. On a positive note, by creating greater storage and infiltration capacity within the vadose zone artificial drainage may reduce runoff during peak flows from saturated soils (Gramlich et al., 2018). This will influence the timing and type of nutrients lost, and potential for attenuation and transformation prior to reaching a water body.