 Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at DGR and farmers’ fields, Junagadh; multilocations in India through AICRP(G) centres for three years and demonstration through FLDs. 5. Benefits: Improvement in nutrient mobilization and uptake like P, K, N, Fe, Zn, Mn etc. Enhancement in biological nitrogen fixation by 25-30%. Compatible with seed treating chemicals like Bavistin (Carbendazime)/Thiram. Yield advantage can be upto 20% and formulation has shelf life >1 yr at room temperature. Application of NutMagic can save 25-30% of nitrogenous, 30-40% of phosphatic and 25% of potassic fertilizers 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Groundnut Research, Ivnagar Road, PB No. 5, Junagadh-362001 39 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R NutGrow 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): NutGrow: Diacetyl-fluoroglucinol producing multiple plant growth phloroglucinol fluorescent pseudomonads (Pseudomonas putida DAPG2, P. putida DAPG4, P. fluorescens FP98 and Pseudomonas putida FP86) 2. Target crops and delivery system: Groundnut for stimulation of plant growth, solubilisation and mobilization of nutrients besides suppressing soil-borne fungal pathogens like Sclerotium rolfsii, Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus flavus and nematodes. NutGrow can be applied after dilution through irrigation water or through FYM after multiplication in FYM or through drip or as seed treatment or as soil drenching 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All groundnut growing areas 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at DGR and at farmers’ fields, Junagadh; multilocations in India through AICRP(G) centres and demonstration through FLDs. The strains were recommended for cultivation of both summer and kharif groundnut in 2017. 5. Benefits: NutGrow application reduces the mortality of the groundnut seedlings from 73-82% in pathogen control to 21-42% in different treatments inoculated with the inoculant strains against natural death of 5-9% in field conditions with susceptible cultivar GG20. Improves the yield of cultivar GG20 by 13-21% over the years over un-inoculated control. Reduces incidence of collar and stem rot by 40-60%. Improves availability of macro- and micro-nutrients (P, K, Mn, Fe, Zn, etc.) by 20-25%. Controls nematodes in soil. Save upto 30% of externally applied fertilizers like P, K, Zn, Fe, etc. 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Groundnut Research, Ivnagar Road, PB No. 5, Junagadh-362001 40 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R DroughtGuard 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Formulation of Endophytic bacteria: Bacillus firmus J22 2. Target crops and delivery system: For alleviation of drought stress in groundnut, soybean and pigeonpea.