 More important, it has been able to foster a fair degree of integration of research, education and extension education. Central Institutes and Agricultral Universities have been welded together into a symbiotic working partnership through All-India Co-ordi- nated Research Projects. A beginning has also been made towards fostering an integrated approach to crop-livestock-fish production systems in different agro-ecological and socio-cultural milieus. The whole-village operational research projects of ICAR are designed to assess the untapped production reservoir existing at current levels of technology in different farm- ing systems. These projects also help in identifying the constraints which prevent small and marginal farmers and landless labour benefiting from new technology. The organisation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (Farm Science Centres) based on the principle of learning by doing and the identification of breakthrough points for generating opportunities for gainful employment on the basis of an integrated analysis of the material, biological and human resources of an area are among ICAR's recent contributions towards bridg- ing the prevailing gap between the capacity to grow food and the ability to purchase and eat food on the part of a considerable proportion of our population. Steps have also been taken to strengthen mission-oriented basic research so that there is a regular flow of new technology which alone can help to ensure the production of more and more food from less and less land in the years to come. A monitoring mechanism for measuring the return from the investment on agricultural research has been established. Science and education are creative activities. They require men and women of integrity, dedication, scholarship and an attitude of mind where work and recreation are synonymous. An organisation dealing with science and education should have a form which is appropriate to its functions. The ICAR has fortunately now achieved the desired synchrony between its organisational structure and its research and educational mandate. It has a structure which enables it to maintain continuous contact with the policy maker, on the one hand, and the farmer, who is the user and hence the ultimate judge of the value of agricultural research, on the other hand. Its structure also permits the speedy rectification of deficiencies as and when they come to light. The organisation of a Department of Agricultural Research and Education in the Ministry of Agriculture and Irrigation to provide the needed Governmental support and linkages to ICAR has been extremely valuable.