 Keywords: wild banana, pseudostem, colocassia, rice husk Cattle owners of Andaman and Nicobar groups of Islands use different practices for animals, which are as follows: 1. Boiled stems and leaves of ghueya (Colocassia spp.) are fed to milch cow to obtain better milk yield. 2. Crushed booty parti (Eupatorium odoratum) is used for wound dressing for cattle and other domestic animals. Dr Ranjay K. singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri S.K. Zamir Ahmed. Shri R.L. Sagar, Shri Nagesh Ram, Shri B. Singh, Ms. Kanak Lata, Shri Neeraj Shrivastav, Shri N.C. Choudhuri, Shri R. Soundararajan and Shri S.P.S. Ahlawat, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Central Agricultural Research Institute, ;roups Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3375 Health-care management of animals during drought period 3376 Health care of buffaloes 3. Bamboo leaves are used as oral medication in case of retained placenta in cattle. 4. Mixture of tobacco, camphor and lime is used against maggot- infested wounds. 5. Mustard seeds are used in the feeds to build up disease resistance in poultry. 6. Mixture of garlic, turmeric and rice is fed as general treatment for poultry diseases. 7. Rubbing the mixture of salt and mustard oil using stem of ghueya (Colocassia spp.) is followed in cases of mouth abscess in cattle. Keywords: ghueya, booty patti, tobacco, camphor, lime, garlic, turmeric, rice, poultry, salt, mustard oil During the drought and flood conditions, animals are attacked by some diseases. To control these diseases, fruits of deshi babool (Acacia nilotica), vilayati babool (Acacia fernesiana), minthi imali (Pithecellobium bigeminum) leaves and fruits, tubers of montha (Cyperus rotundas), doob grass (Cynodon dactyon) and roots are given to different types of animals. Cow, buffaloes and lactating animals are given babool fruits and large quantity of doob grass. For draught animals like bullocks, minthi imli leaves and large quantity of montha grass are given. This practice is maintaining the heath and milk efficiency. Keywords: deshi babool, vilayati babool, minthi imali, montha, doob grass, babool Buffalo keepers of Jhadol and of Udaipur city have the traditional knowledge to maintain the buffaloes P.B. 181, Port Blair (A&N Islands) 744 101 Dr Ran jay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University. Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Mrs Pana Bail, W/o Shri Heera ba, (near Kalaji Goraji), Bhat ji ki Wadi, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator properly for high milk production as well as their health and hygiene etc.