 Director-General, ICAR, given the status of Secretary, DARE, and Chairman of the Governing Body of the ICAR. Establishment of Agricultural Scientists Recruitment Board (ASRB). 1974 First Krishi Vigyan Kendra established at Puducherry. 1975 Initiation of Agricultural Research Service (ARS) and recruitment of the scientists by Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board (ASRB). 1976 Establishment of the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM). 1979 Launch of Lab-to-Land Programme and the National Agricultural Research Project (NARP). 1984 A separate Division of the Agricultural Extension, headed by the Deputy Director-General (DDG), created in the ICAR. 1987 Separate Divisions for Horticulture and Fisheries, headed by DDGs, carved out of the Crop Science and Animal Science Divisions, respectively. 1988 GVK Rao Committee, constituted to review infrastructure, personnel policies and functional role of the ICAR, submitted its report. Agricultural Engineering Division, headed by a DDG, carved out from the Natural Resource Management Division. Indian Agriculture after Independence 410 Year Milestone 1990 Establishment of the National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS). 1995 Launched World Bank funded Agricultural Human Resource Development (AHRD) project. 1998 Launching of World Bank funded National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP). 2005 Implementation of the National Agricultural Innovation Project and the National Fund for Basic and Strategic Research. 2011 Establishment of Agri-innovate India Ltd. (AgIn) Company. https://icar.org.in/files/vision-2020.pdf 2. Science Leadership: An Overview Agriculture as a sector is probably the oldest one to have research as its core segment, though ‘informally’ practiced by farmers and other biologists in its formative stages. However, as human beings started practicing growing crops and rearing animals, research also started to see improvement. Starting in the mid-19th century, organized agricultural research was taking place in institutions such as the Agricultural Chemistry Association of Scotland, the Agricultural Experiment Station, Saxony, and the Land Grant Colleges in the United States (Loebenstein and Thottappilly, 2001). Around the same time, Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (1929) was established in Delhi, India, which is known today as Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). Currently several organizations and institutions are engaged in agricultural research. Most of the nations have National Agricultural Research System (NARS) consisting of national research institutions, universities, independent research organizations, the private sector, and international research centers. Science leadership needs to resolve many potential areas of disconnect within research, spatial or cultural/social disconnect.