 Gavint (2000-2001) 35 Cow's urine treatment for storage of pulses Large grain pulses such as pigeonpea, and field bean are washed with cow urine and dried in the shade before storage. Kodomillet grains are mixed with pulse seeds to reduce the attack of storage pests. Similarly mixing castor seeds with pulse seeds would also reduce the attack of storage pests (Bangalore, Karnataka). Prasad (1999) 36 Storage of cereals using chickpea leaves Gram leaves can be used for safe storage of cereals like wheat and maize over a long duration of time. The gram leaves are gound and mixed with the cereal (Bhiloda, Gujarat). Makanaji (1998a) 37 Pest control methods (Mixing non-toxic materials with produce) of black gram, gingelly and millets(for seed purposes only) Spreading BHC 10% on the gunny sacs or placing a cloth bag of BHC 10% inside the sacs (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 38 Storage of pulses with neem leaves Neem leaves are put in pulse bags for storage because neem leaves affect hatching of storage pests eggs (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 39 Insect damage control in pigeonpea Coating of overnight soaked pigeonpea grains with drying in shade reduces insect damage and facilitates milling because wetting and drying process loosens husk from kernel and red earth acts as physical barrier to the storage insect (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 154 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 40 Storing the greengram and blackgram by mixing with dry chillies The farmers of Khurda and Nayagarh districts of Orissa usually store completely sun dried greengram and blackgram seeds either in metalbin,tin container or earthern pots mixing with dry chilli @ 1 kg/q of seeds. They put 3 - 4 layers of sand at the bottom portion of the container, then keep sun- dried seeds mixed with dry chillies. Again 3 - 4 inch sand layer is done at the top and lids are tightened properly. In this process greengram and blackgram can effectively and economically be stored for over one year, without any damage by stored grain pests and fungal infection. (viz. Fusarium and Aspergillus spp.) (Khurda and Nayagarh, Orissa). Biswal et al. (2002) 41 Storage of pulse grains by mixing with neem and wood ash In selecting paddy seeds for the next sowing, farmers first identify a few rows where plant growth is better than in the surrounding area. These plants are harvested separately and the seeds carefully threshed. Farmers also select seeds during harvesting. Since paddy is usually stacked in bundles, they can easily identify bearing panicles with bold, heavy, undamaged and fully ripe grains to keep as seed. Pulse grains are usually stored in glass jars: These are preferable to the plastic, tin or other metallic containers which are occasionally used. Most seeds are mixed with neem or samalu leaves before storing; Sometimes the leaves are combined with wood ash.