 We firmly believe that under the prevailing uncertain climatic conditions, these wonderful and multipurpose minor fruit plants being highly drought tolerant and capable of growing on dry wastelands hold a great promise in the region. Ziziphus Mill. is a very important genus of buckthorn family Rhamnaceae native to South Asia and comprising about 100 species of trees, shrubs, climbers, and a herb distributed mostly in the tropical and sub-tropical regions of the world, mainly Asia and America, although few of these extend in the Pacific Islands and Australia. Some of these occur in the temperate regions as well. About 17 species have been reported in India, 12 in China, 13 in Pakistan, 7 in Bhutan, 8 in Nepal and 6 in Bangladesh. Ziziphus trees and shrubs inhabit arid environments on every continent due to their versatility in being able to adapt to drought stress. The fleshy drupes of some species are rich in sugars and vitamins, and this fact has made Ziziphus species important fruit trees for many centuries. The highly nutritious fruits provide a valuable source of energy, vitamins and also income when sold in local markets. The leaves provide fodder for livestock; the hard wood is used for turning, making agricultural implements, fuel and high quality charcoal. More importantly, extract from fruits, seeds, leaves, roots and bark of this plant is used in many traditional medicines to alleviate the effects of insomnia, skin diseases, inflammatory conditions and fever. In many regions, Ziziphus is grown as a hedge; with its spines creating effective live-fencing besides their strong root system stabilizes the soil preventing soil erosion. Some species, like Ziziphus mauritiana and Ziziphus jujuba are found on nearly every continent, whereas other species are restricted in their distribution. These two are major domesticated Ziziphus species for fruit production. In India as well as in China, Ziziphus trees have a long tradition of selection and cultivation, as result a these two species occurring in these countries are better known and more widely researched than those in other regions. Ziziphus mauritiana is commonly cultivated in India, while Ziziphus jujube is predominantly cultivated in China. Ziziphus mauritiana Lamk. (Ber, Indian Jujube, Chinese date, Indian cherry, Indian plum) is highly drought resistant plant, thus considered as an ideal fruit tree for arid and semi-arid regions in tropical and subtropical climates where most of the fruit crops cannot be grown either due to lack of irrigation facilities or adverse climatic and soil conditions. It is found growing wild as well as in cultivated forms throughout the warmer regions up to an altitude of 1500 m above mean sea level. In India, the major ber growing states are Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Maharashtra, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Its plants are large shrubs or trees, may be evergreen and up to 15 meter tall.