 This was necessary to make the selection process more competitive and to improve the quality of research. The Committee deliberated upon the various inputs given by the members of the Committee and after critical review of the existing qualifications vis-à-vis these inputs the Committee recommended the new eligibility qualifications for each ARS discipline as given in Annexure –III. b) For Direct Selection to Senior Scientific Positions 4.3 Besides recruitment of Scientists at the entry level, the ICAR also makes recruitment to senior scientific positions in the ICAR including Research Management Positions (RMPs) on direct selection basis through lateral entry. The ICAR notifies eligibility qualifications for selection to these posts. These qualifications have been revised on several occasions in the past depending upon the functional needs of 13 the organization. The eligibility qualifications for these posts were last revised in the year 2007. A further review of these eligibility qualifications is now necessitated after the UGC had revised the eligibility qualifications for teaching positions in the centrally funded universities and colleges following revision of scales of pay of teachers on the recommendations of the Sixth Central Pay Commission. 4.4 The Committee critically looked into the existing eligibility qualifications for all the scientific posts vis-à-vis those prescribed by the UGC for various teaching positions in universities and colleges and observed that there was a need to realign the existing eligibility qualifications for scientific posts with the eligibility qualifications prescribed for corresponding teaching positions in the Universities and Colleges. The Committee further observed that there was an urgent need to look into certain provisions in the current eligibility qualifications for various posts particularly in the case of Senior Scientists keeping in view the inputs received from the members and scientific community. 4.5 The Committee suggested modifications in the existing eligibility qualifications for senior scientific posts in the light of suggestions received in order to harmonize the same with UGC qualifications. A statement showing the existing eligibility qualifications for direct recruitments to all lateral entry positions, the revised UGC qualifications for comparable teaching positions and the proposed revised qualifications for senior scientific positions in ICAR is given in Annexure – IV. 4.6 The Committee felt that there was need for making changes in the process of Selection of RMPs. The Committee members were in favour of introducing a two-tier system of selection. The committee strongly feels that this new system could be tried for making selections to the posts of Deputy Directors General and Directors of IARI, IVRI, NDRI, CIFE, NAARM, National Institute of Abiotic-Stress Management (NIASM) and other equivalent positions. 14 5. REVISION OF SCORE CARD FOR DIRECT SELECTIONS 5.