 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3200 Cure of swelling due to injury in animals 3201 Treatment of hoof- and foot- joint swelling with rasodi in calfs 3202 Curing the body swelling by using vand plant leaves 3203 Cure of eye infection with wooden coal Decoction of 4 pieces of leaves of Acanthus leucostachysis (sam sikal) is mixed with the extract of tuber (4 small pieces) of Allium spp. (ban nohoru) and 4 leaves of Thunbergia spp. The medicine is applied directly on the affected region, twice daily, till recovery. Keywords: sam sikal, bon nohoru When animals suffer from hoof- and- foot joint swelling, the cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) collect 100-150 g leaves of rasodi (Vanda tessellata) plant and boil them in 500 ml water till solution remains about 300 ml. It is drenched with the help of bamboo pipe, twice a day up to 6 days. Keywords: joint swelling, foot swelling, rasodi Sometimes due to field operations animals suffer from swelling in body parts and feel severe pain. About 350 g green leaves of vand {Derris trifoliate) plant are collected and boiled in 1 litre water till decoction remains 500 ml. Lukewarm decoction is given to the suffering animals orally, thrice a day. This dose is continued up to 10-12 days at a gap of 1 day. Keywords: swelling, vand The cattle suffering from eye disease are treated with wooden coal. About 10 g dust of wooden coal is applied to the eyes of the ailing animal, which gives fast relief. The people of village Nitoie in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this practice. Keywords: eye infection, wooden coal, dust Shri Lalmuanzuala Chinzah, GIAN-NE, IIT, G-North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Sultan Singh, S/o Shri Mewa Ram, Nitoie, Bhamora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3204 Treatment of eye infection in animals with batasa (sugar product) 3205 Treatment of eye infection in animals with salt water 3206 Use of salt water for treatment of eye infection in animals 3208 Treatment for corneal opacity in goat with lai jabori 3209 Treatment for sore eye in cattle by using perumpillai and pepper To cure eye infection in animals, people of village Sundyaba in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using this ITK. About 50-100 batasa (made of sugar) and water are taken in mouth. After mixing, it is applied repeatedly spitting on the animal's eye twice daily.