 Correlation between AMF percentage colonization, glomalin with other soil quality related parameters and system cotton equivalent yield All contrasting tillage and weed management practices examined in current investigation, apparently demonstrated a positive correlation of GRSP with AMF-CP probably due to larger segment (approximately 80 %) of glomalin which is available on the spores and filaments [56] elucidating the positive correlation of GRSP with AMF-CP. The highly positive and significant correlation which existed between EE-GRSP and T-GRSP fractions in this present investigation aligns with the previous studies [57]. This is likely the result of EE-GRSP fraction being a component of recalcitrant GRSP and thus, a highly positive correlation is anticipated among the two [46]. A potent and positive correlation which was observed to exist between AMF-CP, SOC and other soil properties involved in carbon cycling in this current study, has also been reported in the previous studies [19,58]. Further, the experimental findings have identified GRSP as a crucial constituent of SOC [59,60]. System cotton equivalent yield did not significantly correlate with any of the soil pa­ rameters examined in the present study. This could be due to crop yield determinant factors such as moisture, sunlight etc. These results concur with Schneider et al. [61] who observed no significant correlation between soil biological related parameters with corn-soybean yields in a cultivated soil. Non-significant correlation between tomato yields and biological parameters was also reported by Yankit et al. [62] in the mid-hill zone of Himachal Pradesh of India attributed to variability in tomato yield over the 2-years experiment. K. Nthebere et al. Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 10 12.5. Principal component analysis and variable selection The role of SOC is known to alter and bolster many soil functions such as enzyme activities, glomalin, SMBC and soil aggregation etc. Fitly, SOC has been associated and correlated positively with enzyme activities, glomalin, mean weight diameter and SMBC among other soil parameters at 0.05–0.01 significance levels [63–65]. This could be ascribed to improved soil health owing to adoption of conservation agriculture practice. The observed selected variables in PC 1 (Table 6) suggest that soil quality can better be gauged through assessment of total glomalin related soil protein, SOC, SMBC, water aggregates size of 1–2 mm and β-galactosidase activity in conservation agricultural system under cotton-maize-Sesbania rostrata system in the semi-arid regions of Southern India. 13. Conclusion Conservation tillage (ZT(C) + SrR-ZT(M) + CR-ZT(Sr) + MS) agricultural management practice, adopted for three consecutive years in the 5th cropping cycle (maize) has significantly resulted in an increased arbuscular mycorrhizal colonization percentage (AMF-CP), turn-over rates of glomalin, other associated soil quality parameters viz.