 In biofortification, micronutrient- dense grains are produced by the crop itself through agricultural interventions. It is a food based approach to reduce the micronutrient malnutrition among the poor population. Need • It provides a long-term strategy of delivering more micronutrients, and is a powerful intervention tool to alleviate micronutrient malnourishment. • Micronutrient enriched staple plant foods can significantly improve the amount of these nutrients consumed by the target populations. • Biofortified crop varieties can be developed through conventional breeding programmes. • Once biofortified varieties are developed, there is no additional expense involved in getting higher nutrition. Advantages • It targets low-income people and rural communities, and remote areas like tribal regions. • Its recurrent costs are low, therefore biofortified varieties can be grown by farmers without extra cost and seeds can be shared. • It is sustainable as its varieties will continue to be grown and consumed year after year. Millets are nutri-cereals • Millets are highly nutritious compared to fine cereals like rice. Indian Farming 73 (01): 84-87; January 2023 Indian Farming 85 January 2023 • Millet grains contain high protein, fibre, micro and macronutrients and are gluten free. • Millet protein has well balanced amino acid profile and good source of methionine, cystine and lycine. • Pearl millet has the highest content of fat and micronutrients. • Sorghum is a cheap source of energy, protein, iron and zinc next only to bajra. • Finger millet is the richest source of calcium and potassium (400–420 mg/100 g). • Other small millets are good source of phosphorous and iron. • Phytochemicals in many of the millets act as antioxidants. Millets as agents for biofortification • The base level of micronutrients is high in millets providing advantage in further enrichment (Table 1). • They possess added advantage of other nutritional benefits like rich in antioxidants. • Millets are readily acceptable to poor people requiring nutritional intervention. • They are mostly grown in marginal lands and tribal regions where poor people live. • They are consumed in the form of various traditional foods like porridge, roti, sargatti, etc. • Millet is drought resistant crop having short- duration and less incidence of diseases and pests. • It requires less external inputs and hence, is most suitable for arid and semi-arid regions. • It is helpful in the treatment of diabetes, obesity, blood pressure, heart diseases, cancer, etc. • Millets act as immune boosters due to presence of vitamins and essential minerals. • Different value-added products can be prepared from millets to target urban population suffering from lifestyle diseases. Dhanshakti-first biofortified pearl millet variety Pearl millet has the highest content of iron in its grains. Large variability for both iron and zinc has been reported in pearl millet varieties and hybrids.