 yy The vaccination of horses against EHV1 infection is being practiced by Indian equine breeders for last several years with an imported inactivated vaccine. yy ICAR-National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar has developed inactivated equine herpesvirus1 (EHV1) vaccine for EHV1 infection. yy It is a formalin inactivated vaccine prepared from an indigenous EHV1 (strain Hisar-90-7), grown in Vero cells. yy This is an oil emulsion mannide monooleate (OEMM) EHV1 vaccine. yy The vaccine is intended for all equine species especially for pregnant mares. yy Dosage schedule: 2 ml intramuscular at 5 months of pregnancy followed by two boosters at 7th and 9th months of pregnancy. yy The technology is ready for transfer to drug and vaccines manufacturers, state veterinary biological production units, etc. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar-125001 (Haryana) E-mail: nrcequine@nic.in 1 26 Equine Influenza Vaccine (Updated) yy Equine influenza, commonly known as ‘Horse Flu’, is a viral disease of horses caused by Equine Influenza virus (EIV) subtype H3N8. yy The disease results in heavy morbidity leading to huge economic losses. yy An inactivated aluminum hydroxide adjuvant vaccine was developed by ICAR-NRCE, Hisar in 1987, which was further upgraded in 2016 by incorporating A/eq/Katra (Jammu)/06/08 (H3N8) EIV isolate prevalent in recent outbreaks. yy Vaccine is intended for immunization of horses, mules and donkeys. yy Dosage: 1 ml intramuscular. yy Vaccination schedule: First vaccination in animals above 6 months of age followed by a booster vaccine after 4-5 weeks and then repeated annually or after monitoring the titer. yy The technology is ready for transfer to the drug and vaccine manufacturers, State veterinary biological production units etc. yy This vaccine will help in controlling influenza in equines in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Research Centre on Equines, Hisar-125001 (Haryana) E-mail: nrcequine@nic.in 2 27 E Vaccine for Camel 28 Camelpox Vaccine (Live Attenuated; CMLV 1/97 Strain) yy Camelpox is a contagious and OIE notifiable viral disease, affecting specifically young camel calves caused by camelpox virus (CMLV), an orthropox virus of the family Poxviridae. yy The disease is endemic in Asia including India, Middle East and, Africa and characterized by febrile papulopustular eruptions over the body and mucous membrane with high morbidity and moderate mortality. yy The disease mostly affects young ones aged 2-3 years and is also zoonotic in nature. yy The disease causes significant economic loss by incurring high morbidity in adults and mortality in young calves. yy A live Vero cell attenuated vaccine has been developed by Mukteswar campus of ICAR-IVRI using an indigenous isolate (CMLV 1/97 strain). yy The recommended dose of the vaccine is 0.5 ml (containing a minimum of 3.0 log10 TCID50 vaccine virus) to be inoculated intra-dermally on the ventral aspect of the caudal fold.