 Identified by Institute Technology Identification Committee. Proposal for release and notification submitted to U.P. State Government in April 2022. Tomato Hybrid Kashi Tapas (VRNTH-19095) for high temperature: Suitable for very high day temperature of 38±2oC and night temperature of 32± 2oC. Semi-indeterminate plants. TSS 5.40 Brix & acidity 0.38%. Yield potential is 448 q/ha. Fruit weight is 45-40 g. Crop duration February to June under north Indian plains. Availability of fruits up to 1st week of June. Identified by Institute Technology Identification Committee. Proposal for release and notification submitted to U.P. State Government in April 2022. Source: ICAR-Annual Report 2022-23 January–February 2024 11 Swagata: A New High-Yielding Variety of Elephant Foot Yam Elephant foot yam [Amorphophallus paeoniifolius (Dennst.), syn. A. campanulatus (Roxb.) BL. ex Dence] is herbaceous, and one of the tropical perennial vegetables that originated in Southeast Asia. It is C3 in nature, vegetatively propagated and commercially cultivated for its underground modified stem or corm which has long been used as a local staple food in many countries. The corms are usually consumed after frying, boiling or baking and are rich in vitamin A phosphorus and calcium. The petioles and leaves are also eaten in India by local tribes as they too contain a high concentration of vitamin A. The corms are reported to have blood purifying properties and are used in medicines for the treatment of asthma, piles, dysentery and other abdominal disorders. Navsari Agricultural University started a crop improvement programme on elephant foot yam by collecting germplasm from local as well as from different parts of India and evaluated them to discover elite genotypes for the farmers of tribal regions and all over Gujarat. Following the breeding method of clonal selection, one elite genotype was developed and after the recommendation of 51st State Seed Sub-Committee, Gandhinagar, Gujarat it was released by the name of Swagata. Farmers of Gujarat prefer this variety specifically for higher productivity, disease resistance, excellent corm flesh colour and palatability. T UBER vegetables contribute a considerable share of the world’s food supply and are an important source of fodder and industrial products too, particularly in developing countries. They are potential functional food primarily providing staple carbohydrate sources, second to cereals and contain several bioactive constituents like phenolic compounds, saponins, bioactive proteins, glycoalkaloids, phytic acids and hydroxycoumarins. Tuber crops are bestowed with resilience to global warming and climate change, potential for better return under adverse soil and weather conditions, fit to diverse industrial applications and most of all have exceptionally high CO2 fixation capacity. Despite being a part of subsistence agriculture, they are also excellent cash crops for local and export markets.