 ‘protandrous’ whereas, dry and cold springs favours early female flowers maturation i.e., ‘protogynous’. There is scarcity of suitable pollinisers; however, Mohawk, Mahan and Stuart varieties can act as pollinisers. The pollination in pecan is anemophilous type which means larger spacing may reduce fruiting due to poor pollination. Hence, pollination is very important for higher production. Cultivars The quality and suitable cultivars for Indian Himalayas are Mahan, Busseron, Cheyenne, Desire, Caddo, Cape Fear, Forkert, Kiowa, Oconee, Houma, Wichita, Western, Tejas, Pawnee, Sioux, and Mohawk. These cultivars are being maintained by Indian Council of Agricultural Research- National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources, Regional Station, Shimla. Both cultivars protandrous and protogynous should be selected with 15% variety as pollinisers which are uniformly distributed in the orchard Indian Horticulture 14 for better production and profitability. For example, every fifth tree should be polliniser. Propagation The propagation of pecan can be done through seeds and vegetative (cuttings, grafting and budding) methods. Seedlings can be prepared bare root and in containers. Seeds are stratified in moist sand for 70-80 days at low temperature (7°C) to improve germination and seedling development. Bare root plants can be transplanted in the containers or may be directly planted in the field. From seeds, rootstocks are obtained for grafting. Nutrition management The pit size of 1 m × 1 m × 1 m is dug out and filled with mixture of 12 cm top soil and farmyard manure in 1:1 ratio, besides 400-500 g single superphosphate and 40-50 g chlorpyriphos are also added per pit. The root system of pecan tree has symbiosis with mycorrhizae that increases root exploration area and helps optimize N, P, K, Ca, Mg, Zn, and Cu absorption from soil leading to increased production. Zinc deficiency in pecan trees affects development of chloroplast, reduces nut weight, decreases fruit development, maturation and production. It has been reported that Zn foliar concentration below 50 mg per kg creates deficiency symptoms. Zinc and Mn can be applied in the form of foliar application. The farmyard manure of 20-25 kg and 450-500 g N: P: K mixture (2:1:1) per tree should be applied starting from pecan bearing stage during spring season. Training and pruning The training and pruning are paramount in pecan to have a proper shape and size. Pecan plants are generally trained on central leader keeping the lowest branch at least at 1 m height and thereafter spirally arranged one after another on central leader. Light pruning which is also majorly removal of dead, damaged and overcrowded branches is recommended in pecan. Irrigation Pecan tree requires proper irrigation to obtain good yield, nut weight, size, oil content, size and quality nuts. Irrigation can be provided by any means however; drip irrigation is better.