 In appendices, we illustrate, through cumulative distribution functions, that the insights derived from mean-variance analysis align with comparisons of cumu­ lative distribution functions. Another limitation arises in measuring risk solely as inter-temporal standard deviation, whereas farmers might be more concerned about downside risk, particularly below a specific yield level. Determining this target yield level as priori remains challenging when using experimental data. Hence, we relied on inter-temporal standard deviation. However, other studies have explored the mean-expected shortfall analysis to address this limitation (e.g., Sukcharoen and Leatham, 2016). We incorporated this approach and found similar results for portfolios with the highest return and lowest risk, albeit slight differences emerged for portfolios reflecting mild risk aversion. The final limitation pertains to the lack of identification regarding the sources of intertemporal variability. While we can pinpoint combi­ nations with outcomes considered risky or less risky, our analysis doesn’t explicitly identify the origins of this variability. A more detailed attribution analysis of risk, considering both climate and management variability, can enhance the understanding of the outcomes of risk- return trade-offs. We therefore do not consider the endogeneity of input use and influence of external risk factors directly. The outcome- based risk assessment approach we use allows us to only choose treat­ ments robust to risk without specifying the source of the risk. Future Fig. 5. The average profitability of winter season crop (represented by the dot) and their inter-temporal variation (95 % confidence interval limits, 1.96+/- standard error) during the 14-year long-term experiment among different tillage and cropping system combinations. CT: Conventional tillage, ZT: Zero tillage, PB: Bed Planting. Fig. 6. Rabi crops net return frontier (in INR ha−1) showing optimal land allocation to different tillage and cropping system combinations with specific targeted return, standard deviation of return, ordered by risk aversion profile. Note: The scenarios are hypothetical for all possible combinations of risk averse and risk neutral decision makers. Please refer caption of Figs. 3 and 4. H.S. Nayak et al. European Journal of Agronomy 162 (2025) 127436 7 analyses using the moments approach (e.g., Antle, 2010) could enable investigations into the specific sources contributing to the observed risk dynamics. 5. Conclusion Maize based diversified systems under conservation agriculture have emerged as promising climate-adaptive alternatives to the conventional rice-wheat cropping systems prevalent in north-western India. While previous analyses of long-term experiments in this region have pre­ dominantly focused on yield gains, profitability, and environmental sustainability; the risk considerations have been largely overlooked.