 The assessment of stocks of different fish species continuously has helped in setting up maximum sustainable yields in both the coasts and also drawing required policy advocacies for different management measures like the closed season, mesh size regulations, etc. Such measures have helped in the effective recruitment of several species and sustaining fisheries of the country over the years thereby helping the coastal fishers to manage and improve their livelihood. The drying of low-valued fishes has been a common practice in the coastal areas, especially when there is a glut in fish catch. The conventional drying method followed in most parts of the country is exposing fish with or without salting under the sun by spreading over the sand. As such practice often causes risks of heavy contamination, several fishers’-friendly practices Local Self-Reliance in Aquaculture and Fisheries: Gandhian Models 58 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR of sun-drying viz., solar tent drying or drying on platforms/rack is advocated to reduce the contamination. ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT) has developed solar fish driers of varied capacity ranging 10-1000 kg with alternate back up systems viz., LPG back- up heating system. Kiln driers, cabinet or tray driers, rotary driers, drum driers and osmotic driers are some other important driers used for fish drying. Considering the increasing demand among the consumers for ready-to-cook, ready-to-eat, fish-based extruded products and also conventional value-added products like pickle and smoked fish, ICAR-CIFT has developed several such technologies which are being disseminated through different programmes including the Agri-Bussiness Incubation (ABI) system operational at the institute and several small-scale enterprises have come up in recent years. The by-catch of shrimp trawlers contributes a large share of marine fish landings and these low-priced miscellaneous fishes are either discarded in the sea or converted to fishmeal or dried. As in tropics, about 80% of the catch is contributed by small fishes, generally, they do not fetch a good price and are not subjected to pre-process handling techniques like chilling and packaging. Therefore, developing micro-enterprises on the development of various byproducts from these low-valued by-catches or fish processing waste holds great promise in day to come, not only for the effective resource utilization but for elevating economic standards of the fishers in the coastal areas. 3. Lessons Learned and Path Ahead With regard to agriculture practice, Gandhiji believed in the conservative utilization of natural resources. According to his concept, a farmer should have that much land which he and his family members could manage and cultivate to grow crops and get a complete and reliable means of livelihood, support cattle from its products as well as enough to retain biodiversity and capacity to rejuvenate itself.