 Designing and development of Gender Sensitive Agri- Nutri (GSAN) farming system model was undertaken and it could be observed that most of the problems were related to state departments, hence, it is suggested that necessary policy measures may be taken up by the government to address the farm women’s problems and issues. A gender- sensitive model for doubling farmers’ income was evolved by addressing gender concerns and technological gap. A web based dynamic database was developed for generating data tables related to state-wise and district- wise gender work participation in agriculture. Female agriculture work participation (as percent of population) was calculated for all the 640 districts and thematic maps were generated using QGIS3.10. Thematic map for female agriculture work participation was overlaid with 15 agro- climatic regions (ACR) for analysing the spatial distribution of female agricultural workers across different ACR. Under the extramural research project on development of gender sensitive entrepreneurship model, three major sectors, viz. horticulture, dairy and farm implements for establishing institute-industry-women farmers’ linkage were identified and a survey of participating 100 farm women from each sectors was conducted on their role performance, needs, perceptions to understand the women and gender issues in selected agro-based industries. Livelihood and socio-economic policy for food and nutritional security: With an aim to develop gender sensitive model for doubling farmers’ income, technological and developmental gaps were analysed by experts and logical technological modules were designed. The need based modules were demonstrated through training, demonstrations, capacity building programmes, input support and advisory services, promoting high yielding varieties and hybrids through 16 programmes covering 125 farm families. Nutritional interventions for enhancing the protein consumption of farm families of Semla village of Umarkote Block, Nabrangapur, an aspirational district was made by introducing the cultivation of high yielding variety of black gram PU 31 to capitalize on the residue moisture available after paddy cultivation as paira cropping. The intervention had a positive impact on the Chronic Energy Deficiency where it showed a decrease to the tune of 4.53% and 6.59% in women and men, respectively. To improve women’s health condition involved in household chores, terafil water filter and smokeless chulhas were also distributed. To understand the impact of establishment of milk producers’ cooperative, Khalagaon Milk Producer Co- operative Society (MPCS) was selected and its activities were analyzed and mapped. The Khalagaon MPCS has a total of 161 members of which only 10 were female. The society generated revenue of ` 62.76 lakh for its members by collecting 2.37 lakh litres of milk (2018–19). On an average, the members earned ` 5,082/month. The average milk price was ` 26.48/litre.