 This indicates that thickness of the jute-based sound absorber could be reduced by 12.5 mm. higher frequencies. Thus, the entire frequency range is insulated by the two mechanisms, viz. Absorption and transmission loss. Specially conceptualized and designed fiber holders have been fabricated to make special type sound insulation products that can act both as effective absorber and barrier depending on the position of its use. Biodegradable electrospun fibre mat for use in packaging of fresh perishable horticultural produce: Multi-phase electrospinning setup was fabricated for production of electrospun nano fibre mat. The machine has multi-axial arrangements with adjustable nozzle geometry that can orient the needle to desired angle; automated linear motion and multiple parallel needles. The machine has the advantage of forming multi-layer fibre and produce mat with even surface. The parameters for e l e c t r o s p i n n i n g process were optimized. The optimized parameters were 25 kV voltage, 15 cm distance, 0.04 ml/min flow rate and 15 min duration. Volatile gas profile of Alphonso mango during the ripening stage was mapped by non- destructive method. Analysis revealed that the major gases being produced from the mango fruit during ripening were 3-methyl furan, α- pinene, α-ocimene, P-mentha-1,4-diene, tetramethyl cyclohexadiene, dimethyl octatriene, ethyl octanoate, ethyl-trans-4-decenoate, ethyl decanoate and caryophyllene. Frequency dependent sound absorption coefficients of jute felts, glass wool and rock wool of different thicknesses Seventeen types of jute and allied natural fibers were tested for acoustic properties and compared with the commercial counterparts keeping same densities (g/cc). Jute and some allied fibers showed comparable absorption performance with glass wool and rock wool. Natural fiber extracted from the bast of “Abelmoschus Esculentus”, popularly known as “Okra” fiber showed the best noise absorbing (throughout NAC > 0.6) trend. Roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa) fiber showed value similar to jute. It is cheaper than jute fiber. A database of acoustic performances of all the commercially available jute based woven clothes has been prepared. Entire range of commercially available jute woven cloths was tested for the noise absorption property. No conventional woven cloth shows any notable absorption property in the range of audible frequencies. Using jute nonwoven, thickness of absorbers can be reduced significantly; performance of 90 mm conventional material can be achieved by 40 mm thickness only. The acoustic property evaluations of these materials are also in line with the results obtained in “Porometry”. As the minimum and mean pore sizes reduce, the absorbing property of felts increases significantly. Jute filled perforated rigid panel absorber can provide transmission loss as well as sound absorption over the complete frequency range.