 To incorporate the seasonal characteristics of crop cultivation into our district-level emission estimates, we followed the five-season structure as used by GoI crop statistics, and emission estimates are separated for these five seasons: Kharif, Rabi, Summer, Autumn and Winter. Doing so minimizes the uncertainties in seasonal emission es­ timates owing to the misrepresentation of seasons at the district level. Table S1 gives a state-wise summary of the crops cultivated during each of the five seasons. Detailed district-wise seasonal inventories from 2011 to 2020 were prepared for the seven selected crops for further analysis. We have used district-wise crop production and area under cultivation to assess the amount of residue production and ABA associated with each crop. Since our extracted ABA is not crop-specific, we calculated the fraction of area under cultivation for each crop using census statistics to estimate the crop-wise contribution of total ABA. 3.2. ABA extraction from MODIS BA To extract ABA from existing global-BA products, we adopted the methodology developed by Deshpande et al. (2022b). The cloud computing platform of Google Earth Engine is used for the analysis (Gorelick et al., 2017). Fig. S1 details the process of ABA extraction over Punjab, depicted as a representative state. We used the MCD64A1 version 6 Global BA data product over the study period (Fig. S1a). The MCD64A1 Global BA product provides monthly BA at 500 m resolution and is derived from coupling MODIS surface reflectance imagery (500 m) with MODIS active fire observations (1 km) (Giglio et al., 2018; Roteta et al., 2019). To extract ABA from the global BA product, we applied two masks. First, we used the Terra and Aqua combined MODIS Land Cover Type (MCD12Q1) Version 6.1 data product to create a mask for all non-cropland classes and applied this to the MCD64A1 BA product annually (Fig. S1b). To ensure that each pixel classified as agriculture in the MODIS Land Cover Type data product was in fact agriculture, we applied a second mask. Specifically, we analyzed Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) phenologies for all pixels classified as agriculture and kept only those pixels that showed a double hump-shaped phenology across the two main cultivation sea­ sons, Kharif and Rabi (Fig. S1c). This is because most agricultural fields in India grow crops during the two main growing seasons, and CRB typically only occurs in fields that are double-cropped (or more). Also, this filtering allowed us to avoid the interference from non-cropland fires that were not filtered in the first masking. Previous studies have shown that double cropping in India can be accurately derived using NDVI phenologies (Jain et al., 2013). We created these phenologies using NDVI (500 m) from the MOD13A1.061 Terra and MYD13A1.061 Aqua Vegetation Indices products, available at 16-day intervals.