5 crore advisories in the form of SMS has also been sent to the registered farmers by scientists of KVK using KisanSarathi platform. Monthly distribution (September 2022 to October 2023) of the country wide farmers’ registration statistics with KisanSarathi and call received statistics from the farmers are shown by bar diagram. Further, to enhance the services of KisanSarathi, a new Interactive Voice Response System (IVRS), in 13 languages (11 major regional languages along with english and hindi), has ICAR DARPAN Dashboard State wise numbers of the registered farmers State-wise number of registered farmers, August 2023 been implemented during the reporting period. Again, to support both ways multimedia exchange a Kisan- Sarathi Mobile App for Farmers (KS-App/F) has been made available to the farming community. KS-App/F in 13 (11+2) languages is available with UMANG platform of MeitY, Government of India at Google play store and supports following activities, viz. Registration of farmers; Advisory notification; Ask and track Query; Call from app etc. (https://play.google.com/store/apps/ details?id=in.gov.umang.negd.g2c&pli=1) Electronic-Human Resource Management System (e-HRMS 2.0): e-HRMS 2.0 is an online portal to provide end to end HR services. It is currently under ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 163 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY implementation in various Ministries/Department/ Organization (MDOs). Various services such as deputation, leave/tour personalized prompts, real-time application status i-GOT trainings, reimbursements, profile update, single sign on training, vigilance, APAR/ IPR and other pay related issues and common services etc. can be availed in an easy, transparent and paperless manner by the employees. The pre-requisite for availing services at e-HRMS 2.0 is that the employee profile needs to be updated by the employee and approved by the respective nodal officer nominated by director of the institute. This system can be accessed online (https://e-hrms.gov.in) by using NIC email credentials through Parichay platform. The leave module of e-HRMS 2.0 has been made operational for the employees of ICAR Headquarters in 2023. Onboarding of ICAR institutes on e-HRMS 2.0 is under process. eSupport System for accessing various eGov applications in ICAR: ICAR-Data Centre, Advanced Supercomputing facility for Omics Knowledge in Agriculture (ASHOKA) and ICAR-Disaster Recovery Centre (ICAR-DRC) are established to provide support in accessing unified communication system, email services, web applications/websites hosting, e-Office, ICAR-ERP, Agricultural Research Management System, Foreign Visit Management System, Personnel Management System, eHRMS, SPARROW, Super Computing facility, and many more digital applications and platforms.