 Punjab burns 80% of crop wastes produced. This huge quantity of wastes can be converted into nutrient rich compost for sustainable land restoration practices. Estimation showed that 30-35% of applied N & P and 70-80% for K remained in the residues of crops. Such nutrient rich crop residues are required to be converted into compost. Importance of organic matter The term “organic matter” is used to describe the dead and decomposing remains of living things, such as plant debris, animal remains, and manure. These are crucial part of the soil, providing food for soil living creatures; for plants in particular, it is a major source of nitrogen. Without it, soil would be just sterile rock dust. Organic matter is continually being broken down by soil creatures and by natural oxidation. In nature, it is replenished in the natural cycles of life and death. Humus is the final product in the breakdown of organic matter. It acts as a valuable reservoir of water and plant nutrients, and helps soil structure. March–April 2023 91 Viable solution ICAR-CISH, Lucknow has developed model for crop and kitchen wastes management. These crop residues can be utilized in compost production with any one of following methods. Biodynamic compost: Biodynamic compost is an effective method of composting and is an immediate source of nutrient for crops. Biodynamic compost heap can be prepared by using green (nitrogenous material) and dry leaves (carbonaceous material). The enriched compost is ready in 75-100 days in normal period depending upon the prevailing temperature and moisture. Vermicompost: Organic and crop wastes can be converted into compost along with dung with use of earthworms. Earthworms are easily available in every part of country for production of compost. Vermi-compost production Mulching of organic wastes in capsicum and lettuce at rooftop Rotavator NADEP compost Solid waste management (Kitchen waste) for ensuring nutritional security World generates 2.01 billion tonnes of municipal solid waste annually and India contributes to 1.6 million metric tonnes daily. By 2050, 1750 acres land will be required for dumping of this municipal waste. Delhi, Mumbai, Chennai, Hyderabad and Kolkata are top five cities which generate maximum wastes in India. Dumping and burning of municipal organic wastes at the outskirt of any city, generate CO2, N2O, polycyclic hydrocarbons and mercury which pollute air, water and cause several respiratory problems to animals and human beings. Viable solutions Rooftop/Terrace gardening: Kitchen and other bio-wastes generated in every household can be used for growing vegetables, few selected herbs, ornamental plants including few fruits at the roof top and terrace without agrochemicals. For this, dry and wet bio-wastes which are available in routine should be utilized. Dry waste may include dry leaves, lawn clippings, saw dust, coconut husk, cardboard pieces, etc. and wet includes vegetable and fruits peels and other bio-materials.