 Schemes Actual 2017–2018 Budget 2018–2019 Revised 2018–2019 Budget 2019–2020 Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total Revenue Capital Total DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 166 APPENDICES 1. Secretariat—The provision is for the expenditure on salary of DARE staff. 2. Agricultural Extension- The provision is for the activities to reach out to the farmers at grass root level through Krishi Vigyan Kendras to disseminate and refine frontline agricultural technologies. It includes training of farmers and extension personnel on local technologies, distribution of seed and planting materials and testing of soil and water samples. 3. Agricultural Engineering—The provision is for research, development and refinement of farm equipment, process and value addition protocols. 4. Natural Resource Management Institutes including Agro-Forestry Research—The provision is for research to address low farm productivity and profitability, land degradation, low water productivity, soil health deterioration and low nutrient use efficiency, deterioration in ecosystem services, abiotic stresses, etc. It is necessary to encounter deteriorating natural resource base for long term sustainability. 5. Climate Resilient Agriculture Initiative—The provision is to conduct strategic research and technology demonstration to enhance resilience of Indian agriculture to climate change and climate vulnerability. The research on adaptation and mitigation covers crops, livestock, fisheries and natural resource management. 6. Crop Science—Research provision is to develop trait-specific high yielding field crop varieties/hybrids having tolerance to pest and diseases, besides various abiotic stresses. The quality attributes are also given due importance with no yield penalty. The All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRPs)/Network Research Projects with active collaboration with State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) are engaged in the development of improved crop varieties/ hybrids, cost-effective production and environment-friendly protection technologies in different agro-climatic regions. 7. Horticultural Science—The provision is to address thrust areas of enrichment of horticultural genetic resources, development of new cultivation with resistance mechanism to biotic and abiotic stresses, appropriate production technology and health management system of horticultural and vegetable crops. 8. National Agricultural Science Fund—Supports basic and strategic research in agriculture to address the prioritized research problems. 9. Animal Sciences—The provision is to develop new technologies to support production enhancement, profitability, competitiveness and sustainability of livestock and poultry sector for food and nutritional security. It will facilitate need based priority research in livestock and poultry sector in on-going and new emerging areas to support productivity increase, thereby reducing the gap between potential and actual yield. 10.