 There will be a fast recovery from tetanus. If the animal eats whole leaves, it may also be fed. Keywords: frenetic, protruding eye, maize, fed About 2 kg kasuda of kliakra are crushed and 2 litres water is added to it. This solution is strained after 2 hr. About 250 nil of this lipuid is^fiiven to the cattle for 4 days, twice a day. About 20% of the population of the village is using this technique to get rid of perspiration in cattle. Keywords: kasuda of khakra, perspiration About 100 g powdered seeds of jabrang (Xanthophyllum spp.), 50 g ash of Musa paradisiaca and mustard oil are mixed together to make a paste which is orally given twice daily for 3 days. Keywords: jabrang, mustard About 25 g dubari bon (Cynodon dactyion) is crushed and made in to a paste with 25 g sugar, which is administrated orally one dose daily for 3 days. This should be administered annually for prevention against cowpox Keywords: dubari bon, cowpox Shri Kalubhai Patel, Nani Sarsan, Santrampur, Dahod (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Ulashyabhai Varyabhai Pawar, Vadpada Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3484 Cure of glossitis in animals 3485 Use of Imperata cylinderica Beauv roots as anthelminlic for animals In this ITK sindoor (1 pinch), khar (1 pinch), one small bulb of bon nohoru (Allium vineale), 3 pieces of pan leaves (Piper betel) and 4 pieces of ginger (Zingiber officinalis) are mixed togther and ground to make a paste. This paste is given orally at every 3 hr interval in a day. Keywords: sindoor, khar, bon nohoru, pan leaves The roots of Imperata cylinderica Beauv are crushed, its juice extract is taken out and is given orally to the affected animal in 10-15 ml dose once daily, for 2-3 days. This practice is followed by Nepali community who developed this practice with their own efforts. Keywords: Imperata cylinderica Beauv Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati Kamrup, (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Nepali community. North Guwahati (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3486 Treatment for anuria in animals by using roots of Achyranthes aspera 3487 Treatment to cure excessive salivation in animals by use of leaves of Andrographis alata In this practice, 50 g roots of Achyranthes aspera are mixed with 500 g jaggery. This mixture is crushed to make a paste. The prepared mixture is fed to the ailing animal.