 Therefore, the development of effective credit systems for small and medium-sized agricultural operations are crucial, with the need for targeted long- term and medium-term loans and guarantees to cover risks associated with agricultural activities. On the other hand, financial institutions perceive high credit risk in rural and agricultural markets due to vulnerability to climatic shocks and commodity price volatility (Liu et al., 2024). This perception leads to a disconnection between the financial system and the agricultural sector, hindering access to agri­ cultural finance. Additionally, the major psychological barriers that farmers face when accessing credit include information asymmetry, risk aversion, and financial illiteracy. These barriers impact farmers' ability to access credit by creating mutual distrust between lending institutions and borrowers (Khan et al., 2024), leading to a lack of definitive descriptive information about either party. Moreover, risk aversion and financial illiteracy among borrowers affect credit-rationing of smallholder agricultural households (Balana et al., 2022; Boucher et al., 2008). The impact of these psychological barriers on farmers' decision-making in seeking credit is evident in the negative association between constraints to credit and educational attainments of the farmers, family members, and high off-farming income (Dey & Singh, 2023). These demand-side factors are as significant as supply-side constraints in limiting credit access. Therefore, re-orienting agricultural credit systems through govern­ ment policies towards more decoupled forms of support is essential to improve economic efficiency and environmental performance. Thus, this study explores the disconnect between policy frameworks and real- world application. It also highlights the need for transformative agri­ cultural credit policies and provide inferences to policymakers to un­ dertake further improvised policy implementation after considering the views from all the stakeholders. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Study design This study adopted qualitative research design using the focus group discussion (FGDs) method to collect data. This method facilitates dis­ cussions to elicit views and lay theories about the individual topic, allowing participants to disclose their thoughts, feelings, perceptions and their experience about a particular issue with the least bias possible (Lauri, 2019). FGDs allow for in-depth exploration of social issues and interactions among group members, providing accounts that are more akin to regular conversation than those obtained through individual interviews. A guide is prepared that outlines the topics and questions to be discussed during the FGD.