3 of Civil Accounts Manual, Principal Accounts Office in New Delhi functions under a Principal Accounts Officer who is responsible for : - a) Consolidation of the accounts of the Ministry/Department in the manner prescribed by CGA; b) Preparation of Annual Appropriation Accounts of the Demands for Grants controlled by the Ministry/Department, submission of Statement of Central Transactions and material for the Finance Account of the Union Government(Civil) to the Controller General of Accounts; c) Payment of loans and grants to State Government through Reserve Bank of India, and wherever this office has a drawing account payment there from to Union Territory Government/ Administrations; d) Preparation of manuals keeping in view the objective of management accounting system if any, and for rendition of technical advice to Pay and Accounts Offices, maintaining necessary liaison with CGA‘s Office and to effect overall coordination and control in accounting matters; e) Maintaining Appropriation Audit Registers for the Ministry/ Department as a whole to watch the progress of expenditure under the various Grants operated on by the Ministry/Department; Principal Accounts Office/Officer also performs all administrative and coordinating function of the accounting organization and renders necessary financial, technical, accounting advice to department as well as to local and outstation Pay & Accounts offices. 7. As per provisions contained in Civil Accounts Manual, Pay & Accounts offices make payments pertaining to respective Ministries/ Departments and in certain cases payments will be made by the Departmental Drawing and Disbursing Officers (CDDOs) authorized to draw funds, by means of cheques drawn on the offices/branches of accredited bank that may be authorized for handling the receipts and payments of the Ministry/Department. These payments will be accounted 25 for in separate scrolls to be rendered to the Pay and Accounts Offices of Ministry/Department concerned. Each Pay and Accounts Office or Drawing and Disbursing Officer authorized to make payments by cheques, will draw only on the particular branch/branches of the accredited bank with which the Pay and Accounts Office or the Drawing and Disbursing Office as the case may be, is placed in account. All receipts of the Ministry/Department are also be finally accounted for in the books of the Pay and Accounts Office. The Pay and Accounts office is the basic Unit of Departmentalized Accounting Organization. Its main function include:- i. Pre-check and payment of all bills, including those of loans and grants-in-aid, submitted by Non-Cheque Drawing DDOs. ii. Accurate and timely payments in conformity with prescribed rules and regulations. iii. Timely realization of receipts. iv. Issue of quarterly letter of credit to Cheque Drawing DDOs and post check of their Vouchers/bills. v.