 The harvested vermicompost should have minimum 40% moisture. Vermicomposting technology from locally available manure and biomass Indian Farming 30 May 2023 Vermicompost can be produced in any place with shade, high humidity and cool. It is rich in beneficial micro flora like N-fixer, P-solubilizers, cellulose decomposing micro- flora. It contains valuable vitamins, enzymes and hormones like auxins, gibberellins. Vermiwash For its preparation, atleast 60% moisture should be maintained throughout the vermicomposting. The resulting liquid is used as a fertilizer or sprayed on the plants (Vermiwash). Vermiwash at 5–10% dilution inhibits the mycelial growth of pathogenic fungi. Diluted 0.5 litre of vermiwash + 0.5 litres of cow urine in 10 litres of water is used as foliar spray. Panchagavya and dasagavya The preparation of panchgavya comprises of majorly 5 constituents obtained from cow source. The three direct constituents are cow dung, urine, and milk; the two derived products are curd and ghee. Mixed them thoroughly both in morning and evening and kept for 3 days. After 3 days, mixed cow urine and water, and kept for 15 days with regular mixing both in morning and evening. After 15 days of mixing, mixed tender coconut water, jaggery and well riped poovan banana, and the panchagavya will be ready after 30 days. The container should be kept open under shade. The content is to be stirred twice a day both in morning and evening. Approx 3% solution was found to be most effective compared to the higher and lower concentrations investigated. Dasagavya is made from 10 products. The first five are cow dung, cow urine, cow milk, curd, and ghee. The remaining five are plant extracts from commonly available weed plants. Crop residue Average 25% N and P, 50% S and 75% K is retained in cereal residues making them valuable nutrient sources. Around 2–4 mg N could be fixed by microorganism per gram of straw added in soil. Jeevamrutham/jivamrita/jeevamrit Jeevamrutham is prepared by mixing 250 litre water, 10 kg of cow dung, 10 litre of cow urine, 1–2 kg jaggery, 2 kg of pigeonpea flour and hand full of undisturbed soil collected from farm. All these are put in drum, mixed thoroughly and kept in shade for 7–9 days. For one acre land, 200 litres of Jeevamrit is sufficient. Apply twice a month with irrigation water or as 10% foliar spray. It provides an environment to beneficial microbes. Application of Jeevamrutham to soil improves the soil considerably. It also encourages microbial activity in the soil. Jeevamrit is used as a preventive measure against fungal and bacterial diseases. Ghanjeevamrit It is prepared by mixing 100 kg of indigenous cow dung (air dried for 4–5 days), 1 kg of jaggery, 1 kg pulse flour, 3 litres of indigenous cow urine and 250 g of soil from undisturbed bunds/forest. It is prepared within 10 days. Prior to sowing, Ghanjeevamrit is applied @250 kg/ha as per recommended dose. It is best until 6 months when stored in cool and dry place.