 Approximately 100 g of castor oil is applied on exposed cut surface of the horn. A mixture of 50g of kalijiri (Vernonia anthelmintica) and 50 g of urea fertilizer is applied over it and bandaged. Healing occurs after a week (Mahesana, Gujarat). Desai (1994b) 167 Treatment against blocking of urinary tract Cows and buffaloes, especially bullocks, suffer from stones in urinary bladder. Crush the green bark of jamun tree (S. cumini) and give the extract to the animal other in the morning and once in the evening for three days. This gives relief to the animal (Junagadh, Gujarat). Savaliya (1997b) 168 Treatment of diarrhoea by Kangasi caesalpinia bonducella About four seeds of kangasi (Caesalpinia bonducella) are powdered and mixed with one cup water. This decoction is given to affected animal three to four times a day. For a young animal, the dose is reduced to half. This treatment is continued for four to six days. About 20% of people in villages use this method. The kangasi plant grows to a height of three or four metres. It bears tiny thorns on stem and twigs. Ad (1995) 212 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference Its leaves are arranged in bunches of eight or 10. The seeds are also covered by a shell like structure with tiny thorns. It grows abundantly on hedges in middle Gujarat (Panchmahal, Gujarat). 169 Treatment of arthritis Cattle suffering from arthritis experience great difficulty in walking. Their joints become stiff and they cannot be used for ploughing or drawing loads. Internal bark of Moringa pterygosperma and sangheda trees are used to relieve the affected cattle of pain. One kg of the internal bark of this tree is mixed with four litres of water and the mixture is boiled till it is reduced to half its original volume. Then it is removed from the fire, cooled and rubbed on the joints of the cattle. The massage should be continued at intervals till the pain disappears (Junagadh, Gujarat). Radadia (1998) 170 Treatment of mino by mixture of ash and jaggery The ash from burning 500 g newsprint is mixed with 1 kg of jaggery and is rubbed for 20 min on the entire inner side of the animal’s jaw. This is repeated after 2 hr and relief can be expected within 4-5 applications (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Chauhan (1992) 171 Treatment of anorexia in camels If a camel has undergone hard labour, its intestines and liver are liable to swell and it will not consume its regular grass feed. After hard labour the camel drinks more water, breathes heavily, sits down constantly and slowly stops taking its regular meals. About 100 g each of alum and kalijeeri (Vernonia anthelmintica) and one kg of jaggery are added to two litres of water and boiled. The boiled brew is allowed to cool down and given in the morning for three days. The camel soon starts taking its regular food. The camel breeders used this method twice in the last five years.