 Finally, pomegranate cultivation in India occurs in many states: Maharashtra, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, and Gujarat. Maharashtra is India’s largest producer of pomegranate. Solapur and Nasik districts in Maharashtra cultivate 65–70 percent of the total commercial production in India. The 2016 pomegranate survey was conducted in Solapur, which produces almost 20 percent of the total pomegranate production of Maharashtra. Farmers were selected randomly from 18 villages in the Solapur district’s Pandharpur, Malshiras, and Sangola blocks. The survey data on all commodities mentioned above also collected farm-level data on farm attributes (farm size, asset ownership) and household and farmer attributes, cropping patterns, economics of cultivation, marketing channels, information on distances to key infrastructures, risk attitudes, and non-farm income sources. The survey’s composition is provided in Table 1. Summary statistics on key household characteristics of the sample farmers are presented in Table 2, differentiating between the crops. An overwhelming majority of surveyed households are male-headed,8 with the average farmer being 46 years old and having nine years of education and 21 years of farming experience. Pomegranate and baby-corn producers use all three marketing outlets. None of the sampled onion and okra producers sells their products through private traders (locally or outside the district). Almost all farmers purchase crop insurance across all crops. However, access to credit seems low, especially for baby-corn producers, with only 6 percent reporting having access to credit. Table 2 also reports the sources of information producers use. Mishra et al. (2018) note that high-value crops in India are capital- and information-intensive. The literature shows that more-informed farmers obtain better prices and higher incomes than less-informed farmers (Davis et al., 2012; Birthal, Roy, and Negi, 2015; Negi et al., 2018). The survey respondents reported the average gross production and crop price received during the survey reference period (2016). Table 3 reports summary statistics of producers’ prices (Rs/Kg) and gross quantities of output (Kg) grouped by commodities and marketing channels. Columns 3–5 reveal the average prices received and output produced under pre-harvest contractors, Agricultural Produce Market Committee mandis, and private traders. Except for pomegranate, the average price farmers received per kilogram was consistently lower when farmers used pre-harvest contractors as their choice of market channel than when selling to APMC mandis or private tradres. Higher prices for pomegran­ ates across all market channels may be due to the fruit being used for export purposes (Dastagiri et al., 2013) .9 In our sample, okra and onions are sold only via pre-harvest contractors and APMC mandi outlets.