 160 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Grapes: yy Management of April pruning in grape orchard should be done as per availability of water. During rest period, provide only need based irrigation to protect the existing leaves from drying, and also contribute towards increasing the reserves of the vines through photosynthetic activity. Care should be taken to reduce/stop the water in case new growth is observed on the shoot. If rainfall exceeds 2.5 mm, no irrigation should be applied especially during rest period. Papaya: yy Drenching of copper oxychloride 2gm/litre or Bavistin 1gm/litre of water to carry out if newly emerged papaya seedlings affected by root rot /Pythium fungal disease. Cashew: yy Harvest the matured cashew nuts and sundry for 7 to 8 days to bring down moisture content and then store in dry places. Prepare different processed products from cashew apple as recommended by Dr. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli. Plantation crops: yy To save the crop from increase in temperature and decrease in humidity in Konkan region, provide irrigation to coconut, areca nut and sapota orchards at 5-6 days interval, also use straw mulch to reduce evaporation losses. Vegetables: yy Chilli: To avoid leaf curl infestation in chilli transplanting of seedlings should be done before 30th June. Pest resistant or tolerant varieties like like Pusa Jwala or Pusa Jyoti should be used for planting. yy Tomato: Triple disease resistant varieties of tomato like Arka Rakshak or Arka Samrat should be used for higher yield. 161 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Okra: For management of fruit borer in okra take a spray of 5 % NSKE or Chlorantraniliprole 18.5 % SC @ 2.5 ml or Cypermethrin 10 % EC @ 15 ml or Quinalphos 25 % EC @ 20 ml per 10 liter of water. Harvesting of mature vegetables should be done early in the morning. Irrigation management should be done early in the morning, at evening or during night time in vegetable crops as per availability and requirement of crop. Management practices should be followed to protect the vegetable crops from hot air. yy Brinjal: If incidence of shoot and fruit borer observed in Brinjal, collect and destroy caterpillar or Spray Neemark 4 % or Cypermethrin 25% EC 5 ml or Chlorpyriphos 20 EC 20 ml OR Deltamethrin 1 % or Traizophos 20 ml per 10 litres of water. yy Turmeric: Harvesting, boiling, drying, polishing operations are being carried out in turmeric crop. To save the crop from unseasonal rains or hailstorm, crop should not be stored in open place. The harvested turmeric crop should be covered by plastic paper so that it should not be damaged by rains. Livestock: yy To protect the animals from high temperature, apply white paint to the roof of shade. Apply mulching on the roof of shade with the help of dry grass and trash of sugarcane which reduces the temperature in shade. If water is spry on mulches or use of foggers will cool down the temperature of shade.