 Analysis Our results are presented in the form of cost–consequence analysis, by tabulating disaggregated costs and outcomes of the interventions compared with the control arm. We selected a program perspective as the base case to reflect the potential budget impact of adopting the intervention. The societal perspective presents the full costs of implementing the interventions. All costs, including unit costs obtained from published studies, were adjusted for inflation using the Indian Consumer Price Index (38) and converted to 2019 US$, using the exchange rate of 70.42 (39) for the costs to Indian partners (in Indian Rupees), and 0.78 (39) for costs to the UK partners (in British Pounds Sterling, GBP). In addition, costs were discounted at 3% per y, as recommended by WHO- CHOICE (World Health Organization CHOosing Interventions that are Cost-Effective) (40) and the Gates/iDSI Reference Case for Economic Evaluation (41). Our study follows the Consolidated Health Economic Evaluation Reporting Standards (CHEERS) (42). We calculated total costs and mean annual costs of the interventions. Mean annual costs enable comparisons with other interventions that run for different durations. Mean annual costs were calculated as the sum of startup and implementation costs, divided by 41 mo (the costing time horizon), and multiplied by 12, so they divide startup costs equally across each year. We decomposed the total costs of the interventions and presented these as a share of line-item (i.e., staff, materials, capital, other), intervention component (i.e., NSA videos, nutrition-specific videos, PLA, quality assurance, coordination, frontline worker training), and implementation phase (i.e., startup and implementation). To estimate the cost-efficiency of the interventions, we calculated the total or annual costs of each intervention per primary intervention participant. We also estimated cost per total point of contact (sum of group attendees and total home visits). We also estimated cost per unit increase in maternal and child dietary diversity scores (i.e., 2 statistically significant primary and secondary outcomes) for each intervention arm, compared with the control arm. They were calculated as mean increase in outcome divided by cost per primary intervention participant. We conducted a number of univariate sensitivity analyses that vary 1 parameter at a time, and scenarios for potential intervention costs at scale. In sensitivity analysis, we examined the impact of 2 uncertain assumptions: we altered the allocation rule for dividing the costs of the nutrition-specific component between the AGRI-NUT and AGRI-NUT + PLA arms (from a 75:25 rule to a 90:10 rule), and we varied the discount rate from 0% to 6% (40, 41).