 Deputy- Secretary/ Member-Secretary Under-Secretary concerned, nominated by the Secretary, !CAR (ii) JCAR research I. Director or his/her nominee Chairman institutes 2. One senior officer not Member lower in status than S-3, nominated by Director 3. An outside expert, Member nominated by Direcmr 4. An officer not lower in Member status than officers under consideration belonging to SC/ST community, nominated by Director 5. CAO/SAO/AO (in the Member-Secretary absence ofthese officers, any officer of equivalent status) ()CAR letter No.1(2)/81-Per.lV dated 10 September 1987) ]CAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES APPENDIX VI Proforma for Annual Assessment Report for Technical Personnel FORM III CATEGORY I REPORT FOR THE YEAR/PERIOD PART I (Parlic11forI robe Ji/led m b_v 1he admini.1·1rarive bmnchJ I. Name 2 Date of birth ,. Designation 4. Scale of pay 5. Qualifications (i) Academic (ii) Professional 6. Date of entry into service 7. Date of continuous appointment to the present post and grade 8. Date of posting to the present division/unit 9. Period of absence from duty on leave, training etc. during the period under report PART II ( fo he filled in by the official reported upon) " I. Give a resume of your perfonnance for the period under report in not more than 100 words in areas of tasks assigned to you. 2. Any difficulty in terms of facilities etc, experienced by the officer. Signature of1he Officer " ICAR HANDBOOK Of TECHNICALSERVIC'ES PART III ASSESSMENT OF THE REPORTING OFFICER (To be done by the head of division/section nore for the guidance of reporting officer) The preparation of reliable reports on the staff is an exceedingly important duty. !n fairness to the staff reported on, as well as in the interest of the smooth and efficient working of the institution, reports should be carefully and critically made. 1. What are the tasks assigned 10 the officer during the period under report? 2. What is your assessment of the Officer's performance of the task assigned to him, and his technical competence? 3. Has he adequate sense of responsibility? 4. Is he tit to be placed in-charge of members ofthe staff? 5. Has he/she made any significant contribution during the year? 6. Ha;-. he/she shown any professional/ supervisory ability of organizing capacity. 7. General Assessment: (i) Initiative (ii) Industry and Consicientiousness (iii) Physical capacity for duty (iv) Promptness in disposal of work (v) Punctuality and regularity (vi) Amenability to discipline (vii) Relations with (a) Subordinates ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES (b) Colleagues (c) Public {viii) Co-operative and team spirit and work 8. Has the Officer been reprimanded for indifferent work or for other reasons during the period under review ? If so, please give brief particulars 9. Integrity I 0. Overall grading (outstanding/very good/ good/average/below average Signature ot the Reporting Officer ... Name .... (In Block Jeners) Designation (During the period of report) Date ..