 • It can help growers manipulate environment conditions — lowers temperature, changes humidity and influences production numbers. • The movable screens can be used year-round and in a variety of climates — from the Netherlands to India. November–December 2019 33 applicable. Only light irrigation may be given later, if required. v) Destroy and remove the haulms from the field when the disease severity reaches >80% to reduce tuber infection. vi) Harvest the crop 12-15 days after cutting haulms, sort out the late blight infected tubers and store the seed after treating it with boric acid (3%). Chemical control: The use of fungicides in the management of late blight is unavoidable because of quick development of disease in the field. Nevertheless, one can economise on fungicides by scheduling sprays as per forecasting model. The institute has developed ‘Jhulsacast’ and ‘Indo-Blightcast’ models for prediction of appearance of late blight and scheduling of fungicides as per severity values thereby reducing the fungicide load in the environment. A schedule of minimum of 4 fungicide sprays is recommended. However, the number of sprays may be increased or decreased depending on disease pressure. I spray: As a prophylactic measure, spray the crop with contact fungicides like mancozeb 75% WP (0.2%), propineb 70% WP (0.2%) or chlorothalonil (0.2%) as soon as the weather conditions become congenial for late blight, or about a week in advance of canopy closure whichever is earlier. Do not wait or allow late blight to appear and establish in the field. Always use a sticker @0.1% for proper sticking and uniform spread of fungicide on leaf surface. II spray: As soon as the disease is noticed in the field, apply any of the systemic fungicides viz. cymoxanil + mancozeb (0.3%) or dimethomorph + mancozeb (0.3%) or fenamidone + mancozeb (0.3%) fungicides. III spray: Apply contact fungicides viz. mancozeb (0.2%), propineb (0.2%) or chlorothalonil (0.2%) after 8- 10 days of 2nd application of fungicides. However, if weather is highly congenial, repeat application of systemic fungicides may be resorted. IV spray: Apply systemic fungicides or contact fungicides as mentioned above depending on disease severity and weather conditions. Ensure thorough coverage of plants top to bottom with fungicides. Special attention should be given to lower leaves which need to be covered with fungicides. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Sanjeev Sharma Dr Sanjeev Sharma Dr Sanjeev Sharma Dr Sanjeev Sharma Dr Sanjeev Sharma (Principal Scientist), CAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171 001 Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: sanjeevsharma.cpri@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No.