 Predicting reference evapotranspiration Machine learning a subset field of Artificial Intelligence (AI) was used for estimating atmospheric water demand in a semi arid region. Reference evapotranspiration is controlled by climatic factors; hence estimation of reference evaporation gives an idea about the atmospheric demand of the environment. Machine learning techniques like ELNET, KNN, MARS, PSLR, RF, SVM, XGBoost and Cubist were employed to predict daily reference evapotranspiration on weather parameters (2000–20) of Jhansi. All models performed well during calibration showing higher R2 which ranges from 0.970 for PLSR model to 0.999 for cubist models. During validation of the entire machine learning models, coefficient of determination (R2) ranges from 0.819 to 0.999, RMSE from 0.608 to 0.071 and MAE from 0.384 to 0.036. On the basis of statistical parameters, it has been found that cubist model (R2=0.999, RMSE=0.071, MAE= 0.036) outperformed than all other models and can effectively simulate the prediction of reference evapotranspiration in semi-arid region. Artificial neural network (ANN) demonstrate capability to predict reference ET with high accuracy (R2=0.97) using complete input data. Further, ANN was also tested with limited data set (Tmax, Tmin and Rn) with fair accuracy (R2=0.89). This signifies that even in limited data scenario, machine learning models could be an effective tool (R2 =0.89) to predict the reference evapotranspiration in semi-arid region. K 10. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition Maize cob dryer Maize cobs are generally harvested at around 35% (wb) moisture content while shelling operation is performed at around 17% moisture content (wb). At the time of harvesting, the environmental conditions of high temperature and relative humidity favour the growth of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus, that produce mycotoxins. Its contamination decreases if cobs are dried soon after harvesting. A hot air maize cob dyer was developed with 150 kg capacity. The drying is carried out at 60°C, and it takes 24–27 h to reach the final moisture content of 17–18% (wb) at the atmospheric temperature (36.86°C) and RH (51.37%). Oxygen concentrator Ozone as a food disinfectant and fumigant during storage is being promoted as it does not leave any residue. Oxygen concentration facilitates better ozone generation hence an oxygen concentrator was developed. It utilizes a molecular sieve to adsorb gases onto zeolite minerals at high pressure. Rapid testing kit for detection of aflatoxin B1 in agricultural produce Certain fungi that are found in agricultural crops such as maize, peanuts, cotton seed, chillies etc. produce aflatoxins. These are carcinogenic and impose qualitative and quantitative losses to the agricultural produce. The lateral flow immuno assay (LFIA) device work with competitive ELISA principle is the first kind of lateral flow device developed for detection of toxins in the field of agriculture in India.