 Others Qualitative; Reference Category= Time taking Control Variables/Covariates Table 2 (continued) Variables Descriptions Types of variables Sanitation Index (SI) Sanitation Index of the entire household Ratio Female Wage Rate Per Day (FWD) Average wage received by the female members of the household per day Quantitative HDI Female (HDIF) Human development index for female Ratio Age (AG) Age of the household’s head (In years) Quantitative Years of Education (YEDU) Completed years of schooling (how many years a household head has completed formal school) Quantitative Income from Secondary Occupation (ISO) Income received from the secondary occupation of a household Quantitative Income from Primary Occupation (IPO) Income received from the primary occupation of a household Quantitative Total Number of Hours Spent by Female in a Year (HFA) Total number of hours spent by the female in a year in agricultural activities Quantitative Total Number of Hours Spent by Male in a Year (HMA) Total number of hours spent by the male in a year in agricultural activities Quantitative Kharif Fertilizer (KF) Expenditure on agricultural inputs, i.e., Kharif Fertilizer Quantitative Rabi Fertilizer (RF) Expenditure on agricultural inputs, i.e., Rabi Fertilizer Quantitative Kharif WC FC TC if any in Rs. (KWFT) Kharif Water Charges, Fuel Charges, and Transport Cost if any in Rs. Quantitative Rabi WC FC TC if any in Rs. (RWFT) Rabi Water Charges, Fuel Charges, and Transport Cost if any in Rs. Quantitative Land Owned Total (LOT) Total land owned by the household Quantitative Legal and Institutional Knowledge Land Ownership (LIOWN) Do you know all the children (including girl) of the parents can own land? 1. Yes, 0. No Qualitative; Dummy, 1=Yes, 0=No Awareness of Modern Technology (AMT) Are you aware of the use of modern technology in agriculture? 1. Yes, 0. No Qualitative; Dummy, 1=Yes, 0=No Use of Modern Technology (UMT) Do you use modern farming equipment in your agricultural activities? 1. Yes, 0. No Qualitative; Dummy, 1=Yes, 0=No Availability of Financial Institutions (FI) Existence of Banks 1. Yes, 0. No Qualitative; Dummy, 1=Yes, 0=No Caste Category (Caste) Caste the household head belong to? 1. Scheduled Caste (SC), 2. Scheduled Tribe (ST), 3. Other Backward Class (OBC), 4. Others (includes upper caste/forward category) Qualitative; Reference category: Forward Category (FC) Dummy, 1=SC, 0=Otherwise Dummy, 1= ST, 0=Otherwise Dummy, 1=OBC, 0=Otherwise Family Type (FT) It includes 1. Joint family (JF), 2. Nuclear family (NF) Qualitative; Reference category: Nuclear family (NF) Availability of Electricity (ECT) Family has electricity connections 1. Yes, 0. No Qualitative; Dummy, 1=Yes, 0=No Below Poverty Line (BPL) Family is either;1. BPL, 0. Non-BPL Qualitative; Dummy, 1=BPL, 0=Non-BPL Use of High Yielding Variety Seeds in Kharif (HYVK) Crop variety in the Kharif season 1. HYVK, 0.