 Added 2–3 kg ryegrass seed per acre with full seed rate of berseem or mixed 1 kg ryegrass seed per acre with the appropriate seed rate of berseem + oats or berseem + mustard mixture gives a high output of good quality fodder (Table 1). Table 1. Ryegrass intercropping systems Description Average green fodder yield (q/ha) Ryegrass 750 Ryegrass + Berseem 600–700 Ryegrass + Mustard 500–600 Ryegrass + Lucerne 600–800 Ryegrass + Oats/ Barley 450–600 Sowing methods (dry or wet method) Fine seedbeds are used for ryegrass sowing because of its minute seeds. Seedbeds are flooded to a depth of 0.5–1.0 inches. The seeds are dispersed in standing water after mixing with the upper layer of soil. Rapid germination and the simple establishment of young seedlings are obtained with this process. In the dry method, ryegrass seed is dispersed in a row using a seed drill, then covered with the plank, and watering is provided later. Nutrient management Nitrogen (N) is one of the most essential elements, limiting ryegrass leaf growth, biomass output, protein content, and quality. For normal soil, the recommended nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium doses are 80 kg N/ha, 60 kg P2O5/ha and 40 kg K2O/ha, respectively. The half dose of N was applied at the time of sowing and the remaining nitrogen was applied in split doses at 30 days interval. When soil is deficient in nutrients, application of 120 kg N/ha, 60 kg P2O5/ha and 40 kg K2O/ha, respectively is recommended. Water management The three key stages for irrigation in ryegrass seed production are tillering, head formation, and seed filling. For the proper seedling establishment, a little watering is required after one week of seeding. In general, irrigation is required from October–February at 12–14 day intervals and from March–April at 8–10 days interval. Irrigation should be applied after each cutting to promote good tiller development. Harvesting and yield The first cutting of green fodder should be taken 60–65 days after sowing. Subsequent cutting should be taken at 25–30 days interval. In general, the crop is left for seed production after three cuts. For seed production, the date of the last cut is critical, and it varies on crop growth and weather conditions. The experiment was conducted in Randomized Block Design (RBD) during the rabi season in 2021 at research field of the Agronomy Section, ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute (NDRI), Karnal, Haryana. Significantly higher plant height, green fodder yield, crude protein, ether extract, and total ash were recorded with 75% recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF) + 25% N farm yield manure Seed of ryegrass (Makkhan grass) at the time of sowing Indian Farming 26 February 2023 (FYM) + plant growth-promoting rhizobacteria (PGPR). Lower value of NDF and ADF were recorded with 75% RDF + 25% N FYM + PGPR compared to the control. The higher value of NDF and ADF shows poor quality of fodder (Table 2).