 Response to COVID 19 Pandemic ICAR responded to the challenges posed by COVID-19 Pandemic to farmers and farming sector across the country in tune with the policy directions and guidelines issued by the Government of India to all the States and UTs during the lockdowns. Taking note of the occurrence of the Corona-19 pandemic to coincide with critical farm operations in agriculture and allied sectors, ICAR through its countrywide network of KVKs supported by Agricultural Universities and ICAR research institutes alerted the farmers and stakeholders across the country on the pre- cautions, safety measures and need for social distancing while carrying out the time bound field operations such as harvesting, post-harvest processing, storage and marketing of grains, fruits, vegetables, eggs, meat and fish. ICAR issued national and state-specific advisory for farmers, translated into 15 regional languages and widely communicated through digital platforms. An e-book documenting the advisories at the national and state level was also released. The advisories received prime coverage in print, electronic and social media across the country including DD Kisan and other channels. Kharif advisory for farmers was issued by ICAR for dissemination in 15 regional languages to farmers and farmer groups in 29 states through 718 KVKs along with state extension departments through print, electronic and social media and digital platforms. The kharif advisory covered better management practices to be adopted by farmers in all major kharif crops of paddy, maize, millets, pulses, soybean, sugarcane, vegetables and fruit crops; livestock, poultry and fisheries production systems during the ensuing kharif season to boost farm productivity and profitability. Successful cases of agri-solutions to combat COVID 19 pandemic at farmer level were identified and documented. More than 100 best farm practices that helped farmers and farmers groups to cope with the lockdown by all KVKs across the country were documented for further dissemination. The practices covered innovative marketing linkages established, improved Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 170 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR storage, feed and fodder management, critical extension and advisory services, processing and value addition examples. More than 8.0 crore messages were issued by KVKs to farmers through issue of 2044 advisories across the states through m-Kisan portal. Dissemination of advisory was also made through WhatsApp groups, newspapers, radio and TV channels, other social media and ICT platforms. Advisories were disseminated to 20.28 lakh farmers during the lockdown periods. Out of these, 9.37 lakh farmers were covered through 6711 KVK WhatsApp groups and 10.91 lakh farmers reached through other ICT platforms.