 Conidial germination, which is the primary and secondary inoculum source of infection, requires free water on the fruit surface as well as high humidity for more than 10 hours. However, if the storage temperature rises to 40°C during ripening, severe rotting is more likely. Initially, the infection is contained in the epicarp, but it spreads to the pulp in a short period of time. During the ripening of fruits, the disease appears as dark lesions on the harvested fruits. In severe cases, the disease progresses quickly and the entire fruit rots within a few days. The greatest cause of concern is rotting of mature fruits during postharvest handling, ripening, and transportation, which reduces the number of consumable fruits and results in significant losses. The pre-harvest care is directly linked to post-harvest rot when fruits are symptomless and a quiescent infection occurs during fruit development, but decay and rotting occurs after harvest during ripening. Stem-end rot The next most economically important postharvest disease of mango fruits is stem-end rot. Several fungi have been found to cause stem-end rot in mango fruits, including Lasiodiplodia theobromae, Aspergillus niger, Phomopsis mangiferae or Dithiorella dominicana, and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides. L. theobromae has been Anthracnose symptoms on raw and ripe fruits Stem-end rot symptoms on fruits a b July–August 2021 51 identified as the most important secondary pathogen among these. The fungi that cause stem-end rot can also be found in soil and fallen leaves, from which the fruit can become infected after harvest. The pathogen is thought to enter mango trees through natural openings or wounds, then cause latent infection in the fruit by entering through the stem ends. Under high humidity, the conidia dispersed and released with free water. The pathogen can survive the winter on a tree or in the soil. The disease is more common in orchards with older trees, in areas with a lot of rain, and when fruits are stored for a long time. The fungi remain latently infected within the branches and twigs. The endophytic hyphae colonizes the inflorescence and extends to the stem end several weeks after flowering, but not into the fruit until harvest. In unripe fruit, the pathogen remains dormant. As the ripening process progresses, the fruit begins to rot near the stem end, turning brown-grey, soft, and rotting the entire fruit surface. When healthy fruits come into physical contact with decaying fruits, they become infected as well. Depending on the cause, the symptoms may differ. P. mangiferae causes firmer, more defined lesions that spread more slowly than those caused by other stem-end rot fungi. Bacterial black spot (canker) The black spots are caused due to bacterial infection that causes cankers on fruits. In general, Xanthomonas campestris pv.