 They tried to analyse the role of earned and unearned remittance in agricultural productivity. Their study findings show that unearned remittances improve agricultural productivity more than earned remittances. In the long term, agriculture can contribute to reducing rural poverty. However, in the short term, remittances from abroad are more effective in alleviating poverty through agricultural development in rural areas(Liu et al., 2020). At the same time, the individual and household factors like age, marital status, human capital, household size, caste, and land ownership greatly in­ fluence migration decisions and the amount of remittances sent (Pal, 2022). Agriculture is the most important economic sector of rural areas; in this context, it is important to study the role of socioeconomic, De­ mographic and Migration Factors of remittance utilization in agriculture in the Indian context. So, the research question arises: How do socio­ economic, demographic and migration factors influence the utilization of remittances in agricultural expenses among households in Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh (Middle Ganga Plain region), considering the prevalence of various agricultural inputs starting from hiring labour, purchasing hybrid seeds, purchasing fertilizer and pesticides to Fig. 1. Location Map of the Study Area. Map Source: MGP Migration Survey Report (2021) S. Sarkar and R. R.S. Research in Globalization 9 (2024) 100235 3 purchasing tubewell? 2. Rationale of the study Middle Ganga Plain (MGP) in this study covers Bihar and Eastern Uttar Pradesh in India. It is a vital region under the Agro-Climatic Zone in India, with 132 per cent cropping intensity (Sharma & Paithankar, 2014). Furthermore, outward migration is more prevalent in the rural regions of the country’s northern and eastern states, particularly in Uttar Pradesh and Bihar(Keshri & Bhagat, 2012). Simultaneously, according to the Middle Ganga Plain (MGP) migration survey report (2021), over 57 per cent of households consist of at least one member who has migrated for employment or business purposes within the country as well as across the border (Roy et al., 2021).. The Census of India (2011) also indicates that a total of 10.11 million male out-migration have occurred in these two states. Lack of employment is the primary reason for outward migration from the vast region of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar (Samanta & Munda, 2023). So, the migrant households of this MGP region receive not only internal remittance but also international remittance. This migration trend highlights the interconnectedness be­ tween local and global dynamics, as individuals from this region contribute to the global labour force. Understanding how remittances flow into these migrant households, both from internal sources and internationally, adds a global dimension to the study. Families receiving remittances tend to have a greater agricultural output (Kapri & Ghimire, 2020).