Pedigree and parentage have to be furnished in details as to how the parents have been developed with flow charts, instead of just code numbers.Flow chart should clearly present the development of the proposed culture with year- wise details of attempting initial cross, followed by handling of segregating generation. Details, indigenous (IC) or exotic (EC) collections and the number of accessions (provided by the NBPGR) if used, in the development of the variety or parental lines of hybrids, are to be provided. Please note that this IC number should be different from the one provided by the NBPGR at the submission of the seed sample of the line/hybrid/variety, the once variety/ hybrid is recommended by the Variety Identification Committee (VIC). 8. Source of material in case of introduction Details of the EC (Exotic collection) number, provided by the NBPGR, for the imported material used in the variety development, are to be given. 9. DNA profile of variety/hybrid/inbred/A, B, R lines of the hybrid vis-à-vis check variety/ line Detailed information on the molecular discrimination should be provided. Such information can be developed at crop-based institutes/NBPGR/Other labs. The information should include details of amplicons (name, sequence number, primer sequence) with reference to polymorphic markers. The relevant photographs should also be attached. 10. Breeding method used The method used in developing the variety/parental line 109 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 11. Breeding objective The breeding objective for developing the variety 12. State varieties which most closely resemble the proposed variety in general characters. The information should include name of the varieties resembling most closely to the proposed variety with reference to different phenotypic traits. 13. Recommended production ecology The information on zones (name of the states), season and production conditions, whether rainfed or irrigated, should be mentioned. 14. Description of the hybrid/variety The average and expected normal range with respect to various characters may be mentioned. 15. Description of parents of the hybrid The average and expected normal range with respect to characters may be mentioned with reference to inbred/A line/ B line/ R line. 16. Yield data in coordinated trials (breeding, agronomy, pathology, entomology, quality etc)and regional/inter-regional district trials year-wise (level of fertilizer application, density of plant population and superiority over local control/standard variety) are to be indicated (to be attached) The yield data and other data of coordinated trials and other details as per the format of tables should be appended. Please note that mean is ‘weighted mean’ and not the ‘arithmetic mean’. 17. Yield data from the national demonstration/large -scale demonstrations (to be attached) The yield and other details as per the format of the tables should be appended. 18.