 Dragon fruit postharvest management involves two key strategies: (i) emphasizing fresh consumption and (ii) promoting offseason consumption through value-addition to extend shelf-life. A schematic flowchart depicts the major post-harvest practices for fresh dragon fruit and its processed products. The subsequent sections explain relevant information about postharvest handling in the Indian context. Postharvest management practices for fresh dragon fruit Fruit maturity indices and quality characteristics: Dragon fruit, a non–climacteric fruit, should be harvested at full maturity, marked by maximum sugar levels and acidity for optimal quality and flavour. It contains small black seeds (2.70–14.7%), bright red/yellow skin (36.7–37.6%), and Postharvest management and value addition of dragon fruit (Hylocereus spp.) in India Dragon fruit (Kamalam) is gaining global recognition as a super crop due to its easy cultivation, high stress tolerance, and nutraceutical benefits. With its potential to thrive on degraded lands in India, large-scale farming is expanding rapidly, anticipating a production surge over 50,000 ha in next three years. While ensuring its success, effective plantation, harvesting and postharvest practices are essential, especially considering its short shelf-life of 5–7 days. Key postharvest disorders such as splitting, mechanical and chilling injury, moisture loss, and decay must be addressed promptly to minimize losses. Additionally, managing by-product wastes, such as peel and bulk stem segments for industrial applications is crucial for profitable agriculture. The current postharvest practices discussed need to be strictly implemented for fresh dragon fruit, as a major portion undergoes fresh consumption in the country. To address seasonal gluts and extend shelf-life, valorised products from dragon fruit pulp and peel developed by ICAR–NIASM are emphasized. The article concludes by stressing the importance of postharvest research, infrastructure development, market standards and policy formulation to support increased production, exports, and improve the livelihoods of poor and marginal farmers on degraded lands. G C Wakchaure*, Jaya D Choudhari, Ritu B Kukde and K Sammi Reddy Technology May–June 2024 29 white/coloured flesh (47.4–73.8%). An ideal harvest index suggests total soluble solids (TSS) to titratable acidity (TA) ratio of 40. Key maturity indicators include days after anthesis (DAA) and red peel colour intensity, with colour break occurring 25–32 days from flowering. A shift from vibrant green to full red skin signals maturity. Optimal harvest maturity is at 35–38 DAA for domestic and 32–34 DAA for international markets. In India, dragon fruit is generally harvested at physiological maturity within 30–35 DAA. Harvesting: In India, the fruiting peak extends from the second fortnight of July to September, occasionally stretching into December. Harvesting is conducted manually 8–10 times throughout the season.