 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 183 Control of sucking pests by powdered tobacco Five kg of powdered tobacco leaves mixed with 10 litres of cow urine and 5 litres of water are allowed to ferment for 3 to 5 days. Then it is filtered and mixed with 80 litres of water and sprayed to control all sucking pests (Madurai, Tamil Nadu). Vivekanandan (1999) 184 Control of insects by use of neem leaves Neem leaves are used as an insect repellant (Kasaragod, Kerala). 185 Hand picking of pests Hand picking of pests and their destruction is another time tested method of pest control. Right from picking lice from human hair, clothes and even animals to the manual separation of pests from stored grain. This method can prove effective in curtailing pest incidence on some crops. Tobacco caterpillar, sugarcane top borer,epilachna beetle etc, can easily be eliminated. The handpicked insects are destroyed by immersing them in kerosinized water or by deep burying. Some insects are destroyed by light trap (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 186 Control of insect by spreading leaves of Calotropis Farmers spreading the leaves of Calotropis (Calotropis sp.) in the standing crop which is infested by Katara (local name of army worm type of curting insect larvae). Katra gather on the broadcasted leaves of Calotropis and next day they collect all the leaves along with insect larvae. Simultaneously, fresh leaves are replaced there. The collected leaves with larvae are destroyed immediately (Mehsana, Gujarat). Raval (1992) 187 Use of red soil to prevent insect Red soil is mixed with water and small pellets are made. These pellets are dried in sunlight and are mixed with pulses in the storing vessel. It is believed that red earth has some acidic character which repels the insect pest (Pondicherry). Mutthu Arunachalam (2000–2001) 188 Control of Spodoptera lilura and Heliothis armigera 4 kg of Kuvarpathu (Aloe vera),50 ml of neem oil and 500 g of tobacco powder are boiled in 20 litres of water for 3-4 hrs to make a 5 litres solution.Then 50 g of aritha (Sapindus emarginatus) powder is added to the solution and mixed thoroughly.To control the worms, 100-150 ml of this filtrate is added to 15 litres of water and sprayed on the crop (Northern Gujarat). Patel (2001f) 84 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 189 Control of insect by use of kerosene and interculture Suspension of water and kerosene oil is sprayed on the castor plants for controlling infestation of ‘Lankani’ (local name of the pest). Sometimes people carry out deep interculture operations, followed by heavy planking on standing crop to kill the pest (Mehsana, Gujarat). Patel (1992l) 190 Nematode control through trap crop in tomato and chilli For cotrol of nematode Chamanthi (Chrysanthemum coronarium), a flowering plant is raised on the borders of tomatoes/chillis fields (Vattalakundu, TamilNadu).