 Research on designing and fabrication has led to the development of low-cost cages with the use of diverse indigenous materials to promote cage farming. Cages are also being used for intensive grow- out production of highly-growing catfishes (pangas) and tilapia in open waters. The last decade has witnessed an increase in cage farming activities in our inland waters with the initiation of different promotional schemes by the States Fisheries Departments with support from the National Fisheries Development Board (NFDB). Ongoing large-scale cage farming in the states of Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Assam and Odisha are testimony to this successful technology adoption where large-scale farming of P. hypophthalmus is in progress. 2.1.4. Community-based Capture Fishery Development in Open Waters Developmental activities on community-based fisheries are based upon the principle of common interest groups working together for improving the fisheries resources of the open waters. Over the years, ICAR institutes have intensified their efforts to increase awareness among the local communities about the importance of participatory management of open water resources for improved productivity, maintenance of ecosystem health and better livelihood support. Research Institutes are working to strengthen the knowledge base and capacity building of the local community and line departments to address the challenges in inland waters for sustainable management of the ecosystems. The efforts include habitat fingerprinting, assessment and conservation of fisheries in natural waters such as reservoirs, rivers and estuarine eco-systems including mangroves, benchmarking for the sustenance of the aquatic ecosystem health, pollution abatement, fish disease surveillance, etc. Implementation of the fishing holiday, mesh size regulation, seed ranching, the concept of culture-based capture fisheries and other holistic management of the open waters including reservoirs and floodplain wetlands which have helped in improving their fisheries potentials. The productivity of many of the small and medium reservoirs which have remained as low as 20-25 kg/ha has been improved to 150 kg/ha. Community participation in such fish production activities is helping to improve the livelihood of the local population. 55 2.2. Technology Development in Brackishwater Aquaculture 2.2.1. Seed production The utilization of the brackishwater resources in the country started with the popularization of the black tiger shrimp (Penaeus monodon) in the 1990s. The tiger shrimp farming was a booming industry during the beginning phase in the 1990s but lost its vigour due to the widespread outbreak of the white spot disease syndrome. With the boom in tiger shrimp farming, a large number of hatcheries were established in the coastal states for seed production. But due to the disease issue, most of the hatcheries remained non-functional.