 In that direction, the advancements in irrigation techniques have proved to be the most efficient developments targeted towards sustainable cultivation of rice. Moreover, the development of varieties with a higher yield and shorter duration of maturity can help in sustainable increase of cropping intensity of rice. *Corresponding author's e-mail: nanditapatra@gmail.com Authors ! Upload your article for Indian Farming and visit https//epubs.icar.org.in Indian Farming 36 August 2023 Direct seeding of rice in Punjab: Current status, performance and limitations Gurpreet Singh, Sangeet Ranguwal* and Raj Kumar Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 As an alternative solution to the traditional puddled transplanted rice (PTR), the direct seeding of rice (DSR) is a viable alternative to overcome the problems of rising cultivation costs and declining water table for sustainable rice production. The DSR is yet to become an integral part of the farming system in Punjab. Easy availability of labour for transplanting paddy followed by lack of technical knowledge, diffidence in adopting DSR and non-availability of required machinery/ implements are the major reasons behind slow-adoption of DSR. For wider acceptance of DSR, there is a need to generate more awareness of recommended DSR production practices along with timely availability of required farm machinery on custom hiring basis, auxiliary research and development efforts. Keywords: Adoption, Groundwater, Paddy, Variable costs R ice is one of the most important food crops of India. About 70% Indians use rice as their primary food source, and it occupies 40– 45% of all the land in India under cereal crops. The growing demand of rice has to be met by producing more rice with less agricultural input usages. Different challenges like lowering water table, labour shortage during peak times and declining soil quality necessitate an alternative establishment approach to maintain rice production as well as natural resources. When the future of rice production is in jeopardy due to worldwide water constraint, direct seeded rice (DSR) presents a desirable alternative. The conventional puddled transplanting of rice (PTR) is water, capital, energy and labour-intensive practice. There is an urgent need to switch from the traditional PTR to DSR because it is not only cost, input, energy and time saving but is also environment friendly. Punjab state has been playing a leading role in the agricultural transformation of the country. A sustainable production of rice in the Indian Farming 73 (08): 36-38; August 2023 state is crucial for the food security of India. The state has contributed about 25–30 rice and 35–40% wheat to the central pool during the last one decade. Water guzzling paddy is a dominant crop in the cropping pattern of the Punjab state and is putting the groundwater resources in a jeopardy situation.