 Googly is equivalent to any meat, which cures dysentery. Name and address of the discloser : Mrs. Saroja Bala Manna, Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Location of use of the ITK : Bachichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Experimenters : Dr D. Seenappa, Associate Professor-Aquaculture Extension Education Unit, and Dr Kamal G. Nath, Associate Professor, Department of Rural Home Science, University of Agricultural Sciences, Hebbal, Bangalore (Karnataka) 560 024 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was carried out at the University of Agricultural Sciences, Banglore (Karnataka). Experiment Meat picking Googly was collected from the edges of the ponds by hand. These were cleaned in fresh clean water. One kg googly was weighed and the number was counted. They were boiled in hot water for 20 minutes and the meat was picked using a Fig. 1. Googly and its collection from ponds needle. The picked meat was weighed to determine the meat yield. Curry preparation Ingredients used for preparation of 250 g meat curry are given in Table 1. Potato, onion, garlic and tomato were cut, leaving their upper surface. Onion, garlic and ginger were made into a fine paste in a mixer. This paste along with cumin powder, turmeric and 150 g oil was mixed thoroughly with googly meat. It was then fried in a pan for 10 minutes and taken out of the oven. Potato slices were Fig. 2. Meat picking from googly  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Table 1. Ingredients used in googly meat preparation Ingredients Quantity (g) Potato 500 Onion 250 Garlic 50 Ginger 50 Cucumin powder 50 Turmeric 25 Tomato 250 Mustard/sunflower oil 250 Cleaned googly 250 Salt as per taste Water 1,000 ml fried in the remaining oil and the fried meat mixture was added to it. Later tomato slices were added and fried together. After about 5 minutes water and salt were added to prepare a curry. The curry was sufficiently boiled for 20 minutes and was served hot for organoleptic evaluation. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Meat yield For determining the meat yield, 355 snails (googly) were taken, having average weight 2.86 ą 0.12 g (n=30). Theus 1 kg googly gave 470 g meat, leading to 47% meat yield. Fig. 3. Meat prepared from googly Organoleptic evaluation The product googly curry was subjected to organoleptic evaluation. A five point Hedonic Score-sheet and a descriptive score sheet were utilized for this purpose. A total number of seven semi- trained panel of judges evaluated the product. The product was served within 2 hours of preparation, at ideal temperature. The mean score of seven panelists for the product was found to be 40.86 with a standard deviation of ą5.01. Based on mean scores the product was adjudged good and acceptable. CONCLUSION The disclosed information was found to be an acceptable dish.   FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted in Sogod village of Namkum block in Ranchi district of Jharkhand.