 Strengthening the Departmental Farms for enhancing Livestock Productivity The Department of Animal Husbandry has under its control 11 Livestock Farms, one poultry Farm and one Fodder Farm. These farms were established with a mandate to demonstrate latest technologies in the field of Animal Husbandry and to supply quality genetic material to the farmers. Modern amenities will be provided taking into account animal physiology, behavior, climatic conditions of the area and scientific designing. Such modern infrastructure will provide health sustaining and comfortable environment to different categories of livestock for health, longevity and ideal productivity, desirable working conditions for labor and supervisory staff of the farm, harmonized integration of housing with feeding, watering, milking and manure handling systems for efficient production. It is hence proposed to provide modern shelters taking into consideration of factors such as heat, humidity, over-crowding, light, ventilation, sanitation etc, at departmental farms at Abishegapatti (Tirunelveli District), Sattur (Virudhunagar), Chettinad (Sivagangai), Pudukottai, Naduvoor and Eachenkottai (Thanjavur), Korukkai (Thiruvarur), Chinnasalem (Villupuram), Mukundarayapuram (Vellore), Hosur (Krishnagiri), Kattupakkam and Padappai (Kancheepuram) and Ooty. Induction of new genetic pool Department livestock farms serve not only as demonstration units but also provide livestock of good genetic merit for breeding purposes to the farmers. Scientific principle advocates continuous replacement of genetic pool in the breedable age group to avoid undesirable effects of inbreeding. In addition, ageing animals with declining production and reproductive potential also need to be continuously replaced. Taking the above factors into consideration, approximately 25 per cent of the breedable population in the livestock farms is proposed to be replaced every year by purchasing quality livestock from various sources. This will increase the number of quality off - springs of high genetic merit, so that more number of such animals can be distributed to the farmers for breeding purpose. This will facilitate increase in livestock production and productivity with a direct bearing on socio economic condition of the farmers. Augmentation of Fodder availability in the State The health and productivity of livestock are closely linked with the quantum and quality of forage production. Forage-based economical feeding strategies are required to reduce cost of quality livestock products; as feed alone constitutes 60-70 per cent of milk-production cost. Both quantitatively and qualitatively, there exist a huge gap between the demand and supply 517 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 of green fodder in the State. It is estimated that the average cultivated area devoted to fodder production is only 1.3 per cent of the total area and the pasture and grazing land comprises only 0.