 Exposure to 20 neonate FAW larvae at V5 phonological stage coupled with the adoption of LDR on a 1-9 scale aided in preliminary characterizing maize genotypes as resistant, moderately resistant and susceptible rating scale describes the proportion of damaged leaves and elongated lesions so that fine differences in damage levels can be estimated. A portable device for LAMP-based detection of pathogens: Molecular diagnosis outside a laboratory set up is very difficult, especially in the agriculture sector. Farmers often notice visible disease symptoms on crops but since laboratory accesses are limited, such situations go unnoticed resulting in huge losses in crop production. Timely and cost-effective detection of such symptoms on the field scale may be a boon to the farmers. ICAR-NBAIM has developed a low-cost portable device to be used in field conditions. It is a compact electronic device with a temperature control system that can heat water to a desired temperature and maintain optimum reaction temperature for performing isothermal amplification reactions in the field Mass multiplication of pupal parasitoid, Tetrastichus howardi on stored top borer pupa Sugarcane top borer pupae stored for 10-30 days were found suitable for mass multiplication of pupal parasitoid Tetrastichus howardi, in terms of adult emerged/pupa, female emergence and number of progeny/pupa for sugarcane borer management by ICAR-IISR, Lucknow, solving thereby, the problem of obtaining large numbers of suitable hosts at the time of mass multiplication. Stored pupae of top borer as host Emergence of T. howardi from top borer pupa AI-based detection of pests and diseases in sugarcane was detected, followed by thiamethoxam (199 ng L-1). The highest detection frequency was recorded for insecticide fenobucarb (80.00%) followed by herbicide pretilachlor (79.00%). Maximum number of pesticides were detected in October followed by September. The highest RQmax values were observed in case of fenpropathrin (1,347) followed by cyfluthrin (589). The present study reveals that small streams are polluted with pesticides and there ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 73 CROP MANAGEMENT Stepwise procedure of agroinoculation method by detached one cotyledon of sprouted seeds using dimer constructs of MYMIV DNA A and DNA B. (a) Germinated seeds after incubation for 24 h, (b) germinated seed after removal of seed coat, (c) detachment of one cotyledon from the seed coat removed germinated seeds, (d) pin-pricking at the site of epicotyl, (e) incubation of pin-pricked with agroculture containing MYMIV (both DNA A and DNA B) at 180 rpm, 28 °C for 2 h, (f) sowing and growing of agroinoculated seedlings, (g) development of yellow mosaic symptoms. Artificial intelligence-based system for detection of leaf blight of wheat An image analysis system using a deep learning technique has been developed to automatically identify and classify leaf blight symptoms in wheat crop.