 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2173 Takingjeera (cumin seeds) water against indigestion Volume 2, page 359 Jeera Refer to ITK Code No. 827 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2174 Asafoetida to relieve stomach and backaches Volume 2, page 359 Asafoetida Refer to ITK Code No. 702 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2176 Dhania (Coriander seed) sharbat to relieve stomachache Volume 2, page 359 Dhania Refer to ITK Code No. 1185 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK : 1225 : Use of neem juice for treatment of fever of calves Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Volume 2, page 366 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 1253 Herbal preparation for cough and cold Volume 2, page 367 Apamarg Assamese: chik-kai-rek, non-phak-pe, soh-byrthied; Bengali: apang, chirchiti; Gujarati: aghedo, anghedo; Hindi: chirchira, chirchitta, latjira; Kannada: utranigida, uttaraanne; Malayalam: kadaladi; Marathi: aghada, aghara; Oriya: apamaranga, apamargo; Sanskrit: apamaraga; Tamil: chirukadaladi, naayurivi; Telugu: apamargamu, uttareeni. Prickly, chaff flower Achyranthes aspera Linn. The young leaves are eaten as a pot-herb; also the plant is grazed by cattle and goats. The seeds are nutritious when cooked with milk and are a potential source of food; their chemical composition showed close similarity to that of bengal gram. It is reported to be pungent, astringent, pectoral and diuretic. It is used as an emmenagogue, and in piles and skin eruptions. A decoction of the plant is useful in pneumonia and renal dropsy; in large doses, however, the decoction or juice acts as an ecbolic. The juice of the plant is reported to be used in ophthalmia and dysentery. The benzene extract of stem bark showed significant abortifacient activity. A decoction of the roots is used for stomach troubles, and an aqueous extract for stones in the bladder. The flowers, ground and mixed with curd and sugar, are given as a medicine for menorrhagia. The flower-tops are stated to be employed for the treatment of rabies. Powdered seeds are soaked in butter-milk and given for biliousness; the seeds are said to be emetic. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK An erect or procumbent, annual or perennial herb, 1-2 m in height, often with a woody base, commonly found as a weed of waysides and waste places throughout India, up to an altitude of 2,100 m, and in the south Andaman Islands.