 Its cultivation in jhum field is ideal during the months of April and May. The ideal growth temperature range for millets is between 26–290C for optimum production and good crop yield. It is grown in regions with rainfall between 500–900 mm. Calcium, iron, protein, fiber and other minerals are abundant in millets. The cereal primarily Indian Farming 73 (07): 33-35; July 2023 contains unsaturated fat, which has a low-fat content. The absence of gluten makes it simple to digest. Given its lower glycemic response or reduced capacity to spike blood sugar levels, it helps diabetics maintain blood sugar levels. Millets are one of the most nutrient-dense cereals and also aid in maintaining bone health, decreasing blood cholesterol, regulating anemia and keeping weight under control. Significance of organic farming in millets The continuous cultivation of cereals and other crops with heavy use of chemical fertilisers to increase crop yields has wreaked havoc on the nation’s rivers and waterways. A few of these rivers have developed such high levels of contamination that no use can be made of their water. If the problems are not resolved quickly, regions of eastern Himalayas could experience similar problems since the once-fertile soils are now unsuitable for cultivating any crop. The recent monsoon failure in India’s north eastern states, where the majority of farmers rely on rain-fed agriculture to cultivate their crops, has, nevertheless, had a terrible effect on the local farmers in the region. Foxtail millet cultivation in Upper Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh Source: https://www.researchgate.net/ figure/Foxtail-millet-plants-cultivated-in- field-condition-a-Fully-grown-foxtail-millet- plants_fig1_320536530 Proso millet cultivation in East Siang district of Arunachal Pradesh Source: http://encrypted-tbn1.gstatic.com/ images?q=tbn:ANd9GcR Indian Farming 34 July 2023 Due to the increasing frequency of droughts in some of India’s most productive agricultural regions, farmers must adopt farming techniques that have the least negative environmental effects while still yielding an adequate number of crops to support their livelihood and the nation’s food demand. This is where sustainable organic farming and millet cultivation comes into play. Organic nutrient management millet cultivation For millets, chemical fertilisers are not much required. As a result, majority of the farmers produce it in purely ecological conditions using farmyard manure. Farmers have recently begun employing organic fertilisers like vermicompost from their own backyards. Also employed are growth-promoting substances like Panchagavya and Amritpani. These methods make millet production environmentally friendly. Nutrient management in organic millet farms should effectively meet the nutrient requirements of the crop, prevent nutrient depletion, and maintain or boost soil productivity without disproportionate nutrient losses.