 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3554 Pickle of jalpai 3555 Preparation of pickle from thore leaves and flowers spices are fried in groundnut oil. After frying, the boiled fruits of kerda are added to the fried spices mixture. After cooling it is stored in an earthen pot. The pickle is ready for consumption now. Keywords: kerda, xerophytic, groundnut oil, alum water Women folk of Adi tribe collect jalpai, which is a tuber. After proper cleaning with water the tubers are boiled in sufficient quantity of water for 5 min. Mixture of mustard, fenugreek, salt, turmeric and a few other local spices are powdered and mixed with boiled jalpai tubers. This mixture is kept in an earthen pot and finally mustard oil is mixed with this mixture and kept in sunlight for 6-7 days. After 12-14 days this pickle is eatable. This is very nutritious, delicious and mouth watering. About 65-75% people use this pickle and its knowledge of preparation is age-old. Keywords: jalpai, pickle, fenugreek, turmeric In Alwar district, (Rajasthan) many village women prepare pickle from thore plant. Thore plant is a xerophytic plant, which is abundant in Alwar district. Thore leaves and flowers are collected, cleaned and washed. These are cut into small pieces, boiled for 5- 10 min with aonla (Emblica ojficinalis) or imli (Tamarindus indica) leaves. These leaves neutralize the poisonous effect of the thore sap. This mixture is fried in mustard oil, and then turmeric, onion, garlic and spices are added to it. The mixture is cooked for 20 min and then it is ready to be taken. During preparation of the pickle, the same mixture is dried under Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3556 Use of indigenous algae as vegetable 3557 Ethnic food preparation from dhenkiya sag and flower or tender leaves of pumpkin 3558 Ethnic food made from various plants leaves sun for a few hours, and then stored in earthen pot. Keywords: thore leaves and flowers, xerophytic, anola, imli, neutralize Aadi tribes of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh prepare ethnic food from local algae species, which is found in local aquatic areas like ponds and rivers. Algae are collected and cleaned properly. It is fried in edible oil, and garlic, spring onion, chillies and coriander are added. This is now ready for eating. A few members of Aadi community eat it just after the boiling. These algae are collected, dried in sun and stored for the off- season use.