 Its work in taking out the weeds is very effective while work as a harrow, it functions as a rake to a certain extent in collecting the uprooted seedlings and weeds. In clay loam soils to a depth of 1-3 inches. The average draught is 110- 130 lbs and is used by 60% of the farming community in this region. (Nadia ICAR (1960) 134 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference Howrah, Hoogly, Burdwan, Midnapore, Murshidabad, Malda, West Dinajpur and Cooch Bihar (West Bengal)). 110 Bullet motorcycle with Saanti for weeding Farmers in these villages remove the hind wheel and fit two- wheels making it a three-wheeler motorcycle. Saanti is fixed to this and used to remove weeds. A custom-made Saanti exclusively for the motorcycle with the help of a carpenter in Mota Devaliya village. The saanti can be dismantled easily and refitted if necessary. Using motorcycle-saanti, the cost of weeding a bigha of land in two rupees and about forty bighas can be covered within a day. The total cost of making the motorcycle-saanti including the cost of an old bullet is about Rs. 15,000. It can also be used for other operations like sowing sesamum or sorghum. It, however, suffers with one limitation. When it reaches one end of the field, to shift to the next row. Otherwise it can damage the entire plant-row in the process of the changing the direction. Chheladiya (1998) 111 Khilna for weeding Handle is made of a branch of sturdy wood and tool is made of iron, shaped like an arrow head. Used for uprooting weeds (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 112 Discarded glucose infusion sets for drip irrigation Everyday, several used intravenous (TV) infusion sets are dumped in the garbage. Badribhai Patel, an organic farmers of Dharampur village, Savali taluka in Middle Gujarat got the idea of using these discarded (TV) infusion sets for applying liquid organic fertilizer and water as drip irrigation.He collected used infusion sets from veterinary dispensaries of surrounding villages. He hung the bottle from a stick planted near one to two year old saplings in a sapota orchard and inserted the discharging needle in the root-zone. The bottles were covered with dried grass or old gunny bags to protect them from scorching heat of the sun. A hole was made in the bottle through which 500ml water is poured in everyday,using a funnel.He also used this set up to apply specially-prepared organic fertilizer. In a big barrel filled with 200 litre water approximately 30-40 kg of cattle dung is hung in gunny/cloth bag and sealed. The water is stirred on every alternate day. After 15 days, the filtrate becomes yellow and is used as organic liquid manure after mixing with clean water in the Patel (1995b) 135 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference proportion of 1:2. It is filled in the TV bottles. The organic fertilizer is given at one week interval.