 In case of circular shape the width is more at the base which starts decreasing from the middle of the structure called ‘talent’ and ultimately it takes the shape of a circular pyramid. Earlier a cloth made from yak’s hair called ‘thobi’ was used to cover it but now a days layer of green-thorny bushes or poor quality long grass is used as a cover along with wheat or rajmash straw. Stone or heavy wood logs are used for pressing and holding the ghor in place. This practice protects the grass from rain and snow and strong winds. In winter grass is removed from ghor which remains completely dry and warm and is relished by the livestock (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). 67 Rainfed paddy in Jal lands Jal lands are those lands which suffer from water logging problem in semi-arid red soils due to the lateral movement of underground water in the root zone during rainy season (kharif). Farmers in these lands grow rainfed paddy, which helps in diversifying the cropping programme and reducing the production of risk (Andhra Pradesh). Sanghi (1993) 68 Judicious selection of cropping sequences utilizing both indigenous and modern agricultural knowledge in conserving and management of resources Farmers initially have their own knowledge of agriculture which they inherit from their ancestors, society: addition and alteration to this take place time to time. Similarly, selection of crops or cropping sequence by a farmer is also guided by his traditional belief and disbelief, ethos, his socio economic conditions, resources available, and of course by the crop or cropping sequence economics. A case study was undertaken to identify (i) The crops and cropping sequences operated in area, (ii) How many of these crops/sequences are governed by the traditional knowledge of agriculture of the farmers (iii) How the economics of the cultivation is changing with the change of crops or cropping sequences and (iv) How judicious is the conservation and utilization of resources (both natural and human) in these crops and cropping sequences. Thirty different cropping sequences were identified which can broadly be categorized into three groups (a) cropping sequences Sarkar and Sahu (2002) 34 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference which are based on modern agricultural technology/knowledge (b) cropping sequences based on traditional knowledge/belief of agriculture and (c) cropping sequences, where one has used modern knowledge providing due consideration to traditional knowledge and belief on agriculture. Crop/crop sequence economics along with the utilization of human resources and requirement/conservation of water has been studied for different sequences. The study concludes that cropping sequences based on combination of both traditional knowledge/belief with modern knowledge of agriculture are no inferior than the modern knowledge of agriculture alone.