 The research findings and benefits reaped by the farmers in recent years clearly indicate the advantages of adopting micro-irrigation systems for higher water productivity, enhanced fertilizer use efficiency, reduced input energy and labour, etc. The average penetration rate of micro-irrigation in India is about 19%. In the year 2019-20, Technological milestones 1948 First Multipurpose River Valley Project (Damodar Valley Corporation, Jharkhand) 1955 First Major Irrigation Project (Bhavani Sagar Dam, Tamil Nadu) 1967 First Masonry dam in Independent India (Nagarjuna Sagar Dam, Telangana) 1977 Introduction of low-density polyethylene plastic in irrigation system 1978 Beginning of marketing of drip irrigation system by Netafim, Israel in India 1985 Centrally Sponsored Scheme on use of plastics in agriculture 1996 Accelerated Irrigation Benefit Programme 2006 Centrally Sponsored Scheme on micro irrigation 2010 National Mission on Micro Irrigation 2015 Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojna Indian Agriculture after Independence 294 about 11 lakh farmers have benefited by the adoption of these systems. During the last five years, an area of 4.8 Mha has been covered under these systems. 5.3. Renewable and bio-energy Solar, wind, geo-thermal, bio-mass energy can fulfil around 33% and 75% of India’s and rural areas’ energy needs respectively. According to the Central Electricity Authority of India, about 50% of the country’s power supply will be generated by renewable energy sources by 2030. Solar energy can be used in rural India, especially for agriculture and post- harvest processing and value addition. However, the fluctuating need of torque depending on the agricultural field conditions presents a major technical hitch. The use of batteries for storing and releasing power is another concern for long term use of solar photovoltaic (SPV) gadgets. A Government of India scheme on “Promotion of Agricultural Mechanization and Machinery for In-situ Management of Crop Residue” has been implemented in the states of Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and NCT of Delhi during 2018-22. Adding ex- situ management techniques would make these efforts more sustainable. Bio-CNG has emerged as an option for ex-situ management of crop residue. Biochar generation, briquette production and conversion into bio-crude are three major options for value addition to crop residue. Biomass-based electricity generation systems are already in use at national level. Thermo-chemical and bio-chemical conversion based electrical power routes are available and there is a need to promote these with better incentives. There is also a need to develop the energy efficient and cost effective techniques for use of locally available energy sources to make rural India energy self-reliant, and self sufficient.