 1 per cent increase in the digestibility of sorghum fed to dairy cows led to 6-9 per cent increase in milk production. Improvements in nutrition and genetics, in conjunction with improvement in management practices, have resulted in increased milk yield. A small change in crop-residue quality has shown a significant impact in milk production. Using spin-off technologies from second-generation biofuel production may turn crop residues from ‘waste’ into high-quality concentrates. These technologies of deconstructing ligno- cellulosic biomass increase digestibility of feed. Increased digestibility would lead to increased milk production. This combined effort of breeding and processing can unlock more feed resources for Indian dairy industry. The One-Health concept recognizes that human health is connected to the health of animals and environment. This approach has been recommended to facilitate communication and collaboration across research disciplines in responding to challenges in human, animal and environmental health. In the Indian context, this approach is very important and in this, ICAR and ILRI can work together. The ICAR and ILRI is conducting research on the following three key issues at the animal human health interface. 1. Diagnosis zoonoses: Zoonotic diseases associated with the consumption of milk have been due to bovine tuberculosis and brucellosis. Both of these diseases cause severe illness in humans and are difficult to be diagnosed and controlled in animals. 2. Diagnosis of antimicrobial resistance (AMR): To reduce its risk one-health approach at all levels is important. Creating awareness, motivation, good production practices and vaccination can help in maintaining health. 3. Food safety: It is essential to improve quality and safety of milk without 82 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series jeopardizing livelihood. Improvement in this informal market can be by improving knowledge, attitude and practices to increase productivity to produce safe milk. India is a growing country and so is Africa and there are great opportunities for South-South learning. The lessons learnt from India can be valuable in Africa to develop a sustainable dairy sector. Key takeaway Improvement in informal markets through improved knowledge, attitude and practices to produce safe milk. 83 Contemporary Agricultural Research Cutting-edge Research Cutting-edge Research 84 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 85 Cutting-edge Research GENOMICS AND BREEDING INNOVATIONS IN AGRICULTURE Rajeev K. Varshney Genomics is basically the study of whole genomes of the organisms. Since a couple of centuries, plant breeders have been using conventional breeding technologies to improve agronomic qualities of cultivated crops (wheat, maize, rice, barley etc) to increase food production. The challenge of feeding increasing human population can unlikely be met by these technologies alone.