 The slopy land where soil is shallow and yellowish black is chosen for planting pineapple, litchi, plum, pear, peach, jackfruit, lemon, lime, pummelo, sisar (timber tree), bamboo, tejpatta (Cinnamomum tamala), and vegetables like mustard and beans. In the border, bamboo and timber species are planted as they check soil and water erosion. Simultaneously between the plants on border, broomgrass and lemongrass are planted, whereas some farmers plant Lantana camara to avoid entrance of wild animals. In the second line of the border, plum and peach are intercropped with lemon, lime, pummelo (Citrus decumena) and tejpatta (Cinnamomum tamala). In the third line, pineapple is planted with local variety of litchi and jackfruit. After an interval of 3—4 years pineapple is uprooted and after making small pieces it is mixed with the soil to improve the organic matter content of the soil. Keywords: sloppy land, sisar, pummelo, tejpatta The farmers of Sikar, Jaipur and Tonk districts of Rajasthan have identified different utility plants according to soil condition in relation to texture, structure, reaction, gradient, nutrient pattern and water stress with the climatic conditions of the locations. The prominent fruit species selected by the farmers have characteristics of surviving under low-fertility and moisture-stress conditions of soil atmosphere. The prominent fruit Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Dheeraj Singh, Assistant Professor (Pomology) and Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Asstt. Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 761 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3034 Bamboo case species for wasteland under arid conditions are jharberi (Ziziphus nummularia), bordi or her (Ziziphus mauritiana), ker (Capparis dicidua) and gonda (Cordia myxa). The farmers of semi-arid conditions have a lot of choice like guava, custard apple, pomegranate, bael (Aegle marmelos), tamarind, khirni (Manilkara kauki), jamun (Syzygium cumini) and datepalm. In extreme arid conditions the fruit plants like her, ker, Opuntia are grown. Custard apple, pomegranate, guava and aonla are successfully grown under medium- rainfall conditions. For saline and alkali soils prominent fruit plants grown by the farmers are datepalm, ber, aonla (Emblica officinalis), bael, jamun, guava, karonda, mulberry, phalsa (Grewia subinaequalis) and gonda (Cordia myxa). Keywords: wasteland, utility, plant, semi-arid, arid Basket made of bamboo is used to protect chicken and hen at home. Baskets of different types made as shelter for chicken and hen growers.