 The pickle produced can be stored up to 45 days in room Glucose syrup Banana chips Banana Syrup March–April 2021 39 condition, without any changes in comparable differences in physiochemical components and sensory attributes. Low calorie stem juice Central core stem from banana which is often considered a farm waste is traditionally known for its rich nutrient content. The inner part of tender pseudostem from banana plant is edible and contains macro and micro nutrients in high concentration. It is also a rich source of potassium and vitamin B6 which helps in the production of insulin and haemoglobin. When consumed, it reduces high blood pressure and can also maintain fluid balance within the body. The extract from tender portion, is an excellent diuretic and helps to detoxify the body, useful for stomach disorder and diabetes. The central stem extracts is an excellent antiurolithiatic agent and is considered to be useful in dissolving the stones in kidney and urinary bladder. Blending of banana central core juice with sweeteners were the most effective with high acceptability, low calorie and high-quality attributes and the storage at 7°C can provide acceptable level of sensory temptation to the juices. No sugar, no preservative alternatives were developed to capture the health conscious population and to bring them into consuming healthy processed food products. core stem powder with different ratio of substitution. It may have immense potential for commercialization in food industry considering its high nutrient content with antioxidant property and rich in dietary fibre. Functional enrichment of value added product with banana peel powder The post-harvest losses in banana have been estimated in the range of 20-25%. Recently, the use of banana as an ingredient for functional foods has gained significant i n t e r e s t . T h i s i s particularly due to the banana carbohydrates (starch and non-starch) having low digestibility, which makes it an excellent ingredient for consumption. The peel has been found to contain high levels of dietary fibre and phenolic compounds. Moreover, the material has been demonstrated to exhibit potent antioxidant capacity, antimicrobial and antibiotic properties. As such, it is a promising material for further applications in the nutraceutical and pharmaceutical industries. The left out in chips industry or the peel from immature banana could be used for making different functional products. Strategies to promote banana based processing industries yy Unlike developed countries, the food processing sector in India is dominated by the unorganized sector, contributing more than 80% share. Bringing them into the MSME bracket is pre-requisite to boost the processing of horticultural produces especially the crops like banana.