 Ganesan, Pradhna Nursery, Open-Air Theatre - Prathana, New Mahabalipuram Road, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) Location of use of the ITK : Melakkottai, Kovilur, Alangudi, Pudukkottai, (Tamil Nadu) 622 301 Geographical indicators Common name : Kumati fruit Botanical name : Colocynthis vulgaris Family : Cucurbitaceae Description The Cucurbitaceae or cucurbit family (also commonly referred to as the cucumber, gourd, melon, or pumpkin family) is a medium-sized plant family, primarily found in the warmer regions of the world. It is a major family for economically important species, particularly those with edible fruits. Some of these represent some of the earliest cultivated plants in both the Old and New Worlds. Some have medicinal and other uses. The family is distinct morphologically and biochemically from other families and is therefore considered monophyletic. General opinion is that it is closest allied phylogenetically with the Begoniaceae in the order Violales. Some of the major genera are less clearly defined and are in need of modern monographic treatments. Distribution Pantropical and subtropical; a few representatives in temperate to cooler climates. Experimeters : Dr F.R. Sheriff, Director of Extension Education, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University,  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Madhavaram Milk Colony Post, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 051; Dr S. Thilagar, Professor and Head and Dr C. Radhakrishnan, Associate Professor. Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai (Tamil Nadu) 600 007 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in the Department of Clinics, Madras Veterinary College, Chennai. PRA and field study Unstructured interview was conducted and all the details were obtained on the use and methods of ITK. Kumatiplant Experiment Kumati (Colocynthis vulgaris) fruit is rounded, 2-3 cm in diameter, 20-30 g in weight, greenish yellow with white streakes found in village hedges. One fruit can yield 5-10 g of fruit pulp. The fruit pulp is a drastic hydragogue, cathartic contains mixture of alkaloid and citrullol. Neem oil is prepared from vembu or neem (Azadirachta indica) fruits. It is cosmopolitan in distribution. Seen in deciduous forests and also widely cultivated. The oil is extracted from the seeds, oil contains nimbin, nimbidine, limonoids and catechin. Maggot wounds are caused by certain flies, which feed on damaged tissues and lay eggs, which subsequently pupate to larva and adult fly (fig. 2). Four groups each comprising of 6 animals with maggot wounds were constituted and given following treatments. Group I: Animals having maggot wounds were treated by applying turpentine oil only (presently practised) till the larvicidal effect is achieved. Group II: Animals were studied by applying Kumatifruit pulp of kumati fruit only on the maggot wounds as followed in Group I. Group III: Animals having maggot wounds were treated with neem oil only.