 In this article we will discuss about the good agricultural practices for orchids that can make orchid cultivation as a potted plant easier and help the growers to overcome the difficulties faced during growing orchids. Technology O RCHIDS generally require good aeration for their roots, at the same time, scarcity of water will hamper the growth and vigour of the plant. So someone growing orchids should be careful about providing good aeration to the orchid rots and at the same time sufficient moisture. For that, orchid growing media need to be porous with good water holding capacity. ICAR-NRCO recommend brick piece/stone, leaf mould, coconut husk and semi rotten logs in the ratio of 1:1:1:1 for potting of orchids. They supply proper aeration, and will retain good quantity of moisture. Thus help proliferation of roots and support the plant to stand erect. With this combination repotting will be done once in every two years. Potting comprises of two parts, viz. Unpotting the plant from the old container and grooming the plant; Re-potting the plant and staking it if necessary. Unpotting the plant from the old container and repotting 1. Water the plant first as it makes it easier to remove the old potting material. 2. Retrieve the plant from the pot and remove all the old potting material. 3. Trim dead roots with sterilized shears or scissors. 4. Repot the plant. Potting monopodial orchids In contrast to horizontally growing sympodial orchids, monopodial orchids grow vertically. These types of orchids have a single main stem that produces a series of leaves; leaves grow alternately on either side of the stem, like Vanda. 1. Orchid roots will be placed in the pot. The plastic pot size should be just large enough to accommodate the roots. To use a clay pot, use a one size larger pot than the plastic pot, a little more to use clay orchid pot. 2. The plant will be centred and held in the pot, so that the junction of roots and lower leaves flush on the top of the pot. 3. For best results potting media will be well moist (but not dripping wet). 4. When done the base of the plant should be just a little higher so that leaves do not touch the potting media and the top of the roots are just a little bit exposed. 5. Yellow, shrivelled leaves and parts of leaves with spots need to be removed. 6. If necessary, the plants should be staked so that it does not wobble. 7. After two to three months, the stakes should be removed without disturbing the plant. Cultivated orchids in pots March–April 2021 21 Potting sympodial orchids These orchids have a rhizome (main stem) at the base (usually horizontal, at least when they are grown in pots), with a series of growths developing upward from it. On some sympodial orchids such as Cymbidiums, Jumeleas, Paphiopedilum, Phragmipedium, etc., the new growths will be very close to the base of the old growth(s), forming sort of a circle around the older growths.