 Rebuilding India by making it self- reliant will be a critical task for India, since being the nation with the world’s second-largest population size, where more than 65% of the population encompasses the rural Indians. As the food production sectors are the backbone of the nation, strengthening the sectors like agriculture, animal husbandry and fisheries would have their pivotal roles to play to achieve the targets of Aatma Nirbhar Bharat in the coming years. Over the years, fisheries and aquaculture have evolved from an informal and fragmented sector, to become a pivotal engine of the Indian Nirbhar Bharat Package at an estimated investment of ` 20,050 crores in order to drive sustainable and responsible development of the sector while ensuring socio-economic welfare of fishers, fish farmers, fish workers and fish vendors. PMMSY, with the highest ever investment in the history of the fisheries sector, will be implemented in all States and Union Territories over a period of 5 years, from 2020-21 to 2024-25 as an ‘umbrella scheme’. Further, the scheme intends to promote focused fisheries development in strategic areas such as Jammu and Kashmir, Ladakh, North-East Region and Aspirational Districts by identifying community needs, leveraging local knowledge and building on area- specific strengths and capabilities. In an endeavour to consolidate the fisheries’ sectoral gains and boost economic growth, PMMSY sets out ambitious goals for the next five years which include increasing fish production up to 220 lakh tonnes, increasing aquaculture productivity from the current national average of 3-5 tonnes per ha, doubling exports from ` 46,589 crores (2018-19) to Indian Farming November 2020 55 areas. It is estimated that, if the number of aquarium hobbyists in the country could be raised to approximately 3% of the urban households from the current level of 1.25% by 2025, the domestic aquarium trade can be raised manifold. As far as the aquarium industry is concerned, the ornamental fish contributes only about 20% to total domestic aquarium trade in India. It is mainly the aquarium and aquarium accessories that constitutes about 63% to domestic aquarium trade. But, the major requirement of aquarium accessories (about 90%) is met through imports. The Government of India has recognized that, technological advancements in indigenous ornamental fish breeding and the accessories manufacturing sector and financial support to small and medium scale units in the country, could potentially scale up the production of quality offspring’s combatable to trade and bring in more indigenous units of aquarium accessory manufacturing in the country. The intervention will result in a significant reduction in import of high value ornamental fishes as well as aquarium accessories and there by achieving self-reliance in the sector.