 Commercialization and availability l The technology has been validated and the product is ready for commercialization. l The products will be marketed as functional food, promoting digestive health. 17. CIFTEQ® Seaweed Dietary Fibre Compiled by: Jesmi Debbarma, P. Viji, B. Madhusudana Rao and L. N. Murthy Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Gracilaria edulis 20 CIFTEQ® Seaweed edible sachet About the product l Seaweeds are rich in proteins, dietary fibre, polysaccharides, vitamins, minerals as well as important bioactive compounds. The edible and biodegradable sachet/film developed from seaweed is a novel food packaging solution. l Seaweeds such as Kappaphycus alvarezii and Ulva reticulata are essential bio- resources for phycocolloids extraction. l A technology has been developed for the preparation of edible and functional sachet using these seaweeds. l The sachets are developed by film casting method. The film-forming solution is obtained by dissolving seaweed powder of U. reticulata and K. alvarezii, and sodium alginate along with sorbitol as the plasticizer. The homogenized solution is finally cast as a film. l Seaweed-based functional and edible films exhibit good sealing and antioxidant properties. Therefore the novel packaging material can be used as soluble sachets/ pouches/bags for seasonings in instant noodles, and for packing instant coffee/ tea, etc. in the food industry. l The seaweed-based packaging sachet adds up the nutritional and functional value of the food product by acting as an antioxidant and antimicrobial agent, thereby improving the quality and pres- ervation of food. l The technology is intended to reduce the use of plastic in ready to eat food packaging, thereby reducing solid waste generation. Commercialization and availability l The technology has been validated and the product is ready for commercialization. 18. CIFTEQ® Seaweed Edible Sachet Compiled by: Jesmi Debbarma, P. Viji, B. Madhusudana Rao and S. Sreejith Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Ulva reticulata Kappaphycus alvarezii 21 Packaging material About the product l Majority of the modern-day packaging materials are composed of fossil-based polymers which are hazardous for the environment. l Biopolymers provide an excellent alternative material to petroleum-derived polymers, being ecofriendly, non-toxic and renewable. l Though biopolymer-based films can be prepared from proteins, carbohydrates and lipids, carbohydrate-based films are the most preferred because of their colloidal properties and better film-forming ability.