 The roots of chhatodi bearing white flowers are useful for curing this disease (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Dodia (1998) 178 Treatment for haemorrhage in bullocks This remedy is particularly meant for bullocks. Bleeding occurs in these animals when they are wounded or in pain. This happens particularly to bullocks because they are used as beasts of burden. The shoulder region bears the brunt of the load. The cure is as follows. Mix equal quantities of leaves of aval (Cassia auriculata) and goat droppings throughly. Add a small amount of water to get a paste-like consistency by grinding with a stone. This paste is used as a dressing and the clot is bandaged. One has to be careful that the dressing does not move away from the point of the clot or injury. The only disadvantage of this remedy is that it cannot be used for injuries on the stomach or hooves/feet of the animal (Baroda, Gujarat). Singh (1999) 179 Treatment for prolapse of uterus Many a time, cows and buffaloes are in danger of prolapsed uterus. The danger increases with the approach of delivery time. Manabhai has come up with a method using onions to avert this problem. When an animal has suffered from prolapse of the uterus in the past, it is given ten kg onion to eat when it is not carrying. This prevents prolapse at delivery time (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Rathod (1999) 180 Cure for naval infection in calves Most of the naval infections in calves occur due to lack of hygine. Leaves of tanderja (Amaranthus spinosus) are used for curing such infection. The infection causes pus formation in the naval region. Approximately 50 ml of juice is taken out of the leaves of tanderja. This is then mixed with 50 g of jaggery and gently warmed. The paste is then applied on the naval region and bandaged. It is continued for three days with two dressings a day (Junagadh, Gujarat). Solanki (1999) 215 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 181 Medicinal uses of Pennisetum graveolens, syn. P.typhoides, P.typhoideum Plant, seeds have albuminoids, minerals, used as principle food. Cooked grains are fed after parturition in animals for increasing milk (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 182 Medicinal uses of Phoenix sylvestris Root, flowers, fruit, fresh juice of Phoenix sylvestris contain alcohol and carbohydrate and are used for tonic, restorative, astringent, toddy preparation, euphoratic, stimulant, depressant, narcotic, toothache and nervous disability. Parabia et al. (2000) 183 Medicinal uses of Peucedanum graveolens, syn.Anethum graveolens, A.sowa Seed and oil of Peucedanum graveolens contain volatile oil, anethine, phellandrine, apiol and D-lemonine and are used as carminative, stomachic, aromatic, stimulant, diuretic, resolvant, emmenagogue, galactagogue, abortifacient. Parabia et al. (2000) 184 Medicinal uses of Phyllanthus emblica, syn.