 • Establishment of nurseries/ pig breeding units/ fish & poultry hatchery involving youth • Construction of check dams, irrigation channels, micro water harvesting structures (Jalkund), sprinkler and drip irrigation etc • Group farming by SHGs/ FPOs/ Co-operatives for promotion of double/triple cropping Strategy II: Reduction of Cost of Cultivation Action points: • Mechanization with small farm implements through custom hiring approach • Mission mode production of enriched FYM, Vermicompost and bio- fertilizers/ pesticides. • Promotion of mulching (bio or degradable plastic) in crops • Promotion of Drip/ Sprinkler irrigation in crops • Introduction of Zero/ Minimum tillage for double/ triple cropping Strategy III: Reducing Post Harvest loss and enhancing marketability Action points: • Awareness for harvesting of crops at appropriate maturity based on use. • Establishment of pack house and cold storage facilities in production belt. • Establishment of cluster based common processing / storage facility with branding. 375 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 • Establishing FPOs for direct marketing through contract farming. • Establishment of primary and secondary market in district/ block level linked with e NAM in a phased manner. • Linking growers with business house like Patanjali, Dabor etc at national/ international level. Strategy IV: Off Farm Income and Enhancing Knowledge & Skills Action points: • Skill development in machinery repairing, handicraft, Knitting & embroidery, bee keeping, Retail marketing of field produces, container gardening, organic input seed production including seeds and planting materials. • Promotion of small scale enterprises like pickle making, jam/jelly making, spice processing &packaging, mushroom production, homemade value added products (candy, slices, papad, potato & tapioca chips, biscuits), Waste utilization etc • Capacity development programme for School drop outs/ educated youth/ SHGs for commercial farming, IIFS and value addition etc. Strategy V: Enabling Policies for Doubling Farmers Income Action points: • Introduction of agriculture as one of the subjects in school education • Designing programmes for popularization of Integrated farming system • Community based approach for mode of production and process of production • Assured institutional support to small and marginal farmers with minimum interest. • Implementable policies for controlling wild animal/ free grazing in agricultural areas. • Legislation for appropriate convergence among Departments relating to Agriculture Potential contribution to farmers income and strategy for scaling out these technology The above mentioned strategies and action need to be implemented in a more planed and systematic way by bringing more area under cultivation in different crops and focused programmes for livestock and fishery development.