 This is not limited to any one religion or culture. Nowadays the material demands of the people are increasing but the resources are not much and time is limited. All want to do more in lesser time that leads to stress. Stress can be from any event or thought that makes you frustrated, angry or nervous. When stress lasts for a long time, it may harm your health. Human body reacts to stress by releasing hormones. The hormones make your brain more alert, cause tension in the muscles and increase the pulse rate and when have chronic stress, the body stays alert, even though there is no danger. Over time, this leads to health problems high blood pressure, heart disease, diabetes, obesity, depression or anxiety. To reduce stress, we can increase the strength by doing pranayama/ meditation. Originally meditation was meant to help deepen understanding of the sacred and mystical forces of the life. These days, meditation has been commonly used for relaxation and for stress reduction. During meditation, the focus is in eliminating the stream of jumbled thoughts that crowd the mind and cause stress. One can practice meditation wherever one is while walking, riding bus, waiting at doctor’s Gurudev Sri Sri Ravi Shankar ji is a Global Ambassador of peace. He has established Art of Living organization and millions of people are being benefitted from his talks and from his centres of Transcendental Meditation and Ayurveda. 164 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series office or even in the middle of a difficult business meeting. Meditation can give one a sense of calm, peace and balance that can benefit both your emotional well-being and overall health. The Art of Living organization is working across 156 countries and over 450 million people are being benefitted from this. The term ‘art-of-living’ refers to enhancement in capabilities for leading a good life. They have various courses — happiness programme, advanced courses, blessing courses, Utkarsh yoga Sudarshan kriya etc. Sri Sri Ravi Shanker emphasized that India is the country of Rishi Krishi; in ancient times all the rishis were farmers and all the farmers were rishi. But presently many farmers are committing suicides. Use of organic and natural farming may improve soil health and by adopting integrated farming, farmers’ income can be increased. Need of the hour is to attract more youth towards agriculture. He also pointed out that India is the only country which gave Ayurveda and Yoga to the whole world. Key takeaways Instil in all faiths in goodness of the society and also in one’s ability and faith in one’s power. Each and every one should follow 10 minutes of yoga, 10 minutes of pranayama and 5-7 minutes of Sudarshan kriya for one's overall development. 165 Health and Good Living HIMALAYAN MEDITATION H.H. Shree Shivkrupanand Swami Swami ji being born in a religious Maharashtrian family was inclined towards the understanding of the existence of God.