 In order to emphasize the village-centric interventions, the agricultural researchers during their Foundation Course, before starting their professional career, spend one month in different villages across the country and learn the basic tenets of village dynamics and bottom-up approach for research. The contemporary interdisciplinary research in agriculture sector revolves around the Gandhian philosophy of participatory and inclusive agriculture research. 3.2. Revival of Textile Industry Indian textile story is a successful case of reaching the global markets by artisanal industries, which were so widely dispersed and deeply rooted in Indian cultural ethos and traditional or ancestral skills. Gandhiji emphasized that “the village should produce food-crops and cotton in order to meet its requirements”. His push to spinning has to be seen in this historic context. India’s share of the world economy was 23% at the beginning of the eighteenth century, which shrank to about 3% by the time the British rulers departed from India. The industrial revolution of Britain had been mainly founded by destroying many of India’s manufacturing industries, which were flourishing then. Textile was a classic case of structural destruction by the British, which represents the first great de-industrialization of the modern world. India had about 25% share of the global textiles trade during early eighteenth century. The industry was systematically damaged by cutting off export markets, the introduction of modern techniques, and many ruthless measures, which led Lord William Bentinck to remark – “the bones of the cotton weavers were bleaching the plains of India” (Tharoor 2016). Gandhiji believed that re-introduction of spinning in the homes of villages would help save millions from starvation (Gandhi 1920). Spinning wheel, the foremost artefacts of Gandhian propaganda represented different values like economic self-sufficiency, mastery over machinery and harmony between the rich and the poor (Parel 1969). Reviving the weaving and spinning skills is fundamental to develop a village-centric economy. ICAR has two research institutions on cotton, one with the focus to develop farm technologies 137 to enhance cotton production (ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research) and another with focus on cotton technology (ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology). Till the time India got independence in 1947, diploid Asiatic cottons (Gossypium arboreum, G. herbaceum), which were suitable for marginal and rainfed area owing to their tolerance to drought, pests and diseases, were under cultivation in over 97% of the cotton grown areas. However, the traditional Asiatic cotton cultivars were considered as low yielders and of poor fibre quality. Development of the high yielding upland cotton varieties (G.