 Symptoms nearly disappeared in the treatments T 3 and T4. All the treatments performed better than the ITK. The symptoms increased in the control plot. Yield obtained was higher in case of treatment with zinc spray (Table 7). CONCLUSION It was observed in the on-farm trials that the recommended practice of zinc application performed better than the ITK, with regard to management of khaira disease as well as yield. Performance of ITK and the control was similar.  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT Code : 702 Title of the ITK : Herbal pesticides for control of insect pests in wheat and rice crop Description of the ITK : Wheat and rice are infested by a number of pests.Use of herbal pesticide minimizes the attack of insect pest on paddy. This herbal pesticide is prepared by mixing cow urine, nirgandi (Vitex negundo) leaves and hing (asafoetida). This mixture in appropriate proportion is considered effective bio-pesticide for wheat/rice pests. It contains certain ingredients having insecticidal as well as insect- repellant property, which makes it useful for control of insect pests of paddy crop. The leaves of nirgandi ( Vitex negundo) are boiled in water (about 30–40 leaves in 10 litres water) till condensed to one liters. About 10 g asafoetida is then mixed in it. These ingredients are mixed in about 5 litres cow urine. This mixture is then filtered and used (sprayed) as bio–pesticide over affected crops. This spray is effective for all sowing seasons i.e. early sowing, normal or late sowing seasons of the crops. This ITK has been practised in Theog area of Shimla district, Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Now-a-days only cash crops such as cabbage, cauliflower, tomato etc. are grown in this area,with declining acreage under paddy. Name and address of the discloser: Shri Rajinder Rajan, Rajan Tyre Service, Theog, Tehsil Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 Location of use of the ITK : This ITK was prevalent in Theog area of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. This area forms a part of high hills temperate wet Himalayan region and lies between the longitudes 77° - 0" and 78° - 19" east and latitudes 30° - 45" and 31° - 44". This zone is physio-graphically a mountainous trait. Farming is done under rainfed conditions in terraces. Soils are shallow, silt and loam in texture and acidic in nature. This zone at present contributes to about 96% of the total temperate fruit production. Apple is the most pre-dominant fruit grown in the zone. Experimenter : Dr L.R.