 Tetradecanoic acid, 1,2-Dimethylcyclopentane, etc. in the flour. 2-Propenal, Hexadecanol, Propanoate and Octadecanoic acid are recommended as potential volatile markers for analysing the rancidity in pearl millet flour. The VOCs generated indicate the four most significant metabolic pathways, i.e. fatty acid, cutin, suberine and wax biosynthesis pathways. Epigenomics of phosphorus use efficiency in rice: Whole methylome analysis of a pair of contrasting rice genotypes [Pusa 44 (P deficiency sensitive) and NIL 23 (P deficiency tolerant)] in different contexts indicated that CG methylation comprised the highest percentage (54%) of differentially methylated cytosine (DmCs) in both leaf and root tissues, followed by methylation at CHG (~24%) and CHG (~6%) contexts. Allocation of DmCs to genomic regions revealed ~77% of DmCs in upstream, ~6% in gene body and ~17% mapped to downstream region. Context-specific analysis of methylome data revealed a major change in methylation to occur in leaf tissue of NIL-23 in CG context with increase in methylation. In roots of the P-deficiency tolerant (NIL-23) genotype, no significant change was observed in any of the (CG, CHG, and CHH) contexts, but a decrease in methylation was observed in all three contexts in P deficiency sensitive genotype (Pusa 44). Physico-chemical analysis of aged rice for improved quality traits: Viscosity profiling, texture analysis and matrix interaction analysis of freshly harvested Basmati (PB 1121 and PB 1509 ) and Non- basmati (BPT 5204 and Swarna ) rice varieties were compared with one year aged (06 and 12 months stored) rice grain. Further, the confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) images of the cooked rice slurry revealed that Correlation between DNA methylation (in CHH context) and gene expression at variety level in the contrasting rice genotypes, (A) in shoot, and (B) in root. Plants were grown hydroponically with 0 ppm Pi or 16 ppm Pi for 45 days. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 36 matrix component interaction was more in 6 and 12 month aged samples of all the rice varieties (PB-1121, PB-1509, BPT-5204 and Swarna) as compared to freshly harvested rice. Protein and lipid interact with starch by being embedded within the internal starch matrix. Identification of candidate genes and markers for early flowering and determinacy in pigeonpea: Pigeonpea (Cajanus cajan), is a highly nutritious grain legume. The duration of cultivated pigeonpea ranges from 5 to 8 months. Early flowering and determinacy are desirable traits in pigeonpea as early maturity allows crop rotation and facilitates mechanical harvesting. QTLs responsible for early flowering and determinacy traits in pigeonpea were mapped in a mapping population derived from the cross ICPL 20338 × Malvi 3. The QTL-Seq analysis of the 4 bulks for DTF (days to flowering) and DT (determinacy) led to the identification of overlapping QTL regions for both the traits on chromosome 3. The genomic region was narrowed down to 87 genes.