 Attracting young talent to agricultural education In order to attract talent in higher agricultural education and research, an innovative ASPIRE Scholarship programme is being recommended. This will attract 10+2 pass outs from colleges to go for higher agricultural education and enable them to face the emerging challenges of agriculture and food security in an imaginative and business like way. The scheme aims to offer 2500 scholarships every year to talented youth in the age group 17-22 years, for undertaking Bachelor and Masters level education in agriculture and allied Sciences with following Criteria for Eligibility for ASPIRE Scholarships: a. Based on Performance in Board Examinations: The candidates should have obtained aggregate marks in the top 2% in the Board examination at XII levels. b. Based on Performance in Competitive Examinations: Performance within the top 10,000 ranks in Joint Entrance Examination of IIT, AIEEE (Engineering) and top 5000 in CBSE medical examination and joining degree level courses in Agriculture or allied sciences in ICAR-AU system. c. Value and Type of Support: Eligible candidates will receive annually scholarship @ total value Rs. 120,000 per candidate. The cash value payable to the ASPIRE scholarship holder is Rs. 90,000 per annum. A summer time attachment fee of Rs. 30,000 will be paid to the mentoring institution for undertaking summer time project. d. Duration of the Support: Selected candidates will be supported for a maximum period of six years starting 1st year course in agriculture and allied science, except Veterinary Science for which the maximum duration may be 7 years, and integrated course leading to Masters degree or the completion of the course, whichever is earlier. 2.7.2. Institutional Development 2.7.2.1. Promotion of academic excellence in critical/emerging areas 2.7.2.1.1. Faculty development Quality of education in most of the universities is adversely affected due to shortage of faculty, little opportunities for faculty development and aging/superannuating faculty. Only 65% of the sanctioned faculty strength remains filled and over 50% universities have over 30% vacant faculty positions. Average age of teaching faculty is around 50 years or higher. Out of tune, outdated and old faculty restricts creative and forward looking innovative ideas on improving the content, context and pedagogy of education. 16 In order to boost teaching and learning in the emerging themes of science and technology, teachers need continuous encouragement and assistance to improve their competence in relevant subject areas. Two types of training of teachers, in India and abroad, are considered: (i) relatively of longer duration (3 to 6 months) in priority theme areas and (ii) continuing life-long learning in the form of refresher courses of shorter duration (20 to 30 days) in educational technology and the subject domain of a teacher’s expertise. 2.7.2.1.1.1.