 India’s strategy revolves around diversifying energy sources, promoting domestic production, and bolstering infrastructure. Reducing reliance on foreign energy imports enhances energy security and minimises market ﬂuctua- tions. While there are several issues on the demand side, supply-side problems include inefﬁcient energy guidelines, foreign energy dependence, and reliance on non-renewable fuels. To address demand-side challenges, GOI launched the National Mission for Enhanced Energy Efﬁciency (NMEEE) in 20119, consisting of four key policies: PAT, MTEE, EEFP and FEEED. These policies encourage industries to meet energy efﬁ- ciency targets, introduce energy-efﬁcient technologies, facili- tate energy project ﬁnancing, and promote economic development through energy efﬁciency. Other demand-side policies, such as the Energy Conservation Building Code (ECBC), have led to a decrease in energy consumption in the infrastructure sector. Supply-side initiatives included the Revamped Distribution Sector Scheme (RDSS) to modernise energy distribution and reduce losses. The National Green Hydrogen Mission (NGHM) aims to decrease energy imports and boost domestic production, while RE targets and initiatives like the 175 GW RE and Pradhan Mantri Kisan Urja Suraksha Evam Utthaan Mahabhiyan (PM KUSUM) promote clean energy adop- tion. These comprehensive strategies are positioned to address India’s energy challenges, as shown in Figure 2. Demand-side policies GOI introduced the Perform, Achieve, and Trade (PAT) pro- gram10 to boost energy efﬁciency in energy-intensive sectors in 2012. Designated consumers (DCs) are incentivised to achieve energy efﬁciency targets and earn energy-saving certiﬁcates (ESCerts) for surpassing them. PAT directly reduces energy consumption, differentiating it from the EU Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS), which focuses on emission quotas. PAT’s efﬁciency-driven approach promotes consump- tion reduction, while the EU ETS only sets a minimal carbon reduction threshold, potentially resulting in a limited emis- sions decrease (Dasgupta, der Salm, & Roy, 2016). PAT has effectively reduced carbon emissions by 99 million tons and energy consumption by 22.75 million tons of oil equivalent (MTOE) in its ﬁrst two cycles. Although DCs initially face ﬁnancial burdens, the long- term beneﬁts, including reduced fuel use and ESCert trad- ing, outweigh the costs. PAT fosters innovation and job crea- tion, lowers energy expenses, and improves community well-being. In contrast, the EU ETS has experienced issues like certiﬁcate over-allocation and shifting emission reduc- tion costs to consumers, leading to substantial unearned ﬁrm proﬁts (Laing, Sato, Grubb, & Comberti, 2014). How- ever, the PAT program has its challenges. It lacks comprehen- sive carbon accounting for DCs and clear ﬂoor and ceiling caps on carbon emissions.