 The study recommended that Department of Fertilizer should play a facilitator role for both public and private entities (non-discriminatory) for exploring these approaches. Agricultural input markets in India: Recent policy reforms and ways forward: The study reviewed the policies in three major input sectors: seeds, pesticides and fertilizers. The agriculture input markets in India are undergoing numerous changes in terms of scale of operation, participation, and diversification. Various new policy reforms such as nutrient based subsidy scheme 2010, Neem coated urea 2015, Direct benefit transfer (2017) in fertilizers sector, Price control order of bt-cotton 2015, Seed Bill 2011 (pending) in case of seed sector, and the proposed Pesticide management bill 2008 and Insecticides (Amendment) Draft Rules 2017 in case of pesticides were intended to have greater implications on restructuring the sector. The new policies and regulations were tailored for the changing dynamics in the input sector and were intended to have greater implications on restructuring the sector. The input sectors are governed by different actors and roles. A sector wise discussion on policies, challenges and way forward were analysed. The study concluded that considering the dynamic nature of the sector, policies need to be realigned and reformed in a faster pace. There is a need to strengthen policies to build partnership; public–private partnership, for R&D in case of seed, for quality control in case of pesticides, and for foreign joint ventures in case of fertilizers. Doubling of farmers’ income in India: The Government of India is committed to doubling of farmers’ income (DFI) by 2022 with DFI strategies now under implementation. The committee considered the year 2015–16 as the base year, and extrapolated the average income for that year by using NSSO, 2012–13 farmer income estimates. The next income estimates by NSSO are expected soon. Pending this, ICAR-NIAP estimated the interim growth rates in income for effective monitoring of DFI strategies. The income assessment was done using the seven sources of growth. The real income growth was estimated from 2015–16 to 2018–19. The estimates indicated a positive direction of change. Several initiatives of the Government are seen to be yielding positive results, and the growth momentum can be expected to pick up further. Crop productivity and resource use efficiency were considered to indicate increase in agricultural output per unit of land. Aggregate estimates of crop productivity were obtained as area weighted productivity estimates. Production function approach was followed by using crop productivity as the output variable and considering major farm inputs as the input variables. The elasticity coefficients were obtained based on production function and used for assigning the sub-indicator weights within the major sources of growth. Diversification towards high-value crops is producing encouraging results.