 Analysis of FAOSTAT, 2014 statistics show that Mexico is the top exporter of mango with approximately 17% of the national output. The development of Floridian mango cultivars made it adaptable to broad variety of agro-ecologies and responsible for the growth of additional production regions. Indubitably, when it comes to mango production, Asia has a significant share. The top five nations producing mangoes are from Asia. Additionally, Bangladesh and Philippines are on the list of top 10 countries. Changing varietal preference in International Markets Red-peel cultivars dominate the worldwide mango export market because of their eye-appeal but in Asian nations customers choose the fruits on the basis of total knowledge of the variety. Naturally, this is due to population established preferences for particular local yellow and green colour types. The excellent local cultivars are offered at a premium price but they don’t find place in the international market because of their yellow or yellow green hue even at the ripe stage. Gradually, the situation is changing and yellow skin mangoes are now recognized in the US market because of their quality. ‘Ataulfo’, a yellow coloured variety has garnered increasing attention of customers in the US. At least this variety has played a part in breaking red peel variety preference in the market. This modification may assist in opening way for the outstanding Indian cultivars in the United States, not highly favoured due their yellow or greenish peel. Breeding efforts for creating new mango varieties in India include red peel colour too, as one of the key goals. Thus many of the newly created types are red in colour. A nutritionally rich fruit Mango fruit is rich in carbohydrates, minerals, dietary fibre (pectin), vitamin C, and vitamin A (β-carotene) and several other phytochemicals of mango help to sustain good health. Mango serves as a source of vitamin A for millions living in the world's different sub-tropical, semi-arid, and tropical areas, especially in nations where vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is common. In many countries, mango is distributed in plenty in rural regions of industrialized nations. Mango fruit pulp has very little lipid content and may be regarded as fat free. Seeds are rich in lipids and fatty acids composition is similar with cocoa butter. Mango fat may have an important role in the cosmetics, pharmaceutical and food industries. Mango is a rich source of vital minerals such as calcium, iron, magnesium, phosphorus, potassium, zinc, copper, manganese, and selenium required for human health. The fruits are low in sodium. Store house of bioactive compounds Mango has been related to numerous pharmacological benefits, including, antidiabetic, antioxidant, anti- viral and anti-inflammatory properties.