 Marathwada is also drought prone, with one-third of its area suffering severely from scanty and irregular rainfall. Marathwada receives an average annual rainfall of 825 mm with only 45 days of rainfall during the principal monsoon months i.e., June, July, August, and September (Mandale et al., 2019). Farmers in both Vidarbha and Marathwada re- gions use chemical fertilizers, pesticides and other chemicals for crop productivity, leading to high agriculture and farmers’ vulnerability in these regions. 2.2. Survey data collection Multi-stage sampling was adopted to select the survey sites, which is further followed by random sampling to choose farmers for survey. The sample in the survey site is representative of the geography, socioeco- nomic, and demographic proﬁle of the households. Selection of survey sites was done on the basis of their vulnerability to climate change, which is further followed by random survey of 400 farmers. Site selection was done in three stages. In the ﬁrst stage, we selected two districts namely Buldhana and Parbhani of Vidarbha and Marathwada regions of Maha- rashtra due to their high agricultural vulnerability to climate change, which is reported by Swami and Parthasarathy (2021). In the second stage, we selected the highly agriculturally vulnerable blocks after dis- cussion with the district and block ofﬁcials of the respective districts. In third stage, random selection of villages was done based on their relative distances from each other, demographic characteristics, and socio-economic variability. After selecting the districts and blocks, we randomly selected 400 farming households from 18 villages. Before proceeding for ﬁnal survey of 400 farmers, one pilot survey and one focussed group discussion with various stakeholders including village headmen, panchayat ofﬁcer, block ofﬁcer and group of male and female farmers was done in two villages to validate the questionnaire and study design. Pilot survey of 37 farmers along with one focussed group discussion was carried out in Dhad village Fig. 1. Conceptual framework. D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 3 of Buldhana district, Maharashtra. It helped in providing insights about the type of sustainable practices being followed by the farmers as well as their attitude and perception towards these practices. We also obtained the information about the beneﬁts being availed by them via different policies and schemes such as kisan credit card, subsidies, incentives. Based on the insights from pilot survey and focussed group discussion, survey questionnaire and research questions were further revised. For instance, we initially designed our questionnaire to assess factors such as perceived usefulness, perceived ease of use, and perceived compatibility using a Likert scale ranging from 0 to 5.