 Manibhai Desai later founded the Bharatiya Agro-Industries Foundation (BAIF), which was registered as a Public Trust on August 22, 1967. 3. Gandhian Principles for Milk Co-operative The Gosanwardhan Goras Bhandar, the milk cooperative in Wardha city started by Mahatma Gandhi in 1931, has proved that Gandhiji’s guidelines on how to run the operations helped in running the cooperative successfully. The Gosanwardhan Goras Bhandar is still continuing on the principles of Gandhiji. It offers a robust rate of Rs 36 per litre of milk to dairy farmers. The milk cooperative has formed 15 societies comprising about 1,000 farmers who rear cows. On average, 12,000-13,000 litres of cow milk is collected daily from farmers at a procurement price of Rs. 36 L-1. The milk brought by farmers is never rejected and purchase rate is constant. Operations at the dairy are fully manual, with zero use of machinery. The board of directors believes strongly in the Mahatma’s idea of production by masses and not production for masses. The cooperative doesn’t process milk but provides fresh milk to consumers in Wardha. It prepares goruspak (a sweet cake), ghee, peda, basundi, curd and paneer by order. Here, again, everything is manual, and a furnace, instead of gas stoves, is used for cooking. The cooperative is managed to run based on Gandhiji’s principles and no money is taken from any government. 4. Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Contributions of ICAR The ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cattle (CIRC), Meerut erstwhile known as Project Directorate on Cattle has been implementing the Indigenous Breeds Project (IBP) under the All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Cattle for the conservation and genetic improvement of important indigenous cattle breeds of the country. The project is being operated by establishing germplasm (GP) units and associated herds are data recording units in the native tracts of indigenous breeds are maintained under farm and field conditions in collaboration with the SAUs, State AH Departments and NGO. Under the IBP, initially Hariana and Ongole breeds of cattle were taken up for improvement. The genetic improvement of Ongole cattle was undertaken in collaboration with Livestock Research Station at Lam under Shri Venketeshwara Veterinary University (SVVU), Andhra Pradesh from 1988 to March 2014 and 73 bulls were evaluated through field progeny testing (FPT). A total of 1.85 lakhs of frozen semen doses were supplied to farmers. Draft studies were also undertaken on Ongole animals by using Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 30 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR single harness plough with digital dynamometer. The breed is suitable for draught work and its draught power varied from 0.60 to 0.72 HP among the bull Genetic improvement of Hariana cattle was undertaken in collaboration with the CCS Haryana Agriculture University, Hisar (1989 to 2009).