 In order to increase awareness about agricultural education, it was strongly suggested that ICAR conduct seminars, workshops and other engagement activities in schools involving parents, students and teachers to showcase the changing face of agriculture across the country. This will help to spark children's interest in agriculture. Schools can implement unique, customised programs for students to promote/increase awareness about agriculture. Schools should leverage upon the large network of agricultural universities and other agricultural facilities across India and introduce outdoor activities for students such as nature walks a, field trips to farms and agri-communities and plan special visits during summer and winter holidays. In contrast to science disciplines, agricultural curriculum should be 70% practical + 30% theoretical. ICAR could make a portal for students which will describe career option, fee, scope, sources, institutions, and reflection should be there in curriculum framework. Introduction should be make for internships in educational research and real- world training as choices for undergraduates' professional growth. Training sessions to help develop agricultural skills for entrepreneurship in agriculture can be helpful as well. All participants appreciated the organization of the brainstorming session and showed keen interest in adopting the outcome of deliberations in their respective organzations/institutes. In order to move forward, ICAR will be organizing state level brainstorming sessions to discuss curriculum level changes, define credit system for secondary and senior secondary schools. Through this initiative of ICAR, it is hoped to strengthen capacity development of young talent in our country in the agri-sector, and make India truly “Atmanirbhar”. 1National Coordinator, NAHEP, icar, kab-ii, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Email: anuradha.agrawal@icar.gov.in 2Deputy Director General (Agricultural Education) and National Director NAHEP, icar, kab-ii, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Email: ddg.edu@icar.gov.in 70 T he Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) is the premier institute for agricultural research, education and extension in the Country. It was established as the Imperial Agricultural Research Institute at Pusa in Darbhanga, in 1905. Following a massive earthquake which damaged the Institute at Pusa, IARI was shifted to Delhi in 1936. The Institute was renamed as Indian Agricultural Research Institute, post-independence. Currently IARI has 20 Divisions, 5 multi-disciplinary Centres situated in Delhi, 8 Regional Stations and 2 Off-season Nurseries across India. IARI, the Seat of Green Revolution and Sustainable Food Security IARI has provided human resources and technologies to bring about a radical transformation of Indian agriculture.