 Composition of the Board 51 The following will be the composition of the Board 1. Chairman 2. Vice-Chairman 3. Three Vice-Chancellors ofSAUs 4. Two eminent Agricultural/Animal/ Social Scentists 5. Two members representing Agriculture/Industry 6. Secretary, UGC 7. Secretary, AICTE 8. Secretary, Veterinary Council of India 9. One Director from ICAR Deemed Director-General, ICAR Deputy Director-General (Edn), ICAR To be nominated by the Secretary, DARE and Diretor-General, ICAR* To be nominated by the Secretary, DARE and Director-General, ICAR* To be nominated by the Secretary, DARE, and Director-General, ICAR* Ex-Offlcio Ex-Offlcio Ex-Officio To be nominated by the ICAR from Directors of Deemed Universities* ADG (Accreditation Board) University 10. Secretary (full-time) In accordance with the directive of the then Agriculture Minister/President, ICAR Society, the Director-General ICAR will continue to suggest a panel of names to the Hon'ble Agricultural Minister/President, ICAR Society for his approval. Sectoral Committees of the Board The Board will be assisted by the following Committees of Experts 1. Committee on norms, new universities/colleges/programmes 2. Committee on curriculum and equivalence 3. Committee on governance/personnel/financial policies In addition to the above, the Board may also constitute any special committee for specialised work/assignment. One third of the nominated Members will retire every year in order to provide continuity. Functions 52 The following will be the functions of the Board: 1. To advise the Council in evolving the norms and standards for accreditation of institutions and programmes of Agricultural Education including Veterinary Sciences and Agricultural Engineering. 2. To assist the Council for the matters pertaining to approval, recognition, inspection and funding of institutions of Agricultural Education. * Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 67th Annual General Meeting held on 9th March. 1996 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Education vide letter No. 6 (10J/193 - CSC dated 11.7.2000 20 3. Evaluate the academic programme and the institutional set up in which these programmes are conducted. 4. To periodically assess the curricula of various degree programmes offered by the State Agricultural Universities and other approved institutions and suggest modifications, if required. 5. To oecide the equivalence of qualifications. 6. To lay down Norms and Standards of courses, curricula, instructional facilities, teaching staff qualifications, requirements of admission etc. and if warranted de-recognise degree/institution. 7. To provide guidance on University governance, personnel and financial policies etc. The Board will be supported by necessary scientific, technical and administrative staff. Secretariat of the Board An independent Secretariat directly responsible to the Director-General, ICAR, with full- time Secretary of .