 The data provided in this article shares the information of complete genome sequencing conducted using Illumina Nextseq, and also several other details, such as the presence of multi-drug-resistance genes, SNPs and InDels. The bacterial isolate which exhibited a high resistance to a set of four commonly used antibiotics was selected for whole genome sequencing, in order to determine the genes responsible for the occurrence of resistance in them. The sequence of this isolate was further analysed using bioinformatics tool to determine the presence of different types of genes and to ﬁnd out their functions. Fig. 1 represents the pathway followed while carrying-out the full experiment. First of all, raw reads were obtained, and then with the help of trimmomatic tool [3] , these raw reads were ﬁltered and High Quality (HQ) reads were obtained. With the help of Burrows Wheeler transform (BWA) tool [4] , mapping of the contigs to a reference genome ( Klebsiella aerogenes KCTC 2190) was carried out. The Sequence Alignment or Map formation was done using SAM tools mpileup [5] , and consensus sequence was obtained. GC content was identiﬁed and by us- ing Bedtools [6] , gene identiﬁcation was carried out. The sequence was subjected to annotation and then submitted to NCBI portal. The antibiotic resistance genes were identiﬁed using ARDB database [7] . The sequenced raw data was processed to obtain high quality clean reads using Trimmomatic (v 0.38) to remove adapter sequences, ambiguous reads (reads with unknown nucleotides- “N” larger than 5%), and low-quality sequences (reads with more than 10% quality threshold (QV) < 20 phred score). Parameters considered for ﬁltration included: (a) adapter trimming; (b) min- imum length threshold of 100 bp; (c) sliding window trimming of 10 bp, cutting once if the average quality within the window fell below a threshold of 20; (d) leading: cutting bases off 4 A. Mann, S. Malik and J.S. Rana et al. / Data in Brief 38 (2021) 107311 Fig. 1. Schematic representation of the steps involved in the whole genome sequencing and bioinformatic analysis of Klebsiella aerogenes genome. Table 1 High quality data statistics of Klebsiella aerogenes genome. Sample Name/Consensus sequence Klebsiella aerogenes Number of paired end (PE) reads 5,071,737 Total number of bases 1,505,053,235 Length of the consensus sequence 5.27 Mb GC content 50.64% Mapping percentage 91.04% Genome coverage 90.47% Number of sequence 1 Reference organism Klebsiella aerogenes KCTC 2190 Total genome length of the reference genome 5.28 Mb Reference genome link https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/genome/3417?genome _ assembly _ id=173101 the start of a read, if below a threshold quality of 20; (e) trailing: cutting bases off the end of a read, if below a threshold quality of 20. The high quality reads of the sample were aligned to the reference genome using BWA MEM (version 0.7.17). Respective consensus sequence was extracted using SAM tools mpileup.