 As freshwater resources continue to decrease while the demand for food increases, reclaimed wastewater is being increasingly utilized as alternative irrigation water source due to its capacity to sustain food production and farm income, besides increasing resilience to climate change. In India as sizeable gap exists between wastewater generation and treatment capacity, substantial funding would be necessary to bridge this gap and thereby generate reclaimed wastewaters through expensive, conventional wastewater treatment technologies. In view of the limited sustainability of the conventional wastewater treatment technologies and the financial resources available with the Government, Indian Agricultural Research Institute has developed an innovative eco-friendly wastewater treatment technology named JalopcharTM which can provide an effective and scalable low-cost solution for decentralized wastewater treatment. I thank Indian Council of Agricultural Research for bringing out this success story and congratulate the author for her untiring efforts in the development and replication of the technology. I hope this success story would provide very useful information to the stakeholders for adopting an inexpensive, effective and sustainable way of wastewater treatment for its safe reuse in agriculture and for improving sanitation and health of diverse eco-systems. Dated the 22nd September, 2020 Ashok Kumar Singh New Delhi MkW- v'kksd dqekj flag funs'kd Dr. Ashok Kumar Singh Director Hkk-Ñ-v-i-µHkkjrh; Ñf"k vuqla/kku laLFkku ubZ fnYyhµ110012 ¼Hkkjr½ ICAR - INDIAN AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH INSTITUTE (A DEEMED TO BE UNIVERSITY UNDER SECTION 3 OF UGC ACT, 1956) NEW DELHI - 110012 (INDIA)  PREFACE Majority of the river basins in India are experiencing moderate to severe water shortages. Over-exploitation of groundwater, which accounts for around 58% of the total irrigated area in the country, is a major concern. Tanks and wells are increasingly going dry and getting contaminated due to unscientific water harnessing, and water conflicts are increasing. Rivers are also drying up and increasingly declinging in their quality profile due to mixing of domestic and industrial wastewater effluents. As per the latest estimates, the global burden of fresh water pullution due to wastewater is up to 12,000 km3. Under water scarce conditions, wastewater/low quality water is emerging as potential non-conventional source of water for demand management. Keeping the aforementioned facts in view, I am of the view that the presented sucess story on JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly wastewater treatment technology, would go a long way to facilitate further dissemination and adoption of the technology by a range of stakeholders.