 Roll out of Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) in Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare as per the guidelines of M/o Finance. 10. Accounting information and data are also provided to the Divisional Heads, Financial Adviser and Chief Accounting Authority to facilitate effective budgetary and financial control. Monthly and progressive expenditure figures under various sub-heads/object-heads of the grant of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare are provided to Budget Section of the Ministry. Progress of expenditure against budget provisions are also submitted to Secretary, Financial Adviser as well as Heads of Divisions of the Ministry controlling the grant for purposes of better monitoring of expenditure. 11. The Accounting organization also maintains accounts of long-term advances such as House Building Advance and Motor Car Advance and GPF accounts of employees of the Ministry. 12. The verification and authorization of Pensionary entitlement of officers and staff members is done by the Pay & Accounts Offices on the basis of service particulars and pension papers furnished by the Heads of Offices. All retirement benefits and payments like gratuity, cash equivalent to leave salary, as well as payments under Central Government Employees Group Insurance Scheme; General Provident Fund etc. are released by PAOs office on receipt of relevant information / bills from DDOs. 13. INTERNAL AUDIT WING: The Internal Audit Wing carries out audit of accounts of various offices of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare to ensure that rules, regulations and procedures prescribed by the government are adhered to by these offices in their day to day functioning. 13.1 Internal Auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization’s operations. It basically aims at helping the organization to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. It is also an effective tool for providing objective assurance and advice that adds values, influence change that enhances governance, assist risk management and control processes and improve accountability for results. It also provides valuable information to rectify the procedural mistakes and deficiencies and, thus, acts as an aid to the management. The periodicity of audit of a unit is regulated by its nature and volume of work and quantum of funds. 13.2 Internal audit and audit by C&AG are complementary in nature and taking into account the overall framework of accountability, both internal audit and external audit have their own roles to perform. In fact, internal audit is considered as an effective tool for reinforcing and improving managerial performance.