 YS Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, RHRSS / Krishi Vigyan Kendra Lahaul & Spiti II at Tabo, Tabo, Himachal Pradesh. *Corresponding author email: sumitvashisth_hpau@yahoo.co.in a. Jute bag used as burlap by farmers to trap larvae; b. Application of insecticide by farmer against Indian gypsy moth a b Attention Readers The ICAR brings out a number of publications on Agriculture, Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Fisheries and its allied subjects. To project its publications among students, research scholars, extension workers, scientists and faculty members, the Business Unit of the Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) of the ICAR arranges Book Exhibitions in the campuses of the Agricultural Universities. If you want to hold a Book Exhibition, you may send your request through your Department Head/Dean to the Business Manager of the ICAR, preferably 1 month in advance, so that a good Book Exhibition could be arranged in time. The students can avail a handsome discount on the ICAR publications including journals. For further details, contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012. Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com May–June 2023 45 B RINJAL (Solanum melongena L.) is one of the commercially important vegetable crop grown round the year in our country. The area under brinjal has increased considerably from the last one decade due to introduction of high yielding hybrids and varieties, and their suitability to grow even under hot summer and kharif seasons. It occupies 0.60 million ha area with the total production of 10.37 million tonnes and the average productivity is 17.30 tonnes/ha and 13.97 tonnes/ha in Uttarakhand which are low as compared to potential yields recorded up to 55.05 tonnes/ha in the field demonstrations carried out at Dehradun (Uttarakhand). The red spider mite, Tetranychus cinnabarinus Boisd is the most common mite species that attacks brinjal. It is one of the most important pests of brinjal during summer and kharif season. According to an estimate, incidence of spider mite is 26 to 92% during May to July. Symptoms of red spider mite Feeding injury often gives the top surfaces a mottled or spckled, dull appearance. Leaves then turn yellow and drop. Large populations produce visible webbing that can completely cover the leaves. In the field, spider mites are favoured by hot dry weather, which also aggravates injury by stressing the plant. Damage is often underestimated since the wounds and the pest are not apparent to our eyes without close inspection. Leaves become blotched with pale yellow, reddish brown spots ranging from small to large areas on both upper and lower leaf surfaces. Life cycle of red spider mite and transmission features The life cycle of red spider mite involves five developmental stages viz. egg, larva, two nymphal stages and adult.