 In this halophyte, leaf proportion is higher than branch parts. This is grazed by cattle, buffalo, camel, goat and sheep. However, it is palatable only up to 45–60 days after planting, after that, salt content in leaves increases in higher quantity and animal can not feed on it. Na: K ratio in leaves ranges from 5–10. At a later stage of crop growth, salt particle excreted by leave glands is seen on the tip of the leaves. It can be planted through seed only by adopting 30–45 cm spacing between the rows. This halophyte yields about 2–3 t/ha of dry fodder. Cressa cretica fares well in a salinity range of 20–40 electrical conductivity of soil. Aeluropus lagopoides: This is a monocot halophyte contains about 7–8% crude protein. This is non- salty fodder and is grazed by cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and camel. The Na: K ratio in the leaves ranges from 0.2–0.3 and is always leases than 1. This can be planted either through seed or root slip/stem cutting by Indian Farming 5 March 2023 adopting a row to row spacing of 45–60 cm. The dry fodder yield ranges from 3–4 t/ha. This halophyte was observed in good growth in the salinity range of 40–80 electrical conductivity of soil in Kachchh region of Gujarat. Sporobolus marginatus: This is a monocot halophyte with a crude protein content of 6–7%. It is highly palatable, non-salty grass and is grazed by almost all animals. The local people in Kachchh region call it Meethi ghas (sweet grass). The Na:K ratio in the leaves ranges from 0.2–0.3, whereas in the root it ranges from 0.6–0.8. It can be planted either through seed or root slip by adopting a spacing of 60 cm of the row to row. Its dry fodder yield ranges from 3–5 t/ha. The halophyte was found to be grown in a soil salinity level of 30–40 electrical conductivity of soil. Nutritional quality of halophytes Crude fiber ranged from 18.2% in S. nudiflora to 28.1% in A. lagopoides. The halophyte forages contained high levels of ash (14.7–37.7%) and silica (1.9–8.5%), which could limit intake and digestibility of halophyte as forages. The sodium (Na) and phosphorus (P) contents in most of the halophyte forages were more than the recommended dietary level for cattle. Among the halophytes, Cressa cretica and Suaeda nudiflora could be a potential source of crude protein and minerals for livestock fed on low-quality roughages. However, anti-nutritional factors in halophyte fodder associated with a high saline environment have to be investigated for integrating these resources in animal feeding schedule. Major agronomic practices (sowing, spacing, fertilizer, yield): The monocot halophytes tolerate soil salinity even up to electrical conductivity (EC) of 80 dS/m, while dicot halophytes tolerate a moderate salinity up to EC of 20–40 dS/m. While monocot halophytes namely, S. marginatus and A. lagopoides can be grown either through seed or through root-slip, dicot halophytes (Sueda nudiflora and C. cretica) should be grown only through seed.