 Now, ICAR has developed an anti-methanogenic feed supplement ‘Harit Dhara’ (HD), which can cut down cattle methane emissions by 17-20 per cent and it can also result in higher milk production. When such technologies are adopted, what will be the total reduction and resultant positive impact of dairy sector in mitigating the negative impact of climate change need to be assessed and adoption of such technologies popularised. Animal Variety development and release issue: Unfortunately, we do not have a proper mechanism to release animal varieties developed from time to time. We do not have a system like Initial/ advanced varietal trials, State or Central variety release committees for which it is nobody’s responsibility to mass produce their seeds – be it semen or young germplasm like piglets etc. This aspect needs a focussed attention so that the farmers get the seeds of the released varieties. In this era of data centric planning, it is very important to collect and collate the information on the contribution of our generated technologies thus far, that facilitated in the stated growth of livestock and poultry sector and then carry out a Meta analysis of the data so collected to arrive at a clear picture on the data-backed technology contribution to the sector’s growth as well as to use the same in programming machine learning, block chain etc technology use in animal sciences for its continued growth. Key takeaways There is need to collate and compile data for near accurate assessment of total contributions of technology, right from seed/ germplasm, vaccines, diagnostics to production packages, on livestock sector growth. Carry out meta analysis of the data to improve production to consumption touch points as well as to develop data centric research and development agenda. Streamline animal variety release chain, and subsequent percolation of the benefit of the developed varieties to end-users. 78 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series AGRICULTURAL MECHANIZATION IN INDIA FOR 21ST CENTURY Virendra Kumar Tiwari In India, population has increased from 55.52 crores in 1970-71 to 132.45 crores in 2015-16, and average land holding has decreased from 2.20 ha in 1970-71 to 1.02 ha in 2015-16. Because of the increased population, food grain demand, which was 250 million tonnes in 2016, is estimated to reach 355 million tonnes by 2030. In order to meet this demand, land productivity has to be improved. In India, agriculture and allied sectors contributed around 15.9 per cent to the GDP in 2017-18. The farm mechanization level and food grain productivity of the country are about 40 per cent and 3248 kg/ha, respectively. Whereas, in countries like USA, Brazil and China, farm mechanization level is about 95 per cent, 75 per cent and 50 per cent, respectively, and their food grain productivity is about 8692 kg/ha, 4806 kg/ha, and 6081 kg/ha, respectively.