 The study is based on primary data and secondary data collected through sample survey of farmers’ cultivating organic fruits and vegetables and also farmer groups and the value addition centres in Palakkad, Kerala. The study covers farmers cultivating mango, jackfruit and short term vegetable crops. From the district, 8 farmers and 4 cluster groups or value addition centres as well as 8 consumers of organic fruits and vegetables were selected for sampling. The data were collected from selected farmers of different panchayats of the district and consumers were selected from the urban town area of Palakkad. The secondary data were collected from departments of approved agencies working in organic agriculture. The data collected were tabulated and analysed using simple percentages and indices. The analysis of the impact in integrating value chain in organic fruits and vegetables were done through simple indices. Perception on value chain of organic produce The perception of eight organic farmers cultivating fruits and vegetables as well as the work done by four value addition centres in the district along with eight consumers were taken for survey and their opinion towards different marketing mix attributes were also studied and presented as under. Organic farmer The perception of 8 organic farmers about different attributes of marketing mix of fruits and vegetables were recorded through a pre-developed questionnaire and analysed accordingly. The farmers were asked the awareness about the produce they are cultivating and the knowledge they have in placing their produce in a graded, packed and labelled form to the customer. The farmers producing mangoes and jackfruit were producing organic produce by default as they do not use any fertiliser or chemical for cultivation and they rely on the Govt. machinary like krishibhavans for certification process. All of them were seeking the help of value addition centres for grading, packing, labeling and transportation of the produce. The farmers doesn’t have a role to play in pricing factor since it is done by the value addition centres themselves but the farmers get a premium price for their produce according to the grade they are producing. Value addition centres The perception of 4 value addition centres in Palakkad district were taken for the study. All were the farmer cluster groups which sell the produce collected from the farmers to retailers or consumers. The cluster groups collect produce from the member farmers and after proper grading, packing and labelling as per customer requirement; prices are fixed according to the market rates. The fruits like jackfruit will be cut open and then packed and labeled, mangoes are made into boxes of 5 kg and labelled.