 As these systems evolve, they will be crucial in addressing global water challenges and promoting sustainable water use. However, educating farmers and homeowners about the benefits and operation of smart irrigation systems is vital for their wider adoption and applicability in the field. 4. Conclusions This study concluded that traditional irrigation is experiencing a change motivated by modern technologies (such as precision automatic monitoring and control systems). This transformation looks promising regarding the efficient utilization of available water resources and enables this area to shift to the next level of the water management sector. Modern irrigation is based on precision/smart irrigation principles, with producers using systems that generate data in their farms, which will be processed in such a way as to make proper strategic and operational decisions. In the traditional irrigation scheduling method, farmers visit the fields to check the status of their soil and crops. Later, he makes decisions based on their visual experience. In addition, traditional techniques are time and resource-consuming and no longer sustainable. Therefore, SISs provide valuable solutions within the context of intelligent farming. Also, despite some growers having long-time knowledge collected after many years of work in agriculture, modern tools may present an organized means to identify unexpected or unseen field problems that are hard to examine by the visual assessment on occasional checks. The smart irrigation system provides a promising solution for improving plant growth and crop yields by efficiently managing water resources. It has the potential to increase the productivity of agricultural systems while reducing water waste and environmental footprints, which is a critical issue in areas with water scarcity. Author Contributions: All authors were engaged in writing this manuscript. Initial idea, writing, and first draft preparation, I.A.L. and T.N.S.; conceptualization, supervision, and funding acquisition, H.Y.; methodology and formal analysis, Y.H. and B.W.; validation, G.W. and C.Z.; formatting and revision, B.H. (Bin He) and B.H. (Beibei Hao); review and editing, J.N.C., M.R., and R.B. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: Present work was financially supported by National Key R&D Program (2021YFC3201103), the Jiangsu Funding Program for Excellent Postdoctoral Talent (No.2022ZB640), the Natural Science Foundation of China (52121006, U2243228, 1509107, 42177065), the Key R&D Project of Jiangsu Province (BE2022351), and the Science and Technology Planning Project of Guangdong Province (2019B121201004). Data Availability Statement: No data were used or generated. Conflicts of Interest: The authors declare no competing interests. References 1. FAO. The state of food and agriculture 2020. In Overcoming Water Challenges in Agriculture; FAO: Rome, Italy 2020. https://doi.org/10.4060/cb1447en. 2.