 There­ fore, to have a proper representation of the ACZs, some districts were selected through the proportional sampling method, e.g., since the North Western plateau ACZ consists of two districts, namely, Sundar­ garh and Deogarh, only one district, i.e., Sundargarh is selected in the sample, whereas four districts, namely, Cuttack(P), Nayagarh, Puri, and Khurda are selected from East & South Eastern plateau in the sample. This proportional sampling would help in the proportional representa­ tion of the ACZs in the ultimate sampling process (see Table 1). Accordingly, the present study covers 17 revenue districts out of the total 30 districts of Odisha. The representative districts are presented in bold letters in Fig. A1 of the appendix. After the selection of the districts, one revenue block (each district is comprised of some revenue blocks for administrative proposes in Odi­ sha) from each district was selected through a simple random technique. This gave us a total of 17 blocks across ten ACZs of Odisha. From each revenue block, one Gram Panchayat (GP) was selected through the lottery method of simple random sampling technique method. After selecting GPs, two revenue villages from each GP were chosen through a combination of judgmental sampling and a simple random sampling technique method. While selecting the revenue villages, the village-level socio-economic and demographic information was collected from the 2011 census database. It was observed that in some GPs, there are some villages with very few households (even less than 20). Therefore, at this stage of the sampling process, a combination of judgmental sampling and a simple random sampling technique was used so that the selected village has at least 30 households directly and/or indirectly involved in agriculture and/or allied activities. Additionally, while selecting the villages, the distance of the village from the GP office was considered. One village nearer to the GP and another farther from the GP office was selected. This criterion was considered during the selection of the vil­ lages as it is assumed that the village nearer to the GP office (office from where different policy interventions are controlled and/or regulated, and through which extension services are provided to the farmers) may reap the benefit of government policy interventions and extension ser­ vices better than the villager far away from the GP office (Singer-Prebish hypothesis, center-periphery relation). Thus, the present study covered a total of 34 villages (two villages from each GP). After selecting the vil­ lages, the details on the socio-economic and demographic profiles of the households were collected from the 2011 census data. Additionally, the discussion was held with the village heads and the Sarpanch (elected representative of the GP) to supplement the household information of the 2011 census data.