 Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Expertise for trainings on AnGR management specifically on identification, characterization, conservation & utilization of native animal breeds • Karyotyping and DNA Testing of genetic abnormalities/diseases for breeding bulls, A1A2 allele testing in cattle • National framework for germplasm registration for registering animal breeds/lines by any citizen of India • Scientific literature (breed monographs, calendars etc.)on native breeds for sale. Felicitation of a breed applicant by Hon’ble A&FW Minister Gazette notification of Registered breeds 150 ICAR Institutes Profile 150 ICAR-National Institute of Animal Nutrition and Physiology 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: Hosur Main Road, Adugodi, Bengaluru – 560030, Karnataka ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Raghavendra Bhatta iii. Email address / Phone No.: directornianp@gmail.com ; 080-25711303/304 2. Mandate and activities • To conduct basic and fundamental research with respect to animal feed resource management using physiological-nutritional approaches to improve animal productivity and profitability of livestock farmers. 3. Salient achievements • Area Specific Mineral Mixture-A more practical and cost-effective mineral supplement for improving general health, productive and reproductive performance of dairy animals. • Sheepmin &Goatmin -Supplementation of sheep and goat mineral mixture improves growth and health with better weight gain, low mortality and higher immune status in sheep and goat. • HaritDhara & Tamarin Plus -An anti-methanogenic feed supplement which is very effective in reducing enteric methane emission by 20% and both can be fed to cattle, buffalo and sheep. • ReproFat Plus – It contains critical macronutrients, essential macro and micro minerals and natural anti-oxidant which improves rumen function, liver and ovarian health, fertility, milk quality and milk yield in dairy animals. • Milk Replacer for Lambs -Milk replacer is a special feed containing quality ingredients that are highly digestible and designed for supporting the nutritional needs of young nursing lambs in achieving optimum growth and health. • Reprovardhak -It is a more potent product in estrous synchronization programmes in small and large animals which does not have any side effects even on repetitive use for augmentation of reproduction. • BUFFASOL: This novel buffalo-specific semen extender contains the essential metabolites that are generally found deficient in buffalo seminal plasma as compared to that of the cattle. Approximately, 80% of the buffalo bulls responded to this new semen extender and exhibit improved post-thaw sperm qualities of the cryopreserved semen.