 The CAS shall apply only to scientific position while MACPS shall apply to all non-scientific positions. In the event of transfer/retirement/death/resignation of such promoted staff carrying higher pay band and grade pay acquired because of promotion through CAS/MACPS, shall be filled only in the initial grade approved under the KVK project. (vii) That the KVK Personnel shall be encouraged to publish literature related to training programmes and evaluative studies including major achievements. (viii) That based on Utilisation Certificate signed by the Head of the Organisation & Head of Finance Wing, in case of KVKs under SAU/Govt.Organisation/Deemed University/Central Agricultural University/Central University etc., funds to the extent of 50% of the budgetary allocation will be released. Release of grants-in-aid in excess of fifty per cent of the total amount sanctioned for a financial year shall be done only after the annual audited statement relating to grants-in-aid released in the preceding year are submitted by the statutory auditors. Any unspent balance should be refunded to the SECOND PARTY as per the rules laid down by the FIRST PARTY in this regard. (ix) That apart from the audit of the accounts of the KVK under the NGO by an Accredited Chartered Accountant, audit department of the Govt. of India/audit wing of FIRST PARTY may conduct the audit of the accounts. (x) That the FIRST PARTY also will look into the reports submitted by the Auditors and inspection reports received from Indian Audit and Accounts Department, if any and the performance reports, if any, received for the year should also be looked into while sanctioning further grants. (xi) That in case of non-receipt of the Audit and Utilization Certificate, the FIRST PARTY may stop the grant of the KVK Project till the receipt of AUC. (xii) That in addition to the normal audit as stated above, the FIRST PARTY may also get special audit conducted at its discretion. 145 Appendices (xiii) That the FIRST PARTY may appoint suitable committees from time to time to assess the progress of the KVK. On their recommendations further grants and continuance of the project shall be considered. (xiv) That in the event of an unsatisfactory progress of work at a Kendra as assessed by the FIRST PARTY, it may stop the release of further grants to such Kendra or terminate the project funding without assigning reasons. (xv) That The FIRST PARTY will not be liable to bear any expenditure on pensionary benefits other than Contributory Provident Fund/Employee Provident Fund and Gratuity. (xvi) That the assessment of the performance of staff of KVK shall be done by the SECOND PARTY in consultation with the FIRST PARTY as per norms and procedure approved for implementation of KVK Project. (xvii) That the FIRST PARTY will have the right to publish the relevant data/materials obtained as a result of work done under the KVK project before they are published elsewhere. 9.