 Development of climate resilient rice Landrace improvement/breeding for improved grain quality Digital agriculture for scaling and system transformation 147 Climate Smart Agriculture IRRI works with partners to strengthen the national research capacity of rice growing countries in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. The goal is to deliver advanced research, education and services to improve crop production, grain quality and the nutritive value of rice. As India is going to be the third largest economy in the world by 2030, IRRI will work together with NARES partners to develop a comprehensive South-South program for collaboration with the IRRI South Asia Regional Centre at its core. The partnership can generate even more milestones as IRRI transitions to One CGIAR. Under the One CGIAR, the scientific innovations are deployed faster at a larger scale and at reduced cost and would have greater impact where there is utmost need. By providing integrated and trans-disciplinary approach for bigger impacts, by leveraging capacities from across the CGIAR system to support local partners transform regional systems as they have a network of more than 3,000 partners globally. More projects are in the pipeline, including new strategies and innovations that can further improve the lives of India’s smallholder farmers. Key takeaways South-South collaboration aims to strengthen national research capacity of rice- growing countries in South Asia and sub-Saharan Africa. India and IRRI will continue its partnership to deliver advanced research, education and services to improve crop production, grain quality and rice nutritional value in the country and of the region in particular. 148 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series BUILDING RESILIENCE AGAINST CLIMATE CHANGE ROLE OF TECHNOLOGIES, POLICIES AND INSTITUTIONS Pramod Kumar Joshi During 1951 and 2010, human influence has been the major cause of global warming. Human-driven changes in land- use and land cover such as deforestation, urbanization and shifts in vegetation pattern have altered the climate, resulting in changes on the reflectivity of the Earth surface, emissions from burning forests, urban heat island effects and changes in the natural water cycle. Due to climate change, 2019 was the second hottest year in last 140 years. In India, greenhouse gas emission in 2019 was 6.55 per cent of the global greenhouse gas emission—70 per cent was from the energy sector, 20 per cent from agriculture, 5 per cent from industrial processes, 3.8 per cent was from land-use changes and 1.2 per cent was from waste. Climate change is adversely affecting agricultural production, food security and livelihood opportunities. Climate change is weakening resilience and increasing vulnerability due to environmental shocks, leading to food insecurity and economic instability. Around 10-40 per cent losses in crop production are due to rise in temperature. Dr P.K.