78), nursery management (3.25%), crop diversification (5.63%), water Mobile advisory services Timely and need based information to the farming community was provided by 637 KVKs using mobile advisory services during the reporting period. Farmers were alerted and advised on suitable actions based on weather forecasts, outbreak of pest and disease incidence and market prices. As many as 1,207,561 messages were sent by KVKs benefiting 1,049.56 lakh farmers on various aspects of agriculture, horticulture and animal husbandry, weather forecast, and pest and disease using in Kisan Portal. Success Story Hi-Tech Pan Boroz: A new vista in betelvine cultivation Betel leaf is one of the important commercial crops of the district South 24 Parganas. Out of total cultivable area of 368,197 ha of the district, betel leaf occupies 2,685 ha area covering around 35,000 households from six blocks. This crop has become mainstay of occupation for blocks namely Sagar, Namkhana and Pathar Pratima. Betel crop on modified boroz structure Betelvine, a shade loving crop, is usually grown in boroz–an artificial shade structure made up of bamboo, paddy straw and other related bio-degradable items. Growing betel vine within this structure is prone to numerous diseases and insect pests. These structures are also frequently affected by storms and cyclones in the coastal area. A durable boroz structure using GI pipes on concrete basement fitted with green shade net, 75% on the top and 50% on the side walls, was developed by KVK of South 24 Pargana. It is made up of non-degradable items, thereby, chances of pest and disease attack are very low. This boroz is fitted with micro-sprinkler irrigation facility, which reduces irrigation cost, maintains temperature and humidity within the boroz during the hot summer and dry winter. It gives uniform shading resulting in uniform colouration of leaf. After adopting this modern boroz, farmers are experiencing better profitability in betelvine cultivation due to lower cost of cultivation, minimum/no recurring cost for maintenance of boroz structure, higher production and higher market value of the produce (leaf) due to good colour, shape (roundish) and lustre of the leaf. The construction cost of a Hi-Tech boroz of 500 m2 size is ` 300,000. Farmer needs to bear 50% of the total cost and the rest is assisted by State Department of Horticulture through NHM scheme. KVK has made an arrangement of getting bank loan of the farmers’ contribution amount (50% of the total cost) through a tying-up programme with local banks. For the ease of the farmers, door step bank account opening was done at village level. At present, around 2,000 farmers approached KVK for getting this type of hi-tech boroz in lieu of their traditional one. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 127 dairying (5.15%), bee keeping (4.86%), integrated farming (4.66%) and production of organic inputs (3.00%).