 The protein produced using this method is superior in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. A process for preparation of fat/oil free flavoured makhana was developed. Fat free flavoured makhana is useful for the health-conscious consumers. Testing kits for detection of adulterants in selected spices, e.g. turmeric powder, red chillies, black pepper, coriander etc. were developed based on biochemical tests. The kit contains chemicals, glassware and procedure for the detection of adulterants, viz. metanil yellow, lead chromate, sudan dye, rhodamine, starch and papaya seed powder in spices. The other processes and products developed were activated carbon from walnut hull, natural dye extracted from walnut hull, rose petal jam, soy based composite edible film, omega 3 rich flax seed and chia seed fortified eggless chocolate cake, cotton gin trash treatment system, cotton interlined sleeping bags for better comfort, agro-residue reinforced natural rubber garden pots, innovative lysimeter for on– farm water management, high value fine textiles from banana/jute/regenerated cellulosic fibres, sorghum yoghurt, omega-3 fatty acid fortified butter, seaweed- based products etc. Agricultural human resource development: The Education Division, ICAR, continues to strive for strengthening and quality assurance of higher agricultural education through implementation of scheme ‘Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India’. Quality assurance of AUs was ensured through accreditation and ranking of the AUs. Capacity building of the students and faculties was enhanced in 16 programmes supported under Niche Area of Excellence including, one new programme sanctioned in 2019-20. Learning resources were enriched and strengthened with e-books/print books and ICT in all disciplines. Twenty new Experiential Learning Modules ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 5 OVERVIEW were supported under student ‘READY’ component for developing entrepreneurial skills of students. Financial support was also provided for strengthening, renovation and modernization of the structures pertaining to learning and teaching as well as for infrastructure pertaining to student amenities, viz. student hostels, laboratories, examination halls, smart classrooms. AUs were also supported for encouraging holistic development of students. Various programmes/activities also facilitated promotion of higher agricultural education.