 : Kuda: Adeciduous laticiferous shrub or small tree, 30-40 ft high and up to 4 ft in girth, with a clear bole of 10-20 ft, occurring almost throughout India, up to an altitude of 4000 ft, often gregariously, in deciduous forests and open waste lands; It is especially abundant in the sub-Himalayan tract. Bark rather rough, pale-brownish or grayish, peeling off in irregular flakes; leaves opposite, subsessile, elliptic or ovate-oblong, 4-12 in. x 2-5 in., membranous; flowers white, in terminal corymbose cymes; follicles divaricate, cylindric, 6-18 in. long and 0.2-0.4 in. in diameter, usually white spotted; seeds light- brown, 0.3-0.5 in. long, 900-1,000 seeds weighing 1 oz., 25-30 in a follicle: coma-brownish, spreading, 1-2 in. long. Kadu nimb: A moderate-sized deciduous tree, 9-12 m. high, with a cylindrical bole 3.5 m long x 1-1.2 m girth, found growing wild in the sub-Himalayan tract up to 1,800 m. Bark dark-grey with shallow longitudinal furrows; leaves bi- or occasionally tripinnate; leaflets ovate or lanceolate, serrate; flowers lilac, fragrant, in axillary panicles; fruit an ellipsoid- globose drupe with 4-5 seeds. It is a native of West Asia and is now naturalized throughout the warm countries. In India it is often cultivated in the plains as an ornamental avenue tree. Kubhali: A lofty, deciduous tree, up to 35 m tall, with a spreading crown and a bole of 4-6 m, commonly found in the evergreen monsoon forests of the foot-hills of Assam and Meghalaya and in the eastern and western ghats in peninsular India. Main stem generally armed with broad conical spines, 2-3 cm long; branchlets usually sparsely armed with straight or ascending prickles, often swollen and hollow, apparently housing ants; bark cream-coloured or yellowish-grey, studded with conical spines, thick, deeply and finely reticulate-fissured; leaves paripinnate or imparipinnate, 30-40 cm long, glabrous, clustered at the ends of branches: leaflets 5-8 pairs, opposite or subopposite, Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK ovate to elliptic, chartaceous, occasionally with scattered pellucid dots, oblique, entire to glandular-crenate; flowers white to yellowish-white, in terminal paniculate cymes which may sometimes be located in the upper leaf-axils; follicles globose, aromatic, red, rugose, 6-7 mm in diameter; seeds blue-black, subglobose, shining. Teak: A tree with rounded crown, very variable in size according to its habitat, indigenous to the peninsular India and Madhya Pradesh, extending to parts of Rajasthan, southern Uttar Pradesh and Orissa. In favourable localities the tree attains large size, with tall, clean and cylindrical bole, carrying its girth well up the stem; but with advanced age the stem becomes more fluted and buttressed at the base.