 Key words: Bhoga Kolony, upland, pummelo fruit bark, crab, wood ash A mixture of coconut water and buttermilk is used to increase the number of flowers in paddy, groundnut, millets and banana. A mixture of 5 litres coconut (Cocos nucifera) water, and 5 litres buttermilk is taken and this solution is kept in a mud pot. This pot is buried in the soil for 5 to 7 days. After that 1 litre solution is mixed with 10 litres water. This solution is ready to spray, which helps to increase number of flowers in the crops. Keywords: coconut water, buttermilk, flowers This variety of rice gives good yield in black soils and can also be raised in dubba and red chalka soils of Telangana. It comes to maturity in 120 days, and yields 1.2 tonne/ha grain and 8 cartloads fodder/ha. Starch can be prepared by cooking the grain, which is good for lactating mothers. Keywords: Bailu Nalla Budda Vaddlu, dubba, lactating mothers, starch This crop can be raised in all types of soils, and it comes to maturity within 120 days. Two good rains are required to get its successful yield. On an average, it can give 1.5 tonne grain and 8 cartloads fodder per hectare. The Shri C. Bhakkiyanadhan, S/o Shri Chandrasekaran, Nettavelampatty, Kottaipalayam (via Thuraiyur Taluk), Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 621 003 Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2783 Cultivation of Bailu Erra Budda Vaddlu (red variety) rice grains form a nutritious diet for lactating mothers. Key words: Bailu Erra Vadlu, lactating mothers, fodder This rice variety gives good yield in red soils and needs uniform rainfall. The crop comes to maturity in 120 days, yielding 2 tonnes grain and 8 cartloads fodder per hectare. It is similar to Bailu Nalla Budda Vaddlu except the colour. Keywords: Bailu Erra Budda Vaddlu, fodder Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Medak (Andhra Pradesh) 2784 Qurqut, a local variety of paddy Qurqut, a local paddy is cultivated in Goa in rainy (kharif) season. This plant is very tall and has red grain. It can be grown under irrigated conditions. Its taste is most acceptable, but the yield is not very good. Crop duration is 122 to 135 days. Keywords: Qurqut, red grain, irrigated condition Shri Priti Tilve, Tiverm Marcela.Fonda. Dist. North Goa (Goa) 403 402 2785 Sarde method of paddy cultivation 2786 Puran method of paddy cultivation Sarde is a practice of cultivating paddy in rainy {kharif) season under rainfed conditions. Any variety can be taken for cultivation. In North Goa, sprouted seeds are broadcast in high land and in low land by transplanting. After the harvest of paddy, legumes and vegetables are taken on a large scale. Keywords: sarde, sprouted seeds The practice of growing paddy near the riverbed is called puran.