 By planting crops that are adapted to different temperature ranges, farmers can ensure that some crops thrive even during unexpected dry spells. Pest pressures may be reduced in diversified systems for various reasons, most important being the encouragement of beneficial insect diversity and abundance and reduced ability of pests to locate their preferred feed. Several studies indicated that diversification practices such as intercropping are beneficial because of lower damage by insect pests in these systems. The studies at CRIDA with diverse crops along with fodder highlighted that diverse crops can reduce the risk of crop failure, improve the yield, accommodate another source of income like livestock, improve soil health, reduce soil and nutrient erosion as well as reduce the incidence of pests in the crop. Sorghum + pigeonpea - hedge lucerne; sorghum + pigeonpea - guinea grass and sorghum-fodder cluster bean-fodder cowpea-fodder horse gram are the three best systems that provided fodder and grain. The fodder harvested from these systems is given Table 2. The growth behaviour of pigeonpea makes it less competitive for resources when it was grown with sorghum. Growing a perennial component further manipulated the crop environment for low pest incidence (in terms of choice of appropriate duration and intercrop). The impact of duration and intercropping on insect pests and natural enemies is well known and the significant effect of intercropping on various insect pests in majority of the systems caused the reduction of pest and proliferation of natural enemies across different field crops. Another study at CRIDA with 13 pulse-oilseed cropping systems, identified a remunerative and climate adaptive double cropping system for crop diversification and abiotic stress management. Cowpea-sesame (with rainwater management) followed by cowpea-sesame (without rainwater management) and cowpea-safflower (with rainwater management) is highly productive and remunerative. Diverse crops with appropriate rainwater management can be a better option to improve the crop productivity and livelihood security of rainfed farmers. Sorghum + pigeonpea-hedge lucerne Cluster bean and Sorghum (Sorghum-fodder cluster bean-fodder cowpea-fodder horse gram) Sesame with rainwater managed field (left), without rainwater management (right) Intercropping Intercropping is most preferred in dry and rainfed regions as they reduce the risk of crop failure due to sudden change in weather. Apart from that, intercropping can improve water-use efficiency, reduces soil erosion and also enhance soil fertility. Intercropping ensures better use of available resources like light, water, and nutrients by enabling crops with different growth patterns to coexist and exploit different parts of the environment. Similarly, integrating intercropping system reduces the risk of crop failure and also improves the soil fertility.