 Division of Agriculture Extension, ICAR, New Delhi implemented Cluster Frontline Demonstrations (CFLDs) programme through KVKs on major pulse and oilseed crops under National Food Security Mission (NFSM) of Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi to demonstrate the production potential of different technologies of these crops. Under capacity development, a total of 23.16 lakh farmers/farm women, rural youth and extension personnel were trained on various aspects through 74,065 training programmes including the sponsored training courses. Besides these activities, important programmes namely Out scaling of Natural Farming, Formation and Promotion of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 9 as Cluster Based Business Organizations (CBBOs), Technological backstopping to FPOs, Demonstrations through Agri-drones, Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav were taken up to address various challenges. During the reporting year, KVKs organized a total of 6.19 lakh extension programmes using various methods and means. These included advisory services, celebrations of important days, diagnostic and clinic services, exhibitions, exposure visits, ex-trainees sammelan, farm science club conveners’ meetings, farmers’ seminars, farmers’ visits to KVK, field days, film shows, group meetings, kisan ghosthi, kisan melas, lectures delivered as resource persons, mahila mandal conveners’ meetings, method demonstrations, plant/animal health camps, scientists’ visits to farmers’ fields, self-help group meetings, soil- health camps, soil-test campaigns, workshops, and other activities, wherein latest technologies related to agriculture and allied sectors were disseminated among 204.61 lakh participants including 200.58 lakh farmers and 4.54 lakh extension personnel. Additionally, KVKs are in the forefront for effective utilization of electronic and print media to have wider coverage of technology dissemination. KVKs produced technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and elite species of livestock, poultry and fish which benefited 11.18 lakh farmers in the country. In addition to ICAR institutes, 55 Directorates of Extension Education (DEEs) in the SAUs/CAUs played pivotal role in technological backstopping to KVKs of the country. Timely and need based information to the farming community was provided by 594 KVKs by using mobile advisory services. Based on weather forecast, farmers were alerted and advised on suitable farm operations.