 Establishment of marketing chain for efficient/timely supply of produce/product from nyaypanchayat level. 6. Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz. Mini thresher, power tiller etc. in all blocks. 7. Establishment of packaging infrastructure at nyaypanchayat level with packaging, sewing, sealing and labeling facilities. Strategy 5 : Waste land development and waste water treatment 1. Contour making for arable purpose in waste land in all blocks. 2. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 35% slope in all blocks. 3. Promotion of plantation of mulberry, wild fruit plants and fodder trees (Griwia, Alnus, Celtis, Oak, Buransh, Kaafal etc.) in all blocks. 594 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 4. Regular maintenance of soil bunds to save excessive loss of nutrients and minimize the water loss in wasteland in all blocks. 5. Popularization of V- notch, trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off in all blocks. 6. Construction of Loose check dam in gullies/ nalas, check dams in rivers/nalas, and desired artificial structure to maximize water percolation rate in marginal and denudated areas in all blocks. 7. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season in all blocks. 8. Development of pasture and drinking ponds for animals on waste land at nyaypanchayat level. 9. Establishment of waste water treatment plants based on phycoremediation technique at sewer drainage points. Strategy 6 : Reduced cultivation cost 1. Promotion of different techniques to reduce cultivation cost in all blocks such as: 2. Promotion of well decomposed FYM, self prepared vermicompost and biofertilizers to minimize the use of costly chemical fertilizers. 3. Promotion of line/cross sowing and recommended dose of fertilizers application in crops. 4. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. 5. Promotion of need based application of pesticides and other agricultural inputs. 6. Promotion of hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. 7. Adoption of Power tillers/ Power weeders, Mandua/ Madira threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/operated threshers. 8. Promotion of mulching (bio or degradable plastic) in vegetables and fruits to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. 9. Promotion of pressurized irrigation techniques in horticultural crops. 10. Promotion of tillers and other garden tools (serrated sickle, wheel hoe, handle fork, handle kutla) for reduction of drudgery. Strategy 7 : Off-farm income 1. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like handicraft articles (aipen, squash, Rambaans products, pickles, mushroom production, home made/ valueadded products (bari, papad, namkeen, biscuit), copper/ iron utensils. 2. Promotion of sericulture in all blocks. 3. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants in all blocks. 4. Promotion of skill development in women and youth in all blocks. 5.