 The Ramraj (the Enlightened Anarchy) of Gandhiji’s vision was to be accomplished in three steps: Swaraj- Independence from British rule; Grama Swaraj-establishing a non-violent state by creating Village Republics; Ram Rajya-Kingdom of God on earth which would be devoid of violence and a completely democratic stateless society (Pandey 1989). Thus, Swaraj, Grama Swaraj and Ramraj are three critical elements in the pursuit of implementing the ideal social 186 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR order. However, it is hard to attain the Ram Rajya, Gandhiji stated that in its absence, the only feasible option was Grama Swaraj. 3.6. Decentralization: Gandhiji assumed that individual well-being with intellectual and emotional development must be the primary focus of society, and it should be accomplished by the decentralization of economic and political forces. He wanted the panchayat to execute the legislative, executive and judicial activities required for the effective functioning of the rural economy. Numerous developmental programmes, such as education, sanitation and hygiene, would also be performed by the village panchayat (Gandhi and Iyer 1986). Mahatma Gandhi’s visits around the nation strengthened his belief that India might prosper if the villages were managed by the Village of Panchayats, based on the concept of “simple living and high thinking.” It is in accordance with Gandhiji ‘s vision, that India has now enacted the Panchayati Raj Institutions by approving the 73rd (Constitution) Amendment Act, 1992. 3.7. Concepts of Austerity and Abstinence: Mahatma Gandhi said “there is enough for everyone’s need and but not for everyone’s greed” (Naryan 1970). He presumed that nature has balanced activities in a certain way that the eco-system would have an equilibrium and that everyone will get as much of what they require to have a happy life. Unsurprisingly, in order to satisfy his greed, man is selfish and ignores the law of nature and exploits resources for his gratification. Therefore, he pleaded to citizens to be austere and to pursue the concept of abstinence for the benefit of all (Naryan 1970). 3.8. Industrialization: Gandhiji was critical about industrialization and westernization, as he was afraid that it would affect the rural economy negatively. He was pretty sure that machines would occupy the position of human labour; thus increasing the unemployment and poverty rate. It would also lead to amassing of wealth by few, exploitation of villages and increase the suffering of destitute. He was in favour of grass root innovations and favoured machines if it fulfilled the criteria of providing employment to all and promoted self-sufficiency. Gandhiji opposed ‘Industrial Civilization’ but recommended ‘Handicraft Civilization’. 3.9.