 For example, some regions are experiencing more extreme rainfall events and frequent flooding scenarios, while other areas are experiencing frequent droughts and heat waves. Therefore, working on more sustainably managing the available natural resources (soil, water, and air) to produce more food is an essential topic [6]. Water is considered a finite and essential reserve, and its sustainable management is crucial for tackling the challenges caused by climate change, population growth, and the increasing demand for agricultural and industrial activities. Therefore, the proper use and optimal management of water resources for food production is still one of the critical issues worldwide. It is a prime reason why researchers reported alarm that there may be a rising threat that food production and water availability may not be enough to feed the population. With the advancement of people from a hunter civilization to an agricultural civilization, efforts have been made to improve the efficiency of the agriculture systems and efficient management of the available water resources. Researchers have begun investigating new possibilities for efficient water management in the last decades by implementing diverse precision and advanced methods and tools in the traditional agriculture sector. Li et al. [7] reported that adopting precision farming tools and water management methods can significantly uplift the production of traditional agricultural systems. Also, it can ensure long-term sustainability and help mitigate the concerns people raise about global food and water shortage issues. In addition, several studies have reported that precision farming is a modern farm management and plant-growing technique in which various advanced technology tools are used to efficiently distribute and manage available natural resources. Precision farming tools help the crops and soils to receive the correct amount of nutrients and water for healthy growth and production and provide higher water use efficiency (WUE). It is a center for solving the overarching problems of traditional agriculture [8–12]. In recent years, digital transformation has influenced several aspects of our society. It has also positively impacted the traditional agriculture sector by integrating innovative technologies and solutions and evolving towards the digital agriculture paradigm. Precision irrigation methods have appeared as game-changers in the traditional agriculture sector for efficient water utilization and management [13,14]. Precision irrigation methods are also known as smart or digital irrigation methods. It represents a paradigm shift in the age-old application of irrigating crops. It comprises multiple weather and soil parameter-based monitoring and control sensors and actuators (such as water valves and pumps).