 These are also engaged in quality seed production and distribution, frontline extension activities, identifying and documenting farm innovations and converge with ongoing schemes and programs of national importance. Despite their widespread presence and multi-faceted roles, policy makers often question their relevance and efficacy. IFPRI undertook comprehensive study on measuring impact of KVK activities and their processes in improving wellbeing of farmers. The study on impact of KVKs was completed and the report was jointly published as ICAR-IFPRI discussion paper. We found a significant positive impact of KVK on farmers’ economic welfare and the benefit-cost ratio for expenditure in KVKs is 8 to 12, implying that in KVK an expenditure of Rs 1 yields at least Rs 8, which is a significant return. To supplement the macro level impact, IFPRI conducted a survey on KVKs in 2019 in Uttar Pradesh. The impact indicators were broadened to include the role of KVKs in disseminating Soil Health Card (SHC) and adoption of crop insurance. In addition, the survey also focused on the role of Pradhan Mantri Kisan Samman Nidhi (PM- Kisan) on KVK beneficiaries. A total of three joint discussion papers were published under this activity. The study on SHC and crop insurance found positive impact on access to SHC for farmers and its utilization for better nutrient and fertilizer management and significant impact of KVKs on access of crop insurance. For improving efficacy, the result shows a positive impact for SHC. From policy perspective, the importance of KVKs are quite salient for improving the implementation and efficacy of agricultural schemes. Therefore, there is a need to expand the scope of KVKs through expanding its operation focused on the agricultural schemes. PM-Kisan scheme aims to provide income support to farmers for easing their liquidity needs to facilitate timely access to inputs. This study examines the targeting accuracy and correlates of spending pattern of farmers. The findings from PM-Kisan study highlighted the following: (a) scheme reached to one-third farmers in first three months itself of its implementation, (b) significantly helped those who are relatively more dependent on agriculture and have poor access to credit and (c) stimulated the KVKs impact for the adoption of modern cultivars. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 38 Farmers Producer Organizations (FPOs) IFPRI initiated a study to understand the condition for the success of Farmer Producer Organizations (FPOs) in India. Field surveys have been carried out in two states—Bihar and Maharashtra—which focused on understanding the heterogeneity in the evolution and functioning of FPOs at the grass root level. FPOs have emerged as an important institutional mechanism to enhance farmers’ access to markets, deal with challenges of product aggregation, and minimizing the transaction costs in accessing markets.