 Furthermore, the Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) gets sniffed from the storage unit, passes through the auxiliary heating chamber and then through the sensor array. The respective sensor detects the VOC concentration and expresses it in numeric form. The values of the 8 sensors further generate a single index value through which the condition of the crop can be judged. The whole cycle of the measurement, computation and result output is completed in 7 min. The system can distinguish the differences based on VOC for all 3 commodities as the sensor readings and index value change with respect to the storage period following the specific trend. CIAE millet popping machine: ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal millet popping machine is suitable for popping of sorghum, amaranth, finger millet, kodo millet and other small grains including rice and corn. It is an electrically operated continuous type recirculatory hot air system works on the principle of hot air fluidization process. It has a capacity of 1.4–2 kg/h with 60–70% popping recovery for sorghum and amaranth. Cleaner for multiplier onion : The multiplier onion cleaner removes dead skin, chaff and impurities of de- topped and stored onion prior to marketing. The unit comprises material flow bed, air distributor, engine operated blower, feeding inlet and Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 134 calibration (SEC) of 0.827 and standard error of cross validation (SECV) 1.491. The cross and test validation of statistical data revealed standard error of prediction (SEP) as 0.941 and 1.89, respectively. The statistical results showed that developed model can be used to predict adulteration of besan with pea flour. Automatic sorting/grading system for tomato/ pomegranate: Automatic vision-based sorting/ grading system has been developed. It comprises a conveyor, diversion system, vision and sorting system. Cup type chain conveyor used to carry fruits (tomato and pomegranate) in singulation beneath the imaging chamber. The dimensions of conveyor, cup and pitch of chain have been kept in such a way that single fruit will be carried forward and should not drop down in between. The cup type chain conveyor has length and width of 6 m and 25 cm, respectively with cup diameter of 10–12 cm and depth of 5 cm with six grading compartments. Cups are hinged on the conveyor at one end and free at the other end for the ease of dropping the fruits/object. Sherlock 7.3 software of Teledyne Dalsaa has been used to develop a programme to detect the size of fruit along with quality, i.e. presence or absence of fruit and quantify the level of defect on the surface of the fruits. After sorting, developed system grades the commodities based on their sizes. At present, machine has the capacity to sort 45–50 fruits/objects per min. female was 26 and 17 weeks, respectively. The damage potential was assessed using the artificial infestation (purposive samples) with different numbers of tested insect.