 The severe-to-extreme droughts category has shown continuously increased frequency under both warming scenarios. In terms of spatial risk, more drought episodes are likely to be predicted in the central belt, particularly over the sub-basins of Wardha, Wainganga, and Pranitha, and a partial portion of Indravati and Lower Godavari sub- basins. Six districts showed the highest drought risk due to their total dependence on agriculture production and located with a dense popu­ lation. A sharp decline in rice production (41.02 %), resulting in an economic loss of 67,000 USD was estimated during a single worst-case Fig. 16. (a) Annual and (b) seasonal rice production at East Godavari for 1981–2017 and 1997–2014, respectively. K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 19 severe drought year. The drought has impacted significantly maximum on food crops than other crop categories like fodder, cash, and oilseeds crops in the East Godavari district. The farmers can switch from high- water-intensive crops such as rice to crops that require less water for optimum growth and can sustain within the drought spell with a mini­ mum water supply such as maize or cotton. Moreover, the crops like maize and cotton are less-duration crops (100 and 165 days, respec­ tively), and require less water for optimum crop growth (Praharaj et al., 2016; Doorenbos and Pruitt, 1977). Therefore, the crop that needs less water, and can sustain within a dry spell with minimum water supply can be considered a crop rotational mitigation strategy here. This could minimize the risk of drought, and even farmers could able to save their economy rather than wasting it by producing rice crops during the drought year. Funding This work was supported by the Council for Science, Technology and Innovation(CSTI), the Cross-ministerial Strategic Innovation Promotion Program (SIP), and the Development of a Resilient Smart Network System against Natural Disasters (Funding Agency: NIED). CRediT authorship contribution statement Khagendra P. Bharambe: Conceptualization, Methodology, Formal analysis, Data curation, Software, Investigation, Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. Yoshihisa Shimizu: Conceptualization, Methodology, Supervision, Writing – review & editing, Funding acquisition. Sameh A. Kantoush: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – review & editing, Funding acquisition. Tetsuya Sumi: Conceptualization, Methodology, Writing – review & editing, Funding acquisition. Mohamed Saber: Conceptualization, Methodol­ ogy, Writing – review & editing, Funding acquisition. Declaration of Competing Interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Data availability Data will be made available on request.