 Marine environment monitoring is a marked contribution of the CMFRI. The CMFRI is sea-ranching the more important varieties — shrimp and sea- cucumber — to augment the wild stocks in nature. India is the second country in Asia to pursue this activity. Of commercial importance are mariculture technologies for pearl oyster, edible oyster, clam, mussel, lobster and seaweeds. While domestic market for them is limited, the export market unlimited. The CMFRI conducts alllIndia quinquennial census surveys on fisher-folk, their socio-economic status, health and educational standards, that regularly assist the marine sector across the country. Round pearls cultured in Lamellidens marginalis Pearls may also be cultured in desired images and shapes. This one is depicting Lord Ganesha "PEARL CULTURE IS A COMMERCIAL SUCCESS IN INDIA AS WELL" The ICAR has commercialized both the freshwater and marine water pearl cultures. The Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture (CIFA) has cultured pearls in the common freshwater mussel Lamellidens marginalis, L. corrianus and Parreysia corrugata. The Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) has standardized culture of pearls in Pinctada fucata, the most important and abundant pearl oyster in India. Suitable surgical grafting and culture procedures have been developed for different pearl products — irregular round pearls; irregular baroque pearls; half-round shell- attached pearls and pearl images. CIFA is at present embarking on technology upgradation using in vitro cell culture, For which, the large oriental pearl mussel species Hypriopsis schegcli and H. cumengi have been introduced from Vietnam. The pearls produced are going to be bigger and more in number. INLAND FISHERIES A haul of fish from the Aliyar Reservoir Research at the Central Inland Capture Fisheries Research Institute (CIFRI) concentrates on maximizing fish production from both the perennial and seasonal open water bodies that abound in rural areas. Composite fish culture of the Indian and exotic carps has significantly improved the production from the smaller ponds. It involves stocking of compatible species of different feeding habits in order to utilize the food spectrum available in different ecological niches of the ponds and tanks. The technology (developed in the seventies) has raised the national average to over 2 tonnes/ha/yr from 50 kg/ha/yr. Though, a harvest of 15 tonnes/ha/yr has been demonstrated by the ICAR scientists. The ability to induce breeding among a majority of Indian carps through pituitary hormone in confined waters is a breakthrough of the late fifties. Over the years this advancement has industrialized inland fisheries. The environment monitoring programme has evaluated the commonly used pesticides and heavy metals for their toxic effects to fish and fish food organisms in the major river systems.