 Prime Minister (On the occasion of the 75th Anniversary of FAO, October 16 2020) 35 Special Trait Crop varieties Dedicated to Nation by Hon'ble Prime Minister on 28-09-2021 Diversity in milletes iii FOREWORD ICAR has commemorated the 75th Year of Nation’s independence as Azadi Ka Amrut Mahotsav by initiating unique drives including lecture series by eminent persons, massive awareness campaigns to reach the unreached, documentation of 75000 success stories of doubling farmer income, and bringing out a book entitled, “Indian Agriculture: A Saga of Success-Role of ICAR through Different Revolutions”. During 2021-22, ICAR was devoted towards development and dissemination of technologies for self-reliant agriculture, customer-focused activities, and prosperity of agricultural and rural sectors. The new technologies developed have significantly enhanced the production of food grains, fruits, vegetables, milk, meat, egg and fish, and addressed specific needs of the farmers despite limitations of land resources, increasing weather uncertainties, and emerging more virulent pests and pathogens. Further, the strong collaboration of ICAR with government and non-governmental agencies, academic and scientific institutions, industry, and farmers has helped Indian agriculture to sustain natural resources, to improve food supply and dietary nutrition profile, and to make it globally more efficient and competitive. The present document “Achievements of ICAR during 2021-22” describes the technologies in agriculture and allied sectors for augmentation of farmers income, promoting entrepreneurships, enhancing resource use efficiency, reducing imports and promoting exports. In addition, ICAR also made significant advances in ICT to enhance farmers’ access to subject matter specialists for timely and informed decision making. The Covid pandemic redefined and relocated many established system- denominators. However, the dynamic and resilient framework of ICAR easily adapted to the new system and supported the changing needs of farming community. The document is a sincere effort to provide a glimpse of ICAR’s achievement during 2021-22. I congratulate the entire team for bringing out the publiction. The suggestions for improvement are welcome towards better outputs and outcomes in future. Date: October 18, 2022 Place: New Delhi (Himanshu Pathak) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR v DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 The strong collaboration of ICAR with other stakeholders at grassroots level continued backstopping towards nation’s food and nutritional security despite of challenges such as biotic and abiotic stresses in agriculture and Covid pandemic. The major accomplishments of ICAR during 2021-22 are precisely presented in this document. The achievements are grouped into different themes.