Ill respectively would continue as such, but for the sake of uniformity, it has been decided that the assessment committees should determine the benchmark for the relevant period only in accordance witlnhe instructions of the Depart- ment of Personnel and Training fordelermination ofbenchmark as under selection method, issued from time to time. ICt\R HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES " 3. The modifications, as set out under para 2 foregoing, would take immediate effect from the date of issuance of this Notification. Any exist- ing technical employees who may like to be governed only as per the exist- ing technical service rules may do so by specifically exercising an individual option in writing to the Director of the Institute within a period of 30 days from the date of issue of this Notification. Option once exercised shall be· irrevocable and final. With the introduction of these modifications in the existing technical service rules the 33.3% promotion quota wm be operative only in Cat. l at the level ofT-1. As under the existing procedure in force the vacancy in the event of retirement/death/resignation of the technical person- nel carrying whatever personal grade through assessment promotion in the technical service shall occur only in the initial grade of his appointment under the service. This will continue to be regulated accordingly. However, in the meanwhile no post/grade of post under the Category Ill of technical service should be filled up by the direct recruitment until funher instructions from the Council. 4. Kindly acknowledge receipt of this Notification, and immediate necessary action as per rules be expedited for its implementation. 5. While circulating the Notification al their respective institutes, the Directors may also endorse a copy to IJSC staff representatives. 6. Hindi version ofthis Notification follows. Copy to: Yours faithfully, &f/. (N.S. Randhawa) Deputy Secretary (Admn) \. All the DDGs, ICAR, at KB and KAB/National Director, NATP 2. The Additional Secretary, Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance and Member(Finance), !CAR, North Block, New Delhi-1, with reference to his D.O. letter No,L-236/AS(E)/2000 dated 24 January 2000. 3. Special Assistant toChainnan, ASRB, with reference to D.O. No.50. 4/99-R.II dated 24 January 2000. 4. PS to Hon'ble AM/PS to Hon'b)e MOS(DAH&D) 5. All the ADGs/Director (P)/Director (Finance)/Director (DARE)/ Director (Works)/Director(Hindi), !CAR, at KB and KAB. 6. Sr PPS to Secy (DARE) and 00, !CAR/Staff Officer to DO !CAR/ PS to Secretary, lCAR/PS to FA, DAREllCAR 7. All Deputy Secretaries including Secretary ASRB/ All Deputy Directors/All Under Secretaries 66 ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES 8. All the F&AOs ofICAR Institutes 9. Secretary (Staff side), CJSC 10. Guard Fite/Spare Copies Sdl- (A.S. Sethi) Under-Secretary (Technical) ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES No.