 The milling byproduct generated in these mills can be utilized for edible purposes, provided the byproduct is clean and hygienic. Installation of grain washing systems and sifters at milling units will make more pulse protein available for the vegetarian population of the nation. *Corresponding author e-mail: pv.kanpur@gmail.com Water • Even though households are relatively low consumers of water, population growth and expanded water use have outweighed the effect of water saving technology and behavior. • Less than 3% of the world’s water is fresh (drinkable), of which 2.5% is frozen in the Antarctica, Arctic and glaciers. Humanity must therefore rely on 0.5% for all of man’s ecosystem’s and fresh water needs. • Man is polluting water faster than nature can recycle and purify water in rivers and lakes. More than one billion people still do not have access to fresh water. • Excessive use of water contributes to the global water stress. Water is free from nature but the infrastructure needed to deliver it is expensive. - See more at: http://www.unep.org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 15 February 2024 Harnessing the digital technologies for reaching the unreached: Case of pulse crops Uma Sah1, Devraj1, Jitendra Ojha1 and G P Dixit1* 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 024 The digital ecosystem of India is witnessing an exponential growth, offering numerous advantages to different sections of society. Digital initiatives in current times have completely revolutionized the information flow in cost and time effective manner in unprecedented ways, changing people’s lives in every sphere. Indian Agriculture has also been impacted by the digital revolution, ushering in positive changes in farmers’ capacities for taking informed decisions in timely manner. This article describes the digital tools employed by IIPR for reaching the farmers. Keywords: App, Digital, Pulses, Technologies T HE dynamic, vast and varied nature of information needs of farmers operating in different socio-economic as well as agro- climatic conditions in the country, superimposed with regional and personnel preferences for agricultural crops and allied sectors, warrants a complex and efficient flow of information between the information generation nodes and its utilization centres. Information empowerment of farming community with respect to the outcomes of scientific experimentation and their applications in real field conditions is the crux of improved productivity and sustainability of Indian agriculture. This is particularly relevant in context of the need to minimize the time lag between technological advancement and their application at field conditions.