 Application of gypsum gave low residual effect than SSP and bentonite. 5.4 Molybdenum requirement of maize‐ niger sequence • Information is limited on Mo deficiency and its correction. So field experiment was initiated at RARS, Chintapalli in a Mo deficient acid soil to know the direct and residual effects of Mo in maize‐niger cropping system at high altitude zone. Results indicated that foliar spray of 0.1 per cent sodium molybdate after applying lime to soil initially proved to be better in increasing in the yields of maize (37%), while in rabi soil application of 0.25 kg ha‐1 sodium molybdate to maize and niger after liming the soil was found beneficial in niger and showed a yield response of 40 percent. Significant difference in Mo content and built up of Mo in the soils was recorded with Mo levels . . 5.5 Integrated nutrient management for different cropping systems and effect on quality • In Ustipsamment of Badaun, the optimum dose of Zn fertilizer rice (cv. PD‐10) was found 5.83 kg Zn/ha. Application of Zn improved yield attributes, seed yield and oil content in following mustard (cv. Kranti). Application of Zn increased the grain yield of rice and also increased protein and amylose content of milled rice. In Pearlmillet ‐ wheat rotation, application of 2.5 kg Zn +5 tonnes FYM ha‐1 gave highest yields. Applications of zinc (2.5 kg Zn ha‐1) together with 5 tonnes FYM ha‐1 were much effective in increasing grain yields in Pearl millet‐wheat system. Under rice‐wheat rotation,. application of 2.5 kg Zn + 5 t FYM ha‐ 1 after two crop cycles was found optimum. • In a 3 yrs study, fertilizer use efficiency of Zn‐using low doses of organics in rice‐wheat rotation in Mollisol of Tarai indicated that application of Zn @ 1.25, 2.5 and 5.0 kg Zn enriched to 200 kg cow dung ha‐I increased the pooled grain yield of rice significantly by 17.62, 26.06 and 24.32 per cent over NPK control, respectively. No significant response of Zn application was recorded on the subsequent wheat crop. • Field studies to develop IPNS technology for ameliorating zinc deficiency in sugarcane ratoon system at Bareilly showed that total millable cane yield of both main and ratoon crop was significantly higher on application of 2.5 tonnes PMC along with 5.5 kg Zn ha‐1 . The yield was statistically at par with the highest millable cane yield recorded for treatment receiving 10 tonnes PMC + 11 kg Zn ha‐1 . • Soil application of borax at 0.25 to 1.0 kg B ha‐1 to maize significantly increased the grain yield in over NPK. Application of 1.0 kg B ha‐1 to each of maize and groundnut crops gave significantly higher yield and showed higher buildup in the available boron in the soil. www.icar.org.in 66 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management • Ludhiana center observed a significant seed yield increase of Holea sarson from 140‐220 kg ha‐I (10.9 15.6%) to the application of 20‐40 kg S ha‐1.