 Unfortunately, the COVID-19 pandemic struck and the nationwide lockdown prevented her from taking care of the farm. The vines did not survive. Brand LURO is launched Despite the setback brought about by the pandemic, she stuck to her aim of introducing her product to the market. She went about sourcing inputs such as bottles and caps and spent time learning to design the product label on her own. She also learned about FSSAI guidelines for different food products including fermented beverages. In 2022, she obtained the FSSAI registration for her product and by December 2022, Sentiben launched her product – LURO which translates to ‘Harvest’. It is derived from the Ao Naga word ‘Alurowa’ meaning ‘the time of harvest’. Aptly so, considering the success she has achieved while reaping the fruit of many years of passion, learning, skill development, and dedication. She describes her product as a small batch, homegrown, handpicked, and handcrafted. Each bottle of 750 ml fetched her a price of 1,200, which reinstated her belief in obtaining higher revenues and better income by integrating grape farming with processing in high- quality winemaking. Looking to the future Ms Sentiben looks back with pride to the day she procured the cuttings of Pusa Navrang from ICAR-IARI, Delhi. Her journey from planting through vine care to winemaking, and ultimately launching her product has been one of multi-disciplinary learning and skill development. Her agri- preneural tryst has made her feel empowered and confident. While the pandemic did bring about some setbacks, she is determined to follow her dreams. She intends to undergo training and skill development to further refine and improve her crop production and processing techniques. Product diversification to beverages and raisins is another area where she has set her mind on; while also considering other fruits and vegetables. Her immediate plan, however, is to go for a farm expansion to ramp up production. This is where she plans to bring more women folk on board whose cooperation would help the venture grow and also help each member progress. She also intends to seek assistance under the PMFME and MSME scheme of the government of India through which she hopes to upscale her venture. She also hopes to connect and build a network with similar small-scale processors. SUMMARY Technologies and varieties developed in research institutions are, at most times, promoted to bring about visible impact on a mass scale. However, the true value Rooted cuttings prepared from the mother plants and their planting along walls Display of labelled bottled red wine – LURO Indian Horticulture 34 For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1620 Price : ` 2000 Postage : ` 200 ISBN No.