 As of now the pace and quality of technology generation and human capacity building in most of the SAUs have slackened owing mainly to inadequate state funding, depleted faculty strength, inadequate faculty development programmes, lack of competence of existing faculty in new and emerging areas, extensive inbreeding in faculty, lack of modern infra- structure for education and research. Establishment of new and sectoral state agricultural universities and new colleges without matching resources has compounded the problem. Based upon the review and lessons learnt from earlier project, and a perspective built on existing concerns and emerging scenario, the present proposal makes a mission statement, outlines objectives, strategies and activities to be covered to make Agricultural Education attractive, demand-driven and rewarding. The proposal also provides details on budgetary needs and guiding criteria to select SAUs and DUs for inclusion in the Project. The project would help to implement strategic reforms in the existing system in India to produce the required professionals. The reforms focusing on effective governance, quality assurance, promotion of excellence, openness and linkages and improved services to stakeholders would lead to sustainability and responsiveness of the system. It will also assist in increased access, equity and competitiveness in higher agricultural education. 1.1. Agricultural Education in India 1.1.1. Evolution of Higher Agricultural Education Agricultural education system in India distinctly evolved during pre independence era on the British system of education and post-independence era on the US Land Grant Colleges pattern. The available records show that the earliest agriculture college was established at Saidapet (near to present day Chennai city) in 1877. It was followed by setting up of the first Veterinary College in the undivided India at Lahore (now in Pakistan) in 1882. A three-year Veterinary Science course was started in 1884 at Parel, Bombay. It was in 1889, when real beginning of research started with the launch of an Imperial Bacteriological College at Poona. Besides those mentioned above, some more Veterinary Colleges were founded at Calcutta (1893) and Madras (1903). Also as a sequel to the 1876-78 famine, Lord Curzon - the then Viceroy of India (1898-1905), realized that the government must pay priority and urgent attention to the development of agriculture. Thus, in the beginning of the 20th century, an Agricultural Research Institute each at Pusa in Darbhanga district (now Samastipur) of Bihar (subsequently named Imperial and now Indian Agricultural Research Institute) and Coimbatore in the present-day Tamil Nadu were established in 1905. Agricultural 5 Colleges were also established at Kanpur, Lyalpur (now in Pakistan) and Nagpur in 1906, Poona in 1907 and Sabour in 1908.