 The complete technology of breeding and seed production of silver moony was developed and is ready for transfer and entrepreneurship development. Captive breeding and seed production of an important food fish, Mangrove red snapper, Lutjanus argentima culatus, was successfully undertaken, which not only Mangrove red snapper, Lutjanus argentima culatus and its different stages of development is a suitable species for farming in brackish water ponds and open cages, but it also grows fast, tolerates a wide range of salinities and accepts pelleted feed. Three rare and endemic fish species from Western Ghats, viz. Nilgiri Mystus Hemibagrus punctatus, Clarias dussumieri and Peninsular carp Puntius kolus LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 61 (also called Hypselobarbus kolus) were collected from the wild, developed to broodstock and successfully bred in captivity. Maze rabbit fish/ vermiculated spine foot, Siganus vermiculatus, a marine herbivore fish was successfully induced bred and further successful larval rearing was undertaken with manipulation of water quality parameters and feeding protocols. For breeding, the wild-captured fishes were reared in the sea-cage farm. On attaining maturity, brooders were transferred to the hatchery complex and induced bred. The estimated fecundity was about 1.8 lakh eggs. Eggs were demersal and adhesive which hatched after 24 Haul of milk fish Male Puntius kolus Female Puntius kolus Hemibagrus punctatus Adult maze rabbit fish h, with >80% hatching rate. The green-water technique was used for egg incubation and larval rearing. Copepod, Parvocalanus crassirostris, rotifers (S type and L type), Artemia and artificial pellet were used during larviculture. The larvae attained metamorphosis at 2.5–2.8 cm total length after 36 days of rearing and survival of 12% was recorded after 60 days. Developed portable FRP pabda hatchery: Designed and fabricated a portable fiber glass reinforced plastics (FRP) hatchery for pabda (Ompok bimaculatus). The hatchery consists of three cylindro-vertical hatching/incubation pools placed one above other on a triangular iron frame and three rearing tanks of a specific design. It possesses the capacity to accommodate 45,000–50,000 fertilized eggs, which produce 10,000–15,000 early fry in a single cycle. After successful evaluation and validation, the hatchery was released. Multiple stocking and multiple harvesting (MSMH) model for milkfish farming: Milkfish, Chanos chanos, a herbivorous fish, is an ideal species for low input based brackish water fish farming. By adopting multiple stocking and multiple harvesting (MSMH) farming models with milkfish, the productivity could be increased in small and traditional ponds. Stocked with the fingerlings of 10–12 g at the stocking density of 7,500–15,000/ha and fed with formulated feed (CP 30%) @ 3–4% of body weight, the fish attained a size of 120 g after 90 days of culture period.