 Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 40 Sowing castor by dibbling Farmers are experimenting with cultivation of castor as a ratoon crop (lopping off a plant but leaving enough base for regrowth) by dibbling (manual soil drilling for seeding) the seed at 240 cm × 240 cm in pits of 30 cm × 30 cm filled with manure, castor cake and diammonium phosphate. Farmers also grow Lucerne (Medicago sativa) as an intercrop for seed production (Jangra, North Gujarat). Patel (1992i) 41 Establishment of crop stand under rainfed conditions by early seeding, dry seeding and transplanting Early sowing is crucial requirement for majority of rainfed crops during rainy season (kharif). Farmers tend to sow much area with first soaking showers. Farmers practice broadcasting seeds of paddy, finger millet in uplands of Orissa. Dry seeding of rainy season (kharif) sorghum in black soils of Malwa plateau is done in Madhya Pradesh. Transplanting of cotton seedlings (with spot irrigation) about 7 to10 days before monsoon rains is done in Vidharba region. Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 26 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference Plough and plant system is done by Telangana farmers for sorghum to save additional ploughing operation after soaking rains (Orissa, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and Andhra Pradesh). 42 Sowing of finger millet seed with fertilizer for saving labour and nutrient supply in root zone Finger millet seeds are mixed with granular DAP or complex fertilizers at 1:3 (weight basis) and sown in rows by using Saddle and Seed drill. It saves labour and ensures nutrients to the root zone (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 43 Use of higher seed rate for early maturity of wheat The farmers of Junagarh have developed an understanding that use of higher seed rate of wheat (about 200 to 250 kg/ha) enhance the vegetative growth of the crop and reduces the duration by at least 8 to 10 days. This has been ascribed and acclimatized to the factor that water level in the wells goes down towards the maturity of wheat crop, particularly at the beginning of summer season and number of watering due to early maturity of wheat can be reduced (Junagarh, Gujarat). Mane (1992) 44 Crop rotation with barley and buckwheat Rotation starts with barley in the first year and buckwheat during the second year. The rotation sequence is governed by the quantity of available manure. Usually one third of the total holding is thoroughly manured during the year for barley cultivation. In the following year the soil retains a good deal of fertility for buckwheat for which no additional manure is added. In the third year, in the same field wheat is sown. The remaining two thirds of the holdings are similarly treated in succession. Barley requires heavy doses of organic manure. However the organic content of the soil after the harvesting of barley is sufficient to raise a good produce of millets, followed by wheat (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh).