  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code : 240 Title of the ITK : Effect of soaking of Solanaceous vegetable seeds in butter milk on germination Description of the ITK : The germination percentage of solanaceous tropical vegetables such as tomato, brinjal and chilli is increased by the application of this practice. A mixture of 10 ml of 3 days old buttermilk is mixed with 40 ml water and kept aside for 3 days. The mixture is ready for use. Seeds of solanaceous vegetables are soaked in this mixture for 6 hours and the treated seeds are dried under shade to remove excess moisture. Germination percentage may be 80%. Local variety of tomato Co 3 is best suited to the treatment. The practice is applicable only for 6 to 12 months old seeds. If seeds are treated by this method, germination percentage is increased to 80% under laboratory condition and 60% under field condition. If the seeds are not treated, the germination percentage under laboratory condition may be 20% and under the field condition 5%.Sometimes coconut or palmyra toddy is used as a substitute to buttermilk. Name and address of the discloser : Dr. S. Sendur Kumaran, Asst. Professor (Horticulture), Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Science University, Kundrakudi, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 630 206 Location of use of the ITK : Paras/Devakottai, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) Geographical indicators : Common name : Chilli Botanical name : Capsicum frutescens Family : Solanaceae Description Numerous varieties of chillies exist. The primary separating characteristics are based upon flower and seed colour, shape of the calyx, the number of flowers per node and their orientation. Country Latin America, India, Indonesia, Africa, China Common name : Tomato Botanical name : Lycopersicon esculentum Family : Solanaceae  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Description Growth varies between the so-called "indeterminate" and "determinate" habits. Cultivars with "determinate" (bush type) growth are the most commonly grown field crops for processing or fresh market. The maximum possible height at harvest is 2 m, but usually the crop stops at a height of 1.50_1.80 m. The "indeterminate" (or vine type) cultivars are used mainly in greenhouses but are grown in the field as a "staked" crop. In the field, the final height does not exceed 2 m and depends on weather conditions and cultural techniques. These cultivars can, however, under protection grow to more than 10 m in a year. Tomato leaves are produced regularly and grow initially with parallel log growth curves. Between about 7 and 11 leaves are formed before the apex is transformed into a terminal inflorescence. Further growth is from the leaf axils. The size of the compound leaf is variable. The leaves are typically 0.5 meters long, slightly less wide, with a large terminal leaflet and 6, 8 or usually 10 large lateral leaflets. The primary tap or seminal root may grow deeper than 0,5 m while the root zone extends to a diameter of more than 1.5 m.