 ™ ™ Promoting fertilizer management in different crops based on soil health card/soil test values for reducing excessive application of fertilizers especially urea. 2. Promotion of drip, sprinkler irrigation system and water saving technologies for increased water use efficiency Replacement of tradition flood method of irrigation with furrow method of irrigation in Broad Bed Furrow (BBF), Bed Planting and Furrow Irrigated Raised Bed (FIRB) systems for improving irrigation efficiency by 40-50% and production by 20 to 25% over flat method of crop establishment. 616 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan 3. Incentivise protected/ polyhouse cultivation with micro- irrigation for high value off- season vegetables and flower production. Promoting micro-irrigation like drip irrigation with fertigation concept in high value crops like protected vegetables and flowers cultivation, orchard and sprinkler irrigation in undulating topography for improving irrigation efficiency by 60 to 80%. Incentivization of improvised low-cost drip irrigation system to the small land-holders. ™ ™ Adoption of spaced sugarcane planting techniques (SPT) for quick multiplication for increasing production by 25-30% by saving the canes normally used for seed purpose. ™ ™ Adoption of bud-chip/cane node technology and deep trench method (up to 1m) of planting technique which may increase production by 20-30%. 4. Target to achieve 175% cropping intensity from existing 150% ™ ™ Popularizing short duration summer mung after wheat as catch crop for increasing cropping intensity, total system production by 10-15% and soil health. ™ ™ Inclusion of short duration lentil, linseed and rapeseed & mustard as a rotation crop in rice-fallow areas under Eastern Plain zone for increasing cropping intensity and total system production by 15-20%. 5. Crop diversification and intensification as risk mitigating mechanism. ™ ™ Promotion of crop diversification with fruits, vegetables, oilseed and pulses and crop intensification through adoption of intercropping for risk mitigation, providing complementary advantages and increase system production by 15-20% Promising Inter-cropping systems are listed in Table 38. 6. Rejuvenation of senile orchards for increasing productivity of fruit crops. Rejuvenation of senile orchards for increasing productivity in mango, guava, ber and aonla as most of the orchard in Uttar Pradesh is old. 617 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan 7. Strengthening seed chain of quality seeds of promising varieties and increasing seed replacement rate.