 ● A total of 7 NATP and 4 AICRP Projects have so far been sanctioned to the University and these projects are continuing. DEEMED-TO-BE-UNIVERSITIES National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal ● A Model Dairy plant with facility to process 60,000 litres of milk per day has been established with modern equipment for scaling up, testing of research results and for training of students and industry personnel. ● The Institute has provided centralised facilities for electron microscopy, molecular biology and several fine instrumental laboratories. The free access to these facilities motivates the scientists to carry out quality research and teaching. ● For innovative teaching, modern audio, video and visual equipment facilities have been provided to the various divisions. Sufficient number of personal computers are provided for use in research and teaching. ● Software packages have been developed for various dairy and farm operations, their management and analysis. AGRIUNIFEST ● In VCs’ Conference, apart from transaction on regular agenda on educational reforms, discussions centered around approach towards X Plan, Expectations of SAUs, Financial constraints in SAUs–ways and means to improve financial health of SAUs; Efficient University Governance; and three Committees constituted to bring out a document on these issues ● Faculty wise Veterinary college, GBPUA&T and Horticulture College, Velanikkara, KAU ranked first with 23 JRF each while for Agriculture, Agriculture College, Vellayani, KAU and Agriculture College, Coimbatore earned 17 and 15 JRF respectively ● Third Agricultural University Youth Fes- tival (AGRIUNIFEST) was organized at KAU, Thrissur, Kerala from January 19 to 25, 2002, where 12 SAUs partici- pated. KAU ranked first and AAU, Jorhat was adjudged second in the competition DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 156 ● Third All India Games and Sports Meet was organized at Rajasthan Agricultural University, Bikaner on November 3-8, 2001. A record number of (29) State Agricultural Universities participated ● The recommendations of Dr Kirti Singh Committee to support the institutions and Colleges outside the State Agricultural University system were published and sent to all State Agricultural Universities and private Agricultural Colleges throughout the country ● Special computer courses have been developed for dairying students. ● Scientists have prepared books, monographs and bulletins to supplement their teaching efforts. ● Scanning facility to about 35 to 40 research institutes/universities around the country are available at the Institutes computer centre which would shortly provide access to the information super high ways through satellite link to its user. ● Course contents and syllabi of all the programmes have been revised and updated during 2000-2001. ● Teachers of Department of Agricultural Economics and Business Management have brought out useful study materials.