38 million metric tonnes from an area of 0.94 million hectares in 2023. India’s export of banana represents only 0.6% of the world exports since most of the bananas grown in India are for the domestic market. Banana producers will have to adapt to potential challenges brought on by changing climatic conditions, such as increased incidences of storm, drought, and extreme heat event, as well as disease, if they are to remain viable. Improved water management in the sector is an important climate adaptation to be a sustainable production system as precipitation trend has becomes less reliable. Improving resource efficiency (water, fertilizers, machinery, and labour) in agriculture is a pressing global issue. According to estimates, G20 developed countries had higher natural resource use efficiency (0.9528) than developing nations (0.506), indicating that technological changes are the primary predictor of natural resource use efficiency. Water is a key input in fruit crops, and its use efficiency varies substantially depending on crop type, irrigation method, and local climate. In a study, it is revealed that the average WUE of banana, lemon, and mango in a semi-arid climate was 2.19, 1.58, and 1.58 kg/m3, respectively. Several researchers believed that instead of regular flooding the field and soil application of nutrients, deficit irrigation, micro-irrigation, sensor-based irrigation, and fertigation can be better alternatives to enhance both WUE and NUE in fruit crops. All things considered, drip irrigation and fertigation performed better than traditional techniques for applying water and nutrients. Nonetheless, recent advancements in sensor-based irrigation and fertigation have produced encouraging outcomes for a variety of field crops. This technology has more potential in fruit crops because these are all wide-spaced and perennial crops. The utilization of IoT-based irrigation can be a future technology to save water and nutrients. The applications of digital interface in banana are discussed below. IoT technology in horticulture The Internet of Things (IoT) encompasses a system of interconnected physical devices embedded with sensors, software and other technologies that enable them to collect and exchange data over the internet. In IoT, these devices interact with each other and centralised Indian Horticulture 18 systems, often autonomously, to improve efficiency, enabling automation and decision-making across various applications without human intervention. In agriculture, IoT refers to the integration of smart devices, sensors, and other technologies to collect, transmit, and analyse data related to various agricultural processes like precision farming, smart irrigation, livestock monitoring, greenhouse automation, supply chain monitoring to drones and remote sensing. Components of IoT The key components of IoT include devices or things, connectivity, data processing, a user interface and supporting technologies.