 Precising row ratio and time of sowing of relay crop of pigeonpea in groundnut: Groundnut pod yield, haulm yield, pigeonpea grain yield and groundnut pod equivalent yield was found higher with 3:1 ratio in groundnut+pigeonpea relay cropping system in both Spanish and Virginia bunch varieties. Pod yield of groundnut was recorded higher when pigeonpea was relay sown at 30 and 50 days after sowing in Virginia bunch and Spanish varieties, respectively. Pigeonpea grain yield and groundnut pod equivalent yield was found significantly higher with relay sowing of pigeonpea at 30 days after sowing of groundnut in both type of varieties. Conservation Agriculture in cropping systems: The impact of Conservation Agriculture in groundnut + pigeonpea and groundnut + cotton cropping systems in light black soils was studied. Groundnut pod and haulm yield was found highest with normal tillage, pigeonpea grain yield and stover yield was highest under conventional tillage while seed cotton yield and stalk yield was higher under minimum tillage. Groundnut pod equivalent yield was significantly higher with normal tillage, being at par with minimum tillage. Groundnut + pigeonpea cropping system was found to give significantly higher groundnut pod yield, haulm yield and groundnut pod equivalent yield over groundnut + cotton intercropping system. Zinc-solubilizing microorganisms for mobilizing Zn in groundnut crop: Twenty-seven potential Zn solubilizing bacteria and six fungal isolates were evaluated in vitro for their capacity to solubilize insoluble zinc phosphate. The solubilization index (SI) among the bacterial isolates ranged from 0.07 to 2.28 and that of DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 66 Response of sowing date of irrigated wheat to amount of rainfall during crop growing stage in the mid-Himalayas Early sowing of irrigated wheat for the potential grain yield Optimization of sowing date of irrigated wheat for changing climate was assessed by conducting five years’ experiment with different sowing dates and four popular varieties in the mid-Himalayas. It is clearly proved that lesser the rainfall during crop growing stage, the earlier was the date of sowing to achieve maximum grain yield and vice versa in the mid- Himalayas. The highest grain yield with seasonal rainfall of 75 mm was recorded under 25 October sowing. The sowing on 25 October during the seasonal rainfall of 75 mm (5,669 kg/ha) provided 12% higher grain yield compared to recommended mid-November sowing. It was estimated that the rainfall of 223 mm during crop growing season was optimum for wheat. November 9 is the optimum sowing time for the optimum rainfall of 223 mm. Yield loss of 28 kg grain/ ha/day for sowing during second fortnight of November is estimated in the northern hill zone. CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 67 fungal isolates ranged from 0.01 to 0.72.