 While carrying out the 1st earthing up, 200 kg Urea and 50 kg MOP per hectare is to be top dressed. Application of nitrogenous fertilizer is to be completed within 90 -100 days of planting. b. Jute varieties such as Tarun and JRO 524 can be sown up to the month of May with seed rate of 5 – 6 kg/ha for line sowing and 6 – 7 kg/ha for broadcast. c. Jute crops sown during March – April, thinning of the plants should be done 3 – 4 weeks after emergence. One hand weeding is to be done at the time of thinning. To dressing of fertilizer (N & P) is also needed at 4 – 6 weeks after sowing. Hairy caterpillar egg masses and caterpillars are to be handpicked and destroyed. For semiloopers, perches may be fixed in jute field or nearby areas for predatory birds to sit on. Insecticides can also be applied. d. Time of sowing of Mesta crop is up to mid May. Seed rate is 13 – 15 kg/ha for line sowing and 18 – 20 kg/ha for broadcast crop. Spacing is 30 cm between rows and 15 cm between plants. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 81 e. Fodder crops can be cultivated during May - June. Important grass fodder crops are Dinanath grass, Maize fodder, Teosinte, Hybrid Napier, Setaria grass, Guinea grass etc. Legume fodder crops like Cow pea (fodder type) and Rice bean can be sown up to the month of May. f. Optimum sowing time of kharif oilseed crop ‘Sesamum’ is July to 1st fortnight of August. Important varieties are ST 1683, Koliabor local, AST 1 etc. Excess rain water to be drained out through surface drainage channel of 25cm wide, 15cm deep spaced at 6 m. g. Sowing time of Black gram and Green gram during kharif season is mid August to mid September. Important Black gram varieties are PU19, PU 31 etc. Newly developed black gram varieties are Beki (SB 27-3) and Kolong (SB 25-19) which are recommended for late sowing up to 30 September. The other four blackgram varieties Viz., Sonkush (SB 23-5), Manas (SB 32- 13), SBC 40 and SBC 47 are recommended for normal sowing. Important Green gram variety recommended for Assam is Pratap. Other newly recommended Green gram varieties are SGC 16 which is recommended for both summer and kharif season while the other two viz., SGC 20 and Sonai (SG 21-5) are recommended for kharif season. All the three varieties are resistant to Cercospora Leaf Spot (CLS) and Yellow Mosaic Virus (YMV). h. Recommended planting time of betel vine is May – August. It is propagated by terminal stem cutting obtained from mature mother vines. Before planting, soil should be treated with formalin solution (4%) by sprinkling @ 3 litre per sqm of soil and covered with polythene sheets or moist gunny bags for 24 hours. Planting should not be done for 15 -20 days following formalin treatment. i. Assam lemon can be planted during May to August. Well drained loamy soil, free from water logging should be selected. Stem cutting, leaf bud cutting and air layering are the propagating materials. One year old rooted cutting is the best planting material.