 Dry-matter stress index (DMSI) showed a highly significant correlation with yield under stressed condition. Crop Diversification in Canal Command of High-rainfall Area Kharif rice followed by dry season rice is the cropping sequence commonly pursued in canal irrigation commands of coastal Orissa. Studies were conducted with the objectives of diversification and intensification of crops with increased employment and economic return by modification of microenvironment through land shaping in this area. The experiment was carried out in dry season in the farmers’ field at Balipatna block, Khurda, Orissa under Nimapara Branch Canal of Mahanadi delta. The fields were converted into alternate sunken and raised beds (50 : 50), with raised beds 60-cm higher than the adjacent sunken beds. Among different cropping sequences in modified land, rice + cabbage – malabar spinach produced the highest rice-equivalent yield (21.61 tonnes/ha), followed by the rice + tomato – ridge gourd sequence (16.74 tonnes/ha) and rice + cabbage (15.14 tonnes/ha). Rice alone in the modified land produced only 3.19 tonnes/ha. The highest net return and benefit : cost ratio (BCR) was recorded in rice + cabbage–malabar spinach sequence (3.01). The least BCR (1.13) and net return were recorded in unmodified land. Crop diversification with increasing cropping intensity, profitability and water- use efficiency is possible in high-rainfall, shallow-watertable areas of canal command with the adoption of alternate raised- and sunken-bed system. Integrated Rice-Fish Farming in Rainfed Ecosystem In the rainfed system, in-situ conservation of rainwater in rice fields by optimum weir height, conserving excess water in the refuges constructed at the down stream of rice field and rearing of fish in the refuges in medium land enhanced the productivity. Initially the study was carried out at the Research Farm, WTCER, Deras, Khurda, and demonstrated in 6 farmers’ fields at Sadeiberini village of l The database designs of Water Resources Information Systems of Bihar and Jharkhand were completed. l PBW 443, K 8047 and RW 927 wheat varieties were identified as drought tolerant. l Crop diversification with profitability is workable in canal commands of coastal Orissa with the adoption of alternate raised- and sunken-bed system. l Zero-tillage and raised-bed planting systems helped in considerable water saving in wheat. l Multiple use of irrigation water, e.g. for fish culture and cultivation of crops advocated. l Performance study of one type of sprinkler system was conducted under various operating pressures. l Low-energy water application device has been designed, developed and evaluated. It has been promising even at low-operating pressures. l Integration of rice farming with fish increased productivity. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 77 Dhenkanal, Orissa.