65 mg/l) spiked with metals: Fe (5 ppm), Mn (2 ppm), Cu (2 ppm), Zn (2 ppm), Ni (2 ppm), Cr (5 ppm), and Pb (2 ppm) was treated for a period of 37 weeks at two differing flow rates of 50±2 and 26±3 ml/h for testing the performance of Graphite, Gravel and FRP biofilters for metal removal. The COD and sulphate removal were up to 100% and 70%, respectively with highest in graphite. Fe, Zn, Ni, Cr, Pb concentrations in effluent were 0.1–0.15 ppm, attributed to biosorption and bio- chemical precipitation. Manganese removal, generally problematic as requires elevated pH (>8), differed considerably in graphite (40–72%), FRP (32–62%) and gravel (60–80%), respectively. This was also due to composition of material. SiO2 shows good adsorption for Mn and so gravel filter is effective for it. Microbial consortia for improving soil health: The liquid formulation of microbial consortia was developed for rapid development of compost from bio-wastes. Compost quality standard has been assessed and it was found that compost is ready for field application after 20 days from kitchen and vegetable waste followed by horticultural waste compost (30 days) and farm waste (45 days). The developed bio filters using selective fungi were effective for elicitation of Zn (~30%) and Ni (>30), Pb (>40%), Cd (>20%) and therefore improve the quality of compost. The manurial value of compost was enriched by using 0.5% Urea-N, 2.5% P2O5 through rock phosphate, 5% Pyrites Formation of micro channel and cavities in thermally degraded bio-material Lactic acid bacteria based biorefineries for converting agro and food based biomass: Lactic acid bacteria based bio refineries for converting agro and food based biomass into PLA and high value-added products, an enzymatic process for the production of polylactides was developed. Purified lactic acid (LA) was used for the synthesis of poly-lactic acid (PLA), a biodegradable and biocompatible plastic by enzymatic method. PLA is a high value-added product synthesized from LA. PLA was characterized by NMR, FTIR, TGA, XRD, SEM, and diffraction scanning calorimetry. Furthermore, foods with improved organoleptic and nutraceutical properties were prepared by using co-products polyols, GABA, and EPS. Encapsulation of GABA and LAB using exopolysaccharides as a coating agent was carried out and its stability study under different process conditions was evaluated. Shelf-stable microcapsules of LAB and GABA containing inulin and dextran as wall materials were prepared using spray drying technology. Spray drying produced a highly stable microcapsule of desirable flowability with higher encapsulation efficiency (99.6%). Production and processing of microalgal biomass for biodiesel: Among different microalgal species Chlorella minutissima was a good lipid accumulator. Anabaena variabilis is rich in carbohydrate content, whereas Oscillatoria formosa, Calothrix sp. and Spirulina subsalsa are rich in protein + carbohydrate contents.