 ●KVK should have state-of-the-art communication facilities, library, laboratory equipments, office equipments, farm implements, machineries and tools, and small weather station for carrying out efficiently day-to-day activities. ●KVK should have a provision for minimum required vehicles (one four wheeler and 2 two wheelers) for effective functioning, including field visits to the farmers’ fields. (c) Utilization of infrastructure ●Infrastructural facilities created at KVK should be put to use for the purpose it has been created. Logbook and asset register be maintained for each of the movable and immovable property at the KVK. ●The revenue generated by the KVK should be allowed to be utilized for the development of KVK facilities, and it be properly accounted for. 18 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 4.3 Co-ordination, implementation and monitoring 4.3.1 Guidelines for co-ordination and monitoring National level: The Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) is the head functioning at the head quarter for all extension related activities at national level. He has overall responsibility for co-ordination, monitoring and implementation of activities by KVKs in different zones. In order to exercise this role, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) is assisted by Assistant Directors-General, Principal Scientists, Deputy Secretary (Agricultural Extension) and Zonal Project Directorates. (a) Technical ●Technical activities envisaged in the EFC document with specific annual targets should form the basis for regular monitoring and review. ●The monthly reports submitted by ZPDs need to be reviewed for tracking the progress in mandated activities and to suggest measures for improvement. ●Agricultural Extension Division of ICAR must organize quarterly review meetings with all Zonal Project Directors for effective review and monitoring of KVK activities. ●Conduct annual review with Zonal Project Directors and compile information on progress vis- à-vis targets set so as to use it for the preparation of Annual Report of DARE. ●Organize National Conference of KVKs every year with the main aim of having an interface between KVKs and the policy makers, administrators, technocrats, farm innovators and other stakeholders. The Conference needs to be planned three years in advance by specifying the specific theme, location, national and local organizing committees so as to ensure successful organization each year.