 Such a system may be a very good option for uninterrupted electricity supply to remote villages not connected with state power supply grid and are located in windy regions. The power may be used for domestic, community and industrial applications. Biomass Gas Stove The TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on RES developed a natural convection updraft type biomass gas stove for applications in rural household cooking, cottage industries and small commercial and community applications. The biomass gas stove consists of a hollow cylindrical body with its top open and bottom closed. The bottom is provided with an air opening and a shutter-cum-ash removal door. The top of the cylinder has provision for placing the vessel for cooking. The main fuels used were arecanut husk, casurina logs and coconut branches. The duration of flame obtained by loading 6 kg of arecanut husk and pieces of caesarean log and coconut branches were 75 min., 135 min. and 85 min., respectively. The study revealed that the time saved in cooking operation was around 40%. The saving in fuel consumption varied between 20 and 30%. Generation and Purification of Hydrogen from Biomass and Evaluation with Alkaline Fuel Cell At CIAE, Bhopal a 2.5 kW capacity down draft gasifier was used to generate producer gas for conversion of CO and H2O into H2. An experimental set-up was developed for optimizing the steam and gas flow rate in high temperature shift reactor for conversion. The reactor of 700 mm height and 30 mm diameter was fabricated with the provision to measure the temperature of reactor at different stages. The heating of reactor was accomplished by wrapping with 2.0 kW electric heating coil. The reactor was insulated using glass fibre of 50 mm thickness. The temperature of the reactor was controlled by changing the potential (v) in the heating element. The voltage was optimized to 65 V to 100 V to maintain the temperature of HT reactor, and the variation of voltage from 65 V to 100 V was sufficient in maintaining the reactor temperature in the range of 250° to 350°C. A commercial pressure vessel AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 149 BIOGAS GENERATION FROM KITCHEN WASTE was modified to generate steam required for supply to HT reactor. The output and steam temperature was monitored at different pressure. The optimum flow observed was 8.4 to 9.7 l/min. The initial experimental results shows that production of H2 in above experimental set-up varied from 59.2 to 67.1% with gas steam flow ratio of 1 : 3. ORP Trials on Improved Chulha The PDKV, Akola; MPUAT, Udaipur and SPCW, Courtallam Centres of AICRP on RES carried out ORP trials on improved models of fixed type smokeless chulhas.