 Supply side interventions have hitherto been the main o Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 strategy for public investment in R&D. This needs to change. There should be equal emphasis on both supply side interventions and demand based investments. Around 10 sectors of high impact potential will be identified for directed STI intervention and deployment of requisite resources. Enabling policy instruments that facilitate both institutional research and R&D enterprises to focus their efforts in these areas will be put in place. The complex value chain of innovation - from idea to market - often calls for STI intervention at all levels: research, technology inputs, manufacturing and services. In the priority areas of socio-economic importance, the policy will enable a holistic approach to intervention, support and investment. Measures taken in this direction will be in consonance with the programmes initiated by the NlnC. R&D policy for agriculture is articulated by the Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR). Integration of the agriculture R&D policy with the national R&D system and the STI policy will be brought about. STI inputs to the manufacturing sector can lead to enhanced employment generation. The innovation ecosystem for the sector, however, depends on the nature and size of the enterprise and the context. India's share of global trade in high technology products is at present only Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 0 around 8% and the present technology intensity of the sector is a low of 6-7%. The aim is to double these through greater technology inputs from R&D. A strategic selection of some industry sectors, where India can aspire for leadership, would be made for stepping up R&D intensity and increase India's share in high-technology trade. Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) generally have low R&D intensity. Special schemes to support R&D as well as related services at the firm or collective level, will be devised and put in place. The R&D intensity of the service sector is generally low. This needs to be enhanced considerably and the skill base also expanded significantly. For rapidly accomplishing the tasks of modernization of technology-based services, missions in some select service sector areas, will be identified. Deployment of technology-led services for transparent Government machinery will also be supported. Climate variability and change is of global concern and India has articulated a National Action Plan for Climate Change (NAPCC) and identified several national missions. The STI system will have an active role in these missions. It will also serve as a source of strategic knowledge to cope with the challenges of climate variability and change as well as to meet equity-based differentiated and shared responsibilities of India.