 A total of 68 post-entry quarantine inspections were carried out by Plant Quarantine scientists for imported consignments at indentors’ site and in virtual mode. A total of 974 samples were processed for export, by issuing 10 Phytosanitary Certificates. DNA fingerprinting Plants: During the period under report, 158 samples of agri-horticultural crops were DNA profiled from different public and private sector organizations. The crops in which these were profiled included paddy, wheat, barley, pearl millet, maize, oats, pea, french bean, cowpea, blackgram, greengram, horse gram, Dolichos bean, soybean, mustard, sesame, linseed, hot pepper, okra, brinjal, tomato, fenugreek, fennel, Chenopodium, and walnut. The status of total collection in National Genomic Resource Repository (NGRR) is 9,094 from 46 species (http://www.nbpgr.ernet.in:8080/NPGRR/ Home.aspx) till 30 September 2021. The whole genome sequence of cardamom (Elettaria cardamom) variety Njallani Green Gold has been assembled at a N50 of ~151 kb with 72% BUSCO completeness. Genome wide SSR markers in cardamom have been identified, characterized, validated (136) and utilized for diversity analysis (86 accessions). GM testing services were provided for 28 samples (22 consignments) received from public/private sector. The 37 imported GM samples were tested for specific transgenic elements and to ensure absence of terminator gene technology.The scope of accreditation (ISO/IEC 17025:2017) of GM Detection Research Facility was enhanced to GM testing of oils. Microbes: To maintain the authenticity of biopesticides and to check the spurious and substandard products, the CIB&RC has included molecular identification and DNA fingerprint as mandatory requirement for registration and recognized ICAR- NBAIM as the nodal agency for developing DNA fingerprints of microbial cultures to be registered as biopesticides. More than 300 samples from more than 100 companies and biopesticide units under SAUs have been processed for fingerprinting at NBAIM. The samples mainly contained Trichoderma harzianum, T. asperallum, Beauveria bassiana, Metarhizium anisopliae, Verticillum lecanii, V. chlamydosporium, Paecilomyces lilacinus, Pseudomonas fluorescens, Bacillus thuringiensis, B. subtilis, etc. Insects: Molecular characterization and DNA barcoding of 117 insects were carried out. The genomes of cotton leafhopper, Amrasca biguttula biguttula, four entomopathogenic nematodes (EPNs) and two Bacillus thuringiensis strains have been sequenced and assembled. In addition, mitochondrial genome sequencing of four EPNs and stage specific transcriptome sequencing of 23 insect samples have been undertaken for the study of gene functions. Plant germplasm registration: The 42nd, 43rd and 44th Plant Germplasm Registration Committee (PGRC) meetings were conducted online through GRIS (Germplasm Registration Information System).