3 % on dry leaves fill the gap before irrigation and use 90 kg nitrogen per hectare near roots Š Š To control black ant in ratoon of sugarcane kept in February-March spray 200 ml of Imidachloropid (17.8% SL) dissolve in 625 liters of water along with 3-5% urea based on number of leaves. Š Š Remove the start and root borer infected plant Š Š If the cane is planted after gram,pea, Masoor,etcirrigate immediately and prepare the field. If possible use only 1/3 upper part of Cane and salt. Soak the salt in water overnight cut the piece of 2-3 buds and treat with 0.1% percent of carbendazim. Planting the cane at a distance of 60 cm apart. Š Š Use 10 kg of acetobacter and 10 kg PSB per hectare near the root and hoe it after irrigation. Š Š Hoe by spade or cultivator for weed control. Š Š Irrigate three to four times as required after 15 to 20 days. Š Š light irrigation at a small interval is beneficial. Activities in May: Š Š After irrigation in sugar sugarcane planted in February-March, top dressing near root zone by 50 kg nitrogen (110 kg urea) and hoe. Š Š Destroy the egg of top, shoot, and root borer with leaves. cut the infected plant to near the surface Š Š if the ratoon is infected by Black insect spray the imidacloprid (17.8% SL) 200 ml per hectare dissolve in 625-liter water along with 5% urea solution. Moisture is a must at Spraying. Š Š Irrigate the late planted cane and Hoe for weeding. Š Š It will save fertilizer and improve yield by 10-12 %. Activities in June Š Š Spring and late planted cane, urea is not top-dressed than irrigate and apply 60 kg nitrogen per hectare. Make sure to apply all fertilizer by June. Most of Urea is destroying if applied in the rainy season. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 60 Š Š Top dress near the root zone of ratoon cane by remaining 90 kg N/ha (200 kg urea). Š Š Earth lightly in winter planted can. Š Š Irrigate at 15-20 days interval if no rain. Š Š Apply 2.5 Trichogrammajaponicum card containing 50,000 adult parasites per ha for biological control of top borer. This should be done from the 1st week of June to the last week of August. Š Š If the infestation of top borer is heavy use ferterra (0.4 G) 22.5 kg per ha in the last week of June near roots. Moisture is a must in the field. Activities in July Š Š Earth the crop. Š Š If waterlogging then arrange suitable drainage. Š Š If weed starts growing uproot. Š Š If green manure, Sanai is sown use Harrow at 45-60 days interval Activities in August Š Š Tie in the first week to avoid lodging. Š Š To get the maximum benefit of Crop by urea spraying, spray 5 % urea. Š Š Arrange water drainage if waterlogged and control the creeper weeds 10. Vegetables Crop- Š Š In the nursery management Seed should be treated 2 gm/kg with Thirum which helps to prevent seed-borne disease and damping off in the nursery. Š Š Zayad vegetables like gourd smooth luffa, bitter gourd cucumber, cucumber, etc.