 Mridaparikshak, mini lab for soil testing and fertilizer recommendation, was further upgraded for more soil parameters. The equipment is now IT enabled to provide soil and crop specific fertilizer recommendations directly to farmers on their mobiles. Nano-composites were developed by trapping novel biologically synthesized nanoparticles in aluminosilicate, which modifies its surface and pores making them ideal for varied aquaculture applications. Fertilizer-use efficiency increased by 42-67% for different crops under different drip-fertigation treatments than soil application. This observation led to the establishment of 14 dug-well drip-fertigation units in Cuttack and Dhenkanal districts of Odisha, and enhanced farmers’ income. A comprehensive water resource planning was developed for 3,900 ha, located within 15 km from the coast line in Mahakalapada of Odisha. Based on 1. Overview DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 1 OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 2 the water availability in creeks and water harvesting structures, suitable crop planning was proposed for the region. In Haryana and Uttar Pradesh, salinity and sodicity mapping of canal commands, was done using geophysical survey technology (DUALEM-21) for developing salinity management improved strategies. To harness productivity of Sharda Sahayak Canal seepage water a pond-based farming system module was initiated under farmers’ participatory mode at Lucknow. In this module, vegetable system was found to be more profitable than rice-wheat and tomato- mustard systems. Napier grass strip of 2 m width was most effective in reducing runoff (30%), losses of soil (65%) and nutrients (70%), and in increasing crop yield up to 18%. Under study on different farming systems for degraded lands of Shivalik range, intercropping of peach + circular trench + clusterbean combination was found to be the most compatible for resource conservation resulting in minimum runoff and soil loss, maximum fruit yield per plant, and B:C ratio of 5.25. As an innovative approach to boost brackishwater aquaculture farming, the ecosystem health card based on soil and water recceing was introduced in Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, West Bengal and Gujarat. Climate change and resilient agriculture: Forecasting studies of rice yields using DSSAT (Decision Support System for Agrotechnology Transfer) rice model predicted that, all states in the Eastern region are likely to experience reduced yields of below or equal to 10% during mid-century climate change scenarios except Bihar. Net global warming potential (NGWP) and Greenhouse gas intensity (GHGI) were influenced by tillage and residue treatments. They increased with increase in crop residues in both the crops. The zero tillage led to reduction in fuel consumption by 58% in pigeonpea and 81 % in castor.