17 November–December 2021 45 O rganic gardening or biodynamic production of fruits and vegetables crops offers much scope for diversification and entrepreneurship development in Indian agriculture. Among all the states, Madhya Pradesh has covered largest area under organic certification followed by Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh. During 2016, Sikkim has achieved a remarkable distinction of converting its entire cultivable land (> 76,000 ha) under organic certification. The organic agriculture has grown many folds and by 2014-15, India has brought 4.89 m ha area under organic certification process. Out of this, cultivated area accounts for 1.18 m ha (24.1%) while remaining 3.71 m ha (75.9%) is wild forest harvest collection area. Currently, India ranks 10th among the countries having cultivable land under organic certification. In terms of wild collection, India ranks 3rd next to Finland and Zambia. Sikkim state in India has been declared as organic State from January 2016 and has highest net sown area (100%) under organic certification while Madhya Pradesh is having largest area (232,887 ha) under organic production system. The domestic market for organic products in the year 2014-15 was estimated at ₨ 875 crore. India is a country with different agro-climatic zones where each Abhilash V*, Poonam Kashyap, N Ravisankar, A S Panwar, A K Prusty and M Shamim Statics paper Organic value chain study: Opportunities, constraints and strategies for promotion of organic horticulture in Kerala Organic agriculture is one of the production system which is supportive to the environment. The scope and potential of organic agriculture especially of fruits and vegetable farming is continuously increasing in today’s scenario. Organic agriculture in India is in a growth stage with abundant opportunities and risks. Advancements in agriculture related technologies and management are crucial for accelerated and sustainable development of Indian organic agriculture sector. Integrated Organic Farming System (IOFS) models promises to meet 70-80% of organic inputs within farms and should be given impetus for promotion. According to All India Network Programme on Organic Farming (AI-NPOF), organic production is more of a description of the agricultural methods used on a farm, rather than food which combines tradition, innovation and science. Initiatives to introduce cold chain, food parks and other modern marketing strategies, and integrating value chain in fruits and vegetables have come as a fresh boost to Indian agriculture and increased the pace of transformation of the sector into a commercial and market driven enterprise. The analysis of the behaviour and perception of organic farmers, value addition centres and consumers in Palakkad, Kerala reveals that organic fruits and vegetables have huge potential inside and outside Kerala.