 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 225 Groundnut seeds treat with 125 ml of Rhizobium and 125 ml of Phosphobacteria per ha and shade dry it for 30 minutes before sowing. Foliar application of combined nutrient solution (DAP 2.5 kg, Ammonium sulphate 1 kg and borax 0.5 kg) spray on 25th and 35th days after sowing. It will be improved the pod fillings in bold seed groundnut. Livestock Livestock should be properly dewormed after rainy season for internal parasites and dipped for external parasites in consultation with veterinary doctors or state veterinary deptt. or KVKs. Vaccination schedule should be followed for preventing diseases of livestock as per the recommendation of sate Veterinary Department e.g., vaccination for swine fever in pigs, vaccination for FMD for livestock etc. For protecting the livestock from extreme stress due to hot and humid condition, proper housing with ventilation should be provided. Strict Bio-security procedures should be followed at livestock farms. Foot bath should be provided at entrance of the farm with phenyl, Dettol, Savlon etc. The The area surrounding the livestock shed should be cleaned and disinfected by spraying Hypochloride solutions, phenol solutions or dusting with lime. Clean palatable water should be provided ad.lib. Balanced feeding of livestock should be practiced. If possible low-cost feed should be formulated from locally available feed ingredients viz. Broken rice, rice bran, coconut cake, Chunni (pulse), Till Cake, Azolla etc. The Livestock feed should be properly stored in a dry and cool place to prevent the dampening and moulding of the feed. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 226 Artificial heat should be provided to newborn piglets to avoid early piglet mortality during winter. The farmers should sow fodder seeds or cuttings in their field for ensuring nutritious fodder availability year around viz. Paragrass, Guinea grass, Hybrid napier, Sorghum. The excess fodder should be harvested which may be converted into haylage or silage for future use during dry spell. Supplementation of Mineral mixture (@ 50g cattle, 25g goats and pigs) should be provided for better productivity and reproductive performance in livestock. Avoid herding or farming of different species in the same premises. Clean milk production practice should be followed during milking, storing, transporting and marketing in order to prevent contamination of milk with dust and microbes. Always wear mask, use sanitizer, or wash hands using soaps and maintain social distancing in the farms and marketplaces. Poultry Poultry should be properly dewormed for internal parasites and dipped / dusted for external parasites in consultation with veterinary doctors or state veterinary deptt. or KVKs. Vaccination schedule should be followed for preventing diseases of poultry as per the recommendation of sate Veterinary Department e.g., vaccination for Ranikhet, IBD, Marek’s etc. disease for poultry.