 Hence, the study's limitation to a specific geographical area may fail to encompass these aspects by limiting the applicability of its recommendations to specific regions. Future research should focus on conducting field studies, pilot programs, and case studies to gather empirical evidence on the effectiveness of these interventions in various contexts. Furthermore, future research can expand on this study to create more focused and influential ap­ proaches for improving agricultural credit systems. 5. Implications and conclusion The study aimed to gain insight into the perspectives of stakeholders in the agricultural credit system to formulate more effective policy in­ terventions. The farming community can effectively utilize credit to achieve agricultural growth through environmental sustainability in various ways. Unfortunately, farmers have difficulties securing the loans they need from banks due to the complicated application processes and J. Hiranya and H.G. Joshi Acta Psychologica 255 (2025) 104890 7 strict collateral requirements associated with traditional credit systems. The present research emphasizes the necessity of credit policies that are more inclusive and adaptable as they must respond to the unique ob­ stacles encountered by farmers. Although financial institutions frequently regard agriculture as a high-risk sector, there is a significant opportunity to effectively access and mitigate risks using technology. Financial institutions can facilitate the development of innovative so­ lutions that satisfy both financial and environmental objectives by collaborating with technology providers. Policymakers can provide diversified credit products suitable for the agricultural sector by emphasizing different segments and considering and prioritizing sus­ tainability development goals. In addition, promoting financial literacy is essential for enabling farmers to access and utilize credit effectively. These measures will help alleviate the psychological obstacles that have long hindered farmers from accessing credit. The efforts of non- governmental organizations and development agencies are vital in this regard. Overall, sustainable and transformative agricultural credit policies have the potential to significantly enhance agricultural productivity, environmental sustainability, and the rural economy. In order to formulate policies that are both environmentally sustainable and financially viable, it is essential to employ collaborative approaches that incorporate the perspectives of various stakeholders, including farmers, financial institutions, policymakers, and NGOs. This will establish a more resilient and inclusive agricultural sector that facilitates the growth of a nation.