 yy Managed drought stress trials including a total 266 released/pipelines hybrids from IIMR/ AICRP and CIMMYT were planted during December 2019 at Kolhapur, Godhra and Hyderabad. Identification of potential germplasm sources for abiotic stress tolerance and heterotic classification of ICAR-IIMR and AICMIP inbred lines through delineation of combining abilities yy DNA samples were collected from a panel of 752 lines available with AICRP and a panel of 658 lines from CIMMYT selected for waterlogging/drought/ heat/combination stress tolerance for the validation of the DArTAG platform. Genotyping is in progress. Fig. 11. Distribution of grain yield in advance durum wheat lines tested in 2015 and 2019 crop season yy Grain characteristics evaluation and quality evaluation confirmed that, as in past years, the frequency of lines with overall good quality attributes is high among the material tested recently. yy Based on the results of 2019 and those obtained in the previous 2 years, we have selected 45 improved advanced lines for the 52nd International Durum Yield Nursery (52nd IDYN) to be distributed to Indian collaborators in 2020. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 49 yy A sub-set of 193 lines from the IIMR/AICMIP panel were crossed to two testers each from CIMMYT and ICAR-IIMR testers in Design II. Identification of commercially viable CIMMYT and ICAR-IIMR hybrids yy Selected stress-resilient high-yielding hybrids across location were identified. These will be evaluated though specifically designed rainfed trials though AICRP network to identify stress- resilient hybrids for Kharif. Conservation agriculture Long-term basic and strategic process-based research on conservation agriculture and their participatory validation in major cereal based systems in key geographies were carried-out to generate science-based evidence. Key outputs are listed below: yy A meta-analysis using 9,686 paired site-year comparisons representing different indicators of cropping system performance suggest significant benefits when CA component practices are implemented either separately or in tandem. For example, zero tillage with residue retention had a mean yield advantage of 5.8%, water use efficiency higher by 12.6%, increase in net economic return by 25.9%, and a reduction of 12-33% in global warming potential, with more favourable responses on loamy soils and in maize-wheat systems (Fig. 12). Managed drought stress trials at Hyderabad, Godhra and Kolhapur during Rabi 2019-20. yy Based on the strategic research on Food-Energy- Water (FEW) nexus in collaboration with PAU, two State recommendation on subsurface drip irrigation under CA in rice -wheat and maize- wheat systems have been made for their scaling in Punjab yy Meta-genomic studies under long-term CA in cereal based systems were conducted to Fig. 12.