 They may find it hard to concentrate on any one task and cannot be relied on to do their job share. Understanding people and successfully interacting with them increases organizational efficiency and effectiveness. It was felt appropriate to reflect on and renew the people management skills of the top management personnel of ICAR/ASRB, sensitize them on human resource related issues and resolve related operational issues. Therefore, HRM Unit of ICAR headquarters in collaboration with NAARM, Hyderabad organized six one day leadership workshops on ìEnhancing organizational productivity through management of people at workî for Top Officials right from Deputy Director Generals; Asstt. Director Generals; Directors, Joint Director, Professors, Principal Scientists and Heads of Division of ICAR- Institutes located at Delhi; Deputy Directors, Senior Finance & Accounts Officers, Deputy Secretaries and Directors at headquarters and ASRB. In these workshops, 95 such officers participated. 7.3.3 Senior Executive Development Programme for Senior Officers with International Exposure Training and Capacity building is essential for improving efficiency and effectiveness of the individuals even for Senior Officers, consequently leading to overall efficiency and effectiveness of the organization and its development and success. Organizational effectiveness is enhanced through enhancement of managerial competence and skill development of the Officer. Wider exposure enhances leadership capacities, competence, skills to improve the organizational efficiency to harness the power of science and innovation for food security, food safety and farmer prosperity under diverse environments of the globe. Therefore, visits to research production and processing facilities and government departments for gaining insights on good practices in agriculture and allied disciplines in other countries has good sense. Leadership Workshop at NASC, New Delhi Leadership Workshop at NASC, New Delhi 11 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) In other Central Government Organizations, the Executive Officers get an opportunity of training in India and abroad. Similar types of opportunities were not available to the Senior Officers of ICAR. First time, International exposure visits (China, Malaysia and Thailand/Singapore, Australia and New Zealand) of 20 multidisciplinary Senior Scientific and Administrative staff together was organized as part of ìSenior Executive Development Programme on Developing Effective Organisational Leadership for Senior Officers of ICARî by ASCI, Hyderabad in coordination with NAARM, Hyderabad and HRM Unit, ICAR HQs. The programme was envisaged to enhance leadership capacities, competence, skills of senior research managers and officers to improve the organizational efficiency.