 Temperature, rainfall and carbon dioxide are the main drivers of climate change with Temperatures rising, rainfall declining and evaporation increasing. Agricultural activities do not always produce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, as they depend on soil and environmental conditions, resource availability, farming technology, crop inputs and farm managers. Cropping practices that can reduce GHGs include diversifying crop rotations, optimizing fertilizer amount, timing and application rate, incorporating nitrogen-fixing pulses in rotation, sequestering soil carbon and adopting low soil-disturbance practices. Increasing crop yields by decoupling or reducing GHG emissions would improve to social economics, such as farmer profitability, rural employment and farm sustainability. Australian dryland systems are based primarily on mixed crop and pasture/ Prof. Kadambot H.M. Siddique is the Hackett Professor of Agriculture and Director of The University of Western Australia’s Institute of Agriculture. His forte is in agricultural research, teaching and management. 157 Climate Smart Agriculture livestock enterprises. The University of Western Australia’s Institute of Agriculture has developed an integrated cropping system that incorporates four key components: (1) intensified cropping through relay planting or intercropping, (2) within-field strip rotation, (3) soil mulching with available means such as crop straw/plastic mulch and (4) no-till or reduced tillage. Intensified cropping through relay planting coordinates competition among relay crops and enhances interspecies interactions and water/ nutrient sharing during the co-growth period. The warm- season crop, follows the harvest of the cool-season crop, leading to vigorous growth and resource use from both steps, generating compensatory effects such as increased crop yields and proits and decreased carbon footprint. Soil mulching of maize (plastic mulch) yielded (7,000–11,000 kg ha–1 with water use efficiency of 19 –30 kg ha–1 mm–1 compared to 2,000–3,500 kg ha–1 and 7–10 kg ha–1 mm–1 for non-mulched maize. Straw mulch produced similar results. Zero tillage benefits include early sowing, time, machinery and fuel savings, improved yield potential, soil structure (due to increased organic matter) and soil water dynamics (due to increased porosity) and decreased pollution, erosion and increased carbon sequestration (1 per cent carbon = 33 t ha–1). Diversified cropping systems in Australia have increased in recent years. While wheat remains the major crop, the cropping share of barley, canola and chickpea has increased in recent decades. In WA, GHG emissions are low due to efficient nitrogen fertilizer use, low nitrous oxide emissions from the cropping system and reduced methane emissions from good-quality local fodder. Eremophila glarba planted with inter- rows of pasture for livestock grazing reduced methane emissions.