 Alagusundaram On behalf of the Members of the Committee on Economic Analysis of Alternative / Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Acknowledgements vi Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Committee Report on Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options (Shri Anand Kumar Jha) Deputy Secretary, Representative of Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas - Member (Shri Kumar Saurabh) Deputy Director, Representative of Ministry of Power - Member (Shri Arvind Meshram) Deputy Commissioner, Representative of Joint Secretary (M&T), DAC&FW - Member (Dr. Nalini Ranjan Kumar) Principal Scientist, Representative of Director, NIAP - Member (Dr. C. R. Mehta) Director, ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal - Member (Dr. S. S. Sooch) Principal Scientist (Renewable Energy Engg.), PAU, Ludhiana - Member (Dr. Mukesh Jain) Asst. Professor (FMPE), CCSHAU, Hissar - Member (Dr. Kanchan Kumar Singh) Assistant Director General (Farm Engg.), ICAR - Member Secretary (Dr. K. Alagusundaram) Deputy Director General (Engg.), ICAR - Chairman vii Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Contents Foreword iii Acknowledgements v 1. Executive summary 1 2. Introduction 4 3. Biomass pellets from crop residues as a 8 fuel supplement in thermal power plants 4. Biogas production from paddy straw at 11 domestic/ community level 5. Industrial level plant for production of 17 Biogas / Bio-CNG / Compressed Bio-gas (CBG) from paddy straw 6. Power Generation from Biomass 24 7. Alcohol production from paddy straw 29 (lignocellulosic biomass) 8. Composting of paddy straw off the cultivating area 33 9. Recommendations 37 10. References 41 Annexure: Committee Order 42  1 Executive Summary A LARGE portion of the paddy straw / crop residues in Punjab, Haryana and neighbouring states are burnt in the field primarily to clear the field after the harvest of the preceding crop for the sowing next crop. The paddy straw is burnt in the field because it is a very easy and quick method of disposal. In Punjab and Haryana about 3.1 million ha area is under rice- wheat rotation and 1.25 million ha under rice-potato rotation. Burning of crop residues results in emission of gases such as CH4, CO, N2O and NOx; particulate matters, loss of plant nutrients and adversely affect the atmosphere, the environment and the soil health. In addition to these losses the straw burning also causes deterioration of soil physical health, health hazards and accidents, air pollution and emission of greenhouses gases and loss of micro-biodiversity. Crop Residue Management Options can be classified as in-situ and ex-situ management options. Retaining, incorporating or mulching the crop residues in the field and decomposing using consortia of microbes developed by various Institutes are the two possible in-situ crop residue management options.