 There is immense scope for organic production of vegetable crops in India since the agricultural sector has enormous organic resources like crop residues, livestock and other bio-products from agro industries. Certified organic vegetable products offer high-income options for farmers and therefore can serve as promoters for climate friendly farming practice worldwide. For further interaction, please write to: S K Singh (Principal Scientist), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: skscprs@gmail.com Organic fertigation system An organic fertigation unit was developed for use of cowdung and vermicompost filtrates as a nutrient source for crops. A power-operated agitator was also fabricated for the organic fertigation unit for large-scale vegetable cultivation. The proportion of manure and water, duration of agitation, and settling time of manure solution were optimized to improve the nutrient content of supernatant and filtrate using the power- operated agitator. Vermicompost filtrate prepared by mixing vermicompost and water in a ratio of 1:5 followed by agitation for 10 min and settling for 6 hr showed increased nutrient content (K, P, Ca and Mg) in the filtrate. It was recommended that organic manure filtrate along with a 50% recommended dose of fertilizer should be applied to get a higher yield of okra and improve the nutrient and microbial status of the soil. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 74 Rohit Kumar Vashishat*, Subhash Sharma, Rajeshwar Singh Chandel and Subhash Chander Verma Performance of vegetable crops under Natural farming Natural farming is a chemical-free farming approach. It is a diversified agricultural system based on agroecology that mixes crops, trees, and animals with functional biodiversity. Natural farming can also be helpful to revive the rural economy, which highly depends upon cash crops like vegetables crops. This article reveals that returns were high and cost was less in natural farming vegetable crop cultivation as compared to conventional farming. Research W hen the entire planet is under the threat of climate change, India likewise falls into a high- risk group for this disaster. India is the world’s rising economy today, but it also has limited natural resources. However, India’s expanding population is a source of concern. More and more of India’s population is reliant on natural resources for a living; their relationship is entirely based on climate-sensitive activities such as agriculture, horticulture, forestry, and fishing, all of which are directly related to water, land, biodiversity, and farming on the mainland. With developing economies, industrialization, urbanisation, commercial agriculture, and expanding capabilities of energy producers, primarily through non-renewable energy.