 The capacity building of members of self-help groups, commodity interest groups, FPOs is done by KVKs, so that all these groups can work professionally with greater efficiency. The recent human capital development initiatives of ICAR through KVKs included ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture), Farmers FIRST programme, skill development of farmers and youths through the Agriculture Skill Council of India (ASCI). KVK also focuses on women-centric capacity building programmes, especially on primary processing of agriculture, horticulture and dairy products through the formation of women self-help groups. All these programmes are developing the man resources for participation and management of village-level institutions and thus helping in fulfilling Gandhiji dream of Swaraj. 8. Way Forward “The future depends on what you do today.” Mahatma Gandhi It is clear from the foregoing discussion that ICAR has made significant contributions to agricultural and rural development with a focus on the needs of disadvantaged regions and sections of the society. Several institutional reforms involving stakeholders’ participation and transparent decision-making have helped in targeting these special groups. Improvement in agricultural productivity and farm income has empowered the farmers that contributed to the empowerment of rural institutions, a major pillar of the Gandhian thoughts. The 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is an occasion to reaffirm the commitment of ICAR to his vision of agriculture and rural development. ICAR shall continue to make deliberate attempts to improve rural livelihoods and income through technological interventions. Small farmers, 13 women and rural workers shall be the main clients of ICAR, besides addressing the R&D needs of other farmers and agricultural workers. National food security, environmental sustainability, and equity shall continue to guide priority-setting efforts of ICAR. Empowerment of women and small farmers through technological and skill empowerment shall be the main goal. This is turn shall contribute to the economic and social empowerment of rural people and strengthening democratic principles of village institutions. ICAR has an advantage of its linkages with the villages and resource-poor farmers and therefore to contributes to the vision of Mahatma Gandhi. ICAR shall accelerate these efforts in the years to come. Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 14 Chapter 2 Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security AK Singh, S Sriram, ES Rao, Santosh J Eapen and MR Dinesh “An ounce of practice is worth a thousand words.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘The progress of the country lies in the development of its rural villages, the rural economy, and rural skills’. Without contribution from agriculture, the economy of the country will collapse.