 Mid-storage treatments: Treatments given to medium and low vigour seeds during storage; stored seeds are allowed to take up 20-30% water for initiation of restoration and corrective action followed by drying back to restoration. These may be dry or wet seed treatments. • Soaking–drying • Stepwise hydration • Dipping-drying • Moisture Equilibration-drying • Spraying-drying • Moist sand conditioning-drying Indian Horticulture 68 Table 2. Different types of material for seed pelleting Type Material Feature Dyes Botanicals dyes: Jamun fruit extract, Beta vulgaris tuber extract, Curcuma longa rhizome powder, Hibiscus rosa sinensis flower extract Synthetic dyes: Turquoise blue, Congo red, Sky blue, Jade green yy Should not be toxic and hazardous Polymers Pink polykote, Green polykote, Red polykote yy Should be biodegradable A d h e s i v e material Gum arabica, methylcellulose, gelatin, casein salts, Plastic rexins, polyvinyl acetate, methyl ethyl cellulose, Polyurethane polyvinyl alcohol, dextran and polyethylene oxide. yy Should possess the required degree of water solubility for easy emergence yy Should have affinity for both seed coat and the filler material yy Should have appropriate viscosity yy Should have required strength and plasticity to prevent breakage Filler material Lime, gypsum, dolomite, rock phosphate, clay minerals like montmorillonite, vermiculite. Besides blood, peat, poultry manure, moss and mucilage yy Must be porous to allow movement of air to the seed yy Must weaken/break down easily when it comes in contact with soil moisture to prevent any physical impedance yy Should not be toxic to the seed yy Economical for commercial use uniform size, typically using a mixture of inert material, binders and other materials to facilitate precision planting, improve the handling, storage, and planting characteristics of seed. The inert material creates a natural water holding media and provides small amount of nutrients to young seedlings. Seed pelleting also serves as a mechanism of applying needed material in such a way that they affect the seed or soil at the seed soil interface. Seed pelleting may obscure the original shape and size of the seed. The pellet contains chemicals, fungicides, polymers, dyes, filler material and adhesive. The seeds of many crop species are either small or irregularly shaped, making it difficult to singulate them for planting. Seed pelleting addresses both of these problems by coating seeds with clay or other materials to give them a uniform shape and size and increasing their size and density to allow more precise placement in the soil. Additionally, seed pelleting can help to protect seed samples from damage during storage and handling, leading to improved seed viability and performance.