ku ds dq'ky mi;ksx dk leFkZu djus okyk cqfu;knh <kapk] cktkj esa fcpkSfy;ksa dks viii de djuk 'kkfey gSA blds lkFk gh lwpuk çkS|ksfxdh Økafr] —f”k esa uÃ çkS|ksfxdh] fo'ks”k :i ls vuqlaèkku vkSj fodkl ij futh fuos'k] NksVh tksr ,oa mit vkfn dh leL;kvksa ds lekèkku ds fy, lgdkjh@lewg vkèkkfjr ç;kl —f”k dk psgjk cny jgs gSaA rduhdh ,oa çkS|ksfxdh vkèkkfjr —f”k fodkl dh uÈo j[kh tk jgh gS] ftlesa Hkkjrh; —f”k vuqlaèkku ifj”kn dh Hkwfedk vfr egRoiw.kZ gSA Hkkjrh; —f”k vuqlaèkku ifj”kn ds }kjk fodflr jch 2021&22 ds fy, —f”k lykg ,oa rduhdh tkudkfj;k¡ fdlkuksa dks uohure ,oa lkef;d tkudkjh igq¡pkus esa lQy gksxhA ifj”kn dh bl igy ds fy, gkÆnd cèkkÃ nsrk gw¡A ix foRewoRd Agriculture, which is the primary driver of rural economy providing food security to the country and employment to 58 percent of the population, continued to grow at an steady rate during the Covid-19 Pandemic wave. Agriculture could perform well because of policy interventions, timely agro-advisories and farmers’ commitment along with good monsoon and cheaper and higher availability of labour, This has reflected on the GDP, the agricultural economy grew significantly by 3.4 percent. During 2020-21, the food grain production in the country has reached the milestone of 308.65 million tons with record production of paddy, wheat and pulses. Accomplishing a record of 25.72 million tons of pulse production entails the story of pulses revolution in the country. However, for many commodities, impetus on adoption of latest farming practices and technology up-gradation at the grass roots level in different regions is required. Positive indications in oilseeds production i.e. 36.10 million tons in 2020-21 are the outcome of policy interventions, scientific approaches for Lab to Land and development initiatives. The Indian agriculture has to move towards diversification with focus on processing and value addition, and robust marketing system. The yield gaps and production gaps need to be bridged. Therefore, promoting best agricultural practices for enhancing farm production and income, while ensuring optimum use of resources, is major thrust of ICAR through Rabi Agro-Advisories 2021-22. This document is meant to serve the farmers of the countr, across 28 States and 8 Union Territories, engaged in farming and allied sectors covering major crops, livestock and fisheries. I congratulate the Agrigultural Extension Division of ICAR and all the ATARIs for bringing out the publication in regional languages for the benefit of farmers. (T. Mohapatra) Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR Dated the 31st August, 2021 New Delhi xi PRefACe The COVID-19 Pandemic has created unprecedented situation throughout the world. It has been more than a year and half since COVID-19 Pandemic threatened the human life by killing millions across the globe. During this crisis the economies of countries suffered heavily but agriculture sector showed lot of resilience.