 Research from India and around the world suggests that climate-resilient practices and dairy efficiency increasing practices like providing energy rich feed and fodder, improving livestock fertility, and health interventions can reduce GHG emissions by reducing livestock requirement per unit product. Since combating climate change comes under the purview of the G20 summit, efforts may be taken to tackle the issues related to balancing the dairying against climate and environment-related concerns. Various climate-related declarations may be undertaken by various nations for reducing the carbon footprint observed in agricultural and allied sectors through the G20 summits organised. The various stakeholders involved may be motivated to undertake climate-resilient dairying practices in such a way that globally as well as at the national level, dairy can be operated profitably with minimal impact on climate. Moreover, the scope of initiatives may be widened towards the inclusion of dairy to integrate climate resilience with dairying to achieve the ulterior goal of making the dairy enterprise sustainable. Undertaking sustainable dairying practices is highly crucial in the current scenario wherein ecologically sound practices can lead to a balance and a better health of animals as well as humans, thereby promoting one health. One health may ensure better resilience of dairy animals towards diseases. This in turn may again lead to lesser requirements of livestock per unit of product thereby checking the GHG emissions. Sustainable practices may lead to better conservation of genetic resources and biodiversity for food and agriculture. Sustainably managed livestock systems can contribute efficiently towards numerous ecological functions like soil carbon sequestration, nutrient recycling and maintenance of agri-landscapes. Dairy and livelihood security Since operation flood, the dairy sector along with animal husbandry emerged as a primary income source thereby supporting a huge number of households residing in the rural area. As per a report by FAO, around 500 million rural poor have a dependency on dairying and livestock of which a majority is constituted of marginal and small farmers. Since India is a developing economy, the dairy sector in India is scattered and unorganised which leads to huge marketing losses as a whole while reducing the profit margin due to the meddling of various middlemen. Dairy has a greater potential for employment generation. The dairy sector can generate employment for more than 1.2 crores of the population in the coming decade. Since the market growth of milk production in India is 5% against the global rate of 1.8%, it is quite evident that such growth will not only help in generating income but also contribute significantly to poverty alleviation.