 They were exposed to learn various training functions including developing a system of training in the institute; pursuing systematic approach to training; performing training needs analysis (TNA) of all categories of employees; developing Annual Training Plan (ATP) based on TNA; evaluation of Trainings; monitoring and impact assessment of trainings; and maintaining database of training and trained manpower, etc. Training programme for PME Cell Incharges: To acquaint the PME Cell Incharges with the techniques for research prioritization, monitoring and evaluation, six-day MDP on Priority Setting, Monitoring and Evaluation (PME) of Agricultural Research Projects, for PME Cell Incharges of ICAR was organized during the reporting period. In the said MDP, 30 PME Cell Incharges of 30 Institutes participated. Technical staff: During 2018–19, ICAR-Institutes organized 109 training programmes for Technical Staff (816) for enhancing their competency in various aspects. Training programmes for farm/farm manager: In order to manage the research/livestock farms more effectively and efficiently, a specially designed and developed training programme on Farm Management, was successfully organized in two batches. Farm Managers (51 from ICAR + 3 Non-ICAR Institutes) participated in the programme. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 158 TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 159 Training programme for library staff: Technical staff (34 from ICAR and 3 from SAUs) associated with library work in various ICAR Institutes/HQs were nominated by the ICAR HQs for Training Programme organised by KOHA. Administrative staff: ICAR-Institutes/HQs organized 35 training programmes for administrative including finance staff for improving their competency and 733 administrative staff of ICAR of various grades participated. Efficiency and Behavioural Skills’ was organized in three batches. In this programme, 75 stenographers in various grades participated, out of which about 95% stenographers got training first time after joining ICAR services. Training programme for skilled support staff: Based on the identified training needs, ICAR-Institutes/ HQs are now organising trainings for skilled support staff (SSS) after the creation of HRM Unit at ICAR HQs. During reporting period, 53 training programmes were organized for Skilled Support Staff by 53 ICAR- Institutes/HQs, and 630 SSS were trained. Training programme for drivers: A specialiazed and updated training programme on ‘Automobile Maintenance, Road Safety and Behavioural Skills’ was organized for regualr drivers of ICAR. In this programme, 93 regular drivers participated in three batches, out of which about 88% got first time opportunity after joining ICAR service.