 Facilitating germplasm procurement, distribution and utilization, diversification of genetic base, laying down stringent standards of forage quality and resistance to stresses and collaborating with animal scientists have been the major milestones in augmenting the forage sorghum productivity in the country. Recognizing the major role played by private sector in catering to the huge demand for forage sorghum, licensing and IPR sharing with private entrepreneurs (hybrids CSH 20MF, CSH 24MF CSH 43MF) has promoted the synergy which has helped the public hybrids to reach the forage sorghum farmers at an accelerated pace. Advantages of new forage sorghum cultivars • The improved cultivars have higher digestibility indicating more milk and meat production in livestock. It is estimated that for every 1% increase in digestibility, there is 2–3% increase in milk yield. • These cultivars are more tolerant to stem borer and lodging, thereby minimize losses compared to earlier cultivars. Tan-coloured cultivars are resistant to foliar diseases, do away with hazardous chemical control. • These have been tested for cyanogen (HCN inducing) safety under recommended cultivation conditions and found highly safe. Future strategies in forage sorghum: Forage sorghum improvement programmes are beset with lack of information on variability and useful genetic stocks for various traits. Therefore, concerted and planned efforts are needed to collect, evaluate, catalog and maintain germplasm exclusively for forage sorghum. To get a regular supply of green fodder for a longer period of time, multi-cut varieties having profuse tillering, quick regeneration, faster growth and capability of giving a minimum of 4–5 cuttings should be developed. The high yield and multi-cut potential of sudangrass should be further exploited in breeding programme to develop highly adapted and high yielding stable multi-cut variety of forage sorghum. Further advances in forage sorghum improvement should pay attention to stability in production of biomass and nutrient content through resistance breeding. Sweet sorghum Energy sorghum, which includes Sweet sorghum (1G feedstock) and biomass sorghum (2G feedstock) has recently gained favour as bioethanol feedstock amongst numerous candidate crops. Sweet sorghum is a short duration crop of about 4 months, which produces higher biomass yield with less input. India has achieved 10% blending of petrol with ethanol recently and the next target is 20% blending by 2025. The fact remains that ethanol production from sugarcane molasses alone does not ensure optimum supply levels needed to meet the demand at any given time. Sorghum as a dryland crop offers a sustainable solution to this problem as it can be grown for feed, fodder, fuel and fibre. One of the obstacles to this crop’s expansion as a biofuel feedstock is the fact that sugarcane has established dominance over the production chain of sugar and ethanol, receiving the majority of the investments.