 Strategies for Implementation Committed to attaining its targets, PMMSY works in the domain of cooperative federalism, built on a structured and robust implementation framework which inter-alia includes institutional mechanisms for establishing Program Units, State level Approval and Monitoring committees in all States/UTs along with District and Sub-district level units for preparation of Integrated Fisheries Development Plans and fast- tracking approvals. Apart from that, PMMSY establishes effective linkages between farm production and retail chains, strengthening Fisheries SHG’s and Cooperatives, Collectivizing fishers and fish farmers through Fish Farmer Producer organizations (FFPO’s) to enhance competitiveness of the sector and increasing bargaining power of fish farmers leading to higher incomes and economic prosperity. To the extent possible, PMMSY will adopt a ‘cluster or area-based approach’ integrating requisite forward and backward linkages to facilitate economies of scale, accelerate growth and expansion of the sector in an organized manner. It is also envisaged to encourage convergence with the schemes or programs of other Ministries/ Departments to facilitate holistic development and thus, amplify outcomes. Through need based financial support to various sub-sectors, training and capacity development of large number of rural population and align them towards fisheries and aquaculture related lively hood activities, it is expected that PMMSY can significantly contribute towards the Aatma Nirbhar Bharat Abhiyan. 1IAS, Secretary, Ministry of Fisheries Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Govt. of India fleet and artisanal fishers, support under PMMSY will be provided to traditional fishermen for acquiring deep sea fishing vessels, promotion of technologically advanced fishing vessels and fishing gear for fishermen/fishermen groups through State/UT governments. Training and capacity building for undertaking deep-sea fishing will also be supported under PMMSY, in collaboration with other important maritime nations. Mobilization of Human resource and support to entrepreneurship in fisheries The Government is considering the fact that scaling up production and making the sector self-reliant require engaging more new people in its various sub-sectors and capacity building of existing work force, that needs some levels of training, knowledge and exposure for achieving better results. Therefore, under PMMSY, special focus is given accorded for training, awareness, exposure and capacity building of beneficiaries which includes fishers, fish farmers, entrepreneurs, fish workers/vendors and fishery officials. A comprehensive action plan is being drawn up to train about 1.5 lakh beneficiaries with an amount of ` 100 crore under PMMSY.