 For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been com- piled in this monogram. It will be of immense value to the re- searchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming. Indian Horticulture 40 Multiple Nutrient Stresses Accentuating Citrus Decline in Northeast India Khasi mandarin (Mostly seedling origin with extended juvenile period) is one of the commercial citrus cultivars grown predominantly in rainfed and naturally organic environment, with minimum use of synthetic inputs. Under such nutritionally compromised conditions, identifying the correct nutritional disorders and resort to an effective remediation surmount to quite a challenging task. The extensive research has developed nutrient diagnostics (using leaf nutrient guide and soil fertility rating coupled with morphological descriptors) to identify multiple nutrient stresses (Ca, Mg , Zn, N, P and B in decreasing order) playing an interlocuter in citrus decline rampant deep in northeast India. These nutrient stresses need to be addressed using different protocols of organic cultivation and integrated nutrient management as suggested. The efforts such as these must complement in-situ rainwater conservation as a part of contingency irrigation to contain the current onslaught of citrus decline in Northeast India. Research A K Srivastava1 T HE precise center of the origin of citrus is considered to be the mountainous parts of Southern China and Northeastern India. Globally, citrus is one of the leading fruit crops grown in more than 140 countries. The highest quantum of citrus production in Northeast India is harvested from citrus growing in soils represented by soil orders, Alfisol, Ultisol, Entisol, and Inceptisol. Like any other fruit crop, the performance of citrus is constrained by variety of soil fertility and plant nutrition- based factors. Malnutrition of citrus orchards is more or less a commonality with some exceptions. An inefficient fertilizer use is identified as one of the major causes of untimely low orchard productivity, an indicator of citrus decline. In the absence of information on scientific know- how about the techniques of nutrient monitoring, the precise use of fertilizers makes any nutrient management program a guarantee to thumping success. Cultivation of Khasi mandarin (Citrus reticulata Blanco) in Northeast India is mainly confined to mid-hills upto an elevation of 1,200 m above mean sea level under humid tropical climate. The growing conditions of the region, climate and pedology are the utmost similarity with many countries like Brazil, China, Japan, etc., but the gap in productivity level is the major concern. Absence of an adequate information on soil fertility and plant nutrition is frequently ascribed to citrus decline in the region.