, north-western region of Pakistan (Baluchistan, Swat and upper Sind valley), northern regions (Kashmir and Kangra region in Himachal Pradesh), central-eastern (Chota Nagpur plateau and surrounding regions of Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa and West Bengal), north-eastern (Assam, Chittagong and sub-Himalayan region including Darjeeling), north Bihar (Saran) Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 29 and southern peninsular region (especially Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka) of India, have the evidence of neolithic cultures. The evidence from excavation of Burzahom site in Kashmir revealed weed seeds and suggested the possibility of wheat and barley crops in the northern neolithic culture. In the southern peninsular region, the evidence at Hallur, Karnataka suggested that ragi (1800 BC) was a crop of choice. Among pulses, grains of horse gram (1780-1500 BC) were collected from Tekkalakota, Karnataka. The grains recovered from Maharashtra also suggested the cultivation of various minor millets. The evidence collected from Navdatoli in Tamil Nadu described that green gram, black gram (1500 BC) and lentil (1500 BC) were cultivated as agricultural crops. Besides, sorghum among millets, linseed and castor among oilseeds, and ber and amla among fruits were also cultivated. In eastern regions, evidence of cultivation of both cultivated rice (Oryza sativa) and wild rice (O. rufipogon), wheat, barley, pea and green gram were found at Chirand, Bihar. Evidence from Pandu Rajar Dhibi in West Bengal also confirmed that rice was a popular choice of food. Besides, banana, sugarcane and yam were also cultivated. The evidence of cultivation of rice in India dates back to 2300 BC at Lothal, Gujarat; Rangpur, Gujarat (2000-1800 BC); Chirand, Bihar (2000-1300 BC); Pandu Rajar Dhibi, West Bengal (2000-1001 BC); Navdatoli, Tamil Nadu (1550-1400 BC); Hastinapur (1100-800 BC) and Atranji-khera (1200-600 BC) in Uttar Pradesh. The first evidence of growing of jowar was found in Ahar, Rajasthan during 1725 BC. 3. Crop husbandry in the vedic era Aryans occupied area of eastern Afghanistan, North-West Frontier province, Kashmir, Punjab, and parts of Sind and Rajasthan. The land was named as ‘Saptasindhavah’ after seven rivers viz., Sutlej, Beas, Ravi, Chenab, Jhelum, Indus and Sarasvati flowing through the most fertile land. During the early vedic era (1500-1000 BC), the Rig-Veda, the oldest book of the Aryans mentioned barley, white and black coloured sesame, sugarcane, cucumber and bottle gourd. Though Harappans grew wheat and cotton, early Aryans, possibly, did not grow them and stuck to barley as their homeland food. Rice finds no mention in the early vedic literature. They came to know about rice after they expanded their territory to Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. During the later vedic periods (1000-600 BC), vedic literatures like Sama-Veda, Yajur-Veda and Atharva-Veda were composed. Mahabharata and Ramayana were also written during this period.