 One corm of around 1.5 kg can be cut vertically into as many as 15 vertical pieces/mini-sets of 100 g retaining a portion of apical bud. Sets after treating with fungicide or trichoderma enriched cow dung slurry are kept for drying for 24 hours before planting. The treatment helps in protecting the crop from collar rot. Ideal spacing for planting in a mango orchard is 60 cm (row-to-row) × 45 cm (plant-to-plant). Sowing can be done either in pits or on ridges and furrows. Cut pieces of planting material are buried vertically in prepared pits or furrows, compacted and covered with soil and organic mulch. Earthing up is done after emergence of new shoots. As regards to nutrient management, a dose of 40 kg, 60 kg and 50 kg of NPK is applied 45 days after planting, while another dose of 40 kg N and 50 kg K is top dressed after one month of the first dose. Fertilizer application is followed by shallow inter-cultlural operations like weeding, light digging and earthing up. Crop is ready for harvest in 7-9 months after planting, however crop can be harvested after 6 months, looking to the better market price. There is great demand of elephant foot yam during Diwali festival season. Underground corms are harvested with pick-axe or by digging when the top leaves are completely withered and fallen. An average yield of 20 to 30 tonnes/ha can easily be obtained by intercropping it in a mango orchard depending upon the age of orchard and management. Elephant foot yam was found more remunerative than turmeric in the demonstrations conducted at farmers’ field in Malihabad mango belt. Farmers obtained a corm yield of 20-25 tonnes/ha. Farmers were able to sell their produce in the local market at a price of k 25-30/kg. For further interaction please write to: Sushil Kumar Shukla, ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. Corresponding author’s email: skshuklacish@gmail.com Elephant foot yam in mango orchard Turmeric grown in mango orchard at farmer's field Flowers always make people better, happier, and more helpful; they are sunshine, food and medicine for the soul. – Luther Burbank July–August 2021 27 Maneesh Mishra* and R A Ram Prospects Why mango orchard based poultry farming? Majority of mango orchards are raised as mono crop. The livelihood of mango growers depends solely on sale of mango fruits. Increasing production cost due to indiscriminate use of pesticide has led to distress particularly for small and marginal farmers. Failure of mango crop severely affects the livelihood options for farmers. There is need for diversification in mango orchards. Mango orchard ecosystem suits for rearing of poultry birds.