 Thorough land preparation is essential to eradicate the perennial and seasonal weed population and also to make soil porous to facilitate fasciculated root development. Based on the slope and rainfall pattern, suitable-sized raised beds/ridges should be prepared. In high rainfall areas, planting on raised beds (10-15 cm height) is suggested for quick drainage of excess water. Propagation: Safed musli can be propagated Sprouted fasciculated roots ready for planting September–October 2023 17 sexually (seeds) as well as asexually (fasciculated roots containing some portion of disc where buds are located). Micropropagation is also successful in safed musli and helps in the production of uniform (homogenous) plants which becomes more important, in the absence of any improved variety available for cultivation. Due to low germination and heterozygous nature, it is preferable to adopt the vegetative means of propagation for commercial cultivation in safed musli. The asexual propagation is done by the fasciculated roots stored from the previous year’s harvest. During last year’s harvest as per the planting material requirement for next year, whole or a portion of fasciculated roots after digging of roots in March-April are stored. The storage of the planting material fasciculated roots in a 2-5 kg capacity container/box covering an equal proportion of sand or sawdust at a cool and humid place Ridge planting system of safed musli Sprouts planting of safed musli still starts sprouting in May-June month. Before planting, sprouted material is taken out from the stored container, and kept outside for some days at room temperature to allow the buds on the disc to sprout. The finger-containing buds and some portions of the disc are separated with the help of a sharp blade/knife. Splitting of a disc is done in such a way that each disc or sprout contains 1-3 fasciculated roots and each should weigh at least 5 g of each sprout. Method of planting: Planting is a very important operation in ensuring higher yield in safed musli. It can be done usually on raised beds or ridges, or flat beds depending upon the soil texture and amount of rainfall. If the soils are heavy in nature with more rainfall and drainage is poor, then crops should be grown on raised beds or ridges. The planting should be done on rainy days preferably the first or second rain of monsoon arrival, as it will help to improve the rate of survival herbs. Single or double planting should be followed in ridges or raised beds. Mostly spacing should be kept about 30 cm row-to-row and 10 or 15 cm plant-to-plant which may accommodate around 3.33 lakh plants per hectare. For planting in a one-hectare area, 600 to 1000 kg planting material (roots) is required and the planting material rate varies with the spacing followed. Irrigation: The drip irrigation with raised bed planting system is found economic and viable for the commercial cultivation of safed musli.