 Estimating draft capacity of different species. Harness for various types of draft animals. Training of work animals. Feeding, care and management of draft animals. Management of camel with special reference to rearing, feeding and watering. Behavioural studies of various draft animals. Economics of draft animals vis-à-vis machine power. Sheep and goat: Selection of breeds and breeding systems for improving wool, mohair, meat and milk. Feeding practices for economic rearing. Scope of intensive milk and meat production from goat. Mutton and wool production from sheep. Low cost shelter management. Sheep and goat reproduction. Health management. Poultry: Brooding of chicks. Management of growing, laying and breeding flocks. Shelter management. Cage layer management and well-being of birds. Light management. Hatchery business management. Management during stress. Chick sexing. Maintenance of farm records. Health and sanitation problems. Prevention and disease control. Poultry shows. Handling care of table eggs and processing of birds for meat. Equine: Care and management of horses, feeding and breeding systems, shelter management, shoeing, preparation and management of race horses. Swine: Importance of pig as a meat animal. Selection of breeds and breeding systems for improving pig production. Feeding strategies for pigs. Care and Management of pregnant sows and unweaned piglets. Reproduction problems in pigs and remedial measures. Rabbit: Economic importance. Important fur and meat type breeds. Housing, handling, feeding, watering, breeding, management, sanitation and health care of rabbits. Unit 9: Wildlife Management Status of wildlife in India and its conservation. Biological and ecological basis of management of wildlife. Breeding and feeding of wildlife in captivity. Principles & practices health management of wild animals. 52 Unit 10: Forage Production and Conservation Classification of feeds and forages. Feed and fodder resources used for feeding of livestock and poultry. Nutritive value of feeds and fodders. Conservation and preservation of feeds and fodders. Annual and perennial fodder crops. Strategies for round the year fodder production. Pasture development and management. Enrichment of poor quality roughages. Unit 11: Economics and Marketing of Livestock and Poultry and their Products Economic principles as applied to livestock production. Production functions. Farm size, resources and product combinations. Cost concepts. Criteria for use of resources in livestock production. Maintenance of evaluation of different production records. Insurance and financing of livestock enterprises. Project formulation for setting up livestock farms. Different approaches to marketing of livestock and its products. Present status of cattle fairs and methods of selling livestock. Market news and information. Estimation of cost of different livestock products (milk, meat, egg & wool). Determination of prices of livestock products. 5.