 The divergent truncated cone is about 1 foot, having an angle of 10° to avoid separation in the diverging suction. The advantages of this pump set are: (i) the device is simple and can be made locally; (ii) it saves power in case of electric motor and diesei in case of diesei pumps; (iii) enormous saving of electricity is achieved as power for agriculture is heavily Tikamgarh (Madhya Pradesh) Dr A. Jagdeesh Nayudamma Centre for Development Alternatives, 2/210 First floor, Nawabpet, dist. Nellore (Andhra Pradesh) 524 002 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Cod Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator subsidized; and (iv) energy is conserved. Keywords: kinetic energy, motor pump, suction, delivery 291 2 A modified Newothani— Newothani is a traditional machine Shri Chakradhar Das, cotton fibre-separating made up of wood used in the region to Bongaigaon machine remove seeds from raw cotton. Other Polytechnic, weavers and cotton-thread spinners are Bongaigaon (Assam) the beneficiaries of this machine. The 783 380 machine has following main parts: (i) two rollers with helical gear made up of sisu (Dalbergia sissoo)! rabab tenga/ahoi or bell, with 1.5 cm-1.8 cm diameter, 6 cm gear length and 35 cm total length; ii) two support stands made of sal (Shorea rnbusta) or sisu of size 6 cm x 2 cm x 25 cm; iii) one bottom half bushing made of gamari/ titachap or pama with the dimension of 1.5 cm x 2 cm x 20 cm; iv) two pressure adjusters made of gamari/ titachap or pama of size 1.5 cm x 2 cm x 10 cm (tapered); v) one handle made of soft wood like gamari/pama or pipe of size 1 cm x 6 cm x 12 cm (with specific shape); vi) one foot stand made of sal or sisu of size 5 cm x 7 cm x 26 cm; and vii) one foot support made of sal or sisu with the dimension of 2 cm x 6 cm x 27 cm. During construction he took the help of a carpenter to make the main frame of the machine. The rollers with gas helical gear on one side are madeup of sisu wood, so as to make it sturdy as well as fibrous, which can be geared to last for a long time. The bottom half bushing and handle made from soft wood, to reduce wear and tear to the shaft of the rollers. The roller's diameter 1.5 cm-1.8 cm is comparable to the size of cotton seed (approx. 4 mm in diameter) and hence can perform seed separation excellently. Content FARM IMPLEMENTS ode Title of the ITK o. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 13 Cotton-stripping machine This machine costs Rs 200 and consumes about 0.002168 cu m or 0.08 cu ft wood. Normally it takes 4 hr to separate 200 g seedless cotton by hand, within 1 hr. It helps save time, labour and increase the efficiency. The machine is light, durable and portable. It occupies very less space i.e. approx. 1 sq ft. Keywords: weaving, raw cotton, roller, shaft Shri Mansukhbhai Patel developed an improved cotton-stripping machine under Technopreneur Promotion Programme (TEPP).