 Therefore, it is important to understand the amounts of solar and thermal radiation converted into sensible (SHF) and latent heat fluxes (LHF) and the characteristics of energy partition. In addition, the SHF and LHF are key variables in energy and water vapor exchanges between the crop surface and the atmospheric conditions, and their information is essential for planning the irrigation scheduling. In addition, over 90% of water losses in agriculture are caused by the action of the above two parameters [128]. In addition, WBMS monitors all of the climate-related parameters that cause quick or slow water release into the atmosphere and makes real-time decisions. WBMS involves local weather data and soil conditions to tailor real-time watering schedules. WBMS controllers can determine when and how much water is needed (s ) [129]. WBMS monitors five major climate components (rainfall, relative humidity, temperature, and solar radiation) to compute daily ET variations and regulate the irrigation schedules to replenish water lost since the previous irrigation event. It ensures that watering happens only when the plant and soil need it. A WBMS is also called an ET system [130]. The United States Environmental Protection Agency [131] mentioned that WBMS is a new generation of smart irrigation systems using weather data to adapt irrigation schedules appropriately. A WBMS can automatically reduce the watering times or days when less water is needed, typically during the cooler months. As outdoor temperatures increase or rainfall decreases, programmed controllers adjust the irrigation system’s watering run times or schedules to compensate for the fluctuation. They can automatically alter their irrigation schedules daily or weekly based on site-specific variables, such as soil type, sprinkler or drip irrigation application rate, and local weather changes. Generally, there are three basic types of WBMS: stand-alone controllers, add-on devices, and plug-in devices. All three types of WBMS are available in various sizes appropriate for small residential and large commercial applications. In addition, two primary technologies are employed by WBMS: (1) on-site sensor-based control and (2) signal-based control. WBMS are alternative techniques for those areas where soil or plant measurements are impossible [132]. A recent study by Akshath et al. [133] proposed an IoT-based weather monitoring system with a NodeMCU reporting system. This study reported that with this system, anyone can collect data, process it for analysis, and show measured data on a Web server. Singh et al. [134] designed a soil data and real-time weather conditions-based SIS monitoring system. This study concluded that the proposed IoT-based system is based on low-cost sensors. It can be used for the precise monitoring of weather parameters in the field.