 Table 10 provides statistical infor­ mation about this cluster. In the following sections, key findings and recommendations on agricultural vulnerability in India to climate Table 8 The statistical information about the cluster “Temperature and Rainfall". Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 3 Temperature 18 15 3 Rainfall 13 11 3 Remote sensing 10 11 3 Climate variability 13 10 3 Agroforestry 10 7 3 Geographical Information Systems (GIS) 4 7 3 Trend analysis 7 7 3 Global warming 9 6 3 Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) 6 5 B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 12 change, as discovered in the articles, will be discussed. Studies on the vulnerability of the agricultural sector show significant spatial, temporal, and thematic differences in India [92]. Most studies emphasize climate-induced external stressors over internal ones, often neglecting the socio-cultural-politico-economic and physical dynamics of agriculture that generate agricultural risks and vulnerabilities. Vulnerability assessments conducted at macro spatial scales cannot adequately evaluate vulnerability at micro-levels, where small and marginal farmers dominate, thereby impeding the implementation of efficient mitigation strategies at the grassroots level [93]. The impacts of CC cause crop losses and affect crop intensification and livestock production, which in turn influence the food supply. However, these impacts vary at the household level depending on the household’s livelihood strategies and the degree of farming diversification [45]. To mitigate the effects of climate-induced droughts, the government needs to adopt a more proactive approach to developing micro-level adaptation strategies to safeguard livelihoods in the agricultural and dairy sectors [94]. Inte­ grating climate change into development planning is crucial to minimize the risk of maladaptation [95]. Moreover, it is vital to address farmers’ distress by developing a multidimensional Farmers’ Distress Index (FDI) at the farmer, district, and sub-district levels. This index could serve as a planning tool to devise strategies to address the causes of farmers’ distress [96]. Finally, adopting a participatory approach to collect local knowledge, integrating this knowledge into vulnerability assessments, and then using these findings in policy recommendations can help achieve climate resilience [75]. 3.13. Climate smart agriculture and drought (cluster 6) The sixth cluster, indicated by nodes colored light blue in Fig. 5, represents the topic of climate smart agriculture and drought. This cluster includes six sub-topics, namely resilient agriculture, climate smart agriculture, drought, livestock, and rainwater harvesting. Table 11 provides statistical information on this cluster. Selected key findings and recommendations regarding climate-smart agri­ culture and drought, as found in the associated articles, are discussed in the following sections.