 India is the first country where women ruled the country after Sri Lanka, with 50 per cent of representation in parliament and local bodies. India has more women in leadership role but boardroom representation is still progressing at a snail’s pace. In India, women hold 17.1 per cent (2022) of the board seats; this has upgraded by 9.4 per cent from 2014. At present, women are being associated in every sphere of the society — ranging from taking care of their household, bringing their families, to confronting their families, safeguarding borders of the country and heading top-most positions in different ministries of the Government of India. In India, 70 per cent of women are farmers but they are not representing as farmers, as the land is not on their name. Women are scaling high in the ladder of varied organizations. Women as leaders can come with new views and can bring in structural and cultural diversity in organizations. In the presence of women leaders, men would behave better and working environment and productivity would also increase. Still till-date women have to work harder to make a balance between home and office. Ms Rekha Sharma is the Chairperson of the National Commission for Women (NCW). She is known for her leadership spirit and for working round the clock for addressing different issues concerning women. 207 Social Issues and Sports Role of the National Commission on Women (NCW) include the following — Capacity building of women MLA’s (as it is important to train women, who are going to make policy decisions for other women); Participating in brainstorming programmes in colleges and schools to encourage women to join politics and Creating awareness about cyber harassment and sexual harassment at work places. As it is the responsibility of the organiza- tion to provide safe environment for working women; there has to be an internal Committee in all organizations. This Internal Committee function is to address varied issues related to women in that organization. But in all organizations, internal committees have not been constituted and even if there are Committees, they have not the idea, how to work. The NCW can help in training internal committee members. The NCW is training women in enterprise development at the Indian Institute of Management also. In agriculture, they are given training in 3 courses (fisheries, dairy farming and agriculture) of 5 weeks each. Participants have not to pay course fee as NCW pays for them. During covid-19, many women with “Pradhan Mantri MUDRA Yojana” (PMMY), which provides loans up to 10 lakhs to the non-corporate, non-farm small/micro enterprises, have started micro and macro businesses. Every girl needs to be given education, resources and freedom of speech. Let her dream and let her work hard to fulfil her dreams. Every girl should earn, then only she would have the confidence to make her own decisions.