 yy For better fruit development, spray n-triacontanol (Miraculan) @ 0.5 ml/l at 15 days interval. 108 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Keep sufficient moisture in the orchard basin. Mulching with straw or grass may be practiced for better soil moisture conservation. Litchi yy To prevent fruit cracking, maintain sufficient moisture during hot summer of May. Regular watering is compulsory. Mulching with straw or grass around the tree basin is helpful for better soil moisture conservation. Fresh water spray upon the fruits and leaves during day time in hot & dry periods may also be helpful Betel leaf yy Frequent harvest and marketing should be avoided. Try to harvest once in a month to minimize movement in the market to sale the produce. yy After normalization of situation, a good plant management can revive the boroz very quickly. yy Maintain the boroz organically, as much as possible, with only organic manure, bio-pesticides and lifesaving irrigation. Avoiding inorganic fertilizers will increase plant defence against biotic and abiotic stresses. Advisory for beekeepers yy Beekeepers and their support staffs should always use masks yy Honey extractors and other equipment should be washed periodically with hot clean water. yy Arrange for shade to protect the colonies from scorching sun yy Fishery advisory yy Pond preparation for fish seed stocking for the current year should be initiated immediately yy Dry pond bottom, Plough the bottom and leave for 3-4days, Refill pond upto at least 3 ft depth, apply a mixture of raw cow dung, mustard oil cake and single super phosphate @ 7500kg, 750kg and 75kg per hectare respectively, after 2 days apply lime @ 300kg per 109 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS hectare, After another 2 days test water pH and transparency (7.5- 8.5 and 30-45cm respectively, release fish fingerlings Animal science advisory yy To meet up the need of protein in feed add urea in straw as per advice of veterinarian. Also add salt, gur and mineral salt yy Be aware of animal disease like PPR LSD Pox etc and Ranikhet of poultry and Pox and plague of duck yy Do not hesitate to take milk meat and egg as there is no chance of infection of corona virus as high temperature during cooking kills the virus and these food increase immunity against the virus 110 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS ANDAMAN & NICOBAR ISLANDS yy Agricultural operations should be done with machine driven equipment as much as possible. Sanitize the equipment with soap water at least 3 times a day, when handmade cutting equipment is used. yy Custom Hiring Centers (CHC) related to farm machinery are exempted.