 The present volume on Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 1 is aimed at providing easy accessibility to such information in agriculture and allied areas. The ITKs compiled in the present volume have been classified under different subject matter areas, viz rain water management, soil and water erosion, tillage and intercultural management, crops and cropping systems, pest and disease management, soil fertility management, farm implements, post-harvest technology, grain/seed storage, horticultural crops, veterinary science and animal husbandry, fisheries, ethno-botany and agro-biodiversity, weather forecasting, food product development, agro-animal based yarns/natural dyes and weaves, and low cost housing materials. An effort has also been made to provide additional information like scientific/botanical names, common names in different languages, short description of its use and geographical indicators of the plant species being used in ITKs. The document acknowledges the sources of ITKs and the references and the literature cited have been attempted to record. (iii) PREFACE The Mission Unit is indebted to Dr R. S. Paroda, former Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR for providing guidance and support for developing the project proposal. The Mission Unit expresses its gratitude to Dr Panjab Singh, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR, New Delhi for his interest in the project, support and encouragement. The guidance received from Dr A. Alam, Dy. Director General (Agri. Engg.) and Chairman, ITK Information Committee and all the members of the Committee is highly acknowledged. We are thankful to Dr P. L. Gautam, former National Director; and Dr K. P. Agrawal, National Coordinator (MM) of NATP for providing constant support and encouragement. We acknowledge all the communicators, authors, and all those who were consulted while compiling the present volume. Special thanks are due to Dr S.K. Das, Principal Investigator and all the Zonal Leaders of the project, Mr Z. D. Kavia, Smt. M. Geelha Rani, Dr A. Mishra, Dr K. M. Bajurbaruah, Dr L. R. Verma, ,Dr H. P. S. Arya, Dr H. S. Gupta, Dr R. P. Singh (Ratan), Dr C. Satapathy and Dr G. Subba Reddy for providing various literature related to ITKs. Thanks are also to Mr Sanjay Kushwaha, Programmer, for computerization of the manuscript and, Mr Murlee Yadav and Miss Rashmi Chaudhary, students of Jawaharlal Nehru Krishi Vishwavidalaya for helping in collection of various information. Mr A. Chakravarty, Director, Mr C. S. Viswanath, Chief Editor (English) and Mr V. K. Bharti, Chief Production Officer of DIPA with their team have taken all pains in editing the manuscript and publishing the document. We are thankful to them. June 23, 2002 (P.