 National Fellow was initiated to promote excellence at national level in agricultural research & education and recognize the meritorious contribution of individual agricultural scientists/teachers and facilitate their research and related activities in agriculture. 50 researchers have been awarded National Fellow from 1994 till 2022. The contribution of National Professors and National Fellows in the form of technologies, patents, copyrights have immensely benefited the knowledge pool of the country. 6.3. ICAR Emeritus Professors ICAR Emeritus Professor program for tapping brain and skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals of NARES was initiated during 2016-17 so as to utilize their talent in teaching courses and other related activities, student research guidance and developing instructional material/text books including e-learning resources for use in national agricultural education programme and distance education in the field of agriculture and allied areas and improve the quality of education across SAUs by addressing the shortage of faculty. Till date 73 superannuated faculties have been awarded Emeritus Professor. 6.4. ICAR Emeritus Scientists This programme initiated in 1973-74 to utilize the services of outstanding superannuated scientists/teachers from NARES by allowing them to complete the nationally important research already underway and also for initiating a new programme in nationally important priority areas, teaching specialized courses, developing quality instructional material for use in national agricultural education programme including distance education. The programme has helped to make use of the experience of retired Indian Agriculture after Independence 324 professionals for remedying manpower imbalances in some of the crucial areas of research (Agrawal et al. 2021). 109 researchers have been selected as Emeritus Scientists from 2015 till 2022. Box 8: Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) In order to identify the potential major disciplines/departments in SAUs/ ICAR institutes which have developed facilities and leadership in their specialization and to provide need-based financial assistance for further accelerating the programmes of identified disciplines/departments so as to make them capable’ in undertaking advanced teaching, research, extension and also training to the faculties of other Universities/Institutes for enhancing their capabilities in use of educational innovations, modern teaching and research methodology along with serving as repository of ideas and information in concerned discipline/department, establishment of Centre of Advanced Studies (CAS) in selected ICAR institutes and State Agricultural Universities was initiated in the year 1993-94 which was later renamed as Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT). Every year under CAFT about 60 capacity building programmes are conducted with average 18-20 faculties/scientists in each programme. 6.5.