) in Spiti Infestation of WAA on (A) nursery plants; (B) shoots of apple tree; (C) infected roots Valley, was used in the preparation of Agniastr as a herbal input in place of neem, which is not locally available. It is also known as Khurasani ajwain, henbane, black henbane or stinking nightshade in Spiti and is poisonous in large quantities. This herb belongs to the family Solanaceae and is an upright, hairy, and viscous plant. Its basal leaves are oblong-ovate with coarse serrations on the edges, and are attached to the stem via petioles. The leaves that grow up the stem are oval-shaped, with an irregularly lobed or pinnate structure, and no petioles. The flowers are a bright green colour with purple veins, with lower ones in the branch forks and upper ones growing singly in the axils of the leaf-like bracts, forming a one-sided spike. This plant is commonly found in open areas and along roadsides at an elevation of 3000-3600 meters in dry temperate zone. Its insecticidal significance lies in the high concentration of alkaloid compounds, such as hyoscyamine and scopolamine that have a direct effect on the central nervous system. Table 1. Composition of Agniastr used at Spiti against woolly apple aphid under natural farming Particulars Quantity Leaves of local herb (Thuklang) 5 Kg Cow urine 20 litre Tobacco powder 500 gm Green chilli paste 500 gm Garlic paste 250 gm Agniastr was made up by mixing crushed leaves of Thuklang (local herb), tobacco powder, spicy chilli and garlic paste in cow’s urine and cooked at low flame till the boiling point. The solution was kept for 48 hours and was rotated with stick during the morning and evening hours for 2-3 minutes in clockwise direction. The solution was diluted as 5 litres of concentrated Agniastr in 200 litres of water (for application) with a precaution that this Agniastr concentrate must be used within three months of manufacture. The trials on the efficacy of conventional farming (CF) (Chloropyrifos 20EC), organic farming (OF) (Azadirachtin 0.003%) and natural farming (NF) (Thuklang local shrub as the main ingredient in Agniastr) products for the management of woolly apple aphid (E. lanigerum) population and subsequent effects on the population of its parasitoid wasp (A. mali) were conducted during 2020- 21 and 2021-22 in three different blocks with 40 apple (cv. Royal Delicious) plants in each block at Regional Woolly apple aphid colonies on twigs of apple tree in Spiti (A) (B) (C) Indian Horticulture 18 Horticulture Research Sub-station and Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Lahaul & Spiti II at Tabo, Dr. YSP University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni, Solan, Himachal Pradesh. Infestation of Woolly apple aphid (WAA) was recorded on apple trees under all systems at weekly intervals from June-August (peak activity time) in both cropping seasons.