 Admala), kavurussm@gmail. com (K. Prasad). Contents lists available at ScienceDirect Heliyon journal homepage: www.cell.com/heliyon https://doi.org/10.1016/j.heliyon.2024.e41196 Received 27 July 2024; Received in revised form 11 December 2024; Accepted 12 December 2024 Heliyon 11 (2025) e41196 Available online 17 December 2024 2405-8440/© 2024 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ). 1. Introduction In recent times, a significant surge of population across the world inclusive of the semi-arid zones of southern India, and the subsequent high necessity for food compel the agriculturists to adopt industrial agricultural practices, thus threatening the sustain­ ability of this farming practice [1]. This facilitates the soil degradation process. All these lead towards the decrement in soil’s capacity to perform its ecological functions and ecosystem services, slow-down biological diversity and thus, increase environmental issues which ultimately result in poor soil quality and crop productivity. Therefore, there is an urgent need to encourage eco-friendly agricultural management practices to better make use of plant symbionts. For instance, arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi (AMF); soil quality indicator, has got various effects on ecosystem and can be used to assess ecosystem development brought about by imposed agricultural management practices [2]. Conservation agriculture (CA) has emerged as a promising revolutionary farming practice to be implemented not limited to semi-arid regions of India to gauge its effect on AMF and subsequent secretion of glomalin in soil, and other related soil quality parameters (soil microbial biomass carbon, β-galactosidase activity and soil organic carbon) which play a crucial part in soil aggregate stability. Conservation agriculture is defined as agricultural production strategy meant to bolster the sustain­ ability of food production through preservation of soil and biological resources below and above the ground on a long-term basis with limited mechanical input [3], and it is based on these tenets; minimum soil disturbance, permanent soil cover through crop residues or cover crops, and crop rotations for achieving higher productivity. Minimal soil disturbances in zero tillage (ZT) practices with continual build-up of the crop residues on the soil surface all over the year may encourage AMF and abundance owing to enhanced establishment and preservation of extensive hyphal network. AMF is well-known to secrete considerable amount of glomalin content (GC) on hyphal network [4]. Glomalin is a constituent of soil organic matter (SOM) [5–7] that play a key role in the stabilization of the soil aggregates, soil organic carbon sequestration and improvement of the soil quality [8].