 One week after the application of lime apply 5 kg trichoderma enriched organic manure, 1 kg neem cake and 100 g rock phosphate per pit which helps in root initiation. Š Š Take necessary control measures against thrips, white flies etc. Continue irrigation, apply mulch and clean the drainage channels. Š Š Harvesting: Peak period of harvest is from August - October. Turmeric and ginger: Š Š Plant turmeric and ginger healthy rhizomes (20-25 g with at least 2 buds) in small pits, mulch the crop using glyricidia after planting. Apply lime, manure and fertilizers as per recommended practices or by soil test means Vegetables Pest Š Š Aphids:-There is a chance of aphids in cowpea. Apply 2% neemoil emulsion or apply 20 g Verticilliumlecanii per one litre of water in 10 days intervals. If aphid attack is severe, apply 3 ml Imidacloprid or 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litre of water. Š Š White fly:- Apply 2% neem oil garlic emulsion or spray 20g Lecanicilliumlecanii per one litre of water in ten days intervals to control the attack of white fly in chilli, brinjal and tomato. Š Š Thrips:- There is a chance of thrips attack in chilli. Apply 2% neem oil garlic emulsion or spray 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litres of water. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 188 Š Š Spodoptera:-If the attack is in the initial stage, the affected leaves of cabbage and cauliflower, should be destroyed along with egg, caterpillar and pupa. Neem Kernel suspension (5 percentage) should be sprayed. If the attack is severe, spray Flubendamide (Tukumi) 2 ml per ten litre of water or Chlorantraniliprole (Coragen) 3 ml per ten litre of water. Š Š Fruit borer:- To control fruit borer in cowpea, apply 5% Neem Kernel Suspension to control fruit borer in the initial stage. Spray Flubendamide 2 ml per10 litre of water or Chlorantraniliprole 3 ml per10 litre if the attack is severe. Š Š Green leaf hopper:-There is a chance of green leaf hopper attack in bhindi. Spray 2 g thiamethoxam per ten litre of water. Š Š Jassid :- Due to increase in atmospheric temperature, Jassid attack may be increased. They can be controlled by applying 2% neem oil emulsion once in a week or by spraying Lecanicilliumlecanii at 20 g per litre of water. Disease Š Š Anthracnose disease:- During rainy season, there is a chance of Anthracnose disease in Cowpea. As a prophylactic measure, apply 1% Bordeaux mixture or spray copper oxychloride 3 gram per one litre of water. Š Š Downy mildew:- Due to high relative humidity, there is a chance of downy mildew attack in bitter gourd. As a prophylactic measure, spray pseudomonas solution (20 g per one litre) under the leaves. Animal Husbandry Š Š Ensure the availability of green fodder to the animal daily. Provide mineral and vitamin mixture in prescribed quantity daily. Š Š Mix 30g sodium bicarbonate and 1-teaspoon yeast in the feed daily to avoid digestive disorders associated with excessive acidity.