 How can I be against machinery? This body itself is the most delicate machinery”. MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Increase in agricultural production has simultaneously resulted in the generation of large quantities of agricultural crop residues, livestock waste and other agro-industrial by-products. A significant increase in global agricultural wastes production is expected if the developing countries continue intensification of farming systems. This has opened up ample scope for the establishment of rural entrepreneurship based on utilization of various agro-wastes viz. residues from the growing and processing of raw agricultural products such as crops, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, and dairy products. It is estimated that about 350 million tonnes (Mt) of agro-based organic waste is produced in India every year (Harshwardhan and Upadhyay 2017). Converting some of the waste materials into valuable products or energy could be an efficient way of waste management. People in rural India have limited access to energy. The rural energy situation at present is also characterized by a low quality of fuel, low energy use efficiency and low reliability of supply leading to lower productivity of land, water and labour, ultimately leading to poor quality of life and environmental degradation. Thus access to quality, reliable and affordable energy is very much essential for promoting economic and social development in rural areas. Gandhiji wanted to use the resources of a village in that village itself. The energy should be generated using the energy resources available at the village and the generated energy should be used by the residents of that village. Gandhiji had firm belief in self-sufficiency and self-reliance of rural India. His dream was to see each and every farmer and villager working for all round development of village and nation. All rural people should get the proper work and substantial money for their livelihood. The essential facility should reach to the villagers and if possible, to be managed by villagers. The dependency of rural area to the urban area and industries should be as low as possible. The resources available in the villages should be adequately managed, engaged and channelized to give employment to rural mass specially covering the rural youth and women. 108 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Agro-based industries can prosper in rural India where manpower is abundant and labour cost is also low. Developing agri-enterprises can immensely benefit the rural economy by generating employment opportunities, reducing the burden on agriculture, reducing the need for migration from rural to urban areas, and increasing the individual and national income in rural areas. The objective of this chapter is to highlight some of the agricultural waste based technologies developed by ICAR-CIAE for rural entrepreneurship development. 2.