 Intercropping Mentha can also be grown as intercrop. a) Sugarcane + mentha intercropping: Plant one row of mentha between two rows of sugarcane. Mentha and sugarcane can be planted simultaneously in the first fortnight of February. Use one quintal of mentha suckers per acre. In addition to fertilizers recommended to sugarcane, apply 18 kg N (39 kg urea) and 10 kg P2 O5 (62 kg super phosphate) per acre. Half N and full phosphorus may be applied at planting and remaining half N about 40 days after planting. Take only one cutting of mentha. b) Sunflower + mentha intercropping: Mentha can be successfully intercropped with sunflower. Sow two rows of mentha in end January between two lines of sunflower grown at 120 cm × 15 cm in North-South direction. Use 150 kg of mentha suckers per acre. In addition to fertilizers recommended to sunflower, apply 23 kg N (50 kg urea) and 12 kg P2O5 (75 kg single superphosphate) per acre. Full phosphorus and half nitrogen be applied at planting and remaining half nitrogen at 40 days after planting. c) Mentha + Onion intercropping: Onion can be grown as intercrop in mentha. Both mentha and onion should be planted simultaneously from the mid-January to end January. Plant one row of onion in between the two rows of mentha planted at 45 cm, keeping plant to plant spacing of onion at 7.5 cm. Apply 13 kg N (29 kg urea), 7 kg P2O5 (44 kg SSP) and 7 kg K2O (12 kg MOP) per acre in addition to recommended fertilizer of mentha. Full phosphorus and potash and half nitrogen be applied at planting and the remaining half nitrogen about 40 days after planting. Fertilizer application: Mentha responds favourably to organic manuring. Apply 10-15 tonnes of well-rotten farmyard manure per acre before planting. The following quantities of inorganic fertilizers are recommended: Nutrients (kg/acre), Fertilizers (kg/acre) N, P2O5, Urea, DAP* or Single Superphosphate 60, 16, 130, 35, 100.* When 35 kg DAP is used, apply 115 kg urea per acre. Drill one-fourth of nitrogen and the full quantity of phosphorus at planting. Apply another one fourth of nitrogen about 40 days after planting. Add the remaining Processed mentha oil Distillation units for extracting mentha oil March–April 2021 13 half dose of nitrogen in two equal splits after the first cutting of the crop. The first split may be applied immediately and the second split 40 days afterwards. Irrigation: Mentha requires frequent but light irrigations. Irrigate at 10 days interval till the end of March and at five or six days interval till the onset of the monsoon. During the rainy season, irrigate according to the need. Drip irrigation and fertigation: Menthol mint should be drip irrigated at 3 days interval with a lateral pipe having dripper discharge of 2.