 Among the categories, OBC (NCL) candidates were highest (3,815) followed by General (3,787), SC (1,769), ST (831) and General-EWS (799). Award of fellowships ICAR Fellowships for post graduate students: To attract and retain the talent and promotion of merit in general, and for encouraging talented students to undertake higher agricultural education in particular, the ICAR awards ICAR-PG scholarships (PGS) and JRF/SRF to post-graduate (PG) and doctoral (PhD) students in different disciplines of agriculture and allied sciences. A total of 583 and 292 students were awarded ICAR PGS and ICAR JRF/SRF for Master’s and Doctoral studies, respectively. Internship Allowance: Allowence to 5,037 veterinary graduates trained by Agricultural/ Veterinary Universities was provided. National Talent Scholarship (NTS): Merit-based support through the National Talent Scholarship to the under-graduates (UG) and master’s degree students admitted in AUs through ICAR All India Entrance Examination (AIEE), was provided. During the year 10,010 UG and 3,376 PG students were provided NTS. ICAR Post-Doctoral Fellowship (ICAR-PDF): It is a new programme initiated to identify and support motivated young researchers for conducting research in frontier areas of agriculture and allied sciences to build the national capacity. It provides them a platform to develop as independent researchers capable of initiating a new programme in nationally important priority areas under the supervision of a mentor. Globalization of agricultural education Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships: “Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships” for pursuing doctoral degrees in agriculture and allied sciences in the priority research areas is awarded to the, (i) Indian candidates for studying abroad in the identified overseas Universities/Institutions having strong research and teaching capabilities, and (ii) to overseas candidates for study in the Indian Agricultural Universities (AUs) in the ICAR-AUs system. The aim is to create a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future cooperation. As per guidelines, 30 fellowships are available every year. A total of 6 candidates were selected for the year 2022- 23, of which 4 Indian and 2 overseas candidates were selected from Nepal for Ph.D. under this programme. To streamline the process online portal for the award of fellowships has been created and linked with the Education Portal. Out of 224 candidates selected since 2009-10 to 2020-23, 114 candidates have completed their Ph.D under this programme. One hundred (100) candidates including 10 foreign national candidates are currently doing Ph.D in their identified universities. Merit-cum-means scholarship Scholarships to meritorious undergraduate students belonging to below-poverty-line families to study agriculture, and allied subjects are awarded annually on the basis of merit-cum-means.