 Under late sowing situations, higher plant densities are recommended upto 44 plants /m2 through increased seed rate and zig zag sowings Optimum time of sowing is October –November. For the prevention of soil and seed borne diseases-damping off, seed rot, wilt, dry root rot and better yield seed should be treated ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 369 with fungicides and antifungal bio agents. Captan or Thiram @ 3 g or Mancozeb or Carbendazim @ 2.5 g per kg seed. Pre emergence Spray of Pendimethalin @ 2.5 to 3.5 l/ha immediately after sowing or within 24 hrs of sowing will be effective in controlling the seasonal weeds. Apply 20 kg N, 50 Kg P2O5, 40 kg S/ha as basal dose at the time of last ploughing. Phosphate should be given in form of Super phosphate. One or two light irrigations at pre flowering at 30-35 days and seed formation at 55-65 days will increase yields. Avoid water logging at any cost as chickpea is very sensitive to poor soil aeration. Foliar sprays of 2 % DAP or Urea at pre flowering stage will enhance yields. Spray Chloropyriphos @ 2.5 ml or Quinolphos @ 2.0ml/l for control of leaf eating caterpillar. Sesame Sesame can be grown on a wide range of soils but well drained light to medium textured soils is preferred. Keep the field weed free and perfectly levelled to avoid water logging to which sesame is highly sensitive. For the prevention of seed borne diseases, use treated seed with Carbendazim @ 3 g/kg of seed Time of sowing for summer crop is January Second Fortnight to February first fortnight. The crop is very sensitive to weed competition during the first 20- 25 days. Two weedings, one after 15-20 days of sowing and other at 30-35 days after sowing are required to keep the field weed free and to make moisture and nutrients available to the crop. For Summer crop give the irrigation, immediately after sowing to improve germination and plant establishment. The subsequent irrigations may be given at an interval of 12-15 days depending on ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 370 the soil type, weather conditions and season. For good seed filling and yield, irrigations at flower initiation and capsule formation are essentially required. Sunflower Sunflower performs well on a wide range of soils such as sandy loams, black soils and alluvials. It prefers mostly fertile, well- drained neutral soils. It can tolerate slight alkaline conditions but not acidity. Water logging areas should be avoided for its cultivation. Light period of 8-10 hrs during flowering and seed filling stage improves yield and oil content. During Yasangi season and under Zero tillage conditions, optimum sowing time is November- December. For Summer season 2nd fortnight of January to 1st fortnight of February is optimum time. Seed treatment with Thiomethaxom @ 3 gm / kg seed or Imidacloprid @ 5 ml /kg seed can protect the crop against necrosis.