 Worldwide, agriculture is becoming competitive price-wise and its produce acceptable quality-wise. Price and brand equity have become more prominent than before. Indian agriculture is no exception and its objectives have to align with stakeholders’ needs, clients’ perspective, peer concerns and market vibes. Greater infusion of frontier science subjects (biotechnology, nanotechnology, precision agriculture and information and communication technology), legal aspects, good practices of trade, ethics of IPR and GMO, market intelligence and modern information and communication techniques have become more important to promote efficiency, awareness, equity, and competitiveness in agriculture. In pursuance of that, development and institutionalization of easily accessible and user-friendly knowledge systems to support decision making by various client groups has become necessary. 2.2.6. Lack of adequate resources with educational institutions: The SAUs are charged with complete integration of teaching, research and extension for holistic rural development. Most of the SAUs have not been able to achieve integration of these functions due to limited physical, financial and appropriate human resources. Comfortable food situation and concerns in other areas of human welfare (disease, malnutrition, environment) should not be allowed to stand in the way of raising public investments in agricultural education, which is in forefront of S&T development. Through innovative programmes (consultancy, enrollment of foreign students, sale of seed/planting material etc.) SAUs and other public supported Institutions will be required to raise their own resources for S&T. Linkages and partnerships among SAUs and other public and private sector institutions will be an inescapable imperative to become more efficient in financial management and value add to output with minimum investments in inputs. 2.2.7. Faculty and students: Quality of education in most of the agricultural universities is adversely affected due to shortage of teaching faculty, lack of motivation and opportunity for development of faculty with time and space and 11 the regional inbreeding. Certain disciplines like Agricultural Economics, Agricultural Meteorology, Agricultural Statistics although integral to the curriculum, yet lack the required faculty in many institutions. Quality of students entering the agricultural education has been gradually improving but is still below the mark which calls for making agricultural education more attractive, demand driven and rewarding. 2.2.8. Changing HRD needs with scientific advancements: With the advances in science and technology in general and agriculture and allied sectors in particular, changing economic status, life styles, food habits and demand for processed/value added foods and the global vision, the curriculum would need to be periodically reoriented with increased emphasis on secondary agriculture.