 NFC’s recommendation (Cost C2+50 %) can be used as a guide (Rs. 1800/q for 2010 paddy and wheat based on 2009 cost calculations) iii. Price differential (MSP –actual realised/procurement price) should be paid directly to farmer iv. There is a provision for enhancing the production by technology interventions for bridging the yield gap and reducing the cost of production. Hence, i. Government should promote and give a boost to dissemination of promising technologies to the farmers ii. Incentives should be tagged with adoption of Soil health card based input use and integrated pest management that can reduce pesticide load on environment and also the adverse effect on human health iii. Cost intensive soil moisture conservation and soil conservation technologies to be supported by the Government in the larger interest of sustainable agriculture iv. Soil health card schemes should be effectively utilized as ground truth data to employ GIS based mapping technologies for devising decision support system on choice of crop and appropriate production and protection technology v. Diversification and value addition can add income for farmers and this can involve non farm or off-farm activities to reduce total dependence on agriculture. Hence, i. Government should encourage district level or even tehsil level crop plan ii. Introduction of new crop or cropping system iii. Storage, processing and marketing structures even at smallest administrative setup such as Tehsil by appropriately bridging the gaps in existing system iv. Should promote rural artisans which can boost agro tourism v. Doubling the income of farmer’s income by 2022 is not an easy task but not an impossible task if a perfect coordination is established between research and educational institute implementing agencies i.e state departments Hence, i. Necessary action has to be taken to ensure involvement of SAUs, ICAR institutes and line departments are established 354 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 ii. The government schemes to be appropriately tagged with technology dissemination with initiatives for adoption iii. There should be custom hiring centres and storage structure at smallest unit of administration SUCCESS STORIES 1. High density planting of Straight variety of Dr PDKV AKH081 cotton with intercropping under tribal area of Akot tehsil of Akola district Bt cotton grower shifted to organic farming with Straight variety of cotton due to severe attack of sucking pests. A farmer Shekhadsingh Aabassinh Chavan of Borva, tribal village of Akola district grew Dr PDKV Hirsutum variety AKH081 which is short duration variety and matured in 140 days. Added 1 ton FYM and also used 1 ton biodynamic compost/acre (S-9 culture) before sowing and Used high density population about 1.66lakh/ha (60x10cm) with 15 kg seed rate /ha and after 8 row of cotton two row of Pigeonpea PKV Tara 2 kg seed rate/ha was grown as intercrop. . Biocultures were used for seed treatment.