 Title of the 1TK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2865 Control of aphids, whiteflies and caterpillar in groundnut 2866 Control of green caterpillar in groundnut 2867 Method to drive away birds in the field About 1.5 kg sitafal (Annona squamosa) leaves are ground and mixed in 1 litre water and filtered. Similarly, about 500 g dried chillies (Highariya variety) are soaked overnight in 1 litre water and the water drained from the top. Then 1 kg neem (Azadirachta indica) seeds are ground and soaked overnight in 2 litre water. All these three are mixed together and diluted in 10 litres water and sprayed on the affected crops. Within 2-3 days the problem of sucking pests and caterpillar can be controlled. Keywords: sitafal, chilli, neem, caterpillar, groundnut, whiteflies, aphid Shri Govindbhai J. Desai has adopted this method since the last 4 years. Now the neighbouring farmers have also started adopting it. For control of green caterpillar in groundnut, Shri Govindbhai has developed a mixture using sitafal (Annona squamosa), neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss) leaves, water in which green chilies have been soaked overnight, bitter orayo, and filtrate of biogas available from bandel. The solution is sprayed on the groundnut crop, which results in 70 to 80% control of pests, which is considerably more than the use of chemical pesticides. Keywords: sitafal, bandel, green caterpillar, groundnut, green chillies Audio cassettes and tapes after use are generally thrown out. Lengthy tapes are taken out from the cassettes. These tapes are tied on poles placed at different distances in the agricultural field. The tapes shine in the sunshine and also make sound at wind breeze. The sound and shining reflected from Shri Peethabhai M. Pataat, Junagadh (Gujarat) Shri J. Govindbhai Desai, Junagadh (Gujarat) National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Hirabai Gawas, Porye, Sattari, dist. North Goa (Goa) 403 602 Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2868 Control of pests in castor by using tamarind and lemon 2869 Rodent control by using gilmat leaves 2870 Rodent control by using seeds of sui plant the tapes help drive away the birds in the field, specially in groundnut. Keywords: audio cassettes, shine, sound, bird drive away About 500 ml of tamarind (Tamarindus indica) is mixed with 500 ml juice of lemon in 15 litres water. This solution is sprayed over the infested crop in 0.25 ha. He and other farmers also reported complete control of pests in castor by using this technique. Keywords: castor, lemon, pest, tamarind Rat (locally known as missi in Garo hills, Meghalaya) is a major pest that damages crop in fields as well as grains in store-houses. Gilmat (Entada phaseoloides) leaves are kept at different places in rice field and hot- cooked rice is kept on the leaves of gilmat.