 cold water extract of fresh leaves, hot water extract of fresh leaves, cold water extract of dried leaves and hot water extract of dried leaves of ridge gourd and ekdandi, were Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1. Plan of the experiment Group Number of wounds Treatment A 10 Leaf extract of ridge gourd leaves B 10 Leaf extract of ekdandi leaves C 10 Veterinary medicine: Neosporin ointment (control) prepared as per the standard method prescribed by Omoregbe etal. (1996) to evaluate the in-vitro antibacterial activity. Total 30 clinical cases of wounds in buffaloes of either sex and in the age group of 1 to 3 years were randomly subjected to the following three treatment groups consisting of 10 wounds in each group (Table 1). The wounds were treated at the door step of farmers in Nagpur and adjoining areas. All the wounds were cleaned with moist sterile gauze before application of respective medicament. A sterile gauze soaked in juice was placed on the wounds after gentle squeezing in order to keep the juice in contact with tissue of wound. The juice of ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves and Neosporin ointment were applied once a day to treat the wound till healing. Clinical observation: The wounds in each treatment group were subjected for gross examination (type of wound: fresh or contaminated, presence of discharges like blood, exudates, pus), appearance of granulation tissue, wound contraction (the percentage of wound contraction was calculated at days 0, 3, 6, 9, 12, 15,18 and 21), number of days required for healing and extent of cicatrisation (the cicatrix contraction was assessed on the basis of size of wound on 0 day and then subsequently on every third day up to complete cicatrix formation). The mapping of wound was done with the help of filter-paper by pressing over the wound and moist-area impression was measured by using vernier calipers. The data pertaining to wound size in all the treatment groups at different period intervals were statistically analysed by two-way analysis with multiple observations. Histomophological study: The biopsy sample of the tissues was collected on days 7, 14 and 21 after-treatment and subjected to standard procedure of fixing and staining the tissue for recording the histo-morphological changes during the process of wound healing. In vitro evaluation of antibacterial activity: Various extracts were evaluated for their antibacterial spectrum against indicator organisms such as Staphyolococcus aureus, Statphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus spp., Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Proteus spp. and E. coli using diffusion assay method. CSKHPKV The study was conducted during 2004 on 10- 12 months old healthy male calves (9) that were acclimatized to college animal shed for at least 21 days before start of trials. All the animals were subjected to routine clinical, haematological and faecal examinations to ensure their health status. The animals were dewormed with bolus Fentas (fenbendazole) @ 7.