 This has identified 116 SNPs in 61 protein-coding genes and of these, 16 have been found to enhance phosphorous uptake and utilization efficiency in mungbean. Identified six genes (VRADI01G04370, VRADI05G20860, VRADI06G12490, VRADI08G20910, VRADI08G00070 and VRADI09G09030) with a high expression in root, shoot apical meristem and leaf, indicating their role in the regulation of P uptake and utilization efficiency in mungbean. The SNPs present in three genes have also been validated using a Sanger sequencing approach. Jute leaf flavonoids inhibit human matrix metalloproteinase 2 (MMP 2) activity: Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs), a group of endopeptidases involved in tumor cell metastasis, are widely used as biomarkers of carcinoma and its therapeutic targets. The potential of jute flavonoids as an anti-MMP-2 agent was investigated using gelatin zymography and immunoblotting. Flavonoid extract from Capsularis olitorius JRO 524 inhibited the breakdown of pro- MMP-2 into active MMP-2, thereby rendering it inactive. The extent of inhibition was at par with the positive control [epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG)] and higher than that of flavonoids from C. capsularis cv. JRC 212. The presence of flavonoid compounds like catechin, apigenin, quercetin, and genistein in jute that block MMP activity was confirmed. The high anti-MMP2 activity of jute flavonoids in vitro indicates the anti-tumorigenic potential of jute flavonoids. Inhibition of MMP-2 activity by jute leaf flavonoids. (a) Gelatine zymogram of human MMP-2 treated with different flavonoid inhibitors (1: MMP-2+Tea epigallocatechin gallate, 2: MMP- 2+distilled water, 3: MMP-2+C. capsularis flavonoids, 4: MMP- 2+C. olitorius flavonoids). (b) Western blot of human MMP-2 with anti-human/mouse MMP-2 antibody. Flax biotechnology for heat-stress adaptation: The adaptation of superior quality fibre flax cultivars to hot Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 50 and humid conditions is critical for the area expansion of flax in India. Plants use epigenetic methylation, also known as DNA methylation, to adapt to harsh environmental conditions. A bisulphite sequencing strategy was used to conduct a genome-wide survey of cytosine DNA methylation patterns in response to heat stress to investigate the adaptation of fibre flax cultivars to high temperature stress. This is the first report of a flax epigenomic study. The experiment was carried out on seedlings of JRF-2, a putatively heat tolerant fibre flax cultivar, which were either treated or not treated with a hypomethylating agent, 5-Azacytidine (5-AzaC). The samples were then compared between heat-stressed seedlings and control seedlings. Bisulphite sequencing in flax under heat stress conditions identified 85.1- 90.5 million methylated DNA loci in CpG/CHG/CHH sequence contexts. From the analysis of differentially methylated regions, it was concluded that DNA hypomethylation is the primary response to heat stress in flax.