 Keywords: stomach worms, sugar solution, butter milk Juice of 10 leaves of aru (peach) and watermelon is extracted and 200-250 g butter milk is added to it by farmers of Khiraka village of Bareilly district (Uttar Pradesh) for killing the worms inside animal stomach. This dose is given twice or thrice daily. The worms of animal die. Keywords: peach leaves, watermelon leaves, worm, butter milk Shri Rajendra Prasad, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, Auadh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Watermelon leaves 3125 Control of worms in animals by buttermilk and black salt 3126 Treatment of stomach worms in animals by milk and sira (molasses) 3127 Deworming in calves by andya tree leaves Butter milk (1 litre) is mixed with black salt (50 g) by cattle owners of village Tarba of district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. This mixture is fed to the animal twice a day. All the worms die. Key words: butter milk, black salt, worm About 250 ml each of sira and milk (without boiling) are mixed and fed to the animal by cattle owners of village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. All the worms in animals die. Keywords: sira, milk, worm Calves suffer from the problem of worms up to the age of 6 months due to the habit of soil eating. Extract of 30^1-0 g green leaves of andya tree is taken out and mixed with 100 ml Shri Nanhe Ram, S/o Shri Raghu Raj Singh, Tarba, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3 128 Treatment of worm infection in animals with am leaves 3129 Use of camphor for treatment of worm infestation 3130 Treatment of worm in infected part of animal by leaves of hajare (Phyllanthus niruri) 3131 Treatment of worms in injury place of animals by soil ant nests lukewarm water. This solution is given to the suffering calf. This dose is given for 3 days to get complete relief from worms. Alternative practice for deworming when adya tree is not found effective by a few cattle owners is to use datepalm. About 100 g date palm is ground and mixed with 200 ml fresh water and given to the calf once a day for 3 days. This practice is being followed in Alwar district of Rajasthan. Keywords: worms, soil eating, andya tree, lukewarm, datepalm A paste is prepared by mixing 200 g am leaves and 50 g asafoetida. This paste is applied on the infected part twice daily. The worm infection is controlled. This ITK is practised in village Sundyaba in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: worm infection, am leaves, asafoedita This ITK is followed in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. When worm infestation is observed on animal injury, about 10 g camphor is applied on the injured part and it is bandaged.