 These efforts culminated in the development of captive breeding technology for 23 marine ornamental species which include clownfishes (under genera Amphiprion and Premnas), damselfishes Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 193 (under genera Dascyllus, Pomacentrus, Chromis, Neopomacentrus and Chrysiptera), Anthias (Pseudanthias marcia, P. squamipinnis), Firefish (Nemeteleotris decora), Dotty back (Pseudochromis dialect), and Camel shrimp, Rhyncocinetes durbanensis. Recently, breeding and seed production of five designer clownfishes (cross-bred) and two ornamental crustaceans-Thor hainanensis and Acylocaris brevicarpalis (peacock tail shrimp) were also achieved. 2.2.4.2. Marine and freshwater pearl culture In India, the technology for pearl culture has been developed by ICAR-CMFRI for marine pearls and ICAR-CIFA for freshwater pearls (Alagarswami 1974, Janaki Ram, 1989). ICAR-CIFA developed the technology of freshwater pearl farming in the late 1980s using freshwater mussels, viz., Lamellidens marginalis, L. corrianus and Parreysia corrugata, the former being the most important species. To obtain shell-attached half-round or design pearls, as well as unattached and irregular to oval or round pearls, packages of practices for pre-operative conditioning, graft and nuclei implantation, post-operative care, and pond culture of implanted mussels were developed. ICAR-CMFRI initiated the pearl culture research at its Tuticorin centre in 1972 and succeeded in producing spherical pearls in 1973. Subsequently, the technology of Mabe/image pearls has also been developed. The production of fine-quality white and black pearls was with the use of the species Pinctada fucata and P. margaritifera respectively. The institute was also successful in artificially spawning Pinctada fucata, raising larvae, and producing year-round seed in the laboratory. 2.2.5. Modern farming practices: Biofloc-based aquaculture and farming in RAS and Raceways Biofloc-based farming technology is based on management through heterotrophic microflora promoted and maintained through carbon-nitrogen (C-N) ratio manipulation, which can achieve higher productivity through the sustainable intensification concept. It is practiced in both freshwater and brackishwater systems with a wide range of species like shrimp (L. vannamei, P. indicus and P. monodon), tilapia, pangas, carps, and native air- breathing fishes. ICAR-CIBA has standardized the technology protocols for biofloc-based nursery and grow-out culture technology of penaeid shrimps. Production of 400-600 kg of tilapia/pangas or 50-60 kg of shrimp can be achieved from a 10 tone tank system. Recirculatory Aquaculture System (RAS) is considered an environment-friendly aquaculture farming system. Though highly capital intensive, RAS system uses much less water and land facility compared to the flow-through system.