 • Recombinant NS1 protein-based indirect IgG ELISA for sero-diagnosis of Japanese encephalitis in swine. Fisheries Science • Primers for single tube reverse transcriptase-loop mediated isothermal amplification as well as a kit and method for detecting β noda virus infection. • A process and formulation to prepare vibrio antagonistic micro-feed for finfish and shell fish larvae using marine bacteria and a product thereof. Agricultural Engineering • Aonla seed removing and segmentation equipment-mechanical model. • Dipstick for estimation of glucose in potato tubers. • Double roller banana pseudo-stem fibre extractor. • Plant holding and lifting mechanism. Further, the Indian Patent Office granted the following 11 patents, taking ICAR’s cumulative number of granted patents to 181 from 25 institutes. Institute Technology/ Innovation CIBA, Chennai • Molecular tool for the detection of chemolitho autotropic bacteria (IN 275528) CIFA, Bhubaneshwar • A process for differential sero-diagnosis of gram-negative bacterial infections and detection of their toxins in human food in reference to fish and fish products using polyclonal antibodies to their less cross reacting and highly specific extra cellular products antigen (IN 277749) • A competitive ELISA for diagnosis and seromonitoring of microbial infections in cultured freshwater fishes (IN 277740) IVRI, Izatnagar • Oligonucleotide primer sequences for the specific and sensitive detection of Bebesia bigemina by polymerase chain reaction (IN 269419) NBAIR, Bengaluru • A simple and novel design for small-scale solid state mass production unit for antagonistic fungi (IN 275009) NCIPM, New Delhi • An insect rearing device for multiplication of insect larval parasitoid (IN 274901) NDRI, Karnal • A process for the preparation of milk-cake (IN 270312) • Spore germination based detection kit for β-lactam group in milk (IN 273160) • A kit for detection of adulteration of milk with soy-milk (IN 275521) NIRJAFT, Kolkata • Reuse of reactive dyes for jute dyeing following two step two bath method (IN 272713) NRC on Cashew, Puttur • Radial arm type cashew kernel extracting machine (IN 272371) ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 141 50 were finalized for 43 IP protected technologies (i.e. for Design/ Patents/ Trademark/Copyright/Plant Variety Protection). The agreements were signed for 100 technologies of agricultural and its allied sciences, viz. animal food and processing technologies (3); cosmetic industry (1); crop production technologies (26); crop varieties (16); farm machines and tools (13); fish-based products and processes (4); food processing and value addition (32); and textile (5). Incubation Fund was operationalized to address the critical gap observed for successful commercialization of technologies from ICAR institutes. It addresses the much-needed requirements of business incubation for converting agricultural technologies into an attractive commercial proposition.