 Large part of the area of the North-eastern states is degraded, says a new draft report on land degradation prepared by the Indian Space Research Organization’s (ISRO) National Remote Sensing Centre (NRSC). Among the top seven states with the highest increase in the land degradation in the last 10 years, six are North-eastern states. Nagaland stands third with 47 per cent of its land area under degradation. In Manipur, Mizoram and Meghalaya, 38, 35 and 28 per cent of land is degraded. One of the major causes of degradation could be increased frequency of high rainfall. Assam, Manipur, Tripura, Mizoram and Nagaland suffered from minor to major floods in 2018. But more than water Dr Rajkumar Ranjan Singh, Minister of State for External Affairs and Education, participates as an active member in many of the Committees on Health and Family Welfare, Science and Technology, Environment and Forest, and Climate Change. 200 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series erosion, the most common cause of land degradation in these states is acidification of soils which significantly decreases soil productivity. In Nagaland almost 7.5 lakh hectares of land area is acidic (around 45 per cent of the total area of the state); Manipur comes second with 6.3 lakh hectares. In Arunachal Pradesh and Assam, degradation is more by water erosion. Land in the North East is naturally also acidic because of heavy rainfall received every year and the climate change induced high frequency of heavy rainfall would further exacerbate acidification. This situation can be moderated by using lime and organic manures in the soil. Acidification can also be remedied by adopting nutrient management practices and smart crop selections. Sustainable land management (SLM) becomes important for minimizing land degradation, rehabilitating degraded areas and ensuring the optimal use of land resources. Sustainable land management requires collaboration and partnership at all levels– land users, technical experts and policy- makers – to ensure that the causes of the degradation and corrective measures are properly identified. And the relevant policy and regulatory environment would enable adoption of most appropriate management measures. Key takeaways To save north-eastern Indian States, acidification of the soils has to be contained. Remedial measures for acidified soils are: using lime and organic manures, managing nutrient practices and smart crop selection. Rehabilitate degraded lands and contain degradation of soils. 201 Social Issues and Sports GENDER AND NUTRI-SENSITIVE AGRICULTURE Ashok Kumar Singh Gender refers to the economic, social, political and cultural attributes and opportunities associated with being women and men. The social definitions of the gender, what it means to be a woman or a man differ among cultures and changes over time. Gender equality across Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) shows how women and girls are doing in agriculture and in other sectors.