 Accidental pursing of juvenile shoals is the main reason for bycatch in purse seine. Selection of optimum mesh size, proper choice of fishing area, depth and season could lead to better selectivity and reduction of bycatch in purse seines. Use of Medina panel, section of fine mesh which form a type of escape panel, prevents dolphins from becoming entangled in the gear, and back down manoeuvre have been deployed to prevent capture of dolphins in purse seines. Choice of hook design and size, bait type and size, selection of space and time of fishing are approaches for mitigation of bycatch issues in hook and line fisheries and minimize gear interaction with other species. Provision of escape windows for juveniles and non-target species in the design side and appropriate choice of bait type, fishing area, fishing depth, fishing time also help to minimize juvenile catch in traps. Green fishing The concept of ‘Green Fishing’ encompasses energy conservation and minimization of environmental impact of fishing gears. Energy conservation in fishing Motorized and mechanized fishing operations are dependent on fossil fuels, which are non-renewable and limited. Fossil fuel produces increased levels of carbon dioxide in atmosphere contributing to green house effect and other pollutants which are detrimental to the environment and human health. Greenhouse effect leads to irreversible climatic and oceanographic changes. Moreover, spiraling oil prices may Indian Farming November 2020 59 severely affect the economic viability of fishing as a means of food production. World capture fisheries consumes about 50 billion litres of fuel annually (1.2% of the worldwide fuel consumption) releasing an estimated 134 million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere at an average rate of 1.7 tonnes of CO2 per tonne of live-weight of landed product. Annual fuel consumption by the mechanized and motorized fishing fleet of India has been estimated at 1220 million litres which formed about 1% of the entire fossil fuel consumption in India in 2000 (122 billion litres) releasing an estimated 3.17 million tonnes of CO2 into the atmosphere at an average rate of 1.13 tonnes of CO2 per tonne of live- weight of marine fish landed. Introduction of innovative designs of fuel-efficient fishing vessels can reduce the fuel consumption by the fishing sector. By modifying the hull form and reducing vessel weight, fuel consumption can be reduced to a significant level there by reducing carbon footprint. Carbon footprint can also be reduced through introduction of new generation fishing gear materials such as Ultrahigh Molecular Weight Polyethylene (UHMWPE). Use of solar panel for navigation lights reduces the fuel burning and helps reducing pollution in the same vessel. Utilization of solar energy in fishing is an innovative idea to curtail the increasing fuel consumption by the fishing industry and also to reduce pollution.