 Con- sumers’ knowledge about the beneﬁts of public transport and greener vehicles is positively and signiﬁcantly related to their perceived usefulness, attitude, and intention (Wang, Wang, Li, Wang, & Liang, 2018). Soft interventions should be targeted towards generating intrinsic motivations among commuters to choose sustainable modes of transportation. Print and digital media and billboard campaigns should repeatedly highlight the quantiﬁed and exempliﬁed difference every unsustainable transport choice could make. Another accessible channel of effective intervention would be through school children, who are well-positioned to inﬂuence their families to adopt non- motorised and public transport. Alongside, policies must focus on familiarising commuters with public transport availability and co-beneﬁts, e.g., making people aware of the train routes and travel time productivity (D€allenbach, 2020). Conclusions India, a rapidly industrialising and the most populous nation on earth, is struggling to ﬁnd a balance between improving its citizens’ lives and pursuing sustainable development. To achieve carbon neutrality by 2070, GOI has implemented poli- cies in the energy, transport, and agriculture sectors, which are crucial for national development and, at the same time, responsible for producing the majority of GHG emissions. This study examined GOI’s policy focus in these three critical sec- tors from a triple-bottom-line perspective, and based on the same, an integrated policy framework necessary to reach the country’s sustainability goals is proposed below. Figure 10 outlines the proposed framework for managing the energy transition while addressing the needs of Indian citizens in a sustainable manner. According to this frame- work, the focus areas are divided into the following four broad categories: Policies designed to manage the energy transition India urgently needs to introduce a cap-and-trade system for energy-intensive sectors to instil discipline within the indus- try, attract private investments in decarbonisation technolo- gies, and concurrently reduce emissions while generating job opportunities. This should be coupled with enhanced grid integration of renewable energy sources, aligned with incentives for DISCOMs to encourage user adoption. Addi- tionally, the government should develop efﬁcient energy consumption and storage systems, employing market-based pricing mechanisms to ensure grid stability and optimise renewable power generation. While electricity prices may increase in the short term, these measures have the poten- tial for long-term emission reductions and can result in sub- stantial savings in the long run. Fig.