 Cutworms and armyworms [Mythimna separata Walker, Spodoptera litura (Fab) (Noctuidae: Lepidoptera)]: Sorghum, ragi, pearl millet, foxtail millet, maize and members of Poaceae are the major hosts. The larvae feed on the leaves, especially in the nursery of ragi. It scraps the green matter of the leaf tissue and the leaves show a skeletonised appearance. They emerge at night to feed on the roots and shoots of ragi plants and hide in the soil during day time. The affected field looks as if grazed by cattle. Grasshoppers [Hieroglyphus nigrorepletus (Bolivar), H. banian (Fab), Colemania sphenarioides (Bolivar), Chrotogonus spp. Sesamia inferens larvae and adults Shoot fly adults and damages Indian Farming 19 March 2023 (Acrididae: Orthoptera)]: It feeds on all millets and other members of Poaceae. The nymphs and adults feed on the leaf by consuming large amounts of leaves and defoliates which gives the grazed appearance. Grasshoppers and locusts feed on foliage and destroy the crop. nymphs suck sap from the tender leaves and spikelet’s, and spread to entire plants leading to stunting and reduced vigor. The base of the plant is attended by ants, such plants when pulled out show aphid colonies. Whereas R. Maidis transmits the mosaic virus. and feed on the grains. Ear heads are partially eaten and appear chalky. Earhead bug: Calocoris angustatus (Lethiery) cause damage to pearl millet, sorghum, maize, tenai, sugarcane and grasses. The adults and nymphs damage the ear heads by sucking the juice from the grains at the milky stage. The sucked- out grain, shrink and turn black in colour and become ill-filled or chaffy. Older grain shows distinct feeding punctures that reduce grain quality. Soil dwelling insects White grub: (Holotrichia sp, Anomola sp): It devastates the pearl millet crop in large areas in central Mythimna separate larvae and adults Spodoptera litura larvae and adults Shoot bug Aphids Sorghum midge Gram caterpillar Earhead Amsacta albistriga larvae and adults Sucking pest and ear head pest Shoot bug [Peregrinus maidis Ashmead (Delphacidae, hemiptera)]: Sorghum, millets, maize and other members of Poaceae are the important hosts. Infestation in kharif crop (summer) begins 30 days after germination. However, a heavy infestation is seen on the rabi crop (winter) at the seedling stage. Heavy infestation at the vegetative stage may twist the top leaves and prevent either the formation or emergence of panicles. It is also known to be a vector for transmitting stripe disease of maize. Aphids (Ragi aphid; Hysteroneura setariae, Rhopalosiphum maidis, and ragi root aphid; Tetraneura nigriabdominalis): Adults and Sorghum midge (Stenodiplosis sorghicola) and Pearl millet midge (Geromyia penniseti): Sorghum, pearl millet and wild graminaceous are the hosts. The maggot feeds on the developing grains and pupates there. Maggots destroy the ovaries seriously, affecting the development of seeds, leading to chaffy panicles.