 Farmers take maize in kharif and wheat in rabi Keywords: samkor method, field ploughing, maize, wheat Shri Shanti Lai, S/o Shri Roopji Brahmin, Jhadol (Rajasthan); and Shri Shanti Lai Parmar, Kantharia, Jhadol (Rajasthan) Content 4 Crops and Cropping System Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2778 Cultivation of indigenous paddy variety Dheka under lowland ecosystem 2779 Cultivation of indigenous paddy variety Boga Kolony in uplands Aadi tribes of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh cultivate local paddy variety named Dheka, which is planted in lowland where water availability is high. The plant height is about 2 feet and the colour of the grains is whitish red. Nursery is prepared and it is looked after up to 40 days. In fields, puddling is performed and 7-8 seedlings are transplanted in one hill. This variety is found to be more resistant to insect and pests and contains more amount of gluten, which is a prime requirement of local tribe. To avoid any insect incidence, they spread Pummelo (Citrus decumana) fruit bark in the field. During the milky stage, wood ash is sprayed to prevent the housefly attack, which is thought to suck the sap of grains. To meet the nutrient requirement of the crop, rice bran, plant leaves and organic residues from the forest are decomposed in the pit and then broadcast in the field. Keywords: Dheka, Pummelo, wood ash, manure Aadi tribals of Pasighat block in Arunachal Pradesh grow a local paddy variety Boga Kolony in the uplands as rainfed crop, where water availability is low. The plant height is 2.5 feet and the colour of grains is whitish yellow. This is sown mixed with pearlmillet and maize. The field is ploughed by using L-shaped blade. Dibbling method is used for sowing the seeds, Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2780 Use of coconut water and buttermilk mixture to increase the number of flowers in crop plants 2781 Cultivation of rice Bailu Nalla Budda Vaddlu (black variety) 2782 Cultivation of Bailu Erra Vadlu (red variety) rice but nowadays few people are using desi plough. After germination, farm women do the weeding. This variety is resistant to insects and pests. To avoid any occurrence of insect pests, farmers spread the pummelo fruit bark and hang dead crab on bamboo poles. During the milky stage, wood ash is sprayed to prevent the housefly attack.