 *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ram. verma3@icar.gov.in Input pages of the Ikshu Kedar app with date setting option Output pages of the Ikshu Kedar app Indian Farming 31 March 2023 Potential uses of buckwheat for human and livestock Supriya*, Magan Singh, Parkash Verma and Rakesh Kumar ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 The sustainable development goal of zero hunger requires the intensification of farming systems, but if any sort of long-term food security is to be realized, issues like the availability of nourishing foods would require increasing attention. Buckwheat controls weed growth because of its deep roots and quick leaf development. It is necessary to include more climate-resilient and nutrient- dense crops in agricultural and livestock portfolios. Due to its medicinal and nutritional qualities, buckwheat (Fagopyrum esculentum) has drawn significant interest from the scientific community worldwide. It serves as a helpful cover crop for preserving agricultural ecosystems. Buckwheat is a significant crop with nutraceutical benefits due to its gluten-free status, nutritionally balanced amino acid composition of its grain protein, and high quantities of antioxidants like rutin. Keywords: Break crop, Fagopyrin, Phosphorus-pump, Pseudo-cereal, Rutin, Smother crop B UCKWHEAT (Fagopyrum esculentum) is an annual pseudo- cereal melliferous crop of the family Polygonaceace. Buckwheat has shorter, bushier stalks than most other cereals. Typically, ordinary buckwheat (F. esculentum) and tartary buckwheat are the two varieties utilized worldwide (F. tataricum). While tartary buckwheat is grown in mountainous areas, common buckwheat is widely grown and consumed. Buckwheat can be produced as a secondary crop in many areas after the late summer harvest of major cereal crops like wheat or barley because of its quick vegetative growth till maturity. There is a shifting of the production of animal feed to other resources as the use of major arable crops for this purpose is increasingly constrained by environmental concerns. In this case, using buckwheat as a secondary crop could be a useful strategy for avoiding direct feed- food competition and feeding cattle and poultry. Additionally, growing buckwheat Indian Farming 73 (03): 31-33; March 2023 has certain positive ecological effects. It could also facilitate several effects that are crucial given the current ecological pressure on crop production systems, including (1) reducing feed-food competition for arable land; (2) increasing biological diversity in crop rotations and improving soil fertility; and (3) providing an essential late-summer and fall nutrient source for insects, preserving faunal biodiversity. Buckwheat’s high concentrations of Mg, Zn, K, P, Cu, and other nutritionally significant minerals, together with Selenium (Se), are further traits of a high-value animal feed.