3 kg/ha) than no irrigation (802.4 kg/ha). Mulching also positively influenced pod and haulm yields of groundnut. Pod yields with water hyacinth mulch (1,152.6 kg/ha) and rice straw mulch (1,152.3 kg/ha) recorded significantly superior yields to that of no mulch control (1,039.8 kg/ha). Similarly, the haulm yields recorded with water hyacinth mulch (2,379.3 kg/ha) and rice straw mulch (2,370.7 kg/ha) were significantly superior to that of no mulch control (2,267.5 kg/ha). Water Management of Cotton and Pigeonpea in Gujarat Water requirement and irrigation scheduling of pigeonpea and cotton in Bara tract of Gujarat was worked out both for rainfed and irrigated conditions using CROPWAT model. Yield reduction under irrigated and rainfed (20% less) conditions for both the crops were similar, indicating that even under unirrigated conditions in an average normal rainfall year, 80% of the potential yield of both the crops can be achieved. In pigeonpea, the full yield potential of the crop can be achieved with 258, 331 and 395 mm of supplemental irrigation, respectively for three dates of sowing, viz. June 15, June 30 and July 15, respectively. While in cotton, it can be achieved with 189, 270 and 360 mm supplemental irrigation, respectively. Tillage and Water Management in Wheat in Heavy Soils Experiment was conducted at Patna on wheat crop during rabi 2000 to study the effect of various tillage practices such as conventional tillage, zero tillage, and raised bed sowing under 3, 5, 7, 9 cm depth of irrigation. Maximum saving of water was observed in raised bed sowing treatments followed by zero tillage as compared to conventional tillage practices. It was observed that in zero tillage, rate of advancement of water was more and infiltration was less as compared to other tillage practices. Ground Water Contribution to Crop Water Use Saturated hydraulic conductivity was highest in Typic Paleustalf and lowest in Aeric Fluvaquent. For 0.09 and 1.50 cm depth of water table, the highest upward flux (18.7 mm/d) was observed in Typic Haplustalf and the lowest (5.5 mm/d) in Aeric Tropaquept. At 1.2 m depth the highest flux (10.7 mm/d) was observed in the FISH POND-CUM-SECONDARY RESERVOIR FOR MULTIPLE USES OF IRRIGATION WATER A fish pond-cum-secondary reservoir was constructed for economical and multiple uses of irrigation water in agricultural production system. Results revealed that dissolved oxygen level at 1.6 m below water level decreased continuously up to 6 days after water exchange before stabilizing indicating water to be exchanged after every 5 days for proper growth of fish. If the input cost of fish is minimized, fish pond cum secondary reservoir will be beneficial proposition for small farmers. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 75 same soil group (Typic Haplustalf) but the lowest (2.8 mm/d) was observed in Aeric Fluvaquept.