 Keep the floor of the animal shed dry using sand, woodchips, saw dust, straws, rice husk, etc. For better drainage of urine and other excretions. Wet floor may lead to diarrhea, fever, pneumonia, coccidiosis, hypothermia leading to death, etc. Young animals are at higher risk of developing disease due to wet floors. In Indian conditions, farmers usually lit fire in the animal house for heating the animal house but removal of gases from shed. Deworm the animals at regular intervals. If the animals have not yet been vaccinated against FMD, PPR, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia, Enterotoxemia, Black Quarter etc, ensure that this is done now. Most of the animals affected Hypothermia in this season. So proper rubbing and the animal should be warmed by giving energy by external as well as internal. Give the shock therapy such as warm fluids, calcium related fluid, liver tonic as supportive therapy for 3-5 days. Sheep and Goat Provide at least 1m2 floor space for each sheep and goat. The floor should be non-slippery and covered with hay, husk, straws, etc. for insulation. In severe weather, animals can crowd together for warmth, but this increases the likelihood of injury and respiratory diseases. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 135 Goats are the hardy animals possessing thick coat of hairs and require least to be look after. The addition of maize or oats in the ration can help increasing the energy content of feed. Generally, provide 200-250 gram of grains to sheep and goats for desired weight gain. Always provide a source of roughage in the form of grass or other types of hay. Berseem is a great course of protein and energy. Care should be taken to over feeding of fodder and straw to avoid fear of urinary calculi formation. Always provide a good salt and mineral source to avoid this condition. The breeding males should be given an extra concentrate feed (grains) during the mating period so that they may perform well. Do not shear wool or hairs during winters. Shearing or clipping of hairs is advisable before and after winters. The animals dwelling in muddy or wet conditions are susceptible to cracked and bruised feet and can suffer from foot rot and warts. Use of zinc sulphate and copper sulphate for foot dips. Sheep and goats should be dewormed multiple times a year to guard against stomach and round worms. Deworming should be done in November or December. Lice and mites are increasingly prevalent during the winter months. High infestations can cause anemia, poor coat and skin quality. Use of permethrins and pyrethrins is advisable as de-lousing agents. Ivermectin with recommendation from veterinarian can be used. New-borns must be dried quickly after birth as hypothermia can set in quickly. Lambs and kids are most susceptible to neonatal pneumonia so, providing dry and warm place.