 As a result, the oppressed community (in this case the women in the agrarian households) neither understands the statutory framework nor do they take appropriate steps through the existing formal institutions to safeguard their just rights. Manser and Brown [28] did the first systematic analysis of household decision-making as a bargaining problem. However, their postulation of different utility functions for husband and wife, and the resultant bargaining power during the dissolution of a marriage can hardly get empirical support in rural agrarian families of South Asia where marriages are considered as sacred bond and divorce and/or conjugal separations are culturally tabooed. Therefore, the pre­ sent study uses the theoretical argument of Lundberg and Pollak [25] where the assumption is that bargaining between spouses is undertaken with the threat of non-sharing and non-cooperation. Here a partner (spouse) can refuse to share the resources and/or assets (s)he is the owner of, yet stays in the (pure) social contract of marriage. Thus, any change of ownership of resources and/or assets in favour of women in the household may intuitively raise the ability of the women and empower them economically leading to other (social, political, and even physical) empowerment. There is also empirical literature to support such agreement [1,2,17]. However, information on overall farming and experience in overall agrarian activities influence the decision-making of women in agricultural activities [4,35,36,40,52,53] The mechanism of land ownership, agrarian decision-making, and the resultant empowerment of women are depicted in Fig. 1. Agrarian decision-making is defined as the process in which the individual makes decisions related to agricultural activities/practices, i.e., cultivation/ production, procurement, marketing, technology, and financial man­ agement. In this study, the approach to operationalize decision-making involves both sole and joint decision-making (including both women and men make decisions) [8,39]. Based on the above-discussed literature, the present paper hypothesises the empirical relation between agricultural decision- making (as a resultant outcome variable), land ownership, and other explanatory variables as follows: AgD = f(Lown, Z)… (1) Where, “AgD” is the gender-based decision on agricultural activities, “Lown” is the gender-based ownership of land, and “Z” is the vector of covariates that may affect the agricultural decision of an individual. This includes variables like; age [26], education [23], alternative occupation, income, and wealth [10,23,24], social structure [7], caste and religion [10,44], quality of life (measured through sanitation, [38]), and the exposure to the new technology in agriculture (measured by the variety of seeds used by the household). 3. Materials and Methods 3.1.