 The AI network of the state/ central Government were linked to the cooperatives and bull mother farms were established for production of exotic and crossbred bulls. 5.2.4. National Livestock Mission Commenced in 2014-15, this centrally sponsored scheme under the Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries (Ministry of Agriculture) has four sub-missions, out of which 3 are related to cattle. The mission is designed to cover all the activities required to ensure quantitative and qualitative improvement in livestock production systems and capacity building of all stakeholders. This Mission is formulated with the objective of sustainable development of livestock sector, focusing on improving availability of quality feed and fodder. NLM is implemented in all States including Sikkim. 5.2.5. National Programme for Bovine Breeding & Dairy Development (NPBBDD) The programme is being implemented since the 12th five-year plan of the country with aims to improve the bovine breeding and dairy services of the country. It is managed by the Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries. The programme provides funds to farmers through State Livestock Development Board, State Animal Husbandry Departments, State Milk Federations and other supporting NGOs and universities/colleges. This is a restructured 37 Scheme launched by merging four existing schemes i.e., Intensive Dairy Development Programme (IDDP), Strengthening Infrastructure for Quality & Clean Milk Production (SIQ&CMP), Assistant to Cooperatives and National Project for Cattle & Buffalo Breeding with the budget provision of Rs.1800 crores. The Scheme has two component namely (i) The National Programme for bovine breeding (NPBB) and (ii) The National Programme for Dairy Development (NPDD). National Programme for Bovine Breeding was initiated during 12th Plan period (2013 to 2017) with participation of 27 states. 5.2.6. National Dairy Plan Phase I (NDP I) This is also a centrally sponsored scheme (2011-12 to 2018-19), which aims to provide technical and implementation support to the states through credit-based system through DAHD&F. The NDP 1 is a scientifically planned multi-state initiative with the objectives to help increasing the productivity of milch animals and help to provide rural milk producers with greater access to the organized milk processing sector. NDP 1 focuses on 14 major milk producing states namely Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal which together account 90% of country’s milk production. 5.2.7. Rashtriya Gokul Mission Rashtriya Gokul Mission (RGM) with two components namely; National Programme for Bovine Breeding (NPBB) and National Mission on Bovine Productivity (NMBP) which are being implemented through “State Implementing Agencies” (SIA) viz. Livestock Development Boards/ State Goseva Aayogs.