5×108 CFU/g with a moisture content of about 12%. Its 1% concentration and about 2 litres of the spray solution is needed per tree. Up to 125 trees (about 1 ha) can be treated with 2.5 kg of the product. In certain situations such as after a heavy rain, just dusting of the product on the bunches is enough because of the wet microclimate within the crown. Field investigations have been conducted in more than 20 different places for evaluating performance of Mycohit. In several places, by the 70th day more than 70 and 90% mortality of the mite was observed in nuts sprayed once and twice (two weeks interval). IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 51 FRUIT CROPS M A N G O Germplasm collection was enriched by adding 15 new accessions and 21 seedlings at Vengurle, Periyakulam, Sangareddy, Paria and Mohanpur. Two superior clones of Alphonso and one of Banganpalli were selected at RFRS, Vengurle and FRS, Sangareddy, respectively. At CISH, Lucknow, a late-ripening mango hybrid (Amrapali × Vanraj) was found promising with attractive fruit colour and good quality having potential for export and internal market. Its fruits are 180-200 g in weight with dark yellow, firm flesh having TSS 23° Brix. The hybrid Sindhu produced ‘off’ season flowering and fruiting at FRS, Sangareddy. The exotic cv. Eldon continued to excel among all the varieties with medium-sized fruits (260 g), good TSS (18.3° Brix), attractive apricot colour peel and better shelf-life (12 days) at room temperature. Plants propagated by veneer grafting method gave maximum yield at Sabour, Sangareddy and Rewa, while air-layered plants were superior in yield at GBPUAT, Pantnagar. Double hedge row system of planting has given significantly higher yield than the control at most of the centres. At IIHR, Bangalore in Alphonso fruit yield/canopy volume was maximum with Vellaikulamban rootstock which can be used as a dwarfing rootstock for Alphonso for high-density planting. Application of paclobutrazol @ 3-5 ml/m canopy diameter, 90-120 days before bud-burst gave consistantly higher yield by regulation of shoot growth and flowering habit in mango. In mango orchards, use of vesicular-arbuscular mycorrhizae, Glomus fasciculatum, increases the availability of P, Zn, Cu, Mn and Fe in soils. One time fertilizer application @ 1,000 g each of N, P and K during July was found to be the best for mango. Widespread B deficiency was observed in Alphonso in Maharashtra and Karnataka which can be corrected by application of 150-200 g Borax/tree besides increasing the fruit set up to 20-25%. Biofertilizer Azospyrillum (300 g/tree) with 40 kg FYM has given good results in Deshehari. Exposing of Alphonso fruits to direct sunlight after harvesting, ripening at high humidity or temperature significantly increased the spongy tissue. However, ripening the fruits at 20°C reduced the spongy tissue formation. The anthracnose diseases was effectively controlled by pre-harvest spraying of Benomyl (0.