52 in association with Chrysopogon fulvus and Stylosanthes hemata on 8 year rotation. Studies on growth and biomass yield of three Albizia species (A. amara, A. lebbek and A. procera) with 4 pruning intensities (0, 25, 50 and 75% height from ground level) in natural grassland during 5th year showed that A. procera produced significantly more leaf fodder (1.34 tonnes/ ha) and fuel wood (2.9 tonnes/ha) as compared to A. amara and A. lebbeck. The studies showed that A. nilotica, L. leucocephala and Terminalia arjuna exhibited great potential in terms of nutritive value of pruned foliage. The leafy material contained (kg/DM) medium to high crude protein (93-228 g) and high degradable dry matter, organic matter and crude protein (749 - 881; 771-885; 672-920 g, respectively). Silvipastoral System and Sand Dune Stabilisation A Dichrostachys cinerea based silvipastoral model has been developed at Fatehpur- Shekhawati. The studies revealed that a biomass yield of 3.42 tonnes/ha/year may be obtained when D. cinerea was planted at 5 m row spacing and Cenchrus cilliaris grass between the rows with tree component coppiced every year (in November- December) and hold great promise for sand dune stabilization and is found to be most suitable for unculturable lands of arid and semi-arid regions. ❑ LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 87 ANIMAL GENETIC RESOURCES Livestock Information System Information System on Animal Genetic Resources of India (AGRI-IS) developed at the National Bureau of Animal Genetic Resources (NBAGR), Karnal, contains breed-wise information on habitat, characteristics, management practices, farms, references, photographs, habitat maps, etc. This was updated with the data on various breeds of cattle, buffaloes, sheep, goat and camel, and the next version will be released with updated information for all species. Database on livestock census contains age-wise and sex-wise population statistics for all the species and for all the districts of India from 1961 onwards. This databank has latest census figures (1997) for 13 states. Package developed for data entry and analysis of information collected from the field through survey was put up on the internet and can be downloaded free of cost from <http://nbagr.hry.nic.in>. An effort was made to develop a database of buffalo genetic resources at the CIRB, Hisar. Scanned images of different buffalo breeds were fixed in bit map graphic files and linked with buffalo database. Various queries were designed in scheme structure to establish the relationship among data tables. Herd data of various livestock farms in Gujarat, Rajasthan, Bihar, Goa, Punjab, Haryana, Andhra Pradesh, Maharashtra, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh were appended in the inventory of livestock farms. The State Governments of Uttar Pardesh, Karnataka, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Gujarat, Bihar and Punjab, nominated nodal officers for collaboration with the NBAGR.