 General improvement of market infrastructure, technology support to growers, integrated post-harvest management, development of collection and auction centers, infrastructure development etc. Development of a floriculture park in Assam is also recommended, which would showcase the technology and production aspects for commercial floriculture, for the entire region. B. It is recommended to set up collection centres with integrated post-harvest management facilities in Guwahati, Jorhat, Silchar and Tezpur. Provide good quality flower planting material at 50% subsidy and low cost poly house free of cost. C. Potential areas of export are flowers and cultivation of tuberose, marigold and gladiolus are being taken up for development of floriculture on a commercial basis. A commercial venture for the cultivation of hybrid orchids is running successfully in the State and all the cut flowers are being specially packed and sent to cities like Delhi, Kolkata and Bangalore etc.The aim is to increase in the commercial floriculture activities to at least 2000Ha from the present 650Ha. F. Animal husbandry A. Pig rearing: Improved pig breed/variety, proper health care, proper feeding B. Poultry: Quality chicks, proper feeding, proper health care C. Dairy cattle: Selected cows, proper feeding and proper health care D. Cultivation of fodder crops for cattle and pig. Especially, cultivation of HQPM is recommended for at least 1 lakh ha area during rabi and 0.5 lakh ha during kharif season. G. Promoting agriculture centric employment avenues A. Facilitating agri-service centers for custom-hiring of farm implements and micro-irrigation facilities together with maintenance and repairing facilities. B. Agri-service centres for seed, fertilizers, pesticides and farm operation packages in each district. C. Facilitating establishment of agri-clinics in each district. D. Facilitating establishment of fruit/vegetable processing facilities like pineapple, orange, tomato, potato, chilli, ginger etc E. Apiary (bee keeping) and processing units for honey 100 in each district. F. Facilitation agency for Agricultural Insurance Services G. Livestock health service centres including AI facilities in each district. H. Information technology kiosks in rural areas for access to various agriculture related State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 54 information (100 centrers). I. Setting up of metallic/non-metallic storage structure J. Vegetable/fruit mandis H. Processing plants A. Pack-house facilities in production sites: i. For Khasi mandarin: One unit each in Tinsukia, Nagajanka and Sonapur ii. For Banana: One unit each in Dudhnoi, Nalbari, Nagaon, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Dibrugarh and Silchar. iii. For pineapple: One unit each in Golaghat, Karbi-Anglong, Jorhat and Silchar. iv. For pineapple: One unit each in Golaghat, Karbi-Anglong, Jorhat and Silchar. v. For ginger and turmeric: One unit each in Tinsukia, Golaghat, Karbi-Anglong, Dima Hasao, Sivasagar. vi.