 Chinnasamy, Ayyanarpuram, Ammachiyapuram, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 531 3029 Control of fruit-borer in tomato 3030 Mushroom cultivation by using shisore tree wood 3031 Cultivation of singhada (water chestnut) When tomato comes to maturity stage, attack of fruit borer is common. To control this, hen and cocks are allowed in the field to feed the larvae, both in the evening and morning. Keywords: fruit-borer, tomato, hen, cock kadi tribe of Pasight (Arunachal Pradesh) cut branches of shirsare (Albizzia procera) tree and spread it in furrow for decomposition during rainy season. Some organic materials which contains more amount of twigs and leaves, are spread over these cut branches (1 month later). It takes 10- 15 days for the germination of local mushroom species, which are non- poisonous. Keywords: mushroom, shisar, non- poisonous Traditional cultivation of singhada prevailed in perennial rain water- harvested bodies in {talab, tank) in Udaipur, Dungarpur, Banswada, Chittorgarh, Bhilwada, Ajmer, Jaipur, Alwar, Bharatpur and Pali districts of Rajasthan. Singhada has economic, social, religious and ethnic food values. Traditionally Keer community Shri K.I. Pitchimuthu, S/o Shri Innachi, Meicalpalayam, Nilakottai, Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 215 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Nanu Ram, S/o Shri Chaguji Bhoie, Singhara wala, Padla Moru (Ghardia Bandh), Aantri, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 314 037, Shri Pema Ram Prajapati (Manda Neemali), Shubha Content HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator Small and green skin coated singhada species of Raipur, Pali, Rajasthan Small red skin coated singhada in all these districts is cultivating it by following technique of cultivation: 1. Traditional method of seed selection The growers reported that in Kartik month (November.) fresh crop arrives in vegetable market. Singhada growers select matured seed from the lot by putting green and fresh selected singhada in water-ful bucket. Floating seeds are being discarded and settled at bottom are kept as new seed for next crop. Locally there are three species found in the area. (a) Soonthia: This is a hard species, preferred for drying singhada, having green or red coating. This is being consumed after boiling. This species is found in Maharashtra, Gujarat and Udaipur region. (b) Green skin coated and of small size: This species is prevalent in Raipur area of Pali district of Rajasthan. It is more sweet in taste in comparison with other species. (c) Red skin-coated with medium size and moderate sweet in taste. It is being grown in Kekari of Bhilwara district of Rajasthan. (d) Singhada dull green skin coated is bigger in size in comparison with all other species. This is not so sweet in taste. It is ultivated in U.P.