 There are mainly two approaches for In-situ conservation (a) ecosystem approach (biosphere reserves) and (b) habitat approach (national parks, sacred groves, gene sanctuaries). In situ conservation is very difficult to monitor and to keep track since it involves continued habitat maintenance. Although the present article is on agro-biodiversity as a whole, the following examples and case studies are primarily on adopting Gandhian principles for plant genetic resources (PGR) conservation and management which are for illustrative purposes only and by far reflective of all such instances. 4.2. Case Study I: Rural Livelihood Security ICAR-NBPGR handled a Global Environment Facility (GEF) project entitled “Harmonizing biodiversity conservation and agricultural intensification through integration of plant, animal and fish genetic resources for livelihood security in fragile ecosystems” in three distinct agro- climatic zones represented by backward districts namely Chamba (Himachal Pradesh), Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Adilabad (Telangana) based on Gandhian principles and ideology (Care for the 69 community of life with understanding, compassion and love. Accept that with right to own, manage and use natural resources comes the duty to prevent environmental harm and to protect the right of people - Mahatma Gandhi). The agricultural development in the last several decades have increased yields, but have also significantly reduced the agrobiodiversity due to several forthcoming considerations. For the sustainability of agriculture in India, both components -agricultural reforms and bio-resource conservation should go hand-in-hand. The on-farm conservation through use has a exclusive benefit in the whole evolutionary process where the bio-resources are in use, and farmers themselves are the conservators, breeders and users. Therefore, a model on harmonizing agricultural reforms and biodiversity protection was developed through participation of farmers. The three districts chosen represent distinct agro-ecosystems with specific bioresource components comprising plants, animals, and fish with specific problems owing to their demographic pattern, production systems, fragmented and small land holdings; poor soil fertility, and rainfed farming, which are not remunerative. The socio-economic conditions of farm families are appalling, who have limited access to technological, financial, and proper market support. In order to enhance their livelihood security, it was envisaged to link the conservation and use of traditional crops, livestock breeds, and fishes with their economic development. Agricultural activities were re-oriented towards better use of local resources and evolving farming systems, which provided enough quantity and quality of food and economic security to the rural poor and encouraged them to conserve and enhance diversity in these traditional production systems.