 The number of programme leaders is to be decided at the Institute level in consultation with the Research Advisory Committee by adopting the following cri- teria: (i) For NRC, all the Scientists working in the NRC may be the member of the SRC. (ii) For the National Institutes the mem- bership from this category may be lim- ited to 50. Members 5. DDG concerned with the Institute in the case of IVRI, NDRI, IARI, CIFE and NAARM, and in the case of other Insti- tutes ADG concerned with the Institute Members **6. Deleted 7. Scientist-in-Charge of the Research Man- agement Unit at the Institute Member -Secretary (b) The membership of the Staff Research Council shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in accord- ance with the provisions of Rules 6 to 11. * Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 67th Annual General Meeting held on 9th March, 1996 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Edu- cation, vide letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 30.5.1996. ** Deleted by the ICAR Society at its 68th Annual General Meeting held on 15th March, 1997 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Education vide letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 25.5.1997. 28 (c) For the purpose of these Rules, the Institute shall also include the Project Directorate, Bu- reau, National Research Centre, or any other unit as may be approved by the President. Powers At Functions 711 The powers and functions of the Staff Research Council shall include:- (i) consideration and evaluation of the Research Projects (RPF 1). The Principal Investigator will make representation of the Research Project to the SRC. The SRC will reject/rec- ommend the Research Project along with its duration, (ii) consideration and evaluation of the on-going Projects (RPF II Annual Research Progress Re- ports), after these have been assessed by an expert. The SRC will make specific recom- mendations about the achievements and short-comings of the projects, (iii) Advise on the fostering of linkages between the groups/Divisions/Institutes in respect of multi-disciplinary Projects/multi-locational Projects, (iv) monitor the follow up action on the recom- mendations of QRTS with respect to technical programmes of the Institute, and (v) any other function as may be assigned to it by the Director of the Institute or the Direc- tor-General, ICAR. Notice of the meeting 71J All meetings of the Staff Research Council shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Member-Secretary. An omission to give notice or late receipt or non-receipt of notice by any member shall not invalidate the proceedings of the meeting. Quorum 7IK One third of the members of the Staff Research Council shall constitute the quorum for any meet- ing of the Staff Research Council.