 Conformity of Budget Heads with rules of classification: Budget Heads exhibited in estimates of receipts and expenditure framed by the Government or in any appropriation order shall conform to the prescribed rules of classification. Responsibility of Departmental Officer: Every Officer responsible for the collection of Government dues or expenditure of Government money shall see that proper accounts of the receipts and expenditure, as the case may be, are maintained in such form as may have been prescribed for the financial transactions of Government with which he is concerned and tender accurately and promptly all such accounts and returns relating to them as may be required by Government, Controlling Officer or Accounts Officer, as the case may be. Classifications should be recorded in all the bills and challans by Drawing Officer: Suitable classification shall be recorded by Drawing Officers on all bills drawn by them. Similarly, classification on challans crediting Government money into the Bank shall be indicated or recorded by Departmental Officers responsible for the collection of Government dues etc. In cases of doubt regarding the Heads under which a transaction should be accounted, the matter shall be referred to the Principal Accounts Officer of the Ministry/Department concerned for clarification from the Ministry of Finance and the Controller General of Accounts, wherever necessary. Charged or Voted Expenditure: The expenditure covered under Article 112(3) of the Constitution of India is charged on the Consolidated Fund of India and is not subject to vote by the legislature. All other expenditure met out of the Consolidated Fund of India is treated as Voted expenditure. Charged or Voted Expenditure shall be shown separately in the accounts as well as in the Budget documents. Capital or Revenue Expenditure: Significant expenditure incurred with the object of acquiring tangible assets or a permanent nature (for use in the organization and not for sale in the ordinary course of business) or enhancing the utility of existing assets, shall broadly be defined as Capital expenditure. Subsequent charges on maintenance, repair, upkeep and working expenses, which are required to maintain the assets in a running order as also all other expenses incurred for the day-to-day running of the organization, including establishments and administrative expenses shall be 37 classified as Revenue expenditure. Capital and Revenue expenditure shall be shown separately in the Accounts. Public Financial Management System (PFMS) (1) Public Financial Management System (PFMS), an integrated Financial Management System of Controller General of Accounts, Government of India, shall be used for sanction preparation, bill processing, payment, receipt management, Direct Benefit Transfer, fund flow management and financial reporting.