 NAARM will primarily focus on Foundation Course for newly recruited faculty, Management Development Programmes for mid-career faculty in Education Planning and Management, Executive Development Programmes for Senior faculty, Workshops and brainstorming sessions on education policy, planning and management while CFEs will facilitate faculty members to get need based training to excel as teachers, researchers, scholars, mentors, managers and leaders, besides offering a wide array of programs, resources and services for faculty. The VCs would nominate one of the Deans/Directors to lead the CFE as Nodal Officer (Faculty Excellence) and other staff. Further, the committee has recommended introducing a non-credit core course for PG students in teaching-learning effectiveness and educational technology to motivate students towards a teaching career. A provision of 100.00 lakhs for each AU in the XII Plan over the Plan period, which includes 50.00 lakhs towards infrastructure development for CFE and 10.00 lakhs per annum towards operational costs for deputing faculty for training (including international training over five plan years) has been suggested. It was also suggested to send a copy of the same to VCs of all AUs. [Action: ADG (HRD), NAARM, VCs] Agenda 6.2: Institutional strategy for development of high quality faculty based on expected competencies ADG (HRD) mentioned that ICAR is providing catalytic support to meet the shortages in Skilled Human Resources in emerging areas like bioinformatics, functional genomics, disease diagnostics, quality seed production, climate change adaptations, nanotechnology, conservation agriculture, e-learning opportunities, educational technology etc. through summer/winter schools/short courses, CAFT trainings and NAARM programmes. The Council is aware of the need to progressively increase the rate of generation of high quality skilled human resources at all levels. New mechanisms would be developed in XII Plan to ensure that need based training is available to the widest possible section of the faculty. In order to exploit the existing intake capacity of various available training modules for optimum results, it is necessary that AUs should make an in-depth assessment of the training needs of the faculty in advance and depute/relieve them timely to join the on-going programmes. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 6.3: Presentation of the Report of Essential Qualifications and Degree Nomenclature Review Committee ADG (HRD) informed that the committee constituted vide Office Order No.1 (11)/2009-Exam Cell (Part) dated 14th December, 2010 to review the Essential Qualification and Nomenclature of various degree programmes in vogue in Agricultural Universities (AUs) has finalized the report. Prof. R.B. Lal, Vice-chancellor, SHIATS, Allahabad, was the Convener of the committee.