 The fruits fresh or dried are valued for their laxative properties. It is diuretic, demulcent, emollient and nutritive. Figs are considered useful in the preservation of nutritional anaemia. Fig leaves are used as podder, for which purpose they are gathered after the fruits have ripened. Fig: A small or moderate-sized deciduous tree, 15-30 ft high, with broad ovate or nearly orbicular leaves, more or less deeply 3-5 lobed, rough above and pubescent below; fruits axillary, usually pear-shaped, variable in size and colour. The fig plant is considered to be a native of Carica in Asia Minor and is grown in nearly all tropical and sub tropical countries. In India, its commercial production is limited to a few centres near Pune (Maharashtra), Bellary (Karnataka) and Anantapur districts (Andhra Pradesh). In Punjab, U.P. and Karnataka, it is mostly grown scattered in gardens or in homey ards. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 825 Treatment of cow for expulsion of placenta Volume 2, page 381 Bamboo and paddy Bamboo: Refer to ITK Code No. 359 Paddy: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Branch Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications : 854 : Treatment for eating of placenta in cattle : Volume 2, page 381 : Sembal : Bengali: pagan, roktosimul, simul; Gujarati: sawar, shimalo; Hindi: kaantisenbal, pagun, rakatsenbal, semul; Kannada: booruga, kempubooruga, mullelava, Mullubooruga; Malayalam: mullilabpoola, mullilavau; Marathi: kantasavar, saur, simalo; Oriya: bouroh; Sanskrit: kantakadruma, raktapushpa, salmali; Tamil: illavam, mullilavau, pulai; Telugu: boorugachettu, kondabooruga- chettu, mundlaboorugachettu. : Silk-cotton tree : Bombax ceiba Linn. : Seeds are used as fodder, and the silky floss, obtained from inner wall of fruit, is used for stuffing pillows and mattresses. Gum or dried juice from trunk is used as an adhesive. Wood is used for a variety of purposes, the chief are plywood, packing-case manufacture, matches and mechanical pulp for newsprint; also commonly used as board-making for various purposes such as ceiling-boards, picture frames and for use in plywood tea-chests. : A lofty, deciduous tree buttressed at the base, up to 40 m or more in girth, with a clear bole of 24-30 m, widely distributed throughout India, including the Andamans, up to 1,500 m or even higher.