3 dS/m and ESP 52.8) due to use of alkali water (RSC 9.1 me/1) with rice-wheat and sorghum-mustard sequences the superiority of gypsum addition by its dissolution after passing alkali water through specially designed beds (7-15 cm thickness) in terms of improving crop yields when compared with similar applications directly to the soil. In a similar study conducted at Bikaner, gypsum @ 50% GR proved beneficial in obtaining the optimal yield of pearl millet and mustard. ● In rice based farming system, recycling of rice straw along with mushroom spent substrate in rice showed increase in grain and straw yield in western coast of Goa ● Guava based system developed at Jabalpur revealed that Curcuma domestica grown under the shade of 12 year old guava tree performed better with an average yield of 7.32 tonnes/ha ● An integrated watershed management plan was prepared for implementation in Bada Khera watershed in Bundi, Rajasthan DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 80 RED PALM WEEVIL MANAGEMENT IN GOA Using food baited pheromone traps, revealed a high incidence of RPW(Red Palm Weevil), Rhynchophorus ferrugineus Oliv. throughout Goa. On an average 26.03 weevils were captured per trap during the period. RPW was most active in Goa during September- November while it was least active during May to June. It was observed that for mass trapping programmes the recommended 1 trap/ha can be reduced effectively to 1 trap/3 ha trap density. ECONOMICS OF COCONUT BASED FARMING SYSTEMS Application of 100 per cent inorganics alone has resulted in relatively higher plant height, tillers/clump, number of leaves/ plant, leaf length and width, inter-nodal length and forage grass yield (29.62 tonnes/ha) and was followed by treatment of 50 per cent organics+ 50 per cent inorganics (29.18 tonnes/ha) while the minimum growth and yield parameters were recorded in plots receiving 100 per cent organics alone (28.23 tonnes/ha) in NB-21 hybrid napier grass under palm (coconut) based cropping/farming system in Goa. The hybrid napier PBN-16 and DHN-3 consistently showed better performance in terms of green forage yield, dry forage yield and tillers per clump. The grass intercropping in coconut with dairy unit has added additional net returns to the tune of Rs 7000/cow/year with additional employment potential of 70 man days/cow/ year. mushroom spend substrate (1 tonnes/ha) in rice, continued to show an increased trend in both grain (4.59 tonnes/ha) and the straw yield (5.36 tonnes/ha) in western coast of Goa. Among the rice based cropping systems, rice-cowpea (variety V-118) yield (7.77 tonnes/ha of rice grain equivalent) was consistently higher as compared to rice-brinjal system (8.56 tonnes/ha) under protective irrigated conditions. However, the soil organic carbon build-up was better with the recycling of FYM to rice @ 10 tonnes/ha and rotation with groundnut. Further, the integration with mushroom production @ 1,000 bags/ha added additional component productivity to the tune of 4.