 Leaf samples should be collected from North, South, East and West directions from healthy shoots at the workable height of approximate 6-7 feet from the ground level. Diagnosis of deficiency symptoms Nitrogen: Nitrogen is a mobile nutrient in plant system; thus, it is translocated easily from older leaves to younger January–February 2021 15 Deficiency symptoms of Nitrogen in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Phosphorus in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Potassium on litchi Deficiency symptoms of Iron in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Boron in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Manganese in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Zinc in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Calcium in litchi Deficiency symptoms of Magnesium in litchi Indian Horticulture 16 leaves under low soil nitrogen content. The deficiency of N nutrient causes yellowing of older lower leaf and mostly entire plant foliage shows light green colour appearance. Under severe deficiency conditions, a pale-yellow chlorosis starts from the tip of older leaf and gradually whole leaf portion becomes pale brown in colour. The N deficiency also leads to poor branching, reduces fruit yield by increasing the proportion of undersized fruits and defoliation throughout the year. In litchi, N deficiency generally retards the leaflet size, new growth, emergence of panicles and root growth. The deficiency of nitrogen generally appears in the soils with lower organic carbon content, light textured soils, intensive cropping system and water logged conditions. Phosphorus: The deficiency of phosphorus causes stunted vegetative growth, smaller leaflet size and lower fruit production. Older leaves develop a characteristics dark to light green colouration that tends to change towards the reddish-brown or purple tinge. Interveinal leaf necrosis and leaf dropping are also visualized. As the deficiency becomes severe, brown necrosis starts to appear on leaf tip and proceeds further to midrib, leaves curl and premature leaf drop. The P deficiency generally appears in the regions with low soil organic carbon content, soils exhausted by intensive or inter cropping, acidic soils and soils where topmost soil has been removed. Potassium: The deficiency of K content causes reduction of internodal length, and generally losses its healthy and dark green leaf growth. The K being a mobile nutrient in plant system, the actively growing younger leaves translocate K from older leaves, while younger leaves generally remain green. The deficiency symptoms include the appearance of pale-yellow chlorosis on the tips of old leaves and finally cause necrosis of leaf margins. The deficiency of K is also responsible for the poor fruit set, fruit size, pericarp colour and pulp/stone ratio. The deficiency of K nutrient generally appears in the soils with light texture, lower in organic content and soils higher in Na, Mg, Ca concentrations, soils irrigated with high bicarbonate content and soil with pH < 6.0.