 *A conventional STP comprises of the preliminary coarse screens along with grit chamber, oil trap, sedimentation tanks, aeration tanks, clarifiers, sludge drying beds, activated carbon filters and UV disinfection units as the primary treatment components. 14 Capital/ Operational Expenditure In terms of standard cost-accounting, the implemented solution has been found to be associated with about R0.545 Crore per MLD of capital expenditure (CAPEX), excluding cost of land, as per 2011-12 cost estimates. About 80 to 90% of total capital expenditure is associated with civil works and media, 8-15% for electrical works and 2-5% for the purchase and incorporation of the appropriate vegetation. The operational and maintenance expenditure (OPEX) for the implemented solution, on the other hand, have been evaluated to be about R0.607 per Kilo litre (KL), with approximately R0.25 per KL required to meet energy expenses for pumping and incorporation of wastewater into the treatment cells/ beds and R0.35 per KL for hiring unskilled manpower. Hence, comparison of the implemented solution with a comparable conventional wastewater treatment technology has shown that the JalopcharTM technology is associated with zero energy demand, zero-chemical application, zero- sludge generation, no skilled manpower requirement, and 50 to 65% reduced treatment cost. Revenue Generation Potential Depending upon the quality of wastewater to be treated*, the vegetation planted in treatment cells of the JalopcharTM technology based fully operational wastewater treatment facility can be harvested and integrated with several revenue generating business models such as Particle Board manufacturing, Energy Briquette/ Pellet manufacturing, Handicrafts (viz. Rope, hat, mat etc. making), etc. For e.g., the 2.2 MLD wastewater treatment facility at IARI could be harvested (once every 3 to 4 months) to yield about 30 tons of dry biomass per annum. The harvested biomass could be transformed into the (termite and water proof) particle boards (16000sq. ft. per annum @ R12/ sq. ft.) or into energy-pellets (24,000 kg @ R8/Kg) or be sold to the local particle board manufacturing units (@ R2000 per ton as dry biomass). Hence the developed technology solution could even be integrated with remunerative Cash from Trash business models capable of fetching an annual income of about R1.92 lakh from the decentralized low-cost wastewater treatment facility developed at Indian Agricultural Research Institute. Expenditure and Revenue Generation Chapter 5 *For avoiding environmental and health hazards, harvested biomass from industrial wastewater treatment cells should not be used for any energy pellets or handicrafts but rather for manufacturing particle boards or allied products for reducing pollutant recycling through its immobilization in the chemicals / resins normally used for manufacturing such products.