 HIGHLIGHTS OF UPCOMING ISSUE (February 2025) • Cotton as a sustainable game changer in rice-wheat system of Indo-Gangetic plains • Transforming mustard cultivation in Rajasthan: Field-level experiences of cluster FLDs • Continuous management of rice residue for reducing fertilizer use in rice-wheat system • Managing heat stress in dairy animals • A comprehensive guide to sustainable year-round Napier bajra hybrid cultivation • Growing a "warm season" watermelon crop in "cold desert" Ladakh • Rise of agroforestry related land use systems • Circularity in Indian agriculture: A pathway to sustainability R AINFED agriculture in India covers approximately 63 million hectares (mha) of the net sown area and plays an important role in contributing to food production. Rainfed agroecosystem faces different challenges like droughts, extreme events, land degradation, low productivity, shrinking land holdings and several socio-economic constraints. In spite of all these challenges, rainfed agriculture would continue to be a major food production domain. The focus should be on enhancing water productivity, maintaining soil quality, crop diversification and developing integrated farming systems as per the resource availability to achieve sustainability, climate resilience and enhanced livelihoods. National Agriculture Research and Extension (NARES) in the country, particularly ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) has developed agroecology-specific technologies. However, the efforts should continue to develop and disseminate adaptation strategies that enhance climate resilient rainfed agriculture. There is a need for a strategic mix of better technology adoption, institutional innovations, building value chains to enhance the productivity and profitability of rainfed food systems. It is also necessary to harness the benefits of next-gen technologies like artificial intelligence, machine learning and drones for research and digital extension in rainfed agriculture. Indian Society of Dryland Agriculture (ISDA), has been providing a platform for researchers, policy makers, line department officials, farmers, students and industry for research, extension, policy advocacy and development in rainfed agriculture. This Special issue of Indian Farming is brought out on the occasion of International Conference on Rainfed Agriculture: Building Pathways for Resilience and Sustainable Livelihoods organized by ISDA and CRIDA during 29-31 January, 2025. We hope the information would be of immense help to all the stakeholders in rainfed agriculture. I profusely thank the authors, editors and Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA), ICAR for their valuable contribution in bringing out this special issue. MESSAGE (Vinod Kumar Singh) Director, ICAR-CRIDA R ainfed agriculture in India extends in a wide array of agroecologies and socio-economic settings.