 Š Š Vaccination programs for those zoonotic diseases for which vaccines are available, should be strictly implemented so that disease at primary hosts level is well controlled. Š Š To set up virus diagnostic labs in the cities so that disease diagnosis time is reduced. AS 2 i Name of the Applicant National Academy of Veterinary Science(I), Rajendranagar, Izatnagar ii Title National seminar on sustainable Livestock Development for Food and Nutritional Security iii Venue and Date(s) 22 October 2016 at Khalsa Veterinary College, Amritsar, Punjab iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(22)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Regular interaction between veterinary scientists, academicians and livestock owners on vital issues of livestock development and capacity building programmes is required Š Š Steps need to be taken to improve surveillance and control of livestock diseases especially transboundary and zoonotic diseases. 53 AS 3 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society for Veterinary Surgery, Dept. of Veterinary Surgery & Radiology, Hisar ii Title National Symposium on Biomaterials and stem cells for tissue repair and regeneration in Veterinary Surgery iii Venue and Date(s) 4 December, 2016 at Madras Veterinary College, Tamil Nadu Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Chennai, Tamil Nadu iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(27)/2016-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Modern veterinary practice demands provision of improved surgical techniques to animals which reduce turnaround time and get the animals back to peak production levels. Š Š Clinical trials need to be strengthened in translation of research findings in the field of stem cells and biomaterials as it provides a promising strategy for engineering tissues and cellular delivery. AS 4 i Name of the Applicant Indian Society of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology (ISVPT), Dept. Of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Vety. Science and Animal Husbandry, AAU, Anand ii Title XVI Annual Conference of Indian Society of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology and National Symposium on Animal Health and production: Challenges and Opportunities for Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology iii Venue and Date(s) 23-25 November, 2016 at Dept. Of Veterinary Pharmacology and Toxicology, College of Vety. Science and Animal Husbandry, AAU, Anand iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(28)/2016-Cdn(Tech) ANIMAL SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 54 vi Recommendations: Š Š Research on identification of biomarkers need to be promoted that will provide opportunity for the innovative drug discovery and diagnostics. Š Š Pharmacokinetic studies in target species should be conducted to measure drug concentration at specific sites. Š Š Pilot studies on application of Nutraceuticals in specific disease condition to be undertaken.