 It consisted of rice Pusa Basamati 1 green manure and potash at 40 kg/ha, scouting and monitoring of pests and their natural enemies, seed treatment with Carbendazim at 2 g/kg of seed, release of Trichogramma japonicum, spray of Carbendazim against sheath blight, streptocycline against bacterial leaf blight, and of Monocrotophos against Gundhi Bug in 4, 2 and 1 hectares. The pesticide application could be brought down to 1 in this village, when the farmers of non-IPM Badka village, District Baghpat, had to use 5-6 applications. CLIMEX FOR PEST RISK ANALYSIS OF PERONOSPORA MANSHURICA The CLIMEX model for forecasting favourableness of Indian environment for development and establishment of Peronospora manshurica, the causal agent of soybean downy mildew suggests Himachal Pradesh (kharif) and Karnataka (rabi) favourable for the growth and survival of the pathogen. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 46 August and September has been developed against arecanut whitegrub Leucopholis spp. Ecofriendly technology of whitegrub (Holotrichia consanguinea) management through beetle control using pheromone, developed by Network Unit of the All- India Network Project on Whitegrubs and Other Soil Arthropods, was successfully demonstrated in Chak Bhairu Karol, Govindpura and Ram Nagaria villages near Jaipur. Spraying only one-third of the total host-trees (one tree within a radius of 15 m) in one hectare with Monocrotophos at 0.05% and loading with pheromone resulted more than 75% killing of beetles. Efficacy of Fungal Formulations in Field Metarrhizium anisopliae and Beauveria bassiana conidial dust formulation of each when integrated with half of the recommended dose of Chlorpyriphos (1 lit. a.i./ha) have provided better results against many whitegrub species, specially Holotrichia seticollis and Holotrichia coriaceae damaging potato crop at Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) and Holotrichia longipennis on upland paddy at Ranichauri (Uttaranchal). H. seticollis and H sikkimensis attacking ginger at Gangtok (Sikkim) was also effectively controlled by M. anisopliae. The performance of M. anisopliae isolate Ma-4 in particular was found outstanding against H. consanguinea under laboratory and pot experiment conditions at the Agricultural Research Station, Durgapura. HONEY-BEE MANAGEMENT Various types of hives/mating nuclei (tripartitioned langstroth hive, tertra-partitioned langstroth hive, three-frame transportation hive, three-frame baby nuclei of 14.5 cm × 14.5 cm × 12.0 cm size and ten-frame langstroth hive) have resulted in 100% queen emergence and 100% mating success, excepting baby nucleus in which it was 50% during April 2001, but it was 33.3, 0.0, 75.0, 75.0 and 100% in tri- partitioned langstroth hive, tetrapartitioned langstroth hive, transportation hive, baby nucleus and 10 frame langstroth hive in May; egg-laying success was 100% in April and 66.7% in transportation hive and 100% in all other hives in May 2001.