 These are caught and dried in the sun. Subsequently they are powdered and the powder is stored in a clean bottle. When calves suffer from intestinal worms they are given about one teaspoon of this powder dissolved in 200 ml of milk. This helps to get rid the animal of intestinal worms (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (1997a) 263 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 480 Deworming in animals by garlic Twenty gram garlic (Allium sativum) is pounded well and mixed with 200 ml vinegar and administered orally on a full moon day or one day before it. For another 4 hrs no feed or water is given. The practice of giving during waxing phase of moon is advised because of multiplication of worms in the gut of the animal is very fast during that time, therefore the treatment would give best control and kill maximum worms on the full moon day (Susindram, Kanyakumari, Tamil Nadu). Jerom (2000) 481 Deworming of calves A solution is prepared from 100g of fresh papaya seeds which are crushed, mixed in 1 litre water act as anti- helmentic and is known to be cost effective deworming medium for calves (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 482 Treatment of inflammation near hoof joints Cattle suffering from inflammation are usually not able to move around because of the pain. Wood apple (Feronia elephantum) is burnt in coal fire and the inner portion of the fruit is tied over the inflamed area with a piece of cloth. After a few days, the inflammation subsides (Bangalore, Karnataka). Gowda (1999) 483 Treatment of fire burns A suspension made of linseed and lime water is pasted upon the burnt wound. Animals gets cured in 8-10 days if applied continuously (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 484 Control of gala ghotu (HS) Ten-twelve leaves of davana (Artimisia vulgaris) are tinturated after adding 10 cloves and this mixture is pasted around the swelled parts of neck. This paste is changed after 2-3 hrs by fresh one (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 485 Control of gala ghotu (HS) Ten cloves are boiled in 250 ml of ghee(preferably cows ghee) and left for sometime. The warm ghee is given to affected animal twice or thrice a day with the help of dharaki (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 486 Control of gala ghotu (HS) A mixture of well grinded 100 g of black pepper and 250 ml mustard oil is given once a day for 2 successive days. HS is cured if applied at the initial stage (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 264 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 487 Treatment of yoke gall in bullocks A mixture of black powder from dry-cell battery and oil is applied to galls on the neck that are used by the yoke. In other cases, Buharo (Byttneria herbacea) leaves are chewed into a paste by the farmer and then applied. The treatment is repeated twice per day for two to three days or until the gall is heated (Mahesana, Gujarat).