 Š Š Maize should be avoided for kharif as main and intercrop as it attracts fall armyworm and other feeding insect which may move to other crops and may become polyphagus. Š Š Other millets should also be sown prior to one month before monsoon. The cow urine formulations should be sprayed time to time well before the occurrence of insects and diseases. Š Š Seed treat compulsorily be done where organic farming is practiced with different biofertilizers and biopesticides. Vegetables Š Š Important tomato varieties are Arka Rakshak, Pant Tomato-3, Himsona, Naveen 2000, Naveen 2000+, Abhinav, Samrat, Rakshita Gold and transplanting of tomato sapling time is April to June (Hills) and June-July (Plains). Š Š Recommended varieties of brinjal are Shaymali, Pant Samrat, Pant Rituraj, Pusa purple long, Pusa Anmol, Pusa Kranti, Pusa Anupam, Chaya, Pusa Sankar Brinjal-1, Pusa Hybrid 5, 6 and 9, . Transplanting of brinjal seedling time is April to June (Hills) and June-July (Plains). Š Š Capsicum varieties recommended for Uttarakhad are California wonder, Arka Gaurav, Arka Mohini, Arka Vasant, Indra, Swarna, Ashwarya, Asha, Indum Bharat. Transplanting of brinjal seedling time is April to June (Hills) and June-July (Plains). ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 27 Š Š Cucumber varieties pointset strait, japanease long green, pant kheera 1 and pusa uday are recommended in Uttarakhand plains and hilly area to sowing during march-April and June- July. Š Š Treatment of seeds and seedlings with recommended fungicides before sowing and transplanting in the main field. Š Š In hilly areas and high mountain ranges outbreak of powdery mildew in vegetable crops (like Pea and Beans) is expected which reaches its maximum intensity at the time of pod formation. As a prevention measure, 0.2% of sulfax or sulfur or 0.05% solution of Dinocap is recommended. Spray 5% solution of neem kernel extrat to prevent infestation and crop damage due to cabbage butterfly (Pieris brassicae). Š Š For management of vegetable nursery (of tomato, capsicum and brinjal) against root rot and damping off disease, spray and thoroughly saturate the soil with 75 WS Thiaram or 50 WP Captan @ 2 gm per liter to prevent in nursery vegetables. Š Š To control the early and late blight disease in tomato, planting should be done at 45 cm plant to plant and 90cm line to line distance. Š Š Spray of pyraclostrobin+metiram 2.0 g/litre at the stage of first symptoms appear on plant could be effective for early & late blight of tomato. Š Š To prevent the infestation of fruit borer in tomato/brinjal spray of NPV, 250 LE/ha or Bacillus Thurangisis 0.75 kg/ha & it could be repeated at 15 days intervals as per incidence. Advisory for Animal Husbandry, Dairy &Fisheries Himachal Pradesh Š Š Grazing of small ruminants should be limited. Therefore, arrangements for stall feeding along with supply of complete feed blocks and mineral mixture should be ensured.