 However, halophytes, tolerant to higher salt concentrations can be very well cultivate on saline-sodic soils. Field studied carried out at Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Bhuj, Gujarat, stated that some of the palatable halophytes having good nutritional qualities can be cultivate as fodder crop even in the salinity level of 80 EC of the soil. However, before these halophytes are included in the regular diet of the animal, some more studies, especially on anti-nutritional factors need to be studied so that suitable management strategies can be formulated for feeding the animal. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: naoremanand@gmail.com Physical chemistry of soil and soil mineralogy are the two pillars which form the basic foundation of soil science. Once the students become familiar with these basic concepts, they can easily understand the other properties of the soil, say physical and biological properties, pedology and soil fertility. To become an expert of soil fertility, comprehensive knowledge of all the soil properties is essential which in turn is supported by the knowledge of physical chemistry of soils and soil mineralogy. The present Textbook on ‘Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils’ has been written very cogently by the author who has been a teacher with an experience of nearly four decades of teaching in a premier Institute that is ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute. The book includes all the topics prescribed by ICAR for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. The introductory chapter describes basic definitions of soil science. Chapters like ‘Bonding in solid structures’, ‘Elements of crystallography’, ‘Chemical thermodynamics’ and ‘Electrochemistry of soils and clays’ are basic in nature and have been dealt very lucidly for easy understanding of students. Two chapters on characterisation of soil minerals are practical oriented. Other chapters focus on the structures of soil minerals, weathering and formation of minerals in soil environment, adsorption and ion exchange on soil colloids, double layer theory of soil colloids–its evolution and application, chemisorption and precipitation reactions in soil, soil organic colloids and their properties and chemistry of submerged soil. This book will be very much useful for the Postgraduate students of Soil Science. Textbook on Physical Chemistry and Mineralogy of Soils TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 348 • Price : ` 650 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-228-1 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.