 Kharif maize yield (kg ha−1) frontier showing optimal land allocation to different tillage and cropping system combination with specific targeted return (Primary x-axis), standard deviation of return (Secondary x-axis), ordered by risk aversion profile. Note: The scenarios are hypothetical for all possible combinations of risk averse and risk neutral decision makers. Going along x-axis (from left to right) lists different combinations of cropping systems with higher return as well as higher risk. Extreme left (less risk), extreme right (more re­ turn). CT: Conventional tillage, ZT: Zero tillage, PB: Bed planting, MWMb: Maize-wheat-mungbean system, MMuMb: Maize-mustard-mungbean, MCS: Maize-chickpea-Sesbania, MMS: Maize-maize-Sesbania system. Fig. 4. Kharif maize profit (INR ha−1) frontier showing optimal land allocation to different tillage and cropping system combination with specific targeted return (Primary x-axis), standard deviation of return (Secondary x-axis), or­ dered by risk aversion profile. Note: The scenarios are hypothetical for all possible combinations of risk averse and risk neutral decision makers. Going along x-axis (from left to right) lists different combinations of cropping systems with higher return as well as higher risk. Extreme left (less risk), extreme right (more return). CT: Conventional tillage, ZT: Zero tillage, PB: Bed planting, MWMb: Maize-wheat-mungbean system, MMuMb: Maize-mustard-mungbean, MCS: Maize-chickpea-Sesbania, MMS: Maize-maize-Sesbania system. H.S. Nayak et al. European Journal of Agronomy 162 (2025) 127436 6 tillage practices, the risk-return tradeoffs we have identified could aid in determining incentives necessary to encourage farmers to adopt riskier yet environmentally friendly cropping systems, as evident in studies by Castro et al. (2013), (2015). The results derived from this type of anal­ ysis can inform decisions beyond the long-term experiment trial loca­ tions with similar biophysical conditions and cropping system performance in terms of intertemporal variability. Whereas in a newer region where weather and other biophysical risk affects the cropping system performance differentially, the proposed methods can be used to find newer risk proof cropping system combinations. 4.2. Limitations and future research The mean-variance analysis suffers from a notable limitation as it solely focuses on two moments of the distribution (mean and variance), potentially overlooking the significance of other moments. Conducting a comprehensive whole-distribution analysis, especially using stochastic dominance, could provide deeper insights, particularly if connected to farmers’ risk aversion levels. This notion is underscored in the study by Hurley et al. (2018), which examined how weather risks might influence the assessment of agricultural technologies’ benefits.