 Mohapatra, initiated during October, 2016, aims at enriching farmers–scientist interface, technology assemblage, application and feedback, partnership and institutional building and content mobilization. The farmers FIRST project has a network of 93 ICAR institutes, 20 State Agricultural Universities, Central Agricultural University and eight Krishi Vigyan Kendra with the process and methodological support, database creation and regular assessment and impact evaluation. 4.4. Institutionalizing Think Tank For Independent Policy Advocacy 4.4.1. National Academy of Agricultural Sciences The National Academy of Agricultural Sciences (NAAS), established in 1990, is the brainchild of late Dr. B.P. Pal, noted Indian agricultural scientist. The Academy proved as a think tank and provided evidence-based scientific inputs for policy options for agriculture. The Academy inducts 34 Fellowships every year amongst Indians and 2 Foreign Fellows. The young talent (<40 years), are recognized as Associates of the Academy. NAAS has Indian Agriculture after Independence 418 contributed Policy/Strategy Papers on topical issues and emerging challenges in Indian Agriculture. The Academy had developed a scorecard for rating the SAUs. 4.5. Strengthening Agricultural Higher Education 4.5.1. Central Universities/Deemed University While States established SAUs since 1960 onwards, the CAUs were established with a national character, agenda and mission. The first CAU established in Imphal in 1992 with a strategic vision of providing support those NE States devoid of SAUs and their integration with National System. Later two more CAUs at Bundelkhand Region of UP and Samastipur, Bihar were established. ICAR has 4 deemed universities (DUs) i.e., IARI, NDRI, IVRI and CIFE catering to multi-disciplinary research, education and extension for par excellence. The DUs are also established signifying the status of autonomy granted by the Department of Higher Education on the advice of the UGC, under Section 3 of UGC Act, 1956. The ICAR system comprises of Deemed to be universities (04), Central Agricultural Universities (03), State Agricultural Universities (74) and Central Universities with Agriculture Faculty (04). 4.5.2. Education Quality-Accreditation The National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board in its new form, is responsible for accreditation higher agricultural education institutions for ensuring quality in the era of ever-increasing agricultural universities and colleges in the country. Overall mission is to transform agriculture education with high quality and stay relevant to meet the current requirements and emerging challenges. Very important milestone in ensuring the quality of agricultural education was the creation of the Accreditation Board in 1996 by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with a mandate of accrediting higher education institutions and programs in different branches of agriculture and allied sciences.