 Agricultural Technology Information Centre Forty-seven Agricultural Technology Information Centers (ATICs) in the country served as single window delivery systems by providing technology information, technology services and technology inputs to the farmers. In all, 4.67 lakh farmers visited the ATICs for the technological solutions during the reported year. Technological information was provided to about 4.59 lakh farmers, both through print and electronic media. Farmers (3.66 lakh) got quality technological inputs namely 39,648 q seeds, 16.08 lakh planting material, 11,052 livestock, 0.72 lakh poultry birds and 951.31q bio-products. Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana The Government of India has initiated Pradhan Mantri Fasal Beema Yojana (PMFBY) across the country for ensuring risk safeguarding from the damages caused to farmers owing to natural vagaries. Under this scheme, farmers need to pay a very low premium for insuring their crops which will be 2% for kharif crops, 1.5% for rabi crops and 5% for commercial and horticultural crops. The remaining amount of the premium will be borne by the Government of India. Shri Radha Mohan Singh, Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, inaugurated Farmers Backyard poultry as a group activity for tribal farmers in Maharashtra The tribal farmers in Satpuda hill ranges of Nandurbar, Maharashtra, are primarily agrarian but depend on livestock and poultry too as secondary source of income. The productivity of local breeds of poultry is low (0.60-0.75 kg/bird) and farmers were unaware of improved poultry management practices too. To sustain the activity of backyard poultry in the tribal belt, group approach was encouraged by KVK, Nandurbar through skill-based vocational training of rural youth. They were provided skills on building poultry sheds by utilizing local material like bamboo, kadbi, local grass and wood; homemade feed preparation from locally available grains like maize, jowar, bajra, rice bran, dal chunni, area specific mineral mixture etc., scientific poultry rearing practices and group marketing. The three tier system comprising brooding at KVK, rearing at farmers’ level and group marketing by farmers ensured sustainability of the backyard enterprise in the district and enhanced livelihood security to the tribals. At present, 247 tribal families are maintaining backyard poultry in Nandurbar district and getting benefited from this innovative group approach. polyhouse, by adopting all improved packages for rose cultivation, he is harvesting fresh rose @650 kg/day regularly for 240-250 days a year. His net income is ` 5.93 lakh with a B:C ratio of 5.94 through rose cultivation in poly-house from 1,000 sq.m. area as compared to ` 64,650/ha from field crop cultivation under open condition. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 128 Precision farming of vegetables and cotton visits, exhibitions, interactions etc.