 The plant protein is used in protein supplements, texturized vegetable proteins, imitation dairy products, sea food products, beverage industry, infant food formulations, weaning food formulations, bakery products, meat analogues for various purposes. Production and Processing of Microalgal Biomass for Biodiesel and Other Industrially Important Co-products-An Algal Refinery Approach: Growth modelling studies of selected triacylglycerols (TAG)-producing microalgae under unialgal and mixed culture modes were carried out at IIT Kharagpur and IARI, New Delhi. Among different microalgal species Chlorella minutissima was a good lipid accumulator. Anabaena variabilis is rich in carbohydrate content, whereas Oscillatoria formosa, Calothrix sp. and Spirulina subsalsa are rich in protein + carbohydrate contents. While, Aulosira fertilissima, Calothrix sp., and Oscillatoria formosa are poor lipid accumulators. In the hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) study, the maximum bio-crude yield (36%) of C. minutissima was obtained at 300°C under 200 bar pressure at 60 min retention time without catalyst use. A protocol was standardized for maximum extraction of microalgal protein from C. minutissima biomass that can be substituted in the diets of freshwater fishes as a protein supplement. Experiments were conducted to study hydrothermal processing of microalgal biomass for direct conversion to liquid fuel Soy protein isolated through novel method Groundnut protein isolated through novel method Hydro thermal processing of micro algal biomass. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 56 and to explore the algal refinery approach for improving the economics The Cyanobacterium Leptolyngbya sp BTA 477 was also explored successfully for biodiesel production. Along with SCC (Sodium Copper Chlorophyllin), protocol was standardized for maximum extraction of micro algal protein from algal biomass that can be substituted in the diets of freshwater fishes as a protein supplement. Standard feed, whole micro algal biomass and extracted micro algal protein diet in the ratio of 25:25:50 was found to be the best diet for maximum growth of the freshwater fish varieties, rohu, mrigal and catla. Crude glycerol (purified up to 92%) was obtained as a by- product of transesterification process. Thermal degradation of crop residues for kinetics, bio-polymeric transitions and value-added products: The presence of all three bio-polymers: cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin, was remarkably noticed in torrefied biomaterials. During slow pyrolysis, hemi cellulosic and cellulosic bio-polymers almost vanished and lignin bio-polymer dominated the processed bio-product. At high temperature after pyrolysis, only lignin was noticed. Torrefaction and slow pyrolysis increased the total carbon (48 % to 80 %; at 200 to 450 °C).