2 litre per hour and dripper placed at 30 cm apart as per following schedule: Fertigate with first 1/10th of N and P2O5 with first irrigation just after planting and thereafter, remaining 9 doses of N and P2O5 should be fertigated in 9 equal splits at 9 days interval starting one month after planting. This will result in about 25% higher oil yield along with saving of 36% irrigation water and 20% nutrients over check basin. Use urea (46%) and mono ammonium phosphate (12-61-0 grade) for supplying N and P2O5 respectively. Weed control: In the early stages of growth, a wheel-hoe may be used. Harvesting and yield: The crop should preferably be harvested at the flower initiation stage. If the lower leaves of the plants turn yellow and start shedding, harvesting may be done earlier. Harvest the crop, leaving 6-8 cm long stumps to secure better sprouting. Two cuttings can be taken, first in June and the second in September. The yield of the crop is 100-125 quintals per acre of fresh herbs which contains 0.5 to 0.75% oil. Processing and marketing After harvesting, allow the crop to wilt overnight in the field and subject it to simple distillation. Some private distillation units provide facilities for farmers to extract oil. The farmers are advised to plant mentha only in that area where the distillation units are available. Plant protection Insect pests 1. Termite (Odentoterms obseus): Termites attack the underground parts of the plants and damage the roots and the stems of mentha. 2. Cutworm (Agrotis spp.): Cutworms cut the young plants at the ground-level. They remain hidden near the base of the plants during day-time. 3. Jassid and Whitefly: The attack of these sucking pests adversely affects the plant growth and oil content. 4. Hairy caterpillars: Hairy caterpillars, if appearing in an epidemic form, cause serious damage by feeding on the leaves and the tender stems. When young, they feed gregariously. The grown up caterpillars may migrate from one field to another. Farmers are advised to adopt the following control measures: yy Use light-traps for the destruction of moths. yy Young larvae are gregarious. They can be destroyed by plucking the infested leaves or by pulling out the infested plants and burying them underground. The grown up caterpillars can be destroyed by crushing them under feet. Diseases Root rot and Stem rot (Rhizoctonia bataticola): The infected portion shows brown lesions which turn dark and later increase in size. The leaves wither and die. Infected plants should be uprooted and destroyed. Planting stock should not be from an infected field. Mentha farming should be avoided year after year in the same field. Conclusion India has now attained the distinction of being the largest exporter of menthol mint and its oil.