 It was also found that adoption rates were substantially higher for machine guidance technologies than for VRT in all countries. Rates of adoption were higher for larger farms compared to smaller farms. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ADG.ICT@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 35 June 2023 Multiple dimensions of agroecology in sustaining agriculture A K Srivastava* and Popy Bora ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Gogamukh, Assam 787 035 Sustaining agriculture has become a more daunting challenge amidst multiple nutrient deficiencies triggered by depleting carbon stock of soil coupled with glaring impact of global warming on crop performance. Despite paradigm shift from purely inorganic to either organic or the combination of two, agroecological applications have always occupied a center stage in sustainable agriculture. Development of microbial consortium (microbial concoction), rhizosphere hybridization, identification of microbial corridor and microbial hot spot in a field, besides storing carbon in plant vegetative framework, are some of the upcoming ways to realize the multiple dimensions of agroecology in sustaining the agriculture in years to come with emphasis on on-farm research. These efforts have to be further matched with other natural resource conserving options like conservation agriculture, organic farming and natural farming. Keywords: Agroecology, Microbial diversity, Natural farming, Sustainable agriculture A GROECOLOGY works best when natural resources are utilized with on-farm ambit as a driver of sustainability in agriculture, where very often natural farming is linked to give birth to another form of agriculture, conceived as regenerative agriculture having much stronger resilience against climate change-related issues. Agroecological farming like any other sustainable agriculture, integrates five major issues, viz. soil health care, soil biodiversity, crop biodiversity, production stability and environmental health and water quality. Of these, soil health is the central core of sustainable agriculture. Of late, sustainability of agriculture is hugely challenged by global warming triggering unwarranted climate change, the impact of which becomes more discernible, considering strong synergism between CO2 and nutrients under no water limiting conditions. Several studies revealed that under central Indian conditions recommended dose of fertilizers (RDF) once worked, stands out to be ineffective over a period of 20-years time on account of rise in average temperature by just less than 10C during flower opening time (such examples can likewise be cited for any other crop), which later necessitated 25% additional K to moderate such temperature stress. How does RDF behave in the long run in different crops when agroecology is integrated with emphasis on microbial turnover of the nutrients to regulate soil fertility functions.