 When bait was kept in moist condition it attracted more number of wasps than dried pieces of fish. Pollination Research The activity of Apis mellifera foragers was more in large cages than in smaller ones in fertile and CMS lines of cauliflower for hybrid seed production. Seed set was higher in fertile lines (21.24 to 41.39%) than in CMS lines (2.77 to 11.55%). Seeds per pod of fertile line in large cages were more than those in small sized cages, however, no such correlation was noticed in CMS lines. Bees of Apis mellifera and Apis cerana can be used for pollination for sunflower hybrid seed production, as an alternative for hand pollination. In sweet-orange, percentage increase in fruit-set over self pollination was 24.1, 21.7 and 15.7 in Apis mellifera and Apis cerana and open pollination. Fruit drop was lowest in Apis cerana (16.0%) and Apis mellifera (17.5%) compared to 29.6% and 27.8% in self and open pollinations. The decrease in fruit drop over open pollination was 4.30 and 5.86% in Apis mellifera and Apis cerana pollination. The highest yield (75 kg fruit/tree) in litchi was obtained from bee-pollinated crop, followed by open pollination (68 kg/tree). AGRICULTURAL ORNITHOLOGY BBR and NIVAR are non-lethal botanical pesticides. During kharif, BBR at 10 ml/litre of water concentration resulted in higher yield compared to NIVAR at 15ml Butea monosperma during flowering attracts many depredatory birds, and reduces crop damage by them DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 48 and control in the experimental fields. These botanicals acted as potential repellents in reducing bird damage. BBR and reflective ribbon plot in kharif (sorghum) showed higher yield (675 kg/ha) than in rabi (510.25 kg/ha). Similarly wrapping and ribbon in maize during rabi showed higher yield (790 kg/ha) in the treated plot compared to control (710 kg/ha). Studies on the effect of pesticidal spray on the migratory bird foraging on wetland cropping systems in Andhra Pradesh have revealed that the insecticides spraying affected the migratory and resident birds such as Brahminy ducks, Pintails, Lesser whistling teal, Comb duck, Spot-billed duck which forage on sprouted paddy seeds in nurseries. Similarly, at Thrissur pesticide poisoning was recorded on pond heron in the rice ecosystem. Residue analysis revealed that presence of low concentration of organochlorides resulted in cumulative affect on these birds. Around maize, sorghum screen (fodder variety, GS3) was most effective against rose-ringed parakeet, followed by maize screen at Gujarat. Mulberry trees attracted more insectivorous birds specially Rosy pastors as dominant species (75%). Butea monosperma on farm-bunds attracts many depredatory birds and reduces incidence of crop damage during vulnerable stages. In Jamnagar, ruffs (Philomachus pugnax) and black tailed godwit (Limosa lapponica) have been reported for the first time damaging wheat during sowing and sprouting stage.