50 g/kg fruit) which was higher than is dilute HCl method (7.84 g/kg fruit). CONCLUSION Lemon juice was found to be superior to other methods in maintaining quality of tomato seeds which is desired by the farmers.  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code : 403 Title of the ITK : Off-season flowering in guava Description of the ITK : On the basis of expectation, the farmers bend down the branches of guava about 45 to 60 days before flowering in 3 to 8 years old plants. The branches are bent towards outer periphery to open the centre and allow penetration of sunlight. After 25 to 30 days, new shoots emerge from the bent portion, which bears profuse flowers. This practice results in 39% increase in flowering in early summer and 28% increase in late autumn. Off-season flowering fetches Rs 590 to Rs 600 per plant, instead of Rs 150 to Rs 180 per plant in the normal season. Name and address of the discloser : Dr Dipankar Saha, Training Organiser, Ramakrishna Ashram KVK, Nimpith Ashram, South 24_Parganas, (West Bengal) 743 338 Location of use of the ITK : Twenty-six villages in 4 blocks: block Baripur-I and Baripur II Joynagar- I and Jaynagar-II, South 24 Parganas (West Bengal) Experimenters : Dr Bikas Ghosh, Reader, Department of Orchard Management, Faculty of Horticulture, and Dr Premasis Sukul, Reader, Department of Agriculture Bio-Chemistry, Faculty of Agriculture, Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Mohanpur, Nadia (West Bengal) 741 252 METHODOLOGY Location Evaluation of effectiveness of autumn bending of guava branches for profuse flowering was done by Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) and field study and experiment was conducted at Baruipur, South 24 Parganas (West Bengal). PRA and field study The PRA tools were used and field study was done to determine the efficacy of autumn bending as compared to summer bending and without bending practices. It was done on 12 farmers of village Baruipur. The study had the following parameters to observe: production of new shoots, flower in the new shoots, number of fruits/plant, size of the fruit, improvement in quality of fruit (sweetness), production of off-season flowering, market price of fruits, (sweetness), production of off-season flowering, market price of fruits, harmful effect on longevity of plant, if any, and cost effectiveness. Experiment Experiments were conducted in seven different guava orchards belonging to farmers of Baruipur. The experimental design was Complete Randomized Design (CRD) and the treatments were: (i) summer bending (April_June), (ii) autumn bending (September_November), (iii) complete removal of leaves from the shoot and decapitation, and (iv) control (without any treatment). The number of plants per treatment and per season was three.