 Significantly higher fingermillet yield was attained at Bangalore with a combination of fertilizer and organics. However, recommended dose of fertilizer was superior for rice at Ranchi. Common Pool Resources in Semi-arid India Surveyed A survey was conducted at Hyderabad, to understand the dynamics, management and livelihood contributions of common pool resources (CPRs) in semi-arid India. The survey covered the area from Punjab in the northwest to the southern Tamil Nadu and encompasses over 206 districts. The results revealed that the extent and productivity of CPRs is declining since independence. In the case of village lands, decline is large due to breakdown of traditional management systems which resulted in a shift from common property to open-access regimes, and to some extent privatization and encroachment denying access to the poor. These CPRs are now subject to a series of problems of erosion and land degradation resulting in irreversible damage to the semi-arid ecosystem. Vast parts of the potentially productive CPRs are rendered unproductive or under productive. Low-tillage and Integrated Nutrient Management Strategies The highest sorghum grain yield both under conventional and reduced tillage was recorded with 2 tonnes Gliricidia loppings + 20 kg N. Application of 4 tonnes FYM + 2 tonnes Gliricidia loppings was the next best treatment. The 4-year study concluded that by following low-cost nutrient management strategy, the expenditure on fertilizers could be reduced significantly without concurrent yield loss. However, greengram, 2 tonnes FYM + 10 kg N and 2 tonnes FYM + 1 tonne Gliricidia loppings outyielded the control both under conventional and reduced tillage systems, respectively. Rainwater Management Conservation furrows across the slope at 3 m interval, as a measure of moisture conservation and runoff management, were evaluated in 10 farmers’ fields in 5 villages in the Nalgonda district of Andhra Pradesh. Castor was intercropped with pigeonpea in 5 : 1 ratio. During the growing season, the study area received 429 mm rainfall in 33 rainy days (rainfall 2.5 mm/day). The plots with conservation furrows stored 8–35% additional soil moisture over the control throughout the l Application of 50% N (inorganic source) + 50% N (organic source) was found to be at par with recommended dose of fertilizer for rabi sorghum, pearmillet, groundnut, cotton and greengram. l Construction of conservation furrows in the fields resulted in higher yield of castor and pigeonpea crops by 16– 17% over the control. l Integrated pest management strategy for castor semilooper was worked out. The efficacy of castor semilooper parasitoid baculovirus alone, or in combination with insecticides was demonstrated in large-scale on-farm trials. l Prototype-3 of groundnut stripper, power tiller-drawn seed-cum-fertilizer drill-planter and air-assisted tractor- drawn orchard sprayer were developed for dryland crops.