 The technique involves wounding/incision on branches with diameter of 5 mm at 30 cm above ground level using sharp knife/blade to remove the bark followed by application of 2,500 ppm IBA as rooting hormone. The treatment starts from the second week of June till the last week of August. Small polybags (filled with rooting medium) are fastened at the points where rooting needs to be initiated. A lightweight substrate (cocopeat) having high moisture holding capacity is used as rooting medium. Staking is accomplished with the help of bamboo poles to hold the bags in a proper position and to keep the plants straight. This technology is very useful in promoting the vertical expansion of the nursery in greenhouse conditions and the multiplication of number of plants per unit area has increased by three to four times with minimum utilization of extra inputs and area. One more additional benefit of this technology is that under the greenhouse conditions, the rootstocks attain sufficient girth (> 6 mm) and all the plants are suitable for budding. The technology not only produced the additional 3-4 rootstocks but also the budded plants which have added advantage to this technology. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 May–June 2024 43 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at https://epubs.icar.org.in/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Already have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions. Author Guidelines Title of the article: Catchy, short and attractive; Compel the readers to read the article; Time-oriented; Serve the purpose of audience – means it should be audience-oriented, and News-oriented. Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader. Text of article: Remaining text should be in a descending order of importance; Emphasize on your own findings; Follow proper heading scheme; Use key words in headings; Follow central heading, side heading, subheading, inset heading etc. General guidelines: Follow guidelines strictly. In popular articles, number of authors should not be more than 3.