 Seeds of Gynocardia odorata contain toxic glycoside gynocardin, and it possesss pesticidal properties. 22. Leaves of Lyonia avalifolia possess insecticidal properties and it contains andromedotoxin. 23. Oil and seeds derivative of Madhuca indica possess toxity due to toxic saponins. 24. Leaves, fruit and bark of Persian lilac (Melia azedirach) have insecticidal properties and it contains toxicity terpenoids 25. Leaves, seed, bark and root of karanj (Pongamia pinnata) possess pesticidal properties due to the presence furanoflavanoid derivatives 26. Leaves of vilayati babul (Prosopis julifora) have toxic properties 27. Bark of Paranus javanica contains toxic principles used against stored rice pests. 28. Wood of Indian kino tree (Pterocarpus marsupium) possesses pesticidal properties, as it contains toxic ptyersotillbene. 29. Fruits and roots of common emetic nut (Randia spinosa) contain toxic saponins and is used against stored seed pests. 30. Leaves and seeds of Salvadora persica possess insecticidal properties. 31. Seeds of soapnut tree (Sapindus mukorossi) possesss insecticidal properties, in which toxic saponins are present.  32. Leaves of nuxvomica (Strychnos nuxvomica) is applied to maggot infested ulcers, as it contains bioactive alkaloids. 33. Leaves and seeds of castor (Ricinus communis) possess pesticidal properties 34. Seed-extract of mahagoni tree (Swietenia mahagoni) possess insecticidal properties which contains a bitter ubstance, mahagonin. 35. Seeds of sal (Shorea robusta) contain pesticidal properties. 36. Seeds of lac tree (Schleichera trijuga) oil contain pesticidal properties. 37. Seeds of Terminnalia paniculata and T. bellerica possess pesticidal properties. 38. Wood contains saponins possessing termiticidal properties (Ternstroemia gymnanthera) 39. Seeds of Indian copal tree (Veteria indica) have pestical properties. 40. Leaves of vasaka (Adhatoda vasica), which are used against white ants and red spider of tea, have toxic alkaloid vasicine. 41. Fresh and young shoots of spiny or thorny bamboo (Bambusa arundinacea) possess insecticidal properties, containing benzoic acid and acyanogenic acid. 42. Whole plant of Butea parviflora posseses insecticidal properties, as it contains rotenone. 43. Latex of aak (Calotropis procera) plant has insecticidal properties and contains toxic catrdiac glycosides. 44. Roots of christ's thorn (Carissa carandas) possess insecticidal properties, as it contains alkaloid. 45. Leaves of christmas bush (Chromolaena odorata) possess pestcidal properties, as it contains essential oil. 46. Seeds of wild senna (Cassia tora) possess insecticidal properties against Dysdercus koenigii, which contains chrysophanic 9-abthrone. 47. Seeds of black oil plant (Celastrus paniculatus) posseses  insecticidal properties and is used as mosquito repellent. It contains terpenoids and alkaloids. 48. Leaves of bharangi chingari lanjal (Clerodendron siphonanthus) contain toxic properties. 49.