 Fig. 2. Growth of state agricultural universities Presently, Uttar Pradesh has 9 AUs and states of Karnataka, Maharashtra and Rajasthan have 6 AU’s each; Gujarat has 5 AUs; West Bengal and Haryana have 4 AUs; Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Kerala. Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Telangana each have 3 AUs; Chhattisgarh, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Punjab, & Uttarakhand have 2 AUs each, and Assam, Jharkhand, Manipur, Nagaland, Odisha, & Delhi have only one AU each (Fig. 3). The number of constituent colleges increased with the increase in the number of AUs. While there were only 170 constituent colleges in 1996 the number increased to 227 in 200. Further, between 2006 and 2017, 152 new constituent colleges were established making the number to 379 constituent colleges. The concomitant increase in the number Indian Agriculture after Independence 318 of constituent colleges enabled access to higher agricultural education to a large number of students and the enrollment increased by over 16% in higher agricultural education within five years. During 2012-2017, maximum increase was in agricultural colleges (42), followed by 11 new colleges in the discipline of horticulture and forestry. The number of home science and agricultural engineering colleges has not increased to the similar extent. The number of food science & technology colleges remained relatively less despite tremendous scope for food processing and value addition. The AUs established during 1960-70 had strong departments/colleges for basic sciences, however, most of the universities established later paid little attention to this discipline. Basic science discipline also needs special attention with the growth of agricultural education. 4. Reorganization of ICAR and establishment of Division of Agricultural Education Though ICAR aimed to undertake, aid, promote and coordinate agricultural education in the country, however, it had a very limited role before 1966, as it had neither financial resources nor statutory authority to discharge this responsibility. In 1966, ICAR was reorganized and a full-fledged Division of Agricultural Education was established to coordinate and support the development of AUs (Randhawa 1986). The various fellowship schemes for staff development and student welfare were initiated. ICAR developed first Model Act in 1966 to provide legal base for establishment, functioning and uniformity of agricultural universities across AUs (Makwana 2013). The quality assurance of higher agricultural education was given the major thrust through policy support, accreditation, academic regulation, personnel policies, review of course curricula and delivery systems, development support for strengthening and creating infrastructure, improvement of faculty competence and admissions through All India competitions.