 Candidate admitted under the programme is provided monthly fellowship, the air ticket and visa through the Indian Mission in the respective African Country. All foreign students are provided accommodation in the host-university campus. A total of 281 students have so far benefitted through this program since 2010. Presently, 63 students from the African Union are pursuing their studies in 17 different agricultural universities of India. Mekong-Ganga Cooperation Mekong Ganga Cooperation (MGC) is an initiative by six countries – India, Cambodia, Lao PDR, Myanmar, Thailand and Vietnam for cooperation in tourism, culture, education, transport and communication. It was launched in the year 2000 in Vientiane, Lao PDR. Both Ganga and Mekong are civilization rivers, so the MCG initiative was to foster close contacts among people inhabiting these two major river basins. The grouping was also indicative of cultural and commercial linkages between India and Mekong Countries. The suggestion to set up this grouping was made by the then Thai Foreign Minister to EAM during his visit to India in July 2000. The then Minister of External Affairs, Government of India Shri Jaswant Singh welcomed the idea and suggested the names of the two rivers to be the title of the Cooperation initiative. A project on ‘Identification and conservation of rice germplasm for nutritional and quality traits and enhancing profitability of rice production through mechanization and downstream processing’ is now accepted by India, Vietnam and Lao PDR, and is under consideration. 21 Nepal Cooperation India-Nepal cooperation is historic and has been growing strong day-by-day, which is evident by the Work Plan for 2014-20 under Joint Agricultural Working Group that includes: Study visits/Trainings, Opening of National Agricultural Universities, Academic courses, Collaborative research; operation, maintenance and certification of sophisticated equipment, natural resource management, agri-business and capacity building through fellowships under Nepal-Aid Fund Scheme. Under this scheme, scholarships are being offered for Nepalese candidates for duration of four years to pursue B.Sc (Agriculture) and for duration of two years to pursue M.Sc (Agriculture) in Indian Universities and Institutions. So far, five in 2015-16 and ten in 2016-17 students completed their graduate/ post-graduate courses from India. Ten students during 2017-18 and eight students during 2018-19 from Nepal have been admitted in M.Sc courses in Indian agricultural Universities. Furthering cooperation with Nepal, India has proposed to provide technical assistance in establishing a Deemed University for Agricultural Education on the patterns of the Indian Agricultural Research Institute, which is under active consideration by the Ministry of External Affairs, Govt. of India.