 Systematic cultivation of cocoa was started in Kamrup, Udalguri, Nalbari, Baksa and Goalpara districts with the intervention of ICAR-CPCRI, RC, Kahikuchi. Agro-climatic suitability Soil: Cocoa can be grown in wide variety of soils. Elain Apshara1, S, Singh, L S2, Anok Uchoi2, Alpana Das3 and V B Patel4 November–December 2023 85 Since cocoa is an agro forestry crop originated from Amazon river basin, virgin, freshly cleared forest soils are suitable, which are rich in organic matter. Well- drained, acidic to neutral pH, depth of up to 1.5 m is necessary for cocoa. The soils of Assam are divided into four main groups, viz. alluvial, piedmont, hill and lateritic soils. The alluvial soils are extensively distributed over the Brahmaputra and Barak plain with some patches in Kokrajhar, Barpeta, Nalbari, Kamrup, Darrang, Sonitpur, Lakhimpur and Dhemaji districts The piedmont soils are confined to the northern narrow zone along the Himalayan foothills, which is deep and fine to clay loamy in texture. The hill soils are generally found in the southern hilly terrains along the border with Arunachal Pradesh and Nagaland. This soil is fine to clay loamy in texture. These soils are rich in organic matter and nitrogen. The lateritic soil in the state occurs almost entirely over the North Cachar Hills district. These soils are dark and fine textured with heavy loams. The well drained, deep, acidic alluvial soils of upper Assam with good proportion of phosphoric content are mostly suitable for plantation crops. Overall, the soils of Assam are suitable for cocoa cultivation. Climate: Rainfall, temperature and humidity influence the cocoa flowering and fruiting. The optimum range of temperature is 15-32˚C. The absolute minimum temperature for any reasonable period should be greater than 10˚C, below which frost injury takes place. Assam is situated on the Northeastern corner of India between 89° 42′ E to 96° E longitude and 24° 8′ N to 28° 2′ N latitude. The region has moderate climate throughout the year, with warm summers and mild winters with average rainfall of more than 1500 mm per year. There are four distinct seasons, Summer, Monsoon, Autumn and Winter. In the plains of Assam, the average maximum temperature does not go beyond 320C and in winter the plains of Assam have a minimum temperature of about 80C. Its elevation ranges from 50-75 m above mean sea level in plains and 600-1350 m in hill areas. There is a slight variation of climate from region to region within the state. For instance, the climate of the region covering Kamrup, Nalbari and Barpeta district in west- central Assam is characterized by plentiful rains and foggy winter. In western Assam comprising the districts of Goalpara, Bongaigaon, Kokrajhar and Dhubri, the climate is intermediate between that of the North Bengal Plains and the West-Central Assam Valley.