 179 Litsea sebifera - H- Maida Lakri B-Garur M-Maida Lakri G- Maida Lakri Tel-Narra alagi T-Uralli O-Jaisanda Bark is used in diarrhoea and dysentery. Ground and paste material is used in emollient application for sprain, bruises and rheumatisms. Leaves are mucilagenous and considered emollient and anti-spasmodic. The root is sweetish, bitter, astringent, tonic. An evergreen shrub or tree up to 25 m in high, found through out India, ascending up to an altitude of 1350 m in the outer Himalayas. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 359 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 180 Luffa acutangula Ridge gourd H- Kalitori B-Thing M-Shirola G-Ghisoda Tel-Birakaya T-Pirkamkai Kan-Hirukayi Mal-Pichengu Leaves of the plant are used as poultice in haemorrhoids, leprosy and splenitis. The juice of fresh leaves is reported to be useful in granular conjuctivities in children. Ripe seeds are bitter, they are reputed to possess emetic and purgative properties. Large climber with palmately 5–7 angled or lobbed leaves found wild in North-West India, Bihar, Bengal, Sikkim and Assam. 181 Luffa amara - H- Karvitori B-Titotari M-Ranturai G-kadvighisodhi Tel-Adavibira T-Peypirkan Kan-Kaduhire Mal-Athanga All parts of the plant are very bitter. The plant possesses laxative and purgative properties and is reported to be useful in skin diseases and asthama. It is used as a diuretic and given in splenic enlargements. The dried fruit is powdered and used as snuff in jaundice. Seeds are considered emetic, expectorant and demulscent. Leaves are applied externally to sores in cattle. Fairly large climber found in western, central and southern India and regarded as wild form of cultivated species. 182 Mangifera indica Mango H- Am B- Am M-Amba G-Amrli Tel-Mamidi T-Manga Kan-Mavu Mal-Cutem Ripe fruit is considered invigorating, refreshing and fattening. The juice along with aromatics is recommended as a restorative tonic. It contains Vitamin A and C and is useful in heat apoplexy. The ash of burnt leaves is a house-hold remedy for burns and scalds. Dried mango flowers are astringent. They are given for diarrhoea, dysentery, cattarah of the bladder and gleet. The bark is astringent which contains mangeferin. It is used in dyptheria and rheumatism. The kernel powder is used as a astringent in bleeding piles and also used as anthelmintics. Large evergreen tree, 10–45 m high with dome-shaped crown and straight , stout bole It has been cultivated in India for at least 4000 years. Mango occurs wild or semi-wild nearly through out India, in tropical and sub-tropical hilly forests. It is common in sub- tropical Himalayas, hills of western or eastern parts and the forest. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 360 Sl. No.