 Further, role of two candidate genes; BONZAI and PEX1 involved in H2O2 and other ROS (Reactive Oxygen Species) homeostasis during fibre development was confirmed and re-validated in G. arboreum. Development of phosphate solubilizing bio- fertilizers for fodder crops: Identified and characterized 20 PSM (phosphate solubilizing microbes) Evaluation of PSB in fodder oats Evaluation of PSB in fodder cowpea for salt, acid and drought tolerance capabilities. Seed priming with carrier-based inoculants of PSM produced fodder cowpea and oat yield with only 50% P fertilizer which was at par with 100% P as per RDF in normal poor soil, acid soil and salt affected soil. Two efficient strains (Burkholderia cepacia and Talaromyces pinophilous) genomes were sequenced to understand stress tolerance and phosphate solubilizing mechanism. These inoculants were also tested in > 50 farmers’ fields of Jhansi, Niwari and Datia districts of Bundelkhand region and got similar results. This can be a major breakthrough in integrated nutrient management and would be cost effective and safer for soil environment. Integrated nutrient management in bajra × Napier hybrid-based system: Application of 50% nutrients through chemical fertilizers (38 kg N, 55 kg P2O5 and 30 kg K2O/ha), 25% through vermicompost (4.38 Mg/ha/vermicompost) + bio-fertilizer in BN hybrid + (cowpea – berseem) cropping system recorded 12.6% higher green fodder yield over 100% RDF. Parthenium (locally available weeds) enriched compost (4.1 Mg/ha) has also recorded similar results instead of vermicompost. Furthermore, the integrated use of inorganic (50%), organic (25%) and biofertilizers (Consortia of Rhizobium + Azotobacter + PSB) has also significantly moderated physical properties; increased SOC, soil available nutrients, microbial and enzymatic activities. Bajra × Napier – Cowpea intercropping with INM CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 65 Livestock based integrated farming systems for semi-arid Bundelkhand farmers: Five resources based and farmer specific IFS models (2 for rainfed and 3 for irrigated farmers) each of 1 ha size were developed and demonstrated by IGFRI, Jhansi to enhance the livelihood of Bundelkhand farmers. The models are irrigated intensive IFS with balanced enterprise combinations (for resource rich farmers), irrigated dairy based IFS with greater emphasis on milch animals and fodder (for dairy farmers), high value IFS with greater emphasis on high value crops like vegetables and fruits (for peri-urban and farmers near cities/ also simultaneously promoting above IFS models on fields of representative farmers in the area and planning for further up-scaling on larger scale through other inter-institutional programmes. Integrated Farming System: A step towards doubling farm income: Integrated farming system (IFS) model was developed with the concept of integration of multiple enterprises (crops, livestock’s, beekeeping, fisheries etc.