 of Himachal Pradesh lies in mid- hills sub-humid zone with an altitudinal range from 651-1,800 metres above sea level. The soil types are loam to clay-loam with erratic distribution of rainfall. Traditionally mixed farming is practiced in this zone. Cropping pattern is dominated by maize, wheat, paddy and millets. In some parts, fruits and vegetables are substituting cereal crops. Experimenters : Dr Navneet Kumar Vasishta, Associate Professor and Head, Dr Madhumeet Singh, Associate Professor and Dr Pankaj Sood, Assistant Professor, Department of Animal Reproduction Gynaecology and Obstetrics, COVAS, CSKHPKV, Palampur 176 062 (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY The survey was conducted in tehsil Karsog, dist. Mandi. as well as in Solan and Palampur area in Himachal Pradesh; and the experiment was conducted in the Department of Animal Reproduction, Gynaecology and Obstetrics. COVAS, CSKHPKV, Palampur (Himachal Pradesh). The ITK was claimed to be commonly practiced in teh. Karsog of dist. Mandi. However, no documented literature is available regarding its use elsewhere. PRA and field study The survey work was carried out in and around the area of Karsog, dist. Mandi. as well as in some villages of Solan and Palampur. This was done to ascertain: (i) The incidence of retention of placenta in domestic animals; (ii) Percentage of people practically adopting the ITK, under the investigations; (iii)Collection and identification of the specimens; (iv)Time/season of the availability of the specimens; and (v) Determining the therapeutic efficacy and doses regimens of the banana inflorescence and baykhal twigs extract being practised. Experiment The trials were conducted on the animals with  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. Banana inflorescence (Musa paradisiaca) Fig. 2. Baykhal (Prinsepia utilis) Fig. 3. Manual removal of placenta Fig. 4. Retained placenta in cow  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY history of retained placenta (not expelled within 12 hr of post- parturition). Before adopting the treatment, complete history and clinical evaluation of the case was done. Animals having administrated any prior treatment were excluded from the trial. The animals were divided in three groups: (a) Banana inflorescence The animals (n=6) of this group were administered 500 g chopped banana inflorescence orally and observed for 1 hr after the treatment. (b) Baykhal twig extract This group comprised animals (n=6) treated with baykhal twig extract. About 15-20 twigs of baykhal were soaked in water for about 1 hr. They were crushed and the juice was extracted. Each affected animal was drenched 200 ml of the extract and kept under observation for 1 hr after the treatment. (c) Control The recently normally calved animals with history of retained placenta, of livestock farm CSKHPKV, Palampur, were kept as control and no treatment was given to these animals for next 6 hr after placental retention (18 hr after calving).