 Principle The developed system acts as an artificially maintained bio-filtration system in which adsorption, microbial degradation/ transformation, and sequestration by media of appropriate particle size, depth and stratification and by plants planted in mono/ mixed culture and at appropriate depths/ inter-spacings are the major mechanisms (Fig. 1) that act to trigger the appropriate biogeochemical processes. With the wastewater moving at design depth and flow rate through the root-zone of the planted emergent vegetation and its interaction with the Treatment Process Chapter 2 Figure 1: Pictorial depiction of the treatment process JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology 5 native micro-organisms and the planting media, various organic/ inorganic pollutants and heavy metals in the wastewater get transformed, sequestered and thus removed from the influent – wastewaters. The technology rules out need for the incorporation of any external micro- organisms or any chemical based consumables thereby making the whole wastewater treatment process completely eco-friendly, energy-intensive and associated with no sludge generation. Unlike the subsurface flow wetland systems, wherein clogging is the major operational and maintenance issue, the proposed technology solution takes care of system clogging by completely eliminating the incorporation of any high CEC-material in the treatment beds, uniformly sheet-distributing the wastewater over the entire treatment zone through the use of multi-perforated influent distribution pipe, intermittent dosing of influent and incorporation of a wastewater collection well for reducing unintentional spill-over of solids from any upstream processes. 6 Long-term annual and inter-seasonal pollutant reduction efficiencies of the proposed technology based commissioned wastewater treatment facilities, along with their design hydraulic retention times (HRTs) and land area requirements are illustrated in Table 1 and 2. As evident, the proposed technology could generate treated wastewaters with 90% to 99% reduced turbidity, 99.8 to 99.9% reduced pathogen load, 78 to 88% reduced BOD, 57 to 100% reduced heavy metals and 30 to 57% reduced nitrates and phosphates (Table 1). In general, monsoon seasons (June- Sept; associated with pollutant leaching) were observed to be associated with about 15 to 40% lower pollutant reduction efficiencies than those during pre/post-monsoon and winter seasons (Table 2). Environmental Impacts The impact of untreated and treated sewage water on the health and quality of wheat and paddy crops was also estimated. This was assessed in terms of their plant/seed parameters, individual metal translocation patterns and the associated food grain metal sequestration threats. The positive impact of water treatment could be best expressed in terms of the test weight or 100 seed weight of the paddy crop, as it was found to be significantly lower for the crop irrigated with wastewater.