 As soon as leaves get cooled, they are heated again and replaced. This practice is repeated for one and half hour (Guujela). Balvalbhai (1992) 260 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 464 Treatment of cold in sheep and goat by bhoyrigni Juice of bhoyrigni (Solanum surattense) fruit is dropped in the nose of sheep and goats suffering from cold. It enhances respiration through nose. Bhoy rigni is a wild plant having violet-blue flowers. This is a thorny plant and grows around the river banks. (Any special effect of juice of Solanum surattense requires investigation, otherwise any simple or irritant fluid pouring in nasal cavity induce irritation and sneezing cause exhausion of air from nose) (Sanjnasar). Rambhai (1992) 465 Cure of chronic cough in cattle by ‘kandakathin’ (Solanum surattense) The leaves of kandakathin plant are made into a paste with thuthuvalai (Solanum trilobatum) and hot water. The extract is mixed in neem oil (Azadirachta indica) and given orally to cattle as a remedy for all types of chronic cough (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 466 Treatment for asthma/cough When animals have difficulty in breathing, about a quarter measure of kallathikai (Ficus tinctoria), 50 g cumin and two onions are pounded well, and administered to the animal. Anonymous (2000- 2001i) 467 Treatment of coughing and bronchitis The leaf paste of Mullu murungai tree (Erythrina suberosa) is mixed with water and given orally to cattle as a cure for severe coughing and bronchitis (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 468 Treatment of gathiya (painful swelling on the knee) A paste of gathiya vat root is made and placed on the swellings. After 1-2 days animal gets relief (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 469 Neck pain remedy Neck pain of animals used in agricultural labour can be alleviated with kuwaar or Aloe barbadensis. Kuwaar leaves are heated in hot ash and then pounded to a fine powder. This powder is applied to the neck of the animal to provide relief (Una, Himachal Pradesh). Devi (1998a) 261 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 470 Treatment of gathiya (painful swelling on the knee) A mixture of 500 g bark of bahauri (Cordia mixa), 200 g akshbel (Cuscuta reflexa), 500 g semal leaves (Bombax malabaricum), 250 g bamboo leaves (Bamboosa arandinaceae), 400 g leaves of arus (Adhatoda vesica) is taken and pounded. This mixture is added in 5-7 litres water and boiled until the half volume. This solution is now ready for washing the swelling. After washing the swelling a dense smoke is given around the affected parts. Animals gets cured in 4-5 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 471 Treatment of pain, swelling and eczema in cattle A seed paste of karu-comathai or Oomathai (Datura metal), mixed with water is applied to the patella (knee cap) area in cattle to relieve pain and swelling.