 At present, UID was generated for 146,326 students covering 74 AUs and interface of this portal was developed with DARE DBT portal. The portal is a major source of information for providing details of various sub schemes being operated in the area of agricultural education, their guidelines, information about various courses being offered by different agricultural universities. The support under the component development and strengthening, continued during the year. The support was provided for ongoing new civil works, including the balance remaining funds for 16 student hostels as well as for renovation and refurbishing of old existing structures, with greater emphasis on providing amenities for students. Teaching facilities were enhanced with support for virtual/smart classrooms with emphasis on support for these in off campus colleges. These classrooms with most up to date audio visual aids, enabled effective delivery of course curriculum, ensuring enriched learning experience. Funding support was also provided for upgradation of laboratories through purchase of latest equipments and modernization of existing infrastructure. ICAR also continued the support for AUs for conducting UG and PG practicals and upgradation of these laboratories with need based equipment. The AUs were also Infrastructural support for teaching and learning facilities Smart Classroom, UAS Bengaluru Automatic microbial identification system (CIL), OUAT, Bhubaneswar ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 119 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT supported for various activities leading to holistic development of students. Across the country, AUs were continued to be supported to design and implement comprehensive quality improvement programs, to bring about overall changes in capacity building of faculty, revision of course curriculum, learning materials, learning processes, learning outcomes, assessment and monitoring systems, to ensure that the quality of higher agricultural education and learning is improved. Smart classrooms, latest equipments in Central Instrumentation facilities were supported. The upgradation of UG and PG laboratories improved both PG student research and practicals. Communication labs helped improve the language skills of the students as per requirement. For increasing awareness in latest techniques and research in cutting edge areas support was provided for student and faculty amenities/tours/capacity building and participation in seminars, symposia, workshops, trainings, etc. Practical manuals were developed in various subjects. Overall personality development and leadership programmes with the support from the Council helped the students become better persons and to grow as individuals. Girls hostel, Solan The hostel facilities for the students were improved with support from the Council. The improved amenities and infrastructure helped attract talented students.