15 ppm of nano selenium improves the body weight gain, higher anti-oxidant enzyme status like GPx and SOD activity, both cellular and humoral immunity of the commercial birds. Nano Se concentration in liver, breast muscle, gizzard, kidney and brain is an indicator of Se bioavailability. Se levels in liver, breast muscle, gizzard, kidney and brain in all the Se treated groups were significantly higher but no effect on the organ weight was noticed. At higher level of supplementation, i.e. 0.60 and 1.20 ppm levels vacuolar degeneration in liver and degenerative tubular epithelial lining in kidney tissues were observed. Chemical, structural and functional characterization of identified anti-tick lead phytochemicals The safe, stable and characterized flowable (F10) and natural cream formulations were developed to tackle the resistant tick problem. Identification and quantification of five active compounds in the formulation were validated by a reversed phase HPLC-PDA method. Both the formulations were 80–90% effective under in vitro model and 60–90% efficacious against ivermectin resistant ticks. Both the formulations were evaluated against experimental challenge infestations and 70–90% efficacy was recorded within 7 days of application. Fragility of mid gut with ingested blood spillage after 12 h and complete structural disorganization of mid gut after 48 h of treatment was recorded. The efficacy of anti-tick natural formulations (F10 and cream) was validated on more than 100 animals at different locations of Parbhani district of Maharashtra and reported more than 80% efficacy. Field trial of the formulation was also done in Uttarakhand and initial data revalidated the results obtained in Maharashtra. The first generation anti-tick technology has been transferred to Ajay Bio-tech India Ltd, Pune. Tick infestation before application Efficacy after 4–5 days Efficacy of the formulations obtained in field trial in Maharashtra Elucidating the mechanism and assessing amelioration potential of Ocimum and Lucas in zebrafish: The organic carbon, microbial biomass carbon and phosphorous availability in soil regulate S-adenosyl-L- methionine (SAM) and Ursolic acid (UA) and exceptionally high concentration of SAM was detected in Ocimum and Lucas. The exposure to hypoxia, acidic pH stress, density and excess fat (HFD) impair metabolic homeostasis through down regulation of energy sensors (SIRT1, pAMPK and PGC1) and disruption of mitochondrial ATP production in muscle tissue. Interestingly, HPLC-purified SAM could suppress Fetuin A (FetA) and ameliorate impaired energy homeostasis. Additionally, abiotic stress in the Pelleted Feed prepared with nano selenium; Experimental; birds fed nano selenium SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 180 form of polluting organic ambience (Bisphenol A, 4-Nonylphenol), at environmentally relevant doses, severely impacted fish health.