 Keywords: glosopharingitis, kanak champa, inflammation To cure foot disease in animals, juice of 500 g babool (Acacia nilotica) leaves and 40 g alum is mixed thoroughly and applied drop by drop to the animal's foot twice daily. This treatment is followed in Rajupur village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: foot disease, babool (Acacia arabica), alum Alum (100 g) and babool (250 g) are boiled in water. This water is poured on the foot of animal to cure the foot disease. Keywords: alum, babool (Acacia nilotica), foot disease Cattle owners of village Pachhomi of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh make the animal to walk on hot sand for 15- 20 min. daily. The animal gets relief from foot disease. Keywords: hot sand, foot disease People of village Khai Khera of district Bareilley in Uttar Pradesh are following this ITK to cure foot disease in animals. Bark oijamun (Szygium cuminii) and babool (Acacia nilotica) is boiled and the extract is applied twice daily on the infected foot (lesions) of animal. Keywords: foot disease, jamun, babool (Acacia nilotica) bark Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380015 Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Lakhpat Singh, S/o Shri Babu Singh, Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rampal Singh, S/o Shri Hira Singh, Pachhomi, Faridpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Krishna, S/o Shri Ghasi Ram, Khai Khera, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3395 Use of babool (Acacia nilotica) for treatment of foot disease in animals 3396 Treatment of foot disease in animals with babool (Acacia sp.) and alum 3397 Treatment of foot disease in animals with karela and buttermilk 3398 Use of unprocessed leather water to cure foot and mouth disease in animals About 200 g babool (Acacia nilotica) bark is boiled in water and this is applied twice daily on the infected foot (lesions) of the animal. This treatment is followed in Bichuria village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: babool (Acacia nilotica) bark, foot disease Paste of babool (Acacia sp.) is prepared by mixing alum powder and it is applied twice daily on the infected foot lesions of the animal. People of village Bishesharpur in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh use this practice to cure foot disease in animals. Keywords: foot disease, babool, alum People of Khiraka village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment to cure foot disease in animals. A paste is prepared by mixing 10 g karela (Momordica charantia) leaves with 250 g buttermilk. It is given twice daily to the animal. The water of alum (250 g) is also drenched on the foot of animal 2-3 times daily. The foot disease is cured in a few days.