 R K Singh*, Shweta Soni, S V Dwivedi, A C Mishra and Ajeet Singh Prospects for growing a large number of horticultural crops. It contributes in poverty alleviation, nutritional security and have ample scope for farmers to increase their income and helpful in sustaining large number of agro-based industries which generate huge employment opportunities. The area and production in seven districts of Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh (Chitrakoot, Banda, Hamirpur, Mahoba, Jalaun, Jhansi and Lalitpur) is 1120 hectares and 20280 metric tonnes, respectively. Poor productivity of this crop may be due to many reasons including lack of region-specific high yielding varieties, improved production packages and quality seeds. In recent years, a large number of varieties and hybrids have been developed by National Institutes like Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research, IIHR, NHRDF, IARI, besides State Agricultural Universities like MPKV for cultivation in a wide range of agro-climatic conditions of the country in different seasons. However, a few or no variety has been developed specifically for Bundelkhand region. However, onion were evaluated at this centre and some varieties were identified such as L-883, Bhima Shweta, Agrifound Dark Red, Bhima Super, etc. which are grown by the farmers of this region using agro- techniques developed by institute which fetches more money enhancing their income and socio-economic status. Like Andhra, Telangana, Karnataka, Maharashtra, major part of Madhya Pradesh, and Bundelkhand region of Uttar Pradesh is suitable for onion cultivation during kharif seasons. Indian Horticulture 26 Selection of varieties The selections of high yielding kharif onion varieties are the important factor to improve the income and socio- economic status. Line-883: The plant is straight with erect green leaves and number of leaves per plant is about 6-9. Dark red bulb colour, globular round shape, thin neck and 5.0-5.75 cm, bulb diameter. The average weight of 20 bulbs is about 1.00-1.35 kg. Total soluble solid and dry matter content is about 12.5-13% and 13-14%, respectively. The variety is accepted by farmers because of its higher yield and better adaptability. Matures in 80-90 days after transplanting. In case of broadcasting of direct seeds in fields in Gujarat, Karnataka and Madhya Pradesh areas, it matured in only 80-85 days with good and compact bulbs. Tolerant to foliar diseases likes purple blotch and stemphylium blight under field condition. Average yield is about 25-32.5 t/ha. Agrifound Dark Red: Bulbs are dark red in colour, globular in shape with tight skin and moderately pungent. Bulb diameter is 4-6 cm. Total soluble solid 12-13% and pyruvic acid 10.07 micro mol/g. It is also suitable for bulblets production for early kharif crop. Matures in 90-95 days after transplanting. Average yield 300 q/ha, keeping quality average and recommended for kharif season all over the country.