 • Sustainability: Encourages environmentally friendly practices by minimizing the overuse of water, fertilizers, and pesticides. Indian Farming 86 January 2025 Developing value chains for rainfed production systems K. Narsaiah* Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-II, New Delhi 110 012 In rainfed agriculture, there is a need for adoption of new and emerging as well as established technologies for sustainable production and processing of food, fodder and other agriculture and allied commodities. Establishing robust value chains and better market access are few critical steps for enhancing income of smallholder farmers. Agro-processing centres form a very short value chain. By facilitating employment and promoting rural entrepreneurship, agro-processing centres also contribute to rural development. There is an urgent need to implement several strategies to build robust value chains of rainfed agriculture produce. Small farm appropriate mechanization of pre-harvest agricultural activities and automated post-harvest management as well as value- addition activities must be adopted. Infrastructure development, capacity building, policy support besides private sector engagement and adoption of sustainable practices are crucial in developing value chains in rainfed production systems. Keywords: Agro-prcoessing, Rainfed Agriculture, Value chains I N terms of area covered, rainfed agriculture accounts for major share both in Indian and global agriculture. Globally, its share is 70-80% and in India, it is about 52% of total cultivated land. The rainfed agriculture is very complex due to diversity and is prone to high risk caused by vagaries of climate. The spectrum of crops grown in rainfed production systems is very wide. It includes cereals, legumes, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables, fibres, and medicinal plants. The major factors governing crop selection are availability of water and economic importance of the crop. Rainfed agriculture encompass a wide variety of crops, each with its unique characteristics, economic importance, and adaptability to water- limited environments. Cereals, legumes, oilseeds, fruits, vegetables, fibres, and medicinal plants form the backbone of rainfed agriculture, supporting livelihoods, enhancing food security, and promoting rural development. These crops not only address caloric needs but also provide essential nutrients, oils, fibres, and medicinal compounds, contributing to both nutritional security and economic resilience. Sustainable production and processing of food, fodder and other agriculture and allied commodities under rainfed agriculture systems needs adoption of new and emerging as well as established technologies. It also needs different approaches to tackle the challenges of small and fragmented land holdings and associated resource constraints.