 Some of the unique minor fruits which are suitable for the backyard garden in tropical and sub-tropical regions are described herewith. Prospects Barbados cherry Barbados cherry (Malpighia marginata syn. Malpighia glabra) belongs to family Malpighiaceae. It is native to South America and Central America. It is grown over all tropical regions of the world. It was introduced in India long back and found growing in most of the tropical and sub-tropical humid regions of the country. It is an evergreen, bushy shrub or small tree attaining up to 5 m height. It has very short stem and spreading/ dropping branches. The flowers are pink and sessile. The fruits are borne singly or in cluster of 2-3 in the leaf axils. Fruits are oblate to round, cherry-like 1.25-2.5 cm diameter, bright-red coloured. The pulp is orange coloured, juicy and sour. The fruits are very rich in vitamin C (Table 1). There is no variety of Barbados cherry in India. The tree grows in well drained clay to loamy soil. It is generally propagated by seeds, air layering and cutting. The seed germination is about 50-60 per cent. About 300 g mixture of N.P.K (8-8-13) to young plant and 2 kg to adult plants may be given two times a year for better growth and yield. The flowering and fruiting start ripening in April- May and continue to produce successive small crops until December under Bengaluru conditions. A grown up shrub may yield 15-25 kg fruit /year. Slightly immature fruits may be harvested for processing. Barbados cherries are eaten mainly as fresh but can be used for making candies and fruit wines. Bilimbi Bilimbi, Averrhoa bilimbi L., (Oxalidaceae), is close relative of carambola. It is cultivated throughout South and South East Asia native region. In India, it is grown in tropical region, except higher hills. The tree is attractive, perennial which may grow up to 4-6 m height. It has a short trunk giving rise to several upright branches. The stem is smooth. The leaves are compound and leaflets are light green in colour. The tree starts flowering after 2-3 years of planting. The flowers are small, fragrant, yellowish-green or purplish, marked with dark-purple, are borne in small, hairy panicles emerging directly from the trunk and old branches. Fruit are borne in clusters. These are nearly cylindrical, smooth, 6-10 cm long and 2-3 cm in diameter. The fruit is crisp when unripe, turns from bright-green to yellowish-green when ripe. The fruit rind is glossy, thin, soft and tender, and pulp is greenish yellow, jelly-like, juicy and extremely acid. There are 5-7 seeds per fruit, wide, smooth and brown. It requires humid tropical conditions with good sunshine. Bilimbi grows best in rich, moist, well-drained soil. The tree is multiplied by seed and air-layering. The tree begins to flower in February – March and then blooms and fruits more or less continuously until December. The fruits are picked by hand, singly or in clusters.