 Storing of hatchable eggs The eggs were generaly not strictly maintained at recommended temperature and relative humidity but hatching eggs were stored in a cool and dark room before setting it in incubator. Incubation Incubation period for duck egg is 28 days which is higher than chicken. Temperature and humidity were maintained as per the required standard for duck egg hatching. Eggs were manually turned at least 4 times a day during incubation. Eggs (1200) were put into the incubator, assuming at least 85-87% of hatching percentage. It was expected to get at least 1020–1050 day-old ducklings. Brooding of duck The brooding period (0-4 weeks) is very crucial for duckling and very high mortality may occur, if care and management is not done properly. About 10 sq m area for 1000 ducklings is essential or 100 sq cm area per duckling is adequate for brooding purpose. A temperature of 29-32°C is Rural youth with incubator Indian Farming January 2022 30 maintained during the first week. It is reduced by about 3°C per week till it reaches 24°C at the end of fourth week. During summer months when temperature is higher than the recommended level, air circulation was increased to reduce the temperature. In winter months, a 60- watt bulb at 1-1.5 m height from the ground level is quite sufficient to maintain the required temperature. Feed is provided in the trays or sprinkled for encouraging the new born ducklings to pick up feed. Ad libitum feed is provided in trough type of feeders from day two. Suitable feeders for ducklings were given with growing age. During the time period of 4 weeks, about 15 q of duck starter is required but about 5 q of duck starter was purchased and rest were managed through feeding of locally available low-cost feed (i.e. rice husk and broken rice). Water in the drinkers were provided judiciously which was sufficient for them to drink and not dip themselves. All possible care and management was made to keep the duckling dry. The ducklings were vaccinated against duck plague at an age of 2-3 weeks with duck plague vaccination available from Govt. sources through paravet workers or sometime purchase from the local market. About 1020-1050 ducklings were brooded in anticipation to get at least 1000 ducklings for marketing if the mortality can be managed at about 3- 4% only. Marketing of duckling Marketing of duckling is a very important aspect for sustainability of the enterprise and like every enterprise there also lies the hurdle of marketing of ducklings at a good price. The ducklings were generally marketed after the brooding period is over. The market rate of duckling varies depending on the age of duckling. On an average duckling at the age of 4 weeks were sold in between ` 60-70 per birds. Economics The economic analysis based on hatching of 1200 duck eggs at a time Table 1. Economic analysis of hatching and brooding for duckling production Particulars Amount (`) Gross Eggs 16,800.