 Institute is awarded with 7 patents and also filed 4 patents on several technologies. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Training module on integrated farming system (IFS) model. • PCR assay for simultaneous detection of Phytophthora, Pythium and Fusarium, molecular techniques for detection of black pepper, ginger and cardamom viruses and developed PCR, RPA and LAMP protocols for detection and differentiation of Phytophthora species. • Eco friendly bio intensive management of major pathogens of black pepper, cardamom, ginger and turmeric. • Soil test based fertilizer recommendation. • Training module for entrepreneurs/farmers/stakeholders/Govt. agencies on different aspects of production, protection technologies and post harvest management. • Barcoding to detect plant-based adulterants. Turmeric var. Pragathi Ginger var. Rejatha Nutmeg var. Viswasree 94 ICAR Institutes Profile 94 ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IIVR, Jakkhini, Uttar Pradesh 221305 ii. Name of the Director: Dr TK Behra iii. Email Address: director.iivr@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 0542-2635247 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance and sustain productivity, monitor quality and utilization of vegetable crops. • Repository of vegetable crops, genetic resources and scientific information. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies under AICRP on vegetable Crops. Activities • ICAR-IIVR has research programs on 42 vegetables with major focus on tomato, brinjal and chilli in Solanaceous vegetables; peas, French bean and cowpea in Leguminous vegetables; cauliflower and cabbage in cruciferous vegetables; bitter gourd, ash gourd, pumpkin, pointed gourd, muskmeleon, bottle gourd, sponge gourd, ridge gourd and cucumber in cucurbitaceous vegetables; okra in malvaceous vegetables and radish and carrot in root vegetables. • ICAR-IIVR functions through AICRP (Vegetables Crops) and 03 Divisions namely Division of Vegetable Improvement, Division of Vegetable Production and Division of Vegetable Protection. 3. Salient achievements • Institute has developed 141 high yielding and disease resistant varieties/hybrids including tomato (monopartite and bipartite viruses resistant KashiAman, KashiAdarsh and ToLCV virus resistant KashiAbhiman), Okra (YVMV & OELCV resistant KashiKranti and KashiVardan) and Indian bean(YMV resistant KashiHaritima) and cowpea (GMV resistant KashiNidhi), identified through the AICRP (VC), which have led to 20-25% higher productivity of these crops. • Nutritionally superior varieties have been developed in radish (KashiLohit), carrot (Kashi Krishna) and okra (KashiLalima).