 A novel way of manufacturing slowly disintegrating fertilizer materials is thus envisaged. Composite Curing Studies Weight loss gradient was large during ﬁrst week for all C-H composite samples. The weight loss varied from 25% to 39% in the different C-H composites tested. Curing rate hence is considered to peak during the ﬁrst week while it petered after the second week. The samples containing more volume fraction of horse dung comparatively weighed less. Fig. 6 below indicates weight loss of C-H composites during curing. Density of the 28 day cured sample varies from 1120 to 1980 kg/m3 (Satankar et al., 2018). Stability in weight of C5H5 is observed after the second week of curing. Mechanical Strength of C-H Composite C-H composite structure built with C5H5 composition is a ﬂexural member. From Fig. 7 it is evident that ﬂexural strength of C5H5 is better than any other composition of C-H composites. Flexural strength follows a quotient response based multiplicative distribution as a function of curing age (Satankar et al., 2018). M5H5 samples were found to have visually uniform surface compared to all other compositions (Satankar et al., 2018). Fig. 6 Curing of composite samples. Fig. 7 Flexural strength as a function of volume of horse dung in the C-H composite. 940 Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use The property of fracture toughness in C-H composites follow a cyclic pattern as illustrated in Fig. 8. Fracture toughness values of the traditional C-H composites follows a generalized three parameter pareto model (Satankar et al., 2018). The packaging of such composites within geotextile mats is used in managing soil quality and productivity (Dave et al., 2017). The packaged hybrid composite is shown in Fig. 9. The hybrid composites are embedded in the arid sandy loam soil in wet saturated condition as shown in Fig. 9 to trap moisture for a long time beneath the soil surface. SCMI Ceramics for Water Storage Cruse manufactured in western Rajasthan is off-white in color (Roux, 2015; Kaurwar et al., 2017a,b). The process of cruse manufacturing has not varied across India since ages (Satankar et al., 2018). The off-white color is due to high content of MgO and CaO oxides on the cruse outer surface (Kaurwar et al., 2017a,b). The non oxidative and oxidative sintering on the inside and outside of the cruse is evident with the color differentiation between the two surfaces. The internal wall of the cruse is red in color. This distinctiveness is supported by comparatively high percentage of Ca and Fe on the internal wall of the cruse. The selection of clay is very important and depends on potters experience in cruse manufacturing. The excavated clay is collected at a speciﬁed location where it is exposed to the open atmosphere. The degeneration process that occurs during this period makes the soil better to work.