 Farmers can optimize the tree canopy of mango using this mobile app and may get a good yield of quality fruits. For further information, please contact: 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation, Research Centre, Chandigarh-160019. 2ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation, Research Farm, Selakui, Dehradun-248011 Indian Horticulture 16 Woolly Apple Aphid in Dry Temperate Zone with Natural Farming Under the changing climate scenario, with rising temperatures, the area apple cultivation is increasing in Spiti, and the orchardists are facing serious infestation of woolly apple aphids in their orchards. The nymphs and adults cause the damage by sucking the sap and forms characteristic knots or galls. Subterranean aphid colonies can kill the young apple plants with prolonged feeding, while fruits from heavily infested trees remain undersized, malformed and insipid in taste. Synthetic pesticides are capable of eliminating pest populations but they also pose a threat to non-target organisms, development of pesticide resistance, and have negative environmental impacts, especially in the fragile agro-ecosystem of these cold desert regions. Natural farming has demonstrated successful pest control using low-cost, locally sourced inputs when compared to conventional farming methods in the region. S PITI Valley is a remote tribal region and is an integral part of Indian cold deserts and located in the western Himalayan region in India. Apple has become an important cash crop in this tribal area, contributing significantly to the economy of farmers. Although very less area is occupied by apple orchards in comparison to other apple-producing areas in the state, the produce from the apple orchards in Spiti is of very good quality fetching the highest prices in the market. Agriculture in Spiti (dry temperate zone), Himachal Pradesh is the mainstay of the local economy and shares a delicate balance with the geo-climatic conditions of this cold desert region. The area is characterized by harsh climatic conditions with monsoon shadow Himalayas i.e. dry and cold weather, low temperature, heavy snowfall and scarce annual rainfall of about 50-150 mm resulting in erosion and landslides. Apart from green pea, apple is considered an important source to increase the economy of resource-poor farmers of this tribal area. With the changing climate scenario, rising temperatures in the valley is resulting in bringing more area under apple cultivation with every passing year and subsequently the orchardists are facing some problems about woolly apple aphid infestation in their orchards. Woolly apple aphid, Eriosoma lanigerum (Hausmann) (Family: Pemphigidae) is one of the most destructive pests of apple in the world. In India, it is an exclusive pest of apple and crab apple. It is an exotic pest but specific to apple and is well spread in all apple-growing regions of India.