25 kg/pot with 10 kg soil enhanced the yield of bush pepper by 119 and 75% respectively compared to chemical fertilizers. Foliar diagnostic norms for assessing nutrient balance and yield was developed by utilizing Diagnosis Recommendations Integrated System (DRIS) for optimum production in cardamom. About 18% dry recovery was obtained from ginger Bhaise, Kalimpong and Gurubathani when these were cultivated in plains of Kerela compared to 10-12% at higher altitude (Sikkim). However, volatile oil and oleoresin were higher (2.5 and 7%) at Sikkim compared to Kerala (1.5 and 5%). The micronutrient application increased the yield in coriander. Foliar application of MnSO4, ZnSO4 and CuSO4 each @ 0.50% and soil application of FeSO4 @ 5 kg/ ha or foliar application at pre-flowering stage @0.125% can be recommended to get higher seed yield of coriander under micronutrient deficient sandy loam soils. Studies on synthesis of curcumin in turmeric indicated that the actitivity of phenyl alanine ammonia lyase (PAL), the key enzyme in curcumin biosynthesis was maximum in the mitochondrial fraction compared to microsomal and cytoplasmic fractions. GC profile of volatile oils of turmeric rhizomes, roots and leaves showed that ar-turmerone was the major component in rhizomes, roots (31.5% and 46.8% respectively) while 2- phellandrene (32.6%) was the major component in leaves. A storage technology for reducing the disease incidence and high recovery of seed rhizome involves storage in sand layered pits mixed with Dithane M-45+ Bavistin (5g+3g/kg of seed) and is recommended for adoption. Biochemical characterization of Phytophthora isolates was initiated using isozyme analysis. The isolates were characterized for catalase (CAT), superoxide dismutase (SOD), malic enzyme (ME) and glucose-6 phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PDH). Up to 10 putative loci were resolved across the 4 enzyme systems studied. The electrophoretic patterns for 4 enzymes revealed that 3 loci each for SOD and ME and 2 loci for G6PDH. Screening of germplasm of black pepper against Phytophthora capsici indicated that HP 105, HP 423, HP 664, HP 756 and HP 780 showed tolerant reaction. Promising isolates of fluorescent Pseudomonas sp. and Trichoderma sp. were isolated from rhizosphere of black pepper. Volatile metabolites produced by Trichoderma spp. reduced virulence of P. capsici. Among 20, T. harzianum isolates studied, 6 of them caused more than 50% loss in virulence of P. capsici. Among the various Trichoderma spp. evaluated for their effect on growth promotion of black pepper seedlings and control of foot rot, T. aureoviride P-25 and T. aureoviride P- 25 + T. harzianum P-26 promoted maximum growth of seedlings. Coir compost + sorghum was the best carrier medium for mass multiplication of Trichoderma.