22 15643.22 Socio-cultural Recreation Willingness to pay - - 3465.00 3465.00 Total estimated economic value of ecosystem services from multifunctional agroforestry 374211.42 Indian Farming 32 August 2023 climatic conditions, improving productivity and mitigating climate in the long run. Similarly, the multifunctional agroforestry model has regulated the temperature to the tune of 1–2°C in summer. The vegetation composition in multifunctional agroforestry has ability to sequester 2.23 tonnes of carbon from 235 multi-utility trees and shrubs and 124 trees of tree borne oilseeds. The change in soil organic carbon stock over 3–4 years was 32.05 mg/ha. Reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (REDD), a United Nations-based mechanism implemented a carbon market (an individual or company can sell carbon stored and receive an amount for every tonne of carbon sequestered). Therefore, revenue generated from the sale of carbon would be a supplementary benefit for the farmers. Henceforth, the total carbon revenue from the multifunctional agroforestry model (monetary benefits) were estimated as `2798.20 (vegetation) and `12845.02 (soil organic carbon). Supporting services: These are the factors responsible for production of oxygen, habitat provision, soil formation and nutrient cycling. Multifunctional agroforestry was able to produce oxygen of 5.92 tonnes from 0.75 acre. Moreover, the diversified vegetation complexity has attracted 37 different butterfly species during the migratory season which was counted based on the pollard walk method. Butterfly communities respond to both land- use type and management intensity, at local (field) and landscape level. Cultural services: The physical, emotional and mental benefits generated by cultural services are subtle and intuitive in nature and the opinion differs with individual visitors which changes over a timespan. In other words, the non-immaterial benefits obtained from any ecosystem are referred as cultural services. The aesthetic and recreational benefits from multifunctional agroforestry were qualitatively surveyed through questionnaire methods by conducting awareness workshops (105 respondents from national and international experts, farmers and local people). Respondents’ willingness to pay (WTP) depicted an average of `33 per visit for enjoying socio-cultural services from a multifunctional agroforestry model. Holistically, in three years (2018–2021), the monetary value of ecosystem services from multifunctional agroforestry was `374211.42 (Table 2). SUMMARY There is accumulation of evidence on agroforestry supporting ecosystem services and attaining food security. However, paucity of evidences as a whole on multifunctional agroforestry for small holders and ecosystem services persists.