 [88] concluded that IoT-based greenhouse monitoring and control systems can assist growers in adopting cost-effective, user-friendly, and durable modern problem–solution systems. These IoT-based systems accurately monitor and regulate temperature, humidity, light intensity, CO2 levels, and soil moisture. Therefore, selecting a suitable sensor networking system is crucial while creating an efficient greenhouse parameter monitoring and control system. In 2023, Vandôme et al. [40] designed a low-cost, low-tech, low-energy, open-source IoT-based wireless sensors network (WSN) for drip irrigation. The proposed tool can be a decision-support tool for real-time irrigation water management. Vakula Rani et al. [89] presented an SIS for plant growth monitoring using unmanned aircraft systems (UAVs) and IoT technology. This study reported that the system can monitor several parameters (soil moisture, climate data, water level, and plant health status). Also, it can efficiently control and make in situ IS decisions on when and how much water to supply to the plants. Seyar and Ahamed [90] developed an IoT-based (LoRaWAN-based) SIS for tomato plants using two surface and subsurface drip methods. This study recommended integrating the SIS with surface and subsurface drip methods. The SIS provides many Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 13 of 40 opportunities with easy operation and robust monitoring and controlling capabilities for cultivating tomatoes in outdoor conditions. In 2022, Dahane et al. [91] proposed an Edge-IoT-Cloud method for SISs. Their process was based on a deep learning methodology. The proposed method can efficiently monitor and predict the IS intervals. Shahidi et al. [92] designed an SIS system using the IoT technique. They used temperature, humidity, and soil moisture sensors to collect the in situ field information. Their system can analyze real-time field data collected via sensors and online weather forecasts. Based on the collected data, the planned tool can decide the appropriate irrigation water required for the plant’s growth. Chithra et al. [93] presented an SIS for sprinkler systems. In the design, they used a Raspberry Pi and wireless sensor techniques. They reported that the developed system can help farmers better understand their field’s conditions smartly. The farmers can efficiently utilize the input resources and get significant benefits. Also, it provides an opportunity to automate the sprinkler irrigation systems. Cheema et al. [94] developed an SIS by proposing an Android application called “Kistan Pakistan” in their native language. The proposed application can allow farmers to remotely monitor their fields by providing data on real-time soil moisture, pH, and climate parameters. This system can help farmers remotely understand the variations in soil quality, environmental factors, and cropping pattern analysis.