 Touching the lives of rural masses through S&T interventions, the story of cultivating superior varieties of mint by Indian farmers unquestionably proves that scientific research is all set to transform rural India by bringing equitable and inclusive growth, which is reflected in enhancing the socio-economic status of the rural populace. For further interaction please write to: Priyanka Suryavanshi, CSIR-CIMAP, Lucknow. Corresponding author e-mail: priyankaagrios@gmail.com Harvesting of mentha by women farmers Indian Horticulture 14 Bineeta Singh* Sharda – New variety of okra The okra or lady’s finger (Abelmoschus esculantus (L.) Monch ) is a gift from African continent to the people of other parts of the world. There are altogether 38 species of genus Abelmoschus under family - Malvaceae. It is an important vegetable crop grown in summer and rainy season but in coastal region of Maharashtra, it is grown throughout the year. Okra is rich source of vitamins, minerals such as calcium, iron, potassium, iodine and dietary fiber too. Tender green fruits are fried to prepare Bhujia and cooked in curry, soups and stews which are its also popular dishes. The fruits also help in case of renal colic, goiter, leucorrhoea and general anemia especially in poor women. Research D U E t o m a s s i v e o k r a improvement programme going on at several Research Institutes and SAU’s in India, over two dozen HYV’s of this vegetable, have been developed and released for commercial cultivation. Owing to this systematic research progamme, India has bagged first position in okra production in world. It produces 5,784 thousand tonnes which is 72% of total okra production of world. Although many varieties of green colour of okra have been developed but red / scarlet red colour varieties are few. Another challenge in okra cultivation is yellow vein mosaic disease which reduces the yield up to 90-95% in severe attack. Fruits of Sharda variety of okra are scarlet red colour and crop is field resistant to yellow vain mosaic disease. Its yielding ability is 200-215 q/ha under intensive cultivation. After continuous several years of mutation breeding programme to develop a HYV of scarlet red colour okra, AKS University has given a gift of scarlet red colour variety of okra to the farmers of Vindhya region of Satna during November 2019. Fruits of Sharda variety of okra are 24-25 cm long having five ridges and have good cooking quality as compared to green colour varieties. Commercial cultivation of this variety will improve the economic conditions of vegetable growers of Madhya Pradesh and India too. This variety is named after name of Maa Goddess – Sharda of Maihar (Madhya Pradesh). The data on growth and yield parameters of 10 varieties of okra presented in Table 1 revealed that variety Sharda is the most promising variety with an yield of 215 q/ha. Its fruit are longer (24.50 cm) than other varieties and scarlet red in colour.