 Out of the above vaccines developed till date by ICAR, 16 have been commercialized or transferred to various State veterinary biological production units and are currently in production by them. Seven newly developed vaccines have been taken up for commercialization. A concise information of vaccines for livestock and poultry that have contributed to the animal health management in the country and disease control is presented in this compilation. 4 Vaccines for Cattle and Buffaloes A 5 Anthrax Spore Vaccine yy Anthrax is a zoonotic disease caused by the spore forming bacterium Bacillus anthracis. yy Anthrax is most common in wild and domestic herbivores. yy In herbivores, anthrax commonly appears as an acute septicaemia with a high fatality rate. yy In livestock, anthrax can be controlled largely by annual vaccination of all grazing animals in the endemic area. yy At present, live anthrax spore vaccine prepared from B. anthracis Sterne strain suspended in glycerine is available in India. ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar adopted this vaccine technology in 1951. yy First vaccine is given at the age of 6 months in anthrax enzootic area and then it is repeated annually before monsoon with not less than 10 million spores/ dose. yy The production of anthrax spore vaccine started in 1956-57 at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar, which gradually increased and with highest production recorded in 1964-65, when more than 6.6 lakh doses were manufactured and supplied. Gradually the technology was transferred to various State biological products units. yy The vaccination led to remarkable decrease in disease outbreaks in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 1 6 Black Quarter (BQ) Vaccine yy Black Quarter (BQ) is a generalized infection of cattle, buffalo and sheep caused by bacterium Clostridium chauvoei. yy It is characterized by emphysematous swelling of the muscles especially those of gluteal region. yy Black Quarter vaccine is available in India as a formalin-inactivated C. chauvoei culture, adjuvanted with aluminium hydroxide gel or alum precipitated vaccine. ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar adopted this vaccine technology in 1906. yy First vaccination is done at the age of 6 months and is then repeated annually. yy Black quarter vaccine production started at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar in 1922-23 and was supplied to the then United Provinces, Punjab, Bengal, Assam, Bihar & Orissa, Central Province, Bombay, Madras, Sind & Rajasthan and Mysore. Gradually vaccine production increased and during 1954-60 more than 10.0 lakh doses/year and in 1959-60 approximately 17.0 lakh doses were manufactured at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar to cover the large animal population. yy Vaccination has led to decrease in disease outbreaks in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.