 l A technology has been standardized for broodstock development and broodstock feed. l A vaccine for the control of duck pasteurollosis has been developed. l Cage system and deep litter system for rearing layer ducks has been standardized. l Farmer-friendly PCR protocols for the diagnosis of white spot syndrome virus disease in shrimp have been developed. Arid Agro-ecosystem l Drought-tolerant and yellow mosaic virus-resistant varieties of cowpea, mungbean and clusterbean have been evolved. l To supplement income and nutrition, backyard poultry have been introduced into 46 villages covering 750 farmers in Rajasthan. Demonstration of high-density cropping model with banana, pineapple and black pepper An intercropping of maize in coconut for getting higher returns DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 196 l Backyard poultry introduced into 46 villages to increase income and nutrition. l Geenhouses, designed and installed, made vegetable growing possible in winter to cater to the need of people and army personnel stationed in cold desert regions. l Camel-milk fermentation process standardized for producing dahi of quality matching to the IDFS. l To generate alternate employment and income, a technology for culturing brackish water shrimp and fishes in saline water, common in the arid region, has been introduced in four villages. l In different cold desert regions, greenhouses designed and installed have made growing of vegetables possible in winter which can meet demands of the local people and army personnel stationed there. Backyard poultry can increase income and generate employment in arid region Vegetable production in arch greenhouse at Lari (Leh) l The standardized process of camel-milk fermentation could produce dahi with quality matching to the International Dairy Federation Standards. Goat milk paneer (soft, slightly salty with no goatee odour) was prepared by adding 0.1% citric acid in 77–88°C hot milk. l Calf hair (40%) blended with viscose staple fibre was found suitable for bulk processing. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 197 l Eight new fish species reported for the first time. l 28 hybrids of crops and 39 hybrids of vegetables developed. l Produced cabbage, tomato and chickpea using IPM and without pesticidal sprays. l A technology developed for packing ready-to-eat fish preparations. MISSION MODE PROJECT ON NUTRITIONAL SECURITY More than 6,000 farm families at 47 locations in 15 states in tribal, backward and hilly areas where benefits of Green Revolution did not reach, were brought under this mission mode project to improve their economic condition by supplying quality seed of improved varieties of life- support crops, planting material of fruit and vegetable crops and improved breeds of poultry, pig and fish and, production training. This is resulting in increase in income, living standards of people and also the employment opportunities and health.