75. The beneficiary farmers found strawberry cultivation to be more profitable than paddy cultivation and adopted it in the next year. Ten farmers from surrounding villages also started cultivating strawberries. Farmers from the irrigated belt of the plain area of Khed, Ambegaon, and Junnar tehsil also adopted strawberry cultivation and started supplying collection centres of various agriculture malls like Tata, Birla, Reliance, Big Basket, amazon, etc. Presently, the area under strawberry cultivation in those 3 tehsils has increased to 24 ha. A commercial vegetable nursery has also started importing mother plants, and strawberry saplings are being made available to farmers at the tehsil level. The area dedicated to growing strawberries has increased, and as a result, local farmers have started processing their produce into jam, jelly, and juice in a processing unit. This has ensured economic stability for their families. Some farmers brought their fruits to the KVK processing laboratory, where juice was prepared and bottled. This strawberry juice is now being sold in metropolitan towns. Some farmers are also keeping their TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 181 Spraying of waste decomposer on sugarcane trash village, sugarcane is cultivated over an area of 3100 ha. Farmers usually take 5–6 ratoons of sugarcane and burn the sugarcane crop stubbles after every harvest to make the field clean and add fertility to the soil. However, this practice eliminates flora and fauna in the soil ecosystem and leads to greenhouse gas emissions. To address this issue, the KVK, Ariyalur undertook a series of interventions like OFT, FLD, method demonstrations, and awareness programs on the harmful effects of burning and the use of microbial decomposers (waste decomposer of NCOF and TNAU bio-mineralizer) for in situ decomposition of sugarcane trash. The efforts of the KVK resulted in a total avoidance of burning in 1,650 ha of land. Moreover, there was an average increase of 15.50% in productivity due to the enhanced fertility of the soil where sugarcane trash was decomposed in situ. This technology is now spreading to neighboring villages, including Kulamanikum, Sembiyakudi, Pudukottai, Aranmanikuruchi, and Thirumanur, in an area of 875 ha. Blending taste of coffee with the goodness of mushroom-A novel initiative in agriprenuership (KVK, Kollam) Mr. Lalu Thomas, a 45-year-old chef an ex expatriate from UAE who lost his highly remunerative job due to the Covid crisis in 2019. The unexpected loss of job forced Mr. Lalu to return to his native village, Thalavoor in Kollam district. Finding a job according to his expertise was very difficult. He started searching for other avenues for supporting his family. He started cultivation and marketing of mushroom, he learnt many new lessons about the market demand, shelf- life of mushroom and demand harvesting. The bigger challenge was the shelf-life.