 • Saving labour requirement of about 70–80% and upto 50% saving in cost of operation can be achieved. • Leads to reduction in drudgery compared to the conventional method of transplanting. Way forward • In India recent developments on vegetable transplanters are still under research phase and need to revitalize their basic designs for reduction in initial costs. Other solutions could be developing automatic innovative technologies which can reduce the operational costs. Another alternative may be establishing a parallel line of mechanization from start of unit operations (like seedling preparation to transplanting), so that conventional practice gets reduced. • There is large variation in allocation of area under cultivation of vegetables, in that concern solution for large area may not be applicable to all sizes of area. Therefore, technologies based on the small power Automatic vegetable transplanters for vegetable seedlings developed at Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology (MPUAT), Udaipur (left) and Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth (MPKV), Rahuri (right) Robotic transplanter for plug seedlings Source: CIAE Newsletter, 2021 Field capacities, labour requirement and speed of operation The average field capacity of Indian Farming 34 February 2023 sources must be taken up. Once such technology gets developed then it would be easy to multiply them with compatible sources of power to address the large farms. Limitation in semi- automatic transplanters can be addressed by developing a low cost robust automatic seedling extractors for pick-up and placing the devices which could be retrofitted with available semi-automatic transplanters. This would help to substantially reduce the cost of operation and help adopt them. SUMMARY The developed vegetable transplanters have low field efficiencies. One of the major constraints in increasing vegetable productivity is the low level of mechanization. Manual transplanting on a large commercial scale is labour intensive, expensive, and often does not result in uniform distribution of plants compared with mechanical transplanters. Also, feeding of seedlings to the delivery unit is difficult for bare-root seedlings due to singulation, selection, alignment and manual transfer of seedlings. These suggest an ample scope of working on automatic metering mechanisms for vegetable seed pickup and drop. Investigations on developing automated seedling feeding mechanisms can increase the transplanting speeds, thereby utilizing tractor power effectively and reduce cost of cultivation. Further research in this direction can lead to research work pertinent to present bottlenecks of adoption of mechanization options available till date. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: abhijitnu2@ gmail.com A single publication collating sugar-cultivation practices in different states of India is still unavailable.