 Livestock and Poultry The Livestock and Poultry houses should be properly ventilated to avoid various respiratory problem smell of ammonia, which may predispose in animals Livestock should be kept clean, dry, and warm with proper bedding material to avoid contact with cold surface during winter. The animal houses should be protected from smoke from fires which are lit to provide warmth. The smoke and dust increase chance to develop pneumonia. The houses of Livestock and Poultry should be fully opened during daytime for expos use to sunlight of animal shed. Provide them clean and warm water for drinking every part of animal house to sunlight. New-born animals are more prone to cold stress during winter, therefore provide jute coat them until they start eating concentrate. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 184 Poultry shed should be preheated during winter before introducing day old chicks. Adequate arrangement for drainage of water should be made to avoid water logging in and around the house. Spray ecto-parasiticidal drugs on animal body surface and in Cattle yard/Pashushala to avoid haemoprotozoal diseases. Different varieties of Berseem (Vardan, Mascavi and BL-42) and Oat (Kent, Oat-9 and JHO- 851) can be cultivated for use as fodder for livestock. The sowing of Fodder (Berseem) should be after seed treatment with rhizobium culture. Sowing of oat to be done in October for obtaining maximum yield. The surplus green fodder can be dried in sunny days for making Hay, which may be used during lean period. The animals should be fed mineral mixture @ 50-60 g/day/cattle or buffalo and balance concentrate mixture @ 1.25-1.5 kg/day/ animal for maintenance purpose. The kids above four months of age should be vaccinated with PPR vaccine. Cattle and buffaloes should be vaccinated for FMD, Haemorrhagic Septicaemia Black Quarter etc. The age of first vaccination should be 4-6 month and it should be repeated every six months for FMD and annually in case of Haemorrhagic Septicaemia and Black Quarter. The female calf should be vaccinated once for brucellosis at the age of 4-8 months with s19 strain vaccine. Vaccinate Poultry bird against different bacterial and viral disease Ranikhet Disease, IBD, Mareks disease, Infectious bronchitis, Fowl pox, Fowl cholera etc. as per vaccination schedule The poultry and calf feed should be added with coccidiostat to avoid problems of coccidiosis. The Mastitis in animals can be prevented with following clean milk production practice. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 185 The animals should not be allowed to graze near pond and lakes to protect the animals from internal parasitic infestation. To avoid formation of litter cake, dampness and bad smell in poultry house, daily raking of litter and mixing of lime powder is required.