 (c) The estimates for expenditure to be met out of the Government of India grant for each year shall further exhibit the expenditure on research under the following major heads: i) Agriculture and Soil Conservation, ii) Animal Husbandry, ill) Dairy Development, iv) Fisheries, v) Education, and vi) Other heads. (d) The expenditure on Plan and Non-Plan Schemes shall be shown separately. (e) The estimates for expenditure from Agricultural Produce Cess Fund shall be exhibited separately under the following heads: i) Agriculture and Animal Husbandry Research, ii) Research Schemes at the ICAR Institutes, 35 Sanction of Budget Estimates Communication of sanction of Estimates Submission of Revised and Supplementary Estimates of Expenditure New Schemes Urgent Schemes Additional grant for approved schemes ill) Fellowships, Scholarships, Awards, and iv) Miscellaneous. 2. The Secretary shall, in the first instance, place the Budget Estimates before the Standing Finance Committee and then together with the recommendations of the Standing Finance Committee constituted under Section 7 of the Agricultural Produce Cess Act, 1940, to the Governing Body for sanction. 3. After the estimates have been finally approved by the Governing Body, the details of the allotments for expenditure of the various constituent units shall be communicated to them by the Financial Adviser. One copy of the sanctioned estimates shall also be sent to the Auditor of the Council nominated by the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. All variations in the estimates sanctioned by the competent authority during the year shall be similarly communicated. 4. Revised and/or supplementary estimates of expenditure shall similarly be submitted to the Governing Body for sanction in such form and on such dates as may be directed by the Governing Body. 5. For new schemes proposed to be financed from the receipts/accumulations of the Agricultural Produce Cess Fund, prior approval of the Governing Body shall be necessary. 6. The Director-General may, subject to the availability of funds in the budget by reappropriation or otherwise, and provided that in his opinion the scheme is urgent and that its sanction cannot be deferred to the next meeting of the Standing Finance Committee and the Governing Body, sanction for a period not exceeding one year an original grant not exceeding Rs 50,000.00 for a new scheme. No such scheme shall, however, be constituted beyond the said period of one year without approval of the Standing Finance Committee and the Governing Body. 7(1) The Director-General may sanction additional grant for an approved scheme up to the following financial limits subject to a maximum of 25% of the original • grant sanction for the entire period of that scheme:- a) Where cost of the approved Rs. 20.000/- scheme is Rs 1 lakh or less 36 1) 7(2) Appropriation and reappropriation out of sanctioned Estimates 8. b) Where cost of the approved Rs 50.