 Drought parameter Equation Symbol and units Duration D = ∑n i=1di n D = drought duration (months) di = duration of ith drought event n = total number of drought events Frequency F = nm Nm × 100 F = drought frequency (%) nm = number of drought months Nm = total number of months Intensity I = | 1 n ∑n i=1SPEIi | I = drought intensity (−) n = number of drought occurrences in months with SPEI < − 1 SPEIi = SPEI value below the threshold (−1) K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 9 which was slightly reduced to 1012.36 mm for the present reference period. The average annual mean rainfall is expected to increase by 46% and 56% under the optimistic and pessimistic scenarios, respectively (Fig. 5). That is, the average annual mean, maximum, and minimum rainfall values gradually increased in the present, future optimistic, and future pessimistic scenarios. The years with lower or higher rainfall values than normal may experience severe drought or floods, respectively, depending on the magnitude of those values. The risk from such a drought or flood episode depends on the severity of that episode, and the respective impact de­ pends on the intensity of that episode and the location-specific response. Therefore, to understand the location-specific risks, we analysed the spatial variability and changes using baseline reference, future opti­ mistic, and future pessimistic climate scenario data. Spatial variability and change in rainfall and temperature Location-specific changes (one sub-basin to another within the GRB) were analysed separately based on spatial variability trends for annual rainfall and annual mean temperature, and the results over the baseline reference period are shown in Fig. 6 and Fig. 7, respectively. The areas with increasing or decreasing trends are less or more vulnerable, respectively, to water availability risks. The spatial variation of rainfall over the GRB showed that some sub- basins (Middle Godavari, Maner, Manjra, Lower Godavari, Upper God­ avari, Purna, Penganga, and sub-basin of Wainganga and Pranhita) presented a decreasing precipitation trend and higher vulnerability to water availability risk from 1981 to 2019. The remaining sub-basins (Sabari, Indravati, Wardha, and South-Western part of Pravara) showed a positive (increasing) trend for precipitation during this period and, therefore, lower risk for water availability (Fig. 6). Approximately 67% of the GRB area (8 of 12 sub-basins) showed a decreasing rainfall trend, whereas 33% of the area (4 of 12 sub-basins) showed an increasing rainfall trend and less vulnerability to drought occurrence. This is because of increasing temperatures caused by climate change and global warming which will make existing dry areas drier and wet areas wetter.