 NHRDF Red-3 (L-652) Agrifound Light Red N-2-4-1 July–August 2023 17 After transplanting stage (DAT) y At 3-5 DAT: Application of Trichoderma @ 1.25 kg, Pseudomonas 2.5 kg, Bacillus 2.5 kg and Mycorrhiza 250 g per hectare. y Fungicides and insecticides are to be sprayed per litre of water as per need and infection intensity: At 30 DAT: Mancozeb 2.5 g + fipronil 5 SC 1 ml; At 45 DAT: Propiconazole 25% EC 1 ml + carbosulfan 25% EC 2 ml; At 60 DAT: Azoxystrobin 0.5-1 ml y Water soluble fertilizers and micronutrients spray (per litre of water): At 30 and 45 DAT: 19:19:19 @ 5 g and 2 g Grade-IV (Zn 6%, Fe 4%, Mn 1%, Cu 0.5% and B 0.5%). Transplanting The transplanting time of rabi onion varies from November to December in different rabi onion producing states. Rabi onion can be transplanted on flat bed whereas, some farmers also prefer transplanting on raised bed for efficient use of fertilizers through drip irrigation. White grub’s dirty white coloured ‘C’shaped larva enters into the onion main field through farm yard manures (FYM) and compost. Bio-pesticides in liquid form may be applied through drip irrigation or drenching; or fipronil (0.3% granules) 25 kg/ha can be applied into the soil before transplanting to kill larvae. About 50-55 days old seedlings are to be transplanted in the main field at 15 cm × 10 cm spacing. One third top portion of the seedlings is to be cut at the time of transplanting. Onion seedling’s root dipping into solution of fungicide carbendazim 1 g/litre of water and insecticide carbosulfan 2 ml/litre of water is recommended before transplanting to control pest and diseases. The duration of seedlings root dipping varies as per recommendations of State Agricultural Universities, ICAR-Institutes, etc. (15 min- 2 hrs) can be confirmed from the experts. Nutrient management The dose of manures and fertilizer depends upon the soil health and nutrients content so it may be changed as per soil test report and region-to-region. Recommended dose of fertilizers to be applied when nutrient content of soil (kg/ha) is medium. When nutrient content of soil (kg/ha) is extremely low then 50% more dose of recommended dose of fertilizers (RDF) needs to be applied. When nutrient content of soil (kg/ha) is low then 25% more dose of RDF needs to be applied. At the stage of extremely high soil nutrient content, 50% less dose of RDF to be applied and at high soil nutrient content stage, 25% less dose of RDF should be applied. Well rotten organic manure preferably farmyard manure (FYM) or compost @ 25-30 t/ha is recommended at the time of final land preparation or vermicompost @ 10 t/ha can be incorporated one week before transplanting. Neem cake @ 250 kg/ha can be applied in soil before transplanting as preventive measure against nematode infestation. Bio- fertilizers are input containing microorganisms capable of mobilizing and solubilization of nutrients through biological processes. They are less expensive, eco-friendly and sustainable.