 Days required to initiate flowering The summer bending of branches (Table 1) produced early initiation of flowering (24.4 days) than autumn bending (44 days). Early initiation of flowers was also noted with other treatments during summer season of bending. Days required for fruit set Earliness in fruit setting was observed during summer season than autumn season in all the treatments. Fruit set was advanced by 26.2 days during summer bending of branches (42.8 days) than autumn bending (69 days). Pair of new leaves/shootlet at flowering time The data presented in Table 1 showed that pair of new leaves per shootlet at flowering time ranged from 4.2 to 7.00 among the treatments during the season of experiment. The control plant had more pair of new leaves at flowering compared with other treatments. Number of shootlets with flower buds/branch In spite of having more number of shootlets/ branch in summer bending it recorded less number of shootlets with flower buds per branch. During summer bending of branch some of the newly emerged shoots became vegetative instead of reproductive. High temperature with high relative humidity during summer has a deleterious effect on the production of reproductive shoots. If the rainy days continued for 2 to 3 days after bending operation, the newly emerged shootlet made excessive growth and became vegetative. These vegetative shoots should be removed (Table 1). Number of flowers/shootlet It was found that summer season of bending had greater effect in different morphological characters of the plant, but the autumn season of bending had positive effect on fruit yield- attributing characters. The autumn bending of branches (T1) gave maximum number of flowers/ shootlet (7.5), followed by T2, and T3 with 6.0 flowers each per shootlet in the same season (Table 3), whereas summer bending of branches (T1) produced 6.8 flowers/shootlet, followed by T2 (5.7) and T3 (4.8). Number of fruits/shootlet at fruit set stage Number of fruits per shootlet at initial stage Contents Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE was also higher during autumn bending of branches (5.6) than summer bending (4.6). Other treatments also showed similar trend in results in this regard (Table 1). Number of fruits/branch at fruit set stage The maximum number of fruits per branch at fruit set stage (Table 1) was observed during autumn bending of branches (50.4) than summer bending (39.0). Summer bending of branches in T2 (4.0) and T3 (2.0) during autumn season of 2003 (Table 1). Number of fruits/plant at harvest Highest number of fruits per plant at harvest was observed in Tl (251.0), whereas T2 and T3 produced 69.0 and 30.0 fruits per plant at harvest produced maximum number of new shootlets per branch but the fruit set was reduced due to excessive fruit drop during summer season. Production of reproductive shoots was also reduced during summer months.