com Indian Farming 7 March 2023 FIG Approach made organic kiwi fruit venture lucrative among the tribal farmers in Manipur Subhra Saikat Roy*, Samarendra Hazarika and Vinay Kumar Mishra ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Manipur Centre, Imphal, Manipur 795 004 Complex, risky, low-input subsistence farming in the North-eastern hill (NEH) region is characterized by low productivity and profitability. Tribal farmer's social cohesion and aversion to chemical inputs also indicates the prospects of cluster-based organic production of high-value crops. Kiwifruit, an emerging crop in Manipur, is appropriate for organic agriculture. The Purul sub-division of Senapati district in Manipur is bestowed with all sorts of pre-requisites for successful cultivation of kiwifruit. Given this context, ICAR Research Complex for NEH region formed a successful Farmer’s Interest Group (FIG) in Purul (Manipur) under Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) to promote organic kiwifruit. The initiative formed a Farmer’s Interest Group, "Senapati Producers Organization of Organic Kiwifruit (SPOOOK)" and promoted cluster-based organic production of kiwifruit in 6 tribal villages. Additionally, a partnership was formed with the state government to facilitate organic certification. The initiative was successful in improving tribal farmer's understanding for kiwifruit cultivation and significantly increasing their income. Keywords: Farmer’s interest group, Organic kiwifruit, Tribal sub-plan Indian Farming 73 (03): 7-10; March 2023 N OT only increasing crop diversity leads to a larger supply of foods from a wider variety of sources, but it also gives farmers the option to sell surplus production in the market. This, as a consequence, increases the income of agricultural families. It is becoming more widely acknowledged that this tactic is an essential component of environmental sustainable agriculture and enhancing the farm profitability. In addition to crop diversification, cultivating high- value crops as a means of increasing income diversification is gaining momentum. Producers can benefit from a broader range of revenue opportunities and expanded market opportunities if they focus on high value crops. Such benefits are amplified when farmers adopt cluster or group based approach. Kiwifruit, a high value crop, is one of the very few wild fruits which have been commercialized globally. The crop is known for its unique taste and medicinal value. In India, the crop was first introduced to Shimla in 1963; while in North- east India large scale organized cultivation of kiwifruit was started in early 2000s in Arunachal Pradesh. In Manipur, ICAR Research Complex for NEH region initiated small scale demonstration of kiwifruit in Senapati district of Manipur under Tribal Sub-Plan (TSP) from 2012 and within a very short span of time, the crop has emerged as highly profitable in high altitude areas in the state.