 • Developed low cost drip irrigation systems which work efficiently with low energy requirements (LEPA) for adoption in plantation crops in place of micro‐sprinklers. KAU micro‐sprinkler developed by Chalakudy center has tremendous demand in Kerala and Tamil Nadu state. New device requires 0.3 to 1.0 kg/cm2 pressure, less than one HP pump, less clogging susceptibility, more univorm distribution and 50‐60% less cost than conventional micro‐sprinkler systems. This low cost micro irrigation system was proved to be highly effective in homestead farming in Kerala state. Management of rain and other natural sources of water • In hilly and high rainfall areas, technologies have been developed for in‐situ conservation and carry‐over of moisture for succeeding rabi crops. Improvement in hydrothermal regimes has been achieved by use of organic mulches. Water harvesting technology and measures to improve productivity of harvested water has been developed. • Developed technologies for inter and intra‐terrace water harvesting and enhancing the productivity of harvested water in agricultural production systems in hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh. Use of Silpauline lining the ponds has attracted the attention of planners and www.icar.org.in 79 2002‐2007 government departments in Himachal Pradesh, Uttarakhand, Maharashtra and Meghalaya states. • Developed technology of micro level water harvesting (Jalkund) for inter‐terrace water harvesting and its reuse for establishing high value mango and cashew orchards in Konkan region of Maharashtra. Technology is spreading at a very fast rate with the support of Maharashtra state government. • Development technologies for conservation, harvesting and efficient use of available water through natural springs (Kuhls) in rice, maize and wheat based cropping systems; and in integrated farming systems in HP and Uttrakhand states. These technologies increase crop productivity by 15‐20% ensures timely sowing of the crops. Efficient water management in integrated farming systems enhances water productivity from 3.0 to 8.6 Rs/m3. • Developed the resource conservation technologies, which helped enhancing water, nutrient and other input‐use efficiency in maize‐wheat, soybean‐wheat and rice‐wheat systems in sub mountainous Himalayan conditions. Zero tillage in rice‐wheat cropping system along with optimum irrigation schedules enhances crop yield by 10‐17%, ensures timely sowing of wheat and increases water‐use efficiency of the system by 25‐30%. Basic studies on Soil‐water‐plant‐atmospheric‐environment relationships • Determined wate requirement, stage‐wise crop co‐efficient and critical growth stages of 15 cereals, 7 pulses and 5 oilseed crops under different agro‐ecological situations using Lysimeter technique. • In high water‐table areas, contribution of ground water table towards crop evapotranspiration has been quantified and irrigation water requirement is considerably reduced.