 KVKs have a meaningful role in capacity development of FPOs providing technology backstopping, handholding in business incubation etc. Association of FPOs in different states are also being supported by the ICAR Institutes and KVKs. 5.2. Diploma in Agricultural Extension Services for Input Dealers (DAESI) Agri-input dealers, having one of the largest networks globally, are an important source of information related to agricultural inputs and activities to the farming community, besides the supply of inputs and informally the credit. Majority of them do not possess formal agricultural education. In order to improve their competency in agriculture to serve the farmers better as para – extension professionals, National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) has initiated a self-financed “One-year Diploma in Agricultural Extension Services for Input Dealers (DAESI) Program” during the year 2003 with a course fee of Rs. 20, 000. Based on the very positive and encouraging response, the Government decided to extend this programme in all the States. The program is implemented by MANAGE through State Agricultural Management and Extension Training Institutes (SAMETIs), Agricultural Universities (AUs) and KVKs. The Department of Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare incentivize the course fee by 50% and up to Rs. 10,000/- per input dealer. 5.3. Climate-smart extension Climate change has caused many setbacks and demands concerted efforts for solving some of the multifaceted issues spread across several departments and ministries so far as governance is concerned. The sustainability has emerged as major concern and challenge in the wake of its impact on-farm production systems and resource base. Such complex situation demands smart decisions and approach well interwoven with the active participation of researchers, extension practitioners, farmers, and developmental organizations to develop and design the techniques to combat, mitigate and adapt to risks generated due to climate change. Under National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) climate resilient technologies applications were carried out with several institutional reforms and community Indian Agriculture after Independence 346 led interventions. Total 151 climate smart villages (CRVs) were developed that consists of implementing the resilient practices at a scale to cover the entire village in a saturation mode depending on the resource endowments of the farmers with one or several interventions for imparting resilience to the production systems. The number and kind of interventions implemented are largely determined by the resources available, and vulnerability status and involvement of communities. 5.3.1 Promoting climate resilience in agriculture ICAR initiative on Climate Resilient agriculture was scaled up from 121 villages in 2018 to 446 villages in 2020-21.