 Vegetable waste/fruit waste based pig feeds: Vegetable waste based silage was prepared using locally available vegetable wastes namely cabbage, cauliflower, carrot, tomato etc. Feed cost per kg gain was reduced by ` 9.76 and ` 12.69 at 10% and 15% supplementation of vegetable silage by replacing whole concentrate in crossbred finisher pigs. Nutritional strategies for augmenting production: Supplementation of moderate amount of lysine to QPM based diets favourably influenced egg quality in PD- 2 hens. Availability of feed ingredients was surveyed in Palampur (Himachal Pradesh), Agartala (Tripura), Udaipur (Rajasthan) and Mahabunagar (Telangana) for formulating region specific diets for rural poultry germplasm. The highest egg iron concentration was obtained by feeding the hens with 150 mg iron/kg diet along with 70 ppm zinc and 25 ppm copper. Rice- DDGS (15% in diet) depressed body weight of Srinidhi chicks, which could be countered by methionine supplementation at 110% level. Nutrition for health and welfare: A 42 days biological trial conducted to study the effect of graded levels of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) and ochratoxin (OTA) combination indicated no adverse effect on growth performance, immune response and blood biochemical parameters in broiler chicken. Physiology Development of pregnancy-associated glyco- protein (PAG)-based diagnostic assay: A pregnancy- associated glycoproteins-based diagnostic assay was developed at ICAR-NDRI for early detection of pregnancy in bovine. The polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies produced against PAGs were examined for their suitability as diagnostic markers of early pregnancy. Best interacting antibodies were further used for development of ELISA and LFA assay. A proof-of-concept was developed for early diagnosis of pregnancy in bovine. Birth of cloned calves Treatment of cloned embryos with Dickkopf-1: The low live birth rate obtained with cloned embryos limits the application of this technology on a large scale. Studies conducted at ICAR-NDRI revealed that treatment of cloned embryos with Dickkopf-1 improved their developmental competence, quality and live birth rate. Three cloned calves produced using donor cells of an elite bull Mitigation of spermatozoa cryodamages and fertility assessment using different additives: Cryodamage to the spermatozoa occurs invariably during the process of cryopreservation of semen. In order to minimise such injuries during freezing, glutathione (2.5, 5.0 and 10 mM) and alfa-tocopherol (1.0, 3.0 and 5.0 mM) were added as antioxidants and results showed that glutathione at 10 mM concentration had better cryo-protection during freezing and thawing process with respect to sperm motility, HOST and acrosome reactions. Multiplication of Sahiwal cow through multiple ovulation and embryo transfer: Five embryo transfer calves (3 female and 2 male) were born from four Vrindavani recipients, which include twin males due to embryo splitting. The embryo recovery per flushing was 5.