 (c) Areas in group 'C' and 'Z>' —the criterion adopted for the classi- fication of areas in these groups would be the extent of availa- bility of normal amenities of life in the scheduled areas as may be assessed on the basis of the following weightages: 32 1CAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE (i) Communication facilities 20 (ii) Living conditions (a) accommodation 10 (b) nearness to market place 10 (c) electricity, water and sanitation 10 (iii) Education facilities 20 (iv) Medical facilities 10 (v) Working conditions 20 100 Areas which receive less than 50 marks are to be classified as category •D' areas and those with more than 50 marks as category 'C' areas. The Scheduled Areas in the different stages of India will be as speci- fied in Part A of the first schedule to the Consititution of India. The In- stitutes are required to apply the above criteria for the classification of the scheduled areas'falling within their jurisdiction and forward their proposals for such classfication for approval by the Council. Special Allowance The rate of special allowance to be granted to scientists posted in categories 'C', 'D' and '£' stations is Rs. 100, Rs. 150 and Rs. 200 per month respectively. In addition to the special allowance, the scientists would also be entitled to the following types of compensatory benefits : (i) LUMPSUM ALLOWANCE : A lumpsum allowance of Rs. 200 for learning the local dialect. This allowance will be admissible only when a scientist acquires adequate proficiency and passes a written or oral test as may be prescribed. (ii) HOUSE RENT ALLOWANCE (a) In areas where the Central Government employees get free resi- dential accommodation as in the Andamans, the scientists will be entitled to free accommodation. (b) In other places, the Council will hire accommodation at market rent from State/Central Government Authorities and allot to the scientists. For this purpose, they will be required to pay 10 per cent of their pay towards the rent, for the accommodation. (c) Where accommodation cannot be hired from Central/State Government authorities, and where it is necessary to hire private accommodation, the case may be referred to headquarters for consideration on the merits of the individual case. At headquarters these cases will be decided in consultation with Member (Finance). ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 33 (d) Residential accommodation should be constructed on a priority basis in such remote areas and suitable proposals may be for- warded to the Council for consideration. (hi) MEDICAL FACILITIES : The Scientists will be entitled to free medi- cal facilities from the nearest State Goverment Hospital whether managed by District Board or Municipality. (iv) CHILDREN'S EDUCATION : The scientists will be entitled to hostel subsidy and reimbursement of tuition fees as allowed to Central Govern- ment servants.