 One-acre leaves will be sufficient to rear 200 DFL batch. About 1700 sq. ft. space will be required for 200 DFL. One spray of growth hormone Serimore @ one ampule / 50 DFL should be applied at the time of fifth feeding after forth mode for increasing yield and quality of cocoons. One spray of growth hormone Sampoorna @ one ampule / 50 DFL should be applied at the time of 5-10 % sampling of cocoon formation for uniform growth of silkworms. Cocoons should be harvested after five days of cocoon formation. Cocoon harvester machine should be used for harvesting of cocoons for saving the labour. Advisories Related to Post Harvest Management and Value Addition: Sweet Orange: Sweet orange fruits should be kept in cold storage at -6 0C for 90 days to increase its shelf life. Waxing can also be done. Grapes: The fresh fruits should be converted into resins. The fruits can also be kept in cold storage to increase its shelf life. Aonla: Aonla fruits should be processed and converted into value added products like Aonla candy, Aonla pulp, Aonla syrup, Aonla powder, Aonla supari, etc. Pomegranate: Pomegranates should be used to make value added products likeAnardana, Pomegranate juice, etc. Vegetables: Tomatoes should be processed to make tomato ketch up, tomato sauce, etc. Green and red chilli should also be processed ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 314 to make value added products like chilli sauce, red chilli powder, green chilli paste, etc. Cereals and pulses: Sorghum and wheat grains should be stored at below 14 % moisture for long term storage. Improved grain storage bags should be used for storage of wheat, rice, etc. Pulses crops like pigeon pea, chickpea, green gram, black gram should be processed to convert into dal for higher returns. Innovative packaging should be used for fetching more prices in the market. Advisories Related to Farm Mechanization and Soil Water Conservation: Use minimum tillage operations, avoid ploughing for land preparation to protect land from evaporation losses and to conserve the soil moisture. Use BBF planter for sowing of chickpea for in situ moisture conservation. Chickpea crop should be irrigated through sprinkler irrigation at critical stages like flowering and pod filling for increasing yield wherever irrigation is available. Use of reapers / combine harvesters should be preferred for harvesting of crops like wheat, chickpea, safflower, etc. Rabi onion should be sown with CRIDA Tractor drawn Onion Seed Planter to save labour expenses and to achieve more work efficiency. Advisories Related to Farm Women: Farm women should use cycle hoe for intercultural operations in field crops to reduce the drudgery. Use serrated sickle for harvesting of Jowar, Bajra and similar crops which reduces the drudgery of farm women. Shed net farmers may use vegetable transplanter to reduce drudgery in transplanting, time, money & labour cost.