 By providing access to knowledge, technology, and a supportive community, the portal plays a pivotal role in empowering farmers and contributing to the sustainable development of agriculture in India. *Corresponding author e-mail: rajarshi.burman@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 12 March 2024 Indian Farming 13 March 2024 Surface seeding-cum-mulching technique An emerging option to manage crop residue Anil Kumar1* and Gurbachan Singh2 1Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Tarn Taran, Punjab 143 412 2Progressive Farmer, Tarn Taran, Punjab 143 412 Surface seeding cum mulching of wheat is an emerging low-cost ecofriendly technique of managing paddy straw, where paddy harvesting and wheat sowing are done simultaneously. Compared to existing residue managemental options, this method has benefits with respect to weed control, soil health as well as crop productivity along with economic benefits as costly machines and high- power tractors are not required in this technique. Straw management and sowing operation of wheat can be completed with a meagre cost of `650-700 only compared to `2000-2500 per acre for conventional methods. This technique provides complete mulching, which keeps the soil profile moist and saves the crop from terminal heat stress. Moreover, crop resist to lodging as well as withstand against adverse conditions like torrential rain and hailstorms. Besides, this technique reduces dependence on costly herbicide inputs as it ensures mostly weed free crop. Keywords: Crop residue, Mulching, Surface seeding, Wheat T HE Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh had a great contribution in ‘Green Revolution’ and still provide bulk of rice and wheat in the national food basket. Inclusion of high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat in cultivation practice results in production of bulk crop residues in above mentioned states. The wheat and basmati straw is generally managed by the farmers and utilized as animals feed, whereas paddy straw is mostly burned owing to several reasons. As we know, open field straw burning has harmful environmental effects including air pollution and greenhouse gases emissions besides, huge nutrient loss from soil as well as health deterioration of humans. The nutrient losses from soil and gases released owing to burning of paddy straw are highlighted in various reports by the experts. Moreover, rice straw burning is spreading rapidly at an alarming rate in other paddy growing Indian states, which is a matter of great concern. Management of paddy straw has remained a big challenge for farmers especially for small and marginal farmers. Factors like short time window between paddy harvesting to wheat sowing, costly machinery, small and marginal farmers, non-availability of labour, high cost in removing residues, etc. forces the farmers to burn paddy straw. Therefore, it is necessary to develop appropriate strategies for in-situ crop residue management to achieve 'zero burning'.