 The extract of plant possesses insecticidal properties. Tender leaves contain a pentose glycoside of cyanidin. The roots are employed against leprosy; they are also reported to be used as an antidote for snake bite. The plant is used for urinary problems. A decoction of the bark is used as an emmenagogue; that of the leaves for stomach ache, veneral diseases and as a blood purifier. The leaves are also applied to carbuncles, eczema and itches. The leaf juice is applied for sores. The latex is applied for ulcers. The seed oil is used in lamps and also for leprosy. A bushy gregarious shrub, 0.9-1.8 m in height, native to Brazil, but naturalised almost throughout India. Leaves palmetely 3-5-lobed, 20 cm long and equally wide, at first brown, shining, later turning green: margins of leaves, petiole and leaf blade covered with glandular hairs; flowers dark red, crimson or purplish, in glandular corymbose cymes; capsules, 9 mm long, 3-lobed, truncate at both ends; seeds greyish red with a caruncle. Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2713 Use of latex of stem of dimri (Ficus hispida) to relieve toothache Volume 2, supplement I, page 170 Dimri Bengali: dumoor, kakodumar; Gujarati: dhedaumaro, jangliangir; Hindi: daduri; dagurin, gobla, kagsha, katgularia; Kannada: adavi atti, kadatti; Malayalam: erumanakku, peyatti; Marathi: bhokada, bokria, kalaumber, kharoti; Tamil: peyatti, sonatti; Telugu: bodamamidi, brammadi. Ficus hispida Linn. f. Immature fruits eaten in curries, they are, however, likely to cause giddiness. They are considered tonic, lactagogue and emetic. The wood is soft and lights, and bark contains tannin. The leaves are used for poulticing boils. Leaves and twigs of the tree are lopped for cattle and elephant fodder. A moderate-sized tree or shrub with large opposite leaves, 4-12 in. long, and obovoid or turbinate fruits, 1 in. long, borne in pairs or clusters on leafless, often trailing, branchlets. The tree is common throughout the outer Himalayas from Chenab river eastwards to Bengal, central and south India, and Andaman Islands. It occurs in shaddy places and along ravines, and flowers and fruits practically throughout the year. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2712 Use of balibhainso (Flacourtia ramantchi) shrub juice to control dysentery Volume 2, supplement I, page 170 Balibhainso Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: benchi, baichi, binja, katai; Gujarati: kankod; Hindi: bilangra, kanju; Kannada: hattarimullu, hunmunki; Marathi: bhekal, kaker, paker; Tamil: katukala, sottaikala; Telugu: kandregu Governor's plum, Madagascar plum Flacourtia ramantchi L'Herit. The fruits are appetising and digestive.