 People who avoid eggs and those who have gluten allergy can celebrate their happy moment with this nutritious eggless gluten-free cake. No addition of artificial colours or preservatives and high nutritive value provide it a special place among cakes. Cost of production is ₹ 128/kg (at an output of 100 kg/day). to understand the nutrient uptake by seed. The 5% zinc nutrient loaded (T3) sachet trial outperformed by giving the highest mean weight of biomass of 0.672 g as compared to control biomass of 0.579 g (T1) and positive control 0.592 g (T2) treatments and the same was confirmed with the elemental analysis where T3 treatment containing blackgram seeds absorbed more zinc nutrient (2.23 mg) compared to T1 (1.68 g) and T2 (1.94 g). Development of 100 percent Cotton Engineered Structure fabric for face mask application: The 100% cotton double fabric structure was used to prepare multi layered (3, 4 and 5 layer) fabric face masks with high breathability and enhanced particle filtration efficiency. The produced double fabric has two different structures in a diagonal direction in a single repeat. Out of two structures, one is a highly floated structure and hence the air permeability was good and the other structure was a compact structure with high air resistance. Due to simultaneous compact and open structure in the preceding layers, the air movement was diverted and transferred through the open structure hence the air permeability was maintained. But the particles which have travelled along with air can be filtered by means of a compact fabric structure that is present in the preceding layer of the fabric. Three layered face mask had about 41% particle filtration efficiency with good breathability (Air resistance: 19.91 Pa/cm2). Germination analysis of plant growth (a) 1st day, (b) 3rd Day, (c) 6th day, (d) 8th day Seed germination and nutrient absorption elemental analysis. Germinated seed dry weight 100% Cotton Engineered Structure fabric face mask Engineered cotton fabric face mask with Electrospunnanofibre based replaceable cartridge Mask with sleeve Cartridge being inserted Mask with cartridge + 5% Zn mat and T4, 10% PVA+ 10% Zn mat with 5 replications. Fifteen seeds were directly placed on a zinc sulphate nutrient-loaded sachet which was kept on weighed filter paper. The fabric was moistened with 5 ml distilled water every day, ensuring that the sachets were wetted fully. The germination period was 8 days. The rate of germination was calculated based on the dry weight (biomass) of the sample and elemental analysis Post-harvest Management and Value-addition icar annual report 2022-23 137 An electrospun nanofibre based replaceable cartridge was developed for use in above cotton fabric face masks to improve particle filtration efficiency. The electrospun nanofibre coated nonwoven fabric was sandwiched with two layers of uncoated nonwoven fabric, which can be inserted with the multi-layer face mask as a replaceable filter media.