03 mg QE/g of dry matter respectively. The IC50 value (concentration for 50% inhibition of free radicals) of 129.93 μg/mL denotes good antioxidant potential of the material. Therefore, this residual plant biomass can also be utilized as a prominent antioxidant agent Indian Horticulture 52 Farmers’ perspective The value addition process will be useful to the farmers in terms of utilizing their produce completely and increase in profitability. When a farmer grows this crop only for root purpose, their utility get restricted as the residual material is treated like waste. But the grower can take added benefit by using these materials by various means. The utility of biorefinery concept lies here. If the important bioactive compounds can be converted into suitable value-added products, the demand of these residual materials will increase among industrial sector. As for example, the major withanolide present in the leaf and stem i.e., withaferin A has profuse scope of application in Ayurveda, pharmaceutical and nutraceutical sector due to diverse health benefit effects. Through proper technological intervention, this chemical compound can be isolated in pure form or enriched extract can be prepared for development of suitable formulations. For that purpose, supply of raw materials to the production site is of prime importance where the growers or farmers can take the lead. Similarly, these materials are also suitable Fig. 3. Different value-added products prepared from residual biomass of W. somnifera having diverse applications for bioethanol production, composting and development of mushroom growing media. Farmers can supply the residual materials to industry according to the demand and need, provided appropriate technology is available with respective end users. This implies that by application of appropriate biorefinery, it is possible to create a niche market for this residual biomass of W. somnifera which will be useful to the farmers to sell their produced material and get extra income rather leaving unutilized. SUMMARY The use of W. somnifera roots is an age-old practice. But some studies clearly suggest the usefulness of utilizing the above ground portion of this plant. If appropriate and user-friendly technology can be developed for conversion of this plant material into suitable high value products having commercial importance, the acceptability of this materials will boost up among the industries or manufacturers. Eventually the demand will be increased and farmers may be motivated to sell their produce at good price. Besides selling the roots, they can have extra income from these residual materials. The diverse array of applications of this material has potential to create different opportunities that would be beneficial to industry, farmers and end users as well.