 Promote active participation of all stakeholders in the agro- tourism sector. Corporate sector need to join hands with the linedepartments for commercial development of agro-tourism. a. Promote active participation of all stakeholders including experts, local communities, hoteliers, tour operators and government agencies. b. Organize agro-eco-tourism in a more integrated way by using the local resources and local folklore in the farms to attract the tourists. c. Establish Agro Rural Tourism (ART) centers to protect ecology by avoiding plastics, promoting greenery, supporting biodiversity and conserving water bodies to benefit agro-tourism sector. d. Establish Agro-Technology Parks (e.g. Mango orchard based bee keeping farms or greenhouse based floriculture or olericulture) for quality production on commercial scale which may also serve as agro- tourism destinations. e. Develop horti Silvi-pastoral or agri- horti-silvi culture system to boost agro-eco tourism. 10. Promoting rural non- farm employment sector Creation of non- farm employment opportunities within the rural areas seems to be somewhat dormant as of now. Only 5 % of labour force in the 20-24 age category have vocational skills compared with as much as 96% for South Korea. Provide appropriate assistance to small scale sector in rural areas in terms of information base, availability of technology, technology transfer, improved credit availability and infra- structural and marketing support. a. Prioritize skill training programmes to sufficiently reflect the market demand by roping in industries as one of the collaborators. b. Simplify licensing procedures, laws and regulations for developing small scale enterprises in rural areas. c. Ensure rural works programmes achieving the twin objectives of creation of rural infrastructure and additional incomes. d. More than subsidies and welfare schemes, ensure entitlements (raw materials, credit and markets) of rural enterprises as an industry. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 167 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 11. Leveraging Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (PMFBY) Crop and livestock insurance in Gujarat has not attracted farmers sufficiently. Awareness among farmers about the benefits of PMFBY is being promoted by the State government machinery. The modalities of Crop Cutting Experiments (CCEs) are cumbersome. The man-power involved in conducting CCEs is also grossly insufficient. a. Prioritize crop and livestock insurance an integral part of farming among all sections of farming community. b. Strong need of awareness creation about insurance products. c. Encourage PPP mode in agricultural insurance and provide private insurers the same level of subsidy on par with government agencies. d. Promote group insurance for small and marginal farmers under FPOs. a.