 150kg Nitrogen, 80 kg Phosphorus and 75 kg Potash be applied. Cabbage: Following varieties should be selected for sowing during October- November- Golden Acre, Pusa Synthetic, Harirani, Ganesh Gol, Pusa Drumhead, Late drumhead. Sowing should be completed in September-October at the rate of 400-500 gram per hectare. 150kg Nitrogen, 80 kg Phosphorus and 75 kg Potash be applied. Onion: Following varieties are recommended for cultivation in rabi season in Chhattisgarh- Agrifound Dark Red, N-53, Bheema Super, Bheema Dark Red, Bheema shakti, Bheema shrubhra, Bheema Shweta. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 340 Sowing should be completed by 15th November; seed should be applied at the rate of 8-10 kg / ha. Vegetable Pea: Suitable varieties for Chhattisagrh- Arkel, Jawahar Matar-1, Jawahar Matar-2, Azad Matar -3, Pant sbji Matar-3. Sowing should be completed in October-November at the rate of 80-100 kg / ha. Chilli: Following varieties are recommended- Pusa Jwala, Pusa Sadabahar, Indira mirch-1, Jawahar Mirch-218. Sowing should be completed in September-October at the rate of 500 grams / ha for normal and 200 grams /ha for hybrids. Potato: Following varieties are suitable for cultivation- Kufri Khyati, Kufri Pukhraj, Kufri Surya, Kufri Badsahah, Kufri Leema, Kufri Jawahar, Kufri Arun, Kufri Pushkar, Kufri Chipsona-1, Kufri Chipsona-2, Kufri Chipsona-3, Kufri Fryo and Kufri Frysona. For the control of Early blight, apply Copper Oxychloride or Mancozeb @ 3 gram / lr. of water, spray should be repeated after 10-15 days intervals. For late blight, apply Metlaxyl M.Z. @ 1 gram per litre of water and repeat the same after 10-15 days intervals 3 times. Livestock and Fisheries: Animal Husbandry: Animal Vaccinations Pre-Winter needs to be done. Vaccination against Foot and Mouth Disease in Cattle, Buffalo, Sheep, Goat and Pigs is to be repeated since it is given pre-monsoon and prewinter, twice in a year. Sheep and Goats to be vaccinated against Enterotoxaemia, Goat Pox and PPR disease during early months of ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 341 Rabi season say Early Sept. to Oct. For poultry, vaccination schedule is to be followed as per age of the birds regardless of season. Artificial Insemination needs to be continued. For this, farmers should check their animals for signs of heat, especially during winter when the symptoms of heat are sometimes obscure. It is always advised to contact veterinary officer or para veterinary worker and get the animal inseminated at home instead of taking them to veterinary hospital, this becomes more relevant due to the current Covid Pandemic situation. To maintain productivity and improve immune status of animals, farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral minute - 60g/ day in adult dairy animals and 20-30g in small ruminants. Try to deworm animals using broad spectrum dewormer as per advice of veterinary doctor & remove ecto-parasites using safe insecticide sprays, one to two weeks prior to vaccination.