 In fact, the role of some of the leading science and education entities of India such as IITs, IIMs, and IISc as well as governing bodies such as MHRD, ICAR, UGC, etc. has been possible primarily because of the functional autonomy given to them to assess and manoeuvre their role in creating science and educational leaders that shaped India’s current leadership position in some of the frontier areas such as agricultural research, space technology, IT, drug discovery, etc. The freedom encompasses all the domains such as academic and research services, financial management, recruitment and engagements with the global science and education leaders. Our system has evolved as an adaptive system that can drive India's science and technology growth of India in a highly competitive global scenario. We have been able to reorient our poise time and again to stay relevant to challenges and our national priorities. The government should continue to help higher education to grow by providing operational autonomy, financial resources as well as policy support to be able to achieve the goal of making India the Vishwa Guru. SKUST-K has consistently improved its ranking over the years to become the 6th Best State Agricultural University accredited as Grade A by ICAR and has been graded BAND EXCELLENT under the Atal Innovation ranking of the Ministry of Education. Vice Chancellor, Sher-e-Kashmir University of Agricultural Science and Technology of Kashmir, Srinagar, Jammu and Kashmir 190025 Email: drnazirahmad@gmail.com OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 45 T he role of business incubators cannot be overemphasised for those entrepreneurs who are striving to give life to innovative ideas, bring world-class products and services to customers, scale up and sustain their ventures. The growth of any incubator and startup ecosystem depends on building the awareness of the value that they add to such innovative enterprises. As per a recent study report by Tracxn, one of the renowned research firms in the US, there are over 450 incubators in India (as of June 2021). Most of the incubators are in the Technology driven space Upskilling agri-graduates in entrepreneurship: Role of agri incubators and about 30 of them cater to agriculture and food sector. Business incubators: ICAR’s initiatives In India, there are several institutions that support the establishment of business and technology incubators. It is a well- known fact that ICAR has been the pioneer in the establishment of Agri Business Incubators (ABIs) across ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities, under the National Agriculture Innovation Project (NAIP).