 The recommendations which emerged for strengthening of biotechnology research are: i) Greater emphasis be laid on identification and mapping of OTL for abiotic stresses and for productivity traits, and assembling of QTL with diverse mechanisms through MAS in important crops. ii) Strengthening of research on the development of transgenic and to establish a single central facility for undertaking bio-safety and IPR issues. iii) Strengthening of research in functional genomics and bioinformatics with a major focus on annotating gene functions and utilization of RNA technology for nutritional enhancement. Seed Science & Technology: The establishment of Community Seed Banks for conservation of local genetic material and interlinking the Banks with seed business (especially in the north east) should be a periodical exercise. Novel local seed systems and alternative seed delivery models should be strengthened. A system of bringing the popular local / traditional / farmer varieties in the formal seed chain needs to be considered. In view of the shifts in the weather patterns, old varieties need to be evaluated under different changing weather conditions now, instead of discarding. Modern methods of seed quality assessment need to be adopted for higher precision and uniformity, using advanced technologies and appropriate instruments. Reporting of ‘seed vigor statuses should be made compulsory in case of revalidated seed lots for ensuring satisfactory field performance of a seed lot. Integrated Pest Management (IPM): Development of compounds affecting different targets like ryanodine receptor modulators, GABA gated chloride channels, uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation inhibition of ATP syntheses, intervening mitochondrial metabolic modulations etc. offer scope for judicial rotation of chemistries depriving target pest to develop resistance to pesticides. Awareness cum training program on Rugose Spiraling Whitefly (RSW) may be provided to the Customs officers working at International Airports/Sea Ports/ Land Frontiers. 3 Effort should be made to adopt only recommended varieties and avoid monoculture to prevent emergence of new pathogens/new races of the pathogens and disease epidemics. Climate change impact on plant health should be given more emphasis. In this regard two diseases specially mentioned are Cercospora disease and Spot blotch in wheat. Certain disease like smut of wheat and powdery mildew diseases earlier considered to be of minor importance has become major ones, needs special attention. Domestic and International quarantine regulatory measures should be strengthened. Development of rapid and easily accessible diagnostic kits for major pathogens and time series studies on pathogen population dynamics in relation to climate change should be conducted. Collaborative research programs on RNA mediated insect pest management with the international laboratories must be taken up.