 [Action: All DDGs] Agenda 3: Filling up of all vacant posts in the scientific, technical and administrative categories on priority IARI, New Delhi presented the agenda. It was decided to take up the matter separately. [Action: DDG (CS)] 30 Agenda 4: ICAR-KVK-ICAR vacant post in TNAU- Filling up vacancies TNAU, Coimbatore presented the agenda for filling up the ICAR post. It was discussed in Agenda 1. Agenda 5: Institution of National Award for Best Extension Worker CCSHAU, Hisar mentioned that on the pattern of Best Teacher Award sponsored by ICAR in SAUs, Best Extension Scientist Award be instituted to recognize and motivate outstanding Extension Workers. The award may carry the same amount of money as that of best teacher award. The proposal for this purpose will be made by education division in XIIth plan. [Action: ADG (Coord.)] Agenda 6: Notification of the revised guidelines for promotion of scientists under care advancement schemes in SAUs CCSHAU, Hisar presented the agenda. It was informed that everything has been devised thoroughly and the proposal has been sent for the approval of DOPT. Agenda 7: Early release of arrears of 6th pay scales to the scientist working in the ICAR/KVKs/State schemes CCSHAU, Hisar presented the agenda. The point was discussed. Agenda 8: Release of 80% ICAR share of arrears of 6th Central Pay Commission’s recommendations in respect of Scientists/ Staff working in the All India Coordinated Research Projects GBPUAT, Pantnagar presented the agenda emphasizing upon the release of 80% ICAR share of arrears of 6th pay commission in respect of scientists working in AICRPs. It was decided to look into the matter. [Action: All DDGs] Agenda 9: Release of ICAR share of arrears of 6th Central Pay Commission’s recommendations in respect of Scientists/ Staff working in the KVKs GBPUAT, Pantnagar presented the agenda. It was informed that the request has been made for Non-Plan from Plan programme contingency. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 10: Revision of Pay Scale of KVK staff UBKV, Cooch Behar presented the agenda emphasizing that the ICAR may take a decision that the SMSs and Project Coordinators should be treated as Assistant Professor and Associate professor respectively. It was decided to review the matter in XIIth plan. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 11: Creation of scientific talent pool at national level RSVSKVV, Gwalior presented the agenda. It was informed that under Post Doctoral Fellowship Programme the provision has already been made. Agenda 12: Capacity building for institutes as well as individuals AAU, Anand mentioned that capacity building for institutes as well as individuals can be achieved by collaborative work/projects with some well known reputed institute of nation as well as abroad. The issue was discussed under agenda 7.1.