 Sweet tamarind is harvested ripe and usually consumed fresh, while the sour tamarind is processed Research into a range of value-added products. Some of the most common products produced from tamarind include juice, pulp, powder, chutney, pickles, sauces, sugar coated candies and tamarind kernel powder (TKP). TKP is an important sizing material for the jute and textile industry and tamarind seeds are gaining importance as a rich source of proteins and valuable amino acids. India is the world’s largest producer of tamarind; it is estimated that 300,000 tonnes are produced annually. It is also an exporter of tamarind, mainly to Europe and Arab countries. Recently, there has been an increased interest in ﬁnding alternative, potentially high-value cash crops to improve the income of small farmers who are currently depending upon growing and selling traditional cereal crops. Tamarind has a wide range of genetic variation in India, which could facilitate identification of superior and desirable types. It has innumerable types, categorized according to the phenotype and genetic characteristics contributing Close view of tamarind tree and grower Indian Horticulture 22 to diverse land races available in wild. Being a highly cross-pollinated crop, and propagated from time immemorial by seeds, considerable amount of variability exists in the trees growing in different regions. Selection is the crop improvement method widely adopted in tamarind and varieties are being released using this method in India. The consumer preference is for traits such as broad, brown pulp with good pulp recovery which is currently not being met by the few released varieties. The present study was undertaken keeping in view the emerging importance of the crop with the objective of identifying superior quality combined with higher pulp recovery. In this context, a survey was undertaken in Tumkur district of Karnataka to characterize the variability available for pod and tree characters and identify superior trees using horticultural traits. In situ analysis of the samples collected from this region was done at ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticulture Research, Bengaluru and an elite tamarind variety was identified having broad pods with good pulp colour and recovery. Farmer’s tamarind selection “Lakshamana” emerged from participatory breeding research having significantly better traits compared to local tamarind. Lakshamana This is an accession identified in Nandihalli village of Tumkur district of Karnataka, having coordinates latitude 13.52° N, Longitude-76.74° E and 860 m MSL growing in field of Shri Laxmannappa. It was found to be superior with better yield and pod characters compared to local and registered mean annual yield (4 years from 2016-2020) of 251.4 kg/tree as against 165.0 kg/tree in local trees. Table 1. Economic traits of promising selection Lakshamana Sl. No. Trait Lakshamana 1. Fruiting season Feb-March 2. Fruit bearing position Terminal 3.