 Both nZnO and bZnO facilitated profusion of biofilm genes (BGs) among soil bacterial communities especially at higher Zn levels (500 and 1000 mg/kg Zn). In general, nZnO favored enhancement of genes involved in exopolysaccharide biosynthesis and attachment, while bZnO favoured genes related to capsule formation, chemotaxis and biofilm dispersion. Development of biosensors for detection of fish pathogenic bacteria and hazardous metalloids in selected water bodies: Several nanoparticles including gold and silver nanoparticles were synthesized to check their suitability to enhance the signalling efficiency of the developed Molecular Recognition Element (MRE). A sensor was developed for the efficient detection of Cr (VI) in water with a linearity range 100 ppb to 1 ppm. The UV-Vis absorbance intensities were gradually increased with increasing concentration of Cr (VI). The sensor is able to detect Cr (VI) up to 100 ppb which is the permissible limit notified by US EPA. It does not show any cross-reactivity when checked with other heavy metals like Cr (III), Pb, As, Hg, Ba, Cd and ions (SO4 2-, CO3 2-, HCO3 -). The sensor has been incorporated into a hand-held prototype device. Another aptamer- based biosensor was developed for the detection of fish pathogenic bacteria Aeromonas veronii. The sensor is able to specifically detect Aeromonas veronii and shows Basic and Strategic Research icar annual report 2022-23 173 no cross-reactivity with other bacteria when tested against A. hydrophila (AH), Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) and Klebsiella pneumoniae (KP). The sensor is able to detect the bacterial cell up to a concentration of 106 CFU/mL. Development of biological filter for safe waste water irrigation exploiting microbial bioremediation trait: The four bio filters were designed and prototypes were developed. The bio filters using different packing materials performed differently, where high surface area plastic media (FRP) showed highest COD removal and gravel performed well for sulphate and chromium removal during batch study. During continuous operational mode, treatment efficiency of graphite bio filter was highest for COD and sulphate through out study. However, at the given loading rate, all the reactors performed nearly equally for heavy metals, except for Manganese (Mn). The order of Mn removal efficiency was Gravel> Graphite> FRP. The characterization of biofilter packing material before and after treatment was done. Comparison of plots showed shift in XRD peaks and also few new formed peaks suggesting the adsorption of heavy metals and its precipitates. FESEM revealed the unevenly distributed presence of heavy metals over the surface of packing material.