 Moreover, with well- developed filtration technology, greater control over disease outbreaks and water quality parameters, higher production is possible in this system. Research is also in progress for developing models for maturation and grow-out systems for marine finfish and shrimps. Intensive culture technology in the raceway system was also developed for high-value rainbow trout for the temperate hilly terrain of Jammu& Kashmir, Himachal Pradesh, Indian Agriculture after Independence 194 Uttarakhand, etc. by ICAR-DCFR. Production levels of 500-700 kg raceway-1 in 10 months culture period have been obtained in raceways of 30-45 m2 at a stocking density of 40-100 fingerlings m-2 and provision of formulated pellet feed. 2.2.6. Fish feed and nutrition Fish nutrition research in India received increased attention only in the 1980s, focusing on understanding the dietary requirements of cultured species for the production of balanced supplementary feed. Besides the ICAR institutes, the Fisheries Colleges under the SAUs/CAUs and several other laboratories including at Delhi University, Aligarh Muslim University, etc. undertake fish nutrition studies in India. The research largely involved the use of different plant and animal protein sources. The studies also covered the aspects of non-conventional feed ingredients, additives, antinutritional factors, digestive enzymes, probiotics/gut microflora, etc. Several formulations have been developed for varied life stages of important finfishes of freshwater, brackishwater and marine origin and, freshwater prawns and shrimps. Fish feeds for carps, magur and freshwater prawn had been formulated and released by ICAR-CIFA in the 1990s. Recently ICAR-CIFRI has developed and commercialized a formulated feed known as CIFRI CageGrow for cage culture in inland waters. The broodfish diet CIFABROODTM developed by ICAR-CIFA in 2009 and commercialized in 2013 showed its efficiency in advancing gonad growth and maturation, facilitating early spawning and increasing spawning response. In 2020, the institute has also developed carp feed fortified with nanoparticles for larvae and grow- out stages and released for commercial production. Floating, sinking and slow-sinking forms of commercial feeds in varied pellet sizes are now available in the market. Shrimp being a high-value species, at its initial stage of aquaculture development in the country, it necessitated the import of formulated feeds. Subsequently, several shrimp feed mills were established resulting in self-sufficiency. Highly cost-effective, indigenous shrimp feed technology was later developed and commercialized by ICAR-CIBA for both tiger shrimp and Pacific white shrimp. VanamiPlus, a cost-effective shrimp feed, was developed by using indigenous ingredient resources. Other important feeds include extruded floating and slow- sinking feed for brood and grow-out culture of mullet, milkfish and seabass.