 RESILIENCE: The overall goal of the RESILIENCE project is to improve agricultural productivity and the adaptive capacity and livelihoods of smallholders to climate and economic changes, by building resilience and strengthening the market value chains in the states of Odisha and Assam in India. IWMI, as one of the partners, carried out socio-economic vulnerability assessment and agro-ecosystem mapping (in partnership with ICAR- NRRI in Odisha) to assess smallholder vulnerability in face of climate change and identify suitable climate smart agriculture (CSA) technologies. In total 1627 households were surveyed with sample size of 825 in Odisha and 802 in Assam (partnership with AAU, Jorhat and MSSRF). Socio-economic vulnerability analysis was carried out to analyse the most suitable interventions that can reduce the vulnerability. IWMI has also started field pilots in collaboration with ICAR-NRRI to test integrated water resource management practices and improving water-use efficiency at two pilot sites in Cuttack District. Drip irrigation, soil moisture-based irrigation using ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 67 chameleon Sensors and alternated-wetting and dry (AWD) have been setup for both demonstration and evaluation of water productive. As part of project, IWMI will also provide flood and drought monitoring for advisory services in the pilot areas. Climate-Smart Solarization of India’s Irrigation Economy IWMI is partnering with International Solar Alliance (ISA); Indian Council for Agricultural Research (ICAR); World Bank; Tata Trusts; CGIAR Research Program on Water, Land and Ecosystems (WLE); CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS); Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation (SDC); Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit (GIZ); Aga Khan Rural Support Programme, India (AKRSP-I); Collectives for Integrated Livelihood Initiatives (CInI); Gujarat Energy Research and Management Institute (GERMI); and Gujarat Urja Vikas Nigam Limited (GUVNL) in this important area of solar irrigation. A Policy Consultation on Solar Irrigation- Solarization of Agriculture- risks and opportunities was jointly organized by ICAR-ISA-IWMI on 26th June 2019, at NASC Complex, New Delhi. IWMI and ICAR-CAZRI made presentations at the IWMI-ICAR Special Thematic Session on “Solarization of Agriculture” arranged by ISA at the 22nd ISA SUN Meet in Delhi on 22nd August and this provided an excellent opportunity to share our experiences with other member countries of ISA. In December 2019, IWMI partnered with the World Bank and NITI Aayog to co-organize a policy consultation on Energy-Water-Agriculture Nexus in New Delhi. IWMI’s SPaRC (Solar Power as Remunerative Crop) pilot in Dhundi attracted a lot of media and policy attention and inspired the Government of Gujarat’s Suryashakti Kisan Yojana (SKY)– for promoting grid-connected solar pumps. As part of SKY, more than 3,500 farmers have already been solarized.