 March 2024 [1 Indian Farming 78 March 2024 Pseudo stem rot Tillers bend down and hang Panicle blight Wilting symptoms This disease was addressed through prophylactic application of 2% ICAR-NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf5) in cowdung slurry as spray and drench or single basal application of ICAR-NBAIR-Trichoderma harzianum (100 g) and Glomus fasciculatum (50 g) per plant along with 2% ICAR-NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf5) and ICAR-NBAIR-Bacilus. subtilis (Bs45) spray at monthly intervals during summer months. Ex-trainee of ICAR-KVK, Idukki, Mr. Manikandan belonging to Senapathy village in Idukki district has four acres of land and is cultivating small cardamom. Fusarium disease was affected by the disease intensity (DI) level in his farm and he attempted to suppress the disease below DI level through numerous fungicides, but remained unsuccessful. From 2016 until now, he has Clump rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents by farmer Mr. Srinivasan been connected to the KVK and adopted ICAR-NBAIR technology. As a result, he controlled the disease and saves his annual cost of cultivation of `1,50,000. He now harvests good produce on his farm to the extent possible. SUMMARY Small cardamom, one of the most valued spice crops, popularly known as green gold, is a native of the evergreen rainforests of Western Ghats. Cardamom hill reserves within the cardamom hills of Idukki district, Kerala account for 70% of the cardemon production of India. Existing climatic situation is challenging for the profitable cultivation of cardamom in Cardamom hill reserves of Kerala as it is congenial for occurrence and incidence of insect pests and diseases, which Z { Set 7 Clump rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents by farmer Mr. Srinivasan Panicle blight This disease was addressed through prophylactic application of 2% ICAR-NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf5) in cowdung slurry as spray and drench or single basal application of ICAR-NBAIR-Trichoderma harzianum (100 g) and Glomus fasciculatum (50 g) per plant along with 2% ICAR-NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (Pf5) and ICAR-NBAIR-Bacilus. subtilis (Bs45) spray at monthly intervals during summer months. Ex-trainee of ICAR-KVK, Idukki, Mr. Manikandan belonging to Senapathy village in Idukki district has four acres of land and is cultivating small cardamom. Fusarium disease was affected by the disease intensity (DI) level in his farm and he attempted to suppress the disease below DI level through numerous fungicides, but remained unsuccessful. From 2016 until now, he has i oe ’ 2 ay . Zi = Wilting symptoms been connected to the KVK and adopted ICAR-NBAIR technology. As a result, he controlled the disease and saves his annual cost of cultivation of 71,50,000. He now harvests good produce on his farm to the extent possible. SUMMARY Small cardamom, one of the most valued spice crops, popularly known as green gold, is a native of the evergreen rainforests of Western Ghats.