 It occurs in the sub- alpine and alpine zones of western Himalayas, from Chitral and Hazara to Kashmir between 7000 to 12000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 306 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 8 Acorus calamus Sweet flag H-Bach B-Bach M-Vekhand G-Vekhand Tel-Vasa T-Vasambu Kan-Bajegida Mal-Vavambu The dry rhizomes contain 1.5 to 3.5% yellow aromatic volatile oil. It has mellow odour resembling that of Patchouli. Indian oil has much higher asarone (C12H16O8) content than commercial oil. It also contains small amount of sesquiterpenes alcohols. The root contain glucoside named acorin. Dried rhizome gives beneficial results in dyspepsia and chronic diarrhoea. It possesses ematic and antispasmodic properties. It produces beneficial results in case of dyspepsia and chronic diarrhoea. Powdered rhizome also possesses insecticidal properties and useful against bed bugs, moths, lice etc It is semi-aquatic perennial herb with a creeping and much branched aromatic rhizome. It is found wild and cultivated throughout India and Sri Lanka, ascending to 6000 feet in the Himalayas. It is plentiful in the marshy tracts of Kashmir and Sirmoor, in Manipur and Naga Hills. 9 Adhatoda vasica - H-Arusha B-Bakas G-Alduso Tel-Adasaramu T-Adadodai Kan-Adusoge Mal-Atalotakann The leaves and roots are anti-spasmodic and efficacious in cough. The leaves contain very small amount of essential oil, crystalline acid and white crystalline alkaloid vasicine. Useful in asthama, in combination with beladona, insecticial and antiseptic properties attributed to vasicine. Useful as green manure in paddy cultivation Small gregarious evergreen shrub, occurring through out the plains of India and in sub-Himalayan tracts, ascending up to 4000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 307 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 10 Aegle marmelos Bael tree H-Bel H-Bel M-Bel G-Bil Tel-Maredu T-Vilvam Mal-Vilvam Kan-Bilpatre Unripe fruit is beneficial in diarrhoea and dysentery. The ripe fruit is sweet, aromatic and cooling. The marmalosin, furocoumarin are active constituents. The root bark and some times the stem bark is administered in intermittent fever. Gummy mucous substance surrounding the seeds serve as good adhesive. The marmelosin acts as a laxative and diuretic. It causes slight lowering of perspiration and some sleeplessness. Bark contains umberiferon and other coumarins, different marmalosin obtained from fruits. A deciduous tree, 20–25 feet in height and 3–4 feet in girth with straight sharp axillary thorns and trifoliate aromatic leaves. The trees are found wild in the sub-Himalayan tract, in central and South India. It is also cultivated in North India.