 The depth of seeding, and the spacing between the rows and within the row can be adjusted. It can cover 0.2 ha in a day. The bullock- drawn seed drill has steel framework and a seed box. It has three to five tynes. It can cover 0.8 to 1.2 ha in a day. The tractor-mounted seed drill has 6 to 11 tynes, and costs Rs 18,500. It can cover 1 ha in 2 hr. In these seed- drills the steel seed-pipes can be changed to suit the seeds of different sizes. The implements can be fabricated with local materials, and this sturdy implement needs little maintenance. Any repair can be attended locally. Advantages are the followings: (1) By using this implement the seed rate can be reduced. For example, for dryland paddy the seed rate can be reduced to 12 kg/acre instead of normal 30 kg Shri G. Somasundaram, Arangottai, Tiruchirapalli. Chennai, (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2954 Multi-utility bullock-driven seed- cum-fertilizer drill adopted by farmers. For lsq. m a population of 60 seeds is sufficient instead of 120 seeds. (2) By using this seed-drill the seed rate can be reduced greately for example, for groundnut and castor by 10%, and for paddy, bajra, gingelly, ragi, cholam, blackgram, Echinocloa (banyard millet) and foxtail millet (Setaria italica) by 50%, (3) The bullock- drawn seed drill can cover 3 - 4 acres instead of 0.5 acre by conventional sowing. The tractor-drawn seed-drill can easily cover 6 - 8 acres instead of 1 acre in conventional sowing. (4) The cost of seeding is cheaper. (5) Crops raised through this method of seeding will come for harvest 15 days earlier due to quick maturity and exposure to good sunlight. Keywords: seed-drill, tynes, seed rate, seed pipe, sandy soil The innovator, Shri Ramesh Chandra Gurjara, a handicapped, has developed a multi-utility bullock-driven flexible agricultural equipment, which can be used for ploughing, inter-cropping, seed drill-cum-fertilizer dispersant and can also be used for levelling the land and weeding purpose. The multipurpose device comprises plough, seeding pipe, hopper, wheels, gears, hydraulic lifter and metallic chassis. Ploughing teeth and sowing pipe (vavaniu) are attached behind the chassis. The plough and sow teeth are adjustable width-wise to facilitate intercropping. Three wheels support the total chassis. Height of the plough and sow pipe can be adjusted by hydraulic lifter attached with the system. Mechanical braking has been attached for controlling the device. There is also provision for sitting on Shri Ramesh Chandra Gurjar Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No.