 Animal cures within 4-5 days. Keywords: chitchita, meuri,bichuwa, cut place Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Lakhpat Singh, S/o Shri Babu Singh, village Nawada (Ban), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sher Singh, S/o Shri Desh Raj Singh, Pachhomi, Faridpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3142 Treatment of cut place in animal body by using vinegar and red chilli Cattle owners of Bishesharpur village of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of red chilli (25 g) and vinegar (50 g). This paste is applied on the cut place for curing. Keywords: vinegar, cut place, red chilli Shri Chote Lai, S/o Shri Mangali Prasad, Bishesharpur, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3143 Treatment of cut in the body part by katira 3144 Treatment of cut place in animals with lime 3145 Use of guma flowers for treatment of cut in body parts of animal 3146 Treatment of animal injury with salt and vinegar 3147 Treatment of animal injury by using miuri and akash bel {Cuscuta reflexa) About 10 g katira is immersed in water and paste is prepared. This paste is applied on the cut or injured part. This practice is followed in village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh). Key words: katira, cut Lime (chuna) is applied on the cut place of animal and it is bandaged. Lime-water is sprinkled over it, which cures the wound. It is being followed in village Khiraka of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: cut, lime Paste of 8-10 guma flowers is prepared and applied on the cut part with a bandage. Farmers of village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh observed curing of the cut part by this practice. Keywords: guma flower, cut For the treatment of animal injury, people of village Gotia in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use salt and vinegar. In this treatment 5 g salt is mixed with 50 ml vinegar and applied on the injured part twice daily. Keywords: injury, animal, salt, vinegar People of village Gotia (Larpur) in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use miuri and akash bel for the treatment of animal injury. About 50 g miuri and 100 g akash bel are boiled. After cooling, it is applied on the injury and bandaged. Keywords: injury, miuri, akash bel Shri Surendra Pal, S.O Liladhar, Gotia (Larpur), dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bhup Ram, S/o Shri Sohan Lai, village Khiraka, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, village Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Sita Ram, S/o Shri Budh Sen, Gotia (Larpur), village Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Hira Lai, S/o Shri Nukta Prasad, Gotia (Larpur), village Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Cuscuta reflexa Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No.