 Wheat breeding for early heat tolerance with IIWBR and major wheat centres through a project on “scaling breeding and agronomic management for increasing wheat productivity and adaptation to climate change causing rising temperatures and water scarcity in South Asia.” ii. Development of rust resistant, agronomically superior climate resilient wheat varieties and sharing with all wheat breeding centres of India. iii. Continuation of Genomic Selection research for breeding climate resilient wheat in collaboration with IIWBR and other wheat centres. iv. Continuation of HarvestPlus project for developing biofortified (Zinc and Iron rich) wheat varieties in collaboration with IIWBR and other wheat centres. v. With support from SFSA (Syngenta Foundation for Sustainable Agriculture) a new project, Improved Maize for Tropical ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 67 Asia (IMTA) was initiated. vi. IMIC-Asia II having ICAR-AICRP members including IIMR and SAUs are partners. vii. Next phase of abiotic stress tolerant maize for Asia (ATMA by GIZ, Germany) through a project on Climate-resilient maize for Asia (CRMA) with IIMR and other partners. viii. USAID and BMGF approved phase III of CSISA, running from December 2015 to November 2020. Building on the momentum and achievements of phases I and II, phase III CSISA will work to scale up innovations, strengthen local capacity and expand markets to support the widespread adoption of climate-resilient agricultural technologies in partnership with the national and developmental partners and key private sector actors. ix. Sustainable and Resilient Farming Systems Intensification in eastern IGP (ACIAR supported and in collaboration with ICAR, SAUs, Department of Agriculture in Bihar and West Bengal, NGOs, and Australian Advanced Institutions). x. Sustainable intensification opportunities for rainfed systems of Karnataka (in collaboration with ICRISAT, SAUs and Government of Karnataka). xi. Long-term research on sustainable intensification and nitrogen use efficiency. xii. Farming systems analysis and optimizing resource allocations using FarmDesign Modeling (in collaboration with ICAR- IIFSR, CSSRI, ICAR-RCER, Wageningen University). xiii. Understanding Genotype x Environment x Management interactions for breaking yield barriers in maize and wheat systems. xiv. Modelling for quantification of N2O emission from agriculture and developing new emission factors (contributing to IPCC factors). xv. Generating hard evidence on CSAPs and adaptation-mitigation co-benefit potential of agriculture technologies and practices in maize and wheat based farming systems. xvi. Additional support to ICAR scientists will be provided in the form of capacity development ‘short courses’ for ICAR on all CIMMYT activities. xvii. Crop insurance program (with ICAR, MCNCFC, and insurance industry; funded by CCAFS). xviii. Climate-smart village program (with ICAR, SAU and others; funded by CCAFS, USAID and ITC). xix.