 This priming induced endogenous defence mechanisms before plants were exposed to stress, thus preventing oxidative damage and protecting plant physiological functions. Tran- scriptomic analysis further highlighted its role in modulating genes linked to water transport, oxidative stress response, and cellular orga- nization. The authors suggest that the selected timings and the adopted RNA-seq data analysis techniques, by either monitoring dif- ferentially expressed genes or groups of coregulated genes, can be a valid, future approach to provide further information about biostimu- lant mode of action. Similarly, Brown et al. (2024) demonstrated that chitosan-fulvic acid nanoparticles (Ch-FANPs) enhance drought toler- ance in maize by activating antioxidant enzyme activities, including ascorbate peroxidase (APX) and catalase (CAT), and reducing lipid per- oxidation and hydrogen peroxide (H₂O₂) accumulation. This treatment also induced the expression of key drought-responsive transcription factors involved in signaling pathways and water-use efficiency, offer- ing a comprehensive mechanism for improved resilience under water deficit conditions. Salinity stress, which disrupts ionic balance and water uptake, was addressed by Islam et al. (2024) through the appli- cation of glycine betaine (GB) in Indian mustard (Brassica juncea). GB improved osmotic regulation and cellular ionic homeostasis, reduced oxidative damage, and increased growth, biomass, and nutrient uptake even under high salt concentrations. Meanwhile, heavy metal toxicity due to cadmium (Cd) was mitigated in grapevine seedlings using smoke solutions (SS) derived from vineyard pruning waste, as reported by Yagcı et al. (2024). The application of 0.5% SS enhanced antioxi- dant defences by upregulating the activity of enzymes such as super- oxide dismutase (SOD), CAT, and APX, reducing malondialdehyde (MDA, marker of lipid peroxidation) levels, and preserving photosyn- thetic efficiency and membrane integrity. The study showed that transforming organic plant waste into smoke solutions provides an eco-friendly approach to boosting the sustainability of viticulture and adding value to waste materials. However, future studies are needed to investigate the interactions between smoke solutions and heavy metals and their effects on grapevine yield. A study by Daler and Kaya (2024) explored the use of alpha-lipoic acid as a foliar treatment to reduce oxidative damage in two grapevine rootstocks with different levels of drought tolerance: the drought-tolerant ‘1103 P’ and the drought-sensitive ‘3309 C’. Treatments with alpha-lipoic acid signifi- cantly improved physiological parameters, such as chlorophyll content, stomatal conductance, and antioxidant enzyme activities (SOD, CAT, APX), while decreasing electrolyte leakage and MDA levels under drought conditions.