 CPCRI arecanut varieties Motinagar, Swarnmangla, Nalbari, Shatamangla All the three regions Nutrient and water management in Arecanut Arecanut responds to application of nutrients and water. The crop cannot be grown without water. The decrease in water resources is a concern in the cultivation of arecanut. A study conducted at ICAR-CPCRI has indicated that adoption of drip irrigation will save water and increase the yield of arecanut. Further application of ferilizer along with drip irrigation improves the use efficiency of both water and nutrients and increases the yield. Thus savings in input and increased yield will help the farmer in doubling his income. Plantation Crops: Cocoa Improved cocoa varieties Cocoa improvement through selection and hybridization strategies for high dry bean yield, industrial value, tolerance to biotic and abiotic stress resulted in development of eight improved varieties of cocoa. Economic aspects: The improved varieties are capable of producing a minimum of 2 kg to a maximum of 4 kg dry bean yield per tree per year in an average management conditions under coconut and arecanut based cropping systems with medium canopy.1200-1800 kg dry bean yield/ ha will provide an additional income of Rs. 2.4- 3.6 lakhs with Rs.200/ kg dry bean rates. CPCRI Cocoa varieties: VTLCS-1 (Vittal Cocoa Selection- 1), VTLCS-2 (Vittal Cocoa Selection- 2), VTLCH-5 (Vittal Cocoa Hybrid- 5) Highlands of Idukki, Kottayam and Ernakulam. 274 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Plantation Crops: Rubber High yielding rubber hybrids: Clones developed by Rubber Board for planting in different agro-climatic regions and tolerant to all major diseases of rubber (Abnormal leaf fall, Colletotrichum leaf spot and Corynespora leaf disease). Root Trainer propogation technology: Rubber Board pioneered the customization and standardization of protocol for the root trainer technique in developing planting materials of rubber to enable mass production of good quality plants in nurseries RRII 105, RRII 400 Series clones, clones RRII 414 and RRII 430 are tolerant to all major diseases of rubber. RRII 208: This cold-tolerant, hybrid clone was successfully developed and released in 2016 for exclusive cultivation in the cold-prone areas The midlands of almost all districts. Highest area in districts such as Kottayam, Ernakulam, P a t h a n a m t h i t t a , M a l a p p u r a m , Kannur, Kollam and Thiruvanathapuram. Minimum tillage and planting in small pits Experiments have shown that in deep soils, rubber can be planted in small pits with minimum tillage operations. By adopting this technique, cost of initial plantation management can be reduced. Apart from reducing the cost, this technique will reduce soil disturbance and thus reduce the extent of fertile soil lost through erosion.