 • DDG (CS) or his nominee* Chairman • Assistant Director General (Concerned Crop) Member • Assistant Director General (Seeds) Member • Project Director (DSR) Member • Director of Research of Host Institute/SAU Member • Agriculture Commissioner (Department of Agriculture) Member • One Director of Agriculture (State Government) Member • One representative of seed organization (NSC, SSC) Member • Representative of crop-based processing/manufacturing industry Member • One representative of the private seed agency Member • Two eminent scientists Member • Project Director/Project Coordinator* Member-Secretary *Essential members; a quorum of six members needs to be present • The Principal investigators of different research disciplines shall assist the Committee in the capacity of resource persons and would not have voting right. • In crops where PD and PC are separate, only PC will be the Member-Secretary. b. Process of Variety Identification 1. Eligibility for identification (i) The candidate variety will be eligible for identification on fulfilling the following minimum requirements. (a) Three years yield data from coordinated trials under given ecology (rainfed/irrigated etc.) are required. (b) At least two years data are a must on disease and pest reaction at the hot spot/artificial epiphytotic conditions under the coordinated project. (c) At least one year data on the agronomic performance with special reference to response to dates of sowing/planting/population density/fertilizer/irrigation levels are a must. These data will be only for the purpose of determining adaptive features of the variety. (ii) Availability of enough pure seed is required for sowing a minimum of five hectares (except sugarcane). In case of non-availability of specified quantity, the identification process may be postponed to the later stage, at the most by one year. (iii) Availability of pure/nucleus seed of high quality is desired with the breeder for producing quality seed in at least 0.5 hectare. The nucleus seed should have been produced as has been prescribed for each crop. 2. Data compilation (i) The PD/PC Unit will provide to the breeder duly processed data of the third year of the test entries at least 20 days prior to workshop to enable the breeder for preparation of identification proposal and formal approval from the competent authority of the involved institution(s). (ii) The data from three years of coordinated testing of the candidate variety shall be compiled by the concerned breeder/institution/organization/company in the prescribed proforma (Annexure-II), and should be submitted to PD/PC seven days prior to workshop. 11 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 3. Presentation of the proposal (i) Concerned breeder of the variety shall present the identification proposal to the Committee, highlighting characteristics of the candidate variety and other related issues. (ii) The PIs may be asked to clarify specific points by the Committee.