 in well drained soils with proper arrangements to drain out excess water Incase of Bhendi, take up control measures for pest and diseases when the rains stop 169 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Advisories for Livestock Livestock Problem Advisories Dairy animals/ Pigs/ Goats Protection during rains Heavy rainfall and high humidity predisposes mastitis in crossbred cows hence keep dairy shed clean and dry. Use post milking teat dip cup to prevent mastitis. Don’ts feed mouldy feed and fodder which causes detrimental effects on health of animals. i.e. black spots on stored dry fodder, unacceptable odour of oil cakes. In rainy season, dairy animals suffer with tick infestation. 5 to 10% ticks present on body of animals and 90 to 95 % present in the shed. Hence spray ectoparasiticide i.e., cypermethrin or deltamethrin 2-4% on animals’ body and also in the shed. Use flamegun to burn floor and walls of shed every 10 to 15 days. Hybrid Napier perennial fodder CO-5 performance is excellent in in Goa climatic condition. Farmer can get 300 to 350 metric tons of green fodder yield with six to seven cutting a year. Farmer can go for plantation in Kharif. Sololy grazing of dairy animals on lush greens may cause digestive disturbance and comparatively low fat in milk hence always daily offer dry fodder along with greens. Avoid water leakages in the shed which causes slippery floor. Apply lime in and around shed which causes disinfection and keep floor dry which helps to rest animals on the floor. 170 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Advisories for Poultry Poultry Management Problem With the arrival of monsoon, litter and manure management is a key aspect for good flock health Provide curtains at both sides of poultry house or add overhang of 4-5ft to avoid direct entry of rains into shed Regular and frequent recking of litter material is advised to make it dry. Then caked up litter should be disposed in a far-off place from farm Replenish with new litter if litter moisture is very high or treat it with slaked lime@ 1kg for every 10 sq mt area Clean feeder and waterer daily to check mould growth. Provide clean drinking water or use chlorinated drinking water@ 2g bleaching powder for 1000lt of water The feed storage should be regularly checked for moulds and fungus infestation. Toxin binder may be provided in feed formulation especially in duck feed High energy source such as fat @5% may be added in feed Reduction in day length hamper egg production in layers.