 The organism has been isolated from many diseased animals but not characterized at molecular level to ascertain the diversity of microbial population in India. Out of the total 41 S. equi isolates, 9 isolates had novel genomic constellations that have not been reported earlier. Phylogenic relationship of Indian Burkholderia mallei strains: Genetic diversity of Indian Burkholderia mallei strains isolated from glanders affected equines was investigated. Phylogeny revealed that recent isolates circulating in India were closely related to each other. B. mallei originating from Uttar Pradesh was closely related to isolates obtained from Himachal Pradesh (Ghaziabad/ Mandi- 3595/3855, Baghpat/Kangra- 4365/3932, Auraiya/Solan-4517/3081), Maharashtra (Ghaziabad/ Buldhana- 4508/4600) and New Delhi (Kasganj/ Mongalpuri- 3701/4629, Kasganj/Vijay Vihar- 3703/ 4638). The present findings and surveillance data suggested that Uttar Pradesh is the most glanders prone area. Cross neutralization of wild type and Delta strains of SARS-CoV-2 from Hisar (India): Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) has rapidly evolved to generate several antigenic variants. These variants have raised concerns whether pre-existing immunity to vaccination or prior infection would be able to protect against the newly emerging SARS-CoV-2 variants or not. SARS-CoV-2 were isolated from the COVID-19 confirmed patients in the beginning of the first (April/May 2020) and second (April/May 2021) wave of COVID-19 in India (Hisar, Haryana). Upon complete nucleotide sequencing, the viruses were found genetically related with wild-type (WT) and Delta variants of SARS- CoV-2, respectively. The Delta variant of SARS-CoV-2 produced a rapid cytopathic effect (24–36 h as compared to 48–72 h in WT), had bigger plaque size and a shorter life cycle (~6 h as compared to the ~8 h in WT). Also, the Delta variant achieved peak viral titers within 24 h as compared to the 48 h in WT. These evidences suggested that Delta variant replicates significantly faster than WT SARS-CoV-2. The virus neutralization experiments indicated that antibodies elicited by vaccination are more efficacious in neutralizing WT variant in comparison to the Delta variant. Pig Sero-positivity of JEV in pigs: Seasonal distribution of JE sero-positivity in pigs was evaluated in Assam. More than 3200 field serum samples from nine JEV endemic districts of Assam were screened for detection of JEV antibodies and the highest sero-positivity (~9%) of JEV antibodies were recorded in samples collected during June–July (monsoon season). Most prevalent mosquito vectors identified were Culex tritaeniorhynchus, Cx. Quinquefasciatus, Cx. whitmorei, Mansonia spp. and Cx. gelidus. Porcine circovirus type-II and porcine parvovirus: LAMP assay based diagnostic kits were developed for detection of porcine circovirus type-II (PCV-2) and porcine parvovirus (PPV).