 Always use fresh water (do not store water for 4 to 5 days) and pour from afternoon when the relative humidity of air should not Table 3. Optimal range of leaf macronutrient concentrations for capsicum under protected cultivation Macronutrient % in dry weight Micronutrient (ppm or mg/ kg dry weight) Nitrogen (N) 3.0–4.5 Iron (Fe) 60–300 Phosphorus (P) 0.30–0.60 Manganese (Mn) 30–150 Potassium (K) 3.0–7.5 Zinc (Zn) 20–100 Calcium (Ca) 1.0–2.5 Copper (Cu) 6–25 Magnesium (Mg) 0.35–0.90 Boron (B) 25–80 Indian Horticulture 8 fruit weight is 180-190 g. The next grade fruits may have 3-4 lobes with average fruit weight of 150-160 g followed by ‘B’ grade with 2-3 lobes fruit with average fruit weight of 120-50 g. Grade ‘C’ fruits are with conical fruit shapes or 1-2 lobes and small in size with average fruit weight of 90-100 g per fruit. A+ and A grade fruits after proper packing and proper clearing sold to high market and ‘B’ and ‘C’ grade fruits are sold to the local markets. Physiological disorders Conditions of high relative humidity (e.g. 85%) in a greenhouse can lead to disorders, such as poor or incomplete pollination, sunburn, fruit cracking and red fruit. Disease and management The major pests and diseases, their symptoms and their management in capsicum are given below. Thrips Symptoms: Thrips cause upward curling of leaves, sucks sap and reduce leaf growth, plant growth, yield and market value of produce. It also reduces leaf area and hinders absorption of nutrients and water by the plants. Increased infestation leads to blackening and drying of leaves and irregular fruit bearing. Management: Remove affected plant parts including leaves, flowers and fruits. Keep the plots clean by removing all the dropped plant parts. Spray acephate (1.5 g/L) or Imidacloprid (0.5 ml/L). Mites Symptoms: Young larvae and adults feed on leaves, bud and fruits, suck sap from plant parts which in turn causes downward curling of leaves. The size of leaf, fruit and plants gets reduced, affecting the market value of the produce. This pest infestation increases with increased temperature coupled with high humidity. Management: Remove the pest damaged plant parts including leaves, flowers and fruits and spray dicofol (2 ml/L) or wettable sulphur (2 ml/L) or abamectin (0.5 ml/L) or ecomite or chlorophenapyr (1 ml/L). Aphids Symptoms: Nymphs and adult aphids suck sap from leaf veins and younger leaves resulting in reduced plant growth and decrease in yield. Its infestation not only causes curling of leaves but also spreads viral diseases. Management: Keep a close watch on the plants at regular intervals for aphids’ infestation. Spray imidacloprid (0.5ml/L) or thiomethoxam (0.5g/L) or dimethoate (2ml/L). Use reflective mulches and apply weed control. Fruit borer Symptoms: Fruit borers are very active during night.