 In addition, CABI (Centre for Agriculture and Biosciences International), FAO (Food and Agriculture Organization), AVRDC (World Vegetable Centre), NACA (Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific), APAARI (Asia-Pacific Association of Agriculture Research Institutions), UN-CAPSA (Centre for Alleviation of Poverty through Sustainable Agriculture), APCAEM (Asian and Pacific Centre for Agricultural Engineering and Machinery) and ISTA (International Seed Testing Association) are the other agencies with whom ICAR has meaningful collaborations. The MoUs and Work Plans generally cover research in prioritized areas of agriculture and allied sector to address specific national problems, study visits and training of scientists, exchange of technical knowledge, supply of germplasm and capacity building. During the last five years, over 1688 Scientists/science leaders were deputed abroad under the foreign collaborative programmes. One of the highlights of international collaboration in the field of agriculture was the signing of MOUs on 16th October 2016 during BRICS Summit hosted by India in Goa for the establishment of BRICS-Agriculture Research Platform with its coordination unit in India. This platform enables information and knowledge sharing between the BRICS nations. Figure 1. MoUs of ICAR/DARE across continents viii Two other landmark achievements beyond borders being our strategic partnership in the establishment of Advanced Centre for Agricultural Research and Education (ACARE) in Myanmar and Afghan National Agricultural Science and Technology University (ANASTU) in Kandahar, Afghanistan. India assisted in the establishment of laboratories, and developed modules for faculty development and course curricula for agricultural sciences. These global footprints have proven India’s strength in global working for human resource development and institution building. Besides, the DARE/ICAR has also aligned its programs for South-South Cooperation enabling international cooperation through India-Africa Forum and also ASEAN-India programs. In 2017, India hosted the ASEAN India Agriculture Ministers’ Meeting in New Delhi where our Action Plan (2017-20) was agreed upon and signed for cooperation. In 2015, India hosted the India-Africa Forum Summit in New Delhi where several strategic partnerships for agriculture were established. DARE/ICAR is an important and active partner in promoting collaboration in agricultural research and education in the SAARC region. For instance, the ICAR Institutes are involved in training and capacity building in the region in specified aspects of agriculture, dairy and fisheries. Besides, DARE/ ICAR enables research collaboration through the Institutional mechanisms of BIMSTEC (Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi- Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation) and G-20 nations through G-20 Meeting of Chief Agricultural Scientists (MACS).