 To address these challenges of rainfed agriculture, the Government during 1969-74 emphasized on the participation of dryland farmers in the agricultural development process and in response to this, ICAR launched AICRP for Dryland Agriculture (AICRPDA) in collaboration with the Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA) in 1970-71. In 1976, the Operational Research Project (ORP) was introduced for technology assessment, refinement and transfer. In April 1985, the Project Directorate was upgraded to Central Research Institute or Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) to undertake basic and strategic research while adaptive research continued with AICRPDA. The institute has developed 75 location specific doable dryland technologies/practices such as in situ and ex situ rain water harvesting and conservation, alternate and efficient cropping systems, integrated nutrient management, drought tolerant varieties etc. and are integrated in to package of practices in the states where drylands are common and have been disseminated through KVKs/SAUs. Also identified 46 climate resilient varieties of rainfed crops to cope with delayed onset of monsoon in various agroclimatic zones in 15 states and also demonstrated Real-Time Contingency Plans (RTCPs) to manage weather aberrations in cluster villages in 23 districts. Dryland technologies have been integrated in to National schemes/programme such as the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA), National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA), Rashtriya Krishi Vikas Yojana (RKVY), Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY), National Rural Livelihoods Mission (NRLM) etc. and at various state level programmes/schemes. Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 275 2.7. Climate resilient agriculture In India, the estimated agricultural production loss in 2030 due to climate change will be over US$7 billion severely affecting the income of 10% of the population. This can be reduced by 80%, if cost-effective climate resilience measures are implemented (ECA 2009). Rainfed crops are likely to be worst hit by climate change because of the limited options for coping with variability of rainfall and temperature. To meet the challenges of sustaining domestic food production in the face of changing climate and to generate information on adaptation and mitigation in agriculture, ICAR launched a flagship network project on National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) in 2011. The project was launched to conduct research on climate change, demonstrate resilient technologies and build capacity of farmers and other stakeholders. The project is implemented through components viz. strategic research, technology demonstration and dissemination and capacity building in 151 clusters of villages in each one of the identified climatically vulnerable districts to demonstrate proven technologies and enhance adaptive capacity of farmers.