3%) is tasty and most popular way to consume royal jelly as food. One teaspoon mixture contains about 100–300 mg of royal jelly. In Asia, it is widely used in beverage industry. Some vitamin supplements and fruit juices are also enriched with freeze dried royal jelly. Queen bee Queen cage Queen cell cap Grafting needle Different tools required in royal jelly production Indian Farming 20 April 2023 In India, royal jelly is used in treating diseases since ancient time. The major health benefits are its anti-inflammatory effects, reduction of heart disease risk by impacting cholesterol level, wound healing and skin repair, lowers the blood pressure, regulates blood sugar by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation, antioxidant properties support healthy brain function, provide anti-aging effects, enhance healthy immune system, hair growth, treats certain symptoms of menopause etc. But, it should not be used by asthma or allergic patient, pregnant or breast-feeding women without any medical advice. In medicine industry, it is mainly used for stimulatory purposes. It is also used in cosmetic industry to prepare creams. Market Studies conducted at Central Bee Research and Training Institute (CBRTI), Pune, College of Pharmacy and CSIR-National Chemical Laboratory, Pune confirm that royal jelly produced by honey bees that gather pollen from flowers of mustard, coconut and multi-flora variants are of top international quality. The quality of Indian royal jelly is better than the royal jelly produced in Thailand and China and almost equal to Italian royal jelly which is considered as the best quality in the world. China is the world largest producer and exporter of royal jelly and is supplying more than 90% of the global market. Japan imports over 400 metric tonnes royal jelly and holds first rank amongst importers. In India, number of apiarists is more than 2 lakhs but not even 5% are trained in royal jelly production. Even the Indian brands are not using domestically produced royal jelly, they import and repack it ( Table 1). Table 1. Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) imposed International Organization for Standardization (ISO) standard for royal jelly in India (2019) Parameter (% by mass) ISO permissible limit Moisture 62–68.5 10 hydroxy-2- decenoic acid 1.4 Protein 11–18 Total sugar 7–18 Glucose 2–9 Total lipid 2–8 Though people of developed countries are more conscious about health from a longer period but from last few decades health awareness has increased among people of developing countries like India. So, Indian bee-keeper has large market domestically and globally for royal jelly. A large amount of royal jelly is sold from the apiary in natural state because purchaser prefers unaltered naturalness. In local market, it is sold approximately at `50,000/kg. SUMMARY Royal jelly is a secretion of 5–12 days old worker bee. It is rich source of protein which contains all the essential amino acid for humans.