 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 150 Automatic pump and dripper testing facility are operated by the SCADA SCADA with software RS VIEW 32 in which animated screens of testing set-up can be created with control buttons animals and gave about 10-15% greater area coverage in field operations in comparison to the local yoke. Single- double- and three-row wedge plough, increase sizes of bakhar, MB plough and cultivators matching to draught capacity of the animals were given to farmers for use. They reported that on an average about 25% increased area coverage was obtained by them using matching implements. The ORP trials on use of donkeys for light field operations at Raichur Centre showed that a pair of donkeys weighing between 165 and 180 kg/pair could do the field job of a medium pair of bullocks. The average speed of working in field operation was about 3 kmph. A donkey could easily transport a pay load of about 0.5 tonne in donkey cart and 6-7 passengers in donkey tonga to a distance of about 5-6 km at one stretch without rest. An improved gear drive system for operation of animals in rotary mode for operating an electric generator and many other agro-processing equipment has been developed under an ad-hoc scheme at BHU, Varanasi. The efficiency of this system is very high as compared to the existing rotary units available in the market. The system is being extensively evaluated. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE ENGINEERING Irrigation Equipment and System Testing Facilities An automated testing facility for both pumps and drippers has been designed and installed at CIAE, Bhopal. The pump testing set-up includes Programmable Logic Controller (PLC), pressure transmitter for both suction and delivery pressures, discharge sensor with auto control valves, torque-sensor-cum-transmitter, speed sensor etc. for automatic measurement of various parameters. The dripper testing includes 25 tipping buckets with electronic counter for discharge measurement, PLC for automation, differential pressure transmitter across the filter, absolute pressure transmitter for measuring inlet pressure, submersible pump (0.25hp), pump regulating drive for changing rpm of the pump to maintain set pressure in the inlet. These two systems are operated by Supervisory Control and Data Acquisition (SCADA) using software RS VIEW 32. The SCADA acquires the data from the testing set-ups through PLC in the form of 4-20 mA signal received from the sensor- cum-transmitters. Historical trends and real trends of each measuring parameter in the system are plotted in real time using SCADA. Data acquired through automation are analyzed in MS EXCEL package. The system has Ethernet card facility to assess the information through LAN or Internet etc. Automation of Surge Flow Irrigation System in Vertisols A study was carried at the research farm of CIAE, Bhopal with different combinations of stream sizes (1.5, 2 lps), cycle times (5, 10, 15 min.) and cycle ratios (0.25, 0.50, 0.75).