 Value added products from brined jackfruit like Nippattu and Undalakalu (supplemented with sprouted fingermillet flour) was also standardized and promoted through above mentioned two women entrepreneurs and other SHGs in the district. Number of Technologies No. of Farmers participated TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 117 Integrated Farming System enable farmer to earn ` 60,000/month from 2.4 ha land Shri Govindraj, S/o Hanumiah, hails from Dandenahalli village of Magadi Talluk in Ramanagara district, Karnataka has now become role model for other farmers. He has adopted integrated farming system at his farm with the technical support from KVK, Magadi, Ramanagara on his 6 acres farm. Earlier, he cultivated finger millet, sunflower and used to earn around ` 1.5 lakh/ year. Under the guidance of KVK, Ramanagara he began cultivating integrated improved varieties of different crops. He has introduced new improved varieties of finger millet (MR-1and MR- 6) red gram (BRG-1 and BRG-2) field bean (HA-4) and soybean (KBS-23). He also strengthened his livestock component by planting fodder cuttings such as Co-3, Co-4 and Chaya. Besides, he adopted labour and input saving practices like use of herbicides, seed drill for ragi sowing, IPM practices in vegetables and azolla production. Effective utilization of all these resources helped him to earn ` 3.50 lakh from poultry followed by banana (` 1.50 lakh), dairy (` 0.82 lakh), tomato (` 0.60 lakh), and finger millet (` 0.50 lakh) during the year. With the diversification of crops and integration of livetock his earnings have now reached more than ` 7 lakh/year from the same piece of land. Hi tech tuberose cultivation enhanced farmer’s income Shri Thangarasu, a 62 year-old progressive farmer, of village Kuvagam, Ariyalur, Tamil Nadu has 10 acres of land. He started cultivating tuberose under the technical guidance of the KVK, Ariyalur, Tamil Nadu. He cultivated an improved tuberose variety Prajwal released in one acre. The selected field was ploughed thoroughly by chisel plough (once), disk plough (once) and cultivator (four times) and then 10 tonnes of FYM, 500 kg single super phosphate, 800g of Azospirillum, 800g of phosphobacteria, 1 kg of Trichoderma viridi along with FYM 50 kg and neem cake 100 kg were applied before ploughing. Tuberose corns (300 kg) treated with Azospirillum, Phosphobacteria, Pseudomonas, Nematicide and Trichoderma viridi were sown 45 cm × 25 cm apart with polythene mulching techniques to control weeds and facilitate soil moisture conservation. The expenditure incurred for polythene mulching, fertilizer, pesticide, flower harvesting, irrigation, labour etc. was ` 60,000. An average of 30-35 kg of flower yield was harvested every day and sold in the nearby flower market at Kumbakonam with average price of ` 50/kg. However, the demand for tuberose was as high as ` 400/kg during marriage seasons.