 Local Purchase Committee with 2-3 members may be constituted and the powers of urgent purchases of store items to a maximum extent of ` 20000 (Rupees twenty thousand only) at a time be delegated to Krishi Vigyan Kendra. 23. As per Rule-212 of General Financial Rules 2005, an Audit Utilization Certificate, both in respect of the main account and Revolving Fund account, for each Krishi Vigyan Kendra has to be submitted by the host organization to the Zonal Project Directorate immediately after closure of the financial year. In this context, Krishi Vigyan Kendras should refer to Finance Ministry’s website (www.finmin.nic.in) for further details. 24. In view of the rapid increase in number of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and their activities, strengthening of Agricultural Extension Division at Indian Council of Agricultural Research Head quarters and Zonal Project Directorates becomes a necessity for effective monitoring and evaluation. Accordingly, required additional manpower has been proposed, besides filling up of the vacant posts in Agricultural Extension Division and Zonal Project Directorates expeditiously. 25. Sectoral designation of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, viz. Pashu Vigyan Kendra, Mathsya Vigyan Kendra, etc should not be allowed as Krishi Vigyan Kendras have to work on an Integrated Farming System mode and farmers as well as other stakeholders have to be provided technology backstopping rather in a holistic manner. 26. Each Krishi Vigyan Kendra should prepare a strategic plan for its activities in the district, by delineating available resources and the expected outputs for each plan period. 27. The name of Krishi Vigyan Kendra should be called in English as Agriculture Science Centre. 28. The rules, regulations and guidelines for implementing Krishi Vigyan Kendras, as recommended by the Committee in the Krishi Vigyan Kendra Management Guidelines should be strictly followed. There should not be any deviation in this regard while implementing the mandate of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, irrespective of the variable rules and regulations of the host organizations. xvi Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 29. The Committee is of the view that for implementing new guidelines and have additional support for staff, contingency and infrastructure, all Krishi Vigyan Kendras established so far will have to sign a new Memorandum of Understanding as given in the guidelines. Accordingly, for implementing the suggested new management guidelines, all Krishi Vigyan Kendras be asked to submit new Memorandum of Understanding while receiving sanction from Indian Council of Agricultural Research under the XII Plan. 30. The Committee recommends that after acceptance of the report by the competent authority, this document should be published as operational manual for use of Krishi Vigyan Kendra system and should be provided to all the administration and development departments in the district.