 Subsequently, the spot on the fruit is scratched slightly with the help of a knife. If the spot is superficial and not deep-seated, the fruit will remain healthy. Such fruits are bagged with the help of cloth. Otherwise, Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and if the spot is found deep-seated, the fruit is likely to be infested with butterfly and bagging with the cloth will not save the fruit. This practice is very simple requiring little skill on the part of the farmers but immensely helpful in detecting and checking infestation of butterfly in pomegranate fruit. This practice is common in Dauda village of Uderana panchayat of Bhaderwah tehsil of district Doda in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: black spot, scratching by knife, bagging by cloth Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2489 Use of bamboo drip irrigation for plantation crops It is mainly used for watering the plantation crops in Khasi hill of Meghalaya. It is particularly suitable to the conditions of water scarcity and in the soil with poor water holding capacity. The idea of diverting water from upper reaches of hill top to the lower reaches through gravity flow. Gravity flow is fully utilized in this drip irrigation system. This diverted water is conveyed through bamboo channel sections to the lower reaches of hill side. Such channel sections convey water efficiently at the rate of 18- 20 litres/minute or even more, over a distance of several hundred meters. Elevation difference between the water source and the point of water application may be as high as 100 meters. Water is carried to the plot site and distributed into branches which are made and laid-out with the use of different forms of bamboo pipes/ channels. Depending on requirement of points where water is to be applied (plant positions), the water is diverted through network of bamboo channels in orchard. Reduced channel sections and diversion units are used at last stage of water application. The last channel section enables in dropping water, drop by drop at the plant site. Once laid out, the system works round the clock. The cost involved in the system is minimum. Keywords: bamboo, drip irrigation, water scarcity, lower Dr N. Prakash, Dr P.P.Pal, Dr P. Sundrambal, Dr R. Kumar and Dr B. Bihari Agricultural Extension Division ICAR Research Complex for NEH Barapani Meghalaya)- 793 103 Ref: Indigenous technological knowledge followed by the tribal farmers of North eastern hill in agriculture. Indian J.