 5_6 mm thick thread of fresh sisal leaves are also used for tying the bundles of grass and green vegetable. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Mohan Singh, Main Market, P. O. Thal, Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Location of use of the ITK : Thal, Didihat, Pithoragarh (Uttaranchal) Experimenters : Dr Nirmal Chandra, Senior scientist (Agricultural Extension), Social Science Section, Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan, Almora (Uttaranchal) 263 601 Geographical indicators Sisal (Rampans) : Sisal (Agave sisalana) is a plant of the family Agavaceae. Its fibre is the most important of the leaf fibre group. It is widely cultivated for its large leaves that yield a stiff fibre used for making ropes and carpets. The sisal plant has a short stem of a thickness about 15 inch, from which spring upwards and out wards a number of thick rigid fleshy leaves from 4_6 feet in length, and having a maximum breadth of 4_7 inch. The leave-tapes towards the apex terminating in a long, sharp thorn. They are thickest at the base (1.25_1.75 inch), where the top surface almost flat, thinning towards the apex. Young plants, propagated from bulbils or rhizomes (underground stems) of mature plants. METHODOLOGY A field study was done in Thal village of Didihat block in Pithoragarh district of Uttaranchal. The PRA tool was used for collection of information about the ITK. Field survey was conducted in 10 villages of Thal area. Response was taken from 70 farmers regarding their perception about the strength, appearance and durability of various ropes being used in the area on a five point continuum, viz., very good, good, uncertain, moderately good and poor. The scores were given 4, 3, 2, 1 and 0 respectively. The properties of the fibre were determined at National Institute of Research on Jute and Allied Fibre Technology, Kolkata. Sisal is abundantly available in the wild form all over Kumaun. The rope is prepared and used extensively in Thal and nearby areas. Extraction of fibre Raw materials (sisal fibre) for the present study were extracted from the leaves of sisal plant,   NATURAL YARNS AND DYES Fibre of sisal Mat prepared from sisal fibre which were collected from Thal area. The leaves were crushed mildly and then were kept in slow- running stream at Hawalbagh for 10 days in August. The retted material was again crushed by wooden log (mugar). It was then thoroughly washed with fresh water and thus sisal fibre was obtained, and after drying the fibre was combed and bundle was made. The extracted fibre was tested for its physical and chemical properties using the following procedures: Physical properties Fibre Length: Fibre length was determined by the oil method. In this the fibres were combed straight and vaseline was spread on glass plate. Then the fibres were mounted on glass plate along a straight line and their length was measured (by centimetre or millimetre scale). Fibre diameter: Fibre diameter was studied under microscope.