 Accordingly, it leads to improved N-use efficiencies and fewer N losses to the environment. Reducing runoff and water erosion with conservation agriculture in agroforestry result in lower transport of sediments, nutrients and pesticides/ herbicides and higher water quality. Water management: Agroforestry systems improve soil moisture retention which is very helpful for mitigating drought impacts and protecting intercrops in arid and semi-arid regions; trees component also acts as buffers, filtering pollutants and reducing runoff into water bodies, promote rainfall infiltration and reduce surface runoff through tree canopies. Agroforestry creates the soil conditions that would result in reduced erosion and runoff besides improved water quality compared to conventional practices. Likewise, water- holding capacity and storage are enhanced by providing some buffer to crop production during drought conditions. Biodiversity enhancement: Due to multi component nature, agroforestry creates diverse habitats for various species and increases biodiversity which in turn attract pollinators and enhances crop yields and resilience. The enhanced biodiversity has additional advantage as it naturally regulates pest populations and reducing dependence on chemical pesticides in farm lands. The enhanced biodiversity of flora and fauna under agroforestry system promotes endophytic microorganisms and contributes towards control of pest and diseases. Climate regulation: Globally, climate negotiations have highlighted the importance of land-use systems in mitigating the climate change. Agroforestry has the huge potential as a mitigating strategy to the changing climate because of its potential to sequester carbon in its multiple plant species. Trees are the most significant component of agroforestry due to their biomass and important sink for atmospheric carbon, since 50% of their standing biomass is carbon itself. Trees capture and store carbon dioxide, helping mitigate climate change impacts. Due to huge potential of tree species for carbon storage in farm lands, a focused and dedicated programme on their promotion can definitely lead to carbon farming. Even small and marginal farm holdings can play an important role in this endeavour by promoting tree plantation on farm boundaries and earning extra income for the farmers. Agroforestry helps in climate regulation by enhancing tree cover, adopting conservation agroforestry practices (minimum or no tillage practices) and substituting bio-based fuels and products for fossil fuels. Additionally, in arid and semi- arid regions during hot summers, the soil temperature goes very high and under such circumstances, tree canopies regulate the microclimate by providing shade and reduce temperature extremes which ultimately benefits crop and livestock and increase the productivity.