 Access to credit and insurance as an important strategy for building resilience came up in most FGDs. Farmers have now started accessing loans and credit facilities and are opting for insurance schemes to pro­ tect against sudden crop loss. However, awareness of such schemes and provisions remains low, especially among women farmers. Many farmers shared that based on their recent experiences with climate un­ certainties, they are now maintaining a buffer monetary fund for such emergencies so that their families and children do not have to suffer. 4.3. Adaptation resources and access to extension and information We asked FGD respondents to share which resources they nee­ ded—financial, physical, information—to support adaptation practices, and discuss some of the most common themes. As detailed earlier, several government schemes and programs exist to support farmers in responding directly and indirectly to climate change-related agricultural shocks. The FGDs showed that access to and information about these schemes remains low. Several farmers spoke about difficulties in identifying eligibility for government schemes and programs as well as lack of awareness about specific measures available to them. Similarly, the lack of crop-specific advisories was highlighted as a major impediment, especially as farmers shift to growing new crops, where traditional knowledge may be inadequate. Relatedly, the lack of local weather information, especially for small farmers who may not have access to smartphones, was highlighted as an important hindrance. The FGD findings highlight issues of accessing relevant, quality, and timely agricultural information while making critical farming decisions, especially during climatic shocks and pest attacks; and using technology and modern methods. Finally, access to inputs such as preventative (rather than curative) pest management practices, new and improved seeds, and irrigation and water conservation technologies were highlighted as important adap­ tation resources. Even though government programs exist to address most of the challenges related to accessing these resources, farmers pointed to both a lack of information and support in procuring the in­ puts, and the large upfront payments required as reasons for low adoption. On both measures, small farmers were found to have a distinct disadvantage due to both limited access to information communication technologies (ICT) and social networks for information, and little to no access to formal and institutional credit. From the FGDs, a mix of formal and informal agents emerged as primary sources of agricultural information. NGOs such as SEWA were the most common source of agricultural information for farmers, P. Barooah et al. Agricultural Systems 212 (2023) 103751 9 especially women.