 A computerized late blight forecasting system known as JHULSACAST (Singh et al., 2000) was developed for Uttar Pradesh for forecasting first appearance of late blight. It has predicted appearance of the disease before its actual appearance in UP during the last 13 years. Studies have shown that prophylactic fungicide sprays help in protecting the crop with a minimal crop loss (<10%) using recommended spray schedule even in epiphytotic years as against 30-40% losses in crop that was not protected prophylactically. ICAR- CPRI has developed a pan-India late blight forecasting model named Indo-Blightcast. The expected reduction in crop losses by the use of Indo-Blightcast (Singh et al. 2016) in last five years would have been 35.8 million ton of potatoes valued at Rs. 3580 crores (@ 7.16 Mt annually). Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 131 3.6.2. Environmentally safe management of biotic and abiotic stresses in horticul- tural crops Pesticide residues have always been a major concern in horticultural crops. However, of late, focus is on novel techniques to manage these stresses. RNAi based nanoclay dsRNA formulation has been developed against late blight of potato and management of potato cyst nematode. In vitro bio-immunization technology for Fusarium wilt TR4 tolerant banana has been successfully demonstrated. Biopriming for protecting ginger seed rhizomes has been patented. Vegetable grafting to avoid soil-borne diseases such as bacterial wilt in tomato, nematodes in capsicum and Fusarium wilt in watermelon have been developed. Traps have been designed for invasive pests like Tuta in tomato. Diagnostics kits like dip sticks (Lateral flow immune-strip) for BBrMV and CMV in banana (Selvarajan et al. 2020), lateral flow technology for potato viruses, NASH detection for Banana Bunchy Top Virus/ Banana Streak Virus and Real-time LAMP assays for viruses in spices have been developed. UAV & AI technologies are now being used for pest & disease surveillance/ management especially for detecting damage symptoms of rhinoceros beetle, leaf eating caterpillar, root (wilt) disease and sooty mould associated with spiraling white fly infestation of coconut and other plantation crops. Bio-pesticides like ICAR-FUSICONT with strains of Trichoderma and Pseudomonas for management of panama wilt of banana and nutrient solubilisers like Arka Microbial Consortium for better nutrient mobilization and Penicillium pinophilum for potash and phosphorous solubilization developed for pomegranate have been commercialized. In addition, food safety and referral laboratories have been established in major horticultural institutes to monitor pesticide residues. 4.