 Another remedy is to crush the bark of jipta (Triumfetta pentandra) and apply on the injuries (Junagadh, Gujarat). Kathiriya (1998) 496 Treatment of Jonk (leach) infestation In this case either powder of palash fruit (Butea monosperma) along with water or concoction of tobacco and lime water is given to the animal with the help of drench bottle made of bamboo (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 497 Efficacy of vaira (Heterofragma roxburgii) root extract against ticks in cattle Tick infestation constitutes a great health hazard in cattle of Koraput district, partcularly in rainy season. The root extracts of vaira (Heterofragma roxburgii), a medium size shrub (belonging to family Bignoniacea), abundantly available in the area is commonly used by the local people to control tick infestation in cattle. With a view to assess and refine the indigenous technology available with the farmers, a case study was conducted to find out the efficacy of vaira root extract at different concentrations against adult boophilus ticks and its performance was compared with butox (deltamethrin), the common drug available in the local market to control ticks. Spray of vaira root extract at a concentartion of 0.3,0.4 and 0.5kg root/lt of water and butox at a concentration of 0.02% (recommended by the Behura et al. (2002) 266 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference manufacturer), killed 75,84,91 and 90% of ticks, respectively within 48 hrs. Reinfestation of ticks occurred from 15-21 days post-application. Symptoms of toxicity was not observed in any case. Vaira root extract at a concentration of 0.5 kg roots/litre of water proved to be most effective against ticks in cattle (Koraput, Orissa). 498 Control of leach infestation Farmers apply tobacco tar inside the nostrils where leaches infestation is there. Leaches are killed (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 499 Luffa amara for mastitis Mastitis is an inflammation of mammary gland of cattle mainly caused by bacteria and occasionally by fungi and algae. The most important symptoms are abnormality in milk secretion and swelling of udder and teats. About 100 g of Luffa amara leaves are ground and smeared over the udder region. In addition, about 10 g roots of Aristolochia indica are pounded and mixed in 150 ml of water and used for drenching animal. This solution is applied on the udder for three days. Anonymous (2000- 2001a) 500 Indian curry for skin infection Kharajva is a skin disease, which is characterised by hair loss, itching and hardening of skin. Kadhi (indian curry) if applied on the affected skin can cure it within 3-4 days (Viramgam, Ahmedabad, Gujarat). Patel (2001b) 501 Control of skin diseases in animals Deodar oil mixed with common salt is used to massage the diseased portion of the skin of goats in Kinnaur. Both have medicinal value (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir).