 Srivastava-President, IAUA and Dr. Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn). Dr. Arvind Kumar welcomed the dignitaries on the dais and participating VCs & Directors and apprised the house regarding the provisions made under various components in XII Plan. Dr. R.B. Singh mentioned that efforts towards strengthening education, research & extension can only take the nation forward and appreciated the efforts of the NARS to work in that direction with focussed attention. Dr. Kushmakar Sharma, ADG (HRD) presented the salient recommendations of the committee on the evaluation and accreditation of non- grant agricultural and allied colleges affiliated to SAUs and those in general universities. It was informed that the committee recommended that the ICAR may allow affiliation /accreditation of private unaided agricultural and allied colleges provided they ful-fill the requirements of infrastructure, manpower and quality education programme through a well laid out transparent process. 22 The VCs were of the view that ICAR may not consider accreditation of the private colleges unless requested by them. It was also requested that report of the committee may be uploaded on the ICAR website. Dr. K. Sharma also presented the report of the committee constituted under the chairmanship of Dr R. B Singh for prescribing model qualifications for selection of VCs of agricultural universities. The VCs appreciated the move and suggested to re-examine the feasibility of having a score card for the purpose. The third presentation By Dr K Sharma was regarding the proposed revision in the guidelines for the students to conduct research for their degree programme as trainees at ICAR Institutes. The revisions were appreciated by the VCs and Directors of the ICAR Institutes. Dr. R.B. Singh opined the need to increase Public-Private Partnership and engage the corporate/ private sector into developmental process without compromising with the quality. Dr. Gurbachan Singh informed that score card should not be used as a physical parameter but there should be minimum four-five parameters to be pointed as questions, and it should not be called as score card, but a kind of some bench mark for calling for interview. The following issues were also raised during the discussion i) There is scarce of response from the state government in adopting the ICAR Model act or giving their input on it. ii) In the Model act there is a provision of two committees one for screening and other for selection, which also needs acceptance of the state government. Dr. K. Narayangowda, VC, UAS, Bangalore, presented the highlights of the International Farmers’ Fair and mentioned that it may be the annual feature of the university as it created a unique platform for different stakeholders from the farming sector. He also highlighted the activities/achievements/contribution of the university in the national development. Dr.