 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 87 Use of kewada for family planning Volume 2, page 524 Kewada Bengali: keya, kedki-keya, keori; Gujarati: kewoda; Hindi: keura, kewda, ketki, gagandhul; Kannada: tale mara, kyad- agegida; Malayalam: kaida, thala; Marathi: keora; Sanskrit: ketaki; Tamil: tazhai, thatay; Telugu: mugali {male), ketaki, gajangi. Screw-pine Pandanus odoratissimus Linn. The leaves are said to be valuable in leprosy, small pox, scabies and diseases of the heart and brain. The anthers of the male flowers are given in earache, headache and diseases of the blood. The juice obtained from the whole inflorescence from which the spathes have been removed is said to be useful in rheumatic arthritis in animals. Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSITY Geographical indications A densely, branched shrub, rarely erect, found along the coast of India and in Andaman Islands; it is common on the sea shore forming a belt of dense, impenetrable vegetation above the high water mark. Stem up to 6 m high, supported by aerial roots; leaves glaucous-green, 0.9-1.5 m long, ensiform, caudate acuminate, coriaceous, with spines on the margins and on the midrib; spadix of male flowers, 25- 50 cm long, enclosed in long, white fragrant, caudate acuminate spathes; spadix of female flowers solitary, 5 cm in diameter; fruit an oblong or glabrous syncarpium, 15-25 cm in diameter, yellow or red; drupes numerous. This species is the most widespread and has been recorded from Mauritius Islands in the west to Polynesian Islands in the east. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 88 Use otsinia root and bekria grass for typhoid treatment in human being Volume 2, page 524 Sinia Gujarati: ghugharo; Marathi: ghagari; Punjabi: sis, sissai, khip. Crotalaria burhia Buch.-Ham. The plant is valued in Rajasthan (Rajaputana) as fodder for camels.The leaves and branches are used as a cooling medicine. A low, slender, branched undershrub, common in the arid parts ascending up to 4,000 ft. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 89 Use ofkaner leaves to cure old wounds Volume 2, page 525 Kaner Refer ITK Code No. 168 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 890 : Treatment of asthma in human being : Volume 2, page 525 : Datura Refer ITK Code No.