 Non- violence, truthfulness, democratic institutions, village industry and people-centric approach were his main principles and teachings. He had led several movements to pursue the cause of Indian farmers, including famous protest of Champaran in 1917. These movements motivated the farmers and rural workers to join the freedom struggle. Mahatma Gandhi firmly believed that prosperity of agriculture and farmers should pave the way for economic prosperity of the country. This belief has been reaffirmed in the agricultural development process followed in India and other developing countries. Evidences are now available indicating that agricultural growth has significant impacts on reduction of poverty and promotion of social and economic equity. The pandemic of COVID-19 has further established that agriculture is a strong pillar to absorb economic shocks and build resilience to economic growth. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been at the forefront to propel agricultural development through development and dissemination of technology, building human capital and establishing the rural centres to serve the farmers. The Council has developed partnerships with the organizations serving farmers and rural people. One of the important components of ICAR strategy is increasing agricultural productivity in harmony with nature. The needs of unprivileged farmers, marginal production environments, and rural youth have been accorded high priority in research programs of the Council. Similarly, gender mainstreaming, outscaling of farmers’ innovations, farmers’ participatory approach, and institutional change for higher efficiency has been corner stones of research approach of ICAR. The Council has followed the principles of Mahatma Gandhi to make Indian agriculture prosperous, empower farmers, and strengthen village institutions. The efforts made by the Krishi Vigyan Kendras to develop skills of rural women and small farmers, and to provide services at the doorstep of farmers have contributed to the Gandhian vision. This publication documents the major contributions of ICAR to promote sustainable development, technological empowerment of people in inaccessible areas, enhance value of farm produce, and promote rural livelihood. Conservation of biodiversity, soil and water, yield improvement of millets in hill areas, improvement of indigenous cattle, goat development, support for fishermen and food processing options for households are some of the notable examples. viii I compliment the authors for bringing out this publication that shall be useful for policy makers and public agencies to take the task of agriculture and rural development on the Gandhian way. This is the need of the hour when there is weakening of the values of rural communities and rising pressure on natural resources.