 Captive breeding and seed production of an important food fish, mangrove red snapper was successfully undertaken, which not only is a suitable species for farming in brackish water ponds and open cages, but it also grows fast, tolerates salinity and accepts pelleted feed. A portable fiberglass reinforced plastics (FRP) hatchery was designed and fabricated for pabda. It possesses the capacity to accommodate 45,000-50,000 fertilized eggs, which can produce 10,000-15,000 early fry in a single cycle. By adopting multiple stocking and ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 3 OVERVIEW multiple harvesting (MSMH) farming models with milkfish, productivity could be increased in small and traditional ponds. In 180 days, this model yielded 3.0- 3.8 tonnes/h fish with a benefit-cost ratio of 1.50-1.66. Crop management: A decision support tool (APSIM) to design suitable crop management in sorghum interventions for locations and to optimize rabi sorghum systems productivity was developed. Simulation study indicated that refined APSIM setup with gridded NASA data could be successfully used to simulate the yields of rabi sorghum across the country. Work on organic farming (OF) in pulses especially in long duration pigeon pea showed that higher crop performance could be realized with OF vis-a-vis inorganic or recommended practice. Intercropping of maize + cowpea (1:1) was most effective with higher grain yield of maize (66 q/ha) compared to that in maize – chickpea system (63.90 q/ ha). Crop intensification with foxtail millet as pre-rabi crop, is recommended in rainfed Alfisols of Prakasam district for an additional net income of ` 10,000 to 25,000/ha, where farmers normally grow tobacco and Bengal gram in rabi. Maize-tobacco cropping system is recommended as remunerative cropping system in terms of tobacco leaf yield (2,380 kg/ha) and net returns (` 139,285) in tobacco growing Vertisols of Andhra Pradesh. The maximum soybean yield was recorded under conventional tillage carried out after two years and remained at par with sub soiling once in four years and conventional tillage carried out every year. A novel rhizobial strain Bradyrhizobium daqigense was isolated for the first time from root nodules of soybean. Five resources based farmer specific IFS models each of one ha size were developed and demonstrated by IGFRI, Jhansi to enhance the livelihood of Bundelkhand farmers. Trichoderma isolates from pulses rhizosphere were tested under in-vitro and green house conditions at ICAR-IIPR, Kanpur; one isolate, 11PRTH-31 (Trichoderma asperellum) was identified for maximum inhibition of mycelial growth of wilt pathogens, promoted root length, shoot length, and tolerated temperature up to 50oC. Blast pathogen Pyricularia grisea infect the spike or finger of finger milletat flowering stage. Yield loss due to this disease varies from 28-36% and may go up under favourable conditions for disease.