 In other words “A nursery could be considered as a location where plants are cared for during the early stages of growth by providing optimum conditions for germination and subsequent growth until they become strong enough for planting in the open field conditions.” Nursery bed is defined as a prepared area in a nursery where seed is sown to raise the seedlings. The seedling is defined as a young sporophyte developing out of a plant embryo from a seed. Why to raise the vegetable nursery? Healthy seeds and seedlings are the first and essential requirement for achieving full yield potential of any vegetable crop. In recent years, vegetable growers have become highly conscious of the importance of quality seeds or seedlings because of higher pest and disease incidence, and poor germination due to improper management of moisture in beds. A major portion of the area under vegetable cultivation in India is now sown with hybrid seeds, which are costly but give higher yields and quality produce. In view of the high cost of seeds, some vegetable crops like tomato, brinjal, capsicum and cucurbits are being transplanted after growing nursery to achieve maximum germination count and healthy plant establishment. There are a number of vegetables which require special care during their early growth period and cannot be grown directly in the field because of small size of their seeds. The other reason behind it is high cost especially for hybrid seeds. There are several other advantages of raising seedlings in nursery as listed below. yy It is possible to grow and maintain a large number of plants per unit area. yy Valuable and very small seeds can be raised effectively Indian Horticulture 34 without any wastage. yy Possible to protect the seedlings against biotic and abiotic stresses. yy Convenient to look after the young and tender seedlings in nursery. yy The management of seedlings can be done in a better way by efficient use of land, labour and capital compared to direct sown crop with minimum care as the nursery area is small. yy Uniform and 100% crop stand in the main field can be maintained. yy Favourable growing conditions can be provided easily for raising seedlings successfully. yy An early crop / standing crop in the field can be harvested, which can fetch higher price. yy More time is available for the preparation of main field because nursery is grown separately. yy Possible to provide favourable growing conditions for germination as well as growth. yy Eliminates the problem of difficult soils. yy Easy weed control. yy More accurate prediction of uniform harvest date. yy Development of entrepreneurship in rural areas. yy Employment generation especially for rural women. Types of Nursery Temporary nursery: This type of nursery is developed only to fulfill seasonal requirements or a targeted project. Such a nursery is, usually, small in size and is set up for a short period after which it is abandoned.