 These are the Oryza pathotype- pathogenic on rice (Oryza sativa), Setaria pathotype- pathogenic on foxtail millet (Setaria italica), Panicum pathotype-pathogenic on common millet (Panicum miliaceum), Triticum pathotype- pathogenic on wheat (Triticum aestivum), Eleusine pathotype- on finger millet (Eleusine coracana), Lolium pathotype- pathogenic on perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne) and Avena pathotype- pathogenic on oats (Avena sativa). But this basis of classification was not fruitful for a long time because pathogenicity test of the many pathotypes has revealed broader host range. For example, isolates of Triticum pathotype can cause disease on oats, barley and rye; similarly, lolium and avena pathotype can infect wheat. The rice-infecting isolates of M. oryzae a re not pathogenic on wheat and genetically different from wheat infecting populations of M. oryzae. Therefore, the wheat blast pathogen was named as Pyricularia graminis tritici (Pygt). Pyricularia oryzae (Magnaporthe oryzae) designated as a single species with multiple lineages and limited primary host whereas, wheat infecting Pyricularia species has large host range and high genetic variations. The reason behind the huge difference between rice- infecting Pyricularia and wheat- infecting Pyricularia regarding host range and new host adaptation is mutations in avirulence gene PWT3 and PWT4. A recent study based on multi-gene phylogenetic analysis of blast causing isolates revealed that there are two species causing wheat blast- Pyricularia graminis tritici (Pygt) and Pyricularia oryzae pathotype triticum (PoT) both of which are independent to Pyricularia oryzae; a pathogen of rice. The wheat blast pathogen of Bangladesh is similar to South American isolate of wheat blast that has been recognized as Pyricularia graminis tritici (Pygt). Epidemiology Occurrence of the disease symptom is associated with high humidity and average temperature ranges between 18°-25°C during flowering stage followed by hot- humid, sunny weather for several days. Management For a long time the disease was endemic to Brazil and later it became sporadic. Due to high variability and large host range there is a chance to be epidemic. It will be difficult to find resistance source because of its high variability. In this context, integrated management practices can be a good strategy to manage this disease. Reinforcement of strong quarantine facilities: Sudden outbreak of Brazilian pathotype of wheat blast pathogen in Bangladesh is the consequence of spread to inefficient legislative measures. Earlier also the pathogen spread to Bolivia, Paraguay and Argentina from imported Brazilian seed lot. The rigorous vigilance and detection method can decrease the further spread of the pathogen. Use of healthy seeds: As the pathogen is seed borne, spore can remain viable up to two years both on surface and inside the seed. Healthy and certified seeds should be used.