7% under high carbon and medium carbon, respectively under zero tillage practice. Integrated Farming System OVERVIEW ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 7 models have been established through AICRP on Integrated Farming Systems and All India Network Programme on Organic Farming in the country for improving the income of the farmers and sustainability, besides addressing the climate change. Till now, a total of 71 prototype IFS models (including 8 integrated organic farming system models), 63 on-farm farmer participatory refined farming systems and 32 bankable models have been developed, suitable for 26 States and UTs. Human Resource Development: The Education Division, ICAR helps to ensure quality assurance of 76 AUs and various agricultural colleges with private universities through accreditation process. Various training programmes under the plan scheme of Agricultural Education Division as well as NAHEP and NAARM helped enhance the capabilities of the faculties and students in various upcoming areas and improved the nature of publications out of PG research. AUs were also provided assistance for encouraging holistic development of students, as well as limited support for Agribusiness Incubation Centres. A total of 42 new applications for accreditation of degree programmes, colleges and agricultural universities were received in the year 2023-24. Ten Agricultural Universities including backlog of previous year, were granted accreditation. A total of 583 and 292 students were awarded ICAR PGS and ICAR JRF/SRF for Master’s and Doctoral studies, respectively. Krishikosh, a digital repository (https://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) of valuable documents in the field of agriculture and allied sciences, has been created and strengthened. Currently this digital repository has 50 million digitized pages in more than 3,00,000 digital items (volumes) like old books, old Journals, reports, proceedings, reprint, research highlights, training manuals, historical records, which includes more than 1,90,000 theses digitized from various NARES Institutes/SAUs. A tool has been developed for Important Keywords extraction along with its frequency in different years from the metadata of theses titles available in Krishikosh repository. The key components of NHAEP, viz. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), Institutional development Plan (IDP), and Innovation Grants have contributed to enhanced entrepreneurship opportunities and other reforms in AUs. NAHEP is benefitting 74 institutions in the ICAR-AU System, including 63 State- level agricultural universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculties, and 3 Central Agricultural Universities. Social Science: Sustaining the momentus in pulses production requires a technological breakthrough and restriction on imports to incentivise farmers to produce more.