 Development of seed banks for storage and timely supply of seeds at block level. iv. Focus on manure and bio-fertilizers; fertigation etc. to increase efficiency of fertilizers. v. Water management in both irrigated and rainfed areas which includes: Water harvesting (rainfall, runoff, roof top water etc.), rejuvenation of traditional water bodies, augmentation of water storage structures, micro-irrigation, fertigation etc to enhance water use efficiency; Creation of additional water storage low hills for lean season; Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip in juvenile plants in low or valley areas. vi. Mechanization for increasing farm efficiency - by providing prototypes, subsidizing and developing custom hiring centers; vii. Promotion of Integrated Farming System (IFS); viz poultry + livestock + horticulture + Composting + or horticulture + fisheries + dairy + Composting + Protected cultivation etc State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 221 viii. Crop diversification - high value crops like apple, pear, peach, plum, apricot, cherry, almond, walnut, olive, kiwi fruit, hazel nut, strawberry etc, niche specific cropping, floriculture, medicinal & aromatic plants, high value vegetable like lettuce, parsley, celery, artichoke, Chinese cabbage etc will fetch more price and increase the economy of the farmers. ix. Intensive cultivation e.g. High Density Plantation (HDP) with suitable architectural engineering systems in apple, cherry, peach etc to accommodate more number of plants with higher yield potential. Use of new generation cultivars suitable for high density orcharding systems grafted on clonal root stocks. In annual crops use of cultivars with less juvenile period to enhance cropping intensity and productivity. Protected and Precision farming – Promotion of polyhouse technology; use of technology to manage the inputs at the micro level – hydroponic, aeroponics, minimum tillage, micro-irrigation & fertigation etc. Management of soil health in low or valley areas Organic cultivation of local grain, millets, saffron, walnut etc in different blocks; Promotion of soil amendments in reclamation of problematic and degraded soil in some regions of the valley. Animal Husbandry i. Management of genetic resources by adopting central herd registration and progeny testing. ii. Establishment of genetic resource pools for making available elite germplasm to attain desirable level of upgradation in cattle iii. Introduction of elite semen for improving quality of local cattle Improved breeds; through crossing iv. Development of cooperatives (Non-Government cooperatives) Selection of high milk breeds in cattle. v. Since repeat breeding is the main problem in crssing therefore more research work on repeat breeding need to be done vi. While breeding exotic blood/proportion should not exceed 60% because it reduces hybrid vigour. vii.