 Halophytes are the plants that can tolerate salt concentration ranging from 500–100 mm NaCl (sodium chloride). One of the greatest potentials of halophytes probably rests in their utilization as forage and fodder. These palatable halophytes are nutritiously suitable to the animal. However, very few literatures are available on the palatability of these fodder resources. The studies on the nutritional quality of halophytes at ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, RRS-Bhuj, revealed that wide variation in proximate composition exists in different halophytes. Some of the common palatable halophytes found in arid Kachchh are Suaeda nudiflora, Aleuropus lagopoides, Sporobolus marginatus, Cressa cretica. These palatable halophytes can successfully be cultivated in the saline ecosystem. Detailed studies must be conducted to harvest their potential as a dryland fodder resource in arid saline soils. Keywords: Aleuropus lagopoides, Cressa cretica, Halophytes, Salinity, Sodicity Indian Farming 73 (03): 03-06; March 2023 S ALINIZATION is one of the most serious degradations affecting plant growth and productivity, especially in arid and semi-arid areas where rainfall is insufficient to leach down excess salts out of the rhizosphere. Globally salt-affected soils occupy about 952 m/ha under the various degree of salinization. In India, about 6.73 million ha (mha) of land is affected by the salt problem. The maximum area of salt-affected soils occurs in Gujarat (2.22 mha), followed by Uttar Pradesh (1.37 mha) and Maharashtra (0.61 mha) which account for about 62.4% of the total salt-affected areas in the country. The salt-affected areas are expected to increase further with the spread of waterlogging and salinity due to an increase in canal irrigation and intensive exploitation of poor quality groundwater for irrigation. The estimate by ICAR-Central Soil Salinity Research Institute, Karnal indicates that by 2030, the country may have about 15.5 mha areas under salt-affected soils. Salt affected soils are agriculturally unproductive because of the high contents of either soluble or exchangeable sodium, calcium or magnesium primary in the form of chloride and sulphate which have harmful effects on plant growth due to moisture stress and toxicity of some of the ions. In arid regions, saline soils may have an excess amount of boron, fluoride and nitrates. The growing human population and increased demand for food and feed put pressure on limited land resources and more and more degraded lands like saline ecosystem are being utilized for unproductive crop production. Therefore, restoring the productivity of saline lands is important not only to reduce the pressure on productive lands but also to produce sufficient food and fodder to fulfill the demand of the ever-increasing population. In general, most of the field crops are sensitive to excess salts resulting in uneconomical crop production.