 15 December 2004 ^ (P DAS) New Delhi Deputy Director-General (AE) and Mission Leader Content 1 Rain Water Management Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2765 Splashing of water to arecanut trees 2766 Collection of water by making channel 2767 Bandh made of mud and stone 2768 Water lifting using lat Rain water is collected in the pit, dug in the ground between four trees in the arecanut plantation. This collected water is splashed on the tree using a device, made of cashewnut-tree trunk. This is commonly seen in the entire plantation fields in Goa. Keywords: arecanut, splashed, rain water, trunk Water from higher altitudes is col- lected through channels. This water is brought to the collection centre at a lower altitude by gravity, which is used for irrigating agricultural fields. Keywords: altitude, gravity, rain water, irrigation The check dam called nalla is made of mud and stone. This structure is called bandh, which is used to conserve rain water. The collected rain water is chanellized and diverted for irrigating the fields. Keywords: bandh, nalla, irrigation Rain water is collected in ponds, pits and small pools. This water is utilized for irrigating vegetable garden. At the time of irrigation, a device called lat is used. This device is a combination of bamboo poles, which is tied to a strong rock-like stone or cut portion of the tree bark. It is kept horizontally, and to fill up water, a small pot of either plastic or a steel bucket or bended steel is tied at the tip of one pole with Shri Mangala Kalidas Sawaikar, Tamsuli, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 107 Shri Sanjay Anant Patil, Savaiverem, Shilwada, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) 403 401 Ms Nilima Nachinolkar, C/o Sandeep Gawas, Porye, Sattan, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Ms Nilima Nachinolkar, C/o Sandeep Gawas, Ranewad, Parye Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2769 Rain-water harvesting and moisture conservation by mehandi (Lawsonia alba) through tillage practises the pulley attached to it. The process is similar to that of drawing water from the well using pulley and bucket. After the process, the water pours through the channel. If the garden or land is a little bigger, the water is again collected in pits dug in the field, and it is splashed manually by two persons standing opposite to each other. Keywords: lat, splash, bamboo pole, bucket Mehandi (Lawsonia alba) is very popular among the ladies of Rajasthan, Gujarat, and Madhya Pradesh, and among the Muslim ladies of most of the states of India. Mehandi is also used for organic or natural dyes. Farmers of entire Sojat belt of Pali district in Rajasthan are cultivating it for using in rain water harvesting and moisture conservation practises in soil since the last 20-25 years. Broadly this technique is grouped under two systems: 1.