 Government of India has announced to create new 10000 FPO’s in next 5 years to boost the sector, NABARD, SFAC, NCDC, NAFED are implementing agencies promoting new FPC in India, Community based business organization program is being executed to create and strengthen new FPCs. Why current FPCs not sustainable FPC leadership lacks vision and growth mindset. There are different challenges in FPC segment wise—Capital: lack of financial literacy, identification of capital requirement, statutory provision for outside investment. Human capital: FPC have not the professional talent as professionals t don’t want to shift in rural area. Indian agriculture can transform only through “Value Chain Model” which includes farmers, farmer producer companies, farmer owned product aggregator and farmer owned market aggregator (value chain). Farmers focus on production of 2-3 major crops, quality improvement and improved productivity. Farmer producer companies focus on technical support to farmers, input supply and credit support to farmers. Farmer owned product aggregator focus on core post-harvest infrastructure, primary processing, logistics, storage and mentoring FPOs and FPC’s. Farmer owned market aggregators focuses on branding & marketing, B2B domestic sales, export, B2C sales through retail outlets/ online platform. Value chain model focus on 58 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series local, national and global markets, local retailers, international retailers, brands, food processors, traders APMC and finally meet supply of consumers across various geographies. Proven cooperative models globally are Zespri green kiwi fruit from New Zealand based Co-op company with a turnover of Rs. 15767 Cr.; Fruit Masters from Netherland based 117 years old company with a turnover of Rs. 7800 Cr. Indian Cooperative models are: Amul the taste of India India’s Co-op company with a turnover of Rs. 40,000 Cr and Sahyadri Farms, Seedling goodness, India’s largest horticulture farmer collective (FPC) with a turnover of Rs. 600 Cr. Leadership qualities Following are leadership qualities— purpose & vision development, self- development, ownership, social value, mindfulness, stakeholder management, making strategic thought process, team building maintaining partnership, collaboration, networking, negotiation etc. and should know conflict management and risk management. Organization focus are on pillars which include business, finance, farm operations, market, business operations & process, technology & innovations, post-harvest management, compliance & governance and human capital. Key takeaways Government should focus on commodity-wise federation and budget allocation for global brand development. While allocating funds or designing schemes, Government should focus on impactful allocation. A type of Cluster Based Business Organization (CBBO) support program needs to be refined. NGOs can’t build the brands.