5 litre/plant is sprayed with the help of rocker sprayer for effective control of mites in coconut plantation. Keywords: mite, coconut plantation, neem oil. garlic, soap solution For controlling rhinoceros beetle in coconut, an extract of fruit of opium plant (Cannabis saliva) is taken and is Shri Sony Francis, Chirapassathu Pariyaram Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri T. Shivashankar Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2889 Formulation for control of eriophyid mite in coconut 2890 Application of salt to control coconut diseases 2891 Pest control in tea plant mixed with latex of Ficus spp. The prepared extract is poured into the hole. Due to this treatment beetles comes out and are killed manually. Keywords: rhinoceros beetle, coconut, opium The formulations consist of 1 kg each of leaves of custard apple (Annona squamosa), turmeric rhizome {Curcuma longa), garden quinine (Clerodendrum inerme), indian aloe (Aloe vera), chaste tree (Vitex nigundo), neem kernels (Az.adirachta indica) milk weed (Calotropis sp.). The ingredients are crushed with sufficient water to make a paste, and juice is extracted by adding 5 litre water. Final volume of 20 litre is made by adding 15 litres water, and it can also be applied as a paste. This solution is applied to the crown region of the palm after the harvest of nuts @ 2 litre/palm. It should be repeated once in every months for better results. Keywords: eriophyid mites, coconut, herbal formulation In June and July, common salt is mixed with manure and kept at the bottom of the coconut tree. This helps control the disease and the tree gives better yield. This is widespread in practice. Keywords: manure, salt, coconut People of Silsako village in district Kamrup of North Guwahati (Assam) control tea pest by using this ITK. About 50 g roots of each ghura neem (Melia azedarach), sojina (Moringa oleifera), koros (Pongamia pinnata) are .soaked in water for 2 days, before crushing then crushed. The decoction is sprayed on the plants to control tea Shri M. K. Chellamuthu, Karrukapalayam Shri Keshav Gawas, Keri, Sattari, North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati Guwahati dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2892 Use of neem (Azadirachta indica) flower to control bugs in crops 2893 Use of dhatura (Belladona spp) to control pests of gourd crops Dhatura 2894 Solar-treated neem-leaf extract for parwal (pointed gourd) cultivation pests. About 100 litres water is added to the decoction, it is filtered and sprayed on the plants at 15 days interval for effective control of tea pests. Keywords: pest, tea plant, ghura neem, sojina About 1 kg neem (Azadirachta indica) flowers are dried, crushed and dust is prepared.