 Sulphur deficiency has been confirmed in 93 frontline demonstration trials carried out in Bihar, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh where application of 20-40 kg S/ha significantly increased the seed yield by 205 to 790 kg/ha. The economic benefit was Rs 14-26 per rupee spent on sulphur fertilizers. RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND MANAGEMENT Tillage Management in Soybean–Wheat and Rice–Wheat Systems in a Vertisol Performance of different tillage systems was evaluated on soil quality and crop productivity in soybean-wheat and rice-wheat cropping systems. In soybean-wheat cropping system, the effect of tillage on seed yields of both the crops was not significant. It indicates that conservation tillage can be adopted to realize similar yields of soybean with concomitant savings of energy and valuable time during sowing period in monsoon. Seed yields under 150% and 100% recommended nitrogen were at par and were significantly higher than those under 50% and no N treatments, respectively. Under rice-wheat cropping system, two tillage systems namely, mechanically transplanted rice and direct dry seeded rice were evaluated. The yield and B/C ratio of direct seeded rice were markedly less compared to mechanically transplanted rice. The higher yield in latter system may be attributed to the favourable soil physical environment in transplanted plots. Grain yield improved with nitrogen levels up to 100% N in both the systems. Effect of tillage and nitrogen on grain yield (tonnes/ha) and benefit: cost ratio of rice (IR 36) in rice-wheat cropping system Parameter Tillage treatment % nitrogen dose (kg/ha) 0 50 100 150 Yield Mechanically transplanted rice 0.80 3.20 5.50 5.70 Direct dry seeded rice 0.54 0.72 1.12 1.34 B : C ratio Mechanically transplanted rice 0.34 1.17 1.82 1.73 Direct dry seeded rice 0.32 0.40 0.57 0.63 Varying Land Treatments for Irrigation and Nutrient Management Effect of different treatments, viz. (a) broad bed and furrow (BBF) and (b) flat on grade (FOG) and nutrient management showed that the yields of soybean in all treatments under BBF were higher than those under FOG because of better soil physical conditions. While the runoff was 13% of the seasonal rainfall, the soil loss was 3.3 tonnes/ha in both the land treatments. The dry biomass of nodules was 23% higher in BBF than in FOG. Dry biomass of nodules was better in the treatments having organic(s), i.e. FYM and/or Gliricidia as component. The replacement of inorganic nitrogen either fully or partially (50% through organics FYM and/or Gliricidia) increased nodule dry biomass from 35 to 130% under different land treatments. Nitrogen supply through organics, i.e. FYM and/or Gliricidia improved the synthesis of microbial biomass C and N. This is because applied organics acted as substrate for microbes which resulted in intense microbial activity and corresponding accumulation of nutrients.