 The ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 128 SOCIAL SCIENCE composite index showed a moderate level of agricultural sustainability in the region (CASI 0.52). The sustainability indices for socio-economic and soil related indicators were comparatively better and environmental and water dimensions of the sustainability were the most eroded dimensions, needing special attention. The results have two major implications. Firstly, there is an urgent need to adopt district-specific cropping pattern based on natural resource availability and improve the efficiency of the production, by adoption of better technology and conservation practices. Secondly, the response variables like high investment in R&D, irrigation efficiency, drainage, etc., need special attention. Increasing efficiency of input and resources like increasing area under conservation agriculture, promotion of agro- biodiversity, and diversity of production systems, should be given high priority. In some cases, policy correction like targeting subsidy can lead to better sustainability outcomes. The framework has a potential for its application in other parts of the country. It would require concerted efforts to capture data on a large number of indicators periodically, particularly on agro-diversity indicators. Emphasis should be given on assessing the sustainability trends with relevant indicators feasible in terms of implementation and responsiveness. Technology foresight in agriculture: The trends in scientific publication of emerging technologies such as synthetic biology and artificial intelligence in agriculture were studied. The study used lens.org, an open access platform, to search for articles, patents and citation of emerging technologies such as synthetic biology and artificial intelligence in agriculture. Both the technologies have application across different sectors. These are the key emerging disruptive technologies of the fourth industrial revolution. Application of these technologies such as deep learning and algorithms to predict disease and pest outbreaks, genome editing for new improved varieties are already in market. The new technologies and business systems are evolving in agricultural sector and it needs newer set of laws and research. For example, the regulations on data sharing, new breeding techniques (CRISPR-Cas 9), requires the existing laws to evolve suiting the such rapidly advancing scientific improvements. In case of artificial intelligence, India needs to design and develop policy framework supporting democratization and distribution of data which can be utilized by these ventures to develop innovative solutions and business models. The policy should also take care of the issues with ownership, privacy, protection, security and transparency of these data.