 Thus, their proﬁtability is much lower in other regions, and it might be difﬁcult to compensate for the yield losses through an increase in MSP Fig. 4 Percentage of total production procured at MSP (under central pool) Source: IndiaStat and Govt. of India 36 https://pib.gov.in/PressReleasePage.aspx?PRID=1887847 – Accessed on 16 August 2023. 37 https://www.icrisat.org/farmers-turn-to-millets-as-a-climate- smart-crop/ – Accessed on 16 August 2023. 38 https://ipad.fas.usda.gov/countrysummary/Default.aspx?id=IN& crop=Millet – Accessed on 17 August 2023. 30 H. Saranga et al. alone. Therefore, policies should support and encourage R&D in increasing the yield of millets. Transport sector Sustainable transport is integral to sustainable develop- ment, and transport policies must consider environmental, social, and economic implications. In India, the transport sector accounts for nearly 40% of air pollution; over 90% of that comes from road transport (Kamboj, Malyan, Kaur, Jain, & Chaturvedi, 2022). Figure 6 shows the domestic emission contribution by different transport modes in 2020. Our analysis primarily focuses on the road transport system only, including both passenger and freight, which are the biggest contributors to the carbon footprint of the Indian transport sector (over 90% of total tailpipe emissions). In FY 20192020, railways carried nearly 0.71 trillion tonne-km freight, compared to 2.7 trillion tonne-km by road transport. While the volume-distance covered by road transport is only 3.8 times that of rail, emission is nearly 23.5 times. Given the high emission contribution by trucks, GOI has been actively pushing for a multi-modal transport system. Simi- larly, for passenger transport, the ﬁgures stand at 1.05 tril- lion passenger-km for rail and nearly 22.6 trillion passenger- km by road. In a country with over 1.4 billion population, utilisation of mass transit systems and adoption of greener vehicles are very critical to reduce the carbon footprint. For a sustain- able road-transport system, it is a must to embrace technol- ogy-driven innovations and alternative fuels. Similarly, ensuring optimal utilisation of public the transport system is also essential to reduce the total number of vehicles on the road. While adopting greener vehicles helps in environmen- tal sustainability, mass transport systems would help in all three aspects of sustainability, including social and eco- nomic. Figure 7 provides a structure for the various elements required to be addressed for a sustainable transport system. Policies that bring in structural changes to the transport sector would signiﬁcantly inﬂuence consumers (both individ- ual customers and ﬂeet owners) and shape the strategies and actions of different players in the automotive and allied industries. With time, the government’s objectives are changing, and so are the policies.