 The Clubbing of Major Subject Groups of AIEEA (PG) under 4 broad programme categories for the award of Best Performing University is given in Table-21. Performance of the Universities and their brand value 4 “The purpose of education is to make good human beings with skill and expertise. Enlightened human beings can be created by teachers.” –A. P. J. Abdul Kalam Participants engaged in netting during training on Commercial Production of Quality Fish Seed at OUAT, Bhubaneswar 52 Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 53 Table 21. Clubbing of Major Subject Groups of AIEEA (PG) under broad programme categories for the award of Best Performing University Sr. No. Programme category Clubbing of Major Subject Groups for ICAR-PG Scholarship based awards 1. Agricultural Sciences Plant Sciences (Code 02), Physical Science (Code 03), Entomology & Nematology including Sericulture (Code 04), Agronomy (Code 05), Social Sciences (Code 06), Statistical Sciences (Code 07), Community Science (Formerly Home Science)/ Food Nutrition and Dietetics (Code12), Agribusiness Management (Code 20) 2. Horticulture and Forestry Horticulture (Code 08), Forestry/Agroforestry and Silviculture (Code 09) 3. Engineering and Technology Plant Biotechnology (Code 01), Agricultural Engineering & Technology (Code 10), Water Science Technology (Code 11), Animal Biotechnology (Code 13), Dairy Sciences (Code 17), Dairy Technology (Code 18), Food Science Technology (Code 19) 4. Veterinary & Fisheries Science Veterinary Science (Code 14), Animal Sciences (Code 15), Fisheries Science (Code 16) One of the yardsticks to measure the performance of Universities could be the number of PG Scholarship. The list of best performing Agricultural Universities on the basis of maximum ICAR-PG scholarship holders produced by them under the 4 specified programme categories during the past four years (Table-22). Table 22. PG scholarship holders produced by the AUs under the 4 specified programme categories during the past four years Academic Year Position Agricul- tural Sciences Group No. of PGS secured Horticulture and Forestry Group No. of PGS secured Engineering and Technology Group No. of PGS secured Veterinary and Fisheries Sci- ence Group No. of PGS secured 2019-20 First UAS, Bengaluru 37 UHS, Bagalkot 49 UAS, Bengaluru 12 TANUVAS, Chennai 12 Second ANGRAU, Guntur 34 Dr.