 Management of rice germplasm, development of varieties and technologies, quality rice seed production and reaching the farmers are the major activities of NRRI. The institute primarily follows traditional breeding methods such as pedigree and backcross to develop new varieties. Besides, molecular markers assisted selection is now integrated with conventional breeding. The doubled haploid technology has also been standardized and applied to develop varieties from popular commercial hybrids. Transgenic rice lines are being developed for validating gene function and efficacy of some known genes for tolerance to stem borer, sheath blight and drought. In addition to variety development, the institute designs farm implements, equipments and appliances for use in farm and post-harvest operations. Several crop management technologies have been standardized and are provided to the end-users. NRRI varieties occupy 18% of rice area of the country producing 28 million tons with ` 48,643 crores Agri-Business Incubation for Rice-Based Ecosystems G A K Kumar, R S Krishna, H Pathak, B C Patra, R K Sahu, A K Mukherjee, B Mondal, P K Guru, N T Borkar, C Rout, A Das and S Parida ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack, Odisha 753 006 Rice is the staple food for more than 50% of the global population and for about 800 million population of India. Worldwide the crop is grown in an area of 166 million ha with a production of 500 million tonnes of milled rice. India ranks first in terms of area (42 million ha) and second in terms of production (114 million tonnes) in the World. It plays a major role in diet, economy, employment, culture and history. It is the staple food for more than 65% of Indian population contributing approximately 40% to the total food grain production, thereby, occupying a pivotal role in the food and livelihood security of people. Key words: Agribusiness, FPOs, Rice Indian Farming 70(01): 53–55; January 2020 gross return annually. Agriculture can be made remunerative if it can be taken up in business mode given there is demand for the production in the market. Twenty-seven Agribusiness Incubation (ABI) Centres have been established in different ICAR- Institutes for technology commercialisation and also to train the youth in their respective fields of interest. Entrepreneurship development remains the major objective of the ABIs to support the youth for their agribusiness start-ups. Genesis: Although NRRI–ABI started in 2016, Business Planning and Development (BPD) unit under National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) had started in 2014. The foundation for ABI activities was laid since 2014 in form of identifying the suitable technologies for entrepreneurship development, procuring machineries, developing infrastructure and hiring manpower. Sensitisation meetings were held in villages for taking up farming as a business.