, “Chitri Dora Farmers Producer Company” in Koraput, Odisha was registered in Rice Seed Production and Padmabana’ Farmer Producer Company for production of vegetables, oilseeds, paddy seeds and market linkage of their agricultural produce in Nischintakoili block of Cuttack district, Odisha. • To strengthen the Poshan Abhiyan, “Nutrition Smart Villages: An Innovative Model for Strengthening Poshan Abhiyan” is launched in 75 village across India through the network of AICRP on Women in Agriculture along with the Nodal Institute ICAR-CIWA, Bhubaneswar at 14 centres in 13 States of India. • The Millet based High Fiber Food Mix was developed by ICAR-CIWA, AICRP on Home Science Centre, UAS, Bengaluru • Eighteen (18) nos. of dietary products with Low Glycemic Index were developed by AICRP centres • Value added handicraft products (110 nos.) from under-utilized fibres: jute, deccani wool, sisal, cots wool, sunhemp, buil, babana, bhindi, ambadi have been developed • Developed 12 different types of protective clothing for various agricultural activities and agri based textile industry workers • Developed 510 nutrition gardens and an iron rich product using locally available green leafy vegetable developed named as lehyam to combat anaemia. • 704 capacity building programmes conducted during last five years covering 31626 farm women. • Doubling Farmers’ Income 69% increase in income (Rs. 89,300/- to Rs. 1,51,200/-). • Family Poultry Model: Backyard poultry with Vanaraja chickens (20) gave net income of Rs.13650/- in 9 months; Established 20 Women SHGs for Rural Poultry based Farming Systems • Gender Sensitive Entrepreneurship Model through Institute-Industry-Stakeholders Linkage in Convergence Mode in dairy, horticulture and farm implements sectors. • Integrated homestead aquaculture with special focus on production of small indigenous fishes • Agri-Nutri (GSAN) Farming System Model for enhancing nutrition with a multi-stake holder value chain. • Improved goat farming system model and Dairy farming system model involving gender friendly complete package of practices • Multi Agency Participatory Extension Model (MAPEM) for promotion of backyard poultry by rural women. Introduced in participatory action research mode in four villages of Khorda district of Odisha. • Resource Efficient Horticulture Model for improved nutrition and income of Smallholders 201 Agricultural Education 201 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • ‘DRWA Hand Operated Maize Dehusker-sheller’: Reduced drudgery by 48.9% and increasing efficiency of operation.