3 Contribution/donations under CSR reflects voluntary contribution and contributor(s) cannot prescribe any particular deliverable benefit or item or impose their area of interest in exchange from ICAR for contributions. 6. Admissible Activities under CSR 6.1 The Schedules VII of the Companies Act, 2013 provides an umbrella of the activities that can be taken up through CSR. The same could be further broken into specifics of Sciences and Technology and agricultural extension. 6.2 Fortunately, the Schedule does specify the Scientific Research and agricultural extension as an admissible activity. This activity also enjoys the exemptions under the Income Tax rules. 6.3 The provisions of the Schedule VII of Companies Act, 2013 and the mandate of ICAR have been analyzed. 6.4 The following areas may be considered under CSR activities. Sr. No. Activities R&D Activities which can be supported under CSR* 1. Eradicating extreme hunger and poverty • Research and Agricultural Extension/Education Funding which help in enhancing availability, access and affordability of food item 7 Sr. No. Activities R&D Activities which can be supported under CSR* • Capacity building and income augmentation through skilling of farmers and scientists and other stakeholders • Seed and planting materials research which helps livelihood improvement • R&D for diversification of farm activities for higher income • Livelihood projects creating rainwater harvesting structures and maintenance of water bodies,etc. 2. Promotion of education • Infrastructure like class rooms, buildings, sports complexes, libraries, etc for higher agricultural education • Construction of Hostels, SC/ ST/girls Hostels, • Modernization of Classrooms • Experiential Leaning Centers, • Support for repair, extension etc. of auditorium and educational institutions 3. Promoting gender equality and empowering women • R&D for farm tools for women farmers • Capacity building of women farmers • Development of gender friendly farm equipments 8 Sr. No. Activities R&D Activities which can be supported under CSR* • Women farmers/trainees hostels in KVKs, • Women entrepreneur’s training by KVKs 4. Reducing child mortality and improving maternal health • R&D projects on health foods; and biofortification of food crops • Awareness and capacity building of women farmers for homestead food like nutri- thali, nutrigarden • Food systems and product diversification • Establishment of centre of excellence on natural food products in tribal areas 5. Combating human immunodeficiency virus, acquired immune deficiency syndrome, malaria and other diseases • Development of vaccines against viral diseases in livestock • Swachchata Initiatives in ICAR institutes and KVKs • Development of nutraceuticals from sea wastes/fish wastes 6.