 Vermicomposting, whey utilisation, straw enrichment, wastewater recycling, cotton waste and fisheries waste management among others were promoted through various field and farm activities undertaken during the Pakhwada. Vermicomposting/ Composting of biodegradable waste management & other technologies on generation of wealth for waste was demonstrated at 756 locations, 204 events were organized to demonstrate the application of waste water for agricultural use. 38 special swachhta workshops were organized for the benefit of staff, farmers and general public. Different activities related to Swachh Baharat Mission were taken up in 3,527 villages involving 13,987 officers and staff members from various ICAR Institutes and KVKs. Poster competitions/ essay competitions/debates were organized at 123 places. Based on the performance of the Institutions, awards (first, second and third) have been given to the outstanding performers in the competitions held for the three categories i.e., the offices in ICAR (Hq), ICAR Research Institutes and KVKs. ICAR Awards 2016 On 16 July 2017, the 89th Foundation Day of ICAR, the ICAR Awards for 2016 were presented to the winners in a major function organized at NASC, Complex, Pusa, New Delhi. The awards were given in 19 different categories to 122 awardees, comprising 3 Institutes, two AICRPs, 12 KVKs, 80 scientists, which included 13 women scientists and 19 farmers. ❑ 17. Partnership and Linkages DARE The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture in December 1973. The DARE coordinates and promotes agricultural research and education in the country. DARE provides the necessary government linkages for the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), the premier research organisation for co- ordinating, guiding and managing research and education in agriculture including horticultural, fisheries and animal sciences in the entire country. Apart from ICAR the Department of Agricultural Research and Education has more autonomous body, viz. the Central Agricultural Universities in Imphal (Manipur), Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh) and Pusa (Bihar) under its administrative control; and is wholly financed by the Government of India. DARE is the nodal agency for International Cooperation in the area of agricultural research and education in India. The Department liaises with foreign governments, United Nations, CGIAR and other multilateral agencies for cooperation in various areas of agricultural research. DARE also coordinates admissions of foreign students in various Indian agriculture universities/ ICAR Institutes. Memoranda of understandings/agreements/work plans • A Declaration of Intent was signed between the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of the State of Israel and the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare of the Republic of India for Cooperation in the field of agriculture on 11 November 2016.