 A hyperspectral big data constitutes a large number of narrow continuous spectral bands throughout the visible, near-infrared, and mid-infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The very high spectral resolution of these hyperspectral data facilitates in finer discrimination of target materials using the spectral response from each narrow band. A 3-D representation of hyperspectral data is shown in Figure 29. In the 3-D cube, the X and Y denote the spatial data while the spectral bands are denoted by Z-axis. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Big Data is often defined in following terms- e Volume - the amount of data generated, stored and analysed. The amount of data stored determines the level of insight that can be obtained from that data. e Variety - type and nature of data. Historically data was structured and from a single source - in which case it would fit readily into 'columns' and 'rows'. Increasingly data is sourced from a variety of sources with many different formats e Velocity - the speed at which data is generated and processed. Where historically data could reasonably be expected to be uploaded via a daily 'batch' process now data is measured in thousands or even millions of transactions per minute. e Veracity- Addresses the quality and reliability of the data. e Value- Focuses on extracting meaningful insights and value from the data. The value of big data usually comes from insight discovery and pattern recognition. Batch Data Storage Processing Analytics ETare| reporting Data Machine Analytical Sources learning data store Real-time Stream message ingestion processing Orchestration (Source: Microsoft Azure) Figure 28: Big Data Architecture 3.3.1. Big Data and Machine Learning for Hyperspectral Data Unlike destructive techniques, hyperspectral imaging combined with ML regression models provides a non-destructive, non-invasive, near-real-time, efficient, and robust method for the estimation of crop biophysical and biochemical traits. This technology proved to be promising for plant phenotyping that incorporates indoor (controlled environment) and outdoor (field- scale) phenotyping. A hyperspectral big data constitutes a large number of narrow continuous spectral bands throughout the visible, near-infrared, and mid-infrared portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. The very high spectral resolution of these hyperspectral data facilitates in finer discrimination of target materials using the spectral response from each narrow band. A 3-D representation of hyperspectral data is shown in Figure 29. In the 3-D cube, the X and Y denote the spatial data while the spectral bands are denoted by Z-axis.