 Besides grain sorghum genotypes, forage sorghum and sweet sorghum cultivars are being developed under AICSIP (All India Co-ordinated Sorghum Improvement Program). The cytoplasmic-genetic male sterility, induced by interaction of sterility-inducing factors in the cytoplasm with the genetic factors contained in the nucleus, forms the basis of hybrid seed production. The successful development and spread of sorghum hybrids and varieties have made a significant impact on the productivity of this crop. The private sector gained considerably from the hybrid seed production and marketing of sorghum hybrids. In fact, the largest volume of hybrid seeds sold earlier was for sorghum and pearl millet hybrids. A country’s advancement on the farm front is gauged by its efficiency in quality seed production and distribution. Without the use of good quality seed, the investments incurred on fertilizers, pesticides and water will not play dividend that ought to be realized. Seed is the key input in modern agriculture as the quality of seed determines the quantum output of a crop. The high quality seed in terms of high genetic and physical purity, healthiness, high germination, vigour and viability assures the potential of crop production under suitable and favourable agro-climatic conditions. The genetically pure seed of a variety is expected to have all the unique economic and diagnostic characters. In often cross pollinated species like sorghum inbred lines and varieties, the deterioration will be faster due to contamination with undesirable pollen of other genotypes. The quality of the certified seed class of a hybrid or variety depends on the maintenance of genetic Indian Farming 73 (01): 79-83; January 2023 Indian Farming 80 January 2023 purity, physical purity, seed health, vigour, and viability potential during total seed production chain. Hybrid (A × R) seed production Sorghum hybrid seed production is a highly commercial venture. It is essential to maintain efficient level of crop management in order to maximize production at minimum cost. The hybrid seed is produced as certified seed under the vigilance of state seed certification agencies on a very large scale by private agencies, seed farms, experienced growers, and other extension organizations. Sorghum hybrids involve A × R seed production and are carried out according to the prescribed standards of production and processing in terms of isolation distance, genetic purity, and seed quality. Seed certification and seed law enforcement agencies have an important role to play in certified hybrid seed production and distribution, because the crop performance is dependent on the quality of the certified seed used. Although production of hybrid seed can be carried out by small individual growers, it is convenient to grow it in large compact blocks of 100–150 ha in a single or cluster of adjoining villages to avoid isolation problems.