 Fertilizer management At the time of planting, well decomposed cattle manure or compost @ 25-30 t/ha has to be applied either by broadcasting over the beds prior to planting or applied in the pits at the time of planting. Application of neem cake @ 2 t/ha at the time of planting helps in reducing the incidence of rhizome rot disease/ nematode and increasing the yield. As the soil fertility will be varying with the soil type, agroecological conditions or management systems, site specific nutrient management based on the soil test results for major nutrient is advocated. The fertilizers are to be applied in 2 - 3 split doses. Full dose of phosphorus is applied as basal at the time of planting. Equal split doses of N and K is top dressed at 45, 90 (and 120) DAP. In zinc deficient soils, basal application of zinc fertilizer up to 6 kg zinc/ha (30 kg of zinc sulphate/ha) gives good yield. Foliar application of micronutrient mixture specific to ginger is also recommended (dosage @ 5 g/L) twice, 60 and 90 DAP, for higher yield. Mulching Mulching the beds with green leaves/organic wastes is essential to prevent soil splashing and erosion of soil due to heavy rain. It also adds organic matter to the soil, checks weed emergence and conserves moisture during the latter part of the cropping season. The first mulching is done at the time of planting with green leaves @ 10- 12 tonnes/ha. Application of dried coconut leaves after removing the petiole or paddy straw (2-3 kg/bed) as mulch in ginger is also recommended for effective weed control. Green leaf mulching is to be repeated @ 7.5 tonnes/ha at Rhizome characters of IISR Vajra IISR Vajra – Rhizomes with yellow inner core colour Indian Horticulture 16 45 and 90 days after planting, immediately after weeding, application of fertilizers and earthing up. Irrigation Ginger is cultivated as rainfed crop in high rainfall areas (uniform distribution for 5 to 7 months) and irrigated crop in less rainfall areas where distribution is not uniform. Ginger requires 1300-1500 mm of water during its crop cycle. The critical stages for irrigation are during germination, rhizome initiation (90 DAP) and rhizome development stages (135 DAP). The first irrigation should be done immediately after planting a n d s u b s e q u e n t i r r i g a t i o n s a r e g i v e n a t intervals of 7 to 10 days in conventional irrigation (based on prevailing weather and soil type). Sprinklers and drip system can also be employed for better water-use efficiency and enhanced yield. Inter cultivation Weeding is done just before fertilizer application and mulching; 2-3 hand weeding are required depending on the intensity of weed growth. Proper drainage channels are to be provided when there is stagnation of water. Earthing up is essential to prevent exposure of rhizomes and provide sufficient soil volume for free development of rhizomes. It is done at 45 and 90 days after planting immediately after weeding and application of fertilizers.