 About 5-6 days after planting, 300- 350 sheep are collected on 1 acre land, and they are made to stay there for a Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Content SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2908 Animal penning in fields to increase fertility day. The next day dung is spread uniformly in the field. Three days after the sheep penning, small furrows are made and water is provided through sprinklers to make the nutrients of urine and dung to reach the planting depth. In this activity heat is generated and hormones responsible for germination are activated. Overflooding is avoided. After 3-4 days of this exercise, fast germination of sugarcane starts and uniform plant population is obtained. Keywords: sheep penning, sandy loam soil, urine, dung Farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur villages take services of yadav and gaderiya communities to increase the fertility of land. Animals of whole community are collected during slake period (summer) and the record of each animal is kept by marking on the back. Marking is done by locally available colouring material, which lasts for a long time. On the fields, animals of yadav and gaderiya community are penned for whole night, where they discharge urine and dung. During summer this practice is followed. Animal keepers are contacted at least a week before penning. For penning in fields, animal keepers take grains and money. During daytime the animal keepers set them free to graze around rivers, ponds and dams, so that their need of water is also fulfilled. After penning, the dung is spread uniformly in the field and the field is irrigated to spread the urine uniformly. Afterwards desi plough is run in the field. Herders keep the record of every cow and pregnant animals. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: penning, fertility, urine, dung Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh)791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content Farm Implements Code Title of the ITK No.