 Research and development strategies to overcome the major constraints: For kharif, high productivity, grain mold resistance and possibly mechanical combine harvest may minimize losses and keep sorghum competitive. Hybrids with additional traits and suitable crop canopy are now required to overcome the production problems. ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) is targeting to develop a cafeteria of cultivars to choose for different situations and specific uses. Intercropping systems and improving cropping intensity: Climate change issues in terms of fluctuating monsoonal rains both in quantum and distribution calls for risk mitigating approaches through intercropping systems that help optimize sorghum production. Combining photosensitive pigeon pea with improved and early maturing sorghum hybrids had been successful across Maharashtra and Karnataka. Development of erect leaved sorghum hybrids with greater yield potential will help decrease the competition among intercrops and thus improve the overall productivity of the systems. Combining cereal–pulse intercropping also helps addressing the sustainability and soil health issues in the long term. Summer cultivation of sorghum: Due to dry summer weather, grains are highly priced owing to clean and superior grain quality and have tremendous scope for export purposes. Summer sorghum caters the needs of fodder during peak shortages. Strategies to optimize genotype performance by nutrient interactions can also help stabilize the yield potential in summer. Individual State Governments across the southern states of Maharashtra, Karnataka and Telangana have been promoting various irrigation projects to expand the irrigated area thus facilitating the local farmers. Expansion of irrigated tracts will help promote food crops that have greater potential in terms of productivity especially during summer season. Red sorghum for feed and export: Specialized red kharif sorghum cultivars for grain export to international market are another emerging opportunity. In order to meet the feed demand in high rainfall regions, red grain sorghum is targeted as potential raw material for poultry which imparts rich yellowness to yolk of egg. These are more tolerant to grain molds and breeding programmes are targeting development of red grain sorghum cultivars with early maturity, combining tolerance to grain molds and major pests in high yield background. Rabi sorghum Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu are the major states where rabi sorghum is extensively cultivated. Over the years, rabi sorghum area has remained stable as it is cultivated as dual- purpose crop, for grain and fodder purposes.