 Crude protein content in two types of vinegar of jamun prepared through sun-drying and boiling (dry weight basis) Vinegar type Crude protein content (g/100 ml) Fermented by sun-drying 0.153 Fermented by boiling 0.241 prepared with the use of chemical was used as the control. The results revealed that in the fermenta- tion done by boiling, organoleptic characteristitcs like aroma, taste and overall acacetability were rated higher than the other two methods.The data further reveal that overall acceptability of control sample and vinegar fermented by sun-drying were equally liked by the people. Laboratory analysis Chemical analysis for estimating the content of crude protein in respect of two types of vinegar of jamun, i.e. fermentation through sun-drying and fermentation through boiling was done. Results are presented in Table 3. (laboratory analysis was done at Department of Animal Nutrition, Ranchi Veterinary College, Ranchi) CONCLUSION Vinegar of jamun prepared by fermentation through sun-drying was found to be acceptable. FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code : 1713 Title of the ITK : Indigenous pudding - futka Description of the ITK : Futka is highly nutritious and used during special occasions. Preparation of food (pudding) is very simple. About 1 kg milk is kept on the stove in a container to boil and slowly grinded mahua (1 kg) is added in it with addition of ragi flour (ź kg) in medium heat till it water evaporates, and then it is cooked under steam heat for 15 minutes. The practice is followed in Chainpur village of Dumari Block of Gumla district (Jharkhand) and has potential for its spread in other similar areas, where mahua is abundantly available. It has been found more proteinous and rich source of energy in comparison to other locally available food materials. Cost:benefit is 1:6 approximately. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Binita Kujur, C/o Dr N. Bara, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Chainpur, Chainpur, Gumla (Jharkhand) Geographical indicators : Mahua (Madhuca indica) is a large deciduous tree with rather shorter bole, but large crown. Leaves 12_25 cm long, thick leathery pointed at top, nerves quite prominent. Flowers small, fleshy, pale or dull white in clusters near the ends of branches, stalks of flowers bent downwards, covered with brownish hair. Flowers strongly musk-scented, falling at dawn. Fruit 2.5_5 cm long, freshly greenish, seeds 1_4, brown shining, 2.5_3.5 cm long. It occurs in all the plains and lower tills of India upto 1200 m, it is very common in sub-mountain regions of the Himalaya, and is, at certain places, a chief constituent of the forest vegetation. Experimenters : Dr (Ms.) N. Bara, Scientist, Department of Extension Education, Dr R.P. Singh "Ratan", Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006, Dr (Ms.