 The physiological disorders are the result of malfunction and dysfunction of the physiological processes of the fruit tissues. Fruit cracking is the major pre-harvest physiological disorder of most of horticultural crops, mainly occurring due to sudden changes in the temperature as well as due to moisture stress conditions. Fruit crops like litchi, pomegranate, guava, daisy tangerine and lemon cv. Baramasi are highly susceptible to fruit cracking incidence that deteriorate their market acceptability. The average loss due to fruit cracking ranges from 50-85%. Fruit cracking may occur during fruit growth, development and ripening stage. Fruit cracking may be radial or transverse in nature. Basically there are three different types of cracking in fruit crops which included circular or semi-circular, around the stem and in the cavity, at the apical end of the fruits. This disorder affects the appearance of fruits, increase water loss and susceptability to infection by pathogens such as Aspergillus, Pencillium, etc. Cracked fruits are also susceptible to mechanical injury. Factors responsible for cracking It is believed that the problem is caused by a combination of various factors rather than a single factor. There may be following reasons for fruit cracking: Environmental factors: Fluctuations in temperature, light and humidity play an important role in fruit cracking. In case of semi arid and arid zones, low relative humidity and more temperature are the major environmental factors that are responsible for fruit cracking eg. Litchi. In general, there is linear increase in fruit cracking with the increase in temperature from 10 to 40°C. However, temperature also influenced many other factors like permeability of the cell wall and biochemical processes of the cell. For example, litchi, sweet cherry and citrus. Mineral nutrients: Deficiency of calcium and boron is responsible for fruit cracking in pomegranate, litchi and cherry. In addition, the nutritional imbalances, low K and Ca and high P leads to fruit cracking incidence in some citrus fruits. Imbalances of P and K application cause weak or thin rind. The nutrients both in deficient or excessive range indirectly lead to increased chances of fruit cracking. Hormonal imbalances: Fruit growth and development mainly depend upon the hormonal content of fruit. Fruit cultivars with low natural endogenous level of hormones are more prone to cracking disorder. GA mainly influences the fruit cracking percentage in fruit crops based on application time. At the time of flowering, application of GA3 increases the fruit cracking in citrus. At the fruit development stage, pollinated seeds serve as source of hormones. However, in case of split prone cultivars of mandarins such as ‘Nova’ and Ellendale’ are weakly parthenocarpic in nature, leading to decreasing the rind thickness and Technology Cracked fruits: a) Daisy, b) Litchi, c) Guava, d) Pomegranate a c b d July–August 2023 55 increasing the fruit cracking.