30 and partially reclaimed sodic soils of pH 9.2, respectively and found more effective than CSR-Bio. Plastic mulching in oil palm was effective in enhancing water-use efficiency as it recorded almost comparable yields with micro jet irrigation. Plastic mulching was effective in saving 25% water in drought conditions. Thematic maps were developed for soil suitability for grape growing in Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh and West Bengal. These maps will be useful for the identification of regions suitable for growing grapes in non-traditional areas and for round the year availability. Tomato cultivars Kashi Aman and Kashi Adarsh tolerated moderate salinity when grafted over brinjal rootstocks. Climate change and resilient agriculture: Carbon sequestration potential of the floodplain wetlands was assessed in Assam and West Bengal. In Assam wetlands, C deposit up to 30 cm depth of soil was higher (1.7 to 4.2 times) than in the reference upland sites. The estimated C in wetlands of West Bengal revealed higher accumulation (1.67 to 2.3 times) than corresponding upland sites. The carbon footprint was assessed in different rice production systems (zero-till, aerobic and shallow lowland) through total life cycle analysis. The study revealed that aerobic rice emitted lowest total GHG-C-eq/tonne followed by ZTR and SLR, respectively. For production of one tonne of rice, the GHG emissions were 0.73, 0.76 and 0.87 C-eq/tonne in ZTR, AR and SLR, respectively. A multiple-stress tolerant rice variety Swarna Samriddhi Dhan was notified and released for cultivation in lowland ecosystem of Bihar. Swarna Samriddhi Dhan is a medium duration, high-yielding, multiple-stress (drought, 1. Overview ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 1 ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 2 OVERVIEW submergence, disease and insect pests) tolerant, with desirable cooking quality traits and has long slender grains. A drought-tolerant rice variety Swarna Sukha Dhan was released for cultivation in drought-prone upland ecology of Uttar Pradesh. Swarna Sukha Dhan is a short duration, high- yielding and multiple-stress (drought, diseases and insect pests) tolerant with acceptable cooking quality traits. The impact of adoption of Low Tunnel Technologies (LTT) for cultivation of vegetables during off season (winter) in Bikaner, Rajasthan was assessed. LTT for vegetable production has spread over 1,200 ha and farmers earn ` 2–3 lakh net profit from one ha per season depending on type of vegetable, seed quality, climatic conditions and marketing demand. The resilience to heat stress in different indigenous goat breeds (Salem Black, Malabari, Osmanabadi, Kanni Aadu and Kodi Aadu) was assessed.