 The rural agro industries based projects must belong to the people and it would be run for the greater benefit of the society and nation at large. The role of the state would be to help in setting up the industry by giving finance, technical expertise and other needed supports. This is a very similar model that is being implemented by many government schemes. The financial support and technical guidance is offered by the government institutions while the people, either individuals or a group of people create and own the facility. The benefits of such a facility is enjoyed by all in the localised ecosystem. The accrued benefits include the employment generation, raw material cost realization for the agricultural produce and the profit sharing by the partners of the unit. The custom hiring centers (CHCs) for farm machinery hiring purposes, the agro-clinics for input supplies to the farms and the Agro-Processing Centres (APCs) for processing a specific or group of agricultural commodities are the type of public-private partnership mode based successful models promoted and implemented by ICAR and other government agencies. 179 2.5. Gandhian Philosophy on Animal Husbandry Animal Ethics, as proposed by world countries, focuses on the use of animals for the intensive production of milk and meat and eggs and poultry, extensive production of feedstuffs for animals, and impacts on the environment due to intensive and concentrated production. The welfare of animals is an important underlying concept and need to be addressed in an animal husbandry unit. Gandhian philosophy on animal ethics is totally different from the normal animal ethics around the world. He spent nearly 30 years on elaborating an economically viable and religiously conforming animal husbandry system. He had a very strong conviction and ethical and moral principle that animals should never be slaughtered for meat purposes. He wanted that a scheme to recognize this on a national scale should be initiated. Gandhiji’s critical interpretation of cow- protection, advocated by Hinduism, leads to a general reflection on the duty of non-violence. The approach, adopted by Gandhiji, in solving the problem of cow-protection focuses on its practical dimensions and is based primarily on reforming animal husbandry. Mother cow is, in many ways, better than the mother who gave us birth. Our mother gives us milk for a couple of years but cows offer milk to human kind year after year till near the end. Gandhiji further stated, “I would not kill a human being for protection of a cow, as I will not kill a cow for saving a human life, be it ever so precious”. In his total commitment to nonviolence, Gandhiji always included the animals, stating, “The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way its animals are treated.” 2.6. Gandhiji on Cooperative Farming Mahatma Gandhi’s experiences with cooperative farming started during his stay in South Africa.