 The purpose of this division was to clarify recent changes and variability on space (sub- basin and districts) over time (past and present periods). This analysis was used to determine the severity of risk over space and time on the GRB for the past 40 y. This was also be used to test the extent of the research hypothesis (“dry becomes drier and wet becomes wetter”) over different successive time frames. Moreover, a large ensemble of high- resolution gridded data (d4PDF) was used to investigate the impacts of climate change on future drought occurrences during the 21st century in the GRB under optimistic and pessimistic warming scenarios, under the influence of the worst-case climate change scenario (RCP8.5). The drought indices were used to estimate the level of drought risk by ana­ lysing drought hazard, vulnerability, and exposure. The results were used to identify the most vulnerable drought risk zones and evaluate the risks associated with crop production and the economy of farming communities. The potential impacts on crop production and economy on the most vulnerable regions were then determined, and they can be used to develop and implement effective risk mitigation strategies. Climate change impact assessment using drought analysis SPI and SPEI are used as monitoring tools and to investigate the occurrences of drought events. They can be calculated at any timescale but are usually calculated over 1, 3, 6, 12, and 24 months, and can be applied to meteorological, hydrological, and agricultural drought phe­ nomena (Kumar et al., 2021b). Drought calculated using 6- and 12- month timescales are the most useful to investigate agriculture droughts and hydrological droughts, respectively (Beguería et al., 2010; Musei et al., 2021; Niranjan Kumar et al., 2013; Ripin et al., 1989; Vicente-Serrano et al., 2010b). Many researchers have analysed the drought conditions at 12-month timescale in India (Gupta et al., 2020; Kumar et al., 2021a). Because, In India, a major portion of annual Table 1 Data type and sources.