 Thripspalmitranscriptome ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 129 SOCIAL SCIENCE for evaluation of developed methodologies. Analysis of high-dimensional-gene-set-data: ICAR- IASRI proposed an innovative statistical approach and tool, namely GSQSeq (Gene Set analysis with QTL sequences), to analyze gene sets with genetically rich trait data, such as QTL which is an improvement over the existing GSVQ and GSAQ (Gene Set Analysis with QTL) methods, as it considers the DE (differentially expressed) scores of the genes in the gene list in performing GSA with the QTLs. In GSQSeq approach, the statistically meaningful and biologically interpretable p-values are assigned to each gene set, which profoundly describes the trait enrichment of the gene sets. Developed a package GSQSeq that is available in https://github.com/ sam-uofl/GSQSeq. This software can analyze the gene sets for GE datasets derived from expression studies including microarrays and RNA-seq. For microarray GE data, four different gene selection methods, such as t- test, F-score, Maximum Relevance and Minimum Redundancy (MRMR), and Support Vector Machine (SVM) techniques, are implemented for the selection of relevant gene sets from the high-dimensional GE data. Analysis of single-cell RNA-sequencing data: A novel statistical approach for various analyses of the scRNA-seq Unique Molecular Identifier (UMI) counts data, was developed. The various analyses include modelling and fitting of observed UMI data, cell type detection, estimation of cell capture rates, estimation of gene specific model parameters, estimation of the sample mean and sample variance of the genes, etc. Besides, the developed approach is able to perform differential expression, and other downstream analyses that consider the molecular capture process in scRNA-seqdata modelling. Here, the external spike-ins data can also be used in the approach for better results. Its unique feature is that it considers the biological process that leads to severe dropout events in modelling the observed UMI counts of the genes. Biological Databases/Webservers/Algorithms developed • A machine learning-based method for prediction of GIGANTEA proteins was developed. Based on the proposed model, the web server “GIpred” was established—http://cabgrid.res.in:8080/gipred. • Black Pepper Drought Transcriptome Database (BPDRTDb), is freely accessible for academic use at http://webtom.cabgrid.res.in/bpdrtdb. This transcriptome characterizations of black pepper genotype and its web resource will serve as valuable resources for new genes discovery as well as developing SSR markers in endeavour of higher crop production. Putative markers can also be a reliable genomic resource to develop drought tolerant variety for better black pepper productivity.