 The major focus of ICAR in the coming years shall be to mainstream Gandhian thoughts in all its research and development endeavours and to uphold agricultural sustainability, conservation of agro-biodiversity and natural resource management, as a prime focus for all newer farm technologies. 5. Conclusion The structure of ICAR, with various subject matter divisions, comprising an array of commodity or domain specific research institutions, and a nation-wide network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) is a reflection of Gandhian idea on self-reliance and creating local 143 institutions. Gandhiji’s economic principles are relevant in the context of Gandhiji’s view of gram swaraj (village self-rule). He thought that the lives of farmers and labourers are the best. The farmer, for him, was the central point, and the only sustainable social order was a rural society. Any system, be it agriculture or non-agriculture as we have today characterized by urbanization and centralized production, requires huge and intensive resources but they are concentrated only in fewer hands. A rural society with more equitably distributed income and resources, as visualized by Gandhiji, would greatly reduce farm distress. The Green Revolution ushered in an element of self-reliance at the macro-level by bringing in two types of technologies: bio-chemical technology (involving fertilizers and seeds), and agro- mechanical technology (involving mechanization of agriculture). These technologies work for water-rich areas, but half of the districts in India are rain-fed. There are three types of agrarian economies: 1. Subsistence agriculture economy where farmers grow enough for themselves without a marketable surplus. 2. Commercial agriculture, where farmers produce certain crops for the market but keep their own food system intact by growing their inputs. 3. Marketized agriculture – which is cash-based to buy every input from the seeds to water, tractor, fertilizers, etc., and it is most risky and distressing. A farmer borrows cash, spends to buy inputs, and faces the risk of crop loss due to rain-fed farming. In such a scenario, if a crop fails, he gets stuck in debt. Gandhiji saw the subsistence and commercial agriculture models as viable in broad sense since the cash pay-out and the risks are minimal. Indian agriculture can prosper much more sustainably when agriculture, agro-industry and non-farm cottage industry are developed holistically in rural areas. “Based on the most advanced principles of biological science, we can probably claim to have developed a Gandhian Agriculture, because this would be an agriculture, where Gandhian concepts become manifested in the form of an advanced rural economy, benefiting all sections of the community. Also, this will be an agriculture, which enriches and not harms the environment.