 International co-operation in the field of agricultural research and education including relations with foreign and in- ternational agricultural research and educational institutions and organizations, including participation in international confer- ences, associations and other bodies dealing with agricultural research and education and follow-up of decisions at such inter- national conferences, etc. 2. Fundamental, applied and operational research and higher education including co-ordination of such research and higher education in agriculture including agroforestry, animal hus- bandry, dairying and fisheries, including agricultural statistics, economics and marketing. 3. Co-ordination and determination of standards in insti- tutions for higher education or research and scientific and tech- nical institutions insofar as it relates to food and agriculture including animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries. 4. Cesses for financing to the Indian Council of Agricul- tural Research, and the Commodity Research programmes other than those relating to tea, coffee and rubber. 5. Sugarcane research. PART II For Union Territories the subjects mentioned in Part I above so far as they exist in regard to these territories and in (A) DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH AND EDUCATION APPENDIX I The Government of India (Allocation of Business) Rules The Second Schedule (Rule 3) (A) Distribution of Subjects in the Department (Vibhag), Ministry of Agriculture (Krishi Mantralaya) (B) Department of Agricultural Research and Education (Krishi Anusandhan aur Shiksha Vibhag) addition the following subject which falls within List II of the Seventh Schedule of the Constitution of India. 6. Agricultural education and research. PART III General and consequential: 7. All matters relating to foreign aid received from for- eign countries and International Organizations in sofaras agricul- tural research and education and allied subjects are concerned, including all matters relating to assistance afforded by India to foreign countries in the field of agricultural research and educa- tion and allied subjects. 8. Plant introduction and exploration. 9. All-India Soil and Land-Use Survey relating to re- search, training, correlation, classification, soil mapping and in- terpretation. 10. Financial assistance to state governments and agricul- tural universities in respect of agricultural research and educa- tional schemes and programmes. 11. National Demonstrations. 12. Indian Council of Agricultural Research and its con- stituent research institutes, stations, laboratories and centres. 13. Offences against laws with respect to any of the sub- jects allotted to this Department. 14. Enquiries and statistics for the purpose of any of the subjects allotted to this Department. 15. Fees in respect of any of the subjects allotted to this Department except fees taken in a court. 230 e:\icar.c3\jan02\02-015\02015-18.pm5 (09/10.02.02)(15/15.02.