 All these ingredients are mixed well and made into small balls. It is fed orally to the cattle. Keywords: tympany, moringa, Shri Thangarasu S/o Shri Verramuthu, Devendrapuram, P.O Pamani, Taluka Mannargudi, Tiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) 614 014  salt, butter milk, garlic, soda 2303 Use of edible oil to cure tympany in animals Farmers of north Solapur of Solapur district drench edible oil to cure tympany in animals. Sometimes when animals are allowed free grazing, they voraciously feed too much of green forage, toxic weeds or unwanted materials. After eating they feel uneasy and may die due to bloating of stomach. To cure this, farmers use feeding of 250 ml edible oil to animals. Keywords: tympany, free grazing, toxic weeds Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2554 Treatment for jake fever In Jammu region jake fever is common in animals and for controlling this, about 2 kg radish (Raphanus sativus) is mixed with 150 g ajwain and 200 g jaggery and fed to the ailing animals once a day, continuously for three days. This treatment is followed by the farmers of Nagri area of Kathua district (Jammu and Kashmir). Keywords: jake fever, radish, ajwain Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2694 Use of copper coin for curing tympany (afara) in animals. Afara is a general problem in animals, which occurs with the accumulation of excessive gas in the stomach. For treatment of afara, people of Salki area of Rajouri district (Jammu and Kashmir) dip copper coin in normal water and then boil. The copper treated water is then mixed with wheat flour and fed to the animals. This practice cures the animal totally. Keywords: copper coin, afara/tympany, wheat flour Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2576 Use of a mixture of hathiyachigar with aphim (poppy), mustard oil and belladonna leaves to cure bath disease of animals Sometimes a part of animal's body gets swollen with fever and the animal feels uneasy and does not take fodder. Farmers call it bath disease. About 1 kg leaf of hathiyachighar is crushed to take out extract, and it is boiled in a pot with 10 g aphim (poppy) and Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 about 500 ml mustard oil until the resultant mixture is about 500 g.