 Similarly, various soil and water conservation measures and drainage line treatments are suggested to improve water resource and soil moisture of the block/district/region. Case studies Some examples and case studies where soil resource information by NBSS & LUP has contributed to sustainable management in rainfed regions are discussed below. Climate-smart land use recommendations in Maharashtra One of the notable contributions of the Bureau Digital soil map generation Parcel-wise advisory containing the survey number-wise soil potentials/constraints along with crop options for the farmers in local language (marathi) Indian Farming 12 January 2025 involved is the formulation of parcel-level crop advisories, nutrient management plan and contingency plans for climate-smart agriculture. This is the first-of- its-kind exercise attempted for 5,000 villages covering 51 clusters spread across 16 districts of Maharashtra. The soils were classified based on their depth and moisture-holding capacity. For instance, in districts like Pune, Satara, and Ahmednagar, large areas exhibit shallow, coarse-textured soils with limited moisture retention, with underlying limitations of these soils for intensive cultivation. Parcel-level (survey number-wise) recommendations were made for crop selection, nutrient management and climate-smart measures such as crop diversification, conservation tillage and in-situ moisture conservation practices to mitigate the effects of erratic rainfall. Adoption of these techniques, would result in enhanced productivity for rainfed crops like sorghum, pulses, and oilseeds, which are well-suited to these soil and climatic conditions. District contingency plans The District Agriculture Contingency Plans (DACPs) for rainfed districts, developed by CRIDA in collaboration with NBSS&LUP and other ICAR institutes, SAUs, Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), State Agriculture Departments, focuses on enhancing resilience to climate variability and addressing the unique challenges of rainfed agriculture. The DACP integrates agro-climatic data, detailed soil information from NBSS&LUP, soil health and cropping patterns to suggest adaptive strategies. Vulnerable areas were identified based on soil properties such as poor water- holding capacity and fertility. Key components include alternative cropping systems, soil and water conservation practices, and real-time weather-based advisories. The plan promotes livelihood diversification, efficient water management, and soil health improvement. Livelihood diversification through horticulture and agroforestry, along with real-time weather advisories, help farmers make informed decisions leading to increased crop yields increase and income. It also emphasizes on the capacity building, extension services, and ICT tools for sustainable rainfed agriculture, ensuring food security amidst changing climatic conditions.