 It can be easily multiplied by stem cutting and air layering. Vegetatively propagated plants produce fruits within two years while seedling takes 4-5 years to fruits. Natal plum can be planted as hedge like karonda. Regular pruning is required to restrain the size of plant and increase yield. It usually flowers in April–May and September–October in Bengaluru conditions but few flowers may be seen around the year. The flowers are snowy white, scented and larger than karonda. Fruits are plumpy, oblong - round, 2-3 cm long and 1-2 cm wide, crimson red coloured and sweet. The fruit are rich in carbohydrates, vitamins and minerals (Table 1). The fruit can be eaten fresh or used to prepare jams, jellies, and sauces. The fruit has potential to improve nutrition, boost food security and support sustainable land development. Kumquat Hongkong kumquat (Fortunella hindsii Swingle syn. Citrus hindsi), belongs to the sub-family Aurantioideae of the Rutaceae. It is slow-growing, shrubby, compact, 2-4 m tall tree. The branches are light-green and angled when young, with a few spines. The fruit is oval-oblong or round, 1.6-4 cm wide. The fruit rind is golden-yellow to reddish-orange and edible. The pulp is acid to subacid and contains small seeds. Kumquats are believed to be native to China. The various kumquats are distinguished as botanical species rather than as cultivars. Kumquat requires moderate temperature ranging from 26 to 37º C, but could withstand frost. Kumquats are rarely grown from seed as they do not do well on their own roots. They are usually grafted onto the trifoliate orange. Kumquats are planted at 1.5-2 m distance. For pot culture, they can not be allowed to become pot-bound, and need sufficient watering and nutrition. Fresh kumquats can be eaten raw and preserved whole in sugar syrup. Kumquats are excellent for making marmalade. The fruit may be pickled by merely packing in jars of water, vinegar, and salt. Hog plum Hog plum (Spondias mombin L.) is medium sized tree which belongs to family Anacardiaceae. It is native to southern Mexico to Peru and Brazil and common in moist lowland forests. The leaves are deciduous, alternate, pinnate, 20-45 cm long with 5-15 cm long leaflets. The flowers are small, fragrant, whitish, borne in panicles of 15-30 cm long and attract lot of bees. The fruits are borne in clusters aromatic, ovoid or oblong, 3-4 cm long and up to 2.5 cm wide. The fruits are golden-yellow coloured with thin, tough skin, very juicy pulp, very acidic. It is grown to a limited extent in India. It is well-adapted to a a b b Indian Horticulture 36 Fruiting twig of hog plum (a) and mature fruits (b) arid as well as humid zones. The tree may be propagated by seeds but it can be multiplied by cuttings which root quickly. The tree is fast-growing in full sun. The tree flowers in November and December and again in March, and the fruits ripen in June to August, and in November– December. The raw fruits are used for pickle and chutney making.