 The water and the dissolved nutrients are supplied directly to the root zone fostering the plant growth and development thus saving 30-50% of water applied in conventional surface irrigation and sprinkler systems. Adopting drip system helps in uniform distribution of water and nutrients to the plants thus improving the resource-use efficiency. It also reduces the problems associated with soil erosion and nutrient leaching. Reports have mentioned that drip system has been widely adopted in an area of 83.19 lakh hectares in India since 2014-15. Despite, the present scenario of plunging water availability underscores the need of more water and nutrient efficient systems. Wick system Wick irrigation is a sub-surface irrigation system which applies the principle of capillary action. Capillary action is the spontaneous movement of a liquid through a narrow tube such as capillary. In this system, the plants take up the water and dissolved nutrients through capillary movement assisted by the wicks. This occurs against the gravity and is achieved with the help of adhesive and cohesive forces interacting between the solution and the wick. The plant could take only the required amount of water facilitated by the transpiration pull and after attaining the saturation point, the wicks stop the water uptake and thus curb the excessive water loss. Moreover, the wick system usually operates in a closed cycle, without runoff, permitting appropriate plant nutrition and reducing the heavy metal contamination and environmental pollution. It has greater water and nutrient-use efficiency and reduced cultivation cost owing to minimal electricity usage and lesser manpower. It also does not deteriorate the soil physical properties, viz., bulk density, particle density and air porosity. Whereas the physical and chemical properties of soil like air porosity and nutrient availability are likely to be disturbed in case of drip system, due to continuous dripping of water droplets on the soil which in turn creates a pressure on soil leading to soil compaction. But in case of wick system, the water is taken up by the plants through capillary action and hence the soil structure remains undisturbed. Furthermore, wick irrigation system has been reported to render enormous advantages in the cultivation of chrysanthemum, poinsettia, kalanchoe and cyclamen. Keeping these advantages into consideration, ICAR- Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru designed a low-cost wick system on conventional soil beds and compared its performance over drip system in the cultivation of gerbera. Installation of wick system on soil bed Red soil, farmyard manure and sand were mixed in the ratio of 2:1:1. Soil fumigation was carried out to prevent the incidence of soil-borne pests and diseases. Beds of 60 cm width, 30 cm height and convenient length were prepared after thorough-mixing of the soil mixture.