 Farmers select the seeds of vegetables like bitter gourd, bottle gourd, pumpkin, cucumber, tamato, chilies etc.The mature fruits are picked and further dried by repeated exposure to sunlight. Then the seeds are extracted from the fruits, washed, cleaned and dried in the sun (Andaman and Nicobar). Anonymous (1999c) 42 Post-harvest storage of horsegram in empty salt bags Insect damage is reduced when horsegram is stored in empty common salt bags as salt prevents hatching of storage pests eggs and also acts as preservative (Karnataka). Prasad (1998) 155 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 43 Storing of pulse seeds in new earthen pots New earthen pots meant for storing seeds are brushed with cow urine. These are dried in the shade for a day and in the sun for another day. Grains like cowpea, dolichos and pulses can be stored in such pots where they will be safe for one or two years. Dolichos seeds are coated with castor oil, dried and then stored in earthen vessels. The vessels are covered with lids and sealed with cow dung. This method of seed storage is prevalent in areas adjoining the Karnataka-Tamil Nadu border and is said to keep seeds safe for one or two years (Thalli). Patel (1993) 44 Storage of pulses in earthen containers When farmers store pulse grains in earthen containers, the grains are covered with layers of fine sand and wood ash for protection form the grain pests (Gujarat). Makanaji (1998b) 45 Use of premature fruit drop of mango to protect chickpea grain Pulses are more difficult to store than cereals. Premature fruit drop of mango can be used to store pulses like chickpea. About 200 g of the dried mango fruit is mixed with 20 kg of gram (Bhiloda, Gujarat). Anonymous (1999c) 46 Storage pest control in pigeonpea by pongamia oil Smearing pongamia/neem oil to pigeonpea and avare at 300 ml/quintal is done to prevent storage pest damage due to insect repellent and antifungal properties (Karnataka). Khan and Singh (1999) 47 Storage of pulse seeds mixed with ash and mustard oil Farmers store blackgram and other legumes like chickpea and peas by mixing ash with seeds. The chickpea and pea seeds are smeared with mustard oil. Thus the seeds are stored for a long time (Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh). 48 Dew soaked seed storage system of pigeonpea Seeds of pigeonpea are dried in the sun and left in the open backyard throughout the night. This hardens the seeds, further a layer of sand (wet with morning dew) is spread at the base of an earthen vessel and pigeonpea seeds are layered over that. Again sand is layered over these seeds and then it is packed. This method of storage is also known to reduce the pest attack of pigeonpea to a considerable extent (Bangalore, Karnataka). Singh (1999) 156 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S. No.