 The ICAR through its Agricultural Education Division strives for maintaining and upgrading quality and relevance of higher agricultural education through partnership and efforts of the ICAR-Agricultural Universities (AUs) system. In 1973, ICAR went through another major re-organisation. The new Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was created under Ministry of Agriculture to provide ICAR required linkages to deal directly with central and state governments as well as international organizations. Fig. 3. Distribution of agricultural universities across the country Achievements in Agricultural Education in Independent India 319 5. Academic reforms and quality assurance 5.1. Agricultural Human Resource Development (AHRD) Project (1995-2001) Implementation of the AHRD project with World Bank support helped the country to modernize its agricultural sector through improvement in agricultural education. The programme covered only 4 SAUs viz. CCSHAU, Hisar; TNAU, Coimbatore; ANGRAU, Hyderabad (now in Guntur); Animal Science University (now TANUVAS), Chennai. The educational reforms made under this project spread to non -AHRD SAUs too. Major reforms /initiatives of ICAR under the project were establishment of accreditation Board, All India Entrance Examination for admission to SAUs, introduction of sabbatical, revision of course curricula, faculty trainings, development of instructional material, infrastructure development, etc. (DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2001). 5.2. Deans’ Committee and Broad Subject Matter Area Committees The Education system has to be dynamic as the higher agricultural education system has to match with the changing demands and needs. Therefore, an institutional mechanism in the form of Deans’ Committees was put in place by ICAR for the first time in 1965. The Committee was entrusted with the task of defining the course curriculum and other activities of UG and PG degrees keeping in view the demands of the markets, industries, specialists and the needs of the agriculture in general. Besides, recommendations for uniformity in UG and PG degree nomenclature; restructuring of UG programmes for increased practical and practice contents; central assistance for strengthening of higher agricultural education; guidelines for assessing training needs and performance of teaching faculties; reforms in governance of SAUs; developing a Model DPR for establishment of a new college, etc. were also given to the Dean’s Committee. So far 6 Dean’ Committees have been constituted in 1965, 1979, 1995, 2005, 2013 and 2021. The First Deans’ Committee report was bought out in 1967. Subsequently, the progress of AUs was reviewed in 1977 by the AUs Review Committee headed by Dr. MS Randhawa on the recommendation of which the second Deans’ committee was constituted in 1979. The Committee submitted its report in 1981. The skill development courses were introduced following the 3rd report of Dean’s Committee bought out in 1995.