 The economics was directly proportional to the productivity level of individual variety. The B:C ratio was also computed and it corresponded with net returns received under different varieties. The highest B:C ratio was recorded in Kufri Chipsona-4 (2.69) followed by Kufri Fysona (2.42) under sprinkler system, whereas it was highest in Kufri Frysona (2.19) followed by Kufri Chipsona-4 (2.16) under drip irrigation system. The economic analysis of data revealed that potato cultivation under the hot arid ecosystem is economically viable. Points for consideration y Seed tubers must be procured from authentic sources. About 20-25 q/ha seed tuber is required. Sowing of whole tuber of 30-40 g is suggested. The big-size tubers after cutting into pieces and treating with fungicide can also be used for sowing. y The fertilizer requirement is worked out to be 250:100:50 Kg NPK/ha. The full dose of P and K and 1/4th N should be given as basal dose during planting time while 1/4th of the remaining N should be given at first earthing (35-40 days after planting), 1/4th at second earthing (55-65 days after planting) and 1/4th at bulking stage (70-75 days after planting). y The water requirement for potato crop of 90-110 days is about 350-600 mm, depending on edapho-climatic conditions. Fields must be irrigated through micro- sprinklers at 4 days intervals for 30 minutes up to 30 days after planting, 40 minutes up to 40 days after planting, 50 minutes up to 50 days after planting and 60 minutes up to 90 days after planting. Thereafter irrigation must be stopped for maturation. y In hot arid region, January is the most sensitive month of frost occurrence, thus early sowing is recommended, so that tuberization must be completed well before this period. Irrigation through micro- sprinklers will minimize the damage to the crop by low temperatures. y There is no serious problem of pests and diseases in potato in the arid region. However, as prophylactic measure, spray of Imidacloprid (0.5 ml/l) and Carbendazim + Mancozeb (1.5-2 g/l) at full vegetative growth stage (50 days after planting) to minimize the problem of sucking pest and late blight may be done. y For processing purpose, Kufri Chipsona-4 and Kufri Frysona are the best varieties with high dry matter content. Whereas, Kufri Garima and Jyoti are high yielding varieties and suitable for vegetable purpose. y Harvesting must be done well before 15 February, otherwise increasing temperature will affect tuber quality adversely. y Size grading should be done to fetch better prices in the market. Proper packaging in gunny bags after harvesting and storage at a cool and dry place should be done after treating tubers with 3% Boric acid, in order to avoid storage loss.