 In Black Bengal goats microsatellite loci and in Pugal sheep 3 microsatellite loci were analysed. Number of alleles, heterozygocity and PIC values for all the loci were studied. DNA fingerprinting of Indian goats by minisatellite (Bkm) and microsatellite marker: At the CIRG, Makhdoom, genetic fingerprinting profiles were successfully used for establishing biological relationships, linkage analysis and phylogenetic relationship among related species. Ten microsatellites were standardized, and further characterization of Jamunapari, Barbari, Sirohi, Kutchi, Jhakhrana, Changthangi and Black Bengal goats was taken up. Camel: Genomic DNA samples of double-humped camel were studied at the NRC on Camel, Bikaner, along with single humped camel, cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, horse and donkey with a single set of primer. Genomic DNA of double-humped camel revealed a single band of 237 bp whereas in single humped camel 2 bands of 237 bp and 288 bp were amplified. Pig: At the NBAGR, Karnal, blood samples of desi pigs of Northern India and Assamese pigs were collected and DNA was isolated. DNA samples were amplified at specific microsatellite loci by polymerase chain reaction. The PCR product was resolved on denaturing polyacrylamide gel for alleles. The data were recorded and analyzed for heterozygosity in desi and Assamese pigs for these microsatellite loci. Equine: At the NRC on Equines, Hisar, molecular characterization was done for studying genetic diversity among Marwari horses. Biochemical polymorphic studies and estimation of the gene frequency was taken up. Basic data for indigenous breeds of equines in respect of physiological, biochemical, haematological and hormonal parameters under rest and working conditions are being collected. Poultry: Biotechnological approaches for improving traits of importance in broiler and layer populations. At the Project Directorate on Poultry, Hyderabad, genetic characterization of an egg type population vis-à-vis indigenously available homogeneous chicken stocks for quantitative, immunogenic and molecular profiles, was initiated. Molecular analysis of a brown egger population for its immunogenetic make up at the MHC-Bg region employing fragment length polymorphism techniques using public-domain DNA markers such as Bg-28 and Bg-32.1, was undertaken. Evaluation of genetic distances among selected and control lines of White Leghorn chicken lines using DNA methods: At the CARI, Izatnagar, the project was initiated to evaluate the genetic biodiversity within and between 4 selected lines of White Leghorn by DNA methods. The genomic DNA from 10-12 birds of each line was taken and evaluated for purity. Only distinct and prominent bands were scored. The presence or absence of band within RAPD pattern was scored as one or zero, respectively, and the genetic identity index (I) or similarity index, band sharing frequency (BSF) and genetic distance were estimated.