 y Adoption of advanced techniques of agriculture like crop diversification, contract farming, precision farming, and fruit based farming system and reach the unreached in real time for high value fruit crops. y Genetic erosion is very serious problem in non- traditional fruits and many land races will become extinct if these are not conserved soon. Domestication of potential wild species through homestead cultivation should be encouraged for avoiding over-exploitation from natural sources. y In order to reduce post-harvest losses at production centers, low cost eco-friendly on-farm storage structures should be made. Also, standardization of packing line operations and proper packaging of different commodities are of urgent need. y Development of proper market linkage from the farmers to the retailers in order to facilitate remunerative price to the farmers at production site. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director & Professor, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hesaraghata, Bengaluru 560 089 2Professor & Head, Department of Horticulture, North Eastern Hill University, Tura 794001 Meghalaya 3Professor & Head, Department of Horticulture and Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Aizawl 796004, Mizoram E-mail: sanjaydr2@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 30 Potential of Temperate Fruit Crops in Northeastern States of India The Northeastern Himalayan (NEH) region of India is one of the potential horticultural ecosystems that has enormous temperate fruits and the entire range of fruit crops grown in the tropical, subtropical and temperate regions. The areas have tropical climate with high rain fall and moderate temperature regimes. However, the higher altitudes of Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Manipur have ideal soil and climatic conditions and have great scope for temperate fruits. These areas receive moderate to high chill units during winter season. Therefore, apple is grown nearly on the top of the hills and other fruits like stone fruits, walnut, kiwi, strawberry and persimmon are grown in the mid-hills successfully. The area under temperate fruit cultivation is very limited inspite of the ideal soil and climatic conditions and the availability of low chill temperate fruit and nut crops. Therefore, adoption of technological innovations in Northeastern states have potential for area expansion in the region. N ORTH EASTERN states consists of 8 states namely, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Sikkim and Tripura (officially the North Eastern Region, NER) is the easternmost region of India. The NE region shares international boorder with China in the north, Myanmar in the east, Bangladesh in the southwest, Nepal in the west, and Bhutan in the northwest. It comprises an area of 262,184 square km (101,230 sq mi), almost 8% of India. Due to the biodiversity and crop diversity of the region, researchers believe that early settlers of Northeast India had domesticated several important plants.