 SOIL MANAGEMENT OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS Assessing mineral contentin soils on X-ray defraction machine, NBSSLUP, Nagpur Computer-guided Atomic Absorption Spectrophotometer, IISS, Bhopal Vegetative barriers are as good as mechanical bunds in conserving soil and rainwater. Cenchrus ciliaris, Cymbopogon flexuosus, Pennisetum hohenackeri and Leucaena latisiliqua are used as vegetative barriers across several locations in the country Soilrelated constraints often limit the ability to attain desired crop productivity. For combating, suitable techniques have been evolved. Diagnosing soilrelated problems and developing area-specific technologies for amelioration Developing strategies for integrated watershed management. Integrated watershed management models have been developed for different agro-ecological regions. Techniques have been evolved for management of physical problems of soils, such as crusting, compaction, deep percolation or low permeability and for reclaiming salt-affected soils. Techniques for stabilization of sand dunes have been evolved. Strategies for reclamation of ravine lands have ‘been developed. Acacia tortilis, an introduction, has established exceedingly well in the sand-dune affected areas IN FUTURE... Refining soil reclamation technologies for greater efficiency and cost effectiveness Evolving preventive measures against various forms of soil degradation and desertification Developing farmers’ participation models for integrated watershed management. Agrt-silvi combination of Acacia nilotica, wheat and chickpea is recommended for the marginal and drylands OBJECTIVES ACHIEVEMENTS ‘ F 7 | as aan } Prosopis cineraria and pearimillet combinations are now a practice in sandy areas of Rajasthan Agroforestry systems are not new to us. They are really old and traditional. Taungya, growing of tea and coffee in the shade of trees; intercropping in coconut, multistoreyed home gardens; khejraand agricultural crop combinations in hot arid regions; Alnus nepalensis in the hills of Nagaland and Manipur; growing of trees on field bunds, their sporadic distribution in fields of ginger, turmeric and large cardamom have been all too familiar to Indian agriculture. Agroforestry through the ages has been a production technique or method that combines agriculture and forestry, horticulture or animal husbandry on the same piece of land in order to fully utilize the natural resources — sunlight, water and nutrition. Identification of multipurpose tree species Development of agroforestry system for different agro-ecological regions Sustainable productivity of wastelands through agroforestry interventions. Ideal multipurpose tree species of fodder, fuel, timber have been identified and evaluated for agroforestry.