 He was very much interested in millet production and therefore, he was selected as a participant farmer in 2017 under Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) of the ICAR- IIMR with support of ICAR-ATARI, Hyderabad. This opportunity allowed him to dive deep into the latest millet production techniques and crop management practices. He started practicing these techniques on his farm which resulted in higher millet production. He started learning more about the millets cultivation by continuous learning and interactions with the project team and fellow farmers through active participation in the millets WhatsApp group and utilization of the Indian Farming 74 (11): 15-18; November 2024 'Millets First' app, developed by the ICAR-IIMR. This further empowered him with the latest updates and best cultivation practices. His proficiency in millet cultivation gained him recognition as a progressive farmer, drawing numerous visitors including some from other states seeking his expertise of innovative millets production and processing techniques. He loses no opportunity in patiently sharing his knowledge and expertise with anyone concerned with millet cultivation, project stakeholders and agricultural authorities, enriching the farming community with his expertise. By demonstrating about the benefits of modern millet farming, he inspired many farmers to take up millet cultivation. His knowledge and success began to influence fellow farmers across his village, and seven Shri Veershetty Biradar Indian Farming 16 November 2024 other neighbouring villages and slowly in other states. ICAR-Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad has been instrumental in strengthening Shri Veershetty’s efforts by providing technical support, skills, required inputs like seeds, wild animal repellents and processing machineries under various interventions of the project. The project was implemented with five modules namely, Crop, Livestock, Horticulture, Enterprise and Natural Resource Management. Establishment of primary processing unit During his journey, Shri Veershetty identified one of the significant challenges faced by local farmers; the lack of primary and secondary processing facilities. This gap meant that farmers could not process their millets efficiently, which affected the pricing and profitability of their produce at large. Realizing an opportunity, he ventured into entrepreneurship by setting up a millets primary processing unit (PPU) on his farm providing essential processing services to farmers. The equipments were provided under enterprise module of FFP from the ICAR-IIMR. This facility was equipped with an aspirator, destoner, grader, pulverizer, and de- huller. He offered these services at a minimal cost of ` 5-10/kg, making it affordable for other local farmers.