 CGIAR centres’ experience of working elsewhere in different environments will help India, and therefore, a stronger relationship is needed. Further, both India and CGIAR centres have priority of working in Africa where already some CGIAR centres have their well established infrastructure which could facilitate development of the joint road map for working in Africa. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 9 Bioversity International is a global research-for-development organization with headquarters in Rome (Italy). We have a vision – that agricultural biodiversity nourishes people and sustains the planet. We deliver scientific evidence, management practices and policy options to use and safeguard agricultural and tree biodiversity to attain sustainable global food and nutrition security. Bioversity International was established in 1974 as the International Board for Plant Genetic Resources (IBPGR) to coordinate an international plant genetic resources programme, including emergency collecting missions, and building and expanding national, regional and international gene banks. The Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) of the UN acted as its secretariat. In 1991, the IBPGR became the International Plant Genetic Resources Institute (IPGRI). The IPGRI started its independent operation as a CGIAR centre in 1994. The operations in India were started at the National Bureau of Plant Genetic Resources (NBPGR), New Delhi, in July 1988. However, the formal inauguration happened on 10 June 1989. A memorandum of agreement (MOA) was signed between IBPGR and ICAR for scientific and technical co-operation in plant genetic resources. Since 1987, the ICAR and Bioversity International have collaborated to undertake research in the field of conservation of plant genetic resources and creation of facilities for scientific exchange programmes for global capacity building. The contribution of Bioversity International (then IBPGR) emphasizes joint plant genetic resources research activities on selected priority crops of mutual interest as per the programme and project activities of the Bioversity International. There will be a greater focus on promoting and undertaking collaborative research involving the expertise and facilities of NBPGR, other ICAR institutes, State Agricultural Universities and other related research organizations in India. Bioversity International ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 10 2.i. Overall contribution to Indian agriculture One of the primary novel idea that Bioversity International brought to the Indian system is the broadening the genetic base of crops to empower farmers for better adaptation (Seeds for Needs). This activity deployed a huge farmers’ network (45000 trials) for crop diversification. Bioversity International through “Seeds for Needs” project is studying the impact of agricultural biodiversity in minimizing the losses occurring due to climate shifts by involving large number of smallholder farmers.