 Studies on economizing the use of fertilizer in succeeding crops in different crop sequences has revealed the application of recommended doses of NPK fertilizers both to potato and bajra followed by 50% in sesame to be effective in potato– groundnut–sesame sequence at Deesa in north Gujarat. In potato–onion–groundnut and potato–wheat–cowpea cropping systems at Jallandhar, in-situ incorporation of each crop residue to succeeding crops was found economizing on NPK by 50%. In potato–onion–groundnut system, both potato and onion need to be fertilized with optimum NPK while groundnut with half the required dose of NPK. In potato– wheat–cowpea system, potato needs to be fertilized with optimum NPK while the succeeding crops of wheat required full N and cowpea only half of NPK. Potato + garlic intercropping was found effective in reducing cutworm damage by 40% at Shimla in the initial stages of crop growth and resulted in higher average yield (31 q/ha). Electron microscopic studies established the association of a gemini virus with potato apical leaf curl in the North-western plains of India. It is for the first time that a Gemini virus was detected in potato from India causing leaf curl disease in potato crop. TROPICAL TUBER CROPS A total of 173 new accessions have been added to the germplasm of various tuber crops at different centres of AICRP on Tuber Crops. At present, a total of 4,213 accessions are being maintained at various centres. Coimbatore centre maintains the largest number of cassava germplasm (410). In cassava, breeding line, MNGA 1, received from CIAT found to be resistant to CMD for the past 8 years. It gives an average tuber yield of 29 tonnes/ha with good cooking quality and very low cyanogens. Four superior triploid hybrids of cassava were identified from advanced yield trials. Since triploids cassava have higher starch yield, they were planted in the premises of a starch factory at Salem, Tamil Nadu, for location-specific testing. Two sweet potato genotypes, RS-III-3 and CIP-490056- 2, have been released as Sree Arun and Sree Varun respectively. Both the varieties are spreading types with fusiform short/spherical tubers, maturing in 90–100 days, IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 61 with tuber yield of 20–28 tonnes/ha. Sweet potato Sree Bhadra has now been under cultivation in an area of around 10,000 ha in a span of 5 years in north Bihar. Occurrence of natural polyploidy among the seedlings of D. alata (sexual polyploidy) is reported for the first time. Two hexaploids (2n=60) were obtained from the seedlings of crosses between tetraploids (2n=40). Four superior accessions of D. alata were selected from advanced yield trials. Five high-yielding hybrids of taro, identified from advanced yield trials, were laid out in on-farm trials in 4 locations. They recorded significantly higher tuber yield than Sree Reshmi and are also tolerant to taro leaf blight. Five high-yielding hybrids of elephant-foot yam were identified.