 Desilting farm ponds or tanks and applying the nutrient-rich silt to light-textured soils enhances water holding capacity and boosts crop yields by 16–22% compared to not using tank silt. Conservation agriculture, which includes zero tillage, crop residue recycling, and crop diversification, is a climate-resilient practice that enhances crop productivity, reduces residue burning, saves time on land preparation, and allows for early sowing. Climate smart crops/cropping system diversification and variety selection The climatic vulnerabilities like heat/cold wave, flood, cyclone, frost, hail storm, reduce the potential yield of a crop or a variety. Hence, a climate-smart efficient location specific cropping system or a variety can be cultivated. Crop diversification with climate- resilient crops, such as millets, is an effective strategy for enhancing resilience to climate change. Millets are hardy, tolerant of water and heat stress, carbon-smart, and highly nutritious, making them suitable for rainfed regions. Thus, integrating millets into cropping systems is recommended for these areas. Monocropping in rainfed areas is a risky practice for farmers, as relying on a single crop increases the likelihood of failure and contributes to food, income, and environmental insecurity due to climatic stresses. Mixed cropping, intercropping with short duration and long duration crops, deep rooted and shallow crops relay cropping reduce the impact of different climatic vulnerabilities in general and drought in particular. In the extreme climatic stresses, if one crop fails, farmers can get income from another crop. Inclusion of a legume in cropping system add sustainability to this system through soil cover, and addition of biological nitrogen. An efficient cropping system always meet the climatic requirement based on the particular region and increases the crop productivity. For example, there is an urgent need for diversification of the conventional puddled transplanted rice, and intensively tilled wheat to other cropping systems such as maize-wheat, pulse- wheat, maize-pulse, oilseed-wheat and direct seeded rice-wheat. The latter system are less water and nutrient demanding (with legume) and use resources more efficiently thereby increasing farmers’ income and Conservation furrow Pigeon pea on raised bed planting Raised bed planting Farm pond Indian Farming 76 January 2025 exhorting less pressure on the natural resource base. Farmers traditionally grow low-yielding, long- duration local crop varieties that are not adapted to climatic stresses such as drought, floods, and heat, leading to reduced productivity. The improved high yielding varieties are short duration and resistant to different climatic stresses (drought, heat, flood as well as salinity) which helps to get higher crop productivity.