 Technological backstopping, development of entrepreneurial skills, facilitation in obtaining legal licenses and financial and market linkage are crucial in developing rural women agriprenuership. Potential women entrepreneurs were selected from eight blocks of 6 districts of Odisha after identifying their needs and constraints. Capacity building of the rural women in the aspects of intensive rearing of improved poultry breeds, scientific goat farming using low cost feed and housing methods and production of innovative value added fish products was done taking into account their interest, availability of resources and market potential of the products. Twenty eight capacity building programmes were organised in the identified areas which benefitted 902 rural women. Furtherance in development of women entrepreneurship was done through facilitation with critical inputs like improved breeds of goat and poultry, accessories for small scale poultry units, processing and packaging machineries etc. Business economics for the enterprises were also worked out. The women will work as individual entrepreneurs, or cluster units or Women Farmer Interest groups as per the selection of the enterprise. As market linkage is most important for ensuring the sustainability of any enterprise, the same was initiated by liaison with State Department agencies like, Mission Shakti, ORMAS, OPALFED and private retail chains like Falcon Fresh. All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Women in Agriculture: ICAR-CIWA, AICRP Centre, PAU, Ludhiana developed non-woven and woven paddy straw mulch mats for moisture conservation in the fruit orchards and pots. Experiments were conducted in collaboration with College of Horticulture and Forestry, PAU, Ludhiana. The weed growth was less with the other treatments in practice. The physical properties revealed that woven mats had 53.93% water holding capacity than non-woven mulch mat (89.03%). The soil composition analysis showed that the pH was reduced to 8.0 from 8.5 with the use of different treatments. The micronutrients of the soil, viz. zinc (Zn), copper Social Science icar annual report 2022-23 168 Social Science (Cu) and manganese (Mn) increased with the use of these treatments. Two technologies, i.e. finger guards (Nakhalya) and digging tool (Ukeri) developed by ICAR- CIWA, AICRP Centre, VNMKV, Parbhani were tested and validated. Improved Ring Cutters for vegetable harvesting were upscaled and provided to AICRP centers at Pantnagar, Hyderabad, Palampur, Udaipur and Hisar. A garlic peeling machine and an amla de-seeding machine were fabricated and provided to the workers of selected food processing units by ICAR-CIWA, AICRP Centre, VNMKV, Parbhani. ❑ icar annual report 2022-23 169 15.