 Baraiya (1994b) 527 Leaf extract of jinjara for dropping of lacenta in animals When the placenta is not dropped after delivery, the animal is treated with jinjara leaves. About 250 g leaves of jinjara are crushed and water is added in it. The filtrate is given to animal after six hrs of delivery. Farmers estimate the success rate of this treatment at about 60% (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Rabari (1994) 528 Removal of placenta of calf by perandai a climbing shurb with tendrils (Cissus quadrangularis L.) The whole plant is crushed into paste and given orally to newborn calves to facilitate removal of the placenta: after swallowing the paste, the calf will start to vomit (Dindugul, Tamil Nadu). Ranjan and Sethuraman (1997) 272 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 529 Use of tassles of aize cob for dropping of placenta The tassles of 20-25 maize cobs are boiled in water and given to the animal after calving to help dropping of placenta (Junagadh, Gujarat). Savalia (1998) 530 Removal of placenta Fifty grams of turmeric, 200 g of raw rice and 200 g of Palmyrah jaggery are pounded together and fed to the animal. If this method does not work, three kg of bamboo leaves may be pounded and administered to the animal. As a last resort ruraikai (Lagernaria vulgaris) may be fed to the animal in small pieces. It will definitely induce the placenta to drop (Pattukkottai). Balasundaram (1998) 531 Treatment for expulsion of placenta The animal is fed with one or two basketfull of green leaves of Bambusa bambas. It is believed that the treatment helps to release placenta within two to three hrs (Junagadh, Gujarat). Savalia (1998) 532 Dropping of placenta Empty cotton shells and roots of the cotton plant are boiled in water. The decoction is filtered through a cotton cloth and given to the animal if it has not dropped the placenta within 7-8 hrs after calving. To prepare one litre of decoction, approximately 400 g each of empty pods shell and roots are boiled in 2-3 litres of water. Approximately half a litre of decoction is given to the animal 2 or 3 times at intervals of half an hour or so. This treatment starts having its effect within an hour. Few people use this treatment; it was quite popular 30-35 years ago. One limitation is that cotton shells and roots are available only during a limited period in the year (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Darbar (1993) 533 Removing the placenta in buffaloes The roots of jepti herbal plant is used to remove the placenta from buffaloes after delivery. Around 500 g roots of jepti are thoroughly pounded to extract juice which is given to the buffalo to drink. This releases the placenta. Kamod (a variety of rice), sanakhadi, khapat (Abutilon indicum), chanothi (Abrus precatorius) seeds, bajri, jaggery, oil, suvadana (Anethum suva) and umri (Ficus glomerata) fruits are also used to remove the placenta from the body of the animal. The oil is applied on the shoulders of the animal.