 Keywords: Biofortification, Grain yield, Hybrids, Nutrition, Pearl millet M ALNUTRITION due to micronutrient deficiency, especially with iron (Fe), zinc (Zn), vitamin A and iodine (I) is prevalent among the poor of southeast Asia and Africa, where, pearl millet [Pennisetum glaucum (L.) R. Br.] is grown in the harshest environmental conditions. Being a climate resilient crop, it is grown under adverse climatic conditions in the arid and semi-arid regions enduring high heat, marginal soils, poor inputs and drought besides being resilient to most biotic stresses. Pearl millet is the most widely cultivated staple food crop after rice, wheat and maize in India playing a vital role of addressing food and nutritional security in regions where other cereal crops can not be successfully grown. It is mostly consumed in the western Rajasthan and parts of Gujarat, where it is more than 50% of the total cereal consumption besides being consumed in other parts of Gujarat, Rajasthan, Maharashtra and Haryana. Nutritional value of pearl millet Pearl millet releases more energy (361 Kcal/100 g) on consumption as compared to rice (345 Kcal/100 g) and wheat (346 Kcal/100 g). The carbohydrate content of the grain amounts up to 62%. Pearl millet contains about 11.6% protein that is higher than rice, maize, sorghum and barley, and comparable to wheat. It has better essential amino acid composition and is a good source of the sulphur containing amino acid, methionine. Due to its high total dietary fibre (11.2 g/100 g) and slow digestion, it is beneficial to non-insulin diabetic patients. It is a decent source of fat (5–7%) and fat-soluble vitamin E (0.2 mg/100 g). Regarding the fatty acid composition, pearl millet is a source of linolenic acid, the n-3 essential fatty acid that accounts for about 4% of the total fatty acids, compared to 0.9% in maize. The n-3 fatty acids play an important role in physiological functions like platelet aggregation, triglyceride reduction and better immune system. The grain is also a good source of vitamin A and B-vitamins, viz. thiamine, niacin and riboflavin. It is rich in minerals such as calcium (Ca), potassium (K), magnesium (Mg), manganese (Mn), Zn, Fe, and copper (Cu) as compared to corn with higher levels of phosphorus (P), being important for bone mineral matrix and adenosine triphosphate which is the energy booster in the body. Pearl millet is also rich in phytochemicals including phenolic acids; the ferulic and p-coumaric acids found in whole pearl millet, have several health beneficial properties including the ability to suppress the proliferation of certain type of tumour cells. Being gluten free, they are boon for patients with celiac disease. It is enriched with nutrients to mitigate malnutrition and hidden hunger and hence rightly designated as nutri-cereal (gazette of India, No. 133 dated 13 April 2018).