 Development of alternate protein sources for fish meal replacement using customized enzyme mixtures and solid-state fermentation technology, and functional feeds for various life stages are other achievements. The research at ICAR-CMFRI led to the development of nutritional solutions of both basic and applied nature for different marine fish species. R&D at ICAR- CMFRI, ICAR-CIBA and ICAR-CIFA has resulted in commercially scalable technologies including Varsha and Varna brand of ornamental fish feeds from ICAR-CMFRI and ‘Kolorfishplus’ from ICAR-CIBA. However, feeds for ornamental fish and micro-feeds for nursery rearing of cage cultured fish are mostly imported. Commercial production of such feeds is yet to be taken up in the country as the volume of production demanded is below commercial viability. Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 195 2.2.7. Fish genetics & biotechnology Genetic improvement of culture species was an important research area that attracted the attention of researchers even in the early years of aquaculture development. Over 40 interspecific and intergeneric hybrids were produced at the FARTC, but proved to have limited practical relevance, as none of them demonstrated to have significantly higher growth potential than their parents. With the studies conducted on the manipulation of chromosome sets, success was achieved in inducing ploidy, and the production of androgens and gynogens. The triploids and gynogens also could not be translated into field-level adoption. Later, emphasis was given to the trait-associated selective breeding of the cultured species which was a great success. The genetic research during the initial years was largely confined to cytogenetic studies in fishes to characterize the species in terms of diploid chromosome numbers (2N), morphology/ karyotype, staining of nucleolar organizer regions (NORs) of chromosomes, patterns of constitutive heterochromatic, and physical location of genes on chromosomes. The ICAR- NBFGR has undertaken cytogenetic studies on over 80 species including endemic and endangered species belonging to freshwater, marine and brackishwater ecosystems, ranging from plains and Himalayan foothills to the Western Ghats. Development of Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) as a tool for physical mapping of repetitive DNA and study of the variation between and within species has also been undertaken in over 20 fish species. Development of the first selective breeding programme in India was undertaken in rohu at ICAR-CIFA through an Indo-Norwegian project (AKVAFORSK, Norway) in the early1990s with growth as the trait of selection (Reddy et al. 1999). The impressive success achieved with an average of 17% higher growth response per generation after 11th generation of selection is a significant development.