 Selvendrum 282 Annanagar, Kulithalai, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 639 104  Keywords: paddy cultivation, sowing time, avian, wind direction 2354 Mixing of paddy seeds with cow dung before sowing Mixing paddy seeds with cow dung is a common cultural practice of Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir. In this practice, seed is properly mixed with Ecow dung before sowing. The mixing of the seed with cow dung becomes doubly advantageous. First, it protects the seed from birds whenever the nursery is dry, and secondly it acts as manure for the seed. Keywords: paddy seeds, cow dung, manure Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-Ecow Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2341 Use of semi-dry condition to raise pest and disease - free paddy nursery Farmers of Kottaikadu village in Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 20 years. Nursery is raised under semi-dry condition so that the crop can withstand pest and disease attacks as well as drought condition. For cultivating 1 acre, a nursery is raised in 5 cents area. Keywords: semi-dry condition, pest and disease attack, drought, paddy nursery Shri S. Marimutthu, Kottaikadu Kalagam, Peravurani, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 614 804 2355 Use of ash to protect paddy nursery against adverse weather This is practised in the surrounding areas of Gooty of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. In late kharif season, if there is any likelihood of heavy rain and there are pre-germinated paddy seeds, ash is sprayed in nursery beds. Ash acts as a cementing layer and prevents toppling of seedlings and also accumulation of seedlings on one side. Keywords: paddy nursery, cyclone, heavy rain, ash, cementing agent Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701 2362 Use of brankar leaves in raising paddy nursery This practice is widely adopted in Mogla area of Rajouri district in Jammu & Kashmir. In this practice brankar (Adatoda vesica) leaves are mixed with Esoil at the time of field preparation for nursery raising of paddy. The leaves of Adatoda increase soil fertility, act as insecticide and make the uprooting of seedling easier. Keywords: brankar leaves, Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-Esoil Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection,  paddy nursery, soil fertility Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-EKashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2335 Use of over-aged rice seedlings with topping and more number of seedlings per hill When seedlings become over-aged due to some reasons, the farmers use topped seedlings (1/3 from top) @ 4-5 seedlings per hill.