 The basic and advanced trainings were given to Peer Support Volunteers (PSVs) based on six modules. The slogan “Karoge Baat, Banegi Baat” (Talk and you will get a solution) got popular with the farmers in three states. PSVs also spread the message to shun conspicuous consumption and cut expenses on social events. Message of the simplicity adopted by Punjab Agricultural University in Kisan Mela snowballed into a state-wide movement with more than 150 village panchayats, mainly in the pockets of suicide, adopted resolutions not to splurge on social ceremonies. A total of nine reasons were short-listed, which included Depression/Mental illness; Family/Marital Dispute; Financial Stress; Health Issues; Land Dispute; Education related problem; Drug Abuse and Others. The stress index and psychological resource index were found to be significant. Information Dissemination System(s) for Empowering Farming Community of Uttarakhand: The project was implemented with innovative intervention of designing and development of need-based media packages to cater to the information gaps compatible to differing agro-ecological zones. The Participatory Appraisal techniques were applied to generate purposeful linkages with the client in intensive manner in the selected villages of different districts (total 12) of Uttarakhand. The network analysis, that has yielded useful data, will now be utilized in strengthening available information-communication networks in the study villages. The design and development of audio programmes is under process, and targeting to inculcate interests among farmers on a particular field, such as mushroom farming, and its associated benefits. On the other hand, the video programme intends to provide the complete skill-set required to engage in mushroom farming. Finally, the print material serves as a ready reckoner containing detailed Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 64 information about mushroom farming, including information about the market, the experts of the field, various government policies and schemes. A pilot test was conducted across the various agro-climatic zones of Uttarakhand (including Tarai region, low hills, mid hills, and high hills) to test the effectiveness of the video programme developed as a part of the media package. A total of 21 video programmes with four in Tarai region, six in low hills, seven in mid hills, and four in high hills were tested. Development of alternative ICT models: An alternative integrated ICT model–Interactive Information Dissemination System (IIDS) involving toll-free IVRS (interactive voice response), Smart Phone application and Web- based Agri-Advisory System was developed to address farmers’ information need on important aspects in location-specific manner. The web and IVRS based applications were made available in three languages – English, Hindi and Telugu.