 With a growing demand for organic spices, ICAR-NBAIR technologies have played a pivotal role in Idukki district, enabling the production and export of safer small cardamom and its value-added products to domestic and international markets. Keywords: Bio-agents, Diseases, ICAR-NBAIR, ICAR-KVK, Insect pests, Small cardamom S MALL cardamom, one of the most valued spice crops, popularly known as green gold, is a native of the evergreen rainforests of Western Ghats. Cardamom hills comprised the mountain range of southern India and southern Western Ghats are the hotspot area for cardamom cultivation. Out of three cardamom producing states (Kerala, Tamil Nadu and Karnataka), Kerala accounts for 88% of total production in India. Cardamom hill reserves within the cardamom hills of Idukki district, Kerala, comprises about 7488.40 ha of land and accounts for about 70% of the cardamom production of India. The perennial and succulent nature of the crop provides agreeable conditions for the pathogens to proliferate and perpetuate throughout the year. Also, the humid environment coupled with the partial shade under which the crop is grown creates a very suitable condition for the multiplication of the plant pathogens. This situation is challenging for the profitable cultivation of cardamom in Cardamom hill reserves of Kerala. The major pests of small cardamom Indian Farming 74 (03): 74-79; March 2024 are shoot and capsule borer, thrips, root grub, whitefly, nematodes and diseases like capsule and panicle rot, clump rot, Fusarium rot, leaf blight and viral diseases are reported as major threats to commercial cardamom cultivation. Indiscriminate use of synthetic pesticides to manage these pests and diseases results in tremendous buildup of residues in export-oriented produce, which has recently invited debate and queries. This had significantly affected the world-wide acceptability of the king and queen of spices. Now, the demand for organic spices is increasing among consumers at the rate of 20% annually. The mission at the moment is to capture India’s pre-eminent position as spice bowl of the world by producing and exporting safer spices and spice products to the world market. For safer and continuous higher sustainable production, attention is needed on good agricultural practices through eco- friendly management of pests and diseases.