 In comparison to zero till tine openers, double disc furrow openers provide a smaller slit for the placement of seed and fertilizer as-well-as for managing maize residue. This minimizes damage to permanent beds. Raised beds Fresh beds: Additionally, elevated beds and ridges can be used to cultivate crops. They are especially helpful for clayey soils with heavy rainfall or other areas where poor drainage is probable. With this method, the land is divided Raised bed planting of wheat Indian Farming 24 February 2024 into a few long-raised bed strips that are spaced apart by furrows. On top of the bed surface, the crops are planted, and irrigation water is applied through the furrows. The lateral water circulation satisfies the crop water requirement while the bed surface stays nearly dry. Due to compaction created by tractor and equipment movement and irrigation water, it is easier for irrigation water to migrate laterally into the bed region, the infiltration rate of the furrow bottom remains nearly nil. For row crops like maize, soybean, cotton, sorghum, sunflower and dry beans, a single row is often planted on top of each bed; for crops like chickpea and canola, 1-2 rows are planted per bed; and for wheat, 2-4 defined rows, spaced by 15–30 cm depending on bed width, are typically employed. Height of raised beds Typically, raised beds are 10 to 30 cm high. The ideal height primarily relies on moisture and soil texture. Raised beds, for instance, are typically 20 to 30 cm high on clayey soils with heavy rainfall where poor drainage is likely to be an issue. Under the same circumstances, the bed height on course-textured soil could be between 15 and 20 cm. Raised beds have several benefits, including the • Ability to do field tasks like weeding, fertilizer application and thinning as well as significantly better drainage than flat beds. • Because they are created by dragging material from the nearby alleyways, they offer a thicker covering of topsoil and are therefore likely to be looser than flat beds. Ridge-Furrow planting: In low rainfall regions, the greatest constraining element for crop production is the availability of water. Therefore, it is crucial for crop production in both semi-arid and sub-humid locations to create resource conservation techniques that will lower the need for irrigation water to maintain high grain yields and raise the WP. For high yields and WP in wheat and maize, ridge- furrow farming (ridges that are each 30 cm wide and 15 cm high) can be particularly effective. Permanent raised beds: Farmers who use fresh bed planting method often remove or incorporate crop residues, demolish the beds by tilling the soil, and then create the beds again before planting the following crop. Planting in permanent raised beds (PRBs) is a controlled traffic method that lessens soil compaction.