 The list of the ITKs and the experimenting organizations for validation are as follows: I Contents Foreword Preface Introduction Thematic area Rain Water Management Soil and Water Management Pest and Disease Management Horticultural Crops Farm Implements Fishery Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE SI. Code Title No. No. Experimenting organization Rain water management 1. 105 Rain water management for teak (Tectona grandis Linn. F.), mango {Mangifera indica Linn.) and neem (Azadirachta indica A. Juss.) in arid and semi-arid regions 2. 2024 Rain water measurement using rolu (indigenous rain gauge) 1. Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore 2. Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad 3. 599 Method of rainwater management in mountainous landscape under apple orchard Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Palampur Soil and water conservation 4. 615 Cultivation of apple in Himalayan region Pest and disease management Ch. Sarwan Kumar Krishi VishwaVidyalaya, Palampur 5. 344 Management of yellow stem borer in paddy by use of parasi {Cleistanthus collinus) leaf 6. 357 Control of insect-pest in lowland rice using parasi (Cleistanthus collinus) 7. 365 Planting of wild Saccharum spontaneum in paddy field for controlling leaf folder 8. 1418 Control of caseworm (Nymphula depunctalis) in rice by leaves of parsa and sali 1422 Control of gall fly (Pachydiplosis oryzae) in rice 10. 368 Management of gundhi (harmfull green algae) in paddy field by karada (Cleistanthus collinus) leaves Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack 1. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi 1. Bidhan Chandra Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Nadia 2. Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack Contents INTRODUCTION SI. Code Title Experimenting organization No. No. Horticultural crops 11. 170 Pest management in tomato (Lycopersicon esculentum) by using leaf extract of Cynodon dactylon 12. 366 Use of kochila (Strichnos nuvvomica) mixed cowdung compost in brinjal for controlling fruit and shoot borer 13. 1415 Control of insects in cucurbits, cowpea and lady's finger by spraying urine of domestic animals mixed with tobacco soaked water 14. 1416 Control of insect-pests by spraying of starch, animal urine and dusting of cowdung ash in vegetables 15. 1417 Control of shoot and fruit borers by tobacco-soaked water with soap 16. 701 Protection of cabbage from pests 17. 141 Control of rhinocerous beetle in coconut by using cowdung slurry 18. 370 Sprouting in yam by cowdung slurry 19. 403 Off-season flowering in guava Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore 1. Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology 2.