 Stringent forest rules further restricted the access of livestock to the grasses available in the forest. Grazing tax was introduced in the mid- nineteenth century and pastoralists had to pay tax on every animal they grazed on the pastures (NCERT 2006). 4.5. Commercialization of milk and market linkage Commercialization of milk started in the early twentieth century. British troops and growing cities like Bombay were the main demand centres of milk. In the absence of fast transportation and chilling facilities, majority of the milk (68.8%) was converted into less perishable milk products like ghee, butter, khoa and curd. Liquid milk which used to fetch higher prices accounted only for 31.2% of the total sales while the share of ghee (52.7%) was highest. The collection centres and distribution network for linking the rural producers in Bombay with the urban consumers were set up in 1940. The well-organized milk Indian Agriculture after Independence 50 marketing organizations took the responsibility of milk distribution in other metropolitan cities like Delhi, Madras, Calcutta, Karachi, Kanpur and Nagpur. Polson dairy which was established in 1915 in Bombay was one of the first large scale milk processing plant in India. Keventers and Express Dairy were the other two popular dairy processors. Profit was the main motive of these plants and they were not concerned with the development of rural producers. Farmers were exploited due to dominance of middlemen and contractors in this system (Banerjee 1994) which led to larger discontentment among the milk producers. As a result, the cooperative movement started in dairying with the establishment of the Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers Union in Gujarat in 1946, which was quite successful and encouraged formation of dairy cooperatives across the country after independence. Kaira District Cooperative Milk Producers Union in Gujarat 4.6. Development of other livestock Horses and cattle received the major attention of the British government but some advancement also took place in the case of other animals like camel, mules, donkey, sheep, zebra and poultry birds. Camels were used by the Britishers for transportation and a government farm was established in Hisar for camel breeding in 1809. Later on, this farm was also used for breeding of bullocks, mules, zebra and sheep. Local ewes were crossed with Merino rams in the farm and an improved breed of sheep namely, Hissardale was developed which yielded superior quality of fleece. Status and scope of poultry was discussed in the report of the Royal Commission on Agriculture (1928) and subsequently, the Institute of Poultry Research was established at Izatnagar in 1938 (Sinha 2010). Animal Husbandry in Pre-Independent India 51 4.7. Slaughter houses and the gaushalas The Britishers started killing cows for beef soon after settling down in India. They established slaughter houses on the western pattern in different parts of the country.