 A perceptible change was noticed in the land use scenario and socio- economic condition of the farmers after adoption of the alternate land use plan. The transformation resulted in an increase in the per capita availability of cereals and pulses from 169 and 25.5 kg/annum to 172 and 96 kg/annum, respectively. Soybean got established as cash crop along with cotton. l The soil map of India has been generated on 1 : 1 million from the state soil maps. The map elaborates soils designated to 7 orders, 62 great- groups and 1,649 soil units. The map can be harnessed in land use planning for sustainable agriculture. l The soil resource atlases of Bhopal, Guna, Betul, Dhar and Ratlam districts have been brought out. l Soil erosion maps have been developed for Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and Tripura. l The bioengineering measures were developed integrating soil-erosion control structures with appropriate vegetation. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 73 Watershed Management Studies on impact of watershed management revealed that peoples’ participation index (PPI) in 15 watersheds of Coimbatore district was 55, 44 and 27% at the planning, implementation and maintenance stages, indicating medium, low and very low level, respectively. Benefit : cost analysis of the project, considering 10 years life at 10 and 15% discount rate, gave benefit: cost ratio of 1.53 : 1 and 1.28 : 1, respectively with 28% internal rate of return. The credit utilization and repayment capacity have improved as a result of watershed programme. A holistic development of Kokriguda micro-watershed was attempted following the multifaceted interventions based on needs, perceptions and priorities of the villagers known through participatory rural appraisal (PRA). With the dedicated efforts of Watershed Development Team (WDT), the area under vegetables increased from around 3 ha in 1998–99 to 18 ha in 2001–02, fetching net returns of Rs 14,245/ ha during 2000–01. Not only cultivation, but consumption of vegetables has also increased from 15 to 33 persons. These developmental activities have increased working hours of women in farm activities by 70%. Contribution of villagers varied from 5 to 60% depending upon the activity. Adoption of Resource Conservation Technologies (Zero-tillage) in Rice- Wheat Systems The project is based on cardinal principles of resource conservation technologies (RCT), which protects soils by reducing disturbance of soil structure due to tillage, build up of organic carbon, stimulate beneficial microbes, and improve infiltration of rainwater and reducing its loss. Zero-tillage sowing and surface seeding were undertaken in 43 canal irrigated villages consisting of 418 farmers in Patna.