 Other cucurbits mainly grown together are summer squash, bottle gourd, round melon, cucumber, sponge gourd, bitter gourd, long melon in north India, ridge gourd in Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Uttar Pradesh and pointed gourd in Bihar. Harvesting and yield: Harvesting should be done when fruits are quite tender and edible. Fruits which attain edible maturity should be harvested at 2-3 days interval, or else, the quality deteriorates and fruits are hardened due to seed maturity. By the end of June to end of October, harvesting at regular interval can be done. Harvesting of fruits starts in February-March (off-season) and gives early yield and higher return. After harvest, crops are transported to local market centers for sale. Role of pollinators The cucurbit crops are highly cross-pollinated and yield of crops are influenced by the pollinators. Honey bees are the main pollinating agent of cucurbit crops. In Diara land, visit of honey bees are restricted due to dry weather, non-visibility of flowers as crop is lying on surface. Hence, Sunflower sowing @100-150 plants per hectare was done for better pollination. Monitoring of ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi project site in riverbed cultivation Harvested produce and ready for marketing of 3 to 4 cm. Two seeds are usually sown at one place. Pre-sprouted seeds are sown for smooth germination when the temperature is very low. For this, pre-soak the seeds for 24 hours and place the moist seeds on a gunny bag and cover them with a cotton cloth and keep them in a warm place for about a week for sprouting to start. Sometimes the moistened seeds wrapped in gunny bags are left near the fire for quick germination and in this way sprouting starts after 5-6 days. As soon as sprouts emerge outside the seed coat they are planted. Generally, 2-3 pre-germinated seeds/hill area sown in pits. Nutrient management: Well decomposed FYM or compost, caster cake or groundnut, neem cake is applied first. To enhance moisture retention in the feeding zone, river silt is generally used. Germinating seeds or growing transplants are provided with warmth from the organic manure. At the time of thinning, 30-60 g urea per pit will be useful. After 25-30 days of sowing, depending on weather conditions and growth, chemical fertilizers are top dressed in two split doses, especially fertilizer mixtures or nitrogenous fertilizers like urea. This top dressing is applied in shallow trenches away from the plants. Water management: The deep root system in cucurbits enables the plant to survive in diara land. Pitcher irrigation is given in the initial stages of germination and growth till the roots of the plants touch the water regime below the sand or left as such. Trickle or sprinkler irrigation system is quite advantageous to avoid leaching losses of the nutrients in sandy soils. Indian Horticulture 80 Sunflower plant for more pollination in riverbed cultivation Nematode infestation in diara land cultivation in cucurbits Table 2.