 System equivalent yield in terms of groundnut equivalent for greengram–coriander– vegetable cowpea and greengram-fennel-fallow cropping systems was 4,717 and 2,332 kg/ha respectively. The system equivalent yield in terms of maize equivalent of sweet corn + blackgram–chickpea and soybean- fenugreek cropping systems was 7,959 and 4,955 kg/ ha respectively. Finger millet + black soybean (2:1) – wheat + toria (2:1) recorded system yield (finger-millet icar annual report 2022-23 124 Demonstration of in-situ jute retting tank at ICAR-CRIJAF Farm equivalent) of 2,787 kg/ha/year. Net income obtained from the different cropping systems under organic farming ranged from 0.24 lakh to 1.10 lakhs/ha. Greengram coriander vegetable cowpea recorded the higher net returns. Soil organic carbon also improved significantly due to adoption of organic farming packages. Developed package of practices shared with Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and respective state agencies for promotion under various developmental schemes such as Parambharghat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY). In-situ jute-retting tank based self-reliant eco- farming system: Keeping in view the erratic distribution of rainfall, non-availability of community retting tank, declined per capita availability of water resources, high cost of cultivation and dryness of rivers, ponds/canals, farmers face problems of proper retting of jute and mesta. Due to retting with poor quality water, quality of fibre is being affected. To overcome such problems, rainwater was conserved for in-situ jute retting and self-reliant eco-farming. Four such water conservation cum in-situ retting models were implemented by ICAR-CRIJAF for jute and allied fibres. The tank dimension of 40 ft × 30 ft × 5 ft is sufficient for retting of jute harvested from half-acre land. The total area of farming system which includes digging and bund area is about 180 m2. Provision is made for appropriate lining of in-situ retting tank with LDPE agri-film of 150-300 microns or RCC to minimize the seepage and percolation loss, particularly in light textured soil. In case, large field is available, tank dimension of 50 ft × 40 ft × 5 ft can also be adopted. By integrating the construction of in-situ retting tank through MGNREGA scheme, large number of man days will also be created (60-70 man days/tank). In addition to retting, the harvested water can be utilized in multiple ways. On dyke based horticulture (papaya, banana, vegetables), rearing of air breathing fish (telapia, magur, singhi), apiaries, duckary, etc. can also be integrated for getting an additional income per year. The cost of transporting of harvested jute bundles to the conventional retting pond can save up to ₹4000-6000 per acre. This technology will also be helpful in reducing negative impacts from extreme weather events like drought, cyclone, flood etc. through runoff, recycling and groundwater recharge.