 Salient achievements • Maintained 64 germplasm of date palm under national field repository. • Two elite male palm (CIAH/DP/M-01 IC-0632315 and CIAH/DP/M-03 IC-0624490) were identified for more pollen production. • Rain tolerant or late maturing genotype (IC-0624544) in date palm identified. • Identified suitable cultivars (fresh fruit-Barhee, Halawy, Khuneize for pind-Dhamas, Nagal for dry date-Medjool) for commercial cultivation of date palm in arid region. • Standardized somatic embryogenesis protocol of tissue culture and cell suspension culture system. • Standardized protocol for primary and secondary hardening of tissue culture plants in date palm cultivar Halawy and Khalas. • Standardized propagation through offshoot production technology in date palm. • Standardized protocol for dry date and browning reduction in date palm during storage. • Major insect (white scale, red palm weevil, lesser date moth, rhinoceros beetle) and disease (Alternaria leaf spot) were identified and management major recommended. 63 Horticultural Science 63 4. Knowledge /skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stakeholders • Protocol for production of disease free quality planting material of arid fruits.. • Tissue culture technique standardized for date palm. • Protocol for value added products. • Training module for producing disease free planting material. CIAH Bael var. Thar Srishti 64 ICAR Institutes Profile 64 ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CISH, Rehmankhera, P.O, Kakori, Uttar Pradesh 226101 ii. Name of the Director: Dr Neelima Garg (Act.) iii. Email Address/Phone Number: director.cish@icar.gov.in: 0522-2841022 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of subtropical horticultural crops. • Repository of subtropical horticultural crop genetic resources and scientific information. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. Activities • Management of genetic resources of mandated fruit crops and their conventional and molecular characterization. • Crop improvement through breeding and genetic engineering. • Enhancing productivity through improving quality and quantity of planting material using modern propagation techniques and root stocks, precision farming practices including mechanization and management of biotic and abiotic stresses. • Reduction in post harvest losses through improved post harvest management practices, value addition and diversification of products. • Human resource development, transfer of technology and evaluation of its socio-economic impact. • Data storage and retrieval on all aspects of mandated crops. 3. Salient achievements • Institute has developed two mango varieties viz. CISH Ambika, a regular bearing hybrid for export market and CISH Arunika to overcome the problem of biennial bearing; four guava varieties viz.