 Interactions of nematodes with bacteria, fungi, viruses, mycorrhizae and other nematodes. Nematodes as vectors of viruses and other microorganisms. 24 Unit 9 : Statistics Frequency distribution. Measures of central tendency and dispersion: mean, median, mode, standard deviation etc. Population distributions : normal, binomial and Poisson. Correlations: partial and multiple. Tests of significance: t, F and Chi square and randomized block, Latin square and split plot designs, their analysis and interpretation. 2.3 AGRICULTURAL ENTOMOLOGY Unit 1: Systematics History and development of Entomology, Evolution of insects, position of insects in the animal world, characteristics of phylum Arthropoda, structural features of important arthropod groups such as Trilobita, Chelicerata and Mandibulata, structural features of important classes of phylum Arthropoda viz. Arachnida, Crustacea, Chilopoda, Diplopoda and Hexapoda. Classification of insects up to order level, habits, habitats and distinguishing features of different Order and important Families. Unit 2: Morphology Body wall, its structure, outgrowths, endoskeleton, Body regions, segmentation, sclerites and sutures, Insect Colors. Head and head appendages, types of mouth parts, antennae, their structure and types. Thorax structure, thoracic appendages and their modification. Wings, their modification and venation, Abdomen; structure, abdominal appendages both in Pterygota and Apterygota. External genitalia, general structure and modification in important insect orders. Unit 3: Embryology, Internal Anatomy and Physiology Embryonic and post embryonic development, types of metamorphosis, physiology of ecdysis. General features and types of larvae and pupae. Structure, function and physiology of Digestive, Circulatory, Respiratory, Reproductive, Nervous and Excretory systems, Sense Organs; structure and types. Insect food and nutrition; minerals, carbohydrates, proteins and amino acids, lipids, vitamins and their role in growth and development, artificial diets. Unit 4: Ecology Concept of ecology, Environment and its components-biotic and abiotic factors and their effects on growth, development, population dynamics, distribution and dispersal. Principle of biogeography and insects biodiversity. Assessment of diversity indices. Biotic potential and environmental resistance. Ecosystems, agroecosystems analysis, their characteristics and functioning. Intra and inter specific relationship; competition, predator-prey and host-parasite interactions, ecological niche. Life table studies, population models. Food chain and food web. Arthropod population monitoring, pest forecasting. Diapause and causes of pest out breaks. Unit 5: Biological Control Importance and scope of biological control, history of biological control: Biocontrol agents-parasites, predators and insect pathogens. Important entomophagous insect Orders and Families.