 The use of higher-resolution data products such as Sentinel-2 can thus increase the confidence level of the emissions estimated using the ABA data product. 6. Conclusion Emissions from CRB pose serious health, environmental and climate concerns. It is critical to obtain accurate estimates of emissions from CRB across India to design and implement effective policies and institutional mechanisms to curb residue burning. In this study, we estimated sea­ sonal emissions from CRB across India at the district level from 2011 to 2020. To estimate emissions, we used a novel approach that quantifies ABA extracted from the MODIS global BA product, which can more accurately account for emissions compared to previous studies. Almost 80 % reduction in total estimates compared to previous studies occurs as previous studies used a constant value of 0.25 as the burnt fraction of crop residues, which can lead to overestimated emissions. We found that CRB of rice, wheat, and maize was responsible for 97 % of the estimated emissions across India, with rice residues contributing the most (55 %), wheat second (34 %) and maize the least (8 %) to emissions. However emissions from maize have tripled since 2011. Although the Kharif and Rabi growing seasons have contributed the most to emissions, there has been a considerable (almost 6 times) increase in the emissions from the summer season over the last decade. In addition, the emissions from non-IGP states have grown exponentially in recent years, with Madhya Pradesh contributing a large share, specifically 28 % of total emissions from all states. These patterns highlight the importance of continuous monitoring of CRB across crops and regions. By examining temporal trends in our data, we also find that several policies that have been promoted to reduce residue burning have been ineffective and have not resulted in a reduction of CRB across the IGP. Our study provides valuable information on when and where CRB is occurring in India, which can assist policymakers to target appropriate mitigation efforts. CRediT authorship contribution statement Monish Vijay Deshpande: Investigation, Methodology, Writing – original draft, Software, Data curation, analysis and interpretation; Nitish Kumar: Data curation, analysis and interpretation Dhanya­ lekshmi Pillai: Conceptualization, Results discussion and interpreta­ tion, Writing – review and editing, Funding acquisition; Vijesh V. Krishna: Results discussion and interpretation, Writing – review & editing; Meha Jain: Results discussion and interpretation, Writing – review & editing. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare the following financial interests/personal re­ lationships which may be considered as potential competing interests: Dhanyalekshmi Pillai reports financial support was provided by Inter­ national Maize and Wheat Improvement Center. Dhanyalekshmi Pillai reports financial support was provided by Max Planck Society.