00 T1- Control (no treatment) T2-Use of banana pseudostem @ 2000kg/ha (allowed to decompose in pond) T3- Use of banana pseudostem @ 2000kg/ha (removed from pond after 12-15 days of application) T4-Use of lime @ 5000kg/ha pond helped in achieving better growth rate of fish. It can be further concluded that water parameters in T2, T3 and T4 were more suitable for fish growth. In all the treatments the weight use of banana pseudostem helped in maintaining good water quality in pond, resulting in better fish-survival rate. Poor survival rate was recorded in control treatment (T1) where neither banana  FISHERIES pseudostem nor lime was applied. Chemical analysis Fish production The chemical analysis of juice extracted from banana pseudostem revealed that it is rich in minerals like Fe, Zn, Cu and Mn. The juice is slightly acidic in nature and it is very high in alkalinity as well as hardness. CONCLUSION Banana pseudostem plays effective role in creating favourable environment in the pond for the fish to survive and grow in unfavourable conditions. This is in agreement with the claim of the ITK. Fish production (kg/ha/crop of 10_month period) was high in T2 and T3 (2,142 kg and 2,122 kg, respectively), where banana pseudostem were used. Application of lime and T4 also yielded good fish production (2,021 kg/ha/crop). The ITK method (application of banana pseudostem) proved even superior to the recommended practice of lime application in obtaining higher fish production. During the culture period of 10 months, there was no incidence of disease outbreak in any treatment.  FISHERIES Code : 285 Title of the ITK : Effect of egg based fish bait to attract fish for easy catching Description of the ITK : Eggs of ants are collected from their nest especially from mango tree using a net with long handle made of bamboo. These eggs are mixed with moist bread or flour with a little ghee to make it semi-solid. This is then cut into small pieces and used as bait. It is very useful to lure fish especially in off-season. Higher catch leads to good earning to fishermen. Total cost may be Rs 4 and Rs 2 each bread and ghee, respectively for 50 baits. . Name and address of the discloser : Ms Saroja Bala Manna, Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore, (West Bengal) 721 627 Location of use of the ITK : Bahichard, Naikuri, Midnapore (West Bengal) 721 627 Experimenter : Dr D. Seenappa, Associate Professor, Aquaculture Extension Education Unit, University of Agricultural Sciences, Hebbal, Bangalore, (Karnataka) 560 024 METHODOLOGY Location The study was carried out in the University of Agricultural Sciences, Bangalore including identification of deep freshwater bodies (perennial tanks or lakes) that have stocks of both major carps and air-breathing fishes. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Experiment Standardization of different baits (semi-solid Fig. 1. Ants nest Fig. 2. Bait Fig. 3.