 The practice will promote farming of this high valued diversified species. Efforts are being made to transfer the technology of breeding and seed production to a private farmer in Barabanki district. • To review the Marine and Brackishwater cage farming along west coast of India, with special emphasis on Goa, Karnataka and Kerala, a survey was carried in the South and North Goa districts in Goa, Dakshin Kannada, Udupi and Uttar Kannada districts of Karnataka, Calicut, Kollam, Malappuam (Ponnani), Alappuzha (Thuravur Block) districts along Kerala coast. The production from brackishwater cage farming in different indigenous cages at Kerala and Karnataka carried out. The production in Kerala optimized as 25 kg/m3 from 2 m × 2 m × 1.5 m cages and Karnataka as 50 kg kg/m3 from 4 m × 2 m × 2 m rectangular cages. In Goa, the production rate was approximately 50 kg/m3 from 6 m × 6 m cages. • The suitable species identified for cage farming in brackishwater cages along Karnataka coast is Sea Bass, followed by Red Snapper and Grouper. In Kerala, cage farming is limited to Pearl spot, Sea Bass and Indian Pompano. • The stocking size optimized for brackishwater cage farming along Karnataka is 50 g for sea bass and red snapper. In addition to research work, some Emeritus Scientists were engaged in teaching advanced courses at PG and Doctoral levels, guiding postgraduate students in their research pursuits, and publication of books and development of practical and teaching manuals. Emeritus professor Salient achievements ICAR-Emeritus Professors taught 76 PhD, 81 MSc and 40 Undergraduate specialized courses to the students and thereby assisted in mitigating the shortage of experienced faculty at the AUs to impart quality higher agricultural education. As a part of their mandate, they also developed 36 teaching/practical manuals on the topics of current importance. In addition, to this they also guided 25 MSc and 31 PhD students. Library strengthening Under the library strengthening, component funds were provided to 56 agricultural universities. The main objective was to connect all the libraries through KOHA, installation of RFID in all libraries of universities . Support was provided for print books, print journals, e-books and e-journals not covered/available in CERA, digitisation of thesis (MSc and PhD) and other important documents, etc. The library strengthening grants have an impact upon the quality of education imparted in the agricultural universities as evident by the number of students qualifying for various national and international examinations. Latest books, e-journals, etc. helped students to improve research, formulate projects, and led to improvement in publication quality and helped them compete at national and regional level competitions. Many students have succeeded in securing admission for Masters/Doctoral studies in institutes of repute, within the country and abroad.