 Cooperative farming is of two major types: (i) a collection of individual farmers and farming on their own holdings jointly with a common agency formed and governed by themselves for Ethics in Agricultural Science: Gandhiji’s Principles 180 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR collectively purchasing the inputs for farming and for selling the produce; and (ii) a farming operation carried out collectively merging small individual holdings into a common unit and managed cooperatively. The benefits, in either case, are shared based on the size and value of the plot and the individual’s contribution. Nearly 80% Indian farms are small and marginal and cultivation in such small-holdings is uneconomical and non-profitable. Under such a situation if these marginal and small holdings can be consolidated and if the small and marginal farmers pool their land, resources and other inputs and then start cultivating their land jointly by forming a co-operative, they can get the benefits of large scale farming. Gandhiji believed our farmers shall not derive the full benefit of farming unless they take up cooperative farming and he further observed that it is better for 100 families in a village to collect their lands and divide the benefits than dividing the lands and staying poor due to small outputs. Government of India, following Gandhian Principles and Ethics on cooperative farming, had initiated formation of FPOs or Farmer Producer Organizations. There are farmers’ collectives, with membership mainly comprising small and marginal farmers. Presently, around 5000 FPOs are in existence in the country, which were formed under various initiatives of the Government of India including Small Farmers Agri-Business Consortia (SFAC), State Governments, NABARD and other organizations. Government of India wants to create nearly 10000 FPOs over the next five years. NABARD, SFAC and National Cooperative Development Corporation are to be given the responsibility to execute the programme to form the targeted number of FPOs. Government of India recently announced the following measures to promote FPOs for a prosperous and sustainable agriculture sector that enable farmers to enhance productivity through efficient, cost-effective and sustainable resource use and realize higher returns to the produce: (i) Launching of “Operation Greens” for onion, potato and tomato crops on the lines of Operation Flood with an allocation of Rs. 500 crores for promoting FPOs, agri-logistics, processing facilities and professional management; (ii) With a view to encouraging enabling environment for aggregation of farmers into FPOs and take advantage of economies of scale, the Government announced 100% tax deduction for FPOs with an annual turnover of up to Rs. 100 crores. Equity Grant Scheme is a government initiative to support the equity base of Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs) by providing matching equity grants subject to maximum of Rs. 15.