, in spite of Science-led Agricultural Development: Gandhian Thoughts 142 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR governments’ efforts to enhance the capacity of farmers through education, skill development and transfer of improved technologies. Gandhiji said, “to forget how to dig the earth and tend the soil is to forget ourselves”, which described the basic philosophy of farming and the toiling necessity of the farmer (Balaji, https://www.mkgandhi.org). However, with the introduction of machinery like tractor, electric water pumps and other machines the effort and involving time in farming activities have been reducing. In recent times, climate change has become a big challenge to manage. Changes in temperatures, rain fall, water levels, evaporation, and groundwater recharge, and issues like floods and droughts, etc., are greatly affecting water resources and the dependent economies like that of agriculture (Prasad 2001). The climate change impacts on natural resources would greatly affect food security as the production from terrestrial and aquatic systems would be hit. An ecological crisis is not a technological problem. It is basically a social and human problem. Unprecedented exploitation of nature by industrial society is a threat to the survival of future generations. Resources are depleted so fast that nature is not able to replenish the resources. Over-consumption and wasteful consumption are the two major reasons for the decline of natural resources. Consumption of resources only for the basic and essential needs of the human society is the best alternative for the crisis. As Gandhiji said, “Earth provides enough to satisfy every man’s needs, but not every man’s greed”. He pioneered the three sustainability principles ‘Reduce, Reuse and Recycle’, in India. All his life he did experiments, created awareness and published articles on these principles. The prospect of increasingly technology-led development is likely to bring in more social inequalities and environmental instabilities and expose the limits of the biosphere, in supporting the humanity’s dependence on the natural systems. The decline of valuable natural resources like forests, top-soils, water bodies and oceans will bring hardships to the people. It will deprive the livelihood opportunities of the poor permanently. The decline of resources like ground water will bring down the standard of living of a vast section of the society. It will result in the decline of the world economy in long run. The current concerns in India on sustainability, biodiversity conservation and environmental protection could have been much less, had we resisted the western model and embraced the Gandhian model of industrial development, rooted to the ethos of Indian civilization.