 Traceability: Blockchain can trace the origin of each pomegranate from the orchard to the consumer, ensuring transparency such Workflow of the proposed approach for multi-class classification of pomegranate fruits based on hybrid model being developed by ICAR- NRC on Pomegranate in collaboration with NIT-Suratkal Bacterial Fungal Healthy Classification Pomegranate Dataset Dataset Preprocessing Dataset Splitting Test (20%) Train (80%) Hybrid Model Prediction November–December 2024 13 that consumers can verify its quality and authenticity. For ensuring traceability in the export value chain of pomegranate, APEDA organizes sensitisation programmes on a regular basis in association with state governments to register farms under AnarNet – a system developed by APEDA. Further, INI farms, one of the leading farms in India have introduced features such as origin traceability for its individual fruits in international as well as domestic market under the technology-enabled program called ‘Fruit Route’. Supply chain management: Blockchain can optimize supply chain operations, reducing waste and the risk of counterfeits, thereby, ensuring food safety, and improving efficiency. A green, closed loop supply chain (CLSC) for pomegranate fruit based on the value chain can be implemented. A circular economy based on biochar, ethanol production and a type of compost processed as an organic fertilizer as a means of pomegranate waste management is a sustainable approach. Robotics Robotic systems can automate various tasks in pomegranate cultivation, reducing labour cost and improving efficiency. Harvesting: For robotic harvesting in orchards, the first and foremost is fruit detection and localisation. Farmer robots equipped with camera that capture images in field can be trained to differentiate fruits from non-fruit regions. This allows easier and automated harvesting. However, the fruit detection methods often face challenges such as changes in illumination, shielding of leaves and branches, overlapping of fruits to name some. Generally, fruit detection is based on 2D image analysis, however, recent trends suggest the applicability of 3D images for the same. In addition, robots can be used for sorting and grading and thus, robotic harvesters can efficiently pick pomegranates, reducing labour costs and minimizing damage to the fruit. Pruning and thinning: In future, as we face shortage of cultivable land, canopy structure of pomegranate plant is also bound to change from multi-stem to single stem shrub. This will not only make high density planting possible but also give way to mechanisation. Robotic systems can automate pruning and thinning tasks, improving fruit quality and yield. Mobile applications Farming management: Mobile apps can provide farmers with real-time data, weather forecasts, and expert advice, making it easier to manage their orchards.