 The implementation of USID (Unique Student ID) and UFID (Unique Faculty ID) was completed post correcting the existing duplicate USIDs through rigorous analysis of database and ETL (extract, transform and load) process. Developed database anomalies document with different anomalies in education portal database like inappropriate data types, incorrect USID, duplicate student data, wrong Aadhar card and many more and provided solutions. Major changes have been carried out in the database design Raised bed mulching and drip laying machine refined bio-oil blends containing 5,10,15,20 and 25% bio-oil was tested between 0 to 50ºC and was found stable. yy Raised bed mulching and drip laying machine with two row transplanting attachment was developed and its evaluation was done. yy Biomaterial-based hydrogels reinforced with cellulose nano-crystals developed using marine biopolymers and were assessed for tissue engineering and regenerative medicinal applications. Bilayer chitosan-alginate-poly vinyl alcohol scaffold was prepared and the biocompatibility tests revealed it’s wound healing ability. Technology has been developed for the preparation of nano chitosan- based biomaterial incorporated with chlorhexidine. Chitosan film as wound dressing material yy Developed serum based indirect plate ELISA using recombinant hypodermin C for diagnosis of goat warble fly disease. The patent for the recombinant hypodermin C based iELISA has been applied at Controller General of Patents, Designs and Trade Marks, New Delhi, India with the title “Diagnostic Kit For Goat Warble Fly Infection”. (Application number 202111024154, Date: May 31, 2021). Serum based ELISA kit for diagnosis of goat warble fly disease Human Resource Development icar annual report 2022-23 153 and schema to ensure cyber security. A more interactive Agricultural Education Portal 2.0 with improved user interface and experience was designed and developed. Various dashboards with quantitative insights, business intelligence and data representation/visualisation for different types of users such as research managers, university nodal officers and faculties were developed. keywords’ extraction along with its frequency in different years from the metadata of thesis titles available in Krishikosh repository. Frequency based keyword extraction technique is utilized to identify and quantify the prominent keywords/technology signifying the Govt. of India emphasis with respect to time frame. Based on this analysis, it indicates the numbers of research studies on prominent keywords/technology for which Govt. of India emphasis is increasing with time especially in MSc and PhD thesis program in various NARES organisations. Controlled Vocabulary solution– VocBench is a web-based, multilingual, collaborative development platform for managing OWL ontologies, SKOS(/XL) thesauri, Ontolex-lemon lexicons and generic RDF datasets.