 Periodical monitoring was done and the farmers were trained well in the production technology. The PVC ponds can be used at least for 5 years, with proper maintenance. Economics Milk yield and quality data from 12 farmers in the villages was continuously recorded for 5 weeks. For comparison, daily milk yield was computed by averaging the weekly milk output after 2 and 5 weeks of Azolla feeding. The economics were worked out by using the prevailing milk price of ` 30/liter during the Feeding of Azolla to cow study period. The additional income from improved milk yield per month was ` 540. A farmer can recover the additional investment that he made on PVC pond (` 2,100) in about 4 months. SUMMARY Field evaluation was done to grow Azolla with just rainwater, and use it as supplemental feed to the milch cows under Farmer First Program of ICAR. One kg of fresh Azolla was fed to the cows daily, and milk yield and quality were observed for 5 weeks. Azolla supplementation improved the mean daily milk production from each cow by 0.6 litres, and milk fat from 3.4-3.6. The supplementation of Azolla improved the average monthly income from milk sales by ` 540/cow. This simple technology can easily be adopted by small dairy farmers to improve the profits from dairying through the nutritive supplementation of Azolla. *Corresponding author email: girikanu@gmail.com Table 1. Effect of Azolla feeding on milk production and returns (Average of 12 farmers) Period Milk yield (liters/day) Returns per day from milk sale (`) Initial (before intervention) 10.7 321 After 2 weeks of feeding 11.2 336 After 5 weeks of feeding 11.3 339 Indian Farming 38 November 2024 Transforming rural agriculture Farmer FIRST Programme's success in Khordha district Akankshya Mohapatra1, H. Banu1, J. Debbarma1, A. S. Mahapatra1, S. K. Mohanty1, K. S. Das2 and H. K. De1* 1ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 002 2ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 097 The Farmer FIRST Programme, launched by ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar in 2016, is an innovative extension approach that integrates advanced technologies directly into farmers' fields, enhancing agricultural productivity and livelihoods. By emphasizing practical application and fostering direct interaction between farmers and scientists, the programme ensures that technological solutions are adapted to real-world conditions and farmer feedback is incorporated. This collaborative effort prioritizes farmers' resources and innovations, resulting in significant improvements in the adopted villages and contributing to better livelihoods for farmers and farm women.