 In ‘DAC’ technology 12-13 to 19-20 kg poultry excreta is required for production of about 1m3 of biogas during summer and winter, respectively. This quantity of biogas is sufficient for cooking three meals of an average family of 4-5 members. This can also be used as heat source at poultry farm. Spent slurry of poultry biogas has good manure value and germination potential and can be easily applied in agricultural fields for organic crop production without burning effect on plants which is a common problem with crude poultry excreta. This technology may be helpful in self-sustainability of rural poultry farmers in terms of their energy demand. The excreta of 5,000 layer birds has capacity to produce approximately 4,100 kg biogas/annum whose market value will be around ` 1.31 lakh, if cost of biogas is considered @ is considered ` 32.00/ kg. There is potential to produce around 128 tonnes of manure from spent slurry. The value of this manure will stand around ` 2.56 lakh on urea, phosphate, potash and micronutrient equivalence basis. Therefore, this technology has great potential of value addition to the tune of 5-6 times from invaluable poultry excreta. Besides, generating the financial gains to the poultry farmer, this technology has enormous positive impact on environment by drastically reducing pollutants, bad odour and flies thereby also helping in accomplishing the ‘Sawachch Bharata Mission’. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 85 Meat Plant-based quality and time-temperature indicator sensors were developed to assess the change in quality and temperature abuse conditions of chicken meat stored at different temperatures. The visible colour changing pattern in the developed sensors was highly correlated with the changes in quality parameters. Mutton cookies: They are rich source of proteins and energy and were prepared with 34% mutton. The ratio of meat and binders is kept at 40:60. The binders include all-purpose flour. The other non-meat ingredients were added over and above total meat and binders. The product is shelf-stable and can be stored at room temperature. The sensory evaluation of the product revealed high overall acceptability i.e. from extremely like to very much like by the panelists on 8-point hedonic scale. Goat-meat nuggets: Effects of aonla and curry leaves extracts incorporation by 1 to 2% was evaluated on the physicochemical, colour, textural, sensory characteristics as well as storage stability of goat- meat nuggets. Goat-meat nuggets with aonla and curry leaves extracts received significantly higher organoleptic scores as compared to control. The colour characteristics of products with aonla and curry leaves extracts showed higher stability than control during aerobic refrigerated storage. Products with aonla and curry leaves extracts showed significantly higher resistance to lipid peroxidation when compared to control.