 Hansra Member Professor & former Director, School of Agriculture, Indira Gandhi National Open University (IGNOU), New Delhi Dr. A.K. Mehta Member Assistant Director General (Agricultural Extension), Agricultural Extension Division (AED), ICAR, New Delhi Dr. S. Prabhu Kumar Member Zonal Project Director, Zone–VIII, ICAR, Hebbal, Secretary Bengaluru The Committee was assigned the following Terms of Reference (ToR): (i) To revisit the mandate of KVK taking into account the technological applications in the changing agricultural scenario. (ii) To suggest procedural guidelines for sanctioning/establishment of KVKs. (iii) To suggest domain of activities of KVKs. (iv) To suggest effective guidelines for coordination and monitoring. CHAPTER - 2 Committee and its Terms of Reference 5 Committee and its Terms of Reference (v) To provide an insight into the performance indicators required for the evaluation of the performance of KVKs from time to time. (vi) To suggest modalities for technological backstopping to KVKs by Directorates of Extension Education of SAUs/ICAR Institutes. (vii) To suggest measures for instilling a sense of belongingness in the organizations to whom KVKs are sanctioned. (viii) To suggest areas of convergence/linkages between KVKs and other Government of India schemes e.g. Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA). (ix) To suggest appropriate infrastructural facilities to be provided to KVKs for their effective functioning. (x) To suggest appropriate personnel policies including salary structure, career advancement and retirement benefits in respect of the staff of the KVKs. (xi) To suggest procedures to be followed by KVKs in making procurement of stores, e.g. stationery, equipments, chemicals & fertilizers, furniture, vehicles etc., and for undertaking various items under works. (xii) To take stock of the financial procedures in vogue in KVKs and suggest guidelines aiming at transparency in incurring expenditure and effective utilization of funds provided by ICAR. (xiii) Any other matter considered relevant for making the KVK system effective, vibrant and visible. The AED of ICAR had prepared the required background documents for the Committee in consultation with the Member Secretary, Zonal Project Directors and Chairpersons of QRTs constituted for different zones. The first meeting of the Committee was held to have detailed deliberations with Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), Assistant Director General (Agricultural Extension), Zonal Project Directors, Scientists and officers from the AED on 16 August, 2011 in the Board Room of National Agricultural Sciences Complex (NASC), New Delhi. Based on deliberations and assigned ToR, the Committee decided to proceed further with the following frame work/action plan: ●To examine the recommendations of earlier Review Committees of KVK system and to identify especially those recommendations, which are still relevant but have not been implemented.