 The diameter of the main trunks of these vessels and median artery gradually decreased distally; however, their Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY entire course along side radius and ulna as well as carpal joint was very clear. The collateral ulnar artery coursed mainly on caudal aspect of ulna and tapered off quickly by the distal third diaphyseal aspect of ulna. All along their course, all these main arteries gave rise to numerous minute branches, which supplied the bones and soft tissues of the area. The density of arterioles and other vessels was relatively more in proximal as well as distal metaphyseal areas of radius and ulna, whereas at rest of the places the penetration of these smaller vessels was almost uniform. At dorsal aspect of radius the intensity of vascular network appeared further less due to presence of less quantity of soft tissue as such (Fig 3 Al andBl). Angiograms of the limb treated with harjore paste (group B) on day 15 after operation revealed extensive vascular proliferation in the proximal ulnar region. The radio-density was profound in the developing callus surrounding the fracture site, indicating its extensive vascularization (Fig. 3 B2). The angiograms in the control group at this stage revealed only slight increase in overall vascular proliferative activity compared with that in the treated group. No increase in radio-density just around the fracture fragments was noticed in this group indicating little healing activity at the site (Fig. 3 A2). On day 30, increased vascularity was seen in Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE both the groups. However, the minute vascular network was less prominent in group B and relatively more pronounced in group As compared with that on day 15 (Fig. 3 A3 and B3). The fracture line was totally masked by radiodense vessels coursing around the fracture site in group B. The fracture line was clearly visible in group A, indicating lesser vascularization than in group B. The opacification of the site due to increased vascularity decreased in both the groups on day 45. The angiograms of the control group at this stage revealed increased radio-density at fracture line, indicating greater healing tissue progression at the site compared with that on day 30. However, the increase in local vascularity was relatively less compared with that in test group (Fig. 3 A4 and B4). In this group the fracture line was still totally obscured by radio-dense vessels. The vascular pattern in test group resembled the normal (day 0) angiogram except with a slight increased vascular network opacity day on day 60 after operation. But, in control group the fracture line was still slightly visible, indicating incomplete union at the fracture site (Fig. 3 A5 and B 5).