 for modulating dyslipidemia and lipid metabolism: The prevalence of dyslipidemia leading to obesity is rapidly increasing; however, limited medications are presently available in the market. Obesity is a dyslipidemic disorder, wherein, derangement in lipid metabolism has been seen along with abnormal lipid levels, often associated with higher storage of lipid in adipocytes. It is interesting to note that dyslipidemia is associated with a cluster of diseases thereby, being a central player in development of metabolic syndrome. The manifestation of syndrome has decreased life expectancy and its quality. G. indica fruit juice was standardised for the hydroxycitric acid content and its efficacy for modulating dyslipidemia and lipid metabolism were validated in cafeteria diet-fed rat model. Results showed that cafeteria diet fed animals exhibited increased body weight, increased food intake, decreased water intake, increased glucose intolerance and dyslipidemia. Treatment with G. indica fruit juice for 4 weeks, reduced the body weight, improved the metabolic parameters like glucose sensitivity, dyslipidemia, insulin and leptin levels and lipid metabolizing levels without causing toxicity. The results obtained were better than orlistat, which is a standard mode of chemotherapy for management of dyslipidemic obesity. Standardized extracts from exhibiting potential antibacterial activity against methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus: Antibacterial activity of 59 standardized extracts was screened against methicillin- resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA, ATCC 33591) and methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus (MSSA, ATCC 25923). The antibiofilm formation effects of the extracts with significant antimicrobial activity were also studied. Extracts M10, M12, M24, M36, M45, M51 Infestation before application Efficacy after 7 days of application Fig. 2. Field evaluation of anti-tick natural phyto- pharmaceutical formulation September–October 2023 47 and M58 showed significant antimicrobial activity and lower MIC against the ATCC strains of S. aureus as compared to the standard antibiotics. These extracts also showed very low MIC against 5 clinical isolates of MRSA. Extract M24 showed anti-biofilm activity at all the concentrations starting from 0.25 g/ml. Extract M12 and M36 showed inhibition but at higher concentrations. Extract M10 and M45 showed no anti-biofilm activity at any concentrations. However, extract M51 and M58 showed anti-biofilm activity at lower concentrations but no inhibition at higher concentrations. These extracts could find wide pharmaceutical use as they were as efficacious as ciprofloxacin. Technologies developed Supercritical Fluid Extraction of Medicinal Plants: Supercritical fluid extraction (SFE) was carried out using pilot scale equipment with a 1-L extraction vessel (Fig. 3).