36 ha/h @ row to row spacing of 90 cm. The overall discomfort rating (ODR) was 38% lesser than traditional method due to reduced bending posture. A gender friendly double lever hand- held vegetable transplanter was developed for transplanting of vegetable plug seedlings in soil or plastic mulch bed. The traditional practice of manual weeding in paddy requires about 300 man-h/ha. Presently no mechanical weeder is available for intra- row weeding of field crops. To counter these problems a five row paddy weeder was developed, which showed zero percentage of intact weeds in inter-rows and 71% of the weeds were destroyed for intra row. The SPAD meter, a portable unit, may be used by KVKs, SAUs, ICAR Institutes and farmers for indirect estimation of chlorophyll content of crop leaves and subsequent assessment of nitrogen requirement of the crop. The vertical boom type air assisted sprayer with sensor attachment was developed to deliver the precise amount of chemicals to match the tree configurations and reduce pesticide use and environmental pollution. Use of pneumatic cotton picker saved 36% time and 58% cost as compared to conventional method. A cost effective electric motor operated two-way garlic stem and root cutter was developed for reduction of human drudgery with increased output capacity. To meet the future requirement of energy and food, an agri-voltaic system was developed in which electricity generation, crop production and rainwater harvesting can be done on a single land unit. Such system of 105 kW capacity was established at ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur. The cost of installation was about ` 52.33 lakh for 105 kW systems and annual income will be about ` 7.5 -8.0 lakh/ year. An existing machine was upgraded to perform stubble shaving, off-barring, root pruning and fertilizer placement (SORF) operations under trash mulched conditions with 12.6% higher B:C ratio. Water pumped by solar pumping systems was used for agriculture and for augmentation of the adjoining ponds to be used for fish production. A community-based solar lift irrigation system was developed on Kuwari Rivulet, Madhya Pradesh. The crop yield increased compared with crop grown before installation of solar irrigation system. Besides, system also generates 10,000 watts electricity through 40 solar panels (each panel of 250 watts) Post-harvest management and value-addition: A process, standardized for the production of pectin from dried kinnow fruit waste, resulted in 10 to 11% purified pectin as compared to commercial processing (6 to 7%). The honeycomb structured packaging material, developed based on the average size of fig fruits, effectively minimized transportation losses (< 2%) in fresh fig fruits and enhanced shelf life from 3 to 5 days compared to conventional packaging practice.