 Uniform pairs of A- and B-lines which conform to the standards of parental lines are identified. Remnant seed of the A-lines of the selected pure pairs is bulked. This forms Nucleus seed bulk of A-line. Restorer line (R-line): This can be done in similar procedure as B-line multiplication. Breeder/Foundation seed production Breeder seed of hybrid parents is produced under the direct control of the sponsoring plant breeder. This class of seed is inspected by a monitoring team consisting of a breeder, seed certification officer, representatives of National Seed Corporation (NSC) and State Seed Corporation (SSC). Foundation seed is produced from Breeder seed, the production of which is carefully supervised or approved by the breeder and seed certification agency at the experimental station or recognized seed farms. Male-sterile (A) line and maintainer (B) line: The A-line is multiplied by planting A- and B-lines in alternate set, usually in the ratio of 4:2. The B-line is planted in 4–8 border rows around the production block to ensure adequate pollen supply to the A-line. Careful and strict roguing is necessary in A- and B-lines. Pollen shedders should be removed in the A-line, if any. The B-line rows are harvested immediately after completion of flowering period. At maturity, the A-line rows are harvested and bulked. For breeder seed production of B-lines a separate production plot of 0.1 ha under isolation (1000 m) should be planted using the nucleus seed stock. Foundation seeds are produced by planting Breeder seed. The roguing and other procedures are similar to Nucleus seed production method. Restorer (R) line: Breeder/Foundation seed production of R-lines is done by bulk planting under isolation (1000 m). Nucleus seed stock is used to produce breeder seed, and breeder seed is used to produce foundation seed (Table 1). Seed plots should be 0.1–0.2 ha for R-lines and at least 3000–5000 plants should be maintained. The crop should be inspected at the following stages of growth to identify deviants for different characters: • At 18 days after sowing: Deviants for early vigour • At 30–35 days after sowing: Deviants for tillering, plant height and other traits • Boot leaf stage: Deviants based on early flowering • At 50% flowering: Deviants for late flowering, panicle exertion and panicle type (and pollen shedders in A-line) • At Maturity stage: Deviants for panicle, seed type and seed colour Identified off-type plants should be removed by uprooting as cutting of plants may lead to ratoon tillers. Certified seed production The stipulated isolation distance for certified seed production is 200 m. The pattern of planting and seed production is the same as for the breeder and foundation seed production. Production must be acceptable to seed certifying agency and should fulfill all the requirements of certification. Certified seeds are generally arranged through contract growers.