 Guchhi occupies different habitats, the predominant ones being burnt woodlands, apple orchards, leaf litter, vicinity to moist places where water is predominant, beneath trees, beneath stones, shrubs, pastures etc. The habitat preference also clearly emerges from the depiction of percentage of occurrence as shown in Table 3. The local vernacular names of guchhi in the  ETHNIC FOOD communication means earlier. The different species of Morchella are associated with different types of vegetation as shown in Table 5. The morels are mainly associated with trees, ferns, grasslands, and are also predominantly with the areas where woodlands have been burnt in the recent past. Morchella is served as a special delicacy on some festive occasions or to some distinguished guests. The Kinnauries consume morels in many different ways and a variety of recipes are locally available for their preparation. These recipes are named differently in different areas. The recipes and the locally used ingredients with traditional nomenclature are presented in Table 6. List of modern recipes is furnished in Table 7. High market value has reduced the local consumption of Morchella to a great extent. Now the villagers prefer to sell them because they receive good returns. Most of the collection produce goes to markets in Delhi and Amritsar Table 3. Guchhi mushroom (Morchella spp) habitats Habitat Per cent occurrence Brunt woodlands of forests 40–42 Orchards (fruit trees) 5–6 Sutad-leaf litter 5–6 Near water resources 15–20 Beneath tree 5–6 Beneath stones 8–10 Shrubs 8–10 Grass lands 2–3 Pastures 10–12 Table 4. Local vernacular names of Morchella spp Area visited District Local, vernacular name Kalpa, Roghi, Chinni, Kashmir Kinnaur Jangmutz, jangmoo, jangmooch, ban-jangmoo, rok Nichar, Nigulsari Kinnaur Jangmu, rangnu Sangla, Rakchham, Dangdangshi, Khrogla Kinnaur Rangmuto, rangmutz, rangmooch rangnu Kothigaon Kinnaur Jangmutz, jangmoo Ropa, Rally Kinnaur Jangmoo Rushkalang, Kamru Kinnaur Rangmutz, rangmooch, rangnu Table 5. Mushroom and associated vegetation Type of mushroom Tree Fern Fruit Grassland Burnt woodland Black (Concial pileus) No Yes Strawberry, Berberis, Artimezia Simple grass Yes Black (Globular pileus) No Yes Yes Yes Yes White Pinus, Cedrus Yes No Yes Yes Brown No Yes No Yes Yes Yellow No No No Yes No areas visited in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh are shown in Table 4. Different valleys and even different villages call them by different names. In their local dialects these names figure as: jangmutz, jangmoo, jangmooch, rangmuto, rangnu etc. This again speaks of the lack of proper  ETHNIC FOOD Table 6.