 Furthermore, it is well known for its lean meat, which contains easily digestible fat with a low melting point and a high concentration of essential amino acids. It is a highly-priced fish, especially in West Bengal, Assam, Tripura and Bihar, and fetches a good value in the Indian domestic market. Owing to high consumer demand and price, and its ability to survive out of the water for extended periods in moist conditions, A. testudineus is being considered as one of the potential candidate species for aquaculture in India. Though it is self-recruited species, but in recent times its population has drastically reduced from the natural water bodies and become a threatened species. This is mainly because of the wanton destruction of habitat and ecosystem in most water bodies, indiscriminate harvesting, drying of the shallow marshy water bodies and the menace of pollution. Though this species has all the potential characteristics to be a candidate fish species for aquaculture, but culture practices of this species are not much popularised owing to non- availability of the quality seed and grow-out technology. In contrast to the Indian major carps, where fish are bred in hatcheries and seeds are sold in the open market, there are no large-scale seed production centres for Anabas. Lack of proper knowledge in breeding behaviour and non-availability of quality brood-stock are the major constrains for the less availability of the Anabas seed. In this case, an attempt was made for mass production of A. testudineus utilizing sympathetic breeding behaviour in natural shallow ponds. Anabas testudineus mature brood female Anabas testudineus mature brood male Indian Farming 27 July 2023 Mature Anabas testudineus collected from the natural brood-stock pond Brood-stock management The institute maintains approximately 300 healthy Anabas brood-stock in an earthen brood- stock pond (40 m × 20 m) with a centrally deeper portion of 10 m × 5 m × 1.2 m depth. The whole area was covered with aquatic weeds and rice plants. A peripheral steep dyke (embankment) was created (0.5 m) and the whole area was further surrounded by a fine mesh plastic net to prevent fish escapement. In the pond, fish were fed daily with commercial feed (22% protein) and fertilization of the pond was done with cow dung (1000 kg/ha/month) on regular basis.The ratio of female and male was assumed to be 1:1 ratio. The water level in the breeding ground was maintained at 15–20 cm (deeper portion was about 1.0 m). Usually, fish were allowed to remain in the same area to facilitate natural breeding. Brood-stock conditioning, breeding and fry collection A. testudineus is bisexual and matures in 6 months. The fish naturally breeds once in a year but the breeding season varies from place to place. The breeding season for climbing perch starts in April and continues until late August, with a peak in May-June. The adults of A.