934 million tonnes consisting of 2.017 million tonnes of demersal resources, 1.673 million tonnes of pelagic resources and 0.244 million tonnes of oceanic resources. The potential yield estimates were made for 68 species for the first time. INLAND SECTOR Assessment of Productive Potential of Wetlands by Satellite Imagery Satellite USS-III images of IRS-IC/ID in respect of West Bengal were analysed for estimation of size and shape of the water bodies in different districts. Water temperature, pH, salinity, nitrate, total nitrogen, calcium, gross primary production and respiration were analysed in selected water bodies and the results indicated that these parameters can be estimated using properties of satellite images pertaining to the water body. GIS was created on the basis of data collected from the field. Based on the information extracted from the satellite image of West Bengal, a geographical information system (GIS) has been developed in respect of water bodies more than 50 ha in size to help the planners and decision makers in advocating the optimum management policies. Fish Yield Assessment of Reservoirs Ecological investigations of five reservoirs of southern Rajasthan were conducted. They were shallow reservoirs with alkaline water. The fish yield in the reservoirs ranged from 23.0 to 172 kg/ha with dominance of major and minor carps. Based on the production potential ranging from 350 in Kothari to 500 kg/ha in Khari and Udaisagar, these reservoirs can be categorised as highly productive. Stocking of Indian major carps @ 150 fingerlings in Kothari to 1500 fingerlings/ha in Khari and Udaisagar reservoirs have been suggested. Fishery Status of Kerala Backwaters The fishery and biology of prawns in Kayamkulam backwater of Kerala were studied. Penaeus indicus, Metapenaeus dobsoni and M. monoceros contributed substantially (831 tonnes) to the total catch. These species fished with fine mesh, seine nets and gill nets are subjected to both recruitment overfishing and growth overfishing. Strict regulation of exploitation by enhancing the mesh size of seine nets has been suggested. Identification and Cataloguing of Ornamental Fishes of North East Region Identification and cataloguing of potential ornamental fish species have been done in the north-eastern states and West Bengal. Breeding of ornamental fishes is being standardized. Development of Fish Health Assessment Method A qualitative health assessment index (HAI) for rapid evaluation of fish condition ● A polyculture experiment with stocking density of 38,800 nos/ha (mullet, pearlspot, P. indicus, P. monodon) was carried out in 0.05 ha. A total quantity of 78.