 The cake formulation consists of malted ragi, amaranth and sprouted soybean forming gluten free flour, banana and yoghurt as egg replacer complex and cholesterol free vegetable oil instead of saturated fat which makes it rich in protein (5 g), minerals (1.4 g), iron (4.5 mg) with good antioxidant activity for 100 g of cake. This is a unique egg less preparation and best suited for people who have gluten allergy. Re-using the existing fibres and textiles, reduces the need for newly manufactured fibres and saves water, energy, dyes and chemicals, which reduces the carbon footprint. The fibres were extracted from pre-consumer cotton knitted fabric waste and converted into yarn by blending this recycled cotton fibre (RF) with virgin cotton (VC) fibre in different blend proportions.The blending in 50:50 (RF:VC) provided better yarn properties and more suitable for home textiles applications such as bed linen, furnishing fabrics, interior decoration accessories etc. Electro spun nanofiber-based micronutrient delivery matrix was developed to enhance the nutrient use efficiency, as compared to bulk nutrient application. The needle electrospinning machine was used to produce zinc sulphate impregnated electro spun nanofiber mat. The banana pseudo stem has potential for extraction of textile fibres, sap for dyeing and finishing, and other portion for making paper-based products. Semi-solid banana plant biomass was used for making paperboard, similar to paper with higher areal density and they are comparable with conventional handmade paper. Application of activated carbon derived from jute stick, NINFET-JAC, as an alternative to graphitized carbon black, was found effective for pesticide residue analysis in various crops like okra, spinach, pomegranate, tea etc. Sheep wool contains about 95% keratins which have huge applications in medical and pharmaceutical industries. Coarser grade wool having no textile use can be used for extraction of keratin. ICAR-NINFET has developed a microbial protocol for keratin extraction from animal hair. Fibre producing species of nettle are European nettle and Himalayan nettle. NINFET has developed 100% nettle, nettle/viscose (75:25, 50:50,25:75), and nettle/polyester (75:25, 50:50, 25:75) blended yarn and also union fabrics using cotton yarn in warp and these nettle-based yarns in the weft. These blended fabrics are suitable for fashion apparel, garments, shawls, stole, scarf, saree etc. Climate Resilient Agriculture: In recent years, land-atmosphere coupling in many parts of the world has been identified to have raised temperatures and aridity. Studies using consistent methodology and metrics from multiple data sources established that the drying land surface turns into a source of heat generation and drought exacerbation due to reduced evaporative cooling and increases atmospheric heating from sensible heat flux.