 Kardang, Tehsil - Keylong, Lahaul and Spiti (Himachal Padesh) Location of use of the ITK : This ITK is used in Keylong tehsil of dist. Lahaul and Spiti of Himachal Pradesh. This district is situated in the west of Great Himalayan range between 30째 21" and 30째 50" 57' north latitude and 75째 46" 29' and 78째 41" 34' East latitudes. Basically, the people have agriculture and animal husbandry as the main occupations. The climate of the district is most suited for production of temperate fruits and vegetables of very high quality. Majority of the area is under cold desert and is isolated, fragile, marginal and inaccessible. These areas are known for traditional ethos and wisdom for natural resource management. Experimenters : Dr A.C. Varshney, Professor and Head; Dr S.P. Tyagi, Assistant Professor; Dr M.S. Kanwar, Assistant Professor; Dr S.K. Sharma, Assistant Professor and Dr Adarsh Kumar, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, COVAS, CSKHPKV Palampur (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY PRA and field study The experimenters visited a number of villages in Lahaul and Spiti districts, viz. Keylong, Kardang, Gauzang, Gemur, Tandi, Sansa, Tholang, Jalma, Trilokinath, Udaypur, Gondhla, Sissu, Kaza, Sagnam, Kibber and Losar. The plant manu is regularly cultivated in some of these villages. A number of local people, local veterinary practitioners, local medicine practitioners (amchis), Ayurvedic practitioners (vaidyas) and local medicinal traders were contacted for their experience, if any, about the use of this plant as an adjunct to overall fracture management in animals. To draw conclusion for scientific validation of this ITK, information was collected in the form of a proforma. Manu plants and roots are shown in Fig. 1. Experiment The experimental study was conducted in the Department of Surgery and Radiology, COVAS, CSKHPKV, Palampur, (Himachal Pradesh). The study was conducted on five adult healthy mongrel dogs of either sex (3 male and 2 female)  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Manu flowers Manu roots close-up Manu flowers Cultivated manu Dried manu roots Fig 1. View of Manu flowers and roots weighing 10-18 kg, divided into two groups. The first group of three animals was kept as test group, whereas the second group of two animals served as the control group. Before start of experiment, the animals were acclimatized in college kennels as per standard practice. The animals were dewormed with suspension albendazole (Albomar, Agrivet India Ltd) @ 10 mg/kg body weight orally and vaccinated prophylactically against rabies by   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY injection of Raksharab (Indian Immunologicals) @ 1 ml per animal given subcutaneously. All the animals were maintained on standard and uniform diet during the entire course of study. Preparation of manu root paste or ointment The roots of manu plant (Inula recemosa) were completely dried in oven and were finely to powdered. 20 g powder was used.