 It consists of a double pass parallel plate solar collector with UV stabilized high-density polyethylene film used as transmitter and black HDPE film used as absorber sheet. The temperature and humidity inside the drying chamber is 25-30°C higher and 20% lower respectively than the ambient temperature and humidity. When the temperature inside the drying chamber reduced below a pre-set level, the electronic control system activates the electric heaters to maintain the temperature inside the drying chamber. A separate electronic control system is incorporated to switch off the dryer when the drying is completed. The dryer capacity is 3,000 coconuts/batch and the drying time is 32 hours. Studies on abundance of the Eriophyid mite showed that higher temperature combined with high relative humidity were congenial for rapid multiplication of the mite. Intermittent summer rains followed by dry weather were favourable for the population build-up. ARECANUT In arecanut, among the crosses Hirehalli Dwarf × Sumangala and Hirehalli Dwarf × Sreemangala minimum height and maximum stem girth of 2.42 and 2.50 m and 64.99 and 61.11 cm respectively were recorded. Among hybrids, maximum ripe nut yield of 9.14 kg/palm was recorded in the cross HD × Sumangala. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 63 C O C O A A new disease on cocoa, vascular streak die back or cocoa wilt, was seen in parts of Karnataka with an average incidence of 6.69%. The cocoa plants of 2-5 years old were found to be susceptible to infection under field conditions. The disease appears during September after the south-west monsoon and reaches maximum during October-March and declines to a minimum thereafter. The visible symptoms of the diseased plants are yellowing or browning of leaves, wilting of branches and finally death of the whole plants. OIL PALM The compost made from oil palm wastes contains 1.4% N, 0.13% P, 0.63% K, 0.28% Ca and 0.26% Mg in addition to the micronutrients. On per hectare basis, this contributes about 167 kg of N, 37 kg P2O5 and 90 kg of K2O compared to the recommended inorganic fertilizer dosage of 177 kg N, 89 kg P2O5 and 177 kg of K2O. Thus the composted oil palm wastes can meet the fertilizer needs to the tune of 94% N, P2O5 and 51% K2O requirement of the crop. The effect of different levels of irrigation and fertilizer along with various irrigation methods on the morphological and physiological parameters during the pre-bearing stage of oil palm was studied. The number of leaves did not vary significantly among different irrigation and fertilizer levels. But it varied significantly among different irrigation methods evaluated. Survey conducted at Krishna, East and West Godavari districts of Andhra Pradesh to ascertain the leaf nutrient status in 1,086 mature oil palm plantations revealed that majority of plantations had optimum leaf nitrogen content except Krishna, where 87.5% of the plantations were deficient in nitrogen.