 The four pillars of education described above cannot and must not be related exclusively to one phase of life or to a single place. The phases and areas of education must be rethought and must complement and interpenetrate one another. It is only through such a perspective of education that all can drive the greatest benefits, though their lives, from an ever broadening educational environment. This perspective of four pillars of education, is advocated by the UNESCO International Commission on Education for the twenty first century, for both developing and the developed world. The perspective presented above in the National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 document reasserted the need for it to reform the present Indian education system. Our present formal higher education system tends to emphasize the acquisition of knowledge to the detriment of other types of learning. But it was considered vital to conceive imparting education in a more encompassing fashion. Such a vision has been described in the new NEP 2020. It is expected to guide future educational reforms and policy, in relation to both contents and to methods. The 6th Deans Committee of ICAR that has been tasked to restructure the existing course curricula of agricultural education vis a vis NEP 2020, has used this perspective of four pillars of education as a guiding thought, along with several other aspects of NEP, in reframing the new course curricula across all disciplines of agricultural education. Former Vice Chancellor, GBPUA&T, Pantnagar; SKUAST-K Srinagar; CSK HPKV Palampur Email: tpartap52@gmal.com OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 35 E ducation is an essential pillar of an individual and a nation that ignite minds, enlightens, foster creativity and empower the human. It is a purposeful activity directed at transmitting knowledge, cultivate skills and character traits which includes the development of understanding, rationality, attitude, kindness and honesty. It increases self-confidence and assists in developing the personality of an individual. India celebrates National Education Day on 11 November every year since 2008 to mark the birth anniversary of the first Minister of Education of independent India, Maulana Abul Kalam Azad who regarded schools as the laboratories that can produce the brilliant minds of the future. Agriculture plays a very important role in an economy and well-being of a society as well as it is considered to be the backbone of the economic system for developing countries. For decades, agriculture has been related with the production of vital food crops. Agriculture not only provides food and raw material but also offers employment opportunities to a considerable proportion of the population. It is important to understand that agriculture is not limited to farming alone, rather it is a sustainable way of life. Agricultural Sciences and Technology are evolving and advancing to face a variety of challenges and problems.