 On the basis of clinical, haematological, biochemical, radiological and angiographic studies, it can be inferred that the use of harjore (Cissus quandrangularis) paste over fractured Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY area helped in healing of bone without any apparent adverse effects in dogs. The application of harjore paste increased the local blood vascularity, which in turn brought more nutrients, phagocytes and osteoblats at the fracture site and thereby generating greater osteogenic turnover. This facilitated the fracture-healing process through early bridging of fracture gap, rapid gain in structural strength of bone and early remodelling of fracture callus. In cattle, the calcium level on days 15, 45 and 60 in both the groups was similar except on day 30 (Table 10) in which it decreased significantly (P <0.05) in harjore treated group. However, on day 0 (before plastering) the calcium level was elevated significantly (P <0.01) in group 2, in which PoP was applied. The repair of bone is fundamentally the same, as healing of any other connective tissue but it is modified by the specialized feature of calcification (Singh and Udupa; 1965). Calcium and ascorbic acid are quite effective in accelerating the rate of bone healing; however, the exact reason of this combination is not known. It is expected that in the presence of ascorbic acid, calcium protein complex is formed, which reaches the fractured site through blood and helps in the healing process of the bone. Srivastava (1982) reported that the tribal people of Chhotanagpur used the paste of this plant as external application in fracture cases. The constituent of th;s plant has been analysed as calcium oxalate, carotene and ascorbic acid. This herbal product also contains an steroidal fraction (3-keto steroid), which possesses anabolic properties. The phosphorus level increased significantly increased on days 0, 15, 30, 45 and 60 in harjore treated animals. Phosphorus plays a significantrole in healing of fractured bones. The process of calcium deposition and osteogenesis is enhanced due to increased level of phosphorus, which is needed to produce optimal condition for healing. The extent of lameness did not indicate the complete cure of fractured bone even on day 60. In relation to cure in the extent of lameness, cases treated with PoP were superior to paste of harjore (Table 10). No marked difference in SAP was observed Table 10. Effect of fracture healing using harjore and plaster on calcium and phosphorus concentration and SAP activity in cattle at Ranchi Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE between the treated groups however, the values were elevated on days 0 and 15 (Table 10). The alkaline phophatase activity increases from first to third week, and therafter decreases (Singh, J 986).