 (2017) Indian Farming 4 September 2023 (PMSY) for bringing vibrancy to the sector and raising the level of seaweed production from 25,000 tonnes in 2020 to 1,12,000 tonnes by 2025 through the establishment of seaweed seed banks, nurseries, tissue culture units, processing and marketing units, etc. over the coastal states. Seaweed cultivation in India India has nearly 8,000 km of coastal area including the coastal line of Andaman and Nicobar and Lakshadweep Islands. The long bio-diverse rich coastline of the country is providing a huge potential to grow marine algae for human consumption and other commercial purposes. As per the Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI) report, India has the potential to produce around 9.7 million tonnes of seaweeds in 342 identified potential sites but our country was able to produce 34,000 tonnes (in 2021) which is only 0.01% of the world production and 2.5% of the actual production potential of our country. Seaweed cultivation by coastal farmers is a sustainable and environment-friendly activity that can provide additional income for the fisherman community and improve their livelihood. Seaweeds are broadly categorized into 3 types based on their pigments, viz. Brown (Phaeophyta), Green (Chlorophyta) and Red (Rhodophyta). Red seaweeds are abundant in our country followed by green and brown seaweeds (Table 1). Seaweeds are rapidly growing macroalgae and can be harvested within 2 months (45–60 days) of planting. The Indian coastal area has around 1153 species of seaweed from 271 genera, out of which 60 species have economic value. The maximum number of seaweeds are recorded from the Tamil Nadu state. In Tamil Nadu, Mandapam village alone has 180 species of seaweeds; among them, 40 species have economic potential. Seaweed cultivation in India started in the early 1990s with the introduction of Kappaphycus alvarezii in Goa and later it expanded to other coastal states of India. Initially, the cultivation was done with wild seeds collected from the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. Later in the late 1990s Eucheuma denticulatum which is native to the Indo-Pacific region was introduced to India and now, it is mainly cultivated in Tamil Nadu and Kerala states. Both these seaweeds are cultivated and harvested for their carrageenan content which is widely used in the food industry as a food additive and thickener, and in the cosmetic and pharmaceutical industries. Methods of seaweed cultivation In our country, seaweed cultivation is mainly done by adopting traditional methods. In this method, farming communities collect the seeds from the wild and sow them on nets or ropes in shallow coastal water. From an agronomic point of view, seaweeds are of two types: clonal and non-clonal. Clonal seaweed cultivation is a single- step method and is very popular in many developing countries as their cultivation does not require nursery rearing of seedlings and expensive infrastructural support or expertise in cultivation.