 Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Jackfruit: A large, evergreen tree, 10-15 m in height, indigenous to the evergreen forests of the western ghats at altitudes of 450-1,200 m, and cultivated throughout the hotter parts of India. Stem straight, cylindrical, covered with smooth or slightly rough bark; bark green or black, 1.25 cm thick, exuding milky latex; leaves broad 5-25 cm x 3.5-12 cm, obovate-elliptic to elliptic, decurrent, glabrous, entire; inflorescence solitary axillary, cauliflorous and ramiflorous on short leafy shoots, male heads sessile or on short peduncled receptacles, sometimes borne on the ultimate twigs, female heads on oblong ovoid receptacle with simple spathulate styles excerted to 1.5 mm; syncarp, 30-100 cm x 25-30 cm, cylidric or somewhat clavate, yellow, drying to brown with a strong sweet odour, covered with closely set, firm, tapering, obtuse, minutely hispid processes; fruiting perianths numerous, proximal free region yellow, markedly fleshy, firm, with a thickened stalk, remaining attached to wall and core; 'seeds' (separated horny endocarps enclosed by sub-gelatinous exocarps 1 mm thick) oblong-ellipsoid, 30 x 15-20 mm. Jackfruit is one of the most popular fruits in south India. In Uttar Pradesh the eastern districts of Gorakhpur and Deoria are best suited for its cultivation. Eupatorium: It is coarse, often straggling shrub, bearing exceedingly small, numerous, fragrant flowers and an abundance of seeds which are easily dispersed by wind. It is an obnoxious weed in the sub-Himalayan plains and foot- hills, covering extensive areas in Assam and Bengal and interfering with the natural regeneration of timber trees in plantations. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 480 Use of pummelo {Citrus grandis) and siam weed for hispa control in paddy Volume 2, page 117 Pummelo and siam weed Refer to ITK Code No. 474 Contents 1TK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Name in Indian languages 702 Herbal pesticides for control of insect-pests in wheat and rice crop Volume 2, page 117 Vitex, asafoetida Vitex: Assamese: pasutia, aggla-chita; Bengali: nisinda, samalu, nirgundi; Gujarati: nagoda, nagaol; Hindi: sambhalu, shambalu, shivari, nisinda; Marathi: nirgundi, nisind, nigudi; Oriya: beyguna, begundia, mirgundi; Punjabi: banna, marwan, shwari; Tamil: vellainocohi, nirkkundi, venmochi; Telugu: vaavili, tellavaaviti. Asafoetida: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, Kannada & Marathi: Hing; Dogri: Yang; Malayalam & Tamil: Perungayam; Oriya: Hengu; Sanskrit: Balhika, hingu; Telugu: Inguva, ingumo. English name Botanical name Active ingredients Vitex: Vitex Asafoetida: Asafoetida Vitex: Vitex negundo Linn. Asafoetida: Ferula asafoetida Linn. Vitex: A decoction of leaves, with the addition of long pepper, is given in catarrh fever, with heaviness of the head and dullness of hearing.