 As usual, during this year also, Rajbhasha week/fortnight/month was organized at Council’s Headquarters and its institutes. At Council headquarters, various Rajbhasha Competitions were conducted during “Hindi Pakhwara”. “Hindi Pakhwara” was organized at Council’s Headquarters from 14 September 2023. On this occasion, the inspiring messages of Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare were issued. The Director General, ICAR also issued an appeal thereby urging all officers/employees to do their maximum official work in Hindi. Under the Cash Award Scheme of Official Language being implemented at the ICAR Headquarters, 10 personnel were given cash awards for doing their maximum work in Hindi during 2022-23. In accordance with the instructions/orders of Department of Official Language, Ministry of Home Affairs, various Institutes were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed during the inspection. This also includes inspection of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language. Besides, all materials to be presented in the Parliament, works related to Annual Plan, Demand for Grants, Governing Body, Standing finance committee, Parliamentary Committee of Ministry of Agriculture, ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 197 IP, ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT (ICAR) highlighted the significant milestones achieved in the Green, White, Blue, Yellow, Golden, Silver, Brown, and Grey Revolutions. These revolutions have collectively transformed Indian agriculture, leading to a remarkable increase in production since 1970 within the same net sown area. The resilience of food production over the years was emphasized, showcasing the sector’s ability to adapt and thrive. Dr. Pathak stressed the need for reorienting the National Agricultural Research and Extension System (NARES). Dr. Pathak emphasized the necessity of rightsizing ICAR to enhance efficiency. He proposed the “7Cs” approach, which includes Consortia research, Collaborative research, Contract research, Consultancy research, Commercialization, Costing Academics, and Constructing research facilities. Additionally, the potential of Public-Private Partnerships (PPP) was highlighted as a means of generating resources for the organization. The Regional Committee Meetings held once every two years, provide an ideal platform for reviewing the status of agricultural research, education and extension in the mandated states and union territories. The Committee provides a forum for liaison and coordination among the institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and State Departments of Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries.