 The banana industry produces a large volume of waste which is neglected and left to decompose in an uncontrolled way. Hence the application of valorisation would save hindrances to the industrial development. B anana is commercially fourth important global food commodity after paddy, wheat and milk in terms of gross value of production and great socio-economic significance. It is an herbaceous, monocarpic plant belongs to the family Musaceae which originated from the tropical region of South-East Asia. India is also considered as one of the centre of origin. Banana is one of the oldest crop of fruits which was earlier mentioned in the epics of Ramayana in 2020 BC and Kautilya’s Arthashastra in 300- 400 BC. It is the cheapest, plentiful nutritive fruit having g r e a t e c o n o m i c significance in India and many research findings showed as one of the man’s first food. It is one of the most delicious fruit which contributes t o l i v e l i h o o d through production, p r o c e s s i n g a n d marketing. It is deeply interwoven with the Indian cultural heritage that its leaves, pseudostem and fruits are considered very auspicious in all celebrations of Prospects the festivals. Banana ranks first in terms of production and productivity among all fruit crops and covers 12% of the total area under fruits which contributes nearly one third of total production. It can be grown all over India is varied climatic regions. In India, about 7.1 lakh ha area is under banana crop with the total fruit production of 26.2 million MT contributing 14.7% of global the technological development in banana cultivation, its productivity is also showing rising trend. Apart from fruit, banana crop also generate huge quantity of biomass in the form o f p s e u d o s t e m , l e a v e s , s u ck e r s , etc. For disposing purpose, farmers spending ~ 8,000 to 10,000/ha used as dumping on field bunds and burning, disposing in natural drains which causing e n v i r o n m e n t a l problems. Hence the application of valorisation of waste would save hindrances to the industrial development. Parts of banana plant Indian Horticulture 28 Valorisation of plant waste The concept of waste valorisation has been precisely defined as the process of converting waste materials into useful products. Waste valorisation relies on the assumption that even after efficient intended use, the waste still contains untapped sources that can be converted into other useful forms. Apart from the development of technologies, waste valorisation has several advantages like, reduction of volume of produce, recovery of more space and mainly amelioration of environmental pollution. After the harvesting operation of banana, the pseudostem is cut near to the ground which ranging from 60-80 t/ ha. Hence the application of valorisation would save hindrances to the industrial development.