 Results obtained during 2019, using Mid-infrared (MIR) technology further confirmed good prediction results for six soil properties viz. pH, Electrical Conductivity (EC), Organic Carbon (OC), Sand, Silt and Clay in Alfisol. These results were also confirmed by the Soil Physics Laboratory, IARI, New Delhi. A fresh set of 448 samples of Inceptisols collected from different locations in the Indo-Gangetic plain were analysed for pH, EC, and Av-P, by both the MIR and wet chemistry methods. IISS-ICRAF team is working to develop/ refine the prediction models for Inceptisols. The progress of work on MIR was reviewed on 17th December 2019 at ICAR-IISS, Bhopal in the presence of scientists from ICAR-IISS, Bhopal; IARI New Delhi; and ICRAF (New Delhi and Nairobi). Based on the 4 years’ Spectroscopy data obtained by IISS-ICRAF & its reconfirmation at IARI, MIR spectroscopy is ready for large scale use to effectively analyse pH, Soil Organic Carbon, EC, Sand, Silt, Clay, and (indirectly) nitrogen in Alfisol of India which covers 20 % of the geographical area of the country. MIR technology can also be used to analyse Soil Organic Carbon and pH in Inceptisols. Work to standardize the models for other soil type will continue in 2020. World Agroforestry (ICRAF) ADG (Soil & Water Management), ICAR HQ reviewed the progress of work through ICAR-IISS-ICRAF collaborative project on use of Infrared Spectroscopy in Soil Health Assessment at ICAR-IISS, Bhopal on 29 May 2019. Joint Progress Monitoring of the Collaborative Project on “Assessment of important soil properties of India using Mid-Infrared Spectroscopy” at ICAR-IISS, Bhopal on 17 December 2019. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 70 Efforts to develop small-smart-mobile equipment to measure soil health ICRAF with partners has developed a prototype of handheld-portable device for on the spot analysis of soil properties. The instrument is in advanced stage of development, and the first prototype is expected to be available for testing in India during 2020. ICAR-IISS and ICRAF teams agreed to do a pilot testing when the equipment is available during 2020. Publication of guidelines for production of quality planting material of Agroforestry species, and to designate a certification agency for the quality planting material for agroforestry species Lack of availability of quality planting material (QPM); and absence of a guideline to produce and certify QPM production are major prohibitive factors for expansion of agroforestry / Trees outside Forest (TOF). Therefore, it was agreed that ICAR- ICRAF will jointly develop a QPM guidelines in collaboration with relevant stakeholders. The guideline was completed during 2018-2019, and after approval of the draft during ICAR-CGIAR meeting, it has been jointly published by ICAR- ICRAF. One hundred copies of the book were circulated to various ICAR institutions, SAUs, Government Ministries, Departments, and the line departments of the state Governments.