 access to proprietary technology, C. farm mechanization for higher input use efficiency D. technology for agro-processing. The technologies can contribute to doubling the farmers’ income primarily by enhancing the productivity of the system through enhanced production, reduced cost of cultivation and effective communication about market intelligence. There is also a need to prioritize crops which are likely to experience a technical change similar to that observed in maize (single cross hybrid), cotton (Bt for bollworm resistance) and hybrids in vegetables and flowers and implementation of programs in ‘mission mode.’ Along with such technological innovations, last mile delivery of technology, skill development and information flow to farmers should be strengthened. The recent research output from universities and ICAR institutes have clearly revealed the potential of improved crop varieties and natural resource management technologies for enhancing the productivity of crops, livestock and fisheries in addition to allied sectors such as sericulture. In addition, a lot of agro chemicals including the growth promoters are being commercialized in the Indian market. Farmers are in dilemma while using chemical and organic fertilizers; they don’t know how to do budget farming. There is poor coordination between 341 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 agriculture universities and farmers and it is increasingly observed that technologies emerging from research are not reaching farmers who need to be trained in using that technology and it is necessary to increase their capacity to make right choice at right time while making decision on purchase of inputs particularly for high tech agriculture. General observations Technology is not limiting factor; remuneration is the concern hence action plan is needed including all the sectors , small farmers and land less labours; it is necessary to specify site specific modules for doubling the income of farmers All of us know the problem and some solutions already exist but it is not clear who has to reach them to the farmer and hence it is necessary to focus on what is needed for poor farmers and how to achieve in next five years so that it can help to double the farmers’ income. This should focus on comprehensive package which is needed to prioritize action plan: Short term and medium term goals for accomplishing the task; Action plan should include where to grow? What to grow? When to grow? Some of the options are risk mitigation with respect to both weather and market: Promotion of water conservation and rain water harvesting for soil moisture security; watershed planning promotion of group farming, promotion of agri.