 This mixture is fed to the animals twice a day, suffering from diarrhoea. Keywords: diarrhoea, jamun, bhang, ajwain Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2627 Use of aonla fruits and black salt to control blood dysentery of animals Farmers use a mixture made from aonla fruits and black salt to control blood dysentery in animals. About 70-80 % problem can be controlled by this practice. About 1 kg fruit of aonla is taken and pulp is separated and mixed with 35-40 g black salt. Mixture is added in fresh water and fed to the animal by bamboo stick. This is an age old practice with the Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  farmers of Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: aonla, black salt, blood dysentery 2553 Use of it-sit weed plant for curing tilli (jaundice) in animals Tilli (jaundice) is a harmful disease in animals. Stems of it-sit (Boerhavia diffusa) plant, about 2 to 3 inches long along with its leaves is chaffed and fed to the animals with flour till the animal is cured. It-sit is a wild plant usually available in the wastelands in the kharif season. This traditional practice is popularly used by the farmers in Jarafpain area of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: it-sit weed, tilli Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2639 Use of decoction made from arjun bark and roots of amaltas for treatment of pneumonia in animals When an animal suffers from pneumonia, the following mixture is used for its cure. About 100 g bark of arjun (Terminela arjuna) and 100 g fruits of amaltas (Casia fistula L.) are boiled with 1litre water until it remains 500 ml. This decoction is given orally to the animal by bamboo stick, thrice a day. The practice is continued for 3-4 days for complete recovery. It is practised in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: arjun, amaltas, pneumonia Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2616 Use of hot sickle to get rid of pneumonia Sometimes cattles are affected by the attack of pneumonia and become restlesss and lethargic. The farmers of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh treat the infected animals with hot sickle (drati). Hot drati is touched to the chest of the infected animal.