 Resources enhance the ability to choose and agencies facilitate the implementation of the choices to achieve the goal through independent and/or interdependent decision-making. Independent decision-making is a prerequisite as well as an outcome of women empowerment. Literature also supports the idea that among agrarian societies, ownership of land can enhance the welfare of women and thus empower them [2,9,19,30,33,48]. In fact, the study by Roy and Tisdell [37] considers the ownership of land by women as one of the indicators of women empowerment. Increased empowerment of the women in households in the form of active and effective decision-making can benefit the agrarian household in the form of improved agricultural produce [13,15,50] and improved intra-household nutrition distribution [9,14,16,18,34,41,42]. Access to resources and assets by women in the households improves the relative strength of their bargaining power in the households. Land is the major resource in most of agrarian households across the globe, more specif­ ically in South Asia. Therefore, land ownership can ensure economic security and improve their decision-making power with respect to pro­ duction and resource allocation. Literature has also supported that improved decision-making in resource allocation by women not only enhances their welfare, but it also improves the quality of life of agrarian households [9,30,33]. On the other hand, joint decision-making (including both women and men) is also gaining significant impor­ tance in literature in empowering women [21,39]. A study by Mala­ bayabas et al. [27] has found that joint decision-making increases productivity and food security in Eastern India. However, without undermining the importance of land ownership to improve women empowerment, studies have also pointed out that policies to ensure land ownership only are never good enough to even reduce (let alone erad­ icate) the gender discrimination (against women) in agriculture [51]. Given the fact that Land is the key source of employment, income, and livelihood in the rural households of many developing economies (more so in South Asia), the agrarian decision is crucial to the benefit of the agricultural households. Further, the presumption that only the owner of the land makes the decision about the land and/or agricultural activities is also a myth [45]. The statutory framework across the world has provisions to protect the interest of women in the form of land rights and ownership. Un­ fortunately, the customary beliefs are so deep-rooted in many devel­ oping countries like the countries of South Asia that many a times discriminatory and oppressive ideas of the self-proclaimed guardians of the society have become the convention.