) ●Planning and experimentation (technical programme like year, season, title, objectives, location, replications, plot size, technological options, arrangement of seeds/planting materials/technology observations to be recorded, methodology etc.) ●Results and discussion (performance of technology, database and analysis, reports and documentation etc) ●Follow up action (group meetings, training, field days, publications, radio talks, TV talks etc) ●Feedback (farmers perception about the technological attributes like problem solving, understandability, practicability, cost effectiveness, profitability, sustainability, compatibility, accessibility, satisfaction etc) ●Conclusion (salient recommendations) Points to be observed while recording data ●Data in respect of all field trials including failed trials should be reported. Data are to be collected in collaboration with the participating farmers. ●If the yield of any particular plot or a group of plots was affected due any problem, reasons for the same should be recorded. ●Similarly extent of damage due to abnormal conditions like hailstorm, drought, flood etc. during crop season, should also be recorded very carefully and interpreted appropriately. Data sheet: Data sheet would vary based on the topic and discipline of study. However, the finding of the trials should reflect on the following indicators so that compatibility of the assessed/ refined technologies to the farming situations can be ascertained and acceptable to the participating farmers: ●Stability in production/productivity ●Use of internal resources, rather than purchased inputs ●Economic viability ●Replicability of the refined technologies in similar farming situation ●Use of appropriate statistical tools to measure the finding Feedback: Farmers’ reaction on the performance of technologies may be recorded on (i) socio- cultural compatibility, (ii) compatibility with existing farming systems, (iii) divisibility of technology, (iv) simplicity/complexity, (v) compatibility with internal resources of the households, (vi) easy availability of related inputs/materials, (vii) element of risk involved and (viii) viability. These observations will help in assessing the acceptability of the technologies by the farming community. 118 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Reporting format of OFT Crop/ Farming Problem Title No. of Technology Parameters Data Results Feedback Any Justification enterprise situation definition of trials Assessed of on assessment from refinement for OFT assessment the the done refinement parameter farmer 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 (Format Contd.) Technology Assessed/Refined *Production per unit Net Return (Profit) in ` /unit BC Ratio 13 14 15 16 Technology option 1 (Farmer’s practice) Technology option 2 Technology option 3 *Field crops – kg/ha, * for horticultural crops -= kg/t/ha, * milk and meat – litres or kg/animal, * for mushroom and vermi compost kg/unit area.