 Among the materials tested biocrete (mixture of cement, sand and natural fibre including bamboo frames) and cattle manure were found effective in controlling lateral seepage in ponds. Identification of dietary cholesterol level in mud crab To determine the dietary requirement of cholesterol for the juvenile of mud crab Scylla tranquebarica, feeding trials with six purified diets containing 0 to 1.4% cholesterol levels were conducted. The results indicated that juveniles crabs fed with 0.5% cholesterol diet gained highest weight with good moulting frequency and maintained natural colouration. Diet for sea bass A compounded diet with indigenous feed ingredients like soybean meal, squid meal, shrimp meal, trash fish and cereal flour was formulated for larva of sea bass. The seabass fry were successfully weaned on the formulated diet for 15 days. The performance of the formulated diet in terms of growth and survival was quiet high. Shrimp disease To tackle shrimp disease problems, an immunostimulant has been developed for health management. A field trial with a Vibrio whole cell immunostimulant has been conducted with P. monodon in farmers fields in Tamil Nadu and West Bengal. The trial was successful and the shrimp exhibited better growth and the production was significantly high in immunostimulated pond as compared to control ponds. A Reverse Transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction (RT-PCR) technique was perfected for detection of yellow head virus which causes the devastating yellow head disease, in farmed shrimp. MARICULTURE Broodstock development, breeding and larval rearing of damselfish Chrysiptera unimaculata and grouper Epinephelus malabaricus was achieved in captivity. Juveniles of Sepia pharaonis were reared up to 10 mm size in captivity. FISH HARVEST AND PROCESSING TECHNOLOGY An improved design of a FRP boat which has light weight, strength and durability for backwater and coastal fishing was developed. Similarly a design was developed of a sail system for use on-board medium class fishing vessels for reducing fuel consumption during free running mode. Two canoes were constructed for marine and backwater fishing from rubber wood. Farm reared brood fish of Rainbow trout at Chirapani Kit for detection of White Spot Virus in Shrimps FISH PRODUCTION AND PROCESSING 133 Technology for the production of ready-to-consume fried mussel in flexible retortable pouch with shelf life of more than a year at room temperature was developed. The technology for production of battered and breaded balls from small squids as raw material which otherwise not suitable for export was standardized. Chitin and chitosan incorporated isinglass films were found very effective in maxillofacial surgery. FISH GENETICS RESOURCES Polymorphic microsatellite loci were identified from nine prioritized species through cross species amplification of primers obtained through bioinformatic tools.