 Hill and Mountain Agro-ecosystem l In the Mussoori hills, the soil loss of 4,000 tonnes/ha in land slide-affected area of 7,200 m2 became negligible when the area was treated with coir geo- textile and gabion structures. l A rearing technology developed for Angora rabbit helped the local farmers to generate an additional annual income of Rs 1,500–2,000 with one pair of broiler rabbit. l In the Khasi hills of Meghalaya, introduction of Indo-American hybrid tomato variety increased the production 2 times. l About 200 genotypes of saffron have been collected from Kashmir and quality-planting material is being produced. MISSION MODE (MM) RESEARCH About 800 Centres/Nodal points are in place for implementing 42 Mission Mode programmes. Salient achievements are as follows: l Under Jai Vigyan National Science and Technology Mission on Conservation of Agro-biodiversity, besides collection, conservation and documentation of huge germplasm, a few trait-specific germplasm like scented types in rice, salinity-tolerant types in wheat, high sweet type in matira, powdery mildew-tolerant ber and bael were collected. Genetic characterization of livestock species/breeds including poultry has helped in conserving high- value breeds and other breeds, which are in danger of extinction. Eight new species of fishes have been reported for the first time. l In different crops, 28 hybrids (rice 3, maize 9, sunflower 5, pearl millet 3, castor 2, cotton 5, sorghum 1) with improved quality, high yield and disease resistance have been developed and released. In vegetable crops 39 hybrids having multiple-disease resistance (tomato 22, brinjal 10 and chilli 7) have also been developed. l Protected cultivation of vegetables and flowers has improved the yield by 10% and proved very effective to protect against insects, pests and mites. l IPM modules for cotton, pigeonpea, chickpea, groundnut, cabbage, tomato, apple and mango were validated. Production of cabbage, tomato and chickpea using IPM and without pesticidal sprays is a success story. Collection of saffron. About 200 genotypes of saffron could be collected from Kashmir DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 198 l A novel process of producing neem oil micro-emulsion (an environment friendly pesticide) without employing a cosurfactant and alcohol has been developed, and filed for patent. l Diagnostic kits for the peste des petits ruminants (PPR) virus disease of small ruminants have been developed. Linkages were also developed with industries for commercialization. l A technology has been developed for packing ready-to-eat fish preparations in retortable pouches. The self-life of the packaged products is one year. TEAM OF EXCELLENCE (TOE) MODE l A user-friendly crop-modelling framework, Info Crop, has been developed and is being evaluated for potato, soybean, cotton, maize, sorghum, mustard, groundnut and sugarcane.