in 33 2002‐2007 parameters, viz soil pH, EC, OC, N, P and K slightly declined under control over the initial status under different treatments, whereas P and K contents of soil drastically reduced under all treatments over their parental status but rate of reduction of these nutrients were less, where these nutrients were less, where these nutrients were applied continuously at their maximum rates. At Ranchi in maize‐wheat crop sequence, there was decline in productivity of maize and wheat with continuous ertilization and cropping due to decrease in soil pII from its initial value. Further, 80 kg N/ha gave significantly more maize yield than higher and lower doses of nitrogen in maize. Increasing doses of P and K gave higher yield of maize than lower levels, whereas in wheat, effect of N and K was not significant. Identification of need based cropping system for different agro‐ecosystems: • Under Arid ecosystem at S.K.Nagar, maximum agro‐energy (K Cal) was recorded in clusterbean‐wheat‐sorghum (F) crop sequence with maximum net returns. At Siruguppa, rice‐tomato gave maximum B:C ratio to the tune of 3.85. In semi‐arid ecosystem, the highest groundnut equivalent yield was recorded with pre sowing groundnut‐onion‐ greengram sequence followed by soybean‐onion‐groundnut. At Indore, soybean‐potato‐ wheat sequence led to register the highest net return with B:C ratio of 2.87. In sub‐humid ecosystem, the experiment conducted at Pantnagar revealed highest net return under direct seeded rice‐vegetable‐pea summer‐rice. At Jabalpur, green manuring‐rice‐wheat cv. Kanchan fetched maximum net return with the highest B:C ratio of 2.25. However, the production efficiency was maximum in rice‐wheat cv. Kanchan sequence. Under humid ecosystem, at R.S.Pura, rice‐cauliflower‐french bean sequence was most profitable with B:C of 2.76 among all short duration rice based crop sequence. In case of medium duration rice based crop sequence, rice –green peas maize (cobs) system was identified to be distinctly better with the highest rice equivalent yield. In case of long duration rice based crop sequence, rice radish‐lady’s finger gave maximum rice equivalent yield. Under coastal ecosystem at Bhubaneswar center, rice‐maize‐greengram recorded the highest rice equivalent yield with B:C ratio to be 2.13. At Chiplima, rice‐radish‐greengram fetched maximum net return with the highest B:C ratio of 2.19. At Navsari, paddy‐fenugreek (green)‐ okra(Veg) sequence recorded the highest paddy equivalent yield followed by paddy‐onion‐ cowpea(veg.). Characterization of bio‐physical and socio‐economic constraints in various agro‐eco zones: • Site characterization of the zone based on secondary data was carried‐out. Besides, through production constraint analysis, identified the bio‐physical and socio‐economic factors for the constraints faced by the farmers.