 To attract talent in agriculture we have to offer free education from routine set-up and allow reforms in SAUs in the new education policy and also develop independent long-term linkages with foreign institutes. The ICAR-SAU’s must shed away rigid rules and bureaucratic environment— exchange teaching and learning materials with SAUs and promote e-learning. Key takeaways Shift in focus is required on polices from subsidies to investment in the R&D. Funds allotments have to be need-based. 121 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship ENHANCING QUALITY AND RELEVANCE OF AGRICULTURE EDUCATION K.K. Aggarwal Agricultural education is one of the most user connected professional education, after medical education. Agricultural education has come formally into professional education track much later than the medical and the engineering education. But it has developed fast as the country is agriculture-based — we have had ‘Green’ and ‘White’ revolutions. Earlier to these, we used to have shortage of grains and had long queues for getting milk but now we have surplus food grains and milk. The national ranking list of the universities shows that the first 7-8 universities out of 10 are technical universities. This happened in India as the technical universities were better connected with servicing sectors, with high productivity. Service sector got a boost and it also led to the growth of engineering/technical sector and per capita income also increased in the service sector but was limited to a few people. When service sector is compared to agriculture, it shows that only 5 per cent boost or improvement in agriculture can give employment to a greater number of people. For enhanced quality of agricultural education, universities were required with specialization and thus a lot Prof. K.K. Aggarwal is the Chairman of the National Board of Accreditation. He has been widely consulted by the industry and his most-salient contribution is in the Reliability Analysis for the PSLV (Polar Satellite Launch Vehicle). 122 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series of departments with specific areas were created. Lately, the education has become more and more specialized, but students are not aware of their surroundings. They may have high Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) but their knowledge is limited to a subject only. This has created a gap among different disciplines. To fill the gap in disciplines we need to establish multidisciplinary universities. Now, with the new education policy (NEP,) it is possible to reduce this gap. Earlier, if someone wanted to join medical college, one needed to study PCB and if wanted to become an engineer, one was to study PCM. In the university system, there are some landmark changes with the new policy, now they can study inter-disciplinary courses. There will not be a rigid demarcation for a degree.