 Introduction Gandhiji’s profound love for the land and respect for the toiling rural people made him believe that India lives in its villages. He dreamt of self-sufficient and self-reliant villages and visualized that agricultural sector and household cottage industries may eradicate rural poverty and unemployment. Gandhi ji stressed upon the growth of agriculture based rural industries like khadi, handlooms, sericulture and handicrafts. As rural industries could operate successfully on family labour with less amount of capital and external inputs, the demand and supply could be addressed locally. Gandhi’s political movements were aligned with social reforms. Mahatma would often turn to thoughts of village reconstruction to address unemployment and starvation in rural India (Bhuimali 2004). The principle of Gandhian philosophy is regional self-sufficiency, or Gram Swaraj. He realised that to achieve Gram Swaraj, revival of village industries was absolutely essential. In 1934, the All-India Village Industries Association (AIVIA) was established for rural industrialisation. 2. Gram Swaraj Mahatma Gandhi’s concept of Gram Swaraj is rooted in his idea of self-reliance. The means of production of the basic necessities must be available locally. He supported the idea of decentralisation of production and emphasised on the idea of autonomous and self-contained villages through Panchayats having executive, legislative and judicial powers. Gandhian philosophy advocated a labour-intensive policy against a capital-intensive one with decentralised system of planning, production and decision-making. The Gandhian philosophy highlights ownership, co-operation, equality, self-discipline, simplicity and limited wants. He believed in mobilizing people to produce locally to empower them and provide gainful employment to large section of society living in villages. The Dandi March of Gandhi in 1930 was phenomenal for signalling the importance of community participation in addressing local needs. 160 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 3. Sevagram experiment This programme started under the guidance of Mahatma Gandhi in 1933 though its origin can be traced back to the 1920s with the establishment of the All India Spinners’ Association. Self-contained and self-sufficient village life was the dream of Gandhiji. He was aware of the problems of rural India and wanted to solve these problems with the help of local resources. He advocated that upliftment of the common man is upliftment of the country and believed that cottage industries can salvage the rural economy. The objectives of the Sevagram experiment were to provide services to the under-privileged sections of the society, promote decentralized production, equal distribution of wealth and provide basic education to people. Self-sufficiency of Indian villages could be achieved by eradicating middlemen and giving remunerative price to the farmers for their produce (Mondal 2013).