3390/agriculture15040435 Article Characterization of Phytophthora and Pythium Species Associated with Root Rot of Olive Trees in Morocco Ikram Legriﬁ 1,2, Abderrahim Lazraq 2, Jamila Al Figuigui 2, Zineb Belabess 3, Moussa El Jarroudi 4 and Rachid Lahlali 1,* 1 Phytopathology Unit, Department of Plant Protection, Ecole Nationale d’Agriculture de Meknès, Km 10, Rte Haj Kaddour, BP S/40, Meknes 50001, Morocco; ikram.legriﬁ@usmba.ac.ma 2 Laboratory of Functional Ecology and Environmental Engineering, Sidi Mohamed Ben Abdellah University, Route d’Imouzzer, P.O. Box 2202, Fez 30000, Morocco; abderrahim.lazraq@usmba.ac.ma (A.L.); j.alﬁguigui@yahoo.fr (J.A.F.) 3 Plant Protection Laboratory, Regional Center of Agricultural Research of Meknes, National Institute of Agricultural Research, Km 13, Rte Haj Kaddour, BP 578, Meknes 50001, Morocco; zineb.belabess@inra.ma 4 Department of Sciences and Environmental Management, University of Liege, 6700 Arlon, Belgium; meljarroudi@uliege.be * Correspondence: rlahlali@enameknes.ac.ma Abstract: The olive tree is one of the most important fruit crops grown in Morocco, yet extensive decline associated with the root rot of this crop has been observed in many re- gions. This study aimed to identify and characterize the oomycetes associated with root rot disease in olive trees. During the 2021 and 2022 growing seasons, symptomatic root tissues and soil samples were collected for isolation. Based on morphological traits and the sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region of rDNA, 10 oomycete spe- cies were identiﬁed, belonging to the Phytophthora and Pythium sensu lato (s.l.) genera. Seven species were assigned to Phytophthora, namely, P. palmivora, P. plurivora, P. acerina, P. oleae, P. cactorum, P. gonapodyides, and P. megasperma. The Pythium s.l. genus was repre- sented by three species, including P. schmitthenneri, P. aphanidermatum, and P. irregulare. A pathogenicity assay was conducted by soil infestation to evaluate the eﬀect of these path- ogens on one-year-old olive saplings (var. Picholine Marocaine). Results revealed that all 10 species were pathogenic to olive saplings. Inoculated saplings exhibited symptoms, such as root rot, vascular discoloration, and wilting. The pathogens were successfully re- isolated from necrotic roots, thereby fulﬁlling Koch’s postulates. These ﬁndings highlight the complex etiology of root rot disease in olive trees, as multiple species can induce sim- ilar symptoms. This study represents the ﬁrst detailed report of Phytophthora and Pythium s.l. species associated with olive root rot disease in Morocco. Keywords: Olea europaea; oomycetes; root rot; Phytophthora spp.; Pythium s.l. spp.; ITS se- quencing; pathogenicity 1. Introduction The olive tree (Olea europaea L.) is one of the oldest domesticated fruit crops and a key component of Mediterranean agroecosystems [1].