, called ‘Napssié’ also employed for preparing similar dish by Bayam people in Cameroon. The underground tubers of terrestrial orchids [mainly Orchis mascula (early purple orchid)] are ground to a powder and used for cooking, such as in the polysaccharide-rich hot beverage ‘Salep’ or in the Turkish frozen treat ‘Dondurma’. The name salep has been claimed to come from the Arabic expression ‘asyu al-tha‘lab’, ‘fox testicles’, but it appears more likely the name comes directly from the Arabic name ‘sa lab’. The similarity in appearance to testes naturally accounts for salep being considered an aphrodisiac. To prepare salep, tubers are treated with water, milk or ayran (a yoghurt- based drink) to make it enzymatically inactive followed by drying and pounding them into powder. It could be also used as ice cream called ‘mara dondurma’. At least 35 species of orchids are used to make salep, including species from the genera Anacamptis Rich., Dactylorhiza Neck. Ex Nevski, Himantoglossum Spreng., Ophrys L., Serapias L. and SteveniellaSchltr. Some saprophytic orchid species of the group Gastrodia produce potato-like tubers and are consumed as food by native people in Australia and can be successfully cultivated, notably Gastrodia sesamoides. Wild stands of these plants can still be found in the same areas as early aboriginal settlements, such as Ku-ring-gai Chase National Park in Australia. Aboriginal people located the plants in habitat by observing where bandicoots had scratched in search of the tubers after detecting the plants underground by scent. The dried, aromatic leaves of Jumellea fragrans and J. Rossii Senghas are used to flavour rum (trades as Faham) on Reunion Island and Mauritius. Leaves are also used for the production of ‘Bourbon tea’ (thé de Bourbon) or ‘Madagascan tea’ (thé de Madagascar). Apart from this, in various parts of the world, certain orchids are also used for food or food supplements. In Malaysia, the leaves of one species of Anoectochilus are sold as a vegetable, and the leaves of Dendrobium salaccense are cooked as a seasoning with rice. In certain parts of the Asian tropics, the tubers of some species of Gastrodia are eaten like potatoes. Throughout the world, only few species of orchids are used as a glue substitute. In most cases, the glue is derived from the pseudobulbs. As for example, the mucilage extracted from pseudo-bulbs of Prosthechea cochleata (commonly known as ‘Black Orchid’), is used as glue for repairing wooden objects, ‘Tzauhtli’ is a type of glue extracted from the pseudo-bulb of Laelia autmnalis, an epiphytic orchid used as adhesive for feather mosaics. Novel fragrance genes of orchids Orchids are devoid of any fragrance but still they are admired by the consumers owing to their unusual floral structure. But definitely the floral scent will be a supplemental component to enhance consumers’ preference and attract pollinators (like bees, wasps, humming birds etc.).