 NADRESv2, a dynamic geographic information and remote sensing-enabled expert system maintained by ICAR-NIVEDI was updated in the NADRES database, and a total of 5,655 predictions for major livestock diseases were communicated to State Animal Husbandry Departments and Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying (DAHD), GoI, in the form of risk maps, bulletins, and post-prediction maps for necessary preparedness. Nation-wide sampling plans for sero-surveillance and sero-monitoring of foot and mouth disease (FMD), brucellosis, Peste des Petits Ruminants (PPR) and classical swine fever (CSF) for each state/ UTs of the country were formulated and provided to DAHD, GoI, for strengthening the surveillance system. Screening of serum samples (32,257) for important livestock diseases from different animal species submitted to various NADEN units and State Animal Husbandry Departments was carried out. The sero- diagnostic services were provided for infectious bovine rhinotracheitis (IBR), trypanosomiasis and pasteurellosis with 28.9%, 49% and 4.5% positivity, respectively in ruminants. Brucella post-vaccination sero-monitoring is one of the major activities to evaluate the impact of the control program. Towards this, a total of 14,611 sera collected from different states were screened, of which, 64.45% were positive for anti-brucella antibodies. Under FMD sero-surveillance, 98,185 bovine serum samples from around the country were analyzed and an overall sero-positivity in 16.6% of the tested samples was reported. The state FMD centers were provided with three main test kits (3AB3 indirect DIVA ELISA for 1,75,583 samples, Solid Phase Competitive ELISA (SPCE) for 1,56,778 samples, and Sandwich ELISA for 3893 samples. Clinical samples (2824) were analyzed for serotype identification in 378 FMD outbreaks. During 2021, all three FMD virus serotypes were documented, with serotype O leading the outbreak scenario followed by serotype A. Overall, the disease incidences have increased compared to previous year. A total of 113 FMD virus isolates (102 O, 10 A and 1 Asia 1) revived in BHK- 21 cell system were added to the National Repository of FMD Virus maintained at International Centre for FMD, Bhubaneswar and Mukteswar Laboratory.