 M ODERN agriculture has grappled with a myriad of challenges, particularly in developing regions where traditional practices often fall short in terms of efficiency and sustainability, and where technological advancements have not been adequately matched by resources and knowledge. To tackle these issues, the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) was initiated by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) in 2016 to ‘enrich knowledge’ and ‘integrate technology’ at the farm level by focusing on the farmers’ Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology (FIRST). Over the years, FFP has bridged the gap between scientists and farmers, which has resulted in increasing farmers' incomes in India. This initiative has empowered farmers by equipping them with the technical know-how necessary for integrated crop management practices, thereby reviving Indian agriculture. The results of programme interventions have been remarkable. Farmers reported that the FFP has not only led to increased crop diversity but has also contributed to improved food security and economic stability of their households. Farmers, who once faced the dire consequences of underutilized land, are now continuously cultivating crops, vegetation, besides animal husbandry in all seasons. This transformation exemplifies the positive impact agricultural education and access to resources can have on rural livelihoods. The strategies employed not only improved the farmers' managerial skills but also fostered a collaborative relationship between farmers and scientists. This issue has been brought out specially to showcase the successful intervention made by all the FFP partner institutes/ universities during these eight-years across the country. The Farmer FIRST Programme is a testament to the power of innovation and collaboration in agriculture. By focusing on empowering farmers with the necessary skills and resources, it has effectively revitalized previously neglected lands, turning challenges into opportunities. As more farmers embrace these modern practices, the broader implications for agricultural sustainability and economic growth in the participating villages and neighbourhoods are promising. These successful interventions reinforce the importance of integrating scientific research with local knowledge, paving the way for a more resilient and productive agricultural sector. As we look ahead, it is crucial to sustain this momentum, ensuring that all stakeholders, including policymakers, planners, and farmers, continue to engage with and benefit from the transformative power of initiatives like the Farmer FIRST Programme. E DITORIAL Transformative impact of the Farmer FIRST Programme (R R Burman) ADG (Agri. Extn.) Indian Farming 4 November 2024 Revival of fallow lands after wheat harvest Crop diversification through greengram and blackgram cultivation Pijush Kanti Mukherjee*, R. P. Dubey, Jitendra Kumar Dubey, V. K. Choudhary, C. R. Chethan, Yogita Gharde, P. K.