 Sheep Cape Merino, an exotic fine wool breed, was crossed with local breeds and 4000-5000 crossbred sheep were produced around Pune for superior quality wool production (National Commission on Agriculture, 1976). Nilgiri, a fine wool breed of sheep was evolved in the Nilgiri Hills of Tamil Nadu. Crossbreeding of indigenous sheep with Romney Marsh was undertaken both in plains and hilly areas. Hisardale, a fine wool breed with about 75% exotic inheritance, was evolved by crossing of Bikaneri ewes with Merino rams at Government Livestock Farm at Hisar (Haryana Agriculture University, 1983). Kashmir Merino was evolved by crossing Gaddi, Bhakarwal, Rampur Bushair, Poochhi, Kamah and Gurez with Merino. Sheep breeding work under AICRP for fine wool was started in 1971 at CSWRI. The breeds involved were exotic fine-wool breeds- Soviet Merino and Rambouillet, and the indigenous breeds-Gaddi, Nali, Chokla, Patanwadi, Nilgiri and Bonpala. The new strains of sheep were named as Avivastra, Nali-synthetic, Chokla- synthetic, Nilgiri-synthetic, Patanwadi-synthetic and Gaddi-synthetic. Crossbreeding to improve mutton production involved exotic mutton breeds- Dorest and Suffolk and indigenous breeds were Malpura, Sonadi, Muzzaffarnagari, Nellore, Mandya, Deccani and Madras Red. Avimaas (Mutton Synthetic) lambs attained 25 kg body weight at 130 days. Rambouillet was superior to other exotic breeds in crossbreeding experiments. Awassi was crossed with native Malpura sheep at CSWRI, Avikanagar in 1994; the crossbred (AM) exhibited improvement in body weight and feed efficiency. 3.2.1. Avishaan: A prolific sheep developed at ICAR-CSWRI A crossbreeding scheme was started in 1997 to introgress the prolificacy gene FecB from small sized prolific sheep breed ‘Garole’ of Sunderban area of West Bengal into non-prolific large size mutton sheep breed ‘Malpura’ of Rajasthan and Garole x Malpura half-breds were produced with twinning percentage of 50%. The FecB gene carrier Garole x Malpura halfbreds males were backcrossed with Malpura dam to produce the GMM having 25% Garole and 75% Malpura inheritance. Later, in 2008, Patanwadi inheritance was introduced to increase the availability of milk to newly born lambs. In this crossbreeding programme, GMM having FecBB gene was used as sire and Patanwadi as a dam breed to produce triple indigenous breed cross with 12.5% Garole, 37.5% Malpura and 50% Patanwadi inheritance in which FecB gene has been introgressed successfully. The high performing triple breed cross “Avishaan’’ was released by CSWRI on 4th January, 2016. Avishaan exhibited high prolificacy (74.4%), litter size (1.8) and annual lambing Avishaan ewes produced 46% more mutton compared to monotocus Malpura Achievements in Livestock and Poultry Production in Independent India 141 (94.5%). Body weights at 3 and 6 months averaged 16.5 and 27.9 kg, respectively, with post weaning and adult survivability above 98% with FecB gene inheritance. 3.3.