 At the centre, and in between two rollers an idle roller of 64 mm diameter and 1,125 mm length was used for guiding fruits between two rollers. The multi-fruit grader was tested for different fruit and vegetable and its capacity was 605 kg/h. Fruit grader operated by solar and manual energy. VL maize sheller VL multi-fruit-cum-vegetable grader Nutri-smart village: Nutrition sensitive approach was promoted at local level with active participation of women who are mainly responsible for food security of the households in high hill areas. Initial survey showed overall prevalence of malnutrition among women depicted as different grades of CED along with low normal BMI was 36.5%. Women had very low dietary diversity score (3.9) as 69.8% women were found consuming less than five food group in their daily diet. As an intervention under NMHS funded project, 63 nutri-gardens with well-established layout were demonstrated in high hills of Pithoragarh and Uttarkashi district to increase the local availability of Nutri-smart village nutritionally rich food. In order to address the issue of low productivity, high yielding varieties of wheat, finger millet and lentil (major crops of hill region) were introduced in the project area along with the recommended package of practices. Diverse food availability was ensured through family farming, nutri- gardens and homestead production of vegetables, fruits, mushroom, honey, micro-greens, fortified crop varieties etc. at local levels. After the implementation of nutrition sensitive agricultural intervention, dietary diversity score reached to more than 5. As a result of these interventions, there was significant improvement in consumption of food groups like pulses, other vegetables, mushroom, fruits and milk in diet of beneficiaries. Women were organized in Himalayan Self Help Group, Jogat in Uttarkashi district; Poshan Suraksha Self Help Group, Baitholi; and Poshan Vatika Self Help Group, Kande-Kiroli in Pithoragarh district. These groups were formed to enhance feasibility and effectiveness of nutrition focused interventions. This model of nutri-smart village proved that a small nutri- garden of 100 m2 to 200 m2 along with location specific nutrition sensitive agriculture interventions can provide round the year food and nutritional security for a family of 5–6 members in hills. NORTH EAST HIMALAYAS Integrated organic farming system (IOFS) model for sustainable livelihood: An integrated organic farming system (IOFS) model (0.43 ha area) developed at ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam, RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 154 The availability of quality seed of recommended improved vegetable varieties is inadequate in the state. Feasibility and acceptability for large scale seed production at farmer field of newly released varieties are to be tested.