 After successful intake of scion buds on the rootstocks either in nursery raised or in situ established seedlings, the upper portion of the stocks should be removed or pruned so that growth of sprouted scion bud may faster. Lopping In western Rajasthan and adjoining areas of Haryana, the lopping of trees starts from mid-November and continues up to January. The leaves and pods constitute a major source of fodder. The dried leaves of khejri called as loom or long are used as quality fodder for the animals during lean period. There is contrary report about lopping practices. It is reported that if trees are lopped at 3 years intervals, they produce 172-242% more leaf fodder by weight than those recurrently lopped. In general, annual lopping is common practice of khejri by the farmers, though annual lopping is not suggested for sangria production. The tree may be lopped after harvesting of the pods, in order to promote physiological maturity of the shoots for production of sangria next season. These observations must be verified by conducting field experiments. Harvesting The trees of seedlings origin come in bearing after 8-10 years but the vegetatively propagated plants came in fruiting after 3rd year and thus the gestation period reduced markedly. The plants flower during February- March and fruit setting takes place in April-May. Only immature tender pods are used as vegetables, hence stage of harvesting is very essential, which should be done within fortnight of fruit setting in two-three consecutive operations. It is very difficult to assess the yield of khejri growing under natural conditions due to variation in age, site conditions, uncontrolled lopping and other biotic and abiotic interferences. As an estimate, a fully grown Heavy growth of cotton crop under Khejri shed Khejri pods Full mature khejri plant for cutting loom Full bearing of tender pods Intercropping with khejri and henna Tender pods for dehydration May–June 2023 35 up tree (> 12 years old) gives on an average 7-8 kg green tender pod yield per year. The recovery is about 25-30% after dehydration of fresh sangria. However, there is high variation in market price of fresh sangria (` 20-25/kg) and dehydrated sangria (` 150-200/kg). Therefore, setting of dehydrated sangria is more economical than the fresh ones. Ripe pods may be collected by hand picking or by shaking/beating the branches. Nearly 1.4 quintals of pods/ha with a variation of 10.7% in dry location can be obtained. The pod yield is significantly correlated with diameter at breast height of the tree. One tree of Khejri gives at least 5 kg of ripe pods. Production economics Since profitability is the prime concern of farmers, hence the economic analysis of the production of pods, leaf, bark, sticks and roots is compared on the basis of feedback received from the farmers.