 The 75th year of independence of our nation is widely being celebrated as the Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav. To commemorate this monumental occasion, ICAR is organizing various events and campaigns in thematic areas of Indian Agriculture. Joining in this celebration, Agricultural Education Division is organizing ‘Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsava’ lecture series, and 75 lectures have been completed during this period. National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) commenced National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) with the assistance of World Bank (WB) in November, 2017 with an overall objective to support participating Agricultural Universities (AUs) and ICAR in providing more relevant and higher quality education to the students. NAHEP endeavours increased agricultural productivity and supports quality improvements of higher education to create a more skilled workforce that continuously improves the productivity of key sectors, including agriculture. Overall, the project aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented and at par with the global agriculture education standards. Till March 2022, 62 Agriculture universities (AUs) have been awarded under NAHEP, wherein 22 AUs come under IDP, 16 AUs under CAAST and 24 AUs under IG in component 1. Besides, 2 ICAR institutes, i.e. ICAR- Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (IASRI) and ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), has been implementing Component 2 of NAHEP. Key provisions for funding 22 projects under IDP include students’ skill and entrepreneurial development, enhancing learning outcome and teaching effectiveness, faculty development and training, networking and industry collaboration, vocational training, students’ job placement, own revenue generation and support to the twinning plan. In addition to these priorities, emphasis is also being placed on effective industry linkages to enhance the employability of agriculture graduates as well as to help AUs to generate their own resources by establishing facilitative centres. Renewed public-private partnership efforts would also strengthen stakeholders’ role in curriculum design, course evaluation and overall faculty and student development. More than 400 students and faculties have completed their international trainings in foreign institutions. During the period, IDP partner AUs have conducted more than 170 guest lecture series on entrepreneurship development trainings, established industry and institution linkages with more than 35 organizations, etc.