 24(2)/76-CDN-I dated 17.4.1976 fon- "8(a) Members of the Society elected from amongst the members of both the Houses of Parliament shall cease to be members of the Society on the dissolution of the House or on the expiry of their term or on ceasing to be members of the House." Term of membership Filling of casual vacancy and its term Resignation from membership and date of its effect Validation of acts shall cease to be members of the Society on the dissolution of the House or on the expiry of their term or on ceasing to be members of the House, which ever is earlier. b) Membership of the Society shall be determined on the happening of any of the following events :- i) On the expiry of the period of membership for which nominated, ii) Death, resignation, insolvancy, lunacy or conviction for a criminal offence, involving moral turpitude, ill) When a member himself declines to serve on the Society or his employer refuses to grant him permission to serve on the Society, and iv) When a member does not attend three consecutive meetings of the Society without proper leave of the President. (c) The President may at any time terminate the membership of any one or more of the mem- bers or at one and the same time terminate the membership of all members other than the ex-officio members. Upon such termina- tion, the vacancies shall be filled in accor- dance with the relevant provisions of these Rules. A member whose membership is so terminated shall be eligible for renomination. 9. Subject to the provisions of Rules 7 and 8, a nominated member of the Society shall hold office for a period of three years from the date of his nomination. 10. If a casual vacancy arises during the three-year period referred to in Rule 9 above, such vacancy shall be filled in like manner as the original vacancy and the person nominated/appointed to fill the vacancy shall, subject to the provisions of Rule 7 and 8, hold office for the unexpired portion of the three years' period. 11. When a member desires to resign his membership of the Society, he shall forward his letter of resignation to the Secretary who shall forthwith submit the same for the consideration of the President. The resignation shall take effect from the date of its acceptance by the President. 12. The Society shall function notwithstanding any vacancy in its body and no act, direction or proceeding of the Society shall be invalid merely by reason of such vacancy or any defect in the appointment of any of its members. Mandate of ICAR 12-A. In order to fulfil the objects as contained in the Memorandum of Association of the Society, the Council is authorised :- (i) To plan, undertake, aid, promote and co- ordinate education, research and its application in agriculture, agro-forestry, animal husbandry, fisheries, home science and allied sciences.