 Care should be taken not to allow the animal to lie till the juice dries up. Keywords: servan, chilar, udder, juice This ITK has been practised for the last 30 years. In this practice, 100-150 g leaf of Luffa acutangula, locally called peeyi peerku, is crushed to a fine paste. This paste is applied Luhar, Kantharia, Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Soormal, S/o Shri Detaji Badera, Damana (Umra Khapra), village Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Savjibhai Gamanbhai Gangodi, Baripada Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Ayyathurai Konar, Krishnapuram, dist. Madurai (Tamil Nadu) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3218 Use of Oroxylum indicurn to cure wound/cracks on udders in cattle externally, once a day for 3 days. This medicine can be applied over the previous day's application, without removing it. Keywords: intestinal worms, peeyi peerku, varmakalai, silambu In this practice, seeds of Oroxylum indicurn Vent, are fried in mustard oil and made into a paste. This prepared paste is applied externally twice daily, till the disease gets cured. Keywords: Oroxylum indicum Vent, mustard oil Shri V K Sharma Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3219 Remedy to cure bleeding from udders in cows by using stems of Dichiostachys cinerea 3220 Cure of swelling on udders by use of decoction of bark of satodi 3221 Use of fenugreek, leaves of ulukha and molasses as remedy for mastitis in cattle The stems of Dichiostachys cinerea (vidathalai kutchi) are collected and burnt. Then milk is poured on the burning sticks and allowed the fumes to pass through the udders of cow or a paste of the stems by adding milk to it is made and applied on the udders of the affected cow. This procedure has to be repeated for 6-7 days, twice a day. Keywords: bleeding from udder, milk burning sticks About 500 g bark of satodi (Boerhavia diffusa) tree is crushed and mixed with 500 ml water. This is applied on the affected area and some liquid can also be given to drink, twice a day for 3-4 days. This cures swelling on udders within a few days. Keywords: satodi, udder, bark The seeds (100 g) of fenugreek (Trigonella foenum-graceum) are fried and then crushed. The leaves of ulukha (Desmodium triquetrum) (250 g) are also ground to paste. Molasses are then added to the ground seeds and leaves. This mixture is divided into 7 parts and is applied in 2 ways (i) salt is dissolved in 1 litre water and the water is boiled, and then the steam of the Shri Palchamy and K.Arumugam, Kannakulam, RO.