 All the three-focus group dis­ cussions conducted were audiotaped, which were later analysed along with the whiteboard summaries. The identified list of factors through focus group discussions is then mapped with the barrier categories, as shown in Fig. 3. Relevance of the barriers suggested by the experts is presented below. (i) Navigational accuracy: Drone operations are subjected to regu­ lations and airspace restrictions as per the Drone rules 2022, prescribed by DGCA, India. Navigational accuracy plays a crucial role in complying with these regulations, such as maintaining a safe distance from airports, avoiding sensitive areas, or adhering to altitude limitations. Precise navigation allows drones to reach designated waypoints, follow predefined flight paths, and capture accurate data or perform specific tasks with precision. Also, precise navigation allows drone to return to home point in case of emergencies which may be deviated in the drones with low ac­ curacy navigation system. This minor deviation may lead to the drone crashing as the topography of agricultural farms is uneven. (ii) Collision and crashing: Most of the affordable agro-UAVs that assist in spraying do not have advanced collision avoidance sys­ tems. Majority of them either sense the obstruction either in omni-directional or bi-directional, often leading to collision and crashing due to obstructions such as tall trees, electrical poles, birds, transmission lines may impede the flight, and unprofes­ sional operation of the drone may lead to a collision and crashing. (iii) Age group of farmers: The transition from conventional farming practices to the adoption of UAVs certainly depend on the age group of farmers, as traditional farmers are more inclined to­ wards conventional practices. Table 1 List of factors restricting the adoption of UAVs. Category Impeding factor Relevance Reference Technical Internet connectivity For the successful operation of UAV, access to internet connectivity is imperative to various operations, including (i) updating of firmware (ii) checking if the deployment site is within the flying zone as per the regulations (iii) on-site flight planning from the available base maps. [38] Endurance time Endurance time refers to the total time a chosen UAV with the payloads can fly on one charge. The conventional drones have a limitation in terms of flying time which would not enable the farmer to cover the entire agricultural farm. [39] R&D Considering the limited availability of multi-functional Agro-UAVs, fostering R&D activities to design drones that can assist in all phases of harvesting is essential. Such muti-functional drones can significantly minimize expenses associated with purchasing, operating, and maintaining separate equipment. Also, there a significant need for developing various tools that analyse the collected data and take automated timely actions.