 Fruit fly is the most harmful pest of bitter gourd which can be managed by collection and destruction of dropped fruits and infested fruits on plants, raking the soil around the plants to expose fruit fly pupae for natural enemies and placing of cue-lure traps helps in both monitoring and management of fruit fly. Spraying of spinosad @ 5 ml/10 litre of water is also effective. Collection and destruction of beetles in early stage of infestation controls red pumpkin beetle in bitter gourd. Harvesting and yield Fruits are ready for first harvesting after 45-50 days of sowing when they become dark green, medium long (16 cm) and attains fruit diameter of 5.5-6.5 cm. The average yield is 22.26 tonnes/ha. Seed production Seed production of Pusa Hybrid-4 can be done both under protected structures and open field condition. Generally, spring summer season is preferred for open field hybrid seed production whereas under protected structures, it can be done both during summer and kharif season. It is a highly cross pollinated crop, therefore, under open field, the proper isolation distance should be maintained from other varieties. If it is difficult to maintain the isolation distance, the female and male buds should be protected by covering with butter paper bag and cotton one day prior to anthesis and hand pollination is done during early morning (7:30 to 9:00 AM). Gynoecious as female parent in Pusa Hybrid-4 allows the natural crossing between gynoecious line (Female parent) and monoecious line (Male parent). The planting ratio of 4:1 for female and male parent is ideal for proper pollination. Under protected structures, hand pollination is done for hybrid seed production. Silver thiosulphate (400 ppm) is used for the maintenance of gynoecious bitter gourd lines (Female parent) which induces hermaphrodite flowers for selfing and sieving. The diseased and infected plants should be removed from the seed production field. The fully matured and ripened fruits should be harvested when the fruit colour has turned orange yellow. The fruits are crushed to separate seeds from the pulp followed by sun drying for 2-3 days till the moisture content of the seeds reaches 8% or below. The average seed yield is 2.5-3.0 q/ha. The seeds should be stored in moisture proof bags. For further information, please write to: T K Behera (Director and Principal Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 231 304. *Corresponding author’s email: tusar@rediffmail.com Field view of Pusa Hybrid-4 Machaan system January–February 2022 5 D K Samadia and A K Verma* Research N ative and drought tolerating cucurbits such as kachri, kakadia, mateera, tinda and tumba are components of traditional mixed cropping and play a significant role in providing nutritious food and income to inhabitants of desert eco-system.