 India today dominates the world market contributing about 80% (30,000 tons) of menthol mint in various forms – Menthol crystals and powder, demontholised mint oil, and arvensis oil. Mint cultivation occupies 300,000 ha across the country. Over 90 % of the mint cultivated area is covered by CSIR developed varieties. Continuous development and deployment of improved high-oil yielding, short duration, location-specific varieties and related agro- technologies is a part of CSIR success stories in promoting Overview of menthol mint field March–April 2021 11 Mint cultivation. Further value-addition has taken place through improved distillation process and products. Most importantly, CSIR, with its mint production enhancement technologies has generated employment to the extent of 648 lakh man days in the farms and 162 lakh man days in the industry. Improved varieties Kosi: The high-yielding variety Kosi developed through half-sib progeny selection, is tall with robust growth and wider adaptability in different parts of the country. The variety is early maturing by about 10 days, and the essential oil is containing 75–78% menthol. On an average it gives 100-125 q/acre herb yield with oil content of 0.6–0.7%. It gives the highest herb and oil yield when harvested at 150 days after planting. The per capita productivity of a superior variety Kosi, enabled farmers to take this crop as a bonus between Rabi and Kharif. CIM-Saryu: Another high-yielding variety developed with large canopy and huge biomass. The leaf fall is less as compared to other varieties and is also tolerant to sudden rainfall at maturity. The variety yields 140–150 kg essential oil /ha containing 78–80% menthol. CIM-Kranti: The improved variety ‘CIM-Kranti’ of menthol mint has been developed through half-sib progeny selection. The variety is cold and frost tolerant and has the potential to produce higher oil (ffi100 kg/ha oil having 80% menthol) when grown in winter compared to all popular commercial varieties. However, during winter (September to January) when all other varieties suffer senescence by the cold and frost conditions, CIM- Kranti remains green in the field. During this period, the variety CIM-Kranti growing vigorously yields two to three times higher essential oil, compared to the popular commercial varieties Kosi and CIM-Saryu. The oil yield during the main summer crop from this variety is 10–12% higher compared to the best check varieties. Hence, this variety is suitable for commercial cultivation to generate additional income without any extra input during both winter and summer seasons. CIM-Vishisht: The variety CIM-Vishisht rich in pulegone was developed through a half-sib progeny selection in menthol mint cultivar, Shivalik. The new variety has the potential of yielding 60 kg/ha of essential oil rich in pulegone in the range of 65–68%. The pulegone has wide usage in aromatherapy, flavouring agents, perfumery, etc.