 ●Separate database on regular technical activities like OFT, FLD, training, extension activities, sponsored agencies, seeds and planting materials may be maintained ●Scientist will record the feedback on mandated activities and submit to the Chief Scientist- cum-Head and successful results will be given to line departments in the district for large-scale adoption. ●In case of constraints/problems, it will be reported to the researchers. ●Refinement done for the technology tested ●KVK feedback should be recorded in the annual progress report ● KVK should conduct impact studies on the successful activities on regular basis. ●Socio-economic impact of the technology in the district to be documented. ●Significant studies should be documented in the form of case studies/success stories as per the merits of the technology. At least one success story/case study per year should be submitted to the ZPD. 10.2Technological backstopping The concerned host institution has to ensure technical backstopping to their KVKs through Directors of Extension Education of SAUs/CAU and Directors of ICAR institutes. Zonal Project Directors will facilitate and monitor this process to ensure effective knowledge sharing. ●Periodical visits of technical experts from the University/ICAR Institute to KVKs irrespective of the host organizations essentially should be organized for providing guidance and advice at different stages of technological interventions. ●Capacity development activities should be organized in identified areas for KVK staff at the Universities, ICAR Institutes and other specialized organizations. ●Facilitating KVKs to get latest technologies from NARS for production of technological inputs as well as carrying out interventions for the benefit of farmers. ●Publication and updating of district-specific technology inventory. ●Ensure the participation of Chief Scientist-cum-Head of all the KVKs in ZAREC as members. ●Facilitate KVKs in having interface and convergence with different stakeholders in the district. 127 Scientific and Technical 10.3 Technology week 1. The KVK need to organize Technology Week on its farm in the month of September/ October or whenever the crop stand is optimum during Kharif. 2. Advance micro-planning to organize this event must be done along with beautification of KVK campus and instructional farm. 3. This event may be organized through Public-Public and Public-Private partnership mode and funds for the event may be generated through cooperation of financial agencies. 4. Dates of this event may be communicated well in advance for the benefit of farming community and larger participation. Publicity may be done through print (local cable network, private TV channel and district AIR). Pre-publicity material (posters, folders etc.) may be prepared for distribution among farmers. Propaganda of the event can also be done by publishing series of articles in newspapers and radio talks through AIR.