 Critical water‐table depths have been quantified for different crops under different agro‐climatic situations. In different crops studied, 30‐40%, 20‐22% and 5‐8% contribution of water‐table towards crop ET was observed under shallow, medium and deep water‐table conditions on varying textural soils, respectively. • Leaching requirement of different soils was studied to leach out the salts from root zones. At Hisar Bathinda and Sriganganagar, leaching requirements were quantified alongwith gypsum requirement on silt loam, sandy loam, silt clay loam and sandy clay loam soils. At Chiplima, Gayeshpur and Jorhat centers drainage requirement quantified alongwith lime requirement on sandy loam and sandy clay loam soils. • The specified techniques/agro‐techniques to ameliorate irrigation induced saline and waterlogged soils were evolved in different command areas of the country. Technologies consisting preventive and ameliorative measures have been deployed on farmers fields. Green manuring by susbenia @ 20 kg seeds/ha was found to be highly effective on all textured soils. Use of sulphonated press mud for amelioration of irrigation induced saline and waterlogged soils resulted in fast reclamation of clay and clay loam, soils. www.icar.org.in 80 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management Water management in different agricultural production systems including horticultural and other high value crops • Optimum irrigation schedules have been developed for major cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables, fruits, spices, cash crops, fodder crops, aromatic and medicinal crops, and cut‐ flowers in relation to optimum nutrient, tillage, mulches and other input requirements. Efficient water management technologies for 14 agro‐ecological regions consisting of optimum irrigation schedules, optimum depth of irrigation, proper irrigation methods, soil‐ specific land layouts and judicious use of associated inputs for 35 cereals, 12 pulses, 8 oilseeds, 20 vegetables, 6 plantation, 4 spices, 8 medicinal & aromatic, 5 flowers, 5 forage and 10 cash crops. • Identified water‐use efficient cropping systems and intercropping systems for different soil types in consideration with socio‐economic needs and marketability of the produce. Water requirement of different intercropping systems have been evaluated under optimum, sub‐ optimum and sub‐sub‐optimum levels of water availability. Suggested best intercropping options for varying moisture availability. Suggested best intercropping options for varying moisture availability in ten agro‐ecological zones of the country. • Developed irrigation schedules for crops and cropping systems for shallow, medium and deep water‐table conditions in humid and per‐humid climatic situations.