 ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 75 Sweet Potato i). Quality planting material of OFSP (Orange Fleshed Sweet Potato) to be used in different sweet potato-growing areas of Odisha that is made available through research institutions of ICAR and extension departments under Government of Odisha, Directorate of Horticulture. II). Participatory approaches were used to facilitate the development of varieties and implementation of advanced sweet potato technologies among farmers. These activities are well covered under the AICRP on tuber crops implementation plan using improved varieties. III). Improved technical knowledge on improved practices for increased production and awareness of usefulness of OFSP and other sweet potato varieties. These activities are facilitated in collaboration of CIP with ICAR institutes, public and private partner institutions. IV). Improved marketing facilities, value chain strategies and access to farming communities for easy sale and achieving better price through proper decision making on the market price at the local level. 4. Yearly action plan and collaborators from NARES Potato I. Varietal Improvement of potato for biotic and abiotic resistance varieties, processing varieties. Collaborators: ICAR/ CPRI, AICRP-Shimla, Agricultural Horticultural Universities, State Department of Horticulture Haryana, Potato Research Station, Deesa, Gujarat, AICRP Centers: Pune, Hassan, Kalyani, Bhuvneshwar, Chhindwara, Raipir, Kota, Faizabad, PepsiCo. II. Developing sustainable seed system in Plateau Region of Maharashtra and Karnataka. Collaborators: ICAR/ CPRI, Agricultural and Horticultural Universities, Shimoga State Department of Horticulture and Agriculture: Karnataka, Maharashtra, KVK-Naryanagaon, Maharashtra, AICRP, Pune and AICRP Hassan. III. Innovative Technologies for cultivating potato in cereal based system in desert area of Jaisalmer, Bikaner and Jodhpur, Rajasthan. Collaborators: ICAR/ CPRI, Agricultural University-Udaipur, AICRP Kota, Department of Horticulture, Rajasthan, PepsiCo. IV) improving income of poor farmers by intensification of potato in fallow rice lands after khariff rice in West Bengal- jointly by CIP/IRRI. Collaborators: ICAR/ CPRI, Department of Agriculture, West Bengal, ACIRP Kalyani, IRRI. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 76 Sweet potato CIP and CTCRI will possibly strengthen the sweetpotato breeding program in India as new clones of OFSP were received recently that are projected to give better yields, having high dry matter and beta-carotene. A new collaboration in the area of value chain improvement for sweetpotato is been explored between the two institutions, and to work on a project mode with specific objectives targeting locations that will help meet farmers requirements across India. New technologies under IPM umbrella can be explored in areas where is there is critical need. 5.