 • The encapsulation technology appears to be significant game changer because it can be used to deliver all kinds agriculturally important microorganisms like nitrogen fixers, nutrient solubilizers, PGPR, Trichoderma, etc. • The technology has captured the imagination of a wide range of end users and stake holders and is being touted as one of the most innovative agricultural technologies in the country. • The biocapsule technology has definitely given a fillip to the efforts in promoting green agriculture in the country and is catching up fast in different states. There is absolutely no doubt that the technology will revolutionize the world biofertilizer industry in the years ahead. • No wonder that the first licensee M/s Codagu Agritech was one of the 17 start-ups in agricultural sector from the country invited for presentation before the Hon’ble President of India Shri Ram Nath Kovind during the Festival of Innovation and Entrepreneurship (FINE), a unique initiative of the Office of the President of India to recognize, respect and reward grassroots innovation, on 19 March 2018 held at The President House of India New Delhi. Crops covered by the biocapsule technology Spices: Black pepper, ginger, turmeric, cardamom Leguminous crops: Pea, Pigeon pea, Black gram, Green gram, Chick pea, Cow pea, Soybean, Peanut, Lentil, Berseem etc Vegetables: Lettuce, Cabbage, Cauliflower, Brinjal, Capsicum, Gourds and other cucurbits Tree crops: Clove, Nut mug, Cinammon, Mango, Apple etc. Beverages: Tea, Coffee, Cocoa, etc Fruit crops: Grapes, pineapple, Banana, Strawberry etc. Spread of biocapsule technology in India The technology has now spread to majority of the spice cultivating states like Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Maharashtra, Madhya Pradesh, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Himachal Pradesh and even NE states like, Nagaland, Sikkim, Tripura etc. (Table 1) covering approximately 15% of the area and we expect it to double by the next 5 years. Impact of encapsulated delivery of agriculturally important microorganisms • The benefits from the technology can be visualized at three levels. The gains to the technology developing institute, the gains accruing to private firms involved in the manufacturing and distribution of the technology and the benefits to the end users (farmers) of the technology. • The gains from the technology across the three levels were estimated to be 21.82 crores for the year 2018-19 in spices crops alone. The benefits in other crops (vegetables, fruits, ornamentals etc) will be multi-fold. • The cost involved in production of the capsules and the cost of technology adoption have been deducted from the gross value generated by the technology. Conservative estimates are used for evaluating user benefits and the real impact could be of higher magnitude. • Apart from these monetary gains, use of bio-capsule technology has also promoted organic input use in agriculture reducing the need for chemical inputs.