 It is worth noting, that in the Indian context, caste and social identity also play an impor­ tant role in determining access to formal credit (Karthick and Madhes­ waran, 2018; Chavan, 2012), and disparity in credit seeking behavior is widely documented. Much of this arises from structural inequalities, such as inadequate access to land as collateral and awareness of credit schemes, but there is also evidence of discrimination in loan approvals (Kumar and Venkatachalam, 2019) for historically marginalized groups. This points to the need for dismantling structural inequalities that limit access to formal finance and credit facilities for smallholder farmers, along with promotion of financial literacy to generate demand for such services. Steps are already being taken in this direction by leveraging SHGs as a platform for improving access to formal lending, where land titles as collateral may not be readily available. The discussions with farmers also indicate that awareness around climate change and appropriate CSA practices is still relatively low among the masses. According to the literature, climate change adapta­ tion strategies are hampered by lack of access to information, especially for smallholder farmers. From the discussion thus far, access to inputs and information is clearly critical for promoting sustainable and local­ ized CSA adoption. While facilitating access to inputs, infrastructure, and finance is a relatively resource-intensive exercise, interventions that target removal of information constraints are relatively easier to implement, potentially more cost effective, and can be localized rela­ tively inexpensively. Weather and climate information could be com­ bined with actionable options that farmers could implement to reduce the related risks. The information systems need to be tailored to the local context, making them more pertinent to local farmers, enhancing farmers’ perception about the reliability of such information, and facilitating better understanding and retention. Evidence across devel­ oping countries from South Asia and Africa highlights that for weather advisories to be used adequately, it is important to match it with the needs of the farmers it caters to. Use of ICT and multimedia can enhance understanding and promote engagement among farmers. Extension training programs are helpful for building trust and reliability and bridging existing knowledge gaps. Educational advisory programs play a critical role in addressing issues of information access, especially among the poor and marginalized (Likhi, 2019). Moreover, extension agents have an important role to play beyond providing information on CSA practices, including help with establishing market linkages and access­ ing inputs necessary to practice CSA.