 Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders Product Development • MILKSAFEON: Mobile App was developed under the ICAR-NIAP project on Policy Imperatives for Promoting Value Chain of Agricultural Commodities in India and released 203 Agricultural Education 203 by Secretary, DARE and DG (ICAR) on the occasion of the National Milk Day Celebration at NDRI, Karnal on November 26, 2021. • FFP Portal: The Farmer FIRST (Farm, Innovations, Resources, Science and Technology) Program, an FFP portal (https://ffp.icar.gov.in/) has been developed. This program was initiated in October 2016 to provide a platform to farmers and scientists for creating linkages, capacity development, technology adaptation and application, on-site input management, feedback and institution building. ICAR-NIAP team distributing seed kit under SC Sub Plan Basahra village, Panipat, Haryana Training Program for the Officers of the Indian Economic Services 204 ICAR Institutes Profile 204 ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: Library Ave, Pusa, New Delhi, Delhi 110012 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Dr Rajender Parsad iii. Email address: director.iasri.car.gov.in; Phone: 91-11-25841479 2. Mandate and activities • Research, education and training in agricultural statistics, computer applications in agriculture and agricultural bioinformatics. • Advisory/ consultancy services/ methodological support/ computational solutions to NARES/NASS (National Agricultural Research and Education System/ National Agricultural Statistics System) Activities • ICAR-DC (Data Centre) and ICAR-DR (Disaster-Recovery-Centre) • ASHOKA (Advanced Super Computing Hub for Omics Knowledge in Agriculture) • Advanced Statistical Software’s and Tools • Advanced Bioinformatics Software’s and Tools • In-house developed customized Statistical Software’s • CAFT (Centre for Advanced Faculty Training) • Training and Teaching Labs, AR/VR Lab • KRISHI-MEGH (cloud infrastructure for ICAR) and AGRI-DIKSHA Channel • e-governance Online Systems 3. Salient achievements • Developed the methodology for General Crop Estimation Surveys (GCES), cost of cultivation studies for principal food crops, cash crops and horticultural crops, Integrated Sample Surveys (ISS) for livestock products estimation, fruits and vegetable survey, for estimation of multiple crop area of different crops in North Eastern Hilly Regions using Remote Sensing data; for estimation of post-harvest losses, small area estimation technique and integration of technologies and CCEs for providing estimates at GP (Gram-Panchayat) level for PMFBY (Prime Minister FasalBimaYojna).