 NBCC has also awarded work for the construction of Administrative Block, Academic Building for faculty of Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry, Hostels and Vice Chancellor residence. 9. Finance and Budget The University gets funds from Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Govt. of India for carrying out its activities. Students in library and computer lab 22 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY During the academic year 2016-17, the University was allotted a budget of Rs. 35.49 crores only. The Balance Sheet as on 31st March, 2017 and Income and Expenditure Account for the year ending 31st March, 2017 is given in Annexure- VI and VII. 10. Other Major Activities/Events 10.1 Hon’ble President of India Addresses the Students and Faculty The Hon’ble President of India, in his capacity as the Visitor of Central Universities, IITs, NITs and other institutes of higher learning, addresses the students and faculty members of these institutions through Video- Conferencing using the National Knowledge Network (NKN) twice in a year, once in January and again in August at the beginning of the academic year. As part of this ‘Visitor-Central Institutions Interface’, the President of India addressed the institutes of higher learning on 10thAug 2016 and 10thJan 2017 on the topic Innovation: A Way of Life and Building a Happy Society, respectively. The live telecast of the address was successfully organized by the University in which all the students and faculty members participated. The President, during his address on Innovation: A Way of Life, proposed nine sutras to invigorate India’s march towards a more inclusive, diverse, sustainable and innovative society which include –(i) not to snub children when they ask questions to which we have no answer; (ii) promote and reinforce a scientific temper by questioning our beliefs which are not compatible with scientific way of thinking; (iii) set up innovation clubs and tinkering labs in schools, colleges and research institutions; (iv) build viable and sustainable bridges between formal and informal knowledge systems; (v) give due recognition to cultural, technological and traditional skills while implementing our employment guarantee schemes and skill development programmes; (vi) bring our educational system in line with contemporary societal expectations; (vii) overcome the deeply-embedded inertia in our psyche and constantly ask ourselves: how can I solve this problem? Can I still try, no matter if I fail a few times?; (viii) develop a sense of immediacy as time and tide waits for none; and (ix) not to tolerate inefficiency, shabbiness and poor quality work. He delivered a new year message to students on Building a Happy Society and called upon the youth to enhance happiness by learning to wear a smile always; laughing at life; connecting with nature and getting involved with the community.