 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an autonomous body under the Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The Secretary to the Government of India in the DARE functions as the Director-General of the ICAR. The Financial Adviser of the DARE is the Financial Adviser of the ICAR. Generally single-file system is followed between DARE and ICAR. The DARE has 14 Group A, 10 Group B, 14 Group C and 6 group D employees. The recruitment to the post in the Groups A, B, C is being made centrally, either through the Department of Personnel and Training or through the Department of Agriculture and Co-operation, depending on the level of the post. The DARE makes direct recruitment only to Group D posts. Such recruitments are being made in accordance with the orders of the Government of India regarding reservations for Scheduled Castes, Scheduled Tribes and Other Backward Classes. Presently, DARE has 7 Scheduled Caste employees. A detailed break up of the posts and names of the important functionaries is given in Appendix II of DARE. The financial requirement (Grant No. 2) includes budget estimates (BE) and revised estimates (RE) of DARE and ICAR (Plan and Non-Plan) 2002-2003 respectively. The detailed break up of these financial figures is given in Appendix III of DARE. ICAR The Indian Council of Agricultural Research is the apex organization at the national level for promoting science and technology programmes in the agricultural research and education. The ICAR was set up on the 16 July 1929 as the Registered Society under the Societies Registration Act 1860, on the recommendations of the Royal Commission on Agriculture. It was reorganized twice, in 1965 and in 1973. The headquarters of the ICAR is located at the Krishi Bhavan, and its other buildings Krishi Anusandhan Bhavans I and II, New Delhi. The Minister for Agriculture is the President of the ICAR, and the State Minister for Agriculture is the Vice-President. The principal executive officer of the ICAR is Director-General, who is also the Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The General Body of the ICAR Society is the supreme authority of the ICAR, and the Minister for Agriculture, Governments representatives of India, heads it. The members for this are the Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of various state governments, representatives of Parliament, industry, education institutes, scientific organizations and farmers (Appendix 1). The Governing Body (Appendix 2) is the chief executive and decision-making authority of the ICAR. It is headed by the Director-General. It consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationists, legislators and representatives of the farmers.