4 Moisture content = 30 w/w% - - [83] In another study, an orange and banana peel fertilizer was utilized to investigate the yield and growth of a leguminous crop called chickpea (Cicer areitinum L.) [78]. In a greenhouse, the authors applied the peels at different doses (0, 4, 8, and 12 g/pot) and in different forms (powder, foliar spray, and powder extract). Firstly, the peels were cut into small pieces, dried in the sunlight for 20 days, sieved, and stored at room temperature. For the powder method, the fruit peel composite was applied to the pots and mixed with the soil, forming a pH of 7.24. The powder extract was prepared by dissolving 1 g of the composite fertilizer in 100 mL of deionized water and stirring for 3 days using a magnetic stirrer. It was also used as a foliar spray, whereby a liquid fertilizer was applied by spraying it onto the plant leaves as opposed to the soil [84,85]. For the plant growth phase, three seeds were planted, which were later thinned into one plant. Urea containing 46.6% N and 45% P was added as a solution at a rate of 10 kg.donm−1 at the beginning of planting. The results showed that different fertilizer application methods influence the growth of plants when applied at the same dosage. For instance, at a dose of 4 g/pot, the foliar spray method gave a plant height that was similar to the other methods (Table 5). The performance of the foliar spray method was consistent with the number of branches at that same dose for different treatments. A dose of 8 g via foliar spray yielded a higher number of pods, and a 4 g dosage increased the dry weight of 100 seeds relative to the powder method and compared to their controls. The importance of the method of application was demonstrated in this study, and the impact it has on the growth and yield of plants was revealed. Urea applied at the beginning of planting combined with the foliar spray method proved to be most efficient. A similar study using a different crop could be conducted to determine whether the results obtained using this method are consistent. Banana peels in the soil enhance the nutrients essential for plant growth, especially potassium. This was observed in a study by Nossier [79], who studied the effect of dried banana and orange peels on the growth and quality of tomatoes by comparing the availability of potassium (K) and nitrogen (N) in organic and inorganic fertilizers in two experiments, i.e., laboratory incubation and a field experiment, respectively. The incubation experiments were conducted with a mix of 300 g of soil, 40 g of compost, and 40 g and 20 g of composite peel fertilizer. For the incubation experiment, the soil was treated with animal waste compost (80 kg/32 m2) and superphosphate fertilizers (16 kg/32 m2) before planting the tomato seedlings. It was divided into four lines: the first and second lines were treated with mineral fertilizers and the named control.