5 45 0 Coccinellids Spiders Indian Farming 26 January 2025 No-Code AI Courses For Agriculture Students Be Future Ready Implement AI In Agriculture Without writing a single line of code Course – 1: Future Ready Farming: Mastering No-Code AI for Agriculture • Course Duration: 45 Hours, Self-paced E-Learning course, 3 Credits • You will learn how to integrate AI in Agriculture using No-Code AI Platform • Price: Rs 1499 /- Course – 2: AI in Agriculture: 5 Real-World No-Code AI Projects • Course Duration: 45 Hours, spread over a semester, 3 Credits • You will work on 5 Real-World projects to integrate AI in Agriculture • Price: Rs 1999 /- Course – 3: Virtual Internship in No-Code AI for Agriculture Students • Course Duration: 100 Hours, spread over a semester, 4 Credits • You work on an industry aligned Agriculture Project under the guidance of industry experts • Price: Rs 2999 /- Mystik Minds presents Distinctive Features of the Courses: • No-Coding skills required! Yes, you will implement AI in Agriculture without writing a single line of code! • Course Type: Value-Added MOOC / Skill-Enhancement / Online Courses • Mode of instruction: Self-paced E-Learning courses and Instructor-led Online / Virtual Internship • Aligned with: ICAR’s 6th Deans Committee, which recommends a 10-credit allocation for MOOCs f • For more details and registrations, visit https://nocodeaihub.com • Avail 50% discount on all courses by using coupon code “mega50” • For any query/clarification, please write to info@mystikminds.com Mystik Minds Pvt Ltd https://mystikminds.com Email: info@mystikminds.com Indian Farming 27 January 2025 Crop diversification opportunities in major rainfed production systems J. V. N. S. Prasad*, K. A. Gopinath, B. Bhargavi and K. B. Sridhar ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 059 Crop diversification is an effort to increase crop diversity by temporal and spatial cropping systems to enhance productivity, sustainability and maintain the ecological balance. It is recognized as one of the most feasible, cost-effective and rational ways of developing resilience to the changing climate. Crop diversification can help to increase the income of smallholder farmers, conservation of natural resources, many agronomic benefits in pest management by breaking insect habitats and disease cycles, reducing weeds and soil erosion, and conserving soil moisture. Inclusion of perennials and high value crops in the system enhances income and also acts as an insurance against complete crop failure under rainfed conditions by providing multiple produce in one time from same piece of land. Keywords: Agroforestry, Double cropping, Intercropping, Rainfed agriculture A GRICULTURAL intensification has already aided us in achieving food security, but there is a need to reorient existing agricultural systems to be more sustainable to address household food, nutrition and environmental security.