 Initial investment for dragon fruit cultivation is comparatively high, and is mainly due to training system establishment. Estimated cost of establishment of one acre land for dragon fruit production is ` 5,90,000, which includes cost of land, single pole training system (about 450 Nos. at ` 1250/pole) and land preparation, etc. For the fully established orchard, the annual maintenance cost is about ` 3,65,500 per acre. Average economic yield after 2 years of planting is 6-8 tonnes per acre. At present the market rate is ` 70-120 per kg fruit, so the revenue generated by selling fruits is per year is ` 7 to 8 lakhs. Benefit Cost Ratio (BCR) is: 2.58. Marketability of Dragon fruit in India is expected to be very high because of limited number of commercial producers and high demand. Dragon fruit cultivation had been started from past few decades in Mizoram, Assam, Sikkim and Nagaland so that there can be availability of high value Fig. 3. Area under Dragon fruit cultivation in India (data as on 2021) Fig. 4. Import of Dragon fruit, 2021 November–December 2023 39 Offseason technology Training modules fruits in local market and with income generation to the farmers. The climatic condition of Northeastern states is suitable for the cultivation of dragon fruit on a large scale, production and processing of this fruit crop improves nutritional and livelihood security. CONCLUSION The increase in area and production of future fruit crops in Northeastern states will not only strengthen nutritional security, but also assist in boosting the local economies and sustainable livelihoods. Empirical appraisal of agro-climatic requirements of the crop, appraisal of ecological plasticity of potential tropical and subtropical humid areas in parts of India through application of GPS tools for area expansion needs due consideration. Commercial production, optimizing post-harvest handling protocols and value addition of these crops would also enhance the income of small and marginal farmers. For further interaction, please write to: 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India 2ICAR, Central Horticultural Experimental station, Chettalli, Karnataka, India Email ID: avojack2023@gmail.com Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ` 700.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: `50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan – I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 011-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” this book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel.