 9 ICT-Roadmap ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi Objective The objective of this roadmap is to establish the ICT Unit at ICAR HQ for development, implementation, monitoring, management and coordination of ICT services and digital platforms as per IT / ICT guidelines / policies of Govt. of India. This unit will also be responsible for providing all technical and logistic support required in major ICT research and development projects in different ICAR institutions. Further, there is need to create an IT Unit in ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi under direct supervision of Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. The Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Unit has been set up through renaming the e-governance cell of the Council. This will improve the coordination and implementation of digital resource management and advisory service platform in line with Government of India, instead of working in isolation. Some of the digital e-governance solutions developed by the Government are to be rollout by the Council with required customization, such as e-office, eHRMS, Learning Management System (LMS), Digital 4 10 ICT-Roadmap Locker etc. This requires strong collaboration with Meity and NIC apart from providing training and skill development of the staff in the Council for uniform implementation of these systems across different institutions. The ICT unit will also guide ICAR institutes to enrich their digital platforms as well as repositories through dedicated five Functional Groups led by respective Group Leaders. These groups is being created by the Council at IT Unit at ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi. The Group Leaders of these functional groups is to directly report to Director, ICAR-IASRI New Delhi and reviewed by ADG (ICT) of ICT Unit in ICAR HQ. These groups were formed by leveraging existing officials in ICAR, hiring contractual staff and outsourcing routine services. 11 ICT-Roadmap All ICT related work of development, implementation and operational management in the Council will be divided into following groups / categories. These groups are proposed as per common standard practices of ICT followed globally. A separate IT Unit will be created in ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi, under which these functional group will be made operational. The In-charge of this IT unit will directly report to Director, ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi and reviewed by ADG (ICT), ICAR New Delhi. 5.1 ICT Functional Groups (FGs) Each group will be headed by a Group Leader. These functional groups will be further sub-divided into sub-groups based on functional requirement. In each of these sub-groups project staff may be hired on adhoc basis as per requirements for a particular time period. 5.2 FG1 - Infrastructure The infrastructure functional group will look after all requirements related to the establishment, implementation, operations and day to day maintenance of all equipment/hardware system, software, storage including cyber security.