 Food-borne pathogens testing methods were developed to verify quality of products. Inclusion of red chilli in chicken meat products improved its storage stability. Equine and camel hairs could be blended to develop naturally coloured furnishing fabrics. In Fish Production and Processing, under the inland sector, a complete inventory and mapping of large water- bodies of more than 10 hectares in West Bengal were done through digital image-processing technique using satellite data. The management guidelines based on biogenic production potential were formulated for four reservoirs of southern Rajasthan. Under culture fisheries, the medium carp, Puntius gonionotus was incorporated in culture system to diversify freshwater aquaculture. Maturity could be advanced in Indian major carps on supplementing semi-balanced diet with lysine and methionine. In north and north-eastern states, more than 100 species of ornamental fishes were identified. Captive breeding of Carassius auratus, Puntius conchonius and Colisa fasciata was standardized. In gold fish, four variants in body colouration and caudal fin formation could be recorded. Under coldwater fisheries, the water quality of glacier and spring fed streams of Garhwal Himalayas was found quite congenial for sustaining fish and benthic food-chain, and potential sites for conservation of ‘mahseer’ and snow trout could be located in these streams. Significant variation was observed in size and fecundity of ‘mahseer’ stocks in riverine and lacustrine zones of Uttaranchal. Under brackishwater aquaculture, an immuno-stimulant technique was developed to tackle shrimp disease problems and reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction technique was standardized for detection of yellow head virus disease in farmed shrimp. In mariculture, broodstock development, breeding and larval rearing of damselfish Chrysiptera unimaculata and grouper, Epinephelus malabricus have been achieved in captivity. Development of production technology of ready- to-consume fried mussel in flexible retortable pouch with shelf-life of more than one year at room temperature, and standardization of production technology of battered and breaded balls from small squids as raw material, which otherwise was not suitable for export, are the highlights of fish harvest and processing technology. In fish genetic resources, polymorphic micro-satellite loci from nine prioritized species were identified. Sperms of wild accessions of Horabagrus, Labeo, Catla and Cirrhinus species were cryo-preserved, and six species of Labeo were genetically characterized. Besides, CIFELOSTRESS formulation to reduce stress and resultant mortality of fish seed during transportation and a diagnostic PCR kit for dreaded white spot syndrome virus (WSSV) have been developed.