 Farmers of plantation crops are also advised for adopting various plant protection measures, and irrigation and nutrient management in Rabi season. Farmers are also advised to grow various vegetable (Brinjal, tomato, cauliflower, cabbage, knol-khol, bhendi, brinjal, ridge gourd, leafy vegetables, gourds) by adopting improved practices for better yield and income. Foliar spray of the multi-nutrient mix, vegetable sampoorna is advised to rectify nutrient deficiencies, if noticed. Advisory is also given to the farmers for management of various livestock enterprises viz. dairy, poultry, goat & sheep, and fisheries during the coming Rabi season. Maximum cattle and buffaloes show oestrus symptoms in winter season. Farmers are advised to look for oestrus signs in animals viz., bellowing, mounting on other animals, cervical discharge, anorexia, reduction in milk yield and do Artificial insemination / Natural service accordingly for assured pregnancy. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 15 Zone-I HImACHAL PRAdesH Himachal Pradesh is predominantly a hilly state, where majority area (about 80 %) is rainfed. During Rabi season wheat among cereals, chickpea & lentil among pulses and sarson among vegetables are predominant crops. Among vegetables, cole crops, peas, onion, and garlic are the main crops. Some important advisories to harness optimum returns are advocated for farmers. Wheat HS 542, HPW 360 cultivars of wheat are recommended for low and mid hill zone of the state under early sown conditions (Up to 20th October) whereas HPW 155, HPW 349, HPW 249, HPW 236, VL 907, HS 507, HPW 368 are recommended for timely sown conditions (15 October- 15 November) in these zones. For late sown conditions (up to December end) VL 892, HPW 373 can be grown in low and mid hill conditions. HPW 155 and HPW 236 are recommended cultivars of wheat for high hill zone and Saptdhara and Him Pratham (DH 114) for high snow-covered areas under timely sown conditions (1-15th October). The sowing should be done in lines with spacing of 22 cm with seed rate of 100 Kg/ha and 150 Kg /ha for timely and late sown conditions respectively. Before sowing treat the seed with Bavistin @ 2.5 g/kg of seed. Apply full quantity of SSP (375Kg), MOP (50 Kg) along with 50 per cent of Urea (130 Kg) along with FYM at the time of sowing while remaining half quantity of Urea should be given at the time of crown root initiation or occurrence of first rain. Since, weed causes heavy economic loss to the wheat crop and to avoid these losses, Vesta @ 400g/ ha or Chlodinafop @ 400g/ha followed by 2, 4- D @ 1.25 kg/ha after 2-3 days of Clodinofop spray are recommended for chemical management of weed problems. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 16 The spray should be done after the appearance of 2-3 leaf stage in weeds. Among diseases yellow rust and Karnal bunt are major problem in wheat crop which can be managed by the spray of Tilt @ 1ml per liter of water at the appearance of the symptoms.