 Verma (1998) 21 Treatment of dysentery with common salt A handful of common salt is given to the cattle along with the normal food. It can also be dissolved in four litres of water and fed to the ailing animal (Shimoga, Karnataka). Sankaranar ayana (1998) 22 Control of foot and mouth disease in cattle It is common bovine disease prevalent mostly during the monsoon. If infection is limited to feet only, animal becomes lame. However, it is more common for the animal to get infected in both mouth and hooves. Such animal also stops eating. Milch animal reduces its milk output by 60 to 70 %. And if it continues for about 10 to 12 days, it is difficult to regain its milk production. Small farmers and landless labour who keep only two or three milking animals as source of income gets affected severely. The leaves juice of kidamari (Aristolochia braeteolata) is used to cure this disease. It is applied on the infected hooves. This treatment is followed twice a day till animal gets relief. Kidamari is a small shrub which grows wild in common lands. Its name is in itself indicative of its toxic nature (kida means worm or insect and mari means killer). Farmers use the plant for controlling various field and storage insect pests. It is found commonly in the dry regions of Surendranagar and Bhavnagar districts of Saurashtra. The farmers believe that the bitter taste of leaf juice is responsible for killing the pathogens. Most of the people know about this property of the plant. However, its use varies from region to region (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Sambad (1995) 188 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 23 Control of FMD by alum Fifty gram alum is dissolved in 500 ml water and boiled. This solution is used for washing affected parts till the animals start rumination and feeding. Sometimes, after washing powder of alum is filled in the wound also (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 24 Prophylectic measure against foot and mouth disease by applying Geru Geru is applied on the hornes of all the animals the herd. It protects the animals from the spread of the disease (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 25 Treatment of FMD by smoke of hooves Scrappings of hooves of horses are burnt to smoke close to the nostrils of the animals. The disease is cured in short time (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 26 Control of FMD by banlila leaves A paste is made from 100 g chopped and well pounded leaves of banlila and applied on the ulcers and blisters regularly about for a week (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 27 Control of FMD by kusum seeds Powder of kusum seed (Schleichera oliosa) is placed on the ulcers of hooves till it get cured (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 28 Prophylectic measure against FMD by feeding of eggs of spider to the animals The farmers feed the eggs of spider with the flower of ragi to the animals.