2 Post Matric Scholarship for Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe Candidates This is provided to Scheduled Caste and Scheduled Tribe students for pursuing Bachelor degree programme in agriculture and allied sciences, with the basic objective to support the students from the weaker sections of the society. The scholarship is provided @ `1000/- per month per student. 2.1.3 Merit-cum-Means Scholarship for undergraduate studies This scholarship aims to attract meritorious undergraduate students belonging to below poverty line families, with an annual income below `1.00 lakh, to pursue higher studies in agriculture and allied sciences. The scholarship is provided @ `1000/- per month per student. 2.1.4 Junior Research Fellowship (JRF)/Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) for Ph.D. program Junior Research Fellowship (JRF)/Senior Research Fellowship (SRF) for pursuing Ph.D. program in ICAR-AU System is awarded @ `31,000 per month during 1st & 2nd year and `35,000 during the 3rd year. Schemes for attracting the talented Students and Capacity Building of Faculty 2 “By education I mean an all-round drawing out of the best in child and man-body, mind and spirit. Literacy is not the end of education or even the beginning.” –Mahatma Gandhi 8 Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 9 2.1.5 International Fellowships Capacity and competence of ICAR-AU system has now been recognised world over. Students from a number of developing countries are being attracted and benefited from research and teaching facilities developed in Agricultural universities by pursuing their higher studies. DARE/ICAR facilitates annual admission of over 250 foreign students of more than 20 countries to various degree programmes in agriculture, horticulture, forestry, veterinary, agricultural engineering, etc. in universities under ICAR-AU system by considering the applications received through Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE), Educational Consultants India Ltd. (EdCIL), and Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR). As more jobs are being created in private sector in the developing countries including India, there is a growing interest among the students from the developing countries to come and study in India to understand Indian Agriculture. To support their higher studies in India, a number of programmes/fellowships have been initiated as under: 2.1.5.1 Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowship This fellowship was instituted with the objectives to develop competent human resource trained in the identified best laboratories in the world and showcasing the strength of NAREE system and also expose overseas candidates to the best AUs under ICAR-AU system for creating a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future co-operation. There are thirty fellowships available every year for a programme leading to Ph.D. degree under this scheme.