in 106 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science Technologies Developed and Validated During the last five years • The ZT technology is the most widely adopted resource conservation technology (RCT) covering nearly 3 million hectares in rice‐wheat system of Indo‐Gangetic plains and has a potential to be extended to other areas, Zero tillage scores over conventional tillage by giving a net saving in cost of cultivation by around Rs. 3000/ha through saving of diesel, advances the time of wheat sowing (4‐5 days), requires less water for the first irrigation and results in less infestation of Phalaris minor, which is a serious problem in northwest India. Zero tillage produces similar wheat yield compared to conventional tillage at reduced cost. In situations where sowing of wheat is delayed, adoption of ZT can help earlier planting leading of higher yields. Nitrogen use efficiency was more where fertilizer was placed by drill compared to broadcasting in zero tilled wheat. Besides this, the technology is eco‐friendly and reduces 192 kg CO~ha (assuming 2.6 kg CO2 production I litre of diesel burnt), released during field preparation and seeding in conventional tillage. • Rotary tillage technology is an RCT in which the field is completely pulverised with simultaneous placement of seed and fertiliser using a specially designed rotary till drill. The machine is suitable for sowing wheat both under normal and late sown conditions and economises on fuel and the all‐important time especially when wheat sowing is delayed. This technology has an edge for productivity over other tillage options although the machine is comparatively costlier and also requires higher tractor power as well as maintenance compared to zero till drill. The added advantage is that the machine can be used for puddling for rice transplanting after removing the drilling mechanism where also a single tractor pass is sufficient to prepare the field. • Bed planting of wheat is done by planting two to three rows of wheat on the top of bed, around 70 cm wide and irrigation is done through furrows. Bed planting is resource conservation technology, which saves 20‐30% water and around 25% seed and fertilizer nitrogen. Farmers in north‐west India generally skip the last irrigation under flat planting due to risk of lodging. FIRB (Furrow Irrigated Raised Bed) technology reduces lodging owing to lesser physical contact of the irrigation water with wheat culm and at the same time furrow providing easy air movement. This planting method also reduces the population of Phalaris minor on the top of bed due to faster drying. It also provides an opportunity of mechanical weeding in furrows and on the top of beds, if two rows are grown, during early stages. At later stages, if weeds are still left, then manual weeding is also easier.