 For all tests, the alternative hypothesis specifies that group Farmers 〈2 Km from canal is greater than group Farmers 〉2 Km from canal. Note. Student’s t-test. ᵃLevene’s test is significant (p < 0.05), suggesting a violation of the equal vari­ ance assumption. Fig. 4. Spearman’s rho heat map for different components and AWPI. Fig. 5. Descriptive Plot for Resource Component of farmer with farm distance from Canal. Fig. 6. Descriptive Plot for Use Component of farmer with farm distance from Canal. R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 10 Knowing Good Agricultural Practices (GAPs) for efficient irrigation along the canals is needed. It is high time to change our thinking about the cropping patterns that affect soil quality and overall irrigation water needs in the command area. Most of the capacity components that should be improved in the command area of Jayakwadi dam are dis­ cussed in the discussion section. An independent-sample t-test was performed to determine whether farmers within 2 km of the canal have better subcomponent scores than other farmers (in the areas more than 2 km from the canal). Two groups of 22 farmers near the canal and 8 farmers outside the canal were compared. Preliminary data screening suggests that resource and utili­ zation scores (i.e., <2 km and >2 km) met normality assumptions using a Shapiro-Wilks test. The Levenes test was significant (p<0.05) for ‘Access’ and the AWPI overall. For others, the assumption of homoge­ neity of variance was met. An independent-sample t-test was performed to determine whether farmers within 2 km of the canal have better subcomponent scores than other farmers (in the areas more than 2 km from the canal). Two groups of 22 farmers near the canal and 8 farmers away from canals were compared. Preliminary data screening suggests that resource and use scores (i.e., <2 km and >2 km) met normality assumptions using a Shapiro-Wilks test. The Levenes test was significant (p<0.05) for Access and the AWPI overall. For others, the assumption of homogeneity of variance was met. The negative correlation between available water resources and their efficient utilization (Table 2 and Fig. 4) raises concerns about ineffective water use despite the abundance of diverse water sources. In the study area, despite the presence of multiple water resources, their usage ap­ pears inefficient at times (Table 2 and Fig. 4). Several factors could contribute to this pattern. Firstly, the heavy reliance on dam irrigation, especially for water- intensive crops like sugar cane, suggests that despite having various water sources, farmers predominantly depend on a single source. This overdependence might lead to suboptimal utilization of other available water sources. Secondly, the capacity component highlights deficiencies in knowl­ edge and infrastructure related to effective water management. The Fig. 7. Average score values of sub-indicators of the AWPI.