 Management of wild animal problem x. Cultivation of lime/lemon at larger scale as fruit crops, ginger or turmeric in shady areas, Lemon grass to ward off wildlife in cultivated field. xi. Enacting legislative measures for protection of crop from wild animals. xii. Promotion of protected cultivation in all blocks. Strategy 2: Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries i. Introduction of high milch breeds of buffaloes and cattle. ii. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Betalghat. iii. Establishment of hatcheries for need of broilor or croilor at block level. iv. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/rivulets with Mahaseer and Carp. Strategy 3: Integrated Farming system i. Protected cultivation+ Composting + Goatry/backyard poultry ii. Fodder production+ Mini dairy +Composting+ Protected cultivation iii. Seed production (Jethi rice, Lentil, onion, radish, French bean, Pea)+ Planting material supply+Mushroom Strategy 4: Reducing post harvest losses and value addition i. Establishment of Processing Units at Distt. Level. ii. Promotion of cluster approach for efficient procurement and disposal of surplus fruits and vegetables in areas. iii. Promotion of common resources on custom hire basis viz. Power tiller, Mini thresher etc. Strategy 5: Waste land development and waste water i. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. ii. Promotion of plantation of mulberry, wild fruit plants and fodder trees (Bheemal, Alnus, Celtis, Oak). iii. Construction of check dam and artificial structure to maximize water percolation rate in marginal and denudated areas. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 197 iv. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season. Strategy 6: Reduction of cultivation cost i. Promotion of well decomposed FYM, Vermi-compost and Bio-fertilizers to minimize the use of chemical fertilizers. ii. Promotion of hand tools in agricultural and horticultural operations. iii. Promotion of use of Power tillers, Power weeders, Paddy threshers, Wheat threshers, Maize Sheller, Wheel Hand hoe, Manual/ power operated Wheat/Paddy reapers iv. Promotion of mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. v. Promotion of pressurized irrigation techniques in horticultural crops. Strategy 7: Off-farm income i. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like poultry, fish farming and mushroom production. ii. Promotion of apiculture for small and landless farmers. iii. Promotion of sericulture in low hills or valley areas. iv. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants. Strategy 8: Enabling Policies i. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. ii. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. iii. Establishment of wood bank to meet the present and future demand of germplasm in horticultural crops. iv.