 Keywords: betelvine leaves, pepper, acute infection Shri M. Ariyan 2/1 Main Road, Kuzhumani, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2596 Use of redgram, kohndwari and turmeric to cure fever with diarrhoea in animals In winter season, generally old animals suffer from diarrhoea with fever. This ailment is treated by using a mixture prepared from about 1 kg redgram, 30-40 g kohndwari and turmeric.This mixture is mixed with water and boiled. The lukewarm material is given to the affected animal for getting relief. It is given twice a day for 5- 6 days. About 70-80% problem can be controlled by this practice. This practice is age- old and is followed in the village Sonapur, Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh Keywords: redgram, kohndwari, turmeric, fever, diarrhoea Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2519 Control of diarrhoea in animals The leaf extract of hupai (Bassia longifolia) is administered to the animals suffering from diarrhoea. Feeding of 3 kg steamed varagu grains also controls diarrhoea. Farmers of Elandaikundam village in Tamil Nadu are using Shri T. Ramesh Elandaikundam, Thirumalapadi via Ariyalur, Perambalur (Tamil Nadu) 621 851  these practices since 12 years. Keywords: hupai, diarrhoea, varagu 2536 Use of cumin seeds and young leaves of guava for treatment of diarrhoea Fifty gram cumin and 250 g guava leaves are mixed and ground together. A paste is made by adding sufficient quantity of water. It is fed orally to the affected animals. This practice is being used since 10 years by villagers of Tiruppathur in Tamil Nadu. Keywords: cumin, guava, diarrhoea Shri V. Azhagu S/o Shri Vellaiyan, S. V Mangalam, Tiruppathur, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 2528 Curing dysentery of goats by using bamboo leaves This is an age-old practice of Boden block of Nawapada district in Orissa. When goats suffer from dysentery, bamboo leaves are crushed and mixed with puffed rice and fed to the affected goat daily. Keywords: bamboo leaves, puffed rice, dysentery Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2303 Control of diarrhoea in goats During rainy season diarrhoea is a major problem among goats. Farmers of Ahmednagar district in Maharashtra tie a strip of cloth smeared with dung tightly on the tail of the goats. Due to tying of the strip it is believed that blood circulation becomes normal and diahorrea is prevented. Keywords: diarrhoea, goat, cloth, blood circulation Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of Cassia tora flower extract to control diarrhoea in goats During the onset of monsoon diarrhoea is very comon among goats. Many a times goats may die or lose their sturdiness. Farmers of north Solapur of Solapur district extract the flower juice of Cassia tora and feed it to goat. It is observed that diarrhoea can be kept under control.