 Particularly, the rootstock ‘1103 P’ demonstrated superior performance at a concentration of 50 μM alpha-lipoic acid, emphasizing the importance of rootstock selection in optimizing responses to drought stress. These findings highlight the potential of alpha-lipoic acid as a natural and eco-friendly biostimulant for improving 2 of 4 EDITORIAL Physiologia Plantarum 13993054, 2025, 1, Downloaded from https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/ppl.70046 by Petronia Carillo - CochraneItalia , Wiley Online Library on [16/01/2025]. See the Terms and Conditions (https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/terms-and-conditions) on Wiley Online Library for rules of use; OA articles are governed by the applicable Creative Commons License grapevine resilience in water-limited environments. The arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi Rhizophagus irregularis and biochar (BC) were shown by Wen et al. (2024) to synergistically improve the growth and physio- logical characteristics of switchgrass under saline-alkali stress. Their combined application significantly increased plant biomass, photosyn- thetic efficiency, and antioxidant enzyme activity compared to individ- ual treatments. The combined treatment also enhanced light response parameters, stomatal conductance, and the maximum electron transfer rate, offering a promising strategy to mitigate saline-alkali stress and improve crop productivity. A study on Bacillus zanthoxyli HS1 (BzaHS1) by Barghi and Jung (2024) demonstrated its effectiveness in mitigating salt and heat stress in cabbage and cucumber plants. Application of BzaHS1 or its volatile organic compounds (VOC) enhanced seedling growth under stress conditions by reducing oxidative stress through increased enzymatic activities of SOD, CAT and APX. Additionally, BzaHS1 triggered callose accumulation and minimized stomatal open- ing, further enhancing plant resilience. These findings highlight the potential of BzaHS1 and its VOC in improving systemic plant tolerance to abiotic stresses through modulation of stress-regulatory networks. Low-temperature stress, another significant abiotic challenge, was addressed by Sun et al. (2024), who demonstrated that the combined myo-inositol and corn steep liquor enhanced seedling growth and cold tolerance in cucumber and tomato. This treatment improved pho- tosynthetic pigment levels, reduced MDA and electrolyte leakage, and upregulated cold-responsive genes, such as CBF1 and COR. Notably, the synergistic effects of myo-inositol and corn steep liquor provided significant protection under low-temperature stress, promoting early crop growth and resilience. Jasso-Robles et al. (2024) explored the role of putrescine, a small molecule, as a biostimulant in Arabidopsis. Their research showed that putrescine enhances plant growth and photosynthesis by influencing critical genetic and metabolic pathways.