 Impact analysis 4 Sub total 75 Administrative 19. Staff in position 4 20. Utilization of infrastructural facilities 5 21. Support from host organization 3 Sub total 12 Financial 22. Fund utilization 4 23. Revolving Fund status revenue generated 5 24. Financial reporting, timely submission of SE/UC/AUC 4 Sub total 13 Grand total 100 Table 2: Grading of KVK using performance indicators Aggregate score Grade Remarks More than 75 Very good KVK getting very good grading can be given an incentive through additional contingency support ranging from ` 3 lakh to ` 5 lakh so as to further strengthen their activities. From 50 to 75 Good KVK getting good grading can be encouraged through further guidance to improve their performance. Less than 50 Average If a KVK gets average grading consecutively for two years, an Advisory Team be set up by Zonal Project Director to find out the major constraints and suggest appropriate measures for improving the performance. 24 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 4.3.3 Modalities for technological backstopping The concerned host institutions have to ensure technical backstopping through Directors of Extension Education of SAUs, CAU and Directors of ICAR institutes. They may also seek the support of Zonal Project Directors in ensuring proper technological backstopping even if it is required from other institutions/organization. ●Periodical visits of technical experts from the University/ICAR Institute to KVKs irrespective of the host organizations essentially should be organized for providing guidance and advice at different stages of technological interventions. ●Capacity development activities should be organized in identified areas for KVK staff at the Universities, ICAR Institutes and other specialized organizations. ●Facilitating KVKs to get latest technologies from NARS for production of technological inputs as well as carrying out interventions for the benefit of farmers. ●Publication and updating of district-specific technology inventory. ●Ensure the participation of Chief Scientist-cum-Heads of all the KVKs in ZAREC as members. ●Facilitate KVKs in having interface and convergence with different stakeholders in the district. 25 Recommendations 4.4 Convergence and linkage As the frontline extension system of ICAR, KVKs have the onerous job of strengthening the technology adaptation mechanisms among farmers. Having been recognized as the only scientific institution at the district level in agriculture and allied sectors, every KVK has to work in harmony and partnership with many organizations for achieving its goals and objectives, which necessitate functional linkage with all development agencies/organizations and other stakeholders, especially the farmers. 4.4.1 Coordination between KVK and ATMA Realizing the importance of joint functioning of KVK and ATMA, the DAC and DARE have jointly issued a circular on 27.01.2011 to all concerned organizations.