 The veterinary facility should have minimum provision of an animal examination room, operating room and separate animal indoor accommodation along with an animal handling yard. 5 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS The animal examination room must be equipped with an examination table that is capable of being easily cleaned and disinfected, and suitable hand wash basin supplied with hot and cold water. This room should have instruments and equipment necessary to conduct thorough clinical examinations of animals. The operating room must have a separate surgical room or enclosed area for large animals equipped with items necessary for carrying out surgical procedures. The Gaushala must have an indoor animal accommodation facility adequate for the number and cows to be accommodated at the hospital. The Gaushala must have accommodation to quarantine animals that are suffering from suspected infectious diseases.It should be separate from all other areas of the hospital so as to prevent the spread of disease to the other areas. Handling yard All Gaushalas should have a handling yard for collecting, filling and control of individual animals for weighing, vaccination, tagging, spraying etc. The size and numbers of different component pens of handling yards, depend on the number of cows to be handled. Size of Gaushala Length of handling yard (m) Width of handling yard (m) 100 cows 10 5 500 cows 20 5 1,000 cows 30 10 Space for staff quarters, storage, growing fodder and other allied gaushala activities Staff quarter The number of staff required at different sizes of Gaushala is given under Section (9) protocol for staffing requirement. The Gaushala Manager and Supervisor and at least 10-25 % of the workers at the Gaushala should be accommodated at the Gaushala premises. The norms for space requirement for quarters for a manager, a supervisor and workers may be as per the Central Government Guidelines for various categories of Central Government employees. 6 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS Space required for stores The stores will be required for concentrate feeds, straw and equipment at the Gaushala. The size and type of buildings for stores can be decided on the basis of quantity of feeds and fodders that are to be stored at the time on the Gaushala. Approximate storage space required for different types of feeds are given in Table 6. These figures may be helpful in determining the sizes of feed stores needed. The size of the concentrate store required is determined on the presumption that 0.2 m3 storage space is required per adult unit. Table 6. Approximate storage space (m3) required per quintal of certain cattle feeds Hay (loose) 1.60 Hay (baled) 0.70 Hay (chopped) 0.60 Straw (loose) 3.00 Straw (baled) 0.70 Bran 0.50 Grain & oil cakes 0.17 Space required for straw/ hay shed Availability of common dry fodders or crop by-product is seasonal i.e., at the crop harvesting season, these have to be stored for use throughout the year.