 National Talent Scholarship (NTS): Merit based support through National Talent Scholarship to the under-graduates (UG) and Master degree students admitted in AUs through ICAR All India Entrance Examination (AIEE), was provided. During the year 3,917 UG and 1,857 PG students were provided NTS. ICAR Fellowships for post-graduate students: For recognition of talent and promotion of merit in general, and for encouraging talented students to undertake higher agricultural education in particular, the ICAR awards ICAR-PG scholarships and JRF/ SRF Fellowships (PGS) to post-graduate (PG) and doctoral students, in different disciplines of agriculture and allied sciences. The 600 and 297 students were awarded ICAR-PG Scholarships and ICAR-JRF/ SRF(PGS) for Master’s and Doctoral studies, respectively. ICAR-Post Doctoral Fellowship: The ICAR Post- Doctoral Fellowship (ICAR-PDF) is a new programme initiated to identify and support motivated young researchers for conducting research in frontier areas of agriculture and allied sciences to build the national capacity. It provides them a platform to develop as an independent researcher capable of initiating a new programme in nationally important priority areas under the supervision of a mentor. Against the approved slots of 25 PDFs (10 per year for ICAR-IARI Pusa, New Delhi, and 5 each per year for ICAR-IVRI Izatnagar, ICAR-NDRI Karnal and ICAR-CIFE, Mumbai respectively), two fellows joined the programme at ICAR-IARI, Pusa New Delhi. Globalization of agricultural education: ICAR awards Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships and coordinates Special Agricultural Scholarships under India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS), Indo-Afghan Fellowship Scheme to support the human resource development in newer and challenging areas through formal education of scientists/faculty/students in India. The ICAR facilitated admission of 143 foreign students from 21 countries in Indian Agricultural Universities by considering the applications received through the DARE, Education Consultants India Ltd (EdCIL) and Indian Council of Cultural Relations (ICCR). Total 219 applications were received from the students from 38 countries. Netaji Subhas-ICAR International Fellowships: With the objectives to develop competent human resource and showcasing the strengths of National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) and to create a pool of scientist-envoys for enhanced future co- operation, Netaji Subhas ICAR International Fellowships are offered for pursuing Ph D programme at Indian agricultural universities (AUs) and overseas universities for Overseas and Indian candidates, respectively. The amount of fellowships for Indian and overseas candidates is @ US$ 2000 and ` 40,000 per month respectively.