 4 Whether the transactions will first take place in SNA’s external systems or in PFMS? It depends on the system used by SNA as explained earlier in Question No-3. SNA’s have the following options for the implementation of the guidelines: 1. Integrate their own system (existing or newly created) with PFMS for MIS only i.e. post completion of transactions on their systems. 2. Integrate their own system (existing or newly created) with PFMS for payment through PFMS. 3. Directly use REAT module of PFMS. 82 4. SNA and all child agencies work on the State Integrated Financial Management System(IFMIS) integrated with PFMS. However, in this model too, SNA can't be replaced by Treasury. The State must designate SNAs, Open Single Nodal Account of SNAs and IAs in banks and map them in IFMIS. Transfer of funds to PD account by the State or keeping funds in the Consolidated Fund of the state shall not be permitted. For options 1, 2 and 4, transactions will originate from the external system. In option 3 all transactions will be on PFMS. 5 What would be hierarchy of IAs? Whether it will be till Block Level or below? To be decided by the State government/ SNA. 6 How the training to IAs will be imparted to use their zero-balance subsidiary account especially at lowest or Block level? To be decided by Banks and SNAs. The State Directorates of PFMS shall play a supporting role in respective States. 7 How the existing account balance of IAs which is indifferent banks will be moved to the SNAs Bank? This will be a one-time action for transfer of funds through electronic transfer or cheque or any other suitable instrument to be done as per the directions issued by State Government/ SNAs. 8 How the cash drawl will take place in case subsidiary account branch of the IAs is at a distant place? Cash drawl can be done through cheque or a banking correspondent. As per Para 6 of OM only banks with extensive branch network is to be chosen to handle Single Nodal Account. As such, the chosen bank is expected to provide solution to this aspect 9 Whether the accounts of IAs, can be opened in Banks other than that of the SNA? No 10 To implement the new scheme from July 1, 2021onwards, is it required to pull up all the current funds at IA account level to SNA account to make it zero-balance accounts? Yes 11 Some IA's are wanting to withdraw cash, write local payments etc. on the basis of their existing operating model, how should that is addressed? In case the SNA opts for an external system, like Bank System or SNA’s own system, the provision for withdrawing cash can be made in such external system. This can be done through cheques or banking correspondents. No issues are envisaged in these modes as the transaction will happen on the Single Nodal Account. The external system used by the SNA and IAs should have to provision for real time balance availability subject to allocated limits for such payments.