 This ploughing is done during rainy days. The second intercultural ploughing is done after 7-9 days of first intercultural ploughing when 6-7 inches water is standing in the field. It is done only in sandy loam soils, while in dry soils only one intercultural ploughing is done. This operation is followed by planking with moi (bamboo plank) over the standing crop. The plants are laid down in the mud. This kills the insects that stay over the foliage. The field is also leveled by this operation. This operation is called moi dona. After moi operation, paddy plants stand straight. Weeds are decomposed in soil and the yellow, damaged and decomposed leaves of paddy are pruned and covered in soil (mud) along with decomposed weeds. The weeds which  CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS remain undecomposed are taken out. This operation is called nikoni. After 2-5 days of nikoni operation, some of the tillers of paddy are taken out and transplanted where there is no plant (gap space). This operation of equalizing the plant population is called gachhian. The operation makes the plants more vigorous. When the plants attain a height of 1-1.5 feet, branches of kendu, bhelwa, sinduar, mahua, sal or padoi are placed in the field in standing position at different places. This helps in getting away insects. The birds also sit on these branches and feed on the insects. At the time of panicle formation, 4-5 days before flowering, the second weeding nikoni and bachhai are done. Harvesting When the grain is matured, the plants are arranged in standing position at some level with the help of long bamboo, so that harvesting can be done conveniently and ears are not disposed off here and there. In the mean time, preparations for threshing-yard are done during September. Tand and Aush paddy is harvested 4-6 inches above the ground level. The small plants of 4-5 handful and big plants of 2 handfuls are kept separately in lines while harvesting. The long plants are harvested upto 1 foot above the ground level. The bundles are tied after drying in the field itself. Post-harvesting The harvested paddy is transported to threshing floor/yard (khawari) either by bullock cart or manually. Threshing yard is prepared by pasting cowdung and Kodan ash or mud paste. Paddy is set in the yard and bhelwa branch is placed over it in standing position. Paddy plants are sometimes set over kodo straw. Threshing of small paddy plants is done by bullocks or by man with the help of their feet. Threshing is done also with the help of bamboo. Paddy plants are beaten by chanchad made of bamboo or plank (pata) made of wood or on stone rock. After threshing paddy, grain is separated with the help of bamboo sup. This practice is called dhukai. After dhukai (separation of grain), the paddy grain is stored for consumption and seed purpose by separate methods. Paddy grains are stored in bamboo dedmi, oldi, kotha, wooden box or muva handi, etc.