 Advantages and applications of using cryomilt The cross-breeding of two broodstock representing diverse genetic makeup is likely to improve genetic diversity, resulting in enhanced fitness and improved seed quality. When such broodstock is from a known and certified origin, it sets the base for certification and traceability. During the program, a control set was produced in the majority of the farms, however, due to constraints of separate rearing space, awareness, and lack of uniform rearing conditions, the growth data was not comparable, though 15- 30% more growth was recorded over local inbred population. Therefore, the perception of the hatchery managers was recorded through a questionnaire. Most of the respondents believed that 20-30% additional growth can be obtained by outbreeding. Partner hatcheries were convinced that the cryobanking technique can be used for early seed production wherever the male matures one or two months later in the breeding season. Some of the farmers believed that the early seed will reach the marketable size early and thereby, have a positive impact on the overall production. The seed producers expressed the need for a similar protocol for other potential species, such as pangasius, grass carp, etc. SUMMARY This technological demonstration opens up a new vista for the sustainability of carp aquaculture. Quality seed is a pre-requisite for any culture system. Inbreeding is affecting seed quality, as genetic management of broodstock is not followed due to a lack of awareness and resources. An alternative approach could be to use cryopreserved sperm of unrelated healthy stock to establish a cryobank and facilitate exchange between hatcheries for quality seed production. From the point of view of genetic exchange from broodstock, it will be useful that two lines from different hatcheries produced with frozen milt of different males are exchanged, maintained, and cross-bred for seed production for sale. Using PIT tagging for identification, hatcheries can produce genetically diversified seeds for farmers by crossing. Through systematic training and demonstrations, youths can take up cryobanking as an enterprise and can take help under the PMMSY scheme of the Govt. of India. The establishment of cryobank in various parts of the country can create livelihood opportunities for semi- technical unemployed youths, with support through skill upgradation programs. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: santoshcife@gmail.