 y Collection and conservation of local land races and wild relatives of tuber crops for research and development. y Standardization of region specific packages of practices for different cropping/farming systems, organic farming, natural farming for tuber crops. y Improving water management (water conservation, water harvesting and increasing water use efficiency). y Adoption of new farm technologies such as resource conserving technologies (RCTs), crop diversification, improving pest management, better weather forecasts and crop insurance and harnessing the ITKs and farmers’ innovations in tuber crops. y Establishment of processing units for value addition of tuber crops and establishment of Village Incubation Centres for employment and income generation. y Standardization of animal feed concentrate of cassava and sweet potato along with good feed supplements y Organizing Rainbow diet campaign to ensure food and nutritional security, especially among women and school children. y Development of mitigation and adaptation strategies to climate change to increase resilience and reduce vulnerability at local, regional and state levels. CONCLUSION Tropical tuber crops play a vital role in ensuring food and nutritional security of the people of Northeastern region. Climate resilient varieties and technologies of tuber crops are being demonstrated in these states for enhancing productivity and profitability. Concerted efforts are warranted by the researchers, extension professionals, policy makers, FPOs, progressive farmers and other stakeholders to make the tuber crops farming economically viable and sustainable in Northeastern region of India. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, 2Senior Scientist, ICAR-Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Sreekariyam, Thiruvananthapuram 695017, Kerala, India. Email: director.ctcri@icar.gov.in Indian Horticulture 60 Management of Low-Cost Greenhouse Structures for Northeast Region In Northeast region of India, the resources or inputs like soil, water climate, etc., are very much favourable for the rare crops to be grown. However, topography of land is a limited factor for large greenhouses and farmers have to construct small greenhouses suitable to sloppy lands available. Big markets are far distant with transport infrastructure not being proper, low-cost structures and overall low investments are more beneficial for the farmers in this region. Study in different Northeast regions on greenhouse cultivation has shown that quality vegetables, flowers can be grown in low-cost protected structures that can fetch good returns in markets. Flowers like orchids, Anthuriums can be successfully grown in walk in tunnels, wooden polyhouses, etc., to improve financial status of local farmers boosting economy of the region.