 For the purpose, maize seed is soaked with deodar oil which is somewhat diluted with water. In this process, the seed becomes coated with the oil. The coating of seed with oil helps to keep insect-pest away. This is nominal cost practice. Keywords: seed treatment, deodar oil, insect-pest Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Provine (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and ITK, 2002. Sher- EKashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2401 Use of goat and sheep manure in maize field The application of sheep and goat droppings and urine in the maize field helps in keeping it free from insect and pest attack. This is Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education,  highly effective in case no chemical fertilizer is applied in the field. Traditionally farmers rear sheep and goats on their farms and their dropping and urine are used as manure. As a result, there is least problem of insect-pests in the crops. This practice is consistent with farming system approach where different enterprises are taken together at the same time in the filed and they complement and supplement each other. This practice is prevalent among the farmers of Doda and Udhampur districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: goat sheep manure, insect-pest attack Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2411 Uses of rock salt in treatment of maize seed Rock salt treatment works against the insect pest of maize. The cutworm, which is more common, is effectively checked by this practice. Rock salt is mixed with the seed soaked in water. For treatment of 4-5 kg seed, ½ kg salt is required. It has been found effective to the extent of 25% against the infestation of insect- pests in the crop. This treatment is common in maize growing areas of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir). Keywords: rock salt treatment Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Raising of sorghum as mixed crop in cotton as bird percher In Jalgaon, Nadurbar, Dhule and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra, the farmers raise sorghum as a mixed crop scattered in cotton fileds. The grain of sorghum attracts the birds and served as a perch for the birds to reach the insects of cotton plants.