 They also agreed that there was an improvement in the research insights by the CAFT participants in terms of selection of research topics for PG/ PhD students, guiding the PG/ PhD Students research, preparing proposal for new research projects, refining the methodology of on-going research projects, applying for external-funded projects, procurement of lab equipment, establishment of new laboratories and offering consultancies and bringing out research publications. The peer group as well as the deputing authorities also endorsed that there was improvement in the extension and training related activities after participation in the Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 64 CAFT programmes in areas related the theme/ subject of CAFT programmes by giving the response of “Agree”. Table 39. Assessment of peer group and the deputing authority towards performance of CAFT participants (N=129) Performance assessment indicators Perception score Designing new course curriculum 3.90 Refining existing course curriculum 4.02 Style of explaining the subject to the students 4.26 Preparation of teaching resource materials/ manuals 4.39 Presentation of subject information 4.35 Level of scientific interaction 4.26 Selection of research topics for PG/ PhD students 3.97 Style of guiding the PG/ PhD Students research 3.97 Preparing proposal for new research projects 4.27 Refining the methodology of on-going research projects 3.99 Applying for external-funded projects 4.04 Procurement of lab equipment 3.98 Establishment of new laboratories 3.84 Offering consultancies 3.73 Research publications 4.33 Designing and organizing training programmes for stakeholders 3.82 Organizing farmers training programmes 3.90 Organizing outreach programmes 3.63 5-Strogly agree; 4-Agree; 3-Undecided; 2-Disagree; 1-Strongly disagree Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 65 Conclusions and Recommendations Conclusions  Majority of the respondents of the study were middle to old aged, male, belonging to Assistant Professor cadre, had doctoral qualification, had 6-20 years of service, fairly distributed among 25 states and CAFT centres and up to 80 days of training experience. These results imply that they had sufficiently aged, experienced, qualified and had adequate training experience to the extent either to apply the knowledge and skill gained through CAFT at their job environment or to comprehend the survey and respond accordingly in an appropriate manner. Further, it could be implied that the response of these CAFT participants had ample scope for generalization of results due its wider representation from CAFT disciplines as well as states.