 Anilkumar Keywords: Agriculture Sustainable development Land suitability analysis Overly analysis Remote sensing GIS a b s t r a c t Land suitability analysis (LSA) is the progression of inﬂuence if a certain piece of land is suitable for a speciﬁc use. Land suitability study for crops is an essential contemporary step in identifying appropri- ate and sustainable land use strategies to enhance the land’s potential. LSA for agriculture is one of the most capable models for exposing the apprehension for arable land and forecasting the allocation for long-term growth in semi-arid regions. As a result, the goal of this research is to provide a conceptual process for LSA that will aid in increasing green cover to address environmental challenges that prevent groundwater recharge. Several thematic layers like soils, geology, slope, geomorphology, Drainage Density (DD), Landuse landcover (LULC), Soil pH, soil nitrogen, soil phosphorous, and soil potassium are derived by using collateral data, and satellite images involved in LSA analysis. The Multicriteria Decision Mak- ing (MCDM), with Analytical Hierarchy Process (AHP) based pairwise comparison matrix, was applied to estimate LSA for agriculture. The outcomes revealed, around 80.53 sq.km (26.55%) is highly suitable, 87.38 sq.km (28.81%) is moderately suitable, 82.34 sq.km (27.15%) is marginally suitable, and 53.07 sq.km (17.50%) is not suitable for agriculture in the study region. The decision-making AHP tool combined with GIS presents a unique technique, and the ﬁndings from this work might be valuable in identifying viable agricultural lands in diverse regions of the world. © 2022 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd on behalf of Ocean University of China. This is an open access article under the CC BY license ( http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/ ) 1. Introduction The land is one of the most signiﬁcant natural resources in the world, and it is necessary for all aspects of life. Physical ecosys- tems such as elevation, sediment, weather, aspect, vegetation, and hydrology all impact land use potential ( FAO, 2009 ). Farming con- tinues to be the most important economic activity in emerging countries. The demand for the land has risen as a result of pop- ulation expansion, urbanization, and industrialization. All of these erroneous land uses have had a deleterious inﬂuence on farm- ing. Over the previous two decades, the global population has ex- ploded, resulting in an increased need for food and housing. Even though these are basic demands, the variety of options and re- quirements continues to expand daily. A growing disparity be- tween population growth and food supply has created a worri- ∗Corresponding author. E-mail address: badapallipradeep@gmail.com (B.P. Kumar) . some scenario throughout the planet ( Bandyopadhyay et al., 2009 ; Bhagat, 2009 ; Jafari et al., 2010 ; Adgo et al., 2013 ; Adimassu et al., 2016 ; Zolekar and Bhagat., 2018 ; Salari et al., 2019 ; Badapalli et al.