 The break-even point and payback period is 123 hr/year and 3.6 years. The percentage monetary and labour saving is 56 and 57 for cotton and 67 and 60 for red gram, respectively. Tractor-operated front-mounted three-row sorghum harvester: The tractor front mounted hydraulic operated three-row sorghum harvester consists of row dividers, stalk and earhead cutting blades, two sets of conveyors to convey the cut plant in vertical position, windrower conveyor, earhead storage tank, conveyor height adjustment hydraulic cylinders, hydraulic power transmission system and frame. Plant height adjustment is also done. The two-row dividers of the harvester feed the plant to the top as well as bottom conveyor. The plant is gripped in both conveyors, the stalk cutting blade cuts the plant and conveys it in a vertical position. The earhead cutting blade cuts the earhead and drops it in earhead storage tank. The stalk without earhead is fed to the windrower conveyor which conveys the plant and windrow in the field. The cutting and conveying efficiencies of the stalk range from 92-95% to 86-93%, respectively. Similarly, for ear head, the cutting and collection efficiencies are in the range of 83-86% and 77-81%, respectively, at the forward speed of 1.5-2 km/h. Actual field capacity of the machine is 0.23 -0.27 ha/h and field efficiency 80-83%. The cost of the developed harvester is ` 400,000 and operating cost ` 2,500/ha. Variable rate vertical boom type air-assisted sprayer Bullock drawn air mist canopy sprayer: A bullock drawn air mist canopy sprayer was developed for control of pests and diseases on tall field crops like cotton, pigeon pea etc. It has two thin high clearance wheels to go through crop rows and provision to adjust them laterally depending on crop spacing. A horizontal and vertical boom consisting of nine spray nozzles target the whole canopy of plants including top and bottom of leaves and stem. The sprayer does not allow improper chemical application underneath the crop canopy, which is a common feature among other sprayers. The trials indicated that discharge rate increased with increase in operating pressure, and discharge varied with type of nozzles. Average field capacity of canopy sprayer was 0.7 and 0.6 ha/h with forward speeds of 2.7 and 2.6 km/hr. For cotton and pigeon pea, the average draft (759 and 769 N), energy requirement (65 and 85 MJ/ha), cost of operation (` 355 and ` 360/ha), provided saving in time (88%) and operational cost (82%) over manual knapsack sprayer. Bullock drawn solar powered high clearance sprayer: To utilize available solar energy and save labour, a solar powered bullock drawn high clearance sprayer was devepoed for spraying in cotton and pigeon Knapsack type pneumatic cotton picker Manual cotton picking is cumbersome and time consuming practice requiring 1,560 man-hr/ha. Pneumatic cotton picker was developed and evaluated for saving in labour, time and cost of picking as compared to traditional practice.