32 Others 195.91 2705.18 13.81 Total 2141.74 51310.00 23.96 (Source: Horticulture Statistics at a Glance, 2018) viz. Kufri Jyoti, Kufri Bahar, Kufri Pukhraj, and Kufri Chipsona 1 together contributed around 75% of total area under potato. Potato being a labour-intensive crop requires about 145 man days for cultivation of one ha of land. Thus nearly 293 million man-days of employment have been generated only for potato cultivation during 2013-14. Besides, large number of semi-skilled labour is required for carrying out post-harvest operations like transportation, storage, processing, marketing, etc. Moreover, about 75% of the total labour force employed in potato cultivation is constituted by the women. Therefore, potato encourages gender equality in agricultural labour market. Input- intensive nature of potato crop helps in overall economic development of the country by supporting other sectors of the economy like industry, finance and services. For example, relatively higher demand of fertilizer, pesticide, farm machineries, cold storage equipment and structures, packaging materials, etc. for potato cultivation enables healthy industrial growth. Similarly, the crop supports service sectors through agricultural loans, insurance, marketing and technical consultancy, etc. Driving factors of potato growth in country Potato demand: Potato is a predominant vegetable in India. At present most of the domestic supply of potatoes is consumed as fresh (68%) followed by processing (7.5%) and seed (8.5%). The rest 16% potatoes are wasted due to post-harvest losses. However, the proportion of potato used/ wasted due to various reasons is expected to change in the medium and long term scenario. Post-harvest losses: A higher proportion of potatoes (16%) is wasted as post-harvest losses than use in seed (8.5%) or processing (7.5%). Due to hot summer temperatures, lack of state of the art cold storage facilities and massive transportation of potatoes from northern to southern states are the cause of high wastage of potatoes in the country. Export potential: India contributes to about 13% of the total world potato production, but our contribution in world potato export is around 1.6% only, which is not even 1% of the total in-house production. Potato being semi-perishable and bulky agri-commodity, its export from India is poorly guided by a long term policy support. India being the massive producer of potatoes, a healthy growth in processed potato products is anticipated. the two principal food crops, rice and wheat, contribute 18.25% and 8.22% of agricultural GDP, respectively from 31.19 and 20.56% cultivable area, respectively. It indicates that contribution of potato in agricultural GDP from unit area of cultivable land is about 3.7 times higher than rice and 5.4 times higher than wheat. Potato varieties developed by ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute are very popular among farmers and cover nearly 95% of total area under potato. India produced 45.