 Not only postharvest decay of mango fruits, HWT may also reduce the loss of cell wall degrading enzymes and preserved physio-chemical attributes. Hot water brushing at 55°C for 20 sec. shows good control of anthracnose of mango fruits. Application of chemicals: Pre and postharvest application of antioxidants and ethylene antagonists Decay of mango fruits at different storage intervals Plant growth regulators application Application of fungicide Hot water treatment Chemical treatment Indian Horticulture 34 Cold storage reduced the decay incidence of mango fruits. Antioxidants, in the form of an enhanced freshness formulation (EFF), and ethylene antagonists like sodium nitroprusside (SNP), have the capacity to reduce the loss of bioactive compounds, respiration rate, and ethylene production. This could serve as a potential tool for optimizing the quality and storability of fruits by reducing decay. In the case of Dashehari mangoes, pre-harvest application of an EFF 2000 µM at 15 and 30 days before harvest reduces fruit spoilage and decay incidence. Postharvest dipping of mango cv. Langra with EEF (1 or 2%) and sodium nitroprusside (1 or 2mM) for 5 min. reduce the ethylene production, respiration rate, and fruit ripening enzyme Phospholipase-D, which ultimately reduces the postharvest decay of the pathogens and improves biochemical attributes. These treated mango fruits also maintained their shelf-life of up to 35 days under low-temperature storage. Others: To reduce the postharvest decay, harvesting of fruits at proper stage is most important practices for the growers. Harvesting of fruits either too late or too early is most vulnerable to postharvest decay. After harvesting, fruits are normally forced- air or room cooled, preferably within 24 hr of harvest. Washing mango fruits with 100 ppm sodium hypochlorite for 5 min. to avoid physical damage and reduce the field inoculum pathogens associated with the postharvest decay of fruits. Storing fruits at 10 to 13°C with 85 to 90% RH should provide a shelf-life of 14 to 28 days for mature green fruit, depending on the variety. Ripe fruit can be stored at 7 to 8°C. Diseases are the principal factor limiting storage-life. Optimum ripening temperature is 25o C for best appearance, palatability, and decay control. Different cultivars show various responses to CA. The optimum storage atmospheres for prolonged storage and/or shipping reduced the decay incidence of mango fruits. Proper postharvest handling is vital to reduce mango decay and maintain fruit quality. Harvest at the right maturity to avoid decay, handle gently to prevent bruises, and control temperature and humidity to slow ripening and deter fungal growth. Keep areas clean to stop pathogen spread, ensure good ventilation to lower infection risks, and manage ethylene to control ripening and extend shelf- life.