 Digitalization of nurseries and trials by design generation, digital data recording and data analysis using Breeding Management System (BMS) in all proposed crops was completed. Sensor based smart packaging methods for the export of traditional banana varieties and Nano-strip based digital health monitoring of banana: Ripening stage dependent colour chart was developed for Indian banana varieties. Poovan and Rasthali has shown the colour stage development alike Grand Naine. Ney Poovan recorded lower glycemic value and maintained firmness in final stages. Total phenol and flavonoids content enhanced with the progression in stages. A duo of CNN and extreme Gradient Boosting (XgBoost) algorithm (CNN-XgBoost) is introduced for the effective determination of the ripening stage of Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 68 banana. In order to eliminate the need to have data augmentation or huge data set, Linear Discriminant Analysis (LDA) is incorporated. Thus, the proposed deep learning approach possess capability to perform classification even with a smaller data set compared to the conventional deep and machine learning techniques. Research study on the effect of various artificial ripening agents on the physico-chemical properties, enzyme activity, secondary metabolites, antioxidant activity and volatile profiling exhibited the elution of acetylene in fruits ripened with calcium carbide. For the fabrication of paper strip device to detect calcium carbide, Ag-ZnO nano composites were developed with microwave technology. Production and Valorization of Muconic Acid from Agricultural Waste to Produce Adipic Acid Via Combined Fermentation and Chemical Catalytic Process: Revival of Pseudomonas putida procured from IMTECH MTCC, Chandigarh and production of muconic acid was carried out from agrowaste. The amount of muconic acid was produced by bacteria which was 10.6g/l during 15th day of incubation. Optimization of muconic acid production with bacterial inoculation along with Aspergillus clavatus was carried out. The highest amount of muconic acid was produced by fungus Aspergillus clavatus which was 21.6g/l during 9th day of incubation. Compatibility test of Aspergillus clavatus and Pseudomonas putida on nutrient Agar plates was done on 15 days of incubation at 34-degree Celsius. After compatibility test between Aspergillus clavatus and Pseudomonas putida treatments were inoculated and successfully extraction was done for HPLC analysis for optimization of muconic acid.