 These centres are equipped to handle a comprehensive suite of basic and precision farm operations throughout the entire crop production cycle. At Krishitantra, another startup accelerated at a-IDEA, NAARM is serving farmers with deep insights and advanced levels of understanding regarding the health of their soil. The automation finesse and engineering proficiency contrive the world’s best and affordable soil health testing solution. Handa Biotech uses aeroponic technology for better potato seed production. In aqua sector, Eruvaka and Krimanshi deal with sustainable feed solutions, while Eruvaka has developed AI based on-farm diagnostic equipment during production process. Agri-startups facilitating production process: Farming in the Indian context is becoming difficult for lack of suitable equipment especially for small farmers, enormous drudgery in identifying biotic and abiotic stress and its management besides lack of financial services. Agri-startups have been finding these gaps and operating efficient services across the length and breadth of the country. Some of them focus on accurate and timely assessment of soil moisture and developing data-driven controlled irrigation models. CropIn provides 399 Investment, Policy and Entrepreneurial Ecosystem complete digitization of farms bringing automation in agriculture using SaaS (Software as a System) based cloud software helping the farmers in complete operational control and decision making about agriculture solutions. Bharat Rohan a drone operating company analyse field wise biotic and abiotic stress, advises famers and also supplies inputs to overcome it. Bangalore-based FlyBird installs censors in the soil to detect moisture content and controls irrigation at a low cost. Kisan Raja with its innovative device allows farmers to remotely control the agricultural motor using their mobile or landline and used by 34200 farmers in India. Gen Agritech uses bio-based formulations for soil treatment and repellents against wild boar, blue bull and birds. Codagu AgriTech uses bio-capsule technology for delivering bio control agents, and plant growth promoters to the farmers in efficient way. There are others like Intech Harness that provides solutions for water pump controller. Similarly, Sense-It-Out, KamlKisan, Agrirain, Manna Irrigation, Sickle innovations, Distinct Horizon, TractorJunction, Khetibadi and J Farm service are some of other agri-startups in mechanisation services. Samunnati, Whrrl and PayAgri provides financial services to the farmers through farmers’ collectives like FPOs, SGHs, JLGs, etc. Agri-startups for post-production process: Post-production process includes harvesting, drying, grading, quality checks, packing, value addition and marketing. It is imperative to reduce the chain of intermediaries between the farmer-producer and consumer to better benefits the farmer.