 Confirmation of Resistance A study was conducted at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana during 2018-19 and 2019-20 to confirm the herbicide resistance in Rumex dentatus L. (Jangli palak) to metsulfuron methyl. In this study, seeds of the putative herbicide resistant biotypes of R. dentatus were collected during both years from the farmers’ field in March-April from Haryana and Punjab states where metsulfuron methyl was used continuously from many years without any herbicide rotation. Total 56 and 33 biotypes of R. dentatus from Haryana; 6 and 19 biotypes from Punjab were collected in first and second year, respectively. These biotypes were screened under pot study. The seeds of these biotypes were sown in pots in October and 10 plants were maintained in each pot. Graded doses 0, 5 g/ha (X) and Animal drawn multi-crop planter-cum-herbicide applicator A three row multi-crop planter cum herbicide applicator was developed by AICRP on UAE (IGKVV, Raipur centre) for planting of seeds and application of herbicide simultaneously. It consists of a frame, seed hoppers, seed metering devices, seed delivery tubes, inverted T type furrow openers, sprayer tanks, boom and nozzles. Sprayer nozzles, seed metering mechanism, hoppers and seed delivery tubes are mounted on inverted T type furrow openers, and can be adjusted for row spacing of 230–240 mm. The performance of implement was evaluated for sowing of soybean, greengram and fodder maize crops. The effective field capacity for soybean, greengram and fodder maize was 0.183, 0.121 and 0.124 ha/h, respectively. Cost of the implement is ` 15,000. The cost of sowing operation per ha was ` 440, ` 666 and ` 650 for soybean, greengram and fodder, respectively. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) Indian Farming January 2022 8 10 g/ha (2X) of metsulfuron methyl were applied at 3-4 leaves stage of R. dentatus using knapsack sprayer fitted with flat fan nozzle with discharge rate of 375 litre water per ha. Based on the reduction in the shoot biomass, growth reduction was calculated by comparing with the untreated control. Results revealed that 38 out of 56 biotypes of R. dentatus collected from Haryana in first year were resistant to metsulfuron, whereas only one biotype showed resistance from Punjab. Further, 23 biotypes out of 33 biotypes collected in second year were found resistant from Haryana whereas 14 biotypes out of 19 were found resistant in Punjab. This confirmed the resistance in R. dentatus against metsulfuron-methyl in different regions of Haryana and Punjab. Earlier, some reports of resistance were only confined to Panipat district of Haryana, but this study confirmed the resistance from not only regions of Panipat but also in other areas such as Kaithal, Kurukshetra and Karnal districts. It implied the wider infestation of resistant R. dentatus in the state. Further, this study also testified the infestation of metsulfuron methyl-resistant R. dentatus biotypes in Punjab for the first time.