 These unique germplasm hold a great importance in the field of agriculture and food security. For further interaction, please write to: Shailesh K Tiwari (Senior Scientist), Division of Crop Improvement, ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: tiwarishailu@gmail.com Male sterile and male fertile umbellate and flowers of VRCAR-214 and its maintainer Male sterile and male fertile umbellate and flowers of VRCAR-252 and its maintainer CMS line (VRRAD-12) and its maintainer CMS line (VRRAD-201) and its maintainer VRRAD-201 (INGR20032, Male sterile line of Radish): First Ogura-CMS line from Public Sector in India; having robust CMS system with better combining ability and heterosis; sinuate type of leaf shape, i.e. leaf Indian Horticulture 56 Potato varieties and impact of technologies: A boon for doubling farmers’ income Potato is the third most important food crop of the world, which is grown in more than 150 countries. The potato research and development led by ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla has transformed this crop from temperate to sub-tropical crop in our country through technological interventions of >66 potato varieties, production, protection, post-harvest management and quality seed production technologies. Further, challenges such as climate resilient varieties, emerging insect-pest and pathogens, and quality seed availability need to be addressed. Rajesh K Singh*, Jagesh K Tiwari, Manoj Kumar and Brahma Singh P otato is a new world crop and was first domesticated about 8000 years ago. Because of its food and nutritional importance, it is known as the ‘Food for Future’ and also termed as Hidden Treasure, and probably therefore the year 2008 was declared as the International Year of the Potato by the United Nations. Cultivated potato (Solanum tuberosum L. Group Tuberosum) originated from the Andes mountain regions of Peru and Bolivia in South America, more specifically in the basin of lake Titicaca. It is believed that the Portuguese traders first brought potato in India during late 16th to early 17th century. Potato cultivation in the country remained restricted before independence due to non-availability of locally adapted varieties and technologies for growing potato under sub-tropical Indian climatic condition. ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla was established in August 1949 at Patna and later it was shifted to Shimla, Himachal Pradesh in 1956 in order to facilitate hybridization work and better maintenance of seed health. Besides, Shimla (HQ) its regional stations are located at Kufri-Fagu (HP), Modipuram (UP), Jalandhar (Punjab), Gwalior (MP), Patna (Bihar), Shillong (Meghalaya), and Ootacamund (Tamil Nadu). The institute played a key role in popularizing potato cultivation and utilization under sub-tropical agro-ecosystem.