 Soil moisture control: More effective and timely harvesting, planting, fertiliser application and crop water needs can be met with the use of improved irrigation equipment, laser land levelling and field water level tubes. This can increase crop yields, crop turn around potential and weather resiliency. Root and tiller development: AWD frequently increases the depth/density of rice roots, improving drought, disease and lodging tolerance as well as nutrient and water intake. The better soil structure for root exploration and oxygenation is to blame for this. AWD can also improve performance. Phytotoxin removal: With AWD, increased aerobic periods can prevent the accumulation of phytotoxins like phenolic acids, hydrogen sulphide and too much iron and manganese that result from anoxia. Soil fertility and quality: AWD’s increased organic matter decomposition lessens the requirement for comprehensive agricultural residue removal (a standard practice due to its impediment to planting). AWD or highland crop rotations in more aerobic soils can reduce methane emissions. Remainder integration is desirable for non-conventional farming systems due to the added benefits of residue on soil quality and soil carbon. Perforated Pani pipe Pani pipe installation at AWD plot Indian Farming 13 March 2023 Soil health: Under aerobic conditions, soil microbial and invertebrate activity in the root zone may increase, resulting in improved nutrient cycling and biological tillage. This makes it possible to reuse organic fertilisers for later crops that are frequently trapped in submerged soils. Decreased flooding is known to promote the macro fauna of the soil, including earthworms, which enhance the physicochemical characteristics of the soil. Way forward AWD is widely regarded as a promising method for reducing GHG emissions from irrigated rice-agro production system. This technology is essential for adaptation of farmers in smart agricultural production system. AWD is a practical way to maintain or increase rice yields in the face of potential water shortages and the need to enhance land productivity through crop rotation and mechanization. Studies have shown that in addition to the primary advantages of AWD (lower emissions, water use and pump costs), there are numerous co-benefits that can enhance socio-economic, environmental and agronomic aspects of rice production. AWD adoption and its benefits will be successful if site- specific factors such as climate, soil type, pests, kind of rotation, and irrigation access are taken into consideration. Further research will be necessary to comprehend these site-specific characteristics and the possible downsides of more aerobic regimens in rice. Research is required on the additional advantages of AWD, including but not limited to: • Effects of water conservation from AWD on biodiversity, ecosystem services, human health and the economy of natural resources. • Impact of AWD on labour productivity and gender equity.