 The eastern Indian sites of Harirajpur-Bang (Khurda district), Gopalpur (Nayagarh district), and Golbai Sasan (Khurda district) are located in the lowland coastal region of Odisha state. This region receives approximately 1500 mm of average rainfall annually, courtesy of the northeast monsoon and southwest Fig. 1. Map of sites from the study shown in their geographical context. The Deccan sites are indicated with a star icon, and the East Indian sites are shown as circles on the map.” A. Nayak et al. Journal of Archaeological Science 141 (2022) 105591 3 monsoon rains, though the latter is the major contributor (India Mete­ orological Department, 2012; Guhathakurta et al., 2020a). A number of rivers such as Mahanadi, Brahmani, Baitarani, Rushikulya, and Sub­ arnarekha flow through these coastal plains and their rich alluvial de­ posits provide a fertile environment for agriculture. In contrast, Paithan (Aurangabad district, Maharashtra) and Sanganakallu-Kupgal (Ballari district, Karnataka) are located on the northern and southern parts of the Deccan Plateau, respectively. This region does not benefit from the full effects of the monsoonal rains due to its location on the leeward side of the Western Ghats, which act as a physical barrier to the monsoon winds, as well as due its distance from the contributions of the northeast monsoon winds. The semi-arid region is drier than the eastern coast and receives a mean annual rainfall of approximately 500–700 mm, the majority of which occurs as a result of the southwest monsoon (India Department Rainfall Atlas of India, 2012; Guhathakurta et al., 2020b,c). The eastern Indian coastal state of Odisha demonstrates evidence of a distinct Neolithic tradition (Fuller and Murphy, 2014). While the archaeology of this part of the Indian subcontinent has not been sub­ jected to extensive studies yet, two different kinds of sites have been discovered so far: mound settlements and shallow (in terms of the depth of archaeological material) upland sites. Neolithic-Chalcolithic mound sites like Harirajpur-Bang, Golbai Sasan, Gopalpur, Deltihuda, and Suabarei have provided an initial picture of early farming communities in the region. Beginning approximately in the middle of the 2nd mil­ lennium BC with the movement of agropastoral communities and/or specific crops to the region, the Neolithic in Odisha is characterised by a set of domesticated crops (like rice, horsegram, mung bean, millets, and pigeon pea), exploitation of fruit trees, settled villages, ceramic utensils and objects, herding of domesticated cattle, and occasional hunting of wild animals (Kar et al., 1998; Mohanty et al., 2012; Kingwell-Banham et al., 2018). While the region was initially considered a site of inde­ pendent domestication of rice (e.g., Fuller 2006a, 2006b; Harvey et al.