 Organic Innovation Assam organization gives material for Stevia farming on 100% cashback agreement and provide free of cost training to the farmers on stevia cultivation. Support extends beyond cultivation into the processing aspect as well. Entrepreneurs seeking to establish stevia processing plants can avail a soft loan with a minimal interest rate of 1%. Furthermore, the Organic Innovation Assam organization takes an innovative approach by providing materials for stevia farming through a 100% cashback agreement. Notably, they also impart invaluable training to farmers regarding stevia cultivation at free of cost. Marketing facilities The market for stevia leaves has been expanding steadily due to the increasing demand linked to the rising diabetic population. Despite the absence of local marketing infrastructure compared to other agricultural products, various private companies like Stevia World Agrotech in Bengaluru, Karnataka, and SSP Group of Companies in Udaipur, Rajasthan, engage in contract farming of stevia. Various online platforms like Flipkart, Amazon, Big basket etc. offer a wider reach, enabling farmers to showcase their stevia products to diverse group of customers and facilitating direct sales to consumers. This approach streamlines the marketing process for stevia leaves and offers farmers more accessible avenues for selling their produce. Additionally, partnerships with food and beverage companies, health-oriented retailers, and wellness brands can offer strategic avenues for reaching target markets. With these marketing facilities at their disposal, stevia farmers can effectively navigate the market landscape and capitalize on the increasing demand for this natural sweetener. Costs and returns from stevia cultivation The different components of variable cost and fixed cost of stevia plantation in different years are depicted in Table 1. Average economic life of stevia crop is considered as four years. On an average the farmers incur ` 3,74,419 in the first year. The cost of planting material and installation of the drip irrigation system are the major components. The average yield of stevia is 2.5 to 3 tonnes per hectare during the entire crop duration. However, there exists slight variability in the yield of stevia over Table 1. Cost of cultivation and cost-benefit analysis of stevia (per hectare) Particular I Year II Year III Year IV Year I. Variable cost a) Material cost Cost of planting material @ ` 4/Sapling 197531 9876.54 0 0 Cost of FYM 5000 0 0 0 NPK 3000 2000 4500 1500 Drip irrigation @ ` 45000/acre (Charges of pump + Main pipes + laterals for drip) 111150 0 0 0 Subtotal (a) 316681 11876.