1% sodium benzoate stored at 4±2° C was studied and after six months of storage it was found that blend of 75% apricot + 25% plum treated with sodium benzoate retained maximum desirable quality attributes like brightness, redness and freshness when compared with other blending combinations. Fruit wine from pears: Of the three cultivars of pear, viz. Jagner, Sand pear and Kakria evaluated, pear ginger wine from sand pear having TSS of 22oB with 2.5% ginger was superior both immediately after preparation and at six months after storage. Edible coating of capsicum: Coating with shellac resin in capsicum significantly increased the shelf-life up to 30-35 days during storage at 10oC as compared to 10-12 days in control. The firmness and green colour values decreased from 4.02N to 2.8N and from -12.1 to -8.1 after 35 days of refrigerated storage. Vitamin C content also decreased from100-102 mg/100g to 65-70 mg/100g during refrigerated storage for 35 days. The overall sensory acceptability after refrigerated storage was 7.5 on 9- point Hedonic scale. Protein rich snack food with spinach POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 96 Dehydration of potato slices: Dehydrated potato dices/shreds were produced in a process where moisture is removed from the product which maintains the fresh taste, natural color and texture of potatoes. Dehydrated potatoes with low moisture content (3- 6%) could be safely stored at ambient temperatures up to 9 months. They could be fully rehydrated prior to consumption as curried vegetable, Jeera Aaloo, Pulao or potato snack (noodles). They are ideal products for long term food storage and emergency preparedness. They are rich in protein, vitamin C, vitamin B3, potassium, magnesium, calcium, phosphorus, zinc, copper, besides good source of fibre and carbohydrates. The technology has been registered as process for “Dehydration of potatoes” vide patent application No. 1273/DEL/2014 by ICAR-CPRI, Shimla. Dipsticks technology of glucose estimation: Sugar accumulation in potato tubers is one of the most serious problems for potato processing industry. Storage of potato at low temperature results in accumulation of reducing sugars (primarily glucose) which leads to “cold- induced sweetening”. Reducing sugars participate in ‘Maillard reaction’ during frying, thus producing dark colored finished product. The suitability of potato tubers for development of processed products such as chips and French fries etc. is mainly determined by the amount of glucose present in potato tubers. In general, glucose levels below 0.1 percent (1000 ppm) on a fresh weight basis are acceptable for chips and French fries production. As per the normal practice in India, farmers transport their potatoes to the processing industry and upon reaching the industries sites, their potato consignments are rejected due to its higher glucose content by the industry.