 Frontline demonstrations can include demonstrations on methods/practices and secondly the result demonstrations in which technology components will be taken up. The demonstrations are further classified as (a) Single practice demonstration—It includes demonstration of a single practice that is compared with the existing farmers practice. For example variety, nutrient management, pest management etc. and (b) Composite demonstration—It includes demonstration of combination of improved practices like improved seed, fertilizer, irrigation etc. to show the production potential of the technologies as compared to farmers practices. 5.17 Human Resource Development (HRD): It refers to planned approach of developing human capabilities, talents that contributes to growth of all aspects of people in terms of awareness, knowledge, skills, competence, confidence, maturity and continuous adjustment with changing environment. 5.18 Information: Collection of data itself is not information. When data are processed for conveying some meaning, it is called information. Information is data that has been processed into a form that is meaningful to the recipient and is real or perceived value in current or prospective actions or decisions. 5.19 Innovation: An innovation is an idea, practice or object that is perceived as new by an individual or group of individuals. 5.20 Impact analysis: It is an assessment of end results of a project with reference to the mandate/objectives set in the scheme for getting information about past or on-going activities as a basis for modifying or re-designing future strategies. It is to be done based on the principle of relationship between the means and effects of the scheme. This means and effects linkage can be expressed in terms of an ‘If…Then’ relationship. If inputs are provided then outputs will be produced, if outputs are produced then outcome (purpose) will be achieved, if purpose is achieved then the impact (goal) should be attained. It should be noted that the timely availability of inputs like goods, funds, services, manpower, technology, infrastructure and resources are necessary and sufficient to achieve the outputs; and the outputs should be necessary and sufficient to achieve the outcome (purpose), whereas the achievement of the purpose will be necessary but not sufficient to achieve the impact, it requires complementary effects of other related schemes and policies of the government. 5.21 Knowledge: Collection of information itself is not knowledge. Knowledge is the retained information concerning facts, concepts and relationship. It is defined as expertise and skills acquired by a person through experience or education; the theoretical or practical understanding of a subject, what is known in a particular field or in total; facts and information or awareness or familiarity gained by experience of a fact or situation. 5.