 It is estimated that approximately 70 per cent of reduction in crop yield is due to the direct impact of abiotic stresses such as drought, salinity and extreme temperatures. In the present context, one of the major challenges is large-scale screening of crop performance as a consequence of its genetic make-up. The development of advanced biotechnological and next- generation sequencing tools has led to accumulation of enormous data on genomics; nevertheless, the data on phenotype and functions are yet to be fully explained. High-throughput phenomics studies offer strategies to screen large-scale population for a particular phenotype employing advanced robotics, high-tech sensors, imaging systems and computing power. Advanced bioinformatics tools would further facilitate the analysis of large- scale multi-dimensional, high-resolution data collection through phenotyping. With the integrated approach of genotyping and phenotyping, gene functions and environmental responses can be well understood. It would help in finding relevant solutions for the major problems limiting crop production. High throughput phenotyping has unlocked new prospects for non-destructive field- based phenotyping. 109 Cutting-edge Research While the Internet of Things (IoT) make real-time monitoring and widespread distribution of information possible, AI can improve productivity and efficiency by helping farmers to make decisions on the basis of the collected data. Responsible application and adoption of AI technology can help to empower rural farmers. And if the cost of enabling this technology can be reduced substantially it can inspire youth entrepreneurship in food and agriculture and can lead to greater security, profitability and sustainability. IoT and AI can ensure sustainability, satisfy sustainable development goal (SDG) to meet hunger and empower farmers at the grass-root level. Key takeaways Artificial Intelligence facilitates effective analyses of the data and fast assessment of the situation. IoT and AI are the pathways towards sustainability. 110 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series BLOCKCHAIN TECHNOLOGY CONCEPT AND USE CASES Gaurav Somwanshi Blockchain is a shared, immutable ledger facilitating process of recording transactions and tracking assets in a business network. Blockchain’s popularity and its increasing industrial applications are because of its innate qualities. The person who invented blockchain is Satoshi Nakamoto. In 2008, Nakamoto released a whitepaper detailing principle behind blockchain and the first cryptocurrency, Bitcoin (BTC). The paper conceptualized blockchain as a public ledger that would facilitate Bitcoin transactions without intermediaries. First, we have to understand the ledger. Ledger is used by accountants to keep and to organize financial data used to develop company’s financial statements. Transactions are posted to specific sub-ledger accounts as per the company’s chart of accounts.