 In addition, Ministry of Science and Technology has developed Programmes of co-operation with various countries and International organizations in which ICAR/DARE is the participating agency in agricultural research. The Joint Commissions/Working Groups constituted by the Ministry of External Affairs and the Ministry of Commerce have the component of agriculture/ agricultural research in which DARE participates directly or through the Department of Agriculture and Co-operation. MoUs/Work Plans l ICAR/DARE agreed on Minutes of the meeting of the Committee on ‘Agriculture and Rural Development’ under the 12th Session of the Indo- Iran Joint Commission that was signed on 20 May 2002. l An agreement between Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Government of the Republic of India and Ministry of Agriculture, Water and Rural Development of the Republic of Namibia was signed on 29 April 2002 to extend the validity of existing Work Plan up to 31 December 2003. l A Protocol was signed on 11th July, 2002 during the 14th session of Indo- Bulgarian Joint Commission held in Sofia, Bulgaria from 11 to 13 July, l At Jhansi in provenances trial, provenance Bhopal was found outstanding for growth parameters. l DARE has sent 82 scientists to attend conferences/seminars/workshops/ meetings in different countries of the world. l MoUs/Workshops were signed with Iran, Namibia and Bulgaria. l Five foreign aided research projects were signed during 2002–2003 with the United Kingdom, Australia, Indonesia, Thailand and China. H E (Dr) Ephrain Kabaija, Minister of Agriculture, Animal Resources and Forestry, Government of Rwanda Republic with H E Shri Ajit Singh (MoA) DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 218 2002 for extension of the Work Plan between ICAR and Bulgarian National Centre for Agrarian Sciences, Bulgaria up to 31 December 2004. Research Projects l Collaborative Implementation of the research project, “Strategies and Options for Sustaining Fisheries and Aquaculture Production to benefit poor household in Asia” was signed between ICAR and IC&ARM, Malasiya on 1st March 2002. l Collaborative Implementation of the research project “Developing Sustainable Coconut based income generating Technologies in poor rural communities in India” was signed between ICAR and IPGRI on 8 August 2002. International linkages A number of foreign aided research projects were received in this Department during 2002–03 and the following projects were approved. l DARE conveyed no objection for participation of Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi in the Ministry of Environment and Forests. Project viz. “Impacts of Climate Change on Agriculture” with the UKwas signed for 3 years and is commencing from January 2002. The aim of the project is to assess effect of inter-and intra-seasonal climatic variability on yield of major crops. l ICAR-Natural Resource International (NRI), the UK signed on a collaborative project viz.