 The animals dwelling in muddy or wet conditions are susceptible to cracked and bruised feet and can suffer from foot rot and warts. It can be more difficult to observe foot ailments during the winter season, thus, checking feet should be a part of winter chore routine. Use of zinc sulphate and copper sulphate for foot dips is advised. Sheep and goats require at least 4 hours of sunlight for keeping their body warm; therefore, exposure to sunlight in sunny days is important. The act of delivering offspring in sheep and goats generally takes place during late night to early morning in winters. Therefore, for newly born kids and lambs, keep soft bedding in the farm at some dry and warm higher place so that immediately after birth, they may be taken care of. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 113 Provide lukewarm water for drinking purpose because cold water may lead to digestive troubles. Poultry Low temperature causes more feed intake and higher oxygen demand. Therefore, when the weather gets colder, it is essential to give the chicken plenty of food as they require extra energy for maintaining body temperature. In winter number of feeders should be increased as compared to summer. Feed should be available to the bird whole of the day. Consider rubbing chickens’ wattles and combs with petroleum jelly to provide a barrier against the cold and protect them from frostbite. Provide continuous supply of fresh and clean lukewarm water to birds. Daily monitoring of temperature, humidity and ventilation inside the poultry house as well as outside temperature is recommended. Too high or too low a temperature in brooder house slows down growth and causes mortality. January Month Cattle and Buffalo This month also have very cold environment so keep continue with provide a shelter for cattle and buffalo. Animal feeding continue with roughages preferable over concentrates due to their lower cost and greater heat release during digestion. Use of oil cakes in the recommended quantities, such as mustard oil cake, cotton seed cake, etc. can be fed. Continue with your calf deworming programme Keep continue a close eye on herd to watch for signs of stress caused by cold weather. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 114 Drinking water should be heated to 10°C to ensure proper water intake. Sheep and Goat All suggestions provided during the last month for protection of the animals against cold and inclement weather may be practiced this month too. Neonant should be provided with protective clothing to prevent heat loss from the body and providing warmth which can be made from gunny bags, sacks, blankets, etc. Sheep require more energy in the winter to maintain body temperature. Utilize average- to good-quality hays during the early gestation period, when ewe nutrient requirements are low compared to late gestation and lactation. Lambs and kids should be vaccinated to prevent Enterotoxaemia.