  The source of information about CFAT programme implies the conducive environment available at Universities and that may facilitate effective training participation by the faculty. The motivation behind participation in CAFT programmes as expressed by the respondents tells about value assumed by the participants towards CAFT programmes. This also can be further be confirmed through the response towards pre-training preparation of the participants.  Majority of the participants shared their CAFT experiences with their colleagues in an informal manner and utilized such experience in strengthening their research capabilities apart from that of education. Thus, the enhanced competency in research areas in turn enhanced their confidence in teaching the UG students and guiding the PG research scholars also.  By and large, the respondents had favourable opinion towards variables of their attributes, training design and delivery, organizational climate and transfer outcome, the four components of training transfer system. However, there was comparatively lesser average score towards their organizational Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 66 climate and this might have resulted in still lesser average score towards transfer outcomes.  The correlation studies suggested that the organizational climate is very important for facilitating transfer of knowledge and skill gains acquired by respondents back at their job conditions. The factors of the training transfer system that influenced the transfer outcomes provide hints for improvement for all the participants, training managers and authorizes of the Universities.  The respondents in general had favourable opinion towards pedagogy, andragogy and training environment of CAFT programmes.  The handholding support by the CAFT centres after CAFT programmes helped the participants to refine existing or establish/ initiate new activities towards research, education and extension mandate of their organizations. This fact is again supported by the finding pertaining to organization-wise impact of CAFT (SKUAST, Jammu).  The participants of the live CAFT programmes appreciated the pedagogy of such programmes. They also suggested strategies also for further improvement in terms of training facilities.  The information from handholding support extended by CAFT Directors implies the pointers for documentation of impact and scope for further enhancement of such efforts.  The peer group and deputing authorities opined that the competency of CAFT participants in terms of education, research and extension have been enhanced as a result of participation in CAFT programmes. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report.