 These seeds are usually shiny and range in colour from golden yellow to reddish-brown. Indian Farming 23 July 2023 Roots Linseed plants have a fibrous root system, with numerous small, branching roots that spread out horizontally in the soil. These roots help anchor the plant and absorb water and nutrients from the surrounding soil. Cultivation practices Soil preparation and planting: Linseed thrives in well-drained loamy or sandy soils with a pH range of 6.5–7.5. Before planting, conduct a soil test to assess nutrient deficiencies and adjust accordingly. Prepare the field by ploughing, followed by harrowing to create a fine seedbed. Optimal sowing time varies depending on the region, but generally, linseed is sown in early spring. Seed rate: 25–30 kg/ha. Spacing: 20–30 cm × 7–10 cm. Sowing method: Can be drilled in the field directly or broadcast in standing rice which is known as Utera cultivation. Sowing time: October to the first fortnight of November. Variety: Some important varieties of linseed are R-7 (Jawahar-7), R-552, Kiran, Deepika, RLC-81, 133, 161, 153, 148, 167, Nutrient management: Fertiliser at a rate of 40 kg/ha N, 20 kg/ha P, and 20 kg/ha K is required. Dual cropping (oil+fibre) requires a higher dose of fertilizers. Irrigation: The critical stages of irrigation are branching followed by flowering and grain filling. This crop requires 3–4 irrigations. Weed control: In this crop, Cuscuta is a major parasitic weed. Crop rotation has been proven to be highly successful. The post-emergence treatment of the weedicide isoproturon @1.00 kg/ha at 30–35 DAS might be used to control weeds. In contrast, if broad leaf weeds are a concern as well, 2,4-D (Na) @0.5 kg/ha may also be used with isoproturon in the tank. Pest and disease: Linseed is susceptible to various pests and diseases, including aphids, caterpillars, powdery mildew, and wilt. Spinosad 45 SC (0.015%) used twice a week can reduce bud fly infection by up to 78% while increasing seed output by up to 63%. Two applications of a commercial formulation made from neem that contains 300 ppm of azadirachtin reduce bud infection by up to 63%, increasing seed output by up to 40%. Harvesting and post-harvest handling: Linseed is ready for harvest when the lower capsules turn brown and the seeds rattle within the capsules. Ideally, harvest when the moisture content of the seeds is around 10%. Swathing or direct combining can be employed, depending on local conditions. After harvest, ensure proper drying and cleaning to maintain seed quality. Yield: Approximately, 8–10 q/ha in rainfed area and 16–20 q/ha in irrigated area. Industrial uses of linseed • Paints and varnishes • Printing inks • Linoleum and floor coverings • Wood finishes and furniture care • Adhesives and sealants • Textiles and fabrics • Nutraceuticals and dietary supplements • Personal care products Multipurpose applications Human civilisation has been using flax for a variety of purposes for generations.