 Employability skills training for students also initiated at regular basis. 8. Initiation of programmes of Biotechnology and Food Science & Technology at under graduate level. 9. Establishment of University- industry and University- farmer linkages for enriching teaching, research and extension activities 10. Providing opportunity to students to 'Earn While You Learn' through practical crop production, poultry rearing, pet animal keeping and other such programmes, and promoting a sense of dignity of labor among students through compulsory work programme at undergraduate level. 11. Collaboration with more than 100 international and national institutions for collaboration in teaching, research and extension. IDP-NAHEP: The great game- changer The National Agricultural Higher Education Project of ICAR emerged as a brilliant opportunity which Pantnagar availed and utilized to its fullest. It was like going ahead for millions of miles on the path of academic transformation. The strategic interventions made under the project were innovative and eye-opening. The international exposure, focused trainings to cater to higher-order cognitive skills, e-content development, regularizing students internship through industry networking, innovations in international tie- ups, alumni network strengthening, strengthening of e-governance models, concept of improvised remedial classes, language classes, entrepreneurship classes, adjunct faculty, guest faculty, amalgamation of educational technology advancements in the teaching-learning ecosystem of the University became a part of the University system through IDP- NAHEP intervention. The salient and brilliant impact and tangible outcome and output led the university to unique accolades. Towards an enriching and bright future In the advancing epoch of 78 knowledge society, the University aims to pro-actively generate stronger bridges with all its stakeholders. This integration will play a crucial role in assimilation and dissemination of knowledge and further strengthen the spirit of agriculture in the country. We aim to focus our research on technology based production and engineering and further transmitting the new techniques and tools to the farming community, progress on the path of pedagogy and pedagogical skills to have a cadre of world class teachers besides having eminent scientists and researchers, and collaborate extensively with extension functionaries to bring changes at grassroot levels. Even the contribution of our alumni has been immense. With all enthusiasm and vigilance, the University is ready to move ahead and serve the cause of integrated development in an agile manner. 1Vice Chancellor, 2Dean, G B Pant University of Agriculture & Technology, Pantnagar, Uttarakhand 263 145 Email: vcgbpuat@gmail.