It was deduced that akda leaves can be a good trap for attracting aphids.They brought some green twigs of akda and planted them in paddy field at the distances of 10–15 feet. Within a few days they found a concentration of aphids on green leaves and twigs of akda planted in the field. They repeated this practice again next year and found very good results (Kheda, Gujarat). Rathod (1997a) 71 Blast control in paddy by use of extract of karala bark Two or three kg of karala bark is crushed in water and sprayed to paddy fields to control blast disease (Karnataka) disease (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 72 Control of gundhi bug in rice by buring of old tyres and tubes Burning of old tyres and tubes in the windward direction of paddy fields controls insect pests owing to smell of burnt rubber which drives away the gundhi bug (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 73 Protection of rice from epidemic disease and insect- pests by Bara twigs. Bana (Vitex sp.) twigs (5–10) are pegged in one kanal (1 ha = 25 kanal) area after transplanting/halod in paddy fields. Bana leaves might be acting as repellent anti-oviposition against paddy stem borer and hispa. The leaves do contain aroma which might be the main cause (Himachal Pradesh). Singh (1996) 74 Control of pests in rice by use of neem cake Apply neem cake at 25 kg/ha along with fertilizer. It controls pests (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 59 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 75 Control of case- worm in rice by burning bicycle tyre Each bicycle tyre is cut into 4 pieces, requiring 20 tyres for 1 hectare. The tyre pieces are tied in pegs above vegetation heads and are burned in the evening during last week of August and first week of September. The light attracts insects (Shahdol, Madhya Pradesh). Das et al. (1999) 76 Control of green grass hopper by use of branches of salai Green grass hopper attacked the crop is brushed with branches of salai (Boswellia serrata) with more leaves, and branches are also placed in field at the distance of 6–8 m. This is done in evening and at that time some water should be available in the field; 70–80% success has been reported (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 77 Control of insect pests in paddy by use of Calatropis branches Placing Calatropis branches at the water inlet of paddy fields controls insect pests because of the alkaloid present in latex acts as a repellent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 78 Control of Banka and rice gundhi bug in paddy by light trap One meter high stands are erected in the affected crop. During night one earthern lamp is placed on the stand after covering it with a funnel shaped iron shieve. Insects are attracted and get collect around the stand. Early in the morning farmers collect these insects and put under soil (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 79 Control of Khaira and blight diseases in paddy Farmers broadcast 20 kg salt/ha (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh).