 The Director NRCPB and the scientists from UAS Dharwad were absolutely confident and assured that everything was fine with the BN-Bt seed produced for sale. The documentslletters from CICR during 2009 regarding the performance, spacing, fertiljzer requirement, seed production, fixation ofprice for procurement ofBN Bt from UAS, Dharwad and fixation 'ofsale price etc were based on these meetings and were done in compliance with the proceedings ofthe meetings held on the 12th December 2008. The proceedings emphasized on active commercialization, based on which the process to commercialize was intensified by CICR immediately from January 2009. Preparatory arrangements for seed packing were made, commercialization modalities worked out, Press notes were issued and PPV & FR application filed. 16. CICR sent some quantity ofseed to UAS Dbarwad tbrougb special messenger, Sb S.P. Mucbali on June 13,2008. Wbat was tbe quantity ofseed? Wbere and how this seed was produced? Wbat was tbe source ofseed to produce this seed? The seed may have been about two to three kg packet received by Dr P. R. Bharambe, Head, Crop Production Division, at his residence address. Dr Bharambe handed it over to Dr V. V. Singh who did not open it and the same was returned back to Dr Katageri through Sh S. P. Muchali. The original source ofthe seed was Dr Katageri who sent it for trial purposes to CICR. 17. Was tbe seed received from UAS Dharwad packed in different lots? Yes. Seeds were received in only two lots as. The lot-I was 165 q and and lot-2 had 84 q. 18. We understand that UAS Dharwad sent seed ofBN Bt packed in different lots. Was the packing done at CICR? WhO monitored the packing ofseed? Do you have lot- .wise record ofseed sold to different seed producing agencies? Please provide the relevant record. There were only two lots which were packed. The seed given to Mahabeej were from the lot- I and lot-2. All other agencies received material from lot-2. The packing was done at CICR under the direct supervision of Dr V. V. Singh and Dr P. R. Vijaya Kumari, Senior Scientist (Seed Technology). Relevant records have been submitted to AOG (Ce). 19. We understand that the seed sent by UAS Dharwad to CICR during 2009 was TL. Why TL seed was sold to various agencies to produce seed of BN Bt and Bt NHH 44? A letter written by Director ofResearch UAS Dharwad to Mahabeej on 2-6-2010 clearly mentions 'the BNBt seeds produced by the scientists ofAgricultural Research Station, Dharwad during 2009-10 were supplied to CICR, Nagpurfor seedproduction ofNHH 44 Bt'. A copy ofthe letter has been submitted. Please note that the letter erroneously mentions the date as 2009-10 instead of2008-09 which was when the seeds were supplied to CICR, Nagpur.