 Accordingly, 25 Agri-business Incubation (ABI) centers are being supported/established in various institutes. These ABIs have undertaken different activities to facilitate the business environment in the ICAR institutes, which included Business Plan Development (75); Conferences/Seminars organized (21); Consultancy (Short- and Long-term) (104); Entrepreneurs admitted for Incubation (163); Entrepreneurs graduated from the Incubator (61) and Value chain development (40). PROGRESSIVE USE OF HINDI DARE DARE ensures compliance of the provisions of the Official Language Act. 1963, Official Language Rules, resolution, general orders, notification, administrative or other reports, or press communiques, issued or made by the Central Government or by a Ministry, Department or office thereof or company, company owned or controlled by the Central Government or by any office of such corporation and various orders/instructions issued by Department of Official Language from time to time on progressive use of Hindi for official purposes in the Department and Autonomous bodies coming under its purview. Efforts to make Hindi as official language in accordance with official language policy, are being made on continuous and on-going basis. Targets and achievements, in brief, accomplished by Hindi Section of DARE with regard to progress of Rajbhasha and implementation of Official Language Policy are given bellow: Policy implementation: The Official Language Division of the Department, manned by an officer of the level of Assistant Director (OL), has made continuous efforts towards implementation of the instructions issued by the Department of Official Language in this Department and Autonomous Bodies under its purview. In this regard, effective check points have been prepared for compliance of the implementation of the Official Language Policy and circulated to all officers to ensure more and more use of Hindi while disposing of their official work. Emphasis is also given to achieve the targets of correspondence in Hindi with offices located in ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ Regions. Notification of Institutions/Offices under Rule 10(4) of the Official Rules 1976: Institutes/Offices of ICAR where 80% of staff have acquired working knowledge of Hindi, are notified under Rule 10 (4) of the Official Rules 1976. Overall 129 offices and attached stations with regional offices of ICAR have also been notified. Official Language Policy related meetings: Quarterly up to 25 November 2016 Joint Meetings of Official Language Implementation Committee of DARE and ICAR are held regularly under the Chairmanship of Additional Secretary (DARE) and Secretary (ICAR) who is the nodal officer for implementation of the official language policy in DARE.