 It is better to talk to your veterinary doctor for a deworming schedule in goats. Š Š CDT vaccination protects goats against clostridium perfringens type 'C and 'D' (overeating disease) and tetanus. Goat kids should be vaccinated at 7 to 8 weeks of age. The booster shots should be given 4 weeks later. Subsequently these goats should be given goats once a year. 14. Poultry Farming Š Š Linking the supply of poultry produces (egg and chicken meat) with the essential commodity supply chain to all the notified / targeted areas. Š Š To create awareness to all consumers about egg and chicken meat quality and safety through all relevant government departments. At present there are several myths / false notions among common population about the production and quality / safety of poultry products (egg and chicken meat). Therefore, proper education of common man about the health benefits of eggs and chicken meat, production standards, bio-security and health care being practiced, the ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 63 quality and nutrient specs of poultry diet, which help them to understand and appreciate the safety of poultry products. Š Š Cleaning, Grading, Packing and Branding of eggs with clear specifications like Date of production, expiry Date, egg weight, protein and essential phospho-lipid content on the pack, will boost up the confidence of consumers. Š Š Improving the transportation of live birds in closed containers by providing the required micro- environment including temperature, ventilation, oxygen levels, etc, will improve the image of poultry farming and gain consumer confidence. Š Š Encourage consumption of processed chicken meat by developing hygienic automatic processing plant, attractive packing with all relevant product information, providing proper cold chain and establishment of trusted brand values. Š Š Mass campaign to advocate consumption of chicken meat and eggs with different health department wings including human doctors, health / fitness centers, popular sports persons, social workers, etc. will certainly help to increase the consumption of poultry produces without any prejudices. Š Š Mass vaccination of all backyard poultry birds against Newcastle and some other viral diseases is essential to prevent outbreak of the disease during stress period like severe summer. Preparation of Shed before Brooding Š Š Spray an insecticide just after the old birds have been removed. Š Š Remove all the non-stationary equipment and residual feed from troughs and bins. Š Š Eliminate all rodents and wild birds if any. Š Š Remove all the manure, litter, feathers, cobwebs, dust, and any other organic materials by scrapping with a hard brush. Š Š Remove all weeds and rubbish from the area outside the house, bur feathers, etc. Š Š Remove dust/ feathers from wire mesh, crevices, cracks, cages, and floor using flame gun. 15.