 Note: Seedling purchase cost in farmer’s practice is ` 25,000. While, seed cost in intervention is ` 5200 to prepare nursery for 1 acre transplanting. No bolting and bulb doubling was found in intervention practice. For further interaction, please write to Dr Sable P. A. (Assistant Professor - Vegetable Science), College of Horticulture, Sardarkrushinagar Dantiwada Agricultural University, Jagudan, Dist. Mehsana, Gujarat. *Corresponding author email: sable.pating@gmail.com View of bulbs Bolting free farmer’s rabi onion CV. NHRDF Red 4 field Bolting Bulbs with inferior quality in local variety May–June 2023 39 O NION is one of the most important commercial vegetable crops grown in India. It is grown in western, northern as well as in southern India. Maharashtra, Gujarat, Uttar Pradesh, Odisha, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh and Bihar are major onion-growing states in India. However, in Maharashtra, onion is being cultivated during all the seasons starting from kharif, late kharif and rabi. However, the crop transplanted in rabi season is ready for harvesting during the summer season and has better storage life in comparison to the onion crop grown in other seasons. Onion production and export statistics In Maharashtra, farmers from the major onion growing belts like Nashik, Pune and Ahmednagar cultivate onion crops in all three seasons and other onion growing districts are Dhule, Jalgaon, Satara and Solapur. In India, onion is grown in 12.20 lakh hectares with 228.19 lakh MT of production during 2018-19 (NHB, 2018-19). In 2016, total onion production was 209.31 lakh MT of which 65.29 lakh MT (nearly 31.19%) was recorded in Maharashtra. During 2017-18, onion export from Maharashtra was 10.54 lakh MT with a share of 66.37% of total export. Onion marketing and storage scenario in summer season The onion cultivation in some regions of Maharashtra during the rabi season is majorly based on the production and market trends during the preceding years and the availability of resources. The rabi season onion crop is becoming ready for harvest during the summer season. However, bumper production during summer months creates a glut in the market. In the same period, the prevailing market prices are very low and some of the farmers sell their produce in distress due to a lack of their own storage structure. Since onion is a bulk commodity, storing onion in large quantities is a challenging issue. The quality and safety of onions depend on proper pre- and post-harvest handling and storage conditions. The proper field and shade curing is the most important post-harvest operation for the storage of onions (Fig. 1). Other factors like choice of varieties and agronomic practices also have a major role in onion bulb quality and storage life. However, due to the unavailability of a proper storage facility at the farm, the onion produce in the summer season is sold in the market.