 This sprayer has an adjustable and foldable boom, which can be adjusted for height as well as for position of spraying nozzles. The price of bicycle sprayer is fixed at Rs 2,200 excluding the bicycle. This sprayer has features like low cost, ease of use, low maintenance and larger area coverage, which make it better than the hand-operated equipment and less costly to operate than tractor or two-wheelcr mounted sprayers. Uniqueness of this product is that it is the only one of its kind in the market and offers a wide variety of benefits to the users, e.g. (i) energy- efficient and easier to operate and maintain; (ii) flexible product with adjustable height and width of spraying boom to increase flexibility for various crops; (iii) since bicycle requires less space to move, it can be used in a more versatile manner than power sprayers that are mounted on tractors; (iv) it increases the efficiency and saves the labour cost, as it can cover more area compared with manual spraying; and (v) it is much simpler to assemble and dissemble, and thereby serves dual use of sprayer- cum-bicycle. Keywords: bicycle, sprayer, pedal, nozzle, boom, drudgery, tiresome Shri Rameshbhai Bhalala has developed a sprayer, which is operated through 7.2 HP diesel engine and three-piston ASPEE sprayer pump. The engine and pump are mounted at 5 feet height on the self-designed iron Shri Rameshbhai Bhalala Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2933 Chandraprabha, a rain gun (sprinkler-cum-fertilizer sprayer) chassis mounted on four pneumatic wheels. This is highly efficient for cotton and other crops where the plant height is more. It is also used for interculturing by attaching harrow behind it. Keywords: sprayer, diesel engine, cotton, interculture By studying the conventional sprinkler irrigation system at various exhibitions and locations, Shri Annasaheb of Belgaum district of North Karnataka came out with his own design to suit the requirements of sugarcane crop. He worked with wood at home and ultimately arrived at a suitable design, which he got fabricated at a foundry. It involves components like pump, main pipeline, lateral pipeline, riser pipe and sprinkler. After installing it in his field, he further refined its design. To achieve a balanced shaft movement, Shri Annasaheb added 400 g of additional weight at the back. At the outlet, he provided a groove for fixing nozzles of different sizes to throw water to different lengths as needed. Further, he introduced a locking system to prevent the sprinkler head from throwing water into the neighbouring fields. With all these refinements, now he has an almost perfect sprinkler head, which he has named after the goddess - Chandraprabha.