 Most effective against sucking pests and mealy bugs. Mixed leaves extract: Crush 3.0 kg neem leaves in 10 litre cow urine. Crush 2.0 kg custard apple leaf, 2.0 kg papaya leaf, 2.0 kg pomegranate leaves, 2.0 kg guava leaves in water. Mix the two and boil 5 times at some interval till it becomes half. Keep for 24 hours, then filter squeeze the extract. This can be stored in bottles for 6 months. Dilute 2-2.5 litre of this extract to 100 litre for 1 acre. Most effective against sucking pests, pod borer and fruit borers. Chilli-garlic extract: Crush 1.0 kg Ipomea leaves, 500 g hot chilli, 500 g garlic and 5.0 kg neem leaves in 10 litre cow urine. Boil the suspension 5 times till it becomes half. Filter squeeze the extract and store in glass or plastic bottles. Dilution of 2-3 litre extract in 100 litre. water is used for one acre. Chilli garlic extract @ 9 kg/ha (8:1) most effective against gall midge, green leaf hopper (GLH), thrips, white fly, semilooper, shoot and fruit borer of brinjal/tomato and tobacco caterpillar of soybean. Broad spectrum formulation: In a copper container mix 3.0 kg fresh crushed neem leaves and 1.0 kg neem seed kernel powder with 10 litre of cow urine. Seal the container and allow the suspension to ferment for 10 days. After 10 days boil the suspension, till the volume is reduced to half. Grind 500 g green chillies in 1 litre of water and keep overnight. In another container crush 250 g of garlic in water and keep overnight. Mix thoroughly and filter the boiled Chilli-garlic extract. This is a broad spectrum pesticide and can be used on all crops against wide variety of insects. Dilution of 250 ml in 15 litre of water for spray. Cow urine: Cow urine diluted with water in ratio of 1: 20 and used as foliar spray is not only effective in the management of pathogens and insects, but also acts as effective growth promoter for the crop. Fermented curd water: In some parts of central India fermented curd water (butter milk or Chaach) is also used for the management of white fly, jassids, qreyaphids etc. Certification system In India, there are two accreditation systems for authorizing Certification and Inspection agencies for organic certification. National Programme on Organic Production (NPOP) promoted by Ministry of Commerce is the core programme which governs and defines the standards and implementing procedures. National Accreditation Body (NAB) is the apex decision making body. Certification and Inspection agencies accredited by NAB are authorized to undertake certification process. The NPOP notified under Foreign Trade Development and Regulation (FTDR) act, 1992 and controlled by Agricultural Processed Foods Export Development Authority (APEDA) looks after the requirement of export while NPOP notified under APGMC act and controlled by Agriculture Marketing Advisor, Directorate of Marketing and Inspection looks after domestic certification.