 WGS data analyses revealed the complete repertoire of virulence, bacteriocin and multidrug resistant efflux pumps in the emerging prevalent clone of MDR E. coli detected in the livestock, providing deeper insights of the pathogen biology. This Whole Genome Shotgun was deposited at DDBJ/ENA/GenBank under the accession LUYD00000000. The fluorescent polarization assay (FPA) for brucellosis was developed and used for differentiation of infected and vaccinated animals (DIVA). It can be used from 21 days post vaccinated animals for DIVA whereas commercially available cELISA can be used only beyond 60 days post vaccination as a DIVA test. Random samples (5,997) were screened for brucellosis, recording highest sero prevalence of 11.32% in sheep followed by 2.77% buffalos, 2.14% goats, 1.94% pigs and 0.85% in cattle. Recombinant synthetic gene construct of multi-epitope antigen using immune- dominant epitopes of Brucella abortus was expressed and characterized. Bluetongue virus was isolated from sheep/goat samples received from 5 North Eastern states, 24.46% sero prevalence for BT virus were recorded. Sheep pox and goatpox virus were also isolated during field outbreaks. Data analysis of 20 PPR outbreaks in sheep and goat, occurred in Madhya Pradesh and Karnataka, revealed mild to severe form of the disease. The phylogenetic analysis of the N & F gene sequences of PPRV from NE region of India revealed circulation of lineage IV virus. Further 48.86% PPRV antibodies were recorded among goats in NE region. BVDV 1 and BVDV 2 were prevalent with 1.5% seroprevalence for bovine viral diarrhea virus (BVDV) among ruminants in Nagaland and Manipur. Samples from Nagaland, Manipur and Meghalaya also revealed CSF virus in 62.96%. Lymnaea auricularia snails, collected from 11 districts of Karnataka, were screened for the presence of Fasciola infection and 5.1% prevalence was recorded. Prevalence was more in Deccan plateau (4.65%) followed by Western Ghats (4.57%) and coastal region (3.43%). Screening of bovine surra samples from eight states/UTs revealed 79% prevalence of Trypanosoma evansi antibodies with highest prevalence in Puducherry. Japanese encephalitis virus and other flaviruses: Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV/SW/IVRI/395A/2014), isolated from stillborn piglets with hydrocephalus and hydranencephaly were sequenced (GenBank Accession no. KP164498). Phylogenetic analysis indicated that the virus belonged to genotype III and shared closest homology with some old Japanese isolates of JEV. The virus also shared close homology with viruses involved in JE outbreaks among humans in Uttar Pradesh Three different species of bats (Pteropus, Rousettus and Pipistrelle) were captured from their roosting sites in and around Bareilly. The fruit bats roosted on big trees and old abandoned buildings. Tissue specimens from Pipistrelle species were found positive for West Nile and Kyasanur Forest Disease viruses and an unknown influenza virus by RT-PCR and sequencing.