 Irrigation: For swift and undisturbed rooting, ensure that the soil contains adequate moisture before planting Lilium bulbs. Hence, it is advisable to water the field a few days before planting, ensuring the bulbs are properly inserted into the soil. When there is ample moisture during planting, minimal watering is necessary until the plants begin to emerge. Planting time and method: In the plains of North- India, Liliums were planted in winter, specifically in November and December. In hilly regions, it is done from November onwards. The planting time can vary according to the specific climate and altitude of the selected location. The planting method is also contingent on factors like the selected site, soil type, prevailing climatic conditions and the irrigation system. Based on the prevailing conditions, Lilium can be planted either in raised or flat beds and ridges. For light soils like sandy and sandy loams, it is recommended to plant in ridges or on 1-meter-wide raised beds. In hilly regions experiencing high rainfall at the time of crop season, it is advisable to plant in raised beds and ridges. This facilitates efficient drainage and helps in securing the anchor of the plants. Bulb size: The size of the planted bulb determines the quality of the lilium flowers. A larger size bulb results in taller and more robust plants, showcasing consistent flowering and yielding heavier blooms compared to that of the smaller bulbs. For Asiatic and LA lilies, commercial-sized bulbs have a circumference of 12-18 cm. However, for Oriental lilies, it is suggested to plant bulbs with a circumference of 14-22 cm for high-quality flowers. Planting density: Planting density of lilium varies from type-to-type of lilium, cultivars and bulb size. Lilium planting density is also influenced by the planting time. When the bulbs are 14-16 cm diameter, bulbs are planted at spacing 15 × 15 cm row-to-row and bulb-to-bulb and about, 40-50 bulbs were planted per m2 of net cultivated area. Depth of the planting: The planting depth of a bulb in the soil primarily hinges on factors such as the bulb’s size, soil type, and the planting time. By considering these aspects and the intended purpose of the planting, bulbs and bulblets can be sown at a depth ranging from 4-12 cm. It is recommended to plant a bulb, ensuring a soil layer covering of 4-10 cm. Dormancy of bulbs: Following bulb harvesting, bulbs will not sprout, if sown immediately, as the bulbs require a dormancy of 45-60 days. The dormancy period varies among cultivars and growing conditions. Storing the bulbs in cold storage is a method to break this dormancy. For the swift emergence of shoots and flowering, lilies necessitate a cold treatment for a minimum of 10-14 weeks at temperatures of 20-4°C before planting. When receiving frozen bulbs from a planting material supplier, it is advisable to thaw the bulbs gradually at temperatures between 7-13°C over a period of 1-3 days.