 Further, for situations where certain experimental units are not available, two part structurally incomplete designs are obtained. Rotatable mixed-level response surface designs: Under response surface model for mixed level factors of the form 2n×3, where experimental units experience the overlap effects from immediate left and right neighbouring unit’s conditions have been derived for the orthogonal estimation of the parameters. A method of constructing rotatable mixed-level response surface designs of the form 2n×3 has been proposed. The method has been extended to the case of mixed-level rotatable designs of the form 2n×3n. Further the work has been extended to s1 n 1 × s2 n 2. Resolvable PBIB designs for multi-site varietal trials: Method of construction for a class of resolvable PBIB designs suitable for multi-site varietal trials has been developed and is based on newly defined four-associate class association scheme named as Dichotomized Split- Set (DiSS) association scheme. Trend resistant balanced bipartite block designs (BBPB): Methods of construction for trend resistant designs are developed that are useful when the interest of the experimenter is in making comparisons between two disjoint sets of treatments, in the presence of systematic trend within a block. Rescaling bootstrap technique for variance estimation in dual frame surveys: Multiple frames (MF) are preferably used when it is difficult to obtain a single sampling frame that covers the whole population. Dual frame (DF) surveys are a special case of MF surveys considering two frames covering the entire population. Unbiased variance estimation for estimation of various population parameters is difficult and complicated for multiple frame surveys as compared to sample from single frame. Therefore, three different rescaled unbiased variance estimation procedures for estimation of variance of population total unbiasedly under different cases of dual frame surveys namely, (i) Stratified Rescaling Bootstrap with Known Domain size (StRBKD), (ii) Post-stratified Rescaling Bootstrap with Known Domain size (PstRBKD) and (iii) Post- stratified Rescaling Bootstrap with Unknown Domain size (PstRBUD) methods have been developed. R-Packages: Developed following 10 R-Packages (basically open-source programming codes that can be used by common users for performing specific statistical computations/procedures): Polycross Designs: This package contains a function named PD which generates nine types of polycross designs suitable for various experimental situations. (https://CRAN.R-project.org/package= Polycross Desi- gns) PBt Designs: Partially Balanced t-Designs (https:// cran.r-project.org/package=PBtDesigns) Mixed Level RSDs: Mixed Level Response Surface Designs. (https://cran.r-project.org/web/packages/ MixedLevelRSDs/index.html) GETdesigns: Generalized Extended Triangular Designs. (https://CRAN.R-project.