 After 15 to 20 days, the chilgoza cones are cut open using the sharp edged axe (behla); with a gentle strike the seeds are easily separated due to the maintenance of desired temperature and humidity inside the heap (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1991) 4 Wall hive It is a cavity left in the wall when the house is under construction at a height of 150 cm from the floor in kitchens, store rooms, living rooms and sheds. The hive has an entrance hole of about 2cm diameter towards the outside, while inside it is covered usually with a plank of wood plastered with mud. The wall hive is opened only to harvest honey and never otherwise. A swarm of Apis cerana descends naturally and settles in this hive making parallel combs because of its habits of nesting in natural darkness and protected cavities It provides relatively constant temperature due to the human and animal habitation of the farm house and also the microclimate inside the hive is not easily influenced by sudden outside changes and so the bees have to spend less energy towards temperature regulation that enhances the honey harvest (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 292 FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 Straw hives Straw hives are made of locally available materials like rice straw, locally made strings for tying straw, strips of waste wood and wood for making frames. The rice straw fibres are tied into 5cm thick sheets with the help of strings and wooden strips and joined to form a brood chamber in accordance with the standard for Apis cerana frame hive. A hollow raised of bamboo is placed to provide entrance to bees. The top cover is made in the form of a sloping roof from straw of sarcanda grass held in place with sticks to drain off water. Care has to be taken to ensure that no crevices are left, no loose straw should project into the brood chamber as it would interfere with bee activity. This hive is suitable for temperate regions as its management during peak winter is quite easy and internal temperature is not quickly influenced by changes in temperature. Therefore, the bees have to spend less energy in temperature regulation and enhance the honey harvesting (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 Orchard hive The orchard hives are made of locally available materials, viz. stones available on field, clay, chopped wheat straw, sarkanda grass and wood for making frames. A platform of stones plastered with mud is made at a south-east direction of the orchard with the brood chamber of standard size for Apis cerana is made on it and entrance hole of 1.5 cm diameter is provided for the easy movement of the bees. The top cover is made from the sarkanda grass tied with string and supported with strips of wood as a sloping roof to drain off water. This structure ensures better temperature regulation and so enable its suitability to temperate regions and also offers protection from wild animals.