 For further interaction, please write to: Rajender Kumar, Department of Horticulture, GBPUA&T, Pantnagar 263 145, Uttarakhand. *Corresponding author e-mail: rajenderkumargbpuat@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 14 Parmeshwar L. Saran* and Hiteksha I. Damor Morphogenetic diversity in DBM-4 accession of jal brahmi Successful restoration of overexploited species depends upon variability, conservation and cultivation. Elite accessions were characterized for quantitative and qualitative traits for sustainable cultivation and industrial uses. The evaluated accessions were having sufficient variability in morphology, herbage yield and chemical content. The accession DBM-5 was showing maximum dry herbage yield (19.88 t h-1y-1) and DBM-4 rich in bacoside-A3 and bacopaside-II. Overall, economic and/or industrial yield was found maximum in accessions DBM-4, therefore, they may be further used in crop improvement program as valuable selection. Research M ORPHOLOGICAL variation in vegetative traits is a key determinant in unraveling phenotypic diversity of any plant population. Diversity in plant genetic resource provides opportunity for breeders to develop new and improved cultivars with desirable characteristics, which include both farmer-preferred traits (yield potential), and very important consumer preferred traits (superior quality). In addition to this, characterization of herbage morphology is a classical approach which is well suited for analysis of genetic diversity in regards of plant resources conservation and utilization. Herbal medications are receiving widespread acclaim globally in more than 80% of the world population, due to their higher biosafety profile over the allopathic or synthetic medications. Medicinal plant like jal brahmi utilization and conservation have allured global attention due to their overexploitation these days. The increasing demand has placed B. monnieri as the second most priority species among the most important Indian medicinal plants and is identified among the seven important medicinal plants recommended for immediate attention and included in the list of highly endangered medicinal plants of India by NMPB and Technology Information Forecasting and Assessment Council (TIFSAC), Department of Science and Technology, GOI, India. Bacopa monnieri (L.) Penn. commonly known as ‘Neera- Brahmi’ of family Scrophulariaceae is a perennial, prostrate and creeping herb which is identified in habitat including wetlands and muddy shores. Jal brahmi, a nootropic herb being used as a promising agent in modern Ayurveda system owing to its antioxidant, cholinergic, anti-beta amyloid property; also, has been used as a traditional Ayurvedic medicine to enhance memory and to prepare popular ayurvedic preparations like ‘Brahmirasayanam’ and ‘Brahmighritam’. Bacoside A is the major active compounds of jal brahmi. The diversity of different B. monnieri accessions collected from different parts of country were evaluated for horticultural traits.