 The terminal drought years may badly affect on the productivity of cotton but farmers can get assured yeilds of greengram or sorghum (Haryana; Vidharba, Maharashtra). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 32 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 64 Traditional crop production systems (i) In the uplands of the gangetic plains in Nadia and Murshidabad districts of West Bengal, farmers often grow aus rice in mixture with pigeonpea. (ii) Rainfed upland rice intercropped with legumes reduced 46-54% weed population in rice, followed by oilseed crops (10–25%). (iii) A suitable intercropping in poly-crop systems will reduce the pest incidence or minimize the risk involved in monoculture as observed in Sabarkantha district of Gujarat (iv) Growing of cucurbits/jatropa in castor fields minimises the incidence of semilooper on castor. (v) Raising pigeonpea on bunds of upland paddy fields enriches soil fertility and enhances total productivity. Rao et al. (2002) 65 Spread, adaptability, merits and demerits A survey was conducted in 5 tribal dominated villages, viz., Karnada, Kilakia, Katimahan, of traditional mixed/Rupagaon and Nedipadar-Kerengali of intercropping systems Kandhamal district of Orrisa to study the mixed/ in tribal belt of Orissa intercropping systems practiced under rainfed upland conditions, analyse merits and demerits of each system and find out thrust areas of research to augment productivity. A total 100 farmers, 20 from each village, were thoroughly interviewed. A total of 42 systems comprising of 17 upland rice-based, 10 maize-based, 6 pigeonpea- based, 5 turmeric-based, 3 groundnut-based and 1 fingermillet- based were noted. The respective percentage area under these systems were 51, 28, 11, 6, 3 and 1%, respectively. The farmers established these systems either by sowing/ planting wide spaced/large seeded crops behind the plough or broadcasting closely spaced/small seeded crops. These systems provided insurance against total failure of a susceptible crop during drought years. The productivity of the systems was low due to use of local genotypes, improper crop combination and crop geometry and no use of fertilizers (Orissa). Behera et al. (2002) 66 Hay/dry grass storage techniques in fields The grass is cut after the dew has evaporated and swaths are left in the form of bundles (poola) to dry in the field itself by different methods so that its green colour and leaf characters are retained. After drying the grass it is stored either in a circular or elongated form as per the quantity. The base is first constructed Verma (1998) 33 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference with stones arranged in a circle. The first layer consists of poor quality grass or thorny bushes. The bundles of grasses are then so arranged and placed that their weight completely falls on another, while maintaining the circular or elongated shape.