 The centrality of the small farm development to address targets and growth to achieve the SDGs is undeniable. Nine of the 17 SDGs, pertaining to poverty eradication (SDG 1 and SDG 8), hunger and nutrition (SDG 1 and SDG 3), social emancipation and inequality (SDG 5 and SDG 10) and the environment (SDG 12, SDG 13 and SDG 15), are directly linked to the sector. Smallholders and sustainable agriculture can be the winners. And yet the inter- linkages, the trade-offs and their consequences are largely under-explored due to lack of policy coordination, low prioritization and poor investments in research and development. The current food systems of the world constitute production, processing, distribution, consumption and disposal of food. Consumers, distributors, manufactures and service sector are increasingly shaping food systems. Strengthening the interconnectivity between the various elements of agri-food systems, the sectors and their ecosystems in a sustainable manner can transform agri- food systems. Sustainability challenges of the current food system webs include complex inter-linked drivers with many trade-offs; scarcity and degradation of natural resources land, water, soil and biodiversity; market concentration of food and agricultural input and output challenge resilience and equitability. Rural and urban poverty is due to the distribution not due to the production. Linking small farms to urban food value chains can be promising in reducing rural poverty. Measuring productivity and income of the small-scale food producers is critical in tracking SDG 2, zero hunger. With the inclusive policies such as input subsidies, marginal support price and public storage, extended research on the climate smart agriculture, investments from public and private sectors, re-shaping education, short chain supply and good practices have increased positive impact in smallholders’ income. Investment in rural market infrastructure allows smallholders to commercialise and enhance supply of perishable products. One needs to focus on a food systems’ perspective and encourage diversification with nutrition-rich legumes, pulses, horticulture crops and livestock. Invest- ment in the rural market infrastructure would allow small holders to commer- cialize and enhance the supply of perishable products. Linking small farms to urban food value chains would also be a promising new venture for rural poverty reduction. Major improvements in agricultural productivity of the recent decades have come with social and environmental costs. 35 Sustainable Agriculture Policies on education, innovations and investments should cater to the needs of smallholders who are the backbone of agriculture for diversification, income generation and prosperity. So, there is an urgent need to ensure reorientation of on-going efforts toward higher efficiency and effectiveness of various initiatives by developing a road map to achieve the goals well before 2030.