 Frontier for return maximization and risk minimization 2.4.1. Mean-variance and mean-conditional value at risk (CVaR) optimization models We assume a whole farm setup in which the farmer has the objective of maximizing whole farm profits at minimum risk by planting an optimal combination of cropping system and tillage practices. Thus, the total portfolio consists of different CA-patterns, each represented by a specific share. This farmer optimization is achieved using a mean- variance quadratic optimization model. Consider a farmer who selects an optimal mix (shares=α) of CA-crop pattern by minimizing the risk (portfolio variance) subject to constraints of target yield (return), and each combination of CA-pattern should have positive share and sum being 1 (sum of shares and non-negativity of shares) (Sukcharoen and Leatham, 2016). By carefully selecting the optimal crop mix that mini­ mizes risk while adhering to the yield constraint and ensuring positive shares, the farmer can achieve a balanced and efficient portfolio that maximizes productivity and stability. The details of modelling approach are explained below: min α1,…,αn ∑ i ∑ jαiαjσij (1) Subject to: ∑ iαiyi = λ (2) ∑ iαi = 1 (3) αi ≥0 for all i (4) where σij is covariance of yields (or net returns) for the treatments i and j, yi is yield mean of treatment i, α: share of land that should be allocated to the treatment and λ is the target yield. The constraint equation ∑ iαi = 1 restricts the shares of farmers or land allocated to each tillage and cropping system combination to add up to 1. The final constraint is the non-negativity constraint (i.e., shares can only be positive). The results from the quadratic optimization model are optimal shares of each cropping system/crop-tillage combination. The mean-variance approach is however criticized for assuming that farmers are equally concerned with upside risk as downside risk, that the returns distribu­ tion is normally distributed, and that farmers have quadratic utility functions. The criticisms on the latter assumptions are however con­ tested and disputed in Markowitz (2014). Nonetheless, to address these potential challenges, we also use a mean-conditional value at risk (CVaR) which according to Sukcharoen and Leatham (2016) is appro­ priate for non-normal data. Using the notation above, we solve the mean-conditional value at risk (CVaR) model (Sukcharoen and Leatham, 2016), min α1,…,αnESβ = −E [∑ iαiyi| ∑ iαiyi ≤q ] (5) Subject to: ∑ iαiyi = λ (6) ∑ iαi = 1 (7) αi ≥0 for all i (8) where ESβ is the expected short fall, q is the βth percentile of the yield distribution (Pr(Y ≤q) = β) assumed to be 10 % in this paper following Sukcharoen and Leatham (2016). We also conducted sensitivity analyses of this percentile by assuming 20 %, 5 % and 1 % and the result did not differ significantly (Supplementary figure B1, B2, and B3).