 Also, fertilizer-N use was significantly higher with elevation of both CO2 and temperature than ambient environment. This implies increasing role of fertilizer-N under the future climate conditions. Significantly higher nutrient removal from soil under elevated CO2 or under co-elevation of both CO2 and temperature calls for revisiting the fertilizer recommendations for major crops in dominant agro-ecologies of the country. CO2 fertilization benefit is N-dependent implying that application of N significantly alters the level of CO2 response. Carbon dioxide elevation enhances use efficiency of applied fertilizer-N. Significantly higher N removal and trend of declining soil mineral N content under elevated CO2 indicates possible N mining and thus N limitations may constrain the long- term plant response to CO2 elevation. The post-harvest mineral N content in the surface soil showed a gradual decline under CO2 elevation treatment. Carbon dioxide elevation significantly enhances profile water storage and water use efficiency (WUE) in soybean and wheat and the benefits in water savings are mostly due to reduced soil Biofilter Prototypes Wheat crop phenology for different growth stages under recommended fertilizer dose (OF:Open field; AC : Ambient chamber; eC: Elevated CO 2, eCeT: Elevation of both CO 2 and temperature; eT:Elevated temperature) Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 46 evaporation caused by better canopy and ground cover. The significant reduction in dry gluten content in wheat grain indicated that the protein synthesized is not stored as storage protein i.e. gluten. Different protein synthesized might be involved to sustain the metabolic changes during changed environmental conditions, which may not be stored. Increase in Trypsin inhibitor in soybean grain under changed environmental condition might be regulating the breakdown of protein. Less availability of phosphorus could be one of the reasons for decreased phytic acid in soybean. Genetic analyses of guggul for the identification of genes governing adventive embryony: The genome of guggul was sequenced, assembled and the transcriptome from different tissues both sexual and apomictic guggul (Commiphora wightii) plants which includes ovules, leaf and fruit wall tissue were annotated. Analysis of the assembled contigs reveals that most of the transcripts show very high similarity to apomictic genes from other species. Differentially expressed genes were identified with RNA-Seq by Expectation- Maximization (RSEM), abundance estimation and edge-R analysis. Only 265 transcripts showed expression restricted to the apomictic plants. Stock characterization, captive breeding, seed production and culture of hilsa (Tenualosa ilisha)- Phase I: Hilsa was successfully bred with 98% fertilization. The eggs were incubated in the laboratory in glass aquaria using filtered pond water. Larvae were reared in outdoor FRP tanks.