 • Promoting Extended Faculty: The Council promoted the strengthening of the present collaboration and partnership by mooting the concept of extended faculty nationally and globally so that existing faculty of any AU could be supplemented and the benefit be derived from teachers/experts available outside the AU. Council has provided specific catalytic support for faculty exchange and also for facilitating (i) guest lectures, (ii) guest faculty, and (iii) adjunct faculty, however, most AUs could not implement it due to shortage of funds. 2.11. Technology issues Not applicable as the project’s focus is on educational improvements. 2.12. Management arrangements 2.12.1. Project Management and Implementation The Project management control will rest with the Secretary DARE and DG ICAR. Coordination and facilitation of project activities will be located in the Education Division with DDG Education as the National Coordinator of the Project. For overall implementation and periodic monitoring and evaluation, a Project Director will be appointed through selection/deployment who will be assisted by the four National Coordinators. A Project Monitoring Committee 25 and Project Implementation Unit will be set up. While Secretary, DARE and DG ICAR will head PMC, PIU will be steered by DDG Education. Details on other support staff will be worked out separately and appropriate budgetary provisions will be made to cover the establishment cost and other charges. Each of the participating SAU and DU will set up a Project Cell. While the overall control of the project components will rest with the VC/Director, activities of Project Cells will be managed by an identified Nodal Officer. 2.12.2. Selection criteria for SAU/DUs The project envisages improving the quality of agricultural education in the country which is imparted primarily by SAUs, CAU, DUs, and CUs with Agriculture faculty, These will be the natural partners in the project. The systemic reforms will be across all AUs while the institutional development activities will be limited to 50% of AUs based on the selection criteria and guidelines. While all the four ICAR DUs (IARI, IVRI, NDRI and CIFE) will be included for participation, a minimum selection criterion will be imposed to identify the SAUs. Only those SAUs and CUs, which conform to or agree to conform to the following conditions will be included: i. Have assured grant for salary and other establishment charges including State government’s commitment for a minimum of 15% of establishment charges as non-salary support, and smooth flow of funds on a timely quarterly basis. ii. Have been Accredited by ICAR and implemented suggestions for improvement of education and research. iii. Adhere to the ICAR Model Act (2009). iv. Enjoy administrative/financial autonomy. v. Commit to introduce suggested academic, financial, organization and management reforms and their continuance after termination of the project. vi.