 Another milestone in this cooperation is the `Seeds without Borders’ initiative, a multiparty agreement between Cambodia, India, Bangladesh, Nepal, Myanmar, Sri Lanka, Thailand, Laos and Vietnam. This agreement has been expanded to include Bhutan last year and now covers five of the eight SAARC member nations. In India, this initiative is facilitated by ICAR and in the SAARC region, it is by ICRISAT and IRRI. In recognition to the significant contributions of India for agricultural growth and development in the SAARC region, ICAR was conferred a Certificate of Appreciation that was handed over in person by the Director of SAARC Agriculture Centre to the Director General of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research on 20th August, 2018 in New Delhi. Gracing the SAARC Charter Day on the 8th December, 2019 in Dhaka, the Director General, ICAR gave a Keynote Address on `Agricultural Research for food and nutritional security in South Asia, where he elaborated on the regional challenges, India’s experiences and success stories and opportunities for enhanced collaboration and cooperation among the SAARC member states. SAARC Certificate of Appreciation to ICAR Secretary, DARE in SAARC Charter day 11 India-ASEAN Collaboration India-ASEAN countries have 25 years of international cooperation. The Govt. of India has entrusted the working relationships on agriculture and forestry sector to the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE). In agriculture and agroforestry sectors, we are cooperating with ASEAN by way of agreed projects such as Exchange of Farmers, ASEAN-India Fellowships for Higher Agricultural Education in India and ASEAN, Exchange of Agriculture Scientists, Empowerment of Women through Cooperatives, Training Course on Organic Certification for Fruits and Vegetables etc. These were further strengthened at the 4th ASEAN-India Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture held in January 2018 at New Delhi, with the endorsement of the Medium-Term Plan of Action for ASEAN-India Cooperation in Agriculture and Forestry for 2016–2020. In the S&T field, we have projects such as ASEAN-India S&T Digital Library, ASEAN-India Virtual Institute for Intellectual Property, ASEAN-India Collaborative R&D Project on Mariculture, Bio-mining and Bioremediation Technologies etc. DARE has consistently facilitated the working relations between India and ASEAN countries by enabling their visits, expert meetings and through regular participation in the Working Group and the Ministerial meetings. The 5th ASEAN-India Ministerial Meeting on Agriculture and Forestry that was held at Brunei Darussalam during 15-18 October, 2019 was attended by Hon’ble Minister of State, Shri Kailash Choudhary. The approved India-ASEAN Plan of Action 2016-2020 is currently under implementation and several training programmes have been specially designed to benefit the ASEAN Member States. Shri Kailash Choudhary, Minister of State for Agriculture & Farmers’ Welfare, Govt.