 Therefore, agricultural activities play a crucial role in determining the spatial and temporal variations of CO2 concentration over India, which is also influenced by the lighter and finer operations carried out in the soil, between sowing and harvesting (intercultural operations/activities) during the growing season. 3.2. Agro management mediated variations in carbon dioxide We have used NDVI, NPP and NEE as proxy to examine spatial and temporal changes in the terrestrial ecosystem productivity directly influenced by atmospheric CO2 (Clark et al., 2001; Kramer et al., 2002). The agricultural activities in India are releasing a large amount of carbon into the atmosphere, which influences these proxies over time. Therefore, to determine the role of intercultural activities on atmospheric CO2 and to visualize associated changes in NDVI and NPP, we present this agro-management (semi-annual) analysis of CO2 concentration over India for the period 2009–2020 (Fig. 4). We divide the whole year into two periods based on the agricultural management practices: management intensive period (July–December) and management non-intensive period (January–June). The seasonal changes in NEE were strongly 8 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al. Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 Fig. 4. Agro management (semi-annual) distribution of atmospheric carbon dioxide, NDVI (Normalized Difference Vegetation Index) and NPP (Net Primary Productivity, 2009–2016) in India from 2009 to 2020. Net stock change (C) over cropland organic soils from 2009 to 2019 in India. regulated by soil moisture. Therefore, we present the NEE with the soil moisture and land surface temperature (Figure S2) for management intensive period and management non-intensive period in India. The period from January to June generally does not experience any opening of soil at mass scale through tillage except summer ploughing at some places. However, the period from July to December witnesses the opening up of soil several times during sowing and intercultural operations for the major agricultural seasons of rabi and kharif. Apart from this, the soil moisture is quite high during the management intensive period, and the land surface temperature is low (Singh et al., 2021). These conditions provide the opportunity for methanogenesis rather than the oxidation of soil organic carbon (SOC) stock. However, our analysis shows 9 A. Singh, K. Abbhishek, J. Kuttippurath et al. Environmental Technology & Innovation 27 (2022) 102498 Fig. 5. The Inter-annual variations of GOSAT carbon dioxide and ODIAC CO2 emissions at different regions of India [Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP), Peninsular India (PI), North-West (NWI), Central India (CEI), North-East India (NEI) and Hilly (HIL), as illustrated in Figure S1] from 2009 to 2020. that even organically managed soils are showing an overall decrease in the net stock of carbon (Fig.