 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 203 l The farmwomen were immensely benefited with the interventions like rearing Rhode Island Red (RIR) and Nandanam poultry birds in backyard, and preparation of pickle from locally available fish and prawn for value addition and income generation at Chennai. l Another successful intervention was the assessment of freshwater aquaculture in the community ponds by introducing catla, rohu and mrigala in the ratio of 20 : 70 : 10 respectively. Net returns were increased from Rs 18, 000 to Rs 37,440. Arid Agro-ecosystem l In mustard, adoption of variety Bio 902 resulted in 43.38% increase in yield over the local. The addition of 1 tonne neem-cake/ha along with 20 kg S/ha further enhanced yield 29.7%. l Seed treatment of pearl millet with Apron (Metalaxyl) + Mancozeb (Dithane M-45) decreased the downy mildew incidence by 26% and with Trichoderma by 18%. l Licking of multi-nutrient block (MNB) by cattle and buffaloes resulted increased food uptake (16.7%), showing higher milk yield and body weight gain. The daily milk yield increased by 1.5–2.5 litres/animal/day. l Dry matter and water intake of cattle and buffaloes increased by 20–25% when fed with urea-enriched fodder. l Supplementing the feed of sheep and goat with mineral mixture @ 5–10 g/ animal/day increased their grazing period by 20% and as a result increased milk yield by 19.2% and wool yield by 18%. Hill and Mountain Agro-ecosystem l Application of Borax @ 2 kg + ammonium molybdate @ 120 g as soil application and foliar spray of boric acid @ 0.1% + ammonium molybdate @ 0.05% in cauliflower seed production plots doubled the farmer’s income. l Cowpea as a cover crop in exposed terrace ridges of rice field checked soil erosion considerably at Kalimpong. l Integrated Plant Nutrient System (IPNS) in orange orchard increased the fruit yield by about 150% at Kalimpong. l To reduce drudgery of women, manual paddy thresher was introduced which saved 200% time over manual threshing of paddy at Srinagar. l Introduction of income-generating interventions like bee-keeping and button mushroom cultivation have made significant impact and more landless villagers are coming forward to take it up. INNOVATIONS IN TECHNOLOGY DISSEMINATION: ICAR COMPONENT The Innovations in Technology Dissemination–ICAR Component, having four sub- projects, has made significant contribution in terms of empowerment of farmers and stakeholders, on-farm trials, preparation of extension literature both in printed and electronic form and distribution/sale of quality agro-inputs and planting materials. l To empower the farmers, rural women, unemployed youths and other stakeholders, 1,367 innovative training programmes based on their needs were organized, benefiting 33,342 farmers. l To enhance the extension delivery system, 287 training programmes were organized in which 6,753 extension personnel participated.