 Rural sociology presents a scientific picture of rural life. Extension workers work with farmers very closely in their settings for which their understanding of rural background and farmers’ psychology is very essential. Extension professionals should have necessary knowledge of the precise approaches and methods of dealing with farmers. Rural sociology can help professionals in organizing the rural structure in a constructive manner. This textbook consists of fundamental facts of rural sociology. The book has twenty two chapters covering both rural sociology and educational psychology out of which twelve chapters consist of rural sociology and ten chapters deal with educational psychology. In this text book, emphasis has been given on various aspects of educational psychology also. It provides all the relevant information in the field of rural sociology with special emphasis on Indian culture, merits and demerits of Indian rural societies, the stressful conditions under which farmers live and work. The book will be a good basis of information reference for agriculture students, psychology students besides extension practitioners, research scientists, KVKs and agricultural colleges. Textbook on Fundamentals of Rural Sociology and Educational Psychology TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-viii + 252 • Price : ` 450 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-181-9 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2020 30 Nurturing Entrepreneurial Ecosystem through Agri-Business Incubation Activities in Livestock Sector R P Singh, Bablu Kumar and S K Singh ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Uttar Pradesh 243 122 Agri-business Incubation (ABI) centre at ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar is mandated to create an ecosystem for entrepreneurship development in diverse areas of Animal Science Sector. Entrepreneurship development training programmes (EDPs), Incubation facilities and further follow to create complete value chain is the main focus of ABI at this Institute. Key words: Agri-business Incubation, Pig-farming, Udyog Aadhar Indian Farming 70(01): 30–32; January 2020 I CAR-INDIAN Veterinary Research Institute Agri-business incubation (ABI) centre is involved in conducting a series of “Entrepreneurship and Skill Development Programmes (EDPs)” with the support of competent resource persons of the Institute, experts from aligned department and successful entrepreneurs. These include EDPs on pig production, quality meat production, meat processing and value addition, frozen semen production, dairy farming and milk processing, vermiculture technologies, animal feed technology, cell culture techniques, virus handling techniques etc.