 India presented its initiatives on one health and climate resilient and resilient agri-food systems. 4.5. BRICS agricultural collaboration Since its formulation in 2009, India has been actively engaged to give a shape to this multilateral organization. India organized BRICS expert consultation on climate smart agriculture in 2012 and proposed BRICS Agriculture Centre was by India. In 2013, India presented its experiences on climate smart technologies in the seminar on Climate Smart Agriculture organised by South Africa. In 2015, establishing a virtual Agricultural Research Platform (ARP) was agreed by the Expert Committee. The secretariat of BRICS-ARP was decided to be established at New Delhi under the governance of DARE. On 16th October, 2016, the Member Nations signed the MoU for establishment of BRICS-ARP. The ex- post-facto approval of the Cabinet of Government of India was given on 2nd August, 2017. The BRICS-ARP conceived to serve as global platform through science led agriculture for sustainable and resilient agri-food system addressing the hunger, malnutrition, poverty and inequality between farmers’ and non-farmers’ income. It shall facilitate enhancing agricultural trade, bio-security and climate resilient agriculture. India hosted BRICS Agriculture Expert and BRICS Agriculture Minister Meeting being the BRICS Chair for 2021. The BRICS-ARP with the domain name of http://barp.org was made operational on 27 August, 2021 with its announcement by the Hon’ble Agriculture Minister. The BRICS Agriculture Action Plan for 2021-24 focusing on agri value chains, agrobiodiversity for nutrition, climate change management for resilient agri-food systems, digital agricultural solutions, One Health approach and trade development was adopted under the BRICS with India’s Chairmanship on 27 August, 2021. 5. India’s foot-prints in neighborhood 5.1. Afghanistan The Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University (ANASTU) in Kandahar is being established with the support of the Ministry of External Affairs (MEA), Government of India through a bilateral cooperation programme and ICAR has been providing all technical and institutional support to establish the University as well training the Afghan researchers and students. The MoU between ICAR and ANASTU was signed on April 21, 2016 to this effect. Under the Indian-Afghanistan Fellowship program, during 2016-2019, total 187 students were enrolled for UG, PG and Ph D courses (Table 5). The ICAR-IARI has been assisting the ANASTU in establishing the laboratories and devising 373 International and National Collaborations the course curricula for Master’s in Agriculture programme. The capacity building of the faculty of ANASTU in advanced research and technologies of agriculture has been put in place by ICAR. Table 5.