 Diversified millets and allied farming interventions like improved millet production technologies, dairy farming and bee keeping were found to be profitable. One android app, “Millet Market” was developed for facilitating marketing of millets and to provide advisory on improved millets. Identification of Unique Signatures of selective sweeps in indigenous dairy cattle breeds: About 82 samples of Sahiwal cattle were genotyped using by ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 157 Artificial Intelligence and IoT based Smart Vet Ecosystem for animal health, patient care and precision livestock farming Developed the prototypes of Electronic Health Records for Animals (eHRA) and Electronic Veterinary Medical Records (eVMR). Health and Medical Data Architecture Modules and data panels were developed. QR Code based “Smart Contact” interface developed and tested for animal owner’s usage and was successful with 60 to 75% adoption by animal owners. For Animal Medical Data Capture, five Medical Information Management Systems were developed and tested. E-vaccination records were evolved and tested for animal owner’s usage. “IoT Integrator” for conventional milk testers was developed and further trials commenced for IoT enabled remote quality assessment and monitoring of milk. The conventional milk testers were successfully integrated with the IoT system, for remote testing and monitoring of milk quality. An APP has been built to act as an interface between testing unit and collection units for reading, transferring and analysing parameters of milk from collection units to research teams. AI tools development works involving prediction of body size measurements, extraction, and quantitative analysis using sheep and goats images with deep learning protocols, were initiated. Face and muzzle point images of 3 breeds- namely Sahiwal, Tharparkar, Vrindavani were collected. About 3,000 images of muzzle and face were collected. Images were analysed through a Hybrid Model of Residual Attention Network and Multi-Scale Context Aware Network. The model is being utilised further for classification of animals using digital images and with a plan to use similar model for classification of other breeds and other species. Development of Diagnostic kits for detection of Covid-19 infection in animals SARS-CoV-2 can infect multiple animal species including pet (dogs and cats) and wild animals (tiger, lion, minks and ferrets). To detect SARS-CoV-2 antigen in animals, a RPA-CRISPR based point-of-care kit ‘SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit’ has been developed for detection of SARS-CoV-2 antigen in clinical samples. The test can be performed within 1 h using a thermal block and results can be obtained using lateral flow strips. The kit is being validated using clinical samples. Further, to detect SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in pet animals (dogs and cats), an indirect ELISA kit ‘SARS-CoV-2 Antibody detection ELISA Kit’ has been developed. The kit is being validated using dog and cat sera.