 Small spines arise along the edges of stems at each node. Numerous lateral branches arise from the stems which require strong support. Flower bud initiation from suppressed buds at the base of spines (areola). Centre of origin of Kamalam fruit is Central America. It was brought by settlers to southeast Asian regions like Vietnam, Cambodia, Thailand, Taiwan, Philippines and subsequently to all parts of the Asian Countries including China. In India, this fruit was introduced during the 90s and is cultivated in some southern and northeastern states of India. This super fruit is rich in minerals, vitamins and antioxidants. Hermaphrodite flowers bloom at night at around 7-9 PM and during this time hand pollination is done for higher fruit sets as flowers are pin type heterostyly (long-styled) in nature. Fruits are oblong – oval and non-climacteric, deep green when unripe and turn to reddish pink when ripe. Kamalam fruit plants will show damage symptoms at temperatures below 0°C, and also above 40-45°C as they were originally adapted to shade canopy environments. Planting Materials: Rooted cuttings raised from one-year-old stems (15-25 cm long). Stem cuttings are collected from July to October and planted in polybags in the net house. Rooting takes place in one month and these cuttings are ready for planting after 4-6 months. Cost of plants is ₹ 50-80. Planting Time is June to August. Varieties: Red skin red flesh (Hylocereus costaricensis), Red skin white flesh (Hylocereus undatus), and Yellow skin white flesh (Hylocereus megalanthus). Planting System Spacing: 2 × 2 or 3 × 3 m (Plant to plant and Row to Row). However, may vary depending upon the intercropping plan. Spacing 3 × 3 m or more is suitable for intercropping. Support Poles: Concrete poles or even angle iron poles may be used. Pole dimension: 7′height and 4-6′ thickness. Poles are fixed at 2 × 2 m spacing and 1 ft is Indian Horticulture 18 cannot uptake a sufficient quantity of nutrients at a time. Major part of fertilizers is lost by leaching or washed out by surface runoff during heavy rainfall. Therefore, an INM schedule has been standardized where manures and fertilizers are applied at specific growth stages of plants to maximize uptake and minimize nutrient loss. VAM and Azotobacter @ 50 g/plant each are applied at each hole at the time of planting. Intercropping: Winter: French bean and green peas Summer: Cowpeas, Amaranthus and marigold Any other suitable crops may be selected which are seasonal, shallow-rooted, not vigorous in growth and should not compete for space and nutrition with Kamalam fruit plants. Irrigation: Kamalam fruit being a xerophytic plant has low water demand. Crassulacean acid metabolism (CAM) mode of photosynthesis restricts water loss via transpiration during the heat of the day. However, irrigation during dry spells @ 1.5-2.0 L water/day through drip system is essential for better plant growth and fruit production.