 Over the past ten years, the exports of jute and jute products have grown at an annual compound growth rate of 0.7%. The share of JDPs in exports has increased during the last five years, while share of jute yarn and hessian has declined. India has a great export potential as the demand for natural fibre is increasing. There is a need to improve production and fibre quality along with promotion of high-end value-added products. Jute retting process has a vital role in producing quality jute fibre and ensuring better prices to farmers. The traditional retting technology causes severe pollution from anaerobic bacteria fermentation, putrid odour, pollution with higher cost. It requires large volumes of water which is constraint at farmer’s level. Low volume water retting technologies NINFET-Sathi (an improved retting accelerator) and CRIJAF-Sona, (microbial consortium) developed reduce retting time by 6-8 days and water requirement by 50%; and improve quality of fibres by 1-2 grades and productivity by 10-12% besides reducing labour cost and enhance jute farmers’ income. Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 299 The moisture regain during procurement is prescribed by JCI between 16-20%. ICAR- NINFET has developed digital moisture meter and digital instruments like semi/automatic bundle strength tester, digital fineness meter and digital colour and lustre meter which provide accurate and reliable results in recent years. Now-a-days JDPs have received greater attention in domestic and international market. ICAR has made significant contributions towards the development of fine yarn with reduced hairiness, ornamental yarns, and blended yarns, bleached and dyed yarns, decorative and fancy fabrics, non- woven fabrics to help promote JDPs. Other notable technologies are extraction of pineapple leaf, banana, flax and nettle fibres; development of home textiles using flax, nettle, banana PALF yarns; diversified jute nonwoven for agro and geo textiles; and bio-composite for automobiles and house hold furniture. The yak fibre is exploited for making of jute blended winter garments. Jute leaves are used to extract naturally occurring nutrient enriched bio- resource for health supplement beverages and natural personal care products. The leaf is rich in antioxidant properties (3/4th of tea leaves) and it has good DPPH (2,2-diphenyl-1-picrylhydrazyl), FRAP (Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching) and ABTS (2,2’-azino-bis (3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid)) scavenging properties. A protocol has been developed and patented for preparation of jute leaf-based drinks. ICAR-NINFET Kolkata has developed activated carbons from jute (JAC) stick with diversified applications.