 The nitrates are consumed by the green-manure crop and are returned to the soil Dr Sukhdev Regional Research Centre, H P K V Dhaulakau, Sirmour (Himachal Pradesh)  for use by the next crop. If a green-manure crop is not raised, the soil nitrates would be lost. Keywords: green manuring, leguminous crop, greengram, blackgram, horsegram, soybean 2419 Sheep penning, FYM and tank silt application to increase fertility of paddy nursery In nursery area sheep penning is practised. Also about 600 kg tank silt and 600 kg FYM are applied every year. This is being practised since 10 years. Keywords: sheep penning, FYM, tank silt, paddy nursery Shri Arun Kumar No 3 Seventh Street, Sundaram Nagar, Thanjavur (Tamil Nadu) 613 004 2427 Use of sheep penning for increasing soil fertility Sheep penning is practised in the hill region quite extensively. It improves and enriches the soil. During the movement of sheep and goats from one place to another the shepherd must find a suitable resting place for the flock at night. Some cultivators even pay cash to persuade the shepherds to rest their flock on their land for a few days. Sheep manure contains both nitrogen and phosphorus. It is quick acting and it is preferred for application to cash and fruit crops. Sheep manure is dry and convenient to handle during farming in the hills. Farming can be made more remunerative by proper conservation of all sheep and goat manure and its extensive use. Sometimes the excreta of sheep and goats are collected, dried and ground to powder form and then applied to the growing crops. The manure is mixed into the soil by giving cultivation soon after the flock has moved away. The sheep manure should be applied when adequate moisture is available in the soil. Keywords: sheep penning, shepherd, flock, Dr Sukhdev Regional Research Centre, H P K V Dhaulakau, Sirmour (Himachal Pradesh) 2425 Enhancing soil fertility by using cattle bones Animals bones are collected and buried in the basin of the plants, which improves soil fertility by adding phosphorus. Keywords: bones, basin, phosphorus Shri A.K. Agnihotri Joint Director (Planning) and Sr. Scientist, Directorate of Research, Dr. YSPUHF Naini, Solan (Himachal Pradesh) 2426 Sheep-goat penning during fallow season Since ages, a practice is followed in most of parts of Anantapur district in Andhra Pradesh. In this practice, sheep and goats are allowed to enter into the fallow fields for grazing. Sheep penning is very useful, as urine and excreta serve as manure, and the soil is enriched with nutrients. Krishi Vigyan Kendra Reddipalli, Anantapur (Andhara Pradesh) 515 701  Weeds are also reduced. Keywords: sheep-goat, penning, grazing, soil fertility, weed control 2421 Soil sterilization in nursery areas for raising of onion seedlings This practice is being adopted by the farmers of onion-growing villagers of Pantthal, Sundrani, Chchandwa, Sool, Kalta, Padango, Jib, Kun and Kunyol in Udhampur district of Jammu and Kashmir since long.