 Government policies and regulations also plays a vital role in promoting conjunctive use. Policies should encourage the development of infrastructure for rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge, as well as the monitoring of groundwater levels to prevent over- extraction. Additionally, water pricing mechanisms and incentives for adopting efficient irrigation technologies can also help to encourage the farmers to use water resources more judiciously and sustainably. SUMMARY Water harvesting and supplemental irrigation are essential strategies for improving water availability and increasing agricultural productivity in rainfed areas. By capturing and storing rainwater and using it judiciously during critical crop growth stages, farmers can enhance their resilience to erratic rainfall and drought conditions. Roof water harvesting, conjunctive use of surface and groundwater is an option to minimize the utilization of groundwater in urban and rural areas. Ground water sharing by linking 3-4 bore wells and the water can be shared among the community including the farmers without bore wells to reduce the groundwater over- exploitation. Government policies and regulations also play an essential role in promoting conjunctive use. In summary, addressing these policy-related issues is essential for maximizing the potential of rainwater harvesting, ensuring water security, and promoting sustainable agricultural practices in rainfed areas. Policies should encourage the development of infrastructure for rainwater harvesting and groundwater recharge, as well as the monitoring of groundwater levels to prevent over- extraction. Additionally, water pricing mechanisms and incentives for adopting efficient irrigation technologies can help encourage farmers to use water resources more judiciously and sustainably. *Corresponding author email: Kv.Rao@icar.gov.in ! Attention ! Want to try your hands at the ICAR textbooks released recently! No Worries! We got you covered. Now shop the latest textbook collection of ICAR online from the convenience of your home. SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online Indian Farming 18 January 2025 Rainwater management in high rainfall rainfed areas S. K. Rautaray* ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 023 The basic objective of water harvesting in high rainfall areas is to allow maximum possible rainwater to be stored in soil profile in-situ, and the excess runoff to be collected, stored and used in the same area or other areas. So, rainwater management in high rainfall areas involves creating a saturated soil profile, and storing water in ponds, ditches, streams and river beds. This helps in mitigating the water needs during dry spells in kharif season. Harvesting potential can be enhanced by integrating the check dams with ponds, and multi stage harvest with ponds.