 The ripened fruit significantly contributes to the nutrition of lower income families as it is a good source of vitamins, minerals and calories. Presently, the regular varieties like yellow and white bulb fruits are not fetching premium price in market. Further, in substitution to existing varieties, ICAR-IIHR identified two elite lines having greater potential for commercial acceptability namely, Siddu and Shankara; G Karunakaran1, M Arivalagan1, T Sakthivel1, P C Tripathi1, Pushpa Chethan Kumar1, A Shameena1, B M Muralidhara2 and T Ruchitha1 Technology Siddu Jackfruit Shankara Jackfruit Indian Horticulture 36 selection from farmers field of Tumkur, Karnataka known for their unique coppery red bulb colour and higher biochemical constituents. The jackfruit variety Siddu has average fruit weight of 2.44 kg/fruit; each fruit consisting 25-30 bulbs with carotenoids content of 4.43 mg/100g lycopene: 1.12 mg/100g and total phenolics: 31.76 mg Gallic acid equivalents/100g. The variety Shankara is also a clonal selection bearing fruits of 2-5 kg with 60 bulbs. The bulbs are sweet, crispy and coppery red in colour. It had total carotenoid content of 5.83 mg/100 g; lycopene: 2.26 mg/100 g and total phenolics: 37.99 mg GAE/100g. These varieties are suitable for commercial planting and home gardens. Further, fruits are highly palatable with tasty edible flakes, fetching premium price in the market due to their attractive coloured flakes, nutritional value and keeping quality. Jackfruit has huge potential for value addition. In recent decades, number of scientific and economic interests have emerged to promote and commercialize the jackfruit products like jackolates, jackies, dehydrated raw jackfruit flour, squash, nectar and RTS, etc. Value addition in jackfruit helps in popularizing the fruit among the masses thereby creating supplementary income for stakeholders. New technologies and increasing moves by farmers and some NGO’s to popularize this fruit are helping to raise the awareness regarding its production and economic value. Avocado Avocado is the most nutritive among fruits and is regarded as the most important contribution of the New World to human diet. The growing use of Avocado oils and fats in cosmetics is also a reason of increasing popularity of this fruit. The pulp is rich in proteins (up to 4%) and fat (up to 30%), but low in carbohydrates. Avocado is mainly used fresh, in sandwich filling or in salads. It can also be used in ice creams and milk shakes and the pulp may be preserved by freezing. Avocados can be grown on a wide range of soils, but they are extremely sensitive to poor drainage and cannot withstand water- logging. They are intolerant to saline conditions. Optimum range of pH is from 5 to 7. Depending on the race and varieties, avocados can thrive and perform well in climatic conditions ranging from true tropical to warmer parts of the temperate zone. All three horticultural races i.e.