 The planning aims at scientific management of regional resources 330 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 to meet the food, fiber, fodder and fuel wood without adversely affecting natural resources and environment. Agro-climatic conditions mainly refer to soil types, rainfall, temperature and water availability which influences the type of vegetation. 16.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints Agricultural crops Despite significant advances in agricultural sciences there is a significant yield gaps in many of the crops in Maharashtra. Though not a major rice growing state, the productivity of rice is marginally less than the national average and less than 50% of the achievable yield/ha. There is at least 1000 kg/ha gap in wheat productivity relative to achievable yield. Though more than the national average the productivity of sorghum is less than 50% of the achievable yield. Only 40% and 60% of the achievable yield is obtained by chickpea (gram) and pigeonpea (arahar) farmers respectively. Though soybaean productivity is higher than the national average the productivity gap relative to achievable yield is nearly 500 kg/ha. Similarly, the productivity of cotton and sugarcane fall short of achievable yield by 227 kg/ha and 49 MT/ha respectively. These data clearly indicate scope for enhancing the productivity and hence the income of farmers. Yield Gaps in food grain crops 331 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Yield gap analysis between potential productivity of a region and actual crop yields are necessary. The ultimate target is to tap the maximum potential of a crop from a particular region and do the suitability analysis for that purpose. Though the yield gap analysis is generally done using experimental data, an attempt is made here to identify the regions with low productivity retaining heterogeneity of practical farming at district level. The criteria adopted in the demarcation of the zones are based on area as well as yield of different crops. District is placed in different categories depending on the area and productivity levels. Nine categories are considered viz., High area-High yield (HH), High area - Medium yield (HM), High area - Low yield (HL), Medium area - High yield (MH), Medium area- Medium yield (MM), Medium area - Low yield (ML), Low area - High yield (LH), Low area - Medium yield (LM) and Low area - Low yield (LL). Depending upon the availability of water resources, management strategies may have to be evolved to bridge the yield gap in different regions. This comparison may ultimately result in identifying production constraints so as to bring all the zones to higher productivity level. Production constraints can be identified crop diversification efforts can be made to replace the low yielding crops by the high potential crops.