 Insect bioassays with first instar larvae of H. armigero on leaves collected from 45 to 55-daYo.Qld plants revealed high degree of larval mortality in T) generation, similar to that observed with the leaves of a commercial hybrid MECH-162 Bt (Table 3). Further, PCR aod Quan- T ELISA analyses of T) generation plants showed the presence of crylAc gene, which indicated that the T1wll line was homozygous (Table 1). Southern analysis of five plants of T4 generdtion (T-1-11) was carried out and all the five plants tested positive, indicating the homozygosity 1846 (Figure 3). Observations on morphological characters, seed cotton yield per plant, boll damage and boll shed- ding due to natural H. armigera infestation of plants (T) generation) raised under unprotected condition were made. The results are presented in Table 4. The mean seed cot- ton yield of B[-BN homozygous plants was 50S glplant as agaiost 65 glplant of NBI-BN. The pet ceDt boll sbedding among B[-BN plants was 31.3, while in NB[-BN plants it was 88 per cent. The number of well-developed but dam- aged bolls due to pink bollworm in B[-BN was 1-2 per plant as against 8-11 in NB[-BN. Fibre parameters such as micronaire value, elongation, maturity ratio and tenac- ity were measured in both normal and transgenic plants. There were no differences among the nonnal and trans- genic fibres (data not shown). The results have shown that Cry1Ac protein in the two transgenic lines of Bikaneli Nerma was expressed at lev- els higher than that observed in the commercially avail- able MECH-162 hybrid. It is important to achieve high CURRENT SCIENCE. VOL. 93, NO. 12,25 DECEMBER 2007 2.4 M kB IG.O u 7.0 6.0 Sot Hgur~ 3. Soulh~1l hybcidiLllion analysis of gl:'llomk DNAs of BI· k.:lneri Ncrm<l (Normal and T-4) f('strietro by HlndlJl and probed by radiolabel1ed crylAc ( ...e, Positive control; -e, Normal (allan; 1-5, Transgenic plants). levels of CrylAc expression in cotton tissues. especially terminal leaves, so as to maintain lethal levels of the toxin during boll development. Greenplate18 has carried out extensive analysis of CI'YIAc protein concentration in Bt cotton tissues and observed that the toxin levels decline steadily as the growing season progresses. The high lev- els of CrylAc observed in our study could be attributed to the truncated nature of the expressed toxin, while the hybrids derived from the transformation event 531 (Mon- samo Co., USA) express the CrylAc protoxin11• The results also demonstrated that it is possible to transform elite Indian genotypes of cotton (G. hirsutum) by adopting Agrooocter;um-sboot apex technique which has been successfully employed earlier in couon, sun- flower and maizeUl.19. The degree of insect protection conferred by the expression of Cryl Ac protein in trans- formed Bikaneri Nerma was significant Development of a Bt-couon hybrid (NHH-44) by utilizing transgenic Bi- kaneri Nerma, which is the female parent, is in progress. 1. Atwal. G. 5.