 Small hills are made by a welding machine on the inner side of the bottom. Grains drop from the seed tube through the hole in the upper surface on the hill mounted surface. The grains are interrupted by small hills during their movement towards the open end. This well arranged interruption causes uniform spreading of seeds at the outlet of the plate. A seed driller with this type of plate makes broad furrows but the distance between the center of the 2 furrows remains the same as in the case of the usual seed driller. The vacant space between 2 furrows can be utilized in this implement. It can cut the plant easily. This can be sharpened very easily after removing the guard plates because of its lightness and thinness (Pikhor, Maharashtra.) Agraavat (1992c) 100 Two pore hal This implement is made of Shisham and salwood for beam and handle and iron sheet for seed tube, HC steel for tynes. The weight of the tool is 46 lbs. Operated by 2 bullocks and 1 man for line sowing of maize, wheat and cotton with a depth of 4 inches.The implement is hitched with a beam with a yoke. The plough man controls the implement and bullocks. The work rate of this drill is 2 acres/day. The distance between two rows can be kept 8 inches (Ludhiana, Ferozpur, Punjab). ICAR (1960) 132 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 101 Single row seed drill (Nayi-nadi) It is made with Babool wood, hallow bamboo and iron and weighs 60 lbs. It is operated by 2 pairs of bullocks and 2 persons. One man drives the bullocks and 1 woman drops the seeds through the seed bowel. It covers 1 to 2 acres/day (Jabalpur, Sehore, Gwalior and Guna, Madhya Pradesh, and Mirzapur, Aligarh, Meerut and Bareily, Uttar Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 102 Multi purpose tool (Santi) This multi-purpose farming tool (Santi) is considered to be best. It is 11 tools in one and thus very economical. The tool is made of iron. The main shaft is a hollow pipe with a number of holes with a blade, coulters and V- shaped iron plate. The tool is used mainly for sowing (Saurashtra Zone of Gujarat). Guchteneire et al. (1999a) 103 Dophan (two tyned drill) It is made with Babool, bamboo and mild steel and weighs 60-100 lbs. Operated by 2 bullocks and 2 men for line sowing of various crops. The implement is hitched to the yoke by means of yoke and beam. One man drives the bullocks and generally a woman drops the seed in the seed bowel. It covers 2 to 2.5 acres/day. All farmers in these regions use the implement for line sowing of crops (Sihore, Mansore and Malwa, Madhya Pradesh and Warangal, Andhra Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 104 yphen (three tyne seed drill) for sowing of rainfed crops The seed drill is made with Babool wood for beam, handle and tynes with Sagwan and teakwood for seed bowel. This is attached to the yoke by means of beam and operated by two bullocks and two persons; one person drives the bullocks and the other drops the seeds in the centre of the bowel.