 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 27 February 2023 Improved production technology for Boro rice in Eastern India Bal Krishna*, Rakesh Kumar and Sanjeev Kumar Lovely Professional University, Jalandhar, Phagwara, Punjab 144 001 Boro rice is transplanted puddle rice and is grown during winter in lowland conditions. This was cultivated traditionally in eastern India. Development of high-yielding and hybrid Boro rice varieties grown in winter (rabi) season with sufficient irrigation facility, as well as increased use of fertilizers, pesticides, and improved crop management enhanced rice production in the country. These strategies offered farmers to cultivate rice crop during rabi that they were not typically able to grow during this period and was necessary to keep up with the expanding population and diminishing natural resources. Keywords: Boro rice, Nursery management, Planting management, Varieties M ORE than 90% of global rice is produced and consumed in Asia. For millions of families, rice farming is a steady source of job and income. Unfortunately, as rising input costs and labour has discouraged production of rice in the recent years, overall productivity and profitability has been declining. It is most common crop and contributes significantly to income and employment. It is cultivated in India’s three primary growing seasons, viz. from February–March to July–August for Aus rice, June– July to November–December for Aman rice, and November– December to May–June for irrigated Boro rice, i.e. winter (rabi) season popularly known as Boro season. Traditional rice growing regions in eastern India include eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, and Assam. Since, there are little rains during rabi season, Boro rice is completely irrigated. Introduction of high-yielding and hybrid Boro rice varieties, grown throughout dry-season with irrigation, as well as increased use of fertilizers, pesticides, and herbicides, and improved crop management have enhanced the rice production. Use Indian Farming 73 (02): 27-30; February 2023 of ground water irrigation has made an extensive possibility of Boro rice production. Increased Boro rice yield is necessary to meet the increasing demand for food and nutritional security of India’s growing population. A major issue for country in future is to increase the food production from the diminishing available resources, particularly water and land and to keep up with expanding population. Even utilizing the currently existing technologies, there are significant chances to increase rice production by lowering volatility in rice yield at the farmers’ fields.