 Unit 11: Ecotoxicology Toxicity of pesticides, fungicides, weedicides, fertilizers on biosphere. Chemical warfare agents and radiation hazards. Toxicity from food additives, preservatives. Statutory regulation on agrochemical formulation and their uses. Recent advances in evaluation of cytotoxicity, immunotoxicity, teratogenicity, mutagenicity, embroyotoxicity. Unit 12: Miscellaneous Topics Drugs promoting growth and production. Agents used for doping and restraining of wild animals. Euthanising agents. Drug control and regulation. 7.3. ANIMAL REPRODUCTION & GYNAECOLOGY Unit 1: Veterinary Gynaecology Biology of sex. Development of female genitalia. Functional anatomy of female reproductive system of farm animals. Growth, puberty and sexual maturity. Reproductive cycles (oestrous cycle) in female farm animals. Oogenesis and folliculogenesis. Follicular dynamics and ovulation. Transport and survival of gametes, fertilization, cleavage, implantation and maternal recognition of pregnancy. 72 Sex determination and differentiation, Development of foetus and foetal membranes. Period of embryo and period of fetus, Teratology of fetus, Placenta- classification and functions. Gestation and pregnancy diagnosis in farm animals. Unit 2 : Reproductive Endocrinology Reproductive hormones, classification, synthesis, chemical composition and mechanism of action. Hypothalamus, pituitary, thyroid, gonadotropic, gonadal, placental and pineal gland hormones. Prostaglandins, pheromones, growth factors and hormone antagonists and their significance in animal reproduction. Hormonal assays. Hormonal regulation of male and female reproduction. Clinical uses of hormones. Unit 3 : Accidents during Gestation Pregnancy, Pseudocyesis, Ectopic pregnancy, Abnormalities of fertilization and foetal development, Superfecundation and superfetation. Abortion – bacterial, viral, mycotic, protozoal, physical, toxic and miscellaneous causes, diagnosis and prevention, Dropsy of foetal membrane and foetus, Maceration, mummification, Pyometra, Antepartum vagino-cervical prolapse, Uterine torsion and displacement of uterus. Retained fetal membranes. Unit 4 : Veterinary Obstetrics Pelvis and pelvimetry. Parturition – Signs approaching parturition, initiation and stages of parturition, induction of parturition and postpartum period. Presentation, position and posture. Causes and forms of dystocia and its treatment. Epidural anaestheia. Obstetrical maneuvers including fetotomy and Caesarean section. Post-partum complications in domestic animals, retention of placenta, uterine proplapse, endometritis, metritis, septic metritis. Post parturient metabolic disorders. Unit 5 : Andrology Comparative anatomy of male reproductive system. Thermoregulation of testis and blood testis barrier, Growth, puberty and sexual maturity. Spermatogenesis including cycle of somniferous epithelium and spermatogenic wave.