 Lakshmana (2000) 4 Land preparation for groundnut cultivation Farmers plough their groundnut fields immediately after the monsoon crop and keep the furrows exposed till the fine soil and dust deposited on the furrows by the wind during summer benefits the groundnut being planted in the following season in the same furrows. Sometimes farmers incorporate small pieces of bricks in the soil as an alternative to trap wind-borne soil. There, the farmers expected chickpea residue to move with the wind and get deposited in the open furrows (Amreli, Gujarat). Desai (1993) 15 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 Mahuda to facilitate land preparation Turmeric and ginger, grown in winter require fertile and well-drained soil. To make preparation of the heavy soil easier, farmers spread leaves and twigs of Mahuda (Madhuca indica) over field and burn them. The fields are then tilled and irrigated before sowing. This practice has existed for at least 25 to 30 years. Farmers use Khakhra (Butea monosperma) leaves along with mahuda for improving soil texture (Rena, Punchmahal, Gujarat). Sartanbhai (1993) 6 Soil management through cultural practices In West Himalayan region in March/April when snow melts and weather condition improves the bunds and corners of the fields are dug out and weeds and grasses are removed with the help of spade and clods are beaten to separate the soil which is collected in lower fields and thereby, improving the fertility of soil. This practice enables not only better weed control but also does not waste the area under cultivated crops (West Himalayan region). Verma (1998) 7 Management of direct seeded rice Direct dry sown paddy crop is ploughed in standing water at 25 to 30 days after sowing. After receipt of heavy rainfall or impounding water in the fields, this operation is performed. After ploughing, the planking is done invariably except in very heavy soils. Due to non- availability of effective and cheap chemicals weed control, the practice has found place in cultivation. The weeds get ploughed in and standing water help in their rotting. Though not clean control but suppression effect (Himachal Pradesh). Singh et al. (1996) 8 Halod or bushening in standing paddy Halod or bushening is a practice of ploughing in dry sown paddy in standing water at 25 to 30 days after sowing. This is useful to suppress the weeds and thinning the excessive plant population. Thus the weeds and excess rice seedlings get incorporated into the soil leading in way to green manuring (Hilly areas of Himachal Pradesh, Ranchi of Jharkhand). Singh (2000) 9 Shallow ploughing in standing pearl millet Farmers in Rajasthan do shallow ploughing in standing pearlmillet around 45 days after sowing to uproot the excess plants and to enhance the tillering. Similar practice is also done in Tamil Nadu for fingermillet grown under rainfed conditions (Rajasthan and Tamil Nadu).