 The present course of the Sabarmati is around 15 km southeast of the archaeological site, and the Rupen River is around 4 km away. Rainfall is delivered by the summer monsoon, with an average of around 55 rain days generally between June and September and total precipitation of Fig. 2. Stratigraphy from Historic Phase to the Post Medieval phase of Trench YA1/72/85, Locality C, Vadnagar. Cultural phases, sample collection points and numismatic records of dynasties indicated. A.K. Pokharia et al. Quaternary Science Advances 13 (2024) 100155 4 around 650 mm annually on average (Fick and Hijmans, 2017). Modern agriculture is dominated by summer season millet farming, with sup­ plementary winter crops sown between November and April, aided by modern irrigation systems. The majority of the present day landscape is agricultural land, with some communities of dry deciduous forests composed of Prosopis cineraria, Prosopis chilensis, Azadirachta indica, Acacia nilotica, Ailanthus excelsa, Holoptelia integrifolia, Salvadora oleoides, Ziziphus sp., Acacia tortalis, and Citrus aurantium being the dominant arboreal vegetation community (Singh, 2013). Archaeological excavations have been taking place at the site since 2014 first under the Directorate of Archaeology, Gujarat followed by the Archaeological Survey of India. Excavations have revealed archaeolog­ ical deposits up to 24 m in depth (Agnihotri et al., 2021) with contexts dated by OSL and AMS to the 6th century BCE. Previous archae­ obotanical studies (Pokharia et al., 2021) of deposits associated with Buddhist stupas at the site indicate an agricultural economy dominated by rice and pulses between the 1st century BCE and the 5th century of the Common Era (CE). The substantial archaeological remains as well as historical accounts from the Chinese Buddhist pilgrims Faxian and Xuanzang (Agnihotri et al., 2021) indicate the site has been a significant urban and monastic landscape for at least 2000 years. This long-term urban archaeological sequence is rare among excavated historic period sites in northern India. The main excavated site is located adjacent to Sharmistha Lake, a semi-natural water body possibly originating from an oxbow lake prior to the diversion of the Sabarmati before being modified into a reservoir during the early occupation of the city (Ambekar, 2022). In addition to this resource, it has been argued that porous soil landscapes around the site have allowed easy access to groundwater (Agnihotri et al., 2021). In a survey of local water management structures, Ambekar (2022) reports 54 artificial waterbodies interlinked by canals within 10 km of the site, and based on related structural materials dated at least as early as the 1st century CE, argues that these abundant and complex water management systems allowed for long-term resilience of urban occupation at Vadnagar. 3. Materials and methods 3.1. Sampling and collection 74 samples totaling 3750 L of sediment (Fig.