 Suitable crops Microplastics found in the gut of Labeo rohita Microplastics found in sediments of Indoplanorbis exustus Microplastics found in sediments of wastewater canals Microplastics found in sediments of East Kolkata Wetlands Microplastics contamination in aquatic ecosystems There is global concern on ill effects of microplastics on humans and other organisms including aquatic biota. Wastewater canals associated with East Kolkata Wetlands are heavily loaded with microplastics (30.46 to 137.72 microplastics/L in surface water and 1,108.78 to 34,612.87 microplastics/kg in sediments) and eventually they contaminate aquatic ecosystems. A number of microplastics of various colour and morphologies were found in the fish guts.It was also found that floating microplastics in the surface water are a major reason for microplastics content in fish guts. Further, an investigation was made to evaluate the occurrence of microplastics in a typical water treatment plant with a pulse clarification system. In the test water treatment plant, raw water was sourced from river Ganga and found to contain microplastics at a concentration of 17.88 items/L. It was found that different water treatment stages like coagulation-flocculation, pulse clarification and sand filtration reduced the microplastics content in the final treated water. The cumulative microplastic removal at key treatment stages, viz. pulse clarification and sand filtration were found to be 63 and 85%, respectively. The most frequently occurring microplastics were fibres and films/ fragments. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 13 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY identified for growing on raised beds include green Amaranth, brinjal, tomato, ridge gourd, bitter gourd, vegetable nursery and okra. Mapping of groundwater potential zones and identification of recharge structures: Geo- morphological characterization along with use of thematic maps for delineation and preparation of groundwater potential zone for Kakan watershed in the hard rock areas of Jhadol block, Udaipur district, Rajasthan revealed three distinct zones of good, moderate and poor groundwater potential covering 29.8, 24.5 and 18.5% of total catchment area (47.44 km2) of the watershed. Groundwater recharge computed for 19 representative sites in the watershed showed average recharge of 6.95 cm/year. Favourable artificial groundwater recharge zones were delineated for the catchment area using remote sensing and GIS, which amounted to 18.06% of the catchment area. Recharge structures such as embankment type percolation tanks and dry stone masonry ponds were recommended for construction in Kakan watershed.