 Keywords: macrel, asafoetida, chilli, fenugreek, vinegar, pickle Macrel is cut into pieces. Coriander seeds, red chilli, blackgram, fenugreek, coconut and cloves are roasted and ground with tamarind. Oil is heated and onion is fried by mixing all the ground material, salt and haldi powder with macrel. Keywords: macrel, udda methi In rainy season people of Keshkal block of district Bastar in Chhattisgarh catch the fishes and preserve them for the next year. Fish breeds of sidhari, mangur, etc. are collected, and after washing, these are burnt with the paddy stalk in such a way that the outer skin of fish turns reddish-brown. These processed fish are stored in a bin, called tokari. Moisture content in fish should be less than 6-8%. The Ms Sadhya Kamat, Upper Bazaar, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) Ms Sunetra M. Talauliker, Training Associate (Home Science), ICAR Research Complex for Goa, Ela-Old-Goa (Goa) 403 402 Ms Promila Kamat, Tiswadi, Ponda, North Goa (Goa) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3523 Preparation of bitter gourd (karela) pickle 3524 Bamboo-shoot pickle 3525 Jackfruit papad 3526 Breadfruit papad store bin is made of green leaves of sihari shrub. These leaves have some antibacterial and antifungal properties, which ensure longer storability of fish. Keywords: fish, preservation, burning, tokri, sihari Fresh bitter gourd (karela) is cut into pieces and is deep-fried. Salt, tamarind juice, roasted mustard, methi powder, chilli powder and jaggery are added to the fried karela. Then it is cooked into a thick sauce and is taken as a pickle. It is stored in a bottle for long-term use. Keywords: pickle, karela, methi, mustard, jaggery Bamboo shoot is peeled and cut into small pieces, and then put in brine solution for 8 days. Green chillies are taken and cut into small pieces. Oil is heated and salt, mustard powder, asafoetida, turmeric powder and sliced green chillies are added to it along with the soaked bamboo shoot and is stirred well. Pickle is ready for use after sometime. Keywords: asafoetida, bamboo shoot, chilli, pickle Pulp is taken from fresh ripe jackfruit and is boiled. It is then cooled. Salt, cumin, chilli powder and asafoetida are added to the boiled mixture. Small dough is made into papad and is kept for sun-drying. It can be stored and consumed throughout the year. Keywords: papad, asafoetida, jackfruit Breadfruit is boiled and is peeled nicely. Salt, cumin, green chillies and pepper are added to the boiled breadfruit. Dough is made by mixing it Ms Leela Talauliker, Panaji, Shankowadi.Tiswadi. North Goa (Goa) Ms Sunetra M.