 The NARP of the Indian Council Rhododendron Arboreum November–December 2023 81 of Agricultural Research has classified the region into seven distinct agro-climatic zones based on altitude, rainfall pattern and temperature variation: Alpine Zone, Temperature, Subalpine Zone, Subtropical Hilly Zone, Subtropical Lowland Zone, Mild Tropical Hilly Zone, Mild Tropical Lowland Zone. The agro-climatic conditions of the Northeastern states are suitable for growing various flower crops viz., rose, tuberose, anthuriums, chrysanthemums, lilies, gerberas, carnations, gladioli and orchids like Dendrobium, Phalaenopsis, Cattleya, Oncidium, Vanda Paphiopedilum and Oncidium, etc. Institutions to support research and development There are several institutions in the Northeastern States viz., NRC for Orchids, Sikkim, Assam Agriculture University, Jorhat, Central Agriculture University, Imphal and its colleges in different Northeastern states, Institute of Bioresources & Sustainable Development (IBSD), ICAR- Complex for NEH Region, Barapani, Meghalaya and its regional centres in all Northeastern states. State Forest Research Institute, Arunachal Pradesh, Rajiv Gandhi University, Papum Pare, Arunachal Pradesh, Nagaland University, Kohima, North Eastern Hill University, Shillong, Botanical Survey of India, Shillong and Gangtok, etc., that can play a significant role in the development of floriculture industry in the region. In addition to these institutions, there are 70 Krishi Vigyan Kendra that can help disseminate flower production technologies. Increasing domestic consumption The consumption of floriculture products is increasing with the change in socio-economic structure and globalisation. The Indian floriculture market was worth ` 130 billion in 2017 and is expected to reach ` 394 billion by 2023, at a CAGR of 20% during 2018-2023. In 2020-21, floriculture crops were grown on about 322 thousand hectares of land, with an estimated production of 2151.96 thousand tonnes of loose flowers and 828.09 thousand tonnes of cut flowers (APEDA, 2022). Floriculture is emerging as a diversified industry with flowers and ornamental plants having significant aesthetic, social, environmental and economic value. India imported orchid cut flowers worth ` 3425 lakhs in 2015-16, which declined to ` 2248 lakhs in 2018-19 and further to ` 1585 lakhs in 2019-20. Since 2015-16, there has been a steady decline in orchid cut flower imports as domestic production has increased. Strategies for Developing Floriculture Industry in Northeast India The Northeastern states have enormous potential for development of floriculture. The Technology Mission for Development of Horticulture in the Northeastern States provided a momentum for development of floriculture in Northeastern states. The scheme has created awareness about flower cultivation in the region. The following strategies are proposed for harnessing floriculture potential of Northeastern states.