Resins cures rheumatism, nervous and skin diseases. Parabia et al. (2000) 255 Medicinal uses of Digera muricata, D. arvensis Plant, flower and seed of latamahuria (Digera muricata) contain a and b spinasterols which are used as laxative and for urinary discharge Parabia et al. (2000) 256 Medicinal uses of Digitalis purpurea, D.arvensis The Plant of Digitalis purpurea contains glycosides, digitoxin, gitoxin, gitalin used for its effect on cardiovascular system,to increase force of systolic contraction and efficiency of decompensated heart and also in dropsy and renal obstruction. Parabia et al. (2000) 257 Medicinal uses of Diospyros peregrina, D.embnryopteris Fruit, stembark, dried seed of taindu ( Diospyros peregrina) that contains tannins, pectin, glucose, ether extract of fruit, b- sitosterol, betulin are used as astringent, styptic, oleoginous used for snake bite, leprosy, dysentery, diarrhoea, diseases of blood, gonorrhoea, sore throat, wounds and ulcers, chronic dysentery, diarrhoea, haemorrhages and intermittent fevers. Parabia et al. (2000) 258 Medicinal uses of Diospyros melanoxylon Stembark, dried flowers of tendu (Diospyros melanoxylon) contain tannin, hentricontone, hentriacontanol, a -Amyrin, Binaphthoquinone and are used for dysentry, dyspepsia, diarrhoea, lotion for eyes, urinary and blood diseases. Parabia et al. (2000) 227 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 259 Medicinal uses of Dolichos lablab Syn Lablab purpureus Root, fruit, seed of sem (Dolichos lablab) contain albuminoids, carbohydrates, woody fibre, ash and are used as aphrodisiac, flatulant, bilious, febrifuge, stomachic, antispasmodic, root is poisonous, fruit is used in phlegmatic disorders. Parabia et al. (2000) 260 Medicinal uses of Dregea volubilis, Syn.Wattakaka volubilis, Marsedenia volubiis Plant, root and leaf of nakchhikni (Dregea volubilis) contain glucoside, dregein, glycoside, dregnoside which are used as emetic, expectorant, for boils and abscesses, eye diseases, cold and snake bites. Parabia et al. (2000) 261 Medicinal uses of Echinocloa frumentacea, E.colonum, syn.Panicum frumentacea Plant and fruits of sanua (Echinochloa frumentacea) contain starch and are used in biliousness and constipation Parabia et al. (2000) 262 Medicinal use of Echinops echinatus Plant, root, root bark, fruit of untakatara (Echinops echinatus) is used as alterative, diuretic, nervine tonic, aromatic, aphrodisiac, wound in cattle to destroy maggots, mixed with acacia gum and applied to hair to destroy lice, hoarse cough, hysteria, dyspepsia, scrofula and opthalmia. Parabia et al.