 In addition, the ripening of this cultivar coincides with rains in late April which hampers fruit quality and marketability. To get rid of these problem fruit/fruitlets of cv. Flordasun should be thinned on 20 days after full bloom with spacing of fruits at 10 to 15 cm on shoot on the whole tree canopy. This advanced the fruit maturity by 12-14 days with an average fruit yield of 28.10 kg/tree. Production of grafted/budded plants of Khasi mandarin: To increase the production of budded/grafted plants, the Division of Horticulture ICAR, Umiam, Meghalaya has standardized the wedge grafting technique, which is done in July-August on 6-7 month rootstock for the production of grafted plants with more than 80-85% plant survival. Thus, it is suggested to do wedge grafting during July-August on 6-7 months old rootstock. Rootstock left after grafting can be utilized for T-budding during February to extend the grafting/budding period up to 3 months with the use of available resources. Off-season production of strawberry under low tunnels: Strawberry can be produced 30-35 days earlier than normal period, when planted in low tunnels of 50% shade net in July-August and the period of fruit availability may be extended to 47 days from normal when planted in November under UVS polythene tunnels. Normal fruiting period under open condition was 2nd fortnight of January to 2nd fortnight of March. Stage-wise requirement of N and K in banana: The Department of Horticulture, Assam Agricultural University has standardized the Stage-wise requirement of N and K in banana by applying 60% of N at planting to five-month stage, 20% of N at shooting, 20% of N at last hand opening to one month before harvest and potassium fertilizer: 40% of K at shooting to last hand opening and 60% of K at last hand opening to one month before harvest stage. Lowcost structure for organic Kiwi multiplication: Semi-hardwood cuttings of 0.5-1.0 cm thickness with relatively short internodes and about 15-20 cm in length are most ideal and showed 70% rooting under low cost structure with the media composition of sterilized growing medium composed of perlite, vermiculite, cocopeat and vermicompost (1:1:1:1 ratio). Jute bags should be removed after 90 days planting of the cuttings. Improved Cultivar Development Papaya: Tripura Papita: ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Tripura Centre, developed a papaya cultivar RCTP1 which produce much higher average fruit yield per plant (63.25 kg/ plant). It has remarkably higher fruiting zone of 214.68 cm on an average. Average fruit size is 2.05 kg. Tolerant to Papaya Ring Spot Virus. Average Yield, 63.25 kg/plant Guava: Megha Guava-1 (RCGH-1): It is a progeny of cross Sour Type x Red Fleshed. Plant growth was upright, erect with dark green broad leaves. Yield potential was 17-19 t/ha under mid hill condition. Fruits are medium size, globose, greenish yellow with red dots at ripening. Pulp is creamy white, soft seeded, rich in vitamin C (230.