 Trial of 16 advance breeding lines with resistance to FW and SMD in mid-early duration were evaluated at 8 locations viz; IIPR, Bhopal; ARS, Badnapur; MPKV, Rahuri; RAK, Sehore; OUAT, Berhampur; BAU, Ranchi; UAS, Bangalore and RARS, Nandyal during 2019. Promising lines were selected by centers for further used in their breeding program. To introgress fusarium wilt and sterility mosaic disease resistance QTL in elite pigeonpea cultivars, 27 elite pigeonpea cultivars were crossed with ICPL 20096 (donor parent for FW and SMD resistance. F1s were crossed with recipient parents to generate BC1F1 and seeds are harvested. 10 SNPs each for fusarium wilt resistance and sterility mosaic diseases resistance screening are validated and available on HTPG platform. The BC1F1s generated will be screened with trait associated markers to identify heterozygote plants carrying FW and SMD resistance alleles. Towards marker- assisted selection for important traits, a set of ~90 lines were screened with the INDEL and SNPs markers to identify fertility restorer lines. Based on analysis, 2 InDels (RFQ_1) and RFQ-_4) and six SNPs (snpCC009, snpCC019, snpCC013, snpCC016, snpCC017, snpCC018 markers associated with Rf (for A4 system) are identified for fertility restoration. Also, a SNP-based QC panel of 48 SNPs has been developed at HTPG and 384 elite breeding lines, parental lines and F1s were tested for its polymorphism. BMS was used for creating all trials and nurseries. On advanced bioinformatics support, collaboration has been initiated and several experiments were planned and executed, and data is currently being acquired and analyzed. Pigeonpea workshop cum field day was also organised at ICRISAT, Patancheru during 17-18 December 2019. Over 40 Scientists from ICAR, SAU and Private seed companies participated in this event. The sub-project on sorghum has the following major objectives: (1) To diversify the rainy season sorghum cultivar base to break the yield plateau and develop new red grained sorghum hybrids with improved grain mold resistance and anti-oxidant properties; (2) To diversify the genetic base of postrainy sorghum for higher yield and quality, development of dwarf restorer lines with high restoration percentage and lines with high productivity under drought; (3) Improved sweet/high biomass sorghum cultivars and hybrid parents developed for higher sugar and biomass yield and assessed the biofuel production potential; (4) Genetic dissection of priority traits in sorghum and accelerating genetic gains in sorghum by using genomics and molecular breeding tools; and (5) Sharing of knowledge, breeding materials and human resource development. New crosses were made with elite caudatum-durra lines and selected guinea race germplasm accessions with maintainer reaction to diversify the seed parental lines. Similarly, crosses were made for restorer’s diversification.