 The thematic areas covered include pest and disease management, grain storage, horticultural crops, veterinary sciences and animal husbandry, fishery, ethno-botany and agro-biodiversity and weather forecasting. The geographical indications of the plant species have been indicated with reference to the code numbers and titles of the ITKs as cited in the Documents 1 and 2 and 2 supplements of Document 2 which have been published earlier under the aegis of the project. Botanical names of the plant species for which the geographical indications have been documented have been given alphabetically in a separate chapter. This document is a compilation of information for which published books and website have been consulted, and have been indicated in the references cited in the Document. G Contents Preface HE Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched a Mission Mode project on 'Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK)' under National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). The inventory of ITKs published in four volumes under this project in the form of Document 1 and 2 with two Supplements (Supplement 1 and 2) of Document 2, includes the use of a large number of plant species in various forms in different ITKs. Knowledge on various aspects of the plant species which are use in ITKs with respect to their geographical indications including names, habitat, botanical parameters, active ingredients and therapeutical qualities is essential for their further experimentation and validation to determine the efficacy of the ITKs. The geographical indicators of 228 plant species which were found to be in use in the ITKs documented in project covering agriculture, animals husbandry, fisheries and other land-based activities, have been compiled in this volume entitled 'Geographical Indications of Plant Species in ITKs in Agriculture'. The description of the plant species has been indicated with reference to the Code numbers and Titles of the ITKs as referred in Document 1 and 2 and two supplements (Supplement 1 and 2 of Document 2). Each plant species has been given its identification in the form of botanical name and local names in different Indian languages, besides English. The information on active ingredients of the plant species discussed in other literature have been included, citing the sources of information. While the publication would be useful for the users for better understanding of functioning of the ITKs and its extrapolation in places where the ITK may not be in practices but the plant materials are available, the document can also be appropriately used to protect the intellectual property of the ITKs. We are extremely grateful to Dr Mangala Rai, Secretary (DARE) and Director General (ICAR) for his constant encouragement in implementing the project. The support received from Dr J.C. Katyal, National Director (NATP), Dr S.L. Mehta, Former National Director (NATP) and Dr K.P.