 Indigenous cattle of Nagaland and Sikkim are slightly bigger than the indigenous cattle of Meghalaya. The height at wither is the most differentiating trait in these cattle populations of North East states. Konkan cattle: Konkan cattle are distributed in Thane, Palghar, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts of Konkan region of Maharashtra and Goa. The coat is generally brownish red or black, animals Cattle of Sikkim, Meghalaya and Nagaland states  GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 26 are 33.9 kg, 69.2±0.5 cm, 74.0± 0.3 cm and 77.3±0.3 cm in ewes, and 55.0 kg, 77.8±0.6 cm, 83.2±0.5 cm and 89.9±0.5 cm in rams. Coat is white and consists of thick hair. Face is white or white with black or brown patches of varying size or black. Horns are present in 90% rams, whereas ewes are generally polled. Horns are thick, corrugated and curved in rams. Tail is small and thin. Udder is well developed. In Yalaga, age at first lambing is 18-24 months and lambing percentage ranges from 70 to 95%. Nagaland goats: Nagaland long hair goats have different colour variants, viz. white with black patches, black, brown with grey hair. Only adult males have long hair. Animals are of medium size having proportionate body, straight nose line, erect but horizontally placed ears. The horns in females are shorter, pointed, directed upward and backward while in males thicker, longer, orienting upward and backward. The wattles and beard are present in majority of goats. Muzzle is black/brown/pinkish. The belly and legs below knee joint are black. The udder and teats are moderately developed. Udder is bowl shaped and teats are small and cone type. The under belly is black/ white. The average body weight for adult male and female is 31.48 kg and 25.79 kg, respectively. The milk yield is 0.3 to 0.5 litre/day. The litter size varies from 1 to 4. Hair obtained from the Nagaland goats have commercial utility for the tribal people and is used for beautification of garments, ornaments and weaponry. Genetic characterization Taurine and Indicine breeds: Individuals belonging to taurine and indicine breeds were clearly distinguished using SNP markers and applying Principal Component Analysis (PCA). The hybrid cattle were clearly placed in-between the two breeds. The first and second principal components explained 15.75 and 4.25% of the variation among breeds, respectively. Screening for genetic diseases in Frieswal and indigenous breeds: A faster and economic genotyping protocol was developed for congenital vascular malformation (CVM) and the same was registered for an Indian Patent. A displacement PCR based tetra- amplification-refractory mutation system (T-ARMS DPCR) genotyping assay was also developed for bovine leukocyte adhesion deficiency (BLAD) and CVM.