 Geographical indications A large, erect, unarmed, deciduous, spreading tree common all over India, from the plains up to 900 m in the Himalayas, and also in the Andamans. Bark dark-brown to greenish- black, rough, with longitudinal and transverse fissures on outer surface; inner surface whitish with fine longitudinal striations; leaves bipinnate with 8-18 leaflets; inflorescence Contents Tree in full bloom HORTICULTURAL CROPS in globose heads of greenish yellow flowers; pods yellowish brown, strap-shaped with 6-10 seeds. The tree, which attains a clear bole of 6-9 m and a girth of 1.8 m, prefers moist situations, and is found to grow on a variety of soils. It can be raised by direct sowing and planting out seedlings from nursery. Stump-planting also proved successful. The seeds are sown in the nursery during March- April and watered regularly but moderately and the beds kept well weeded. The young plants are ready for transplanting early in the rainy season. The tree is planted to check soil erosion, as shade tree in coffee and cardamom plantations and as green-manure. It is planted along road- sides and in gardens. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1889 General care of orchard Volume 2, page 270 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1891 Ensuring fruit quality Volume 2, page 270 Castor Refer to ITK Code No. 1808 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 1468 Use of lemon juice to increase the productivity of citrus Volume 2, page 270 Lemon Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: baranebu, goranebu; Gujarati: motu limbu; Hindi: baranibu, jambira, paharikaghzi, paharinimbu; Kannada: bijapura, bijuri; Marathi: idalimbu, thoralimbu; Tamil: malai elumichai, periya elumichai; Telugu: bijapuram. Lemon Citrus limon (Linn.) Burm. f. Lemon is generally taken as fresh fruit. It is widely used in the preparation of lemonade, squash and home-made sherbet. Lemon juice may be used in preparing effervescent, diaphoretic and diuretic draughts. It is a well known French remedy for colds. The juice also possesses bactericidal property. A tree up to 6 m in height, of spreading habit, thought to be native to India but not found growing wild anywhere. Spines small, stout; leaves light-green, oblong to elliptic ovate, lanceolate, sharp-pointed, sub-serrate, petioles narrowly winged; flowers purple in the bud, large; fruits ovoid or oblong, 7.5-12.5 cm long with a terminal nipple, very acrid; seeds few, small. The lemon presents a number of diverse forms. The common lemons in India are probably indigenous citron-lemon hybrids. Pati- lebu distributed throughout Assam is valued for its flavour and juice, which makes a refreshing sherbet.