 This accommodates 143 plants per hectare. Planting material: The planting material is more crucial in oil palm as the crop is perennial in nature giving economic yields up to 30 years. At present in India, propagation of oil palm is through seed only. Oil palm seed is a hybrid called tenera, a cross between dura and pisifera carried out in controlled condition in seed gardens. The time scale to produce hybrid seed sprouts is around 16 months. The sprouts are produced in seed gardens and supplied to processors for raising nursery. Approximately 12-14 months old good quality seedlings are supplied by processors to farmers for main field planting. In India, presently, four oil palm seed gardens are under production with a capacity to produce 11-12 lakh germinated seeds per year, to cover about 6500 ha. By 2024-25, few more oil palm seed gardens, which are under establishment, are likely to start seed production to cover 19000 ha approximately. And it may increase to 30,500 ha in 2026 and continue thereafter. Above projection includes one seed garden under establishment at West Serzawl under the Department of Agriculture, Government of Mizoram which is mainly focused to supply seeds to Northeastern states. However, this quantity is not sufficient to meet the demands of area expansion targets of GOI. A minimum of five more oil palm seed gardens are required in Northern Eastern region to meet the germinated seed demands of area expansion targets indigenously. The strengths of Indigenous oil palm hybrid seed production are superior quality of sprouts, low cost with high productivity, well acclimatized and suitable for Indian conditions. Mother palms having slow vertical growth (Dwarf) and high water use efficiency also are now available for the production of mother palms for seed gardens. Nursery: Small size bags (23 × 15 cm with 250 gauge) at primary stage and big size bags (38 × 45 / 45 × 55 cm with 500-800 gauge) during secondary stage are preferred for growing nursery plants. Shading for oil palm seedlings is necessary only in primary stage during summer season particularly in places where temperature goes beyond 400 C. Sprouts with differentiated plumule and radicle need be selected for planting. The optimum stage is when radicle is about 10-15 mm long. The sprout should be placed in the hole of 2-3 cm deep made at the middle of the bag, by gently keeping plumule pointing upward and radicle downward. Seedlings grown for 4 months in primary stage have to be transferred to big bags without further delay. Removal of abnormal and undesirable seedlings during the nursery stage is called culling. It is the most important and crucial practice. Generally, the per cent of abnormal seedlings during primary and secondary stages of nursery are to the tune of 15-22%. Basin management: Around the base of the palm, basins are to be made and managed well in oil palm for better resource use efficiency.