 For example, presently, the cashew farmers sell their produce to major processors at a lower price. In case they themselves adopt small scale processing, the overall returns will be higher by 50-60%. Table : Technologies Related to Horticulture for doubling the farmers’ income S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to technology Ultra high density planting Planting of cashew under ultra density planting technique (3 m x 3 m or 2.5 m x 2.5 m) 400 to 600 plants per by super imposing regular productive pruning using selected cashew varieties such as VRI-3, Ullal-1, NRCC Sel-2 and hybrid H-130 has been successfully demonstrated in farmer’s field. About 3-4 tones of nut yield per ha can be harvested in the early stage of orchard life from ultra high density orchards. These technologies are package intensive and are more successful in hilly terrains of coastal and main land tracts. 100 – 200 % 258 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to technology 1. Intercropping in cashew In the high rainfall zones and also in the regions of availability of irrigation facilities, intercrops such as locally important marketable vegetables, pulses and medicinal plants can be grown as intercrops in widely spaced cashew plantations in the initial years of cashew crop. The suitability of season and type of intercrops is a most critical factor. 50 – 100% Depending on selected crop 2. High yielding varieties/ hybrids Till date, 43 high yielding cashew varieties have been released and recommended for cultivation of these; regionally suitable varieties can be grown successfully in different zones. A few hybrids viz., H-130, H-126, H-32/4 and NRC 493, NRC 301 with big apple and bold nut are under evaluation and in pipeline for release. Most of these are very high yielding (20-30%) and with premium kernel grade recovery (W 110 to W 180). 50 – 60 % 3. Value added products Protocols for the products from cashew apple such as cashew apple juice (RTS), jelly, jam, halwa and cider (low alcoholic beverage) have been standardized and market acceptability is being evaluated. This activity ensures effective utilization of cashew apple which is presently going waste, and will enhance the total income from cashew orchards. 20 – 40 % 4. Homestead cashew processing units Presently, the cashew farmers sell their produce to major processors at a lower price. In case they themselves adopt small scale processing the overall returns will be much higher. Further the retail rural economy will get a boost. 40-50 % 5. Converting wastelands into cashew orchards The existing wastelands can be converted into cashew plantations through appropriate soil management practices. By this effective land utilization can be achieved and additional quantity of raw nut targeted can be obtained to meet the local processing needs of the nation.