.......................... and to provide funds for running the said KVK on the said land, as per terms & conditions laid down by MORTGAGEE. WHEREAS the Mortgagee agreed to establish the said KVK on terms and conditions as set forth in the Agreement entered into between ............................... and ............................... on ............................... and to provide funds from time to time towards salary of staff, recurring and non-recurring contingencies, construction of office buildings, hostels, demonstration farm, staff quarters etc. WHEREAS the financial support of an amount of ` 80 lakh (approx.) is to be given to the mortgagor by the mortgagee over a period of time inter alia for construction of Admn. Building (not exceeding a plinth area of 550 sq.mt.), Farmers Hostel (not exceeding a plinth area of 305 m2), staff quarters (not exceeding a plinth area of 400 m2), Demonstration Unit (not exceeding a plinth area of 160 m2) and fencing and farm development including threshing floor and farm godown. As the amount indicated above is only approximate, the liability of the Mortgagor will be to the extent of the amount actually released by the Mortgagee for the above items of work and not restricted to the amount mentioned hereinabove. AND WHEREAS one of the conditions for providing aforesaid funds is that the Mortgagor should secure that funds and utilize it as per the terms & conditions of the Agreement. 149 Appendices NOW THIS INDENTURE WITNESSETH as follows: 1. The MORTGAGER shall act in accordance with the terms and conditions as set forth in the Agreement. 2. That the Mortgagor shall maintain the buildings and other constructions made with the financial support from MORTGAGEE/ICAR in proper condition and pay local rates, taxes and all other outgoings in respect of the Mortgaged property regularly until the completion of the project. 3. That the Mortgagor shall not during the continuance of these presents charge, encumber, alienate or otherwise dispose of the mortgaged property. 4. If the MORTGAGOR acts in violation of the Agreement the KVK project shall be terminated without assigning any reasons to the MORTGAGOR and ICAR shall not be responsible for any Inconvenience suffered by the Mortgagor/host organization including any staff member in the said KVK. 5. In the event of the termination of the project by ICAR the vehicles, farm machineries and equipments and other articles purchased under the scheme and the buildings and other structures acquired/constructed with ICAR’s assistance shall remain the property of the Council. The ICAR shall alone decide the manner in which these equipments/machineries/vehicles/other articles/buildings/structures can be utilized/transferred/disposed of. The Mortgagor shall not claim any right/title over the articles mentioned hereinabove. 6.