 Bili is a perennial tree, grows to a height of 5- 12 m. It bears leaves with 3-5 leaflets dodi (Leptadenia reticulata) and ‘shatavari’ (Asparagus recemosus) are fed for the same purpose. Seeds of hivlingi (Couroupita guianensis) can also be given to bring animal into heat (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Koradia (1995) 551 Bringing cattle into heat by use of bamboo leaves Feeding of bamboo leaves brings cattle into regular heat (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 552 Treatment of anestrus in buffaloes To get buffaloes into heat (anestrus) and control their cycle, feed them the shells of four to five eggs with the feed once a day. The buffalo comes into heat within a week. The reason for this is that the egg shells generate heat in the buffalo’s body (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Desai (1999a) 553 Bringing cattle into regular heat by use of jute plant Feeding of leaves of jute plant (about 2 to 2.5 kg) brings the animal into heat (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 276 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 554 Remedy to prevent bortion Sometimes foetus in cow or buffalo get aborted due to either injury or infectious reproductive diseases or feeding of some feed of ‘hot’ nature.(Farmers believe that some feed have hot nature and some have cold. Jaggery is hot and sugar is cold). To prevent abortion, farmers from Mangrol taluka feed pieces of stem of banana (Musa paradisiaca) plant. After conception, buffalo is fed 10-15 kg and cow is fed 5-10 kg pieces of stem of banana. It is fed for five times over a period of 2-3 days. It helps to reduce internal heat and improves the health. This practice has been in use for the last 30-40 years (Junagadh, Gujarat). Multani (1996) 555 Inhibiting repeat breeder Cows are sometimes not able to conceive inspite of being in heat. After siring them repeatedly the cow remains in heat. Such a condition is called a repeat breeder. This may be caused by certain bacteria called brucela. This causes infection in the uteral lining of the cow and that is the primary cause of the cow not being able to concieve. Roots of shankhavalli (Convolvulus microphyllus) are used for curing the infection. Approximately 100 g of root or bark of the shankhavalli is pounded and mixed with 300 ml of water and boiled. This concoction is filtered and then cooled. This is then given to the affected animal once a day for three days. This treatment cures the infection and soon afterward the cow is able to conceive (Anand, Gujarat). Parmar (1999) 556 Repeat breeding in dairy animals The study was conducted with the objective to document the indigenous technical knowledge followed by the farmers in treatement of dairy animals reproductive problems : The Karnal district of Haryana was selected. Random sampling technique was applied to select the villages and respondents. Three hundred respondents from twelve villages of six blocks, sixty from each land holding category( i.