 Adoption of integrated nutrient management in irrigated areas of rice and wheat for Chaukhutiya, Bhaisiyachanna, Someswar valley, Dwarahat, Syaldey valleys. 6. Popularization of soil and water conservation measures by pulse based intercropping, contour farming and shoulder bunds in particular rainfed areas of all blocks. 581 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 7. Promotion of soil testing kits in all blocks of this zone. Adoption of efficient irrigation techniques 1. Surface irrigation in laser levelled land 2. Micro- irrigation system in Citrus, Mango, Litchi, Guava and in Vegetables 3. Drip Irrigation in Green House Cultivation for Cut Flowers and Vegetables. Others 1. Cluster approach for holistic development. 2. Promotion of timely and local availability of high yielding varieties of all the cereal, pulse, High Value Crops like vegetable, fruits, spices, etc. 3. Cultivation of fodder crops & medicinal plants. 4. Adoption of only well decomposed FYM/ value added compost. 5. Promotion of efficient and timely use of IPM and IDM practices. 6. Compulsion of seed treatment through bio agent/ chemical in the cluster. 7. Adoption of moisture conservation practices. 8. Promotion to focus on timely weed management. Strategy 2 : Livestock: Goatry, Poultry, Fisheries 1. Selection of high milk breeds in buffaloes (Murrah) and cattle (Jersey, Red Sindhi, Gir and Shaiwal). 2. Establishment of Fodder Bank in each block to meet fodder requirement of area. 3. Establishment of milk chilling plant at Sult/Syaldey block of this zone. 4. Establisment of Mollases/Multinutrient feed block at Tarikhet 5. Promotion of Urea, Mollasses, Multinutrient Blocks at Nyaypanchayt level. 6. Establishment of hatcheries for need of broilor or croilor at block level like at Sult and Chaukhutiya. 7. Introduction and promotion of cross Heiffer by Artificial Insemination (AI) for increasing income of marginal farmer in all blocks. 8. Improvement of cattle health through vaccination and proper feeding. 9. Strengthening of traditional water bodies/rivulets with Mahaseer or carps at Mohan areas and Gaggas areas. 10. Popularisation of green fodder crops ie sorghum, lobia, maize, oat, berseem in all blocks. 11. Community pasture development at village level. 12. Planning for establishment of Gaushala at block level to rear unproductive cattles to avoid the damage crops in cultivated areas. Strategy 3 : Integrated Farming system 582 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules for 20 nali’s or 0.4 ha such as : Vegetable based – 18 nali protected cultivation + 2 nali composting and Goatry/ Poultry 1.