 It was assumed that a flock of 1000 sheep / goats with five-to-six-night stay on a piece of land of 1.32 acres may maintain the fertility of the field for 6 to 7 years. Milk was one of the important food items in the diet during the Mughal period. Narayanan (2015) argued that milk and various milk products including yoghurt, ghee and butter were also a fairly conspicuous part of the diet in many parts of the northern India. Therefore, many indigenous milk products like rabri, phirni, khir, etc. were very popular during Mughal period. Kulfi, a delicious frozen dairy dessert, often described as “traditional Indian ice cream” originated in the Mughal Empire in the 16th century. Krondl (2011) quoted from Ain-i-Akbari where Abu’l Fazl mentioned use of saltpeter for refrigeration as well as transportation of Himalayan ice to warmer areas to prepare delicious Kulfi. The horses were regarded as a status symbol in the Mughal society (Chowdhury 2017). The Mughal paid great attention to the horses due to its military, economic and political importance. Throughout the dominant Mughal period, 1526-1707, the Mughals maintained a larger cavalry force and it was their main military strength (Irvine 1903). Therefore, the science of horse achieved ultimate heights during the Mughal period. Chowdhury (2017) argued that though the Indian climate was not suitable for the horse-breeding, then, also, numerous personal or institutional breeding centers and studs were established all over the Mughal dynasty with state patronage. State even promoted cross breeding of indigenous horse with the imported horse like Arabian, Persian, and Turki horses. Baytars (veterinarian) was considered as one of the gentleman professions. The state also provided protection and patronage to the writers of the equine veterinary literature i.e., faras-namas which tells about the skills of animal-medical-wisdom for caring, healing and managing horses in the stable during Mughal era. 4. Animal husbandry during the British era The Company rule in India effectually started from 1757 and ended with the 1857 rebellion after which the British government directly ruled the country until the independence in 1947. Development of animal husbandry in India during the colonial era was as per the military and economic needs of the British Empire. They were initially interested in breeding and health care of only horses which were important for maintaining the cavalry. Later on, cattle rearing gained attention due to increase in demand of military establishments for animal food (milk and beef) leading to the establishment of Military dairy farms. Much of the scientific developments in the field of dairying in India started from these farms. The Britishers were least concerned about the requirements of common Indian people; however, they had to take steps for overall development whenever their interest was connected with the common people.