in/conservation • The first Indian immunobiological resource of the sequenced ‘Nanobodies’ generated: A library of Nanobodies (single-domain antibodies) of DNA sequences determined by Next-generation sequencing technology and analysed by bioinformatics tools. • Under urbanization effects on dietary diversification and nutritional status of adolescents in rural-urban interface, the first Community Project under ICAR, UAS (B), which has obtained Ethical Clearance for conducting community research work in the field of nutrition and health.The research focusses on having gender equality by giving prime importance to both the genders (adolescent boys and girls) in the field of nutrition and in this regard conducted various nutrition training programs using developed education materials. production process from ground pine needles conducted with recovery of 25% bio-oil. Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) The end to end digitisation of DBT onboarded schemes were initiated and completed for five schemes through NIC ServicePlus platform. The integration of the ServicePlus with Treasury Single Account (TSA) is underway for making the schemes live on ServicePlus. National Information System on Agricultural Education Education portal-ICAR (https://education.icar.gov.in) has been developed as a single window platform for providing vital education information/announcements/ events/schedules/e-learning resources from AUs across the country. All the components of the scheme of Agricultural Education Division are incorporated in this portal, with functions to upload demands, AUCs, unspent amount, reports, generation of sanction letter, etc. The portal has been updated for USID, along with interface with DARE DBT portal. Other important resources have been developed and have interface with education portal, viz. CBP, E-grant, Krishi Shiksha, Accreditation, AURS, AU- GRMS, Agri-Diksha, etc. Functionality was developed to receive Netaji Subhas - ICAR International Fellowship applications online for the year 2021–22. The submission of applications is linked with Education Portal. The portal was also strengthened with need based other functionalities. Reports were added on budget utilization and demand part for various schemes. Sanction letters were issued for grants of different schemes of Education Division. Module was developed for Experiential Learning (EL) program. The information on year-wise number of students trained, total income generated, profit shared per student and skill imparted, entrepreneurs developed as well as related data can be entered along with photographs. MIS reports were developed for tracking status of EL. This module was made functional for submitting the necessary information regarding EL modules in the Meeting of Experiential Learning Coordinators of SAUs organized by Education Division, ICAR.