in/GIRPublic/ Harmal chilli Dalle Khursani March–April 2023 89 pain. New therapeutic approach of capsaicin to combat obesity via increased fat oxidation has been reported. With emerging eco-friendly adoption of consumers and industries, there is a spike in exploration for bioactive compounds and plant extracts as natural ingredients for the cosmetic and pharmaceutical use. The substitution of natural ingredients in place of artificial preservatives could ensure the health properties of the pharmaceutical and cosmetic products, circumventing the contact allergies. There are various cases of paprika oleoresin to be used as cosmetic colourants in bath oils (https://de.lush.com/ search/site/paprika), shampoo, shower gels, and beauty products such as lipsticks and eye make-up (http://www. colormaker.com/naturalingredients). Pepper extracts containing high concentrations of zeaxanthin and lutein carotenoids are often used in facial and skin-care products as a serum or nutritional supplement (https://zss-skincare. com). A combination therapy with zeaxanthin as well as lutein enhanced skin elasticity and improved cutaneous hydration. The pepper by-products containing bioactive properties are successfully implemented by cosmeceutical industries for the production of various beauty products with no side effects. In India, due to continuous cultivation of Capsicum sp. for about 500 years and the crop being often cross- pollinated, number of landraces has been evolved. Among landraces, Byadagi chilli for colour and Naga Jalokia for pungency have gained popularity with potential industrial importance. Bydagi Dabbi, a famous local landrace of Karnataka, which is named after the village Bydagi of Haveri district, Karnataka, India, is known internationally for its deep red colour (150–200 ASTA Colour value) and low pungency. Byadgi pepper got the geographical indications certificate in September, 2010 exhibiting high export value. Bydagi chillies are grown especially in Bydagi area of Haveri district and Dharwad districts of Karnataka. There is huge demand for oleoresin extracted from Bydagi chillies across the globe especially USA, Japan and European countries. Apart from oleoresin, there are more than 25 industries in Byadagi that produce powder and supply to several masala manufacturers and now Bydagi area is known for several small-scale industries based on chilli cultivation providing lot of employment opportunities. The GI status will help to get higher prices and high net income to the farmers and also at International market. SUMMARY Chilli is commercial spice crop having wide industrial applications. Development of good agricultural practices specific to areas of cultivation will help in sustainable chilli production. Achievements made so far in chillies improvement and multidisciplinary approaches will help in transforming chilli cultivation into more sustainable and economical way to keep Indian chillies at pride globally.