 The application of suitable techniques plays the key role towards getting the full benefit from this residual material that can be accomplished through effective waste valorisation approaches. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Rohan Sarkar, Scientist, (Agricultural Chemicals) ICAR- Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: rohan.sarkar@icar. gov.in Infestation of lesser grain borer on roasted makhana seeds under storage The internal stored grain insect (lesser grain borer), Rhizopertha dominica (Coleoptera: Bostrichidae) was found infesting on the roasted makhana seeds of 3 standard size grades, i.e. 7 mm, 9 mm and 11 mm. It was recorded that insects preferred to feed on 11 mm size seeds, followed by 9 mm and 7 mm, respectively. Both grub and adult stages were able to cause substantial damage. The adult laid the eggs on the seeds by entering inside the kernels through the apical natural opening. The average temperature and relative humidity for R. dominica development was maintained as 32.5 ± 1°C and 70 ± 5°C, respectively. It took 35–50 days for completing its life cycle, which included four stages: egg, larva, pupa and adult. Females laid about 200–500 eggs in their lifetime, singly. Incubation period lasted for 5±0.3–9±0.4 days, while larval and pupal period took 30±5 and 8±2 days, respectively. Mean longevity of adult male and female was 26 and 17 weeks, respectively. The damage potential was assessed using the artificial infestation (purposive samples) with different numbers of tested insect. The study indicated that significant loss of roasted makhana seeds during 15 days of storage with 40±1.24% losses, caused by 10 adults per 100g seeds. The total quantitative losses observed for 6 months storage period was 64±1.16% in the samples with 10 adults per 100g of roasted makhana seeds. The initial losses were very high and became slow after 20 days. Presently available method of fumigation by aluminium phosphide was practised and found feasible for the insect control. Internal makhana feeding Lesser grain borer (adult and grub) Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 September–October 2023 53 Varieties developed for medicinal crops Increased demand for natural products is creating a high pressure on medicinal plants and natural resources, causing their severe depletion due to overexploitation and unsustainable collection practices. Improved varieties and methods for safe herbal raw material production help in bringing herbs under cultivation. ICAR- IIHR developed elite varieties of Aswagandha, Centella asiatica and Velvet bean. Technologies for safe production which can be adapted for medicinal crops are also available. The information on the available technologies for medicinal crop production at ICAR-IIHR are discussed here in this article. M EDICINAL plants have been utilised to treat ailments in human and animals since time immemorial.