 Occurrence of AM in spice crops Based on our observations, most of the spices possessed AM fungal spores as a regular component of the soil microflora. Especially spices like black pepper, ginger, turmeric and cardamom harbour endo mycorrhizae. It was also found that positive correlation between the C Sarathambal1, K Kandiannan2 and V Srinivasan3 Indian Horticulture 16 performance of black pepper cuttings and the percentage of root colonization by arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) fungi. The inoculation of AM fungi exhibited synergistic effects on the growth and nutrient absorption of black pepper cuttings. The protective effect of AM symbiosis accompanied by the systemic activation of genes involved in induced systemic resistance confers plant immunity against pathogens. Effect of AM (Rhizophagus irregularis) fungi on black pepper cuttings y AM enhances the rooting of black pepper cuttings and also increases root biomass as well as uptake of nutrients. y AM association with black pepper enhances the defense-related enzymes mainly peroxidases which ultimately provide protection from diseases. y AM pre-inoculation significantly increased the activity of pathogenesis-related genes CAPX (PR7), Osmotin (PR5) and -1,3-glucanase (PR2), phenylalanine ammonia-lyase (PAL) and NPR in black pepper leaves and roots upon Phytophthora inoculation. y AM inoculation increased the soil enzyme activity and other beneficial microbes of the black pepper rhizosphere. y AM increase in the biochemical defence parameters such as phenols, lignin and peroxidase activity was noticed upon AM application y The roots of black pepper plants produce fatty acids in response to arbuscular mycorrhizal (AM) colonization. These fatty acids help boost the plant’s immune response. Effect of arbuscular mycorrhizal inoculation on growth promotion and defence responses in black pepper Already several packages are available for AM fungi application in nurseries as well as under pot culture for horticulture crops. The method of AM application for black pepper is given below. Production methodology for AM-fortified black pepper cuttings Black pepper cuttings production involves preparing a nursery mixture with soil, farmyard manure, and sand (2:1:1 ratio). The mixture is solarized to eliminate pathogens and combined with Rhizophagus irregularis (AM fungus). For 100 kg potting mixture, one kg of arbuscular mycorrhizae (AM) will be added. Mycorrhizal spores of colonized crop roots, and viable mycorrhizal hyphae function as active propagules of AM fungi that can be used as inoculum to “infect” other plants. The AM inoculum will be prepared with vermiculite as the carrier, containing 100 propagules per gram of the inoculum in the form of spores, hyphae, and mycorrhizal roots. Black pepper cuttings are generally propagated by adopting a serpentine layering technique in the nursery mixture, enriched with arbuscular mycorrhizae. Single plant can produce 40-60 rooted cuttings annually.