2 All proposals/requests for holding a seminar/symposium or for printing and publication of journals, etc. once approved for financial assistance, shall not be included in the agenda for additional grant for the same purpose unless specifically mentioned in the proceedings of the previous meeting and approved by the competent authority. 8.3 The Director General, ICAR may sanction grants in favour of societies/bodies, in exceptional cases in anticipation of the Standing Committee’s approval, to be subsequently ratified by the Standing Committee. 9. Issue of sanction by ICAR indicating various conditions 9.1 Sanction for the financial assistance as approved by the competent authority will be issued which will include specific terms and conditions as detailed in Annexure (V). 9.2 In order to obtain feedback, the Council will depute/nominate scientist(s) from ICAR to every symposium/seminar/conference to which it has provided financial assistance without payment of the registration charges. Nominations may be made from nearby ICAR Institutes if it is not possible from ICAR Headquarters. 10. Undertaking to be given by the grantee Society/Institution. The grantee society/institution will have to give an undertaking that it agrees to be governed by the conditions of the grant and also to intimate in detail, about the creation or acquisition of permanent or semi-permanent assets resulting from the grant. 11. Release of grant The financial assistance to the society/body will be released on their acceptance of the terms and conditions as contained in the sanction letter. Initially ¾th amount of total sanctioned grant will be released by the Council, provided the AUC for ICAR grant received in previous year if any, and two copies of latest issue of journal (not more than one year behind the schedule) are made available by the society/body in the Council. All efforts would be made to release the grant about one month before holding of national/international seminar/symposium/ conference. The balance amount (¼th) will be released on receipt of AUC for the grant received from the Council and the feedback in the prescribed proforma [Annexure-VI] and detailed proceedings of the seminar/symposium/ conference/ meeting, etc. 12 Maintenance of Accounts by the grantee Society/Body/University/Institution. 12.1 The grantee society/body/university/institution will maintain a proper account of the grant received by it from the Council. 12.2 The grantee society/body will be required to submit its annual accounts, duly Audited by a recognized Auditor/Statuary Auditor together with the Audited Utilization Certificate to the Council by July of the succeeding year. 12.3 The account submitted by the grantee society/body will clearly reflect the utilization of the grant for the specific purpose/purposes for which it is sanctioned by the Council. 12.