 This variety is suitable for North-eastern Zone, comprising Chhattisgarh, Jharkhand, Bihar, Orissa, West Bengal, Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Manipur, Nagaland, Meghalaya and Mizoram. It matures in 93–100 days and has a yield potential of 0.18–0.20 tonne/ha, and is semi-determinate with violet flowers, yellow seeds and black hilum. RAUS 5. This variety is also suitable for North-eastern Zone. It matures in 96– 104 days with a yield potential of 3–3.5 tonnes/ha. The plants are determinate with tawny pubescence, violet flowers and yellow seeds. Two accessions PLSO 84 and UPSM 534 have been identified for resistance against yellow mosaic virus at Ludhiana. Crop Production The system efficiency of soybean-wheat was found higher than soybean-chickpea. Application of crop residue at 5 tonnes/ha + FYM at 5 tonnes/ha + Zn at 5 kg/ha along with the recommended level of fertilizers in the soybean-wheat cropping system gave highest soybean equivalent yield. A seed-coverer with V notch on a square plate of suitable size has been developed for soybean. This device helps in covering left-over (15–20%) seeds, and has been found to support good germination and appropriate plant density. To mitigate drought effects and conserve adequate soil moisture, a key line- seeding machine has been developed and farm validated at the NRCS. The machine facilitates planting of 5 rows at the recommended planting distance and simultaneously opens one row each on either side (fresh depth is about 20 cm which turns out to about 15 cm after settling) for facilitating removal of excess water and/ or percolation of water in soil. This costs approximately Rs 12,000. Crop Protection Entomopathogenic fungus Beauveria bassiana caused 30–40% mortality of green semilooper larvae Chrysodeixis acuta on soybean. Chitin inhibitors Diflubenzuron and Lufenuron effectively controlled all major lepidopteran defoliating larvae, with mortality ranging from 40 to 97.5% in the laboratory conditions. Bacillus thuringiensis based microbial insecticide (Dipel at 1 litre/ha) alone or in tank-mix combination with Monocrotophos 36 SL (at 0.8 litre/ha) gave significant control on defoliators and stem-fly (Melanogromyza sojae), with yield advantage of about 30% over control. PK 472 has been identified as a variety possessing high degree of resistance to powdery mildew. SUNFLOWER Crop Improvement Three new hybrids of sunflower have been released for cultivation. Line PS 1089 derived from Helianthus argophyllus × cultivated cultivar and two lines (PS 2011, PS 2032) derived from H. petiolaris × cultivar crosses have been found immune to rust disease.