 India uses 90 per cent of its groundwater for irrigation and has been grossly over-extracting, leading to falling water tables. By recent World Bank Prof. Bina Agrawal is a Professor of Development Economics and Environment at the Global Development Institute, The University of Manchester, UK. She writes on diverse but interconnected subjects property, land rights and livelihoods; environmental governance, sustainable development and collective action; agriculture, technology and food security; poverty and institutional transformation; legal change; and intersecting inequalities. 42 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series estimates, 65 per cent of India’s blocks will be over-extracting groundwater by 2030. Free electricity has contributed particularly to this over-extraction. No state has metered groundwater use, except West Bengal. Groundwater is a common. But rich farmers treat it like a private resource, overdrawing heavily. Moreover, 37 per cent of India’s geo-area is degraded, with large parts facing water logging and soil salinity or contaminated by excessive use of chemicals. With climate change, India’s crop yields are also predicted to fall sharply. Technologically, we are far behind in terms of investing in water conserving technology and climate resilient crops. Institutionally, India is still dependent on very small family farms: 86 per cent of farmers cultivate 2 ha or less, often in fragments. And they occupy almost 50 per cent of operated area. They have limited access to land, inputs, extension, credit and markets. Most are too small to effectively use even machinery. Small farm size reduces economic viability. Overall farm incomes are low and erratic. While prices and markets are important, these smallholders can only gain if they first produce enough net surplus to sell. At present, 70 per cent of farmers produce barely 4-5 per cent of marketed surplus in wheat and rice, even in surplus producing states; and only a small per centage gain from MSPs. Hence, many farmers say they would prefer another job. An NSSO survey asked over 50,000 farmers: do you like farming? Forty per cent said they did not, including poor farmers, women, as also better-off farmers, especially young educated ones (see Agarwal, B. & Agrawal, A. 2017. ‘Do farmers really like farming?’ Oxford Development Studies, 45/4). Also agriculture’s allied sectors “livestock, fisheries and forests“ have vast unused potential, as does the wider rural economy which, at present, lacks synergy with agriculture. These problems cannot be solved by focusing only on prices. Higher prices and market reforms can benefit smallholders only if we first address their production constraints. There are three types of constraints-ecological, technological and institutional-which need solutions. Ecological and technological solutions To begin with, we need to regenerate our water and soils.