 Sequences were aligned and com- pared using the multiple sequence alignment tool, CLUSTAL W and a phylogenetic tree was constructed employing the neighbour joining method (Saitou and Nei, 1987). The Program used for phy- logenetic tree construction is MEGA X (Kumar et al., 2018). 2.5. Characterization of soil actinomycetes based on pigment formation, growth pattern and mycelium formation Cultural characteristics of all the actinomycete isolates were examined on four different ISP (International Streptomyces Pro- ject) media viz., ISP1, 2, 3 and 7, incubated at 28 ± 2 C for 14 days. Morphological characteristics like pigment formation, growth pat- tern (recorded under three categories viz., poor, moderate and Good) and the colour of aerial and substrate mycelium were recorded. 2.6. Antifungal activity against phytopathogenic fungi Four phytopathogenic fungi viz., Fusarium udum (NAIMCC-F- 02017), Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. ciceris (NAIMCC-F-00889), Macrophomina phaseolina (NAIMCC-F-01260) and Sclerotium rolfsii (NAIMCC-F-01638) were collected from NAIMCC. They were grown on potato dextrose agar plates with an incubation at 28 ± 2 C for 24–120 h and maintained on PDA slants and mineral oil for further use. Freshly grown cultures were used for antifungal assays. A dual culture assay was employed to test the antagonistic activity of Streptomyces spp. against four selected phytopathogens. SCA and PDA in the ratio of 1:1 was used as a medium to test the antagonis- tic activity. Fresh cultures of the bacterium were inoculated on two M. Kumar, P. Tiwari, M.T. Zeyad et al. Journal of King Saud University – Science 35 (2023) 102619 2 sides of the plate with the selected medium. The centre of the plate was inoculated with fresh mycelium of the test pathogens and the plates were incubated at 28 ± 2 C for 96 h. Plates were observed twice a day during incubation for inhibition zones. Plates inocu- lated with test pathogen alone were also incubated simultaneously as a control. The zone of inhibition and percent inhibition of fungi were calculated using the following formula. Zone of inhibition ¼ F  A Percent inhibition PI ð Þ ¼ F  A ð Þ=F ½   100 where F = radius of fungal growth from the centre (cm) in the con- trol plate. A = the radius of radial fungal growth from the centre (cm) in the dual culture plate. 3. Results 3.1. Actinomycetes community composition Isolation on the selective media resulted in a total of sixty-ﬁve isolates from 40 samples collected from Tamil Nadu (Table 1). Identiﬁcation based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing and blast search against type species database revealed that these 65 isolates were afﬁliated to two genera belonging to Streptomyces and Nocardiopsis (Fig. 1). 3.2. Streptomyces The genus Streptomyces represents 45 isolates accounting for 67.69 % of the total isolates. It was represented by 18 species viz., S griseus (4), S. anulatus (3), S. microﬂavus (2), S. covourensis (1), S. araujoniae (3), S. zhihengii (1), S.