 In the report, the course curricula have been restructured and reoriented to develop much needed skills and entrepreneurial mind-set among the graduates to take up self-employment, to sustainably enhance rural livelihood security, and to propel agricultural transformation through science informed policy options and actions. The Rural Awareness Work Experience (RAWE) imparts diagnostic and remedial knowledge to students relevant to rural field situations through practical training. The communication skills of students are strengthened by the use of extension teaching methods for the transfer of technology. Students are encouraged to develop their confidence and competence to solve agricultural problems. RAWE also acquaints students with on-going extension and rural development programs. The RAWE primarily helps the students to understand the rural situations, status of agricultural technologies adopted by the farmers to prioritize the farmers’ problems and to develop skills & attitude of working with farm families for overall development in rural area. The timings for RAWE are made flexible for specific regions to coincide with the main cropping season. 3.2. Education for self-reliance Gandhiji advocated, “Education should be made self-supporting through some productive work. Education should lead to economic independence and self-reliance for livelihood.” The academic programmes in agriculture and allied sciences in ICAR have been designed to create human resources who would become “Job Providers rather than Job Seekers”. Further, 147 these programmes have been declared as Professional Courses. The word ‘experiential’ essentially means that learning and development are achieved through personally determined experience and involvement, rather than on received teaching or training, typically in group, by observation, study of theory or hypothesis, and bring in innovation or some other transfer of skills or knowledge. Experiential Learning (EL) is a business curriculum-related endeavor, which is interactive. ICAR has established about 480 EL facilities in Agricultural Universities. The EL is for building (or reinforcing) skills in project development and execution, decision making, individual and team coordination, approach to problem solving, accounting, marketing and resolving conflicts, etc. The programme has end-to-end approach. Carefully calibrated activities move participants to explore and discover their own potential. Both activities and facilitation play a critical role in enhancing team performance. The EL provides the students an excellent opportunity to develop analytical and entrepreneurial skills, and knowledge through meaningful hands on experience, confidence in their ability to design and execute project work. The experiential learning programme is being offered for 180 days (one semester) period in the final year.