 ŠŠ Females and males are given injection of commercial formulation such as Ovaprim/Ovatide/ Gonopro FH @ 0.5 ml/kg and 0.3 ml/kg body weight, respectively. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 6-8 h. A female lays 3-4 lakh eggs/kg body weight. The eggs are non- adhesive and semi-buoyant, which at hydration measure diameter of 2.4 mm. ŠŠ Eggs are shifted to hatching hapa/hatching tanks, where hatching occurs in 18-22 h. Spawn stage is achieved in 72 h, when they are transferred to the nursery. ŠŠ Spawn is reared in outdoor nursery ponds/concrete tanks for raising fry, where they grow to 25 mm in 25-30 days. ŠŠ The technology of seed production is largely adopted in West Bengal, Odisha, Assam and Uttar Pradesh. 12 Olive Barb Systomus sarana sarana (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Olive barb is distributed all along from Afghanistan to Indian sub-continent and Thailand. Popular cultivable barb in eastern and north-eastern parts of India and commands high market price. ŠŠ Maturity is attained in the first year. However, captive breeding is undertaken with 2+ year age class. Sexes are distinguished on maturity with females having bulged abdomen, and males are slender and exude white-milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ For mass-scale seed production, several pairs of fully mature female and male in the ratio of 1:1 are selected and induced bred with single injection of commercial hormone, Ovaprim/ Ovatide/Wova-FH @ 0.3 and 0.15 ml/kg to females and males, respectively. ŠŠ Injected brooders are shifted to a spawning tank of carp circular hatchery. Bunches of aquatic weed such as Hydrilla verticillata are kept in spawning tank to facilitate spawning and for attachment of eggs. ŠŠ Spawning occurs after 8-11 h of injection. The weed bunches with attached eggs are transferred to a hatching tank having provision for regular flow of water. ŠŠ Hatching occurs in 14-15 h. Yolk-sac is absorbed in 45-50 h, and free swimming spawn of 4-5 mm length is obtained with average recovery of 70,000-80,000 spawn/kg female body weight. ŠŠ Spawn is reared to fry size in concrete tanks with 1m water depth at stocking density of 1,000-1,500 spawn/m2 and 500-1,000 spawn/m2 in earthen ponds. Survival levels of 50-70% are obtained in concrete tanks in 1 month rearing period. ŠŠ The breeding and seed production technology is being expanded in the states of Odisha and West Bengal. Compiled by: Dr Pratap Chandra Das More information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar, Odisha Email: director.cifa@icar.gov.in 13 Compiled by: Dr S.G.S. Zaidi and Dr D. Sarma More information: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research, Bhimtal, Uttarakhand Email: director.dcfr@icar.gov.in Chaguni Chagunius chagunio (Hamilton, 1822) ŠŠ Chaguni is distributed in the Ganga and Brahmaputra drainages of north and north-eastern India, Nepal and Bangladesh. It grows to about 50 cm and constitutes important fish of low to moderate cold climate areas.