 Although the authors did not justify the higher plant height seen from the powder than powder method extracts, it could be that in the powder extracts, the nutrients are in liquid form and are readily available for use by the plant. Meanwhile, the powders must be broken down by microorganisms in the soil and dissolved before their nutrients become available. This can also explain why the 1 g performed better than the 6 g, i.e., 1 g decomposed faster than the 6 g. Elucidation of the type of interaction that liquid powder extract and powder organic fertilizers have with the soil and plant can pave the way toward understanding their influence. Interestingly, other studies have shown that plant health and the growth parameters of BPs become better with the amount of BP powder applied [67]. Characterizing the banana powders in terms of the chemicals and minerals present could help us understand contradicting performances, because banana peels from different regions/countries could have varied chemical properties. To address these chemical differences, highly developed technologies are used, includ- ing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) and infrared (IR) and X-ray spectroscopy, which are capable of providing critical insights into the composition of the molecules and ele- ments of banana peel-based fertilizers [68–70]. For instance, NMR is capable of identifying specific metabolites and bioactive compounds in banana peels, especially phenolics and carotenoids, and their nutritional value [71]. The detailed molecular profiling obtained aids in explaining the differences in the release of nutrients, rate of degradation, and the overall efficiency of fertilizers [72]. FTIR analysis has identified critical functional groups in banana peels that are essential for the binding and release of nutrients, including phenols, amino acids, and alcohol [73]. X-ray spectroscopy, on the other hand, provides precise data on elements by illustrating the concentration of essential plant nutrients, which are critical for plant health [74]. The importance of such results lies in their ability to standardize and improve the efficiency of banana peel fertilizers for improved agricultural results. Seasonal differences have a meaningful impact on the chemical make-up of banana peels, especially their key metabolite levels, and this was shown by a study conducted by Cardoso et al. [69]. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 8 of 24 Therefore, for a better understanding of these chemical variations, employing a combination of the mentioned technologies, i.e., NMR, X-ray, and IR, for the characterization of banana peels from different regions is worthwhile. This will also assist in adjusting the processing methods used to ascertain consistent and maximized fertilizer performance.