 Further, Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu, Karnataka and Orissa, together accounting for 60% of the India’s tank irrigated area, have lost about 37% of the area irrigated Declining performance of tank system in south India Performance of canal irrigation system SOCIAL SCIENCES AND POLICIES 163 by tanks during 1965–2000. Physical strengthening and improvements of the inflow, storage and distribution systems are needed. Water users in tank commands need to be involved in planning and implementing the rehabilitation strategies. Physical and Financial Sustainability Physical and Financial Sustainability Physical and Financial Sustainability Physical and Financial Sustainability Physical and Financial Sustainability Currently, irrigation accounts for more than 1/3rd of states’ revenue deficits. In Orissa, gross irrigated area from surface irrigation sources accounts for 64% of irrigation potential created. Average operation and maintenance (O and M) expenditure remained low at 30% of the desired level. Weighted water rate, based on revised water tariff in 1998, was low at Rs 104/ha. Current water rate demand from irrigation charges is 50% of potential demand. All these factors culminated in cost recovery of 25%. In Gujarat, actual O and M expenditure is one-fourth of the requirement. With average water charge remaining at Rs 165/ha, cost recovery is only 33%. Andhra Pradesh and Haryana have registered low cost recovery of 26% and 41%, respectively, under current account. Physical sustainability of the irrigation infrastructure calls for need based O and M funding. Water user groups need to be empowered with the management responsibilities as well. Several states are in the process of finalizing state-water plans, institutionalizing farmer organizations in irrigation management and periodic review of water charges, improving assessment and collection procedures and prioritizing irrigation expenditures. GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN FOODGRAINS MARKET GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN FOODGRAINS MARKET GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN FOODGRAINS MARKET GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN FOODGRAINS MARKET GOVERNMENT INTERVENTION IN FOODGRAINS MARKET Changing Context Changing Context Changing Context Changing Context Changing Context Demand and supply scenario for agriculture in India has undergone profound changes during last 10–15 years. Farm price policy and policy for food management have to be changed to adjust to new situation and to check serious imbalances in production and several other problems like accumulation of huge grain stocks, increase in food subsidy bill, neglect of efficiency and quality, resulting in setback to private trade and regional bias in government support to agriculture. Average availability of cereals has followed a decline in the recent years. The decline in per capita availability of cereals is neither a result of slack in production nor it is due to export of cereals.