 Walk-in tunnels can be used for off-season cultivation of vegetables by protecting them against extreme low temperature during the peak winter months. Mainly, cucurbitaceous vegetables are grown under these structures, but these structures can also be used for other crops which will have erect and compact canopy like capsicum, lettuce, bush type beans, etc. They are also suitable for nursery raising. Plastic low tunnels Low temperature is causing significant loss to rabi or late rabi crops in the region. A physical barrier in way of the air flow and use of plastic sheet can reduce the Tomato in polyhouse Tomato in insect proof net-house Tomato in polyhouse Tomato in insect proof net-house Indian Horticulture 40 extent of loss to the crop. These structures are laid in open fields to cover rows of plants with transparent plastic film stretched over steel hoops of about 50 cm height and about 1 m width. Low tunnels are supported above the plants by using hoops of GI wire and a clear or transparent plastic sheet of 20–30 micron is covered/stretched over the hoops and the sides are secured by placing in soil. These are also called miniature greenhouses. The concept of using plastic low tunnel is very effective in early crop stage when the crop is having low strength to face low temperature stress. It protects plants from harsh climatic conditions such as rain, wind, hailstorm and snow etc. These are mainly used for raising nursery and also helps in early seed germination. The farmers can grow different varieties of summer squash (round fruited, long fruited), which is an emerging crop along with cultivation of netted muskmelon varieties in place of traditional varieties. Bitter gourd and round melon are two other crops with increasing demand and which usually fetches very high price during off-season and can be grown successfully by using the plastic low tunnel technology. This technology is highly suitable and profitable for the farmers living in northern plains of India. Plastic mulching Plastic mulching technology, also called surface covered cultivation, largely involves mulching with polythene sheets for addressing three major issues, viz. soil and water conservation, leaching of nutrients as well as reduction of weeds and to some extent insect pest damage. Drip irrigation is an integral part of mulching technology. Mulching involves covering the soil around the plant base with an organic or inorganic material which makes condition more favourable for plant growth and development. Organic mulches, like leaves, straw, sawdust etc. add nutrients and humus to the soil as they decompose, improving its tilth and moisture holding capacity. Synthetic or plastic mulches have various beneficial effects on crop production. Plastic mulch accelerates plant growth by increasing soil temperature, conserving soil moisture, weed control, production of quality produce and reduction in leaching of nutrients.