 Very little oxygen added once the saturated condition below the water table was encoun­ tered [49]. In general aquifer water is chemically diluted from the minerals and natural salt present in rocks [48]. The water quality is tempered by the percolation of rainwater and stagnant waste water which mixes other salts and heavy metals in the aquifer. Major changes in groundwater showed its first sign in the soil above the water table [49].The soil zone showed as a thin layer in a hydrological cycle con­ tains strong influence on the geochemistry of the adjoining ground­ water. It holds the ability to produce carbolic acid (H2CO3) that occurs when carbon dioxide (CO2) combines with water (H2O). 3.4. Cluster analysis HCA is a very effective data mining method. Ward’s technique with squared Euclidean distance as a similarity metric yielded visually rele­ vant dendrograms [45]. Different groupings of location were done in this study after careful consideration of possible combinations of sim­ ilarity/dissimilarity values. The HCA of data sets collected during different sampling periods yielded two results (Fig. 6). The variables were subjected to HCA in order to group them into clusters. The dendrograms are manufactured with the help of multiple clusters; each of them holds one or more variables. Clusters are selected based on a graphic assessment of the dendrogram to aid interpretation [50]. Based on the dendrogram it was found that during both seasons, out of total nineteen sampling stations, nine clusters were formed. The numbers of clusters were comparatively high to the number of sampling locations. Hence the next hierarchy of the clusters (six) was chosen for the pre­ sentation of similarities of groundwater quality [51]. During PRM season, Dodhpur, BSJ Hall, Ambedkar Park, Kalideh, Mulla Para and Malkhan Singh Hospital (GW 11, 15, 10, 18, 17, 4) forms cluster together. Pratibha Colony, Press Colony and Avas Vikas Colony (GW 3, 13, 2) shared similar water quality. Dhobi ghat and Shiwalik Ganga Phase-IV near Quarsi (GW 6, 7) were having similar water quality. Patel Nagar and Double Tanki Colony (GW 19, 1) were homo­ geneous in water quality nature. Gandhi Eye Hospital, Sootmill, V.R. Apartment at Ramghat road along with Jama Masjid (GW 9, 14, 8, 5) shared close relation of water quality. Student Union Hall and JNMC (GW 12, 16) made indistinguishable water quality. During POM season, there were six clusters formed where Gandhi Eye Hospital, Sootmill, V.R. Apartment at Ramghat road, Jama Masjid, Double Tanki Colony (GW 9, 14, 8, 5, 1) formed cluster together. Stu­ dent Union Hall and Mulla Para (GW 12, 17) showed similar water quality. Dhobi Ghat and Shiwalik Ganga Phase IV near Quarsi (GW 6, 7) were sharing similar water quality. Homogeneous water quality was found at Avas Vikas Colony, Pratibha Colony and Press Colony (GW 2, 3, 13). Ambedkar Park, BSJ Hall, Dodhpur, Kalideh and Malkhan Singh Fig. 3. (continued). Fig. 4.