: 011-23794697 / 98, Fax: 011-23794696 120  H ealthy food contributes to healthy society. Though we have achieved record food grain production in recent past, widespread malnutrition in the country remains worrisome. Malnutrition not only affects growth and development in humans, but also causes severe economic loss. Nutritious grains rich in essential nutrients play pivotal role in providing balanced food in sustainable manner. I am pleased to learn that Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) led National Agricultural Research System (NARS) has developed and released 87 nutrition-rich crop cultivars in important crops like rice, wheat, maize, pearl millet, finger millet, small millet, lentil, groundnut, linseed, mustard, soybean, cauliflower, potato, sweet potato, greater yam and pomegranate. These cultivars have been improved for essential nutrients viz., iron, zinc, calcium, protein, lysine, tryptophan, provitamin-A, anthocyanin, vitamin-C, oleic acid and linoleic acid. The concentration of several anti-nutritional factors viz., erucic acid, glucosinolates and trypsin inhibitor has been significantly reduced in some of the cultivars. Off-flavour of soybean grains has also been reduced. These biofortified cultivars with balanced concentration of nutrients are also high yielding, thus ideal for meeting country’s ‘food and nutrition security’. I am sure that the bulletin entitled ‘Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition’ would serve as the catalyst to achieve ‘food and nutrition security’ in the country, and remove malnutrition in all forms by 2030 as envisaged in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). (KAILASH CHOUDHARY) MESSAGE dSyk'k pkS/jh KAILASH CHOUDHARY Ñf"k ,oa fdlku dY;k.k jkT; ea=kh Hkkjr ljdkj MINISTER OF STATE FOR AGRICULTURE & FARMERS WELFARE GOVERNMENT OF INDIA Office : 199Q, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110 001. Tel. : +91-11-23782343, 23388165 Fax : 23074190  H ealth is wealth – the age-old saying has paramount importance in the wake of COVID-19 pandemic. Balanced nutrition plays the central role in the growth and development of mind and body, and contributes to the societal and economic well-being. Malnutrition affects people of all ages including infants, young children, adolescent girls, pregnant women, adult women and men, besides elderly people. So it is our utmost duty as citizen to contribute to the nation’s growth by alleviating malnutrition in all forms by 2030 as envisaged by the United Nations. Though various strategies viz., ‘food-fortification’, ‘medical-supplementation’ and ‘dietary- diversification’ are used to alleviate malnutrition, they do not offer sustainable solution as these avenues are often limited by lack of purchasing power, robust distribution systems and crop seasonality. On the contrary, ‘crop biofortification’ has emerged as the preferred choice as it is sustainable and cost-effective, and nutrients reach the target people in natural form.