 TRP also causes stress, chronic pain, and systemic infections, which negatively impact the animal’s reproductive health. This can lead to delayed conception, increased instances of abortion, and extended calving intervals. Additionally, TRP reduces feed efficiency, increases labour costs, raises culling rates on the farm, and adversely affects animal welfare. To prevent TRP in ruminants, a variety of practices with significant economic benefits are recommended. Environmental management on dairy farms is crucial, particularly maintaining clean feeding areas. It is essential to ensure that feed storage and distribution areas are free of foreign objects such as nails, wire, and metal fragments. Regular cleaning and maintenance of barns, feeding troughs, and other equipment can help prevent contamination. Placing large magnets in feed troughs and small cylindrical oral magnets in the animal’s reticulum aids in capturing metallic objects in the feed. Purchasing high-quality feed and screening it for metal fragments also helps prevent TRP. Animals can be periodically screened with X-rays to detect potential cases of TRP. Good farm maintenance practices, including debris removal and the inspection and repair of fences, machinery, and other equipment, further prevent the ingestion of foreign objects. While these measures may involve some initial costs, they Indian Farming 26 October 2024 significantly reduce the incidence of TRP, leading to better productivity, lower veterinary expenses, and overall herd health improvement. Challenges A baseline survey of the adopted villages was conducted in 2016-17, supplemented with focused group discussions (FGDs) in the following years, which revealed that TRP, or Hardware Disease, is prevalent in the area. Since farmers in the project area own animals of high genetic merit, the valuation of these animals is substantial. The loss of any such animal significantly impacts farm economics. An investigation into the probable causes of TRP in the area indicated that metallic parts from equipment and machines used by farmers for farm operations were entering the feed and fodder of the animals, ultimately being ingested. Due to agricultural mechanization and an intensive farming system, many machines are used for harvesting fodder for animals. Loose nuts, metal shreds, wires, and other metallic debris from these machines inadvertently mix with the fodder. Furthermore, during feed milling operations, metallic objects can enter the feed, which is then consumed by dairy animals. The increased use of syringes for administering medicine to animals, automatic scrapers for cleaning, milking machines, barbed wires, iron chains, loose fencing, and other equipment has also led to a rise in TRP incidences in the project area. In response to this issue, necessary interventions were formulated, including awareness and demonstration camps in the project area.