 This graph illustrates the impact that various inputs (crop cultivation) have on the degree of global warming. In cotton, maize, wheat, and sugar­ cane, fuel (diesel) and N2O were found to be the most significant sources of CO2 emissions, whereas methane (CH4) was found in paddy. Every operation, from tillage to harvesting, explicitly uses fuel (diesel), which has a direct impact on emissions. Paddy had the highest CH4 share (60.4%), followed by electricity (18.1). Methane emissions is significant contributor of GHGE as paddy is grown in flooded fields. With the exception of flooded rice, fertilization variability is the main cause of variation in GHGE for crops. The findings showed that, methane emissions (3850 kg CO2 eq.ha−1) were the main source for CO2 emissions in paddy but for all other crops under investigation, electricity and fuel (diesel) were the main sources of CO2 emissions.Paddy was found to have the greatest GHGE, reporting off-farm emissions coming in at 300.41 kg CO2 eq.ha−1 and on-farm emissions coming in at 6418.35 kg CO2 eq.ha−1, respectively. Spring wheat emits between 600 kg and 1400 kg of carbon per hectare yearly, according to GHGE studies based in Canada [68]. The calculated GHGE by wheat in India are regarded as lower compared to this range, ac­ cording to a study from Sweden that found GHGE by wheat in the range of 0.2–0.6 kg CO2 eq. kg−1 of output [69]. Researchers from all over the world have conducted studies on determining carbon emissions, and they have provided the different ranges of emissions for different crops. For example, in China, every year, the emissions from paddy were noted to ranging between 2000 kg CO2 eq. ha−1 (upland rice) and 20,000 kg CO2 eq. ha−1 (lowland rice [69]. Among crops, paddy cultivation is unquestionably linked to the greatest GHGE. Methane emissions from the paddy’s flooded cultivation have been noted as a major contributor of GHG emissions. Methane emissions can be greatly suppressed by optimizing the utilization of drainage and manure [70,71], and imple­ menting better water management systems [72].The use of periodic irrigation instead of flood irrigation has showed the potential to sub­ stantially mitigate CH4 emissions. Although N2O emissions may rise during periodic irrigation, this effect is offset by a reduction in methane emissions [72,73]. India-specific management possibilities to mitigate GHGE involve adopting organic manure, cutting back on the usage of synthetic fertilizers, and improving water systems [73]. 4. Conclusion and policy options to improve energy use efficiency and GHG emissions The goal of the current study was to evaluate the efficiency of energy input use in Punjab crop production as well as the impact of crop- specific farming practices to the carbon footprints.