 vulgaris In vitro antimicrobial profile against S. typhi 31 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture dehydration and faecal consistency scores in both parasitic and non-parasitic diarrhoeic goats. The results indicated that gurhul flower juice has astringent effect and can be used as supportive therapy. At CIRG, Makhdoom the clinical efficacy was assessed on the basis of revival of appetite, faecal consistency, dehydration status and changes in serum biochemical parameters. The overall therapeutic efficacy of the ITK was 66.7%. It was noted that the flower juice was moderately effective in bacterial diarrhoea in goats. Serum glucose and sodium and potassium levels increased slightly after the treatment. Qualitative analysis of the extract revealed the presence of flavonoids, glycosides, tannin, alkaloids and carbohydrates. Conclusion The initial validation study using ITK (flower juice of gurhul) for the treatment of diarrhoea was conducted at Veterinary College, BAU, Ranchi. The use of gurhul-flower juice proved effective in the treatment of diarrhoea in goats. But recovery period following treatment by the ITK was more than that by the standard veterinary therapy. Further trial for cross- sectoral validation was done at Veterinary College, MASFSU Nagpur and CIRG, Makhdoom. Both studies recorded a moderate degree of effectiveness of the ITK against parasitic and E.coli diarrhoea in goats. However, the juice did not reveal any antibacterial activity. The presence of flavonoids, tannins and alkaloids may be responsible for the efficacy of the ITK in diarrhoea. 7.10 Treatment of diarrhoea in animals (goats and sheep) Description of the ITK Goat and sheep suffering from diarrhoea are treated with pojo (Litsaea anthapoly) plants. The paste is prepared by crushing the pojo plant. It is fed to animal @ 6 cup of pojo paste daily for 3 days. Villagers believe that pojo plant has medicinal value, controls diarrhoea and prevents dehydration. This wisdom is being used for ancient times without modification. About 40% goats suffer from diarrhoea in the village from where the ITK is reported. Out of these, 30% cases of diarrhoea are treated by the method of ITK, 5% remain untreated and 5% are treated by some other medicines. Name and address of the discloser Shri Veeresh Kumar, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand). Location of use of the ITK Sose, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand). Experimenters Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. S. Haque, Head, Dr. P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College and Dr. R.P. Singh ‘Ratan’, BAU, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand). Central Institute of Research on Goats (CIRG) Dr. V.S. Vihan, Principal Scientist and Head, Dr. Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr. Rajneesh Rana, Scientist (Senior Scale), Animal Health Division, CIRG, Makhdoom, Mathura, 281 122 (U.P.).