 After 7 days of application, the safe and stable phyto formulations provided > 85% activity against acaricide-resistant field ticks. Generation of BMPR-1B gene edited goats using CRISPR/Cas technology: The pcDNA3.1 vector containing spCas9-HF1 gene was constructed and FecXGr and FecXO specific primers were designed to synthesize DNA template of sgRNA followed by in vitro transcription and purification of sgRNA. To use as HDR template, Asymmetric ssODNs for FecXGr and FecXO were designed. CRISPR components in the RNP formats along with ssODNs were electroporated into the in vitro matured oocytes followed by in vitro fertilization and culture for 7 days for further embryonic development. Effect of F10 formulation on the gross structure of gut of treated ticks. (A) Gut ofnormal ticks; (B) Damaged gut of treated ticks Field efficacy of the formulations in multi-locational field trials 7 days post treatment (dpt) Amplified genomic DNA was subjected to T7E1 assay to determine the genome editing. The editing efficiency for FecXGr and FecXO edited goat embryos was 58.90 and 50.94%, respectively. The mono and bi-allelic percentage as revealed in the in vitro cleavage assay for FecXGr edited embryos was 79.17 and 20.83%, respectively; and for FecXO edited embryos 76.54 and 23.46%, respectively. Improving the usability of buffalo spermatozoa by sperm surface remodelling and immune acceptance in female reproductive tract: Whole proteomic profile of high and low fertile buffalo bull spermatozoa, using label free LC-MS/MS analysis could identify1,064 (85.2%) and 968 (77.5%) proteins in high and low fertility group spermatozoa, respectively out of which 782 (62.6%) proteins were common to both groups and 349 proteins were differentially-expressed between the high and low fertility spermatozoa. One- hundred-ninety four proteins were up-regulated and 155 proteins were down- regulated in high fertility spermatozoa as compared to low fertility spermatozoa. The proteins like AKAP4, AKAP3, SP17, PDIA3, Testis specific 10, GLIPR1-like protein and cylicin-1, etc. were highly expressed in high fertile bull whereas Angiotensin-converting enzyme, Acrosin-binding protein, Calmodulin, Cilia and flagella associated protein 52, dihydrolipoyl dehydrogenase, growth hormone inducible transmembrane protein etc., were highly upregulated in low fertility bulls. Double digest restriction-site associated (ddRAD) sequencing of the gDNA of 10 Murrah buffalo bulls, 5 each from high and low fertile categories, could identify 415 SNPs in 42 candidate genes affecting immune response traits. Copy number variations (CNVs) studies of CD52, CD55, CD59, CD46, PTGS1 and Man2a2 genes, selected on the basis of their immune related function, could not establish any major differences of fertility between the two groups of animals.