 In the area of exchange of genetic resources, 5 cases received from friendly foreign governments/government sponsored agencies/ International Organization agencies were processed in accordance with the provisions of Biodiversity Act and further guidelines were notified in this regard. Approval of competent authority in respect of 4 cases was conveyed. Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is an international organization having close collaboration with Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). It works through its 15 research centres. India is a donor member of CGIAR System from decades. Accordingly, it contributes to CGIAR System through Plan and Non- Plan budget provision. India is a funding member of the erstwhile CGIAR as a consortium and now the same consortium has been converted to a System Organization having its headquarter in Paris under the aegis of the World Bank. India is one of the founding members of the new organization representing the developing world i.e. South Asia Constituency of the CGIAR System Council along with other two alternate representatives from South Asia namely Bangladesh and Sri Lanka. Under such circumstances, India has assumed important role in CGIAR System as a permanent voting member. This responsibility requires reciprocation from India also. CENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITIES The Central Agricultural Universities are sponsored by DARE. Activities of the Universities situated in CAU Imphal (Manipur), RLBCAU Jhansi (Uttar Pradesh) and RPCAU Pusa (Bihar) are given here. CAU, Imphal The University research aims at developing agricultural technologies/practices which can bring about a far reaching impact on production, productivity and profitability of crops, animals and fishes through sustainable and eco-friendly scientific approaches for socio-economic upliftment of the people of NEH Region. To fulfil the research objectives of the university, a number of need based location specific internally and externally funded basic, strategic and applied research projects are being taken up in constituent colleges and the Directorate of Research. At present, there are 67 on-going internally funded research projects under the name ‘Intramural Research Projects (IRP)’ and 115 externally funded projects including 35 All India Co-ordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) and 4 All India Network Research Projects (AINRPs). As an outcome of these research endeavours, the university was successful in developing location specific deliverable technologies/practices, recommendations and research findings on agriculture and allied disciplines for the farmers and agri-entrepreneurs of NEH Region.