 Calving to first service interval and pregnancy rate are influenced by the breeding management policy of the individual farms, delayed return of cyclical activity after calving, and failure to detect estrus in buffaloes that have resumed cyclical activity. It is pertinent to ensure that dams have returned to cyclical activity. For this, regular rectal palpation in combination with milk progesterone assays and/ or transrectal ultrasonography of those dams not in estrus even after prolonged post-partum period may be carried out. Efficient detection of estrus depends upon farmers knowing the true estrus signs in a buffalo, proper recording and use of tools to detect estrus. Culling rate On an average not more than 5% of the buffaloes should come under culling scanner for poor fertility reasons. It means for optimally producing buffalo herd, 95% of the females of the herd should be cycling and producing calves regularly as determined by the requirement of the particular buffalo herd. To achieve this, regular veterinary examination of the individual animals must be scheduled and all possible health concerns addressed on an urgent basis. General management practices Regular grooming of buffaloes keeps the animal clean and helps to maintain their health. It helps to detect any illness or injuries in buffaloes. Flies menace in the sheds especially milking parlor can cause serious nuisance to buffaloes. The eyes, nostrils and face, should be cleaned in morning with a clean cloth and body should be brushed gently with dandy brush and curry comb. The angular parts of body like inguinal region, thigh, udder and grooves should be cleaned thoroughly. If possible, sufficient clean water may be made available for wallowing. All these practices of grooming, feeding, watering, washing and exercise should be scheduled for regular follow up. The management practices to protect buffaloes from direct solar radiation and extreme climatic conditions may be introduced. Remember that buffaloes are intelligent animals, gentle handling, and avoiding shouting and beating of lactating buffaloes may help in increasing the milk production and reduces economic loss. To get better average productivity form the herd, uneconomical and surplus buffaloes should be identified and disposed off. Estrus detection programs are hall mark of optimum breeding buffalo herd, hence regular scrutinizing of female buffaloes ensures curtailing high incidence of silent estrus. Fortunately, common vices of kicking, self-suckling of teats or of other cows, licking and naval suckling commonly observed in cattle are rare in buffaloes. During transportation of buffaloes, exercise patience and gentle handling especially during loading and unloading. SUMMARY Though numerous method have been used to measure fertility, not all of these can be adopted well by a rural buffalo farmers. To increase productivity, a buffalo farmer must optimize the reproductive efficiency to the maximum extent possible.