 Several other farmers in the village are also engaged in goat rearing. Among them, Shri Maghar Singh (58) started with 5 goat kids and now has 20 goats, with plans for expansion in the coming years. Shri Wazir Khan (45) has a herd of 22 goats and has tapped into the market potential by directly marketing milk and meat at a retail outlet in the nearby town. CONCLUSION The Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) has been instrumental in promoting goat rearing as a viable alternative occupation for livelihood security in Sangrur’s villages. By providing training and institutional support, the program has empowered small and marginal farmers to improve their livelihoods. Goat rearing offers a steady income stream and reduces dependency on the paddy-wheat cycle, helping farmers in Chatha Nanhera and Taranji Khera move toward a more diversified and sustainable agricultural system. Landless labourers, who once had no consistent income and relied on sporadic daily wages, now have secure livelihoods through goat rearing. This shift has enabled them to achieve financial stability and resilience, transforming their economic situation and improving their quality of life. The success of this initiative underscores the importance of introducing innovative subsidiary enterprises to enhance rural communities’ economic resilience. The comprehensive support provided by the Farmer FIRST Programme has uplifted individual farmers like Shri Ajaib Singh and positively impacted the entire village, establishing a new standard for sustainable agricultural practices in India. *Corresponding author email: hodee@pau.edu Indian Farming 21 October 2024 Leveraging the potential of ‘Black Gold’ in building business Amandeep Singh*, Parminder Singh, Gurpreet Kour Tulla and Parkash Singh Brar Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 The land of Punjab is blessed with fertile soils, productive livestock, and progressive farmers. This story focuses on the efforts made under the Farmer FIRST Programme in the village of Moom, District Barnala, Punjab, where a marginal farmer named S. Harmeet Singh laid the foundation for a livestock-based business centered around buffaloes. Shri Harmeet Singh’s business model is based on the sale of milk and milk products, as well as the breeding and sale of Nili-Ravi buffaloes. Over four years, he scaled his farm from one animal to 10 animals and increased average milk production from 9 to 15 litres/day by adopting various technologies demonstrated by Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Ludhiana, Punjab. A benefit-cost analysis indicated that he earned a net profit of more than `1.00 lakh/month from buffalo farming. Shri Harmeet Singh’s exemplary work in buffalo farming serves as a model that can be replicated across the state by farmers and young entrepreneurs seeking profit and sustainable livelihoods in livestock farming.