 Anthracnose Black spots are developed on the fruits and leaves after incidence of anthracnose. The size of these spots increases with time. After harvesting of fruits, black spots develop in storage and cause severe loss due to rottening of fruits. Hot water treatment (52°C) for 10 minutes helps in management of disease. Pre-harvest foliar spraying of copper oxychloride/bordeux mixture (2%) at the interval of 15 days is also helpful in management of anthracnose. Gummosis Oozing of gum from the trunk and branches causes drying of the tree. In severe case trees start dying back and ultimately dies after few months. For the management of this disease, pasting of affected part with biodynamic tree paste has been found helpful. After cleaning of gum, pasting of affected part with bordeux mixture/copper oxychloride has also been found helpful. Pasting of tree trunk of healthy trees with biodynamic tree paste twice in a year is also effective in management of gummosis. Panicle midge Midge incidence commonly occurs on panicle and new leaves. Adult makes hole in the panicle for egg laying. After hatching of eggs, larva comes out and eats the tissues of the panicle. In severe incidence panicle dries up. Foliar application of 20% biodynamic liquid pesticide/ neem oil (3%) at the interval of 7 days has been found effective in management of midge. Thrips Thrips incidence occur at the time of flowering and fruit setting during April and May. In severe cases brown spots develop and size of spots increase with time, growth and development of fruits significantly affected and fruits become unmarketable. For effective management of this insect, 2-3 foliar sprays of biodynamic liquid pesticide/ 3% neem oil at the interval of 7 days is recommended. Pasting of biodynamic tree paste July–August 2021 31 Mango malformation Mango malformation is important problem of mango in north Indian conditions. It causes maximum economic loss to Mango growers. In nursery, it affects the growth of grafted and seedling plants. Floral malformation affects the growth of panicles in bearing trees. Vegetative and floral malformation both affect the growth, development and yield of plant. In seedling plants, leaves are converted into the bunch and affect the growth and development. In floral malformation, panicle becomes malformed and persist for longer time on the plants. Affected panicles bear no fruit. Pruning and burning of malformed panicles every year, reduces the occurrence in coming year. Pruning and burning of vegetative malformation is also recommended for minimizing the incidence. Plant propagation from affected mother plants should be avoided to reduce this disease. Brief accounts of organic production of mango and possibilities of their integration to develop organic farming package of practices are enumerated below. Salient features of organic production yy Proper habitat development around orchards by encouraging wide range of plantation i.e.