 Adoption of good agricultural practices by integrating organic as well as synthetic nutrient resources for optimizing productivity of vegetables is imperative in commercial farming Practicing protected cultivation in poly houses for export oriented crops like salad cucumber as well as self- pollinated crops like trailing cowpea result in substantial increase in income generation potential of the farmer. Need based application of target specific molecules of new generation chemicals has proved to be effective in controlling major groups of pests affecting vegetables like sucking pests, borers, white flies, mealy bugs jassids, etc. and diseases like downy mildew, powdery mildew, fruit rot, anthracnose and leaf spot diseases Use of repellants like reflecting ribbons for warding off birds and pheromone traps like culure traps fruit flies of cucurbits, are ecologically safe and effective methods of control. Biocontrol agents have revolutionized crop protection strategies in vegetables. Fungal antagonists like Beauveria and Verticillium are effective against lepidopteran and sucking pests respectively both as a preventive measure and for control in initial stages of infection. 280 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Cool Season Vegetables, Cabbage, Cauliflower , potato, Garlic, Carrot, Beetroot, Radish Identification and popularization of location-specific improved varieties Presently, farmers in the highlands are not much aware of the improved varieties which necessitate popularization of high yielding cool season vegetable varieties for widespread cultivation. Cabbage: September, Pusa drum head, golden acre, Kaveri Cauliflower: Pusa early synthetic, Himani, Swati. Carrot: Pusa Kesar, Pusa Meghali Beetroot: Detroit Dark Read, Imperator, Radish: Japanese white,Arka Nishant, Pusa Reshmi. Potato: Jyothi, Kufri Muthu,Kufri Dewa. Garlic: Ooty 1, G50 Highlands of Idukki. Other General strategies for Yield Improving Water use efficiency by proper lining of channels and reducing runoff in the filled by proper levelling. Applicable in all three regions 281 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Other general strategies for Yield en- hancement in Crops Economize water use by adopting phasic stress irrigation schedule -instead of 5cm submergence, maintain 5cm water during critical phases of crop growth and maintenance of moisture from saturation to field capacity during other stages. Fertigation and foliar application of nutrients for yield enhancement of major crops of Kerala. Soil Test Based Site specific, Crop Specific Nutrient Management for enhanced returns. Improving Productivity in Home stead farming with optimal use of waste and nutrients.