 Adiga 70 AI transforming horticulture: A glimpse into the future Shailendra Rajan 73 Mobile applications for real time market information and decision support in horticultural crops Rajarshi Roy Burman, Girijesh Singh Mahra and Sonali Mallick 77 High-throughput phenotyping in horticultural crops: Innovations, challenges, and the path ahead Madhurima Das, Chanumolu H. G. K., Sudhir Kumar and Viswanathan C. 81 Citripreneurship leaping ahead S. P. Ghosh, Dilip Ghosh and A. K. Das 85 Indian Horticulture 2 Message Horticulture in digital era H ORTICULTURE is one of the important sectors of agriculture. It involves living and perishable commodities, and the production depends on natural conditions such as weather situation, pests & diseases, soil conditions, season and climate. Indoor production in greenhouses is a strategy to cope with these uncertainties resulting in a more controlled production environment to optimise weather conditions, fertigation, light and moisture. The uncertainties arising due to erratic weather patterns, pests and quality loss, and new challenges, especially concerning to energy management, requires continuous reassessment the cultivation strategies and rescheduling of planned activities based on the timely monitoring to achieve the goals. Digital horticulture refer to the use of digital technologies to improve the efficiency and productivity of horticultural crops. This include technologies such as remote sensors, drones, precision irrigation systems, and GPS-guided machinery, as well as the use of data analytics, AI and machine learning to make informed decisions about crop management and farm resource allocation. These digital technologies can be used to collect data about soil conditions, crop health, weather patterns, and other factors that impact growth and yield. This can provide various benefits such as increased efficiency, reduced costs, improved crop yields, and reduced environmental impact. It also helps farmers make more informed decisions about crop management and resource allocation, and can help to improve production and sustainability by maximizing the production and minimizing waste. Indian Academy of Horticultural Sciences (formerly the Horticultural Society of India, established in 1942) has been organizing several seminars, symposia, conferences, etc. regularly to discuss recent advancements and define the future course of action in horticulture. The National Conference on ‘Digital Technologies for Transforming the Horticultural Sector’ gives a special emphasis on the potential of different digital technologies in horticulture production and export. The term 'Digital Horticulture' may have been coined recently but several technologies, which now part of digital horticulture, are being experimented by several researchers and progressive growers in the name of precision horticulture, climate smart technologies, etc.