 e Slow growth, long duration, less yields due to poor seed set, and low response to fertilizers. Farmers preferring alternate productive crops resulting into decrease in mothbean area over the years. e Damage caused by blue bull (Boselaphus tragocamelus) and other wild animals. Future perspectives e Mothbean is the most suitable and adapted to hot arid and semi-arid agro-climatic conditions, which makes it unique under the climate change and stressed conditions. e Given its inherent capability of withstanding stresses, mothbean has not been fully exploited for its genetic and genomic resources. Since there are limited number of genetic resources, efforts are Indian Farming 24 March 2024 Indian Farming 25 March 2024 needed for extensive explorations, characterization and evaluation of the collected germplasm. The genetic variability may be employed for higher yield, yield stability, salinity tolerance, multi- disease and pest resistance, higher protein as well as other nutrients. • Use of advance breeding methods in association with available genetic diversity can help in accelerating domestication in mothbean and expediting its productivity. • Value-added products and effective marketing strategies can be instrumental in the promotion of mothbean. • Farmers’ participatory varietal development can improve the varietal selection process given that farmers’ selection intensity was like that of the breeders. • Scientific advances coupled with policy signals are required for implementing the innovation and development of high yielding and climate-resilient varieties as well as in mainstreaming of mothbean for diversification of food systems. SUMMARY The CFLD approach of frontline extension is an effective tool for increasing the production and productivity of crops as well as motivating the farmers for adoption of improved technologies and package of practices. They have been effective in changing the knowledge, attitude and skills of farmers. Higher yield in demonstration plots over farmers practice created greater awareness and motivation to other farmers to adopt the improved package of practices of mothbean. These demonstrations also built relationship and confidence between farmers and scientists. The beneficiary farmers of CFLDs also play an important role as source of information and quality seeds for farmer- to-farmer dissemination of the high yielding varieties. RMO 2251 mothbean proved the best performing variety which should be promoted through mass extension programme. There is need to augment seed production of farmers preferred varieties at extension farm and farmers’ fields in a participatory mode. Efforts may also be augmented for development of high- yielding and climate-resilient varieties of mothbean for diversification of pulses production catering to needs of diversified agri-food systems under diverse agro- climatic conditions. *Corresponding author email: mohar.meena@icar.gov.