2,00,000 per month.. After deducting the expenses, net profit is shared among the members of the group. The millet products are also supplied to nearby super markets in Eluru, Koyyalagudem, Rajahmundry and local shandies in the villages. Recently an outlet in Eluru Rythu Bazar was also started and the sales are encouraging with a turnover of about Rs. 30,000/- to 50,000/- per month. Productivity enhancement Integrated Management of cashew orchards in West Godavari Cashew is the main horticultural crop and provides livelihood to tribal adivasi families. The training programmes and demonstrations given on the INM and IPM of cashew and on canopy management by KVK brought down injudicious use of fertilizers and pesticides and encouraged the tribal farmers to take up ecologically safe plant protection measures like spray of neem oil and neem and pongamia soap when the pest load is low in the beginning of the flowering season. A total of 57.8 (12% increase over previous year) tonnes of cashew nuts were marketed by these 223 farmers with an average price of Rs. 123.5 per kg of nuts. Each farmer on an average got an amount of Rs. 31,251 per acre at the end of the season. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 19 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Livelihood Diversification and stability of income Apiculture – A successful skill based intervention for improved livelihood of rural and tribal families of West Godavari Collection of honey from wild bee colonies is one of the income sources for rural/tribal families during lean periods of employment i.e. during November to February in tribal areas of west Godavari district. Sixteen tribal farmers from Kamaiahkunta, Pandugudem and Bandarlagudem villages of Buttaigudemmandal were identified to support with bee hive boxes under Tribal sub plan activity of KVK, Venkataramannagudem. Regular follow up visits and advisory was also provided for effective maintenance of the bee hives. Honey can be extracted @ 2-3 Kg from each box by October and can be continued up to June. Honey extracted from these colonies was sold @ Rs. 300/- to 500/- per Kg. depending on the season and demand. Productivity enhancement Grow with Profitable Oilpalm Andhra Pradesh is first in oilpalm area (1.35 lakh ha) & Production (9.3 lakh t fresh fruit bunches (FFB), 1.6 lakh t crude palm oil. About 75000 farmers cultivate oilpalm in 1 lakh ha area of Godavari zone and realize monthly income round the year. The technology revolves around 3 M’s i.e., Manure, Mulching & Micro-irrigation. Adoption of better management practices has resulted in nearly doubling productivity. Godavari zone: District: East Godavari (paddy, coconut, cotton, cashewnuts, sugarcane, mangoes, plantation crops.