 S A Patil, Director, Indian Agricultural Research Institute, gave a brief account of the introduction and theme of the felicitation/award for Basmati rice improvement. The “Felicitation of scientists/ other contributors involved in basmati rice variety/ hybrid improvement” by the Hon’ble AM followed thereafter which was a unique feature of the VC Conference this year. Dr. Mangala Rai, Secretary DARE & DG, ICAR, in his address, stressed the importance of the VC conference and said that this forum has continually served the cause of the ICAR-AU System of higher agricultural education in an effective partnership mode. He presented a brief account of the new programmes like Modernization of AU Farms, funding to century-old historical agricultural colleges, Sports Complex, Educational Museums, Overseas Fellowships, faculty exchange, Guest, and Adjunct Faculty, Personality Development, Counseling of students, Tutorials for SC/ST students etc. as approved for the XI Plan. He appreciated the AUs for implementing the revised Under-Graduate curricula and syllabi and desired to quickly finalize the fine-tuning and implementation of Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi from the next academic session. Dr. Rai also informed the august gathering 2 that nearly 58% of the ICAR budget is going to SAUs. He stated that a significant increase in the education budget has been brought about in the XI five-year plan. He stated that while continuing to address the challenges of emergent nature, the AUs should not lose sight of long-term goals that may have a long gestation period as is usual with agriculture research to fructify. Shri Kanti Lal Bhuria, Hon’ble MoS (A) in his address appreciated the AUs for their efforts in producing quality human resource required for research, education and extension activities in the field of Agriculture and allied sciences. He said that Indian subcontinent is the richest reservoir of biodiversity and commercialization of discoveries emerging from such efforts may help in technological empowerment of the country. He stressed the need to create IPR awareness and expertise in scientists and students through specific courses and training. Shri Bhuria said that agricultural education needs periodic revamping to maintain its relevance. The need is to reorient courses for students and provide real-life project situation, he said. The youth should possess the required skills in consonance with contemporary and futuristic needs of job markets and confidence for establishing self-employment. Union Minister of Agriculture Sri Sharad Pawar congratulated all the scientists and other contributors involved in ‘Basmati’ rice improvement who were conferred with citations and cash awards for the excellent work they have done in regard to ‘Basmati’ rice improvement.