 malabarica was found to be superior in evaluation as rootstock for grafting nutmeg to overcome drought. The promising black pepper lines, Coll.1041, OPKM, HP 780, HP 1411 and HP 813, continued to maintain their superiority in yielding 2–3 kg fresh berries/vine during the fourth year of planting. The elite cassia line, D 1, yielded highest with a mean fresh bark yield of 462.7 g/plant. Foliar application of Zn (0.25%) twice resulted in high rhizome yield in ginger compared to soil application. Application of neem cake increased availability of N significantly and highest available N was recorded in beds applied with half the dose of N as urea along with neem cake @ 2 tonnes/ha. A fertilizer schedule of 100 : 100 : 175 kg NPK/ha was recommended along with organic and inorganic manure in cardamom. Application of micronutrients increased the yield in coriander and fennel. Blanching of mace in 75°C hot water for 2 minutes before drying, gave 23% more colour and its stability, than hot air-dried mace. Biochemical characterization of P. capsici from black pepper using isozyme analysis revealed the existence of two subpopulations in the species. Thirty-one promising hybrids (based on preliminary screening) were further tested for their reaction to P. capsici and 6 hybrids (HP 293, HP 400, HP 674, HP 1372, HP 1375 and HP 1389) showed a tolerant reaction. Trials with Phytophthora resistant rootstocks of Piper colubrinum at farmers’ fields indicated that there was no deterioration in growth of grafts up to 5 years after grafting and an average yield of 11 kg (green berries) per standard was obtained from these grafts. A simple screening technique for resistance directly inoculating the bacterial wilt pathogen, R. solanacearum, in tissue-cultured ginger somaclones was developed. Six accessions each of ginger and turmeric were screened for their reaction to Meloidogyne incognita and 2 turmeric accessions (Acc. 1 and Acc. 8) gave a resistant reaction. Evaluation Promising variability in Garcinia species PLANT GROWTH PROMOTER Evaluation of Plant Growth Promoting Rhizobacteria (PGPR) obtained from Silent Valley (Kerala) indicated that strain, IISR 331, could increase the growth of black pepper cuttings by 228% and showed 82.7% inhibition of P. capsici in- vitro. A RFLP-PCR technique was standardized for identifying strains of R. solanacearum causing bacterial wilt of crop plants. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 68 of 11 promising antagonistic fungi and 1 bacterial isolate (Pasteuria penetrans) in black pepper, turmeric and ginger fields for suppression of M. incognita indicated that all of them caused significant suppression of nematodes. Verticillium chlamydosporium, Fusarium sp. and Scopulariopsis sp. also significantly increased the yield of black pepper and ginger besides controlling nematodes.