 The journey of NARES into technology transfer process has started only in 2006 as compared to initiatives in other sector. However, it may be pointed out that ICAR initiatives are in synchronization with recently announced national IPR policy of Government of India. Forging formal links and developing partnership with schemes and projects operating under other agencies of GoI (DST, DBT), successful NGOs, professional bodies and associations is one way to take forward the early initiatives and success gained. Entrepreneurs bring a new vision to the forefront of economic growth. Policy makers may consider improving conditions for entry of resource poor farmers into these modern markets, which might become much more dominant in the years to come as has happened in other developing countries. Corresponding author's e-mail: ksrinivasnaarm@gmail.com. agtech business models and that is the reason most of them have survived without external funding. The sustainability on the back of margin improvement opportunity through dis-intermediation and efficiency is unique to this sector. Despite the progress, there is still lot of scope to improve the ecosystem and attracting the capital in the area. The low level of seed funding, incubation centers, less number of mentors coupled with lack of access to supply chains for prototyping innovations is responsible for sub- optimal growth and premature death of worthy startups. Both public and private ecosystem necessary for agtech scale is showing green shoots. The government realizes that target of doubling farmer income can not be achieved without making innovations accessible to farmers, so they want farmers to adopt innovations. There are several other government programmes, which can also give startups enough room to innovate. Many state governments in India have also taken giant steps to provide agtech start-ups a public platform to scale. Andhra Pradesh government clearly stands out among all state governments who have demonstrated commitment to agtech through their AP Smart Village programme (in collaboration with University of California, Berkeley) as well as organising the agtech event of the year – AP Agtech Summit, (organised in partnership with Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation), which gave many start-ups an opportunity to work closely with the government to scale innovations in the state for the benefit of farmers. Then there are initiatives from other states, viz. Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, and Karnataka governments to build Custom Hiring Centres in partnership with agtech community to provide farming as a service. Karnataka government’s focus on promoting millets as superfoods to get it back on consumer plate is also unique and praiseworthy. Private sector participation is also on the rise with an intent to collaborate with agtech community Indian Farming January 2020 53 I CAR-National Rice Research Institute (NRRI) is a premier research and development institute in the country.