 Use of non-thermal technologies (microfiltration, bacteriofugation, ultra high voltage electric fields, pulse electric fields, high pressure processing, irradiation, thermosonication), alternate-thermal technologies (ohmic heating, dielectric heating, infrared and induction heating) and biological technologies (antibacterial enzymes, bacteriocins, proteins and peptides) in food processing. Unit 2: Technology of Foods of Plant Origin Fruits and Vegetable Processing: Post harvest handling and storage of fresh fruits and vegetables. Preparation of fruits and vegetables for processing. Minimally processed products. Cold chain logistics. ZECC (Zero Energy Cool Chambers), CCSR (Charcoal cool storage Rooms) Thermal processing and process time evaluation for canned products, process optimization, aseptic canning, methods for canning of different fruits, and vegetables; Dehydration and associated quality changes during drying and storage of dehydrated products. Solar drying. Intermediate moisture foods. Preparation and utilization of fruits and vegetables juices in non-fermented/ fermented/ aerated beverages, health drinks. Membrane technology. Chemistry and manufacture of pectin, role in gel formation and products like jellies and marmalade. Technology of preservatives, pickles, chutney’s and sauces. Nature and control of spoilage in these products, Re-structured fruits and vegetables, By products utilization of fruits and vegetable processing industry, Processing methods of frozen fruits and vegetables, IQF products, packaging, storage and thawing, Role of Pectinases. Tomato products such as juice, puree, paste, soup, sauce and ketchup, Other convenience foods from fruits and vegetables. Beverages, tea, cocoa and coffee processing. Medicinal and aromatic plants: their therapeutic values. Spice processing viz. cleaning, grading, drying, grinding, packaging and storage. Oleoresins and essential oils. Food grain Processing: Structure, composition of different grains like wheat, rice, Barley, oat, maize and millets, Anti-nutritional factors in food grains and oilseeds, Milling of grains. Wheat flour/semolina and its use in traditional/non-traditional foods like breads, biscuits, cakes, doughnuts, buns, pasta goods, extruded, confectionary products, breakfast and snack foods. Rheology of wheat and rice flour, Preparation of vital wheat gluten and its utilization, Instant ready mixtures, Enzymes (amylases and proteases) in milling and baking, Milling and parboiling of rice; by-products of rice milling and their utilization, Processed products from rice, Pearling, malting, brewing and preparation of malted milk feeds from barley, Significance of β-glucans, Milling of oats and its processing into flakes, porridge and oatmeal, Wet and dry milling of corn, manufacture of corn flakes, corn syrup, corn starch, corn steep liquor and germ oil, Structure and composition of pulses and their importance in Indian diet. Milling and processing of pulses viz.