0 kg/ha fb application of quizalofop-ethyl (PoE) at 50 g/ha with or without residue retention Cowpea Pendimethalin (PE) 0.75 kg/ha fb hand-weeding at 30 DAS DAS, Days after sowing; fb, followed by; PE, Pre-emergence; PoE, Post-emergence weeds. Some integrated weed management options for pulses are listed in Table 2. SUMMARY To sustain and improve pulse production in the country, the problem of weed management must be addressed urgently. The development and identification of suitable post-emergence herbicides for pulses should be the focus of research. Continuous efforts should be made to improve pulse productivity in various production systems by incorporating effective weed management strategies. Nano- herbicides, herbicide-tolerant crops and other emerging technologies can be combined with integrated weed management practices to increase their efficacy. Various integrated weed management modules should be studied across pulses and pulse-based cropping systems for different agro-ecological regions of the country for efficient weed management. Long-term strategic research for weed management in pulses is urgently needed. *Corresponding author e-mail: sonakaghosh@gmail.com Textbook of Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-vi + 162 • Price : ` 350 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-183-3 The textbook on Commercial Poultry Production and Hatchery Management has been brought out by ICAR, keeping in mind the importance of poultry industry in the current agricultural scenario. It is a major industry in livestock sector offering promising employment opportunitites throughout India for veterinary and animal science graduates. The book has been designed and written in a lucid manner to prepare an exhaustive information source for undergraduate students with special reference to Indian farming and business conditions. The book consists of 16 chapters on different aspects of the poultry production. Each chapter has practice exercise at the end for better understanding of concepts. We hope that this book will be able to serve its purpose. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming 7 July 2023 Precision fertigation: The key component for maximizing productivity Tejas Mangesh Lingavale, H T Jadhav* and D P Pawar Dr. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli, Maharashtra 415 712 Fertigation plays a very crucial role in enhancing plant productivity. Presently, fertigation is done by various devices available in the market. They are having certain limitations and lower fertilizer use efficiency due to the non-uniform mixing of water-soluble fertilizers, uneven injection rate, non-uniform distribution of fertilizer throughout the entire field, etc.