 Three litre of extract should be dissolved in 100 litre water and it can be sprayed in general against all sorts of insects. Dashparni extract: Crush neem leaves 5.0 kg, Vitex negundo leaves 2.0 kg, Aristolochia leaves 2.0 kg, Papaya (Carica papaya) 2.0 kg, Tinospora cordifolia leaves 2.0 kg, Annona squamosa (Custard apple) leaves 2.0 kg, Pongamia pinnata (Karanj) leaves 2.0 kg, Ricinus aphids, cotton jassids, and moth caterpillars. Neem is also very effective against beetle larvae, butterfly, aphids and white flies, mealy bug, scale insects, adult bugs, diamond back moth. fruit maggots, spider mites, moth and caterpillars such as Mexican bean beetle and Colorado potato beetle. Neem oil @ 2.0% with 1% detergent found most effective against pod borers complex in chickpea, moong, cowpea and okra, shoot and fruit borer of brinjal. Neem seed kernel extract (NSKE) @ 5% with 1% detergent found most effective against stem borer in rice and management of diamond back moth. Preparation of Neemastra and Agniastra along with other extracts is described here. These are highly effective for pest management. Neemastra: 200 litre water + 10 litre cow urine (Desi) + 2 kg cow dung + 10 kg neem twigs with leaves + 500 g turmeric powder + 500 g ginger paste + 10 g asafoetida (hing) 500 lit of water for per hectare and then sprayed. For the areas affected by white grubs mainly for the crop the citrus, mango and coconuts etc. 5 ml of Beauveria bassiana per lit water must be applied. Beauveria bassiana @ 2 kg should be mixed with 200 lit water dispensed through the drip or drench system to control the grubs. It can be applied on the crops like banana, soybean, paddy, oilseeds, tomato, chilli, potato, maize, sugarcane, turmeric, citrus crop, onion, garlic, floriculture and horticulture crops. Botanical pesticides: Many plants are known to have pesticidal properties and the extract can be used in the management of pests. Among various plants identified for the purpose, neem has been found to be most effective. Neem has been found to be effective in the management of approximately 200 insects, pests and nematodes. Neem extracts are very effective against grasshoppers, leaf hoppers, leaf minor, plant hoppers, Table 2. Management of pests and weeds through biological agents Crop Major pest Eco-friendly management through biological agents Chickpea/ Pigeon Helicoverpa armigera Application of Bacillus thuringiensis Kurstaki 8L @ 1.6 kg per ha. and Bacillus Pea/Lathyrus Hubner (Lepidoptera: thuringiensis Kurstaki ES @ 1.5 lt per ha, respectively, at early stages of crop Noctuidae) infestation (1st, 2nd and 3rd instar larval infestation) with at least 2 applications at 7 days interval. Mustard/ Aphids Cheilomenes sexmaculata Fabricius 5000 larvae or 500 adults per ha, Coccinella Safflower (Lipaphis erysimi) septempunctata. 5000 larvae or 500 adults per ha. Two releases: first release to coincide with the appearance of aphids. Sunflower Aphid (Lipaphis erysimi).