 Anonymous (1999a) 7 Methods for control of gully erosion Gully erosion control is done in a 3-tier-system, where the first check is attempted by vegetative (Ipomea sp.) barrier across the gully. The second and third tier is done by bamboo structure and loose boulders (Lower areas of Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 8 Palm leaf for removing salinity Palm leaves are incorporated in the field and kept bare for 60 to 70 days. Later the farm is ploughed. Palm leaves absorb salts from soil and thus facilitate soil reclamation (Pondicherry). Pillai (2000-2001) 9 Loose boulders for soil and water conservation Use of loose boulder spurs in small nalla is made for reducing the cutting effect of steam flow.Loose boulders are also used in construction of dams across the streams with spil way in the center (Lower areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 13 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 10 Conserving top soil by autumn irrigation The practice of irrigating fields in autumn to prevent the top layers being eroded in West Himalayan cold deserts. It also eases ploughing in the spring by keeping the soil moist. This technique helps in timely ploughing and meeting the requirements of short growing season. The moist upper layer of soil which gets frozen in winter also serves as protection against wind erosion (Cold deserts of Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 14 3 Tillage and Intercultural Management S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Ploughing in standing maize for better stand establishment The inter spaces standing maize fields in Mandi area of Himachal Pradesh are ploughed, when it has attained a height of 15 to 30 cm for weed control. Ploughing strengthens the root system of the maize crop by loosening the soil which enhances aeration and water infiltration. It also helps in thinning of densely cropped maize. The farmers also take up gap filling during this operation. The whole process is known as halod by the local farmers (Mandi, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 2 Minimum tillage for rabi crops after rainy season (kharif) fallowing In Lahaul area wheat and barely are sown directly after single ploughing. No second ploughing is undertaken. Lands are kept fallow in rotation. Minimum tillage ensures least disturbance to the soil thereby reducing soil loss by surface runoff. The nutreint losses are also curtailed. Consequently soil water holding capacity, chemical properties, nutrient availability, microbial population are improved (Lahaul valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 3 Summer ploughing in groundnut Farmers plough their groundnut fields immediately, after the monsoon crop and keep the furrows exposed till the onset of next monsoons. They believe that fine soil and dust deposited on the furrows by wind during summer benefits the groundnut being planted in a next season in same furrows (Gujarat).