 Wallingford, United Kingdom: CABI Publishing528. Jarvie HP, Smith DR, Norton LR, Edwards FK, Bowes MJ, King SM, Scarlett P, Davies S, Dils RM, and Bachiller-Jareno N (2018a) Phosphorus and nitrogen limitation and impairment of headwater streams relative to rivers in Great Britain: A national perspective on eutrophication. The Science of the Total Environment 621: 849–862. HUMAN PRESSURES AND MANAGEMENT OF INLAND WATERS | Agricultural Pressures on Inland Waters 57 

Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 Available online 2 August 2021 0301-4797/© 2021 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd. This is an open access article under the CC BY license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/). How do farmers adapt to agricultural risks in northern India? An agent-based exploration of alternate theories of decision-making Udita Sanga a,b,*, Hogeun Park c, Courtney Hammond Wagner d,e, Sameer H. Shah f, Arika Ligmann-Zielinska g a Department of Community Sustainability, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA b Stockholm Resilience Centre, Stockholm University, 106 91, Stockholm, Sweden c School of Planning, Design, and Construction, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA d Gund Institute for Environment, University of Vermont, Burlington, VT, USA e Water in the West, Stanford Woods Institute for the Environment, Stanford University, USA f Institute for Resources, Environment & Sustainability, The University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada g Department of Geography, Environment, and Spatial Sciences, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI, USA A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Agriculture Adaptation Decision-making Agent-based models India A B S T R A C T Agricultural decision-making processes occur in complex and dynamic environments and are highly contextual. Despite evidence to the contrary, utility maximization is often the implicit theoretical assumption underlying agricultural decision-making processes. This study undertakes an exploratory approach to test alternative the­ ories of human decision-making on the process of agricultural adaptation of farmers in India by synthesizing multiple sources of social and environmental data. We developed an empirical agent-based model (ABM) to simulate past adoption decisions of six agricultural adaptation strategies of 959 farmers in northern India. The model assessed the fit of four major decision-making rules – utility maximization, self-satisficing, social norms, and random choice for farmers differentiated by farm size. Scenario analysis was conducted to test whether (and which) alternative decision-making rules offered a better explanation of the adoption of (which) adaptation strategies. Results demonstrated that the utility-maximizing decision rule had a higher fit for productivity- enhancing adaptation strategies, such as adopting high yield varieties and enhanced fertilizer use, with model performance increasing, generally, with farm size.