 In order to reduce the characterization of nanoparticles showed bathochromic and hyperchormic shift and addition of weak vibration bands of aromatic compound indicating capping of nanoclay. SEM image showed intercalation of aromatic compound between the layers of nanoclay and thus these particles can help in sealing the leaky soils to a greater extent. Mapping brackishwater aquaculture resources: One of the problems associated with brackishwater aquaculture is selection of the suitable sites for aquaculture and its leasing by the respective state governments. To generate precise data on potential brackishwater resources, the mapping of district Ramnadhapuram, Tamil Nadu was undertaken using GIS based multiple criteria decision support system (MCDSS) in a phased manner. Agricultural land, fallow land, settlement, water bodies and mudflat were the four major land use of the study area. The district has aquaculture in 921 ha, abandoned aquaculture in 62 ha, abandoned salt pan 325 ha, salt affected land 944 ha in addition to the salt affected waste lands, which can be used for aquaculture with buffer provision of 100 m. Spatial analysis indicated that 14,418 ha is available for aquaculture development in district Ramanathapuram. Environmental flow requirements for Mahanadi mahseer: Environmental flows (e-flows) describe the quantity, timing and quality of water flows required to sustain freshwater and estuarine ecosystems. The e-flow requirement of Tor mahanadicus, an endangered fish species and the State fish of Odisha, in river Mahanadi was estimated by hydrologic-wetted perimeter method. The study revealed a minimum of 24.284 million cubic meters (MCM) of water requirement during lean period and 331.953 MCM during monsoon.  Green synthesis of sodium-bentonite nanoparticles using coconut water Mapping brackishwater aquaculture resources seepage from such ponds, soil sealant can play very important role in using poor quality soil for aquaculture. The ICAR-CIFA, Bhubneswar has ‘Synthesised Nanoclay’ using matured coconut water (Cocos nucifera Linn.) as reducing agent and capping material. The Thumb rules of weather for aphids in mustard: Weather conditions, viz. wind speed (>2 km h-1), BSS (>7 hr), mean temperature of 19° to 25.5°C, diurnal temperature range of 14°-19°C, mean RH (53-70%) and THI (2-3) were identified as most conducive for the spread of aphids in mustard at Anand. Sowing window between 10 and 20 October was identified as ideal for avoiding high aphid infestation in mustard. Dissemination of agro-met advisory services: An android application ‘Havamaana-Krishi’ in Kannada language was developed by Bijapur center to disseminate the advisories to farmers in northern Karnataka. The optimum temperature for development of eggs, larvae and pupae were 25.0°C, 25.8°C and 26.3°C, respectively, through a linear model with corresponding lower development thresholds being 9.1, 11.2, and 13.8°C.