 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 211 Digesting Calotropis and urea to control pest in different crops Twigs of Calotropis are kept in the earthen pot and about 50 g urea is added to it. Approximately 1 litre of water is added and it is sealed air tight by plastering its mouth with clay soil. This container is kept in a manure pit for 2 months. By this time, Calotropis twigs get decomposed and get mixed with water. The extract is filtered and used for seed treatment of wheat, barley and chickpea. Crops treated in this manner do not get affected by termites. The same extract may be poured into pots of ornamental plants, to protect them from various soil pests and increase the growth. This insecticide reportedly does not affect the earthworms adversely (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Sharma (1996d) 212 Surface grasshopper control through pulverizing clods Surface grasshoppers attack the growing plumule of the groundnut seedling as it emerges from the earth. To tackle this, farmers of Amreli District collect twigs of baval (Acacia nilotica)and other throny shrubs like kerda (Capparis deciduas) and bundle it into a roll called kanti. Inside the kanti they put stones, clay clods and other heavy materials to increase its overall weight, and they run it on the fields after the sowing, but before the emergence of the plumule. The farmers believe that this operation breaks up small clods of earth and helps in eradicating the pest which hides below the clods (Amreli, Gujarat). Vaghela (1994) 213 Magha rain water keeps pests away Farmers store rain water received during the magha constellation in the monsoons for future use. Some farmers of Baroda and Panchmahal districts of Gujarat smear the seeds of wheat with this water before sowing. Besides boosting the yield it also helps in keeping the crop free from disease (Baroda and Panchmahal, Gujarat). Kapadia (1997b) 214 Controlling leaf curl with ‘aritha’ 100 gram fruits of ‘aritha’ (Sapindus emarginatus) are soaked in 1 litre of water for 2 to 3 days. The water is filtered and the filtarate is sprayed on the crops every third day. The user feels that this spray makes the leaves glisten and induces flowering (Rajkot, Gujarat). Indrodiya (2000–2001) 89 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 215 Control of soil pests of groundnut by decoction of Solanum surattense fruits and seeds Soil pests such as white grub and termite damage groundnut crop and drastically reduce yields by thinning out the plant population. To prevent grub-induced damage, the fruit and seeds of a plant locally called 'bhoyringni' (Solanum surattense) is used. Approximately 500 g of fruits along with its seeds are crushed and boiled in water. The decoction is filtered and the filtrate is used to coat seeds of groundnut before sowing them. The decoction prepared with 500 g of the fruit and seed is enough for treating 20 kg of seeds (Sabarkantha, Gujarat).