 Innovations and entrepreneurship within the private food supply chain is alleviating obstacles to make food supply chains more resilient in the future. Use of information and communication technology (ICT) and e-commerce is proving to be an asset. Some of the most commonly deployed ICTs in agri-food industries include Radio- Frequency Identification (RFID), Cloud Computing Technology, Internet of Things (IOT) and Blockchain technology. These ICT solutions have the power to bring all of the components of complex supply chains, including farmers, processors, wholesalers, retailers and consumers onto a single platform, thereby enhancing transparency, traceability and efficiency in the flow of products, information and finance. Trade can also play an important role in helping food systems become more resilient. During the 2008 food price crisis, many countries implemented long- term export restrictions. COVID-19 saw a similar wave of export restrictions, but many countries quickly removed them, showing improvements in information about food stocks and an understanding of how to weather these types of shocks. IFPRI and other organizations are currently widely communicating the importance of avoiding export restrictions in response to the 2022 food crisis. The current food crisis, which saw high food prices before Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, is particularly challenging: the poor are still recovering from COVID-19; hunger and malnutrition were already on the rise; and many governments have little financial resources to mitigate the impacts. Global food systems face many obstacles. But with investment into agricultural research and development, innovation, resilience and inclusion, they can be transformed and serve as a solution to many of the challenges of our times. Key takeaways The COVID-19 pandemic has had significant impacts on poverty and nutrition, on the poor and marginalized groups such as women bearing the brunt. We can learn the lessons from COVID-19 on the potential of innovation, trade and inclusion to help global food systems to check on similar or other shocks if they arise in future. 196 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 197 Health and Good Living Social Issues and Sports Social Issues and Sports 198 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series 199 Social Issues and Sports ISSUES CONCERNING LAND DEGRADATION IN THE NORTH EASTERN INDIA Rajkumar Ranjan Singh Land degradation is the deterioration or the loss of the productive capacity of the soil and is a global challenge that affects through food insecurity, higher food prices, climate change, environmental hazards and loss of biodiversity and ecosystem services. Manipur and North-eastern India is facing major issues concerning land degradation due to land clearance, poor farming practices, overgrazing, inappropriate irrigation, urban sprawl and commercial development.