 • Developing Hitech banana production technologies for increasing the income of the farmersand for domestic and export markets. • Developing climate resilient technologies to tackle abiotic stresses. • Improved post-harvest technologies, waste utilisation and value addition in banana. • Integrated pest and disease management for major pests and diseases. • Dissemination of technologies on improved production, postharvest processing and value addition to all the stakeholders through targeted training programmes. 3. Salient achievements • Recipient of the prestigious Sardar Patel Outstanding ICAR Institution Award 2020 in the category of small Institutes. • Identified promising ITC accessions resistant to Fusarium wilt, race 1 and elite clones like NRCB selection 15 (for dwarfness) and 16 (high beta carotenoid content). 97 Horticultural Science 97 • Development of ICT tools for banana hybridization program, development of Fusarium wilt resistant Grand Nain mutant and identification of markers associated with Fusarium wilt, anthocyanin pigments, etc. • Nutrient dynamics and agro-techniques were developed for the newly released cultivars. Cultivars with high yield potential for leaf industry were identified. Banana starch and its physical and chemical properties were quantified. Biofilms were prepared and evaluated. Drought resistant / tolerant cultivars and drought mitigating chemicals were identified. Anthocyanin profiling and quantification was done for a few north-eastern banana cultivars. Transgenic banana with iron rich events were identified and multiplied. • New and emerging pests of banana and their natural enemies documented and banana hybrids resistant to root-lesion nematodes were identified. • Sources of resistance for TR4 identified based on screening in TR4 hotspots in Bihar. • Novel markers were developed for early detection and monitoring of virulent strains of FocSTR4. • Bioagent consortia for TR 4 management were identified based on field evaluation and a cheap mass production technique standardized for Trichoderma. • Diagnostic kits were developed and validated against BBTV, BBrMV and CMV. • Sea shipment protocol developed for the export of Nendran bananas to the United Kingdom. • Agri-incubation unit established for promoting entrepreneurship in banana-based products. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Bioreactors for micropropagation of banana on large scale. • New cultivars with desirable traits (Kaveri Kalki, Kaveri Sugantham, Kaveri Haritha, Kaveri Saba, Kaveri Kanya). • Farm level macropropogation technology for ruling cultivars. • Technology for production of value-added banana products such as sauce, sweet chutney, jam, baby food, health drink, flour soup mix, squash, blended juice, central stem candy, peel and flower pickles, flour-based noodles, pasta,etc. • Diagnostic kits including lateral flow devices for detection of banana viruses.