 Following TNAU graduates were supported in establishing startups in Agriculture for the last 3 years by the TBI through RKVY RAFTAAR Programme. yy Dr Gowthaman Ramasamy, M/s Kultivate India Private Limited engaged in enabling farmers and enterprises in using advanced ICT technologies and able to generate annual turnover around ` 61 lakhs. yy Dr Devikarani K T, M/s A2 Milk Products is engaged in production of value added products such as curd, ghee and maltodextrin and chemical free milk powder from Indian Native breed cow milk. 84 A meeting of the Vice Chancellors of all State Agricultural Universities/Deemed Universities/ Central Agricultural Universities/ Central Universities with Agriculture Faculty was held at Kanha Shanti Vanam, Hyderabad during 30 September to 2 October 2022. The meeting was jointly organized by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi and Sri Konda Laxman Telangana State Horticultural University (SKLTSHU), Mulugu, Siddipet District, Telangana. Inaugural session was graced by Honorable Governor of Telangana and Lieutenant Governor of Puducherry Dr Tamilisai Soundararajan on the first day. A number of issues related to NEP 2020, NAAC accreditation, QS ranking, revenue generation models, providing best facilities to the students at SAUs were discussed. A historic Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) was signed between ICAR and Heartfulness Education Trust (HET), Kanha Shanti Vanam, Hyderabad on 1 October 2022, during the meeting for cooperation in agricultural research and education. HET proposes to organize various programmes related to life skills, wellness, meditation, yoga, leadership, socio- emotional learning, etc., as credit courses in degree curricula of all agricultural universities. Meeting of Vice Chancellors of Agricultural Universities Agricultural Education Division ICAR, KAB-II, New Delhi 110012 Email: ddg.edu@icar.gov.in; adg.hrd@icar.gov.in Events Organized OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 85 U nder the ICAR- NAHEP Institutional Development Plan (IDP) project, University of Horticultural Sciences (UHS), Bagalkot organised the All India Agri Start-up convention from 18-20 October 2022, to bring together all stakeholders: budding agriprenuers, industrialists, farmers, business incubators, research institutionson a single platform to present and share theirinnovations, experience, expertise, business models and success stories of Agri Start-ups. The event was organised into six technical sessions, inviting academicians, industrialists and entrepreneurs to discuss entrepreneurial opportunities and challenges in the agriculture sector. The University also arranged multiple events such as incubating start-ups at the UHS Technology Business Incubation, launching entrepreneurs' products, Agri-startup exhibitions, hackathons and oral and poster presentations to motivate and support the students and budding entrepreneurs.