 Technology assemblage, application and feedback Recommended technologies from various sources like ICAR-CIFA; OUAT, Bhubaneswar; Central Poultry Development Organization, etc., were demonstrated in the adopted villages as per suitability. Horticultural interventions: In the context of horticulture, the programme had introduced several advanced technologies that have transformed crop yields. • Bitter gourd var. rushaan: Farmers have reported a significant boost in yield, with this improved variety producing an impressive 6.5 t/ha. This represents a substantial increase over traditional varieties. • Bush-type French beans: Varieties such as Arka Arjuna and Arka Sharatha have achieved yields of 10 tonne per ha, demonstrating the effectiveness of these improved seeds. Harvesting of thermo-insensitive variety of cauliflower var. Fujiyama Harvesting of bushy type French beans var. Arka Arjuna and Arka Sharatha Introduction of improved variety of bitter gourd var. Rushaan Livestock advancements: The livestock sector has also benefited the beneficiaries. • Backyard poultry: The introduction of dual-purpose poultry breeds, such as Vanaraja and Rhode Island Red has led to a 33% increase in income for farmers compared to local breeds. This advancement has been particularly beneficial for landless farmers and women from SC and ST communities. Aquaculture practices: Aquaculture has seen transformative changes through the Farmer FIRST Programme. • Composite carp culture: Implemented in both community and individual ponds, this practice has resulted in an average yield of 3 t/ha per year. Key practices include soil and water testing, stocking right size of fingerling at right ratio, supplementary feeding, and regular health monitoring of fish. • Fish-based Integrated Farming System: Dairy, poultry and horticulture crops on the pond embankments have been established in Taraboi, Bramhanakhandi, Barijanga, Purohitpur. Harvesting of table fish of IMC species under scientific carp culture • Cauliflower fujiyama: Known for its ability to grow in off-season conditions, this photo-insensitive cauliflower variety has yielded an average of 18 t/ha, enhancing food security and income. Indian Farming 40 November 2024 Introduction of Vanaraja and Rhode island red breeds under Backyard poultry Increased access to advanced technologies and support provided by the project has enabled the farmers to adopt improved practices. Entrepreneurial impact One notable success story is the Bhagabati Basudeva Swayamseva Gosthi, a self-help group (SHG) from village Turintira (Block Balipatna, District Khordha, Odisha) having ten members led by Smt Sumitra Behera, who has leveraged this intervention for economic empowerment. The group manages a 2.25-acre grow-out pond and a 0.25-acre nursery pond, achieving a harvest of 1.6 t/ha/year and selling table fish at ` 180-200/kg in local markets. The women’ group are involved in fish selling activities.