”- Thirukkural (300 BC) The above sacred verse from an ancient Indian literary text opines that no living person, however minimal his worldly needs be, could think of leading their lives without farming and the statement remains true even today. The Prime Minister’s call to double farmers’ income by 2022 has brought a major change in the focus of agricultural sector from the traditional production orientation to income orientation and created renewed interest among all major stakeholders in the country, ranging from the agricultural research community, policy makers, state authorities, extension agencies, private players, and more importantly the farming community. Several reformative steps have been taken by the Government in this regard which target; re-orientation of focus from intensification to diversification, from sustenance to commercialization, and turning the agricultural units to enterprises. A series of programs/initiatives have been floated by the Govt. to execute and monitor the outreach of technologies, soil health card scheme, simplification of agriculture credit, PM Krishi Sinchayee Yojana, Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana. Price supports are now provided to include several new crops and price stabilisation funds have been created, agriculture credit facilities strengthened. APMC act has been modified and National Agricultural Market (eNAM) platform created to provide direct market access to producers/farmers by linking them to all the major mandis of the country to ensure better returns. To minimise the distress among farming community, innovative agri-insurance scheme besides PM Kisan Samman Nidhi and PM Kisan Pension Yojana have also been started. Entrepreneurship is being promoted for increased income and employment security. In pursuance of the clarion call given by the Hon’ble Prime Minister and the policy initiative taken by the Government of India in this regard, ICAR took efforts to develop state specific strategy documents with major focus on the key agricultural technologies and their combinations along Preface State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 xii with effective technology delivery mechanism and market linkage. In this connection ICAR requested Prof. Ramesh Chand, Member, Agriculture, NITI Aayog to make presentation in the ICAR Directors Conference on 14th February, 2017. Subsequently, ICAR constituted State- wise Coordination Committees (SCCs) with the Vice Chancellor of one of the Agricultural Universities in the state as the Chairman and one of the Directors of ICAR Institutes/ ATARIs as the convener of the Committee. All the other Vice Chancellors and the ICAR Directors, Director, ATARI of the concerned region, one nominee each of DAC&FW, DAHDF, Ministry of Food Processing Industries and Ministry of Water Resources as well as the senior representatives of the concerned State Departments as the members of the Committee.