 Yield: 1400 kg/ha ICAR-DMAPR, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat All Isabgol growing areas Released in Released in 2015 Vallabh Isabgol-2 Maturity range (Days): 100-105 Average yield: 916 to 1360 kg/ha Higher seed yield and early maturity ICAR-DMAPR, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh Released in 2016 Vallabh Isabgol-3 Maturity range (Days): 100-105 Average yield: 897 to 1440 kg/ha Higher seed yield and early maturity ICAR-DMAPR, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat Gujarat, Rajasthan, Madhya Released in Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh Released in 2016 Varietal development With the efforts of ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (ICAR-DMAPR), Anand and ICAR-All India Coordinated Research Projects on Medicinal, Aromatic Plants and Betelvine (ICAR- AICRPMAPB), eight improved varieties (GI 1, GI 2, GI 3, HI-5, RI-1, VI-1, VI-2 and VI-3) have been released for commercial cultivation (Table 1). Besides, the CSIR- Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (CIMAP), Lucknow also released a variety called Niharika through mutation breeding. ICAR-DMAPR, Vallabh Isabgol-1 Vallabh Isabgol-2 September–October 2023 13 Anand has developed some high yielding varieties (Vallabh Isabgol -1, 2 and 3) with distinct morphological marker traits. The directorate is working on the improvement of this species through mutation breeding, ploidy breeding, recombination breeding and identification of QTLs for yield and downey mildew resistance, and the AICRP centres are trying to develop location specific varieties. Production pockets of Isabgol in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh Barmer, Jalore, Sirohi, Pali, Bikaner, Jaisalmer, Falaudi, Jodhpur, Udaipur and Nagor are the major areas of cultivation of Isabgol in Rajasthan. In Gujarat, major areas of cultivation are Patan, Palanpur, Siddhapur, Mehsana, Sabarkantha, Anand and Surendranagar. In Madhya Pradesh, major areas are Mandsaur, Neemuch, Rattlam. However, the crop is spreading in non-traditional parts of the country such as Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Karnataka. Research issues from market point of view and product development y Isabgol is an important cash crop in Gujarat, Rajasthan and Madhya Pradesh. The biosynthesis of the secondary metabolites of the medicinal plants is under genetic control, and environmental factors play an important role. Environmental factors such as cultivation practices (such as sowing date, fertilizer level and water supply) have marked effects on plant growth and the production of secondary metabolites. Isabgol is chilling sensitive, therefore, its seeds should not be sown in the early winter. y Plant sensitivity to environment and management factors varies according to the developmental stage. To meet agricultural demands and growing competition for water, a more effective use of water in both irrigated and rainfed agriculture is essential.