 Š Š Effort should be made to adopt only recommended varieties and avoid monoculture to prevent emergence of new pathogens/new races of the pathogens and disease epidemics. CS12 i Name of the Applicant Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS), IARI, New Delhi ii Title National Conference on Preparedness of Indian Agriculture vis a vis Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) iii Venue and Date(s) 11-12 May 2017 at NASC Complex, New Delhi iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(9)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Need to strengthen conventional plant breeding (including pre-breeding) and emphasize on adoption of GM technology both in field and horticultural crops for which policy support is needed. Š Š Availability of good quality seed including hybrids and planting material is the need of hour. Š Š Work on pre-and post harvest losses are to be strengthened. CS13 i Name of the Applicant Department of Botany, University of Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir. ii Title National Conference on Fungal Biology: Recent Trends and Future Prospects & 44th Annual Meeting of Mycological Society of India iii Venue and Date(s) 16 to18 Nov. 2017 at Department of Botany, University of Jammu, Jammu & Kashmir 21 iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.F.No.23(32)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Fungal studies need to be popularized in Union Territories of Jammu & Kashmir and Leh & Ladakh as the region is rich in macro-fungal resources due to varied agro-climate zones. The University of Jammu, Jammu and Agricultural Universities of the region should explore the possibilities of collaborative research in this regard. Š Š There is an ardent need to create some fungal culture collection centers for availability of authentic fungal cultures for advanced studies. CS14 i Name of the Applicant Trust for Advancement of Agricultural Sciences (TAAS), IARI, New Delhi ii Title National Symposium on Plant Health Management: Embracing Eco-Sustainable Paradigm iii Venue and Date(s) 15-17 February 2018 at Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 5.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(35)/2017-Cdn.(Tech.) vi Recommendations: Š Š Climate change impact on plant health should be given more emphasis. In this regard two diseases specially mentioned are Cercospora disease and Spot blotch in wheat. Š Š Certain disease like smut of wheat and powdery mildew diseases earlier considered to be of minor importance has become major ones, needs special attention. Š Š Domestic and International quarantine regulatory measures should be strengthened. Š Š Morphological taxonomy should go hand in hand with chemo- and molecular taxonomy. Š Š Commercialized microbial formulations need to be strictly covered under regulatory measures to maintain qualitative standards.