7 kg yield/ha/mm of rain Rainfall requirement 200–500 mm 500–900 mm Indian Farming 73 January 2023 greatly benefit from the C4 photosynthetic trait as the Kranz anatomy increases the concentration of CO2 in the bundle sheath, suppresses photo-respirative loss (around 80%) depending on the environment and increases the carboxylase activity of RuBisCO. RuBisCO of C4 plants works efficiently at elevated CO2 levels, have enhanced photosynthetic rates at warm conditions, confers higher water use efficiency (WUE) and nitrogen use efficiency (NUE) which are ~ 1.5–4-fold higher than crops having C3 photosynthesis. In addition to WUE and NUE, the other benefits from C4 photosynthesis are improved growth, higher biomass allocation and partitioning, and lower hydraulic conductivity per unit leaf area. These traits, make them next-generation crops with the potential to build climate-resilience and achieve sustainable yield. Realizing the stress tolerance potential of millets, using millet as a model crop is a promising option for developing climate-resilient crop species. Some of the key photosynthetic efficient components of C4 crops over C3 crops are given in Table 2. To fully harness the underlying genetic potential using high- throughput phenotypic screening, conventional/ molecular breeding/transgenic approaches and technologies are needed to exploit the inherent key traits in stress tolerance across millet crops. Despite their adaptability and climate resilience traits among other cereal crops, there is a dearth of studies to unveil mechanisms that confer stress tolerance. Further, resilient traits must be utilized for selection of superior and high yielding germplasm for competing the yield potential of major cereals like rice and wheat. SUMMARY Millets hold enormous potential for sustainable food and nutritional security. The underlying physiological characteristics highlight millets as a crop of choice for the global population, especially under the threat of climate change. Thus, highlighting the need for climate smart crops, farmers switching to cultivation of millets from water intensive crops will achieve an assured yield of around 8–10 quintal per acre with low input costs. Further, choosing millets over rice and wheat can help to accomplish the sustainable development goals (SDGs) – mainly SDG 2 (zero hunger), SDG 3 (good health and well-being), SDG 12 (sustainable consumption and production) and most importantly SDG 13 (climate action). *Corresponding author’s e-mail: srividhya@millets.res.in Indian Farming 74 January 2023 Physiological seed priming techniques in millets Seva Nayak Dheeravathu*, S Srividhya, R Swarna and Avinash Singode ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 In recent years, various strategies are being employed in order to induce the abiotic stress tolerance in plants. It is well accepted fact that physiological seed priming fastens the germination time.