 Connectivity and availability of e-resources across libraries, connectivity of libraries on a single platform through uniform solutions, along with emphasis on capacity building of the students and faculties through various training programmes under the scheme as well as NAHEP and NAARM has raised the standard of PG research as evident by increased number of publications in high impact journals. AUs were also supported for encouraging holistic development of students, through creation of placement cells, support for sports facilities. Various programmes/activities also facilitated promotion of higher agricultural education and also helped reduce ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 6 OVERVIEW academic inbreeding, infuse merit and promote national integration in AUs. These include centralized admissions in UG/PG and Ph.D.; award and distribution of fellowships to attract and retain the talent and promote merit, admission of foreign students for globalization of agricultural education, National Professorial Chairs and National Fellow Scheme for promotion of excellence in research, Emeritus Scientist / Emeritus Professor Schemes as a structural method of utilizing skill bank of the outstanding superannuated professionals in various disciplines to address faculty shortage. The key components of NAHEP, viz. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), Institutional development Plan (IDP), and Innovation Grants improved performance of AUs through entrepreneurship opportunities, non accredited AUs attaining accreditation and helped accelerate institutional reforms. NAARM contributes immensely on wide range of issues of national and global importance apart from various courses on capacity building. The Academy has also been promoting online and digital education, start ups for agripreneurship. Social science: Income scenario of agricultural households in India along with variations in various income components were examined across different rounds of the Situation Assessment Survey of Agricultural Households (SAS-AH). Agricultural households usually derived income from farm and non-farm sources. Agricultural sustainability report of 24 Indian states, studied using 51 indicators across four dimensions (soil, water, environmental and socio- economic), revealed that a moderate level of agricultural sustainability in India with the Composite Index of Agricultural Sustainability (CIAS 0.41–0.57). The inter-state variations in CIAS are quite pronounced. An android-based application-eLISS data collection app was developed to capture data from the field for major livestock products. The KISAAN 2:0 (Krishi Integrated Solution for Agri Apps Navigation) App, was envisaged to help e-agriculture and to drive smart phone based agriculture in India. This app integrates more than 300 Agricultural related apps developed by ICAR Institutes. KISAAN 2.