 Also, household size was a significant driving force responsible for farmers shifting to other source of income. In the last decade, the compound growth rate of cumulative patent filed in the agricultural sector in India was 12.5%, which was higher than the growth rate of global total (11%). The study suggested more efforts and investment in promoting and filing of patents for public institution are required. In the technology foresight project, emerging genome editing techniques, its application in crops, and policy challenges in India, were reviewed. The newer breeding technologies (NBTs) offer easier way to do cisgenic breeding (no-foreign DNA). One of the key questions is to decide whether the crops developed through these technologies are to be considered as GM or non-GM. The authorities in India had decided to review on case-by-case basis and also it has to go through review at state level. Another major concern is access to this technology are issues of patenting and commercialisation which might make the method more expensive in developing countries. The climatic shocks are location-specific, there is a need to strengthen location-specific early warning systems to provide timely information to farmers on weather conditions so that they are better-prepared to choose crops and other agronomic practices in anticipation of a weather shock. Analysis of livelihood security status of agro-climatic zones suggested the need for prioritizing vulnerable/less developed areas to arrest regional imbalances, prevent overexploitation and to leverage unutilized potential of agro-climatic zones. A study emphasized a much needed cropping pattern re-alignment across the zones based on water availability and footprints. Productivity growth in agriculture has improved despite absolute decline in number of farmers and agricultural laborers. Results showed that marginal and small farm households are more likely to shift from agriculture, and such shift intensifies with exposure to distress factors. The labor shift and resulting wage growth in agriculture led to mechanization in farm operations; though replacing labor with machines could be difficult, reducing the cost of hiring machines would enhance mechanization. Statistics and computer applications: An innovative methodology to estimate the extent of household poverty in different districts, was developed. These estimates of rural poverty incidence will be useful for policy research and strategic planning. The global use of germplasm is often encountered with sovereignty and access benefit sharing (ABS) issues. VISTa—World’s first rapid crop variety identification system, was developed to store genotypic data. The tool can be pivotal in management and implementation of material transfer agreement, trans-border movement, varietal piracy, patent dispute, sovereignty issues, Nagoya protocol and ABS issues, traceability and adulteration.