 vii. Promotion of pomegranate and grape cultivation. D. Central Dry Zone i. Soil and moisture conservation and RWH through watershed approach. ii. Dry land horticulture (mango and sapota, pomegraganate, amla) and alternate land use systems. iii. Large scale production of short duration crops:green gram, sesame, onion, groundnut. iv. Small ruminant and poultry production. v. Enhancing yield potential of maize and cotton based cropping systems. vi. Introduction of efficient intercrops in arecanut plantation. vii. Increasing compost/manure production for improvement of soil fertility status. viii. Dryland horticulture (amla, pomegranate, custard apple, mango, sapota, cashew) medicine/ aromatic plants. ix. Alternate land use systems - agro forestry, horti-pasture, agri-horti, silvi-pastures. x. Promotion of Mango + Cowpea intercropping. E. Eastern Dry Zone i. Soil moisture conservation & soil fertility improvement through watershed approach. ii. Soil enrichment through composting/green manuring/ tank silt application. iii. Alternate land-use systems like Agri-horti system for arable lands (mango, sapota, 253 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 tamarind, jack fruit etc.), Horti-silvi system (mango, sapota + silver oak, casurina, teak), Silvipasture (block plantation of acacia, silver oak, casurina, D.sisso, Melia azardicta, cassia and muthuga + S. hamata, S. scabra, calaproimum, anjan, Guinea macuaena, etc.) for non-arable lands. iv. Dryland vegetables (chillies, beans, brinjal, tomato, cluster bean, gourds etc.), Floriculture (chrysanthemum, jasmine, crossandra marigold, roses etc.) fruits (guava, amla, sapota, cashew and mango), sericulture and coconut plantations. v. Livestock component (dairy, sheep, piggery, rabbitry). vi. Facilitating processing, value addition and export of fruit products and flowers. vii. Protective farming in vegetable crops (tomato). F. Southern Dry Zone i. Watershed development for augmenting surface and groundwater. ii. Development of orchards - mango, cashew, jack and sapota. iii. Water-saving irrigation methods and cost-saving planting methods for irrigated ginger and turmeric. iv. Fruits and vegetable cultivation with dairying in conjunction with feed and fodder development. v. Promotion of millets, sericulture and small onions cultivation. G. Southern Transition Zone i. Development of cashew, mango, sapota, (dryland orchards) and oil palm, banana, coconut, papaya, guava with seasonal irrigation. ii. Promotion of vermi composting and organic farming. iii. Alternatives to tobacco based cropping systems. iv. Promotion of exotic fruits like rambutan, avacado, etc. H. Northern Transition Zone i. Watershed development for soil and water conservation. ii. Development of sheep, dairy and fodder/pasture production. iii. Promotion of intercropping in mango and sapota orchards with legumes and vegetables. iv. Promotion of exotic vegetables for export. v.