 Pusa Centenary and cv. Yellow Star according to treatments and their effect on leaf wilting, leaf yellowing and vase life was studied (Table 1). It was concluded from the study that the spraying of flowers of Pusa Centenary with 100 ppm and Yellow Star with 50 ppm concentration of ascorbic acid delayed foliage discoloration (leaf yellowing, wilting, browning), petal senescence and also enhanced the vase life of cut stems. These findings were also evident from involvement of antioxidant enzymes in regulation of foliage discoloration and petal wilting after 14 days after treatment. It is attributed to the fact that the ascorbic acid is absorbed directly through the leaves, thereby preserving the chlorophyll content and also enhanced endogenous ascorbic acid level. Ascorbic acid spray was helpful for keeping the cut flowers fresh, turgid and attractive for longer time. However, since foliage discoloration has been found cultivar specific, there is a need to standardize the ascorbic acid levels for each chrysanthemum cultivar. It is also essential to validate efficacy of ascorbic acid in other important ethylene insensitive flowers. For further interaction, please write to: Ritu Jain, Division of Floriculture and Landscaping, ICAR-IARI, New Delhi 110 012. *Corresponding author e-mail: ritujain. unf@gmail.com For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers.