 Considering this scenario, Sasya Shyamala KVK took an initiative of cluster based entrepreneurship development approach with the farm women of 5 villages of South 24 Parganas district, West Bengal through trainings followed by establishment of compost production unit (32 nos.) and regular monitoring for quality compost production. The success of this approach is not only limited to the pooled amount of compost production (14–16 t/year) by the beneficiaries throughout the year, but also a significant horizontal dissemination among other interested farmers (35 nos.) by observing the economic benefit (`5000/year/unit) through marketing of compost, vermiwash and earthworms. This endeavour not only helps in proper utilization of agri wastes, but also increases compost production and utilization, reduces fertilizer requirement, alternative income source, women empowerment and sustainable soil health management. Keywords: Entrepreneurship, Organic farming, Vermicompost I N recent days, different organic composts in semi-urban and rural areas are in demand as a result of increasing awareness regarding proper utilization of agricultural wastes and need for improving soil health and crop quality. Considering the health and environmental aspects, urban population is getting inclined to the consumption of organic based products resulting high demand for their urban gardening. The farmers are also becoming serious about the incorporation of different composts in their management practices to reduce the use and cost of inorganic fertilizers, minimize the soil and water pollution and more importantly to improve their soil health. Thus, the commercial production of compost is now becoming a profitable venture to the farmers and rural youths. Generally, farmers were used to either discard Indian Farming 73 (05): 03-06; May 2023 or dump their agricultural wastes in a pit for long and produce little efficient farmyard compost. In rural areas, more than 60% of total available cow dung was utilized for fuel purpose as the process is easy and economically profitable. Utilization of cow dung as compost was either from heaping in a open pit or through broadcasting the dried cow dung in the field. But both the practices are not considered as good nutrient supply processes to improve soil health or re-establish the soil organic reserve. Among the different composts prepared from the green wastes, animal excreta or agricultural residues, vermicompost is the best option in respect of nutrient source and economic profitability from the entrepreneurship development. Though a few farmers who have already produced the vermicompost for their own utilization either used the less efficient local earthworms or their production techniques are unscientific for higher production.