 Track A represents 7 pseudochromosomes. Track B to E represent the distribution of protein-coding genes, Retrotransposons, DNA elements and Simple sequence repeats, respectively. Track F represents gene duplications in the cluster bean genome. (c) Benchmarking Universal Single-Copy Orthologs (BUSCO) analysis of cluster bean annotated genes. Decoding of cell organelle genomes of popular Indian tea genotype, TV1 Using PacBio and Illumina Mate-pair reads, first ever reported chloroplast (cp) (157,353 bp) and mitochondrial (mt) genome (707,441 bp) of Indian tea (Camellia assamica) were successfully assembled and analyzed. The chloroplast genome comprised a typical circular quadripartite structure with 2 inverted repeats (IRa and IRb, 26,031 bp each), a large single copy (LSC) and a small single copy (SSC) region of 87,213 bp and 18,078 bp, respectively. Chloroplast genome comprised 126 genes while mitochondrial genome has 66 genes. The LSC-IR and SSC-IR junctions along with 6 randomly selected cp genes were validated and confirmed by PCR. Map of the chloroplast genome (a) and mitochondrial genome (b) of Indian tea showing annotated genes with different functional groups that are color-coded on outer circle as transcribed clock-wise (outside) and transcribed counter clock-wise (inside). The inner circle indicates the GC content as dark grey plot. Transgenics in pigeonpea for resistance to pod- borer, Helicoverpa armigera: Transgenics were CROP IMPROVEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 58 developed in pigeonpea expressing two independent Bt genes (cry1AcF and cry2Aa) to impart resistance to the devastating herbivore, Helicoverpa armigera. The transgenic plants (T) revealed high level of resistance against deliberate herbivore challenge as compared to non-transgenic wild type (WT) plants. Ten transgenics events (5 each with cry1AcF and cry2Aa) were identified based on stringent bioefficacy and molecular characterization have been advanced to Event Selection Trials (approved by RCGM). Development of a robust in vitro regeneration and transformation protocol for maize: Twenty eight diverse tropical maize (Zea mays) genotypes were evaluated for their embryogenic callus induction potential using mature seed derived two different explants (nodal explants and split-embryo region) under two different callusing media. Out of 28 genotypes, better callus induction was achieved in four genotypes (BML 6, DHM 117, DMRH 1301, and DMRH 1308) from nodal explants. Further, in-vitro regeneration was standardized using 22 different combinations of various auxins and cytokinins. Out of 28 genotypes, two recently commercialized and high yielding cultivars (DMRH 1301 and DMRH 1308) demonstrated the best callusing and regeneration capability with an average regeneration percentage of 60.4% and 53.6%, respectively.