 Hump is large and well developed. Dewlap is medium, thin and pendulous. Face is short. Horns are grey, white or black, long, curved and lyre shaped. Ears are long, large and pendulous. Udder is small and milk veins are not prominent. Gait is Swai chal. Temperament is furious. Evaluation of bulls through progeny testing is being undertaken at the DURA, Mehsana. The dam milk yield of bulls put to test ranged from 2,257 to 3,065 kg. Ponwar cattle: This breed is primarily maintained for draught purpose. Ponwar cattle constitute approximately 30% of the cattle population in its breeding tract— Puranpur block of Pilibhit district. Bullocks are fast and good for agricultural operations. These animals are maintained on grazing in the forest area. Coat colour of the animals is brown or black with white patches in different proportions. Colour of the muzzle, eyelids and hoofs is generally black. Tail switch is white in black animals and black in those having more patches of white. Body is small, compact and non-fleshy. Skin is tight. Face is small and narrow and ears are small. Forehead is slightly concave, narrow and has a white marking. Horns are small to medium and curving inward with pointed tips. Ears are erect sideways and have pointed tips. Dewlap is medium. Hump is small in females and developed in males. Tail is long and reaches below the hock. Cows have small udder and teats. The animals of this breed are aggressive. Livestock and Poultry Improvement and Management l Population data of various livestock species are available. l Kankrej, Ponwar, Gangatiri and Kherigarh cattle were studied. l Jalauni,Kheri,Mandya,Hassan and Mecheri sheep surveyed in their home tract. l Higher absorbance of immuno- globulins reduces mortality in calves. l Insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 gene studied in cattle. l Dwarf and naked neck birds superior in antibody titres compared to their crosses. l Molecular characterization of Indian livestock and poultry breeds is being done. l DNA repository established for Indian livestock and poultry breeds. Kankrej are mostly kept by rabbaries.Evaluation of bulls through progeny testing is under process. LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 93 Cows produce little milk about 0.5 to 2.5 kg/day for 8 to 10 (average 8.85 ± 0.24) months. Lactation milk yield averaged 458.75 ± 24.02 kg. Age at first calving ranges from 40 to 60 (average 50.8 ± 1.27) months. Intercalving period averaged 12.65 ± 0.27 months and service period varied from 60 to 100 (average 76 ± 2.75) days. Cows remain dry for an average of 114 ± 6.89 days. Bullocks of this breed can easily transport 8 to 10 q of load up to 10 km and can plough one acre of land in a day working for 6 to 8 hr. Gangatiri cattle: Gangatiri is an important dual purpose cattle breed of Uttar Pradesh. They are mainly found in the doaba belt of eastern Uttar Pradesh and adjacent area of Bihar.