 • Watering the plant precisely when and how much it need: Every crop has varying water requirements, which also depend on the stage of plant development. Understanding the plant’s irrigation requirements at any given time, results in best produce, a longer storage time and better disease management, etc. • Enhanced quality yields: The specific requirements of a crop at each stage of growth are met by precision irrigation. By doing this, the fruit improves in quality and may be preserved for a longer period of time without going bad. • Helps with environmental policies compliance: Sustainable farming practices are required by new environmental regulations to save water while improving yields to feed the world’s expanding population. By exhibiting sustainable practices and, with the correct technology, being able to precisely report on water use, precision irrigation helps the agriculture sector to meet both objectives. • Reducing manual labour: In large farms, automated precision irrigation reduces the need for additional labour. For instance, flow sensors eliminate the need for manual inspections and can notify operators for maintenance. Indian Farming 24 April 2023 • Effective in weed management: It reduces the emergence of weeds because the soil is watered only around the plant, and unwanted vegetation doesn’t get enough moisture. SUMMARY To combat the issues of shortage and quality against the back-drop of climate change, we must use water resources more efficiently. The management of scarce irrigation water plays a big part in improving water usage effectiveness. Precision irrigation has been demonstrated as one of these innovations; however, at the moment there is the little economic benefit to be had from using this technique for field-scale agricultural production. While precision irrigation has achieved significant advancements in some advanced countries, it is still in its infancy in India. Factors including small land holding size, expensive investment requirements and field heterogeneity in terms of water and nutrient stress, limits precision irrigation system adoption. It is anticipated that both farmers and users would benefit greatly from the integration of machine learning techniques and mobile and web solutions. Anyone who is interested in the digitization of the farming process, including farmers, researchers and generalists, will find this study useful. Future research will address the environmental issues connected to automated farm’s use of digital irrigation management technology. It goes without saying that the idea of managing irrigation water with precision is excellent and has many benefits. Yet, moving from the concept stage to field, acceptance takes significant resources, including both, human and capital infrastructure, as well as government policy assistance. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: sandeepverma35529@gmail.