 If the medicine is applied at the onset of the disease, the inflammed area subsides automatically, and in advanced case recovery is evident with drainage of pus from the affected region. Keywords: junjunia, pus, drainage In this ITK, the raw fruits of bhot bengana (Solanum torutn) are given orally for 5 days to the diseased animal. This proved to be successful. Keywords: bhot bengana, abscess Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri S. Dhonokanta Das, Borgaon, dist. Kamrup (Assam) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3191 Use of leaves of mohaneem and bih dhekia to cure scabies in goats Equal quantities (50 pieces) of leaves of mohaneem (Azadirachta indica) and bih dhekia {Lygodium japonicum) are boiled in water and the water is used as the medicine. The affected animal is given bath with the water daily until recovery. Keywords: mohaneem, bih dhekia Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 3192 Treatment of scabies by leaves of vent 3193 Overcoming the problem of itching in animals Scabies is a skin problem in animals. A local plant, known as vent (Helerofragma roxbargii) is available in the Athmallick subdivision of Orissa. In this practice, 7 8 leaves of very are taken and a paste is made. This paste is applied on the scabies affected animal in the night for 7 days. This practice is very effective. Keywords: veru, scabies When animals of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) feel uneasiness due to itching, the cattle owners collect 30^40 g green or dried (dried is preferred) inflorescence of kali tuhi Shri Gopinath Pradhan, Athmallik (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture Content VETERINARY SCTENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3194 Treatment of shoulder swelling in animals with sayor (Ocimum amricanum) from the nearby forest or kitchen garden and crush it to prepare a powder. This powder is mixed in 250 ml water and given as supplement to the suffering animal with the help of bamboo pipe. This dose is repeated for 3-4 times a day and may be continued up to 7 or 8 days. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: kali tulsi, inflorescence, itching, uneasy For the treatment of shoulder swelling in animals, about 200 g sayor branches are taken and fried in 1 kg mustard oil. This oil is used for message on the swelling of shoulder twice daily. The swelling is cured. This ITK is practised in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh.