 Some of the important equipment modified to be used by the women workers and these are given below:. • TNAU Four row paddy seeder (output: 0.014 ha/h) About 40 % saving in seed rate and 60% saving in cost and time when compared to transplanting. • TNAU Groundnut stripper (Output :44kg/h with four workers as against 25 kg/h in traditional practice), • TNAU Fertilizer broadcaster (output: 0.76 ha/h workers as against 0.30 ha/h in traditional practice), • OUAT Pedal operated paddy thresher (Output: 35 kg/h workers as against 30 kg/h in traditional practice and the discomfort due to bending and hand lifting is avoided), • OUAT sugarcane stripper (output : 46kg/h workers as against 38 kg/h in traditional practice and the injuries are avoided), 6. Status of implementation of Dangerous Machine (Regulation) Act 1983 In 1983, the Parliament passed an act to provide for the regulation of trade and commerce in and production, supply, distribution and use of the product of any industry producing dangerous machines with a view to securing the welfare of labour operating any such machines and for payment of compensation for the death or bodily injury suffered by any labourers while operating any such machine, and for matters connected therewith or incidental thereto. Inspite of passing of more than 20 years, this Act has been adopted by some states only. Therefore, correspondence was made with all the states to get information on implementation of the act. Perusal of the replies and the situation prevalent in different states indicate that in most of the states where the act is notified, it is in dormant stage. Considering this situation, various provisions of the act have been examined by us and modifications needed for better implementation were prepared and submitted to Deptt. of Agril & Cooperation of Govt. of India, for needful. 1 10 Researc www.ica All Indi 1. Title 2. Nam Proje 3. Rese in th Introduct The role o enhancem farm oper water. Un economic implemen For deve different and Mach Year Plan or more manufact 4. Achieve 4.1. Tract Rotavator and wetla manuring revolving rotavator harvested 60% of ti capacity i there is a 4.2. Tract attachme and creat Tractor‐d back of th this mach h Achieveme ar.org.in ia Coordin of the Projec me and Addr ect Coordinat earch Achieve he last five ye tion of improved f ment of produ rations and e nder dynamic c factors, iden nts and mach lopment, tes regions of the hinery (FIM) w with six Cent of the five d uring, protot ements Durin tor Mounted r) is suitable and condition g. Pulverizing blades of rot results in ab d fields, respe me and 20‐3 is 0.25 ha/h. saving of Rs. tor mounted nt to cultivat es hardpan in rawn pulveri he cultivator hine in fuel an nts of AICRPs nated Res ct ress of the tor ements (New ears): farm impleme uctivity, has b nabling effici c situation of ntification of f inery are of p sting and po e country, the was started by tres.