 Use of geospatial technologies for efficient conservation of PGR needs to done. E-pest surveillance and monitoring should be standardized with latest GPS based, real time and robotic tools for important horticultural crops. Wild relatives of horticultural crops need to be explored against biotic & Abiotic stresses and desired nutritional traits to develop/improve high yielding commercial varieties. 3. Natural Resources Management Twenty seven meetings were organized covering climate change related aspects of rain- fed agriculture, advances in agro-meteorology doubling farmers’ income through agronomic interventions and integrated farming system, soil and water conservation technologies and boosting production potential of coastal agriculture. The most significant recommendations pertaining to each SMD are summarized below: Agro-meteorological Research: ICAR should encourage the SAUs to established separate Department of Agricultural Meteorology in each SAU and start PG programs. ICAR may Institute Advance Training Centers in Agricultural Meteorology. Setting up a center within the administrative structure of ICAR will certainly boost the climate change research activities in agriculture in India. Creation of E-Agromet Knowledge Bank using advanced ICT tools at State level needs to be encouraged following the initiatives of ICAR for Climate Resilient Agriculture. Agro-meteorology being a comparative young but essential discipline, exclusive opportunities is created for human resources development and advanced level training at ASRB/ICAR/SAUs. Climate-resilient Agriculture: Demonstration and popularization of climate-resilient low- cost technologies that help securing better improved crop varieties/hybrids resilient against climate shocks, , agronomic packages adjusting crop calendars, sowing and harvesting time as well as ensuring appropriately designed insurance products, timely availability of certified seeds and planting materials of high yielding varieties and hybrids having multiple resistance to biotic and abiotic stresses. Establishment of block level weather based agro-met advisory services, Department of Agro meteorology in every Agricultural Universities to produce trained Agro meteorologists and Pests and Diseases Monitoring System using weather model, information technology and geospatial technology at national / region levels. Documentation, identification and standardization of climate resilient (such as efficient in CO2 assimilation, efficient water utilizing, high temperature tolerant, shade tolerant and multi – stress tolerant) agroforestry germplasm 5 is required. To monitor changes in pest and disease profiles and predict new pest and disease outbreaks, an early warning system should be put in place.