 It is mentioned that cow urine, kunapajala and anti-insect botanical herbal such as asafetida, sweet flag, atis root, blackpeeper, vidange (emblica), marking nut seeds, black mustard (sarsap) and indrayan (cucumber) were used for pest management by vegetable growers. Vishvavallabh by Shri Chakrapani Mishra (C. 1577 AD) mentioned about the contagious nature of plant diseases on vegetable crops. It has described integrated crop health management technique for diseases like granthika (root knot), jyoti (chlorosis) and rupaka (mildew of lotus) by protection techniques. Rainy season is the best time recommended for sowing all types of seeds and planting trees, autumn and spring are mediocre seasons for the sowing of seeds (Visvavallabha, 4.1). Nusrat Dar Fanni-Falhat (the art of agriculture) the text by Mughal prince Dara Shikoh (1650 AD) described idea of drip irrigation (keeping two water-filled pitchers with small hole at the bottom) and application of inorganic fertilizer (nitre) on vegetable vines which are most widely opted practice by vegetable farmers. It is also mentioned that cultivation of legume vegetable baqula (broad bean-Vicia faba) as an intercrop for green manuring is noteworthy. Krishi Parashar by Parashar (C. 400 BC) is the first textbook on agriculture which has mentioned of good agricultural practices (GAP) in farming, knowledge of varietal characteristics of seed, storing of the seed, importance of good seeds, development of farm implement and associated scientific knowledge of astrology for seed sowing and other time bounded farm operations. Weeding should be done twice in Asvina to make farms free from weeds for good yield (Krishi Parasara, 189, 192). Krishi Gita (agricultural verses) is a text on indigenous practices on cultivation of vegetables amaranths, ash gourd, banana/plantain, bottle gourd, brinjal, chilli, cocoyam bean (lablab bean), cowpea, elephant foot yam, fenugreek, ivy gourd, melon, snake gourd, taro, turmeric, watermelon and yam are mentioned. An ancient Sanskrit text Vrikshayurveda (the science of plant life) by Surpala (C 1000 AD) mentioned 170 species of agriculture and horticulture plant with their detailed package of practices. It described seed extraction method from ripened dried fruits and seed treatment with milk, cow dung, honey and vidanga (goose berry/emblica). Amarakosa (C. 300-500 AD) Sanskrit text by Amarsinha contained information on ecology, biodiversity, taxonomy, cultivation and economic botany with reference to horticultural crops. It is mentioned that Varivarga (Anupa/apsuja) meaning place with plenty of water where aquatic plants (hydrophytes) grow, e.g. Kumudva, aquatic place where lotuses grow; nadimatika (irrigated fields) and devmatika (non-irrigated/rainfed fields).