 Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1285 Treatment of haemorrhagic septicaemia by kalajeera : This method, practised in many villages of Badaun and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh, is very effective to cure the disease, at the initial stage. Paste of kalajeera is applied on the throat of HS-affected animal. : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamia Nagar, New Delhi 110 025 : Badaun district is located in western Uttar Pradesh. The climate is semi-arid, hot and sub- humid, suitable to occurrence of hemorrhagic septicemia in large ruminants. Animal husbandry is a supporting business to native farmers along with agricultural farming, by keeping 3-6 buffaloes. They were fully aware of this disease in large animals, its clinical symptoms, efforts and conventional therapy. The farmers were having education of metric to high school level. Dr V.S. Vihan, Head, Dr Ashok Kumar, Senior Scientist and Dr Rajneesh Rana, Senior Scientist, Division of Animal Health, Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG) Makhdoom, Farah 281 122, Mathura (U.P.) METHODOLOGY Kalajeera powder (100 g) was mixed in jaggery or water to make a paste, and it was applied on swollen throat area to treat haemorr-hagic septicaemia in animals. Extract of kalajeera (Vernonia anthelmintica) was prepared in different solvents, viz. chloroform, acetone, benzene, methanol, ethanol and ether, by using Soxhlet extraction assembly. Besides, hot aqueous extract was also prepared with reflux method to study antibiotic profile under in-vitro drug-sensitivity test. Different concentrations of these extracts, ranging between 32,16,8,4 and 2 mg were prepared and absorbed over sterile disc with all sterile precautions. The Muller-Hinton plates were prepared and their sterility was checked. Pasteurella multocida B:2 culture was poured over the plates and excess growth was removed. The kala jeera extract absorbed discs were placed over these media plates, along with the control discs. The plates were incubated at 37°C and the zones of inhibition against Pasteurella multocida B:2 strain of each extract at different concentrations were recorded. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Phytochemical study: The yield (%) of different extracts varied. It was maximum for the hot methanolic (17.98%) extract and minimum for the hot ether extract (5.40%). On chemical analysis of the extracts, phenolic compounds were detected, whereas none of the extracts revealed the presence of glycosides or alkaloids. Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 1.