 The size of the basin depends on the age of the palm and it is in accordance with the size of the functional root one. During the first year after planting, the functional root zone extends only up to one metre area from the point of planting. Thereby, a basin size of one metre radius around the palm is advised and they are to be immediately after planting. Basins are to be maintained weed free to avoid loss of nutrients and water. During the second year, 2 m radius basin is to be made around the palm base. Even if basin irrigation is given, the loss of water and nutrients would be substantially minimal in basins. From 3rd year onwards 3 m radius basins are recommended. These basins are to be made in a circular fashion by pushing the soil inside the basin towards brim of the basin to make it a round shaped ring. This helps in avoiding loss of water and nutrients to go away from the effective root zone area. Water management: From the spatial analysis of rainfall pattern of the country, NER, certain pockets of Kerala and Andaman & Nicobar Islands were found to be better suited for growing oil palm under rainfed conditions for most part of the year. However, wherever water source is available, it is recommended to provide irrigation for better growth and performance due to the inherent problems of NER with respect to slope, low minimum temperature and relatively low RH, the suitable Seed garden in Mizoram Training Programme in NER Indian Horticulture 94 areas for oil palm cultivation here are under moderately and marginally suitable categories. However with proper supply of nutrients and water, there is ample possibility to improve the productivity of these areas. As there are large differences in distribution patterns of rainfall among these areas, it is expected that the detrimental impacts of long dry periods could be reasonably minimized by supplying water at intermittent frequencies. In general, the ET0 of this NER is nearly 1/3rd of mainland and therefore water supply can be adjusted accordingly. As estimated by the Ministry of Jalshakti, Government of India, the average monthly evaporation range in NER is 6 cm in December to 20 cm in May. Whereas, in peninsular India, it is 15 cm to 40 cm per month for the same period. Generally, dry period exists during winter (October/ November to February/March) and the evaporation during this period is estimated to be low. On an average, 100 litres per palm per day is the average water requirement during this period. By supplying this much quantity, the full water requirement of the crop can be met. Mulching the basins with oil palm plantation waste, evaporation losses could be minimized. Nutrient management: Deep loamy, well drained, alluvial soils rich in organic matter are best suited soils for oil palm. The preferred pH ranges from 5.0 to 7.0. Saline, alkaline, heavy soils with poor drainage, coastal sandy soils with poor water holding capacity should be avoided for oil palm cultivation.