 The income of farmers with the improved varieties was increased from ₹ 23,911 to 46,692 in soybean and ₹ 33,943 to 46,167 in black soybean from per hectare land. Using full package of practices for cultivation, crop yield improved remarkably from 30–35%. mushroom cultivation was conducted for farmers in the adopted village of Lakahni, Bageshwar. The training covered various aspects of mushroom cultivation, including substrate preparation, spawning, and disease and pest management, helping farmers diversify their agricultural practices. provided to SC farmers in Bageshwar and Nainital districts. These polyhouses are intended to support year- round cultivation of vegetable crops. Agriculture Input Distribution: Several inputs were distributed to SC farmers, including polytunnels, seeds of improved varieties (both cereals and vegetables), toolkits, solar dryers, and bee boxes. Additionally, live demonstrations were conducted on honeybee keeping and the use of power-operated knapsack sprayers during the Kisan Mela. Training Program on Skill Development: A 10-day hands-on training programme was organized to develop skills in youth from adopted villages. This training aimed to enable them to repair and maintain machinery and equipment distributed in their villages. The training covered various aspects, such as measurement, metal cutting, welding, and machinery repair, creating self- employment opportunities for the trainees. Training Program on Oyster Mushroom Cultivation: A two-day training program on oyster RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 189 Drip irrigation installation VL Sweet Corn Hybrid 2 SUCCESS STORY Enhanced Income Through Protected Vegetable and Mushroom Production The challenge Mr. Madan Mohan is a young farmer of village Uderkhani of district Bageshwar. His primary occupation is agriculture; however, previously he was also engaged in copper smithy. He is having around 12 nali land, out of which only 03 nali is irrigated. He has been growing various crops for their family need. But enhancement of income has always been a challenge. The solution ICAR-Vivekananda Parvatiya Krishi Anusandhan Sansthan (VPKAS), Almora through its KVK, Kafligair, Bageshwar started working in this village under Schedule Cast Sub Plan (SCSP) scheme during 2020–21. In a farmers meeting of this programme Mr. Madan Mohan showed interest for vegetable production in polyhouse and mushroom production. But he was not having any experience or skill of this venture. Moreover, his economical condition also not allows investing for these enterprises. Therefore, through extending the benefits of SCSP project, one VL Portable Polyhouse was constructed in his field as well as 5 q pasteurized compost was also provided to him during 2022. Training as well as advice for both the enterprises was also provided to him by KVK (ICAR-VPKAS), Kafligair, Bageshwar. The application Mr.