 eInput parameters for Niger stalk and Safflower stalk are taken the same as Sunflower stalk. fInput parameters for Arecanut fond are taken the same as Coconut fond. gInput parameters for Linseed stalk is taken the same as Sesamum stalk. (a) Atoms of the following elements are present in the feed stream (fuel and gasifying agent): C, H, O, N, S, Cl, Ar, Si, Ca, Al, Fe, Na, K, Mg, P, and Ti; (b) A two-phase mixing of gas and solid phases makes up a multi-phase formulation; (c) Graphitic carbon is a representation of the portion of non- converted solid carbon (char); (d) In a perfectly mixed reactor, the process proceeds in steady-state conditions with constant pressure and tem- perature; (e) To attain the equilibrium state, the gasification reaction rates are high enough, and the residence duration must be long enough. For this study, Rodrigues’s model for co-gasification was mod- ified for single agricultural residue feedstock gasification, and desired results were obtained. The proximate and ultimate anal- yses data of all the 43 crop residues have been collected to determine the syngas yield from individual crop residues. These data are then fitted one at a time into the model under stan- dard gasification parameters (viz., equivalence ratio = 0.45, bed temperature = 800 ◦C, Steam-to-biomass ratio = 0.6) (Shirke et al., 2018). The syngas potential has been estimated using Eqs. (13)–(16). SGP(m, n) = SR(m, n) × SGY(m) (13) SGPstate(n) = 43 ∑ m=1 SR(m, n) (14) SGPnational(m) = 36 ∑ n=1 SRstate(m, n) (15) SGPIndia= 36 ∑ n=1 SRstate(n) = 43 ∑ m=1 SRnational(m) (16) Where, SGP (m,n) is the syngas production potential for m crop residue in nth state/UT, SGPstate (n) is the state/UT level syn- gas production potential for 43 crop residues in nth state/UT, SGPnational is the national syngas production potential of m crop residue, SGPIndia is the total syngas production potential of India, from 43 crop residues generated in 36 regions (states/UT’s). The output syngas yield from the model is in Nm3 per kg of feedstock. For better uniformity and comparison between the pre-estimated crop residue data, syngas production potential is calculated in MT (million tonnes) considering the density of syn- gas as 0.95 kg/m3 (Mustafa et al., 2017). Moreover, the model also generated the HHV (in MJ/kg) for each crop residue syngas, using which the syngas energy potential for each crop residue and thereby for each state/UT are estimated.