 Published work, ifapplicable, such as: - books/monographs - professional papers/articles - popular articles - book reviews - professional communication to journals/magazines - professional abstracts - technkal reports 8. Papers (to be) presented at professional meetings 9. Participation in professional meetings 10. Relationship with his professional colleagues: (a) Guidance received (b) Guidance given (c) Participation in co-operative research programmes Past sn ,_ Proposed to do next year 11. Please furnish the most salient features of the work done in each of the top 3 priority areas as marked in question number (5) in Part I. This should include the points: (A) description of project(s)/assignment(s); (8) objectives of the stated project(s) /assignment(s); (C) any major progress, accomplishments, utiliza1ion, etc. for the work done. (Be sure that this is not a detailed description of various projects/activities you may have undertaken during the past five years, it should rather be a summary statement of the most significant aspects of your overall professional performance (with supporting evidence). Priority Area I: Priority Area 2: Priority Atea 3: 12. Please append a precise resume of the work done during the period ending ........ with full supporting evidence, if any. ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES " 13. If some or all of your professional work remained incomplete or fell below your expectations, please furnish reasons for that, and suggest improvement, if any. 14. Do you wish to have an opportunity for presenting before the Assessment Committee personally the details of your work? Date .. Signature .. Name (In Block letters) Designation FOR THE USE OF THE REVIEWER(S) ONLY I. Is the information provided by the Reviewee is correct to the best of your knowledge? 2. Do you generally agree with the assessment and the projections provided by the Reviewee? Please give your critical appraisal. Date .. Signature .. Name (In Block letters) Designation. 3. Recommendation of the Director( in case of employees of the Institutes)/ Director-General, ICAR, or Dy Director-General, !CAR (in case of em- ployees of the headquarters and/or centrally administered programmes). Date .. Signature .. Name .. (In Block letters) Designation .. ICAR HANDBOOK OF TECHNICAL SERVICES APPENDIX IV Model Qualifications for All Functional Groups and for Three Categories or Technical St-rvices or the ICAR Functional All functional groups as id<:mified under the fochnical Service Rules Category I Matriculate with at least one year certificate from a recognize<l institution in the relevant field ••Jn the case or Drivers following qualifications have t>een prescribed, (i) Matriculation pa,;.