 iv) The survey region was dominated by male farmers, thereby results are biased towards the opinion of only male farmers. The behavioural intentions of female farmers also need to be captured to get a comprehensive picture. The future scope lies in analysing the behaviour of both male and female farmers over a longer period, which will help in determining the kind of factors leading to a change in the behaviour of farmers over time. Additionally, research should be conducted across various regions of India, particularly in the Northern, North-Eastern, Eastern, and Southern regions. This approach will provide a comprehensive understanding of the factors inﬂuencing farmers' motivation to adopt SAPs. Such comprehensive insights will facilitate the formulation of policies aimed at enhancing the agricultural situation and improving the welfare of farmers across the entire Indian subcontinent. 4. Conclusion and policy implications The primary objective of this study is to explore the inﬂuence of attitude and perception and institutional factors on the decision-making process of farming communities regarding the adoption of sustainable agriculture practices (SAPs). Attitude, normative issues, and perceived control showed statistically signiﬁcant and positive relationships with behavioural factors, which further have a positive inﬂuence on the adoption of SAPs. The results indicate that perceived usefulness, easiness, and compatibility are key motivating factors driving farmers to imple- ment SAPs. It is essential to inculcate these factors among farmers to D. Swami, D. Parthasarathy Farming System 2 (2024) 100100 10 enhance their adoption of SAPs. However, current institutional policies and programs are insufﬁcient to encourage voluntary uptake of sustain- able practices within the farming community. Therefore, suitable policy recommendations are suggested to enhance existing programs and pol- icies: i) Behavioural factors are highly inﬂuential factors in driving farmers towards sustainable agriculture practices. Thereby, policies need to be directed towards conducting more workshops and programs in rural areas focusing on increasing the awareness of farmers towards the use- fulness and easiness of sustainable practices. Additionally, these pro- grams should also guide farmers about the resources and skills needed for following SAPs. Practical application i.e., showing the demonstration of such practices on the ground will further induce a sense of trust and belief in these practices in the farming community. ii) Economic and ﬁnancial resources should be allocated cautiously, as the provision of credit, soft loans, and subsidies was found to have a negative association with the adoption of SAPs. Therefore, careful consideration should be given to the disbursement of such resources to ensure they effectively support the adoption of sustainable practices.