 Implementing water pricing policies that reflect the true cost of water use, including the cost of treatment, distribution, and environmental impacts. This can encourage solar developers to use water more efficiently and promote sustainable water management practices. VI. Promoting and incentivizing use of robotic cleaning systems for solar panels that can replace water usage and cut-short labor cost. This approach can support economic growth and social development in the solar industry. By taking a comprehensive and inte­ grated approach to resource management, it is possible to achieve a more sustainable and equitable future for all stakeholders involved in the solar, agriculture, and water nexus. Implementing rigorous policies of this nature can effectively prevent land encroachment in other countries too [85–87]. By enacting effective water management policies and offering incentives for the deployment of cleaning robots, with proactive steps can have control over the water resources, thus mitigating potential stress and scarcity issues [10,88–90]. These policies can help to balance the needs of different stakeholders and promote the sustainable use of natural resources, while also supporting economic and social development goals. 6. Conclusion This study introduces a novel Solar Panel Index (SPI), using multiple spectral bands to accurately identify solar panels, and attains an 89 % accuracy in Land Use and Land Cover (LULC) classification. This index has aided in creating a detailed map showing the locations and capacities of solar farms nationwide, valuable for energy distribution planning. Our findings show that over 40 % of solar power plants are built on lands previously used for agriculture. We also analyzed water availability around these areas, emphasizing the crucial relationship between solar installations, agriculture, and water—referred to as the solar-agriculture-water (SAW) nexus—in sustainable development. Field visits and expert consultations enriched our understanding of the operation of solar power plants and their impact on natural resources and provided insights into the intricate relation between solar energy, land use, and water man­ agement. We developed a high-resolution (100 m) Land Suitability Map (LSM) for India, focusing on the SAW nexus, which is a potential tool for informed land-use planning, keeping in mind the intertwining of solar energy, agriculture, and water. Rajasthan emerged as an optimal region for solar installations from our analysis. This research proposes policy guidelines to aid the sustainable development of the solar energy sector while addressing SAW nexus-related challenges. Implementing the insights and suggestions from this study can help balance resource demands effectively and foster the sustainable growth of the solar sector. In conclusion, considering the SAW nexus in land and solar plant planning is vital.