 Patel (1991g) 77 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 161 Control of white fly in cotton by kerosene and detergent Mixture of kerosene oil and detergent powder (Nirma) is sprayed on the crop for minimizing the white fly infestation. This result in 50% control of white fly (Rajkot, Gujarat). Khanpara (1991) 162 Control of bollworm in cotton by extract of mahua and tamarind Certain pests like spotted bollworm and pink bollworm attack the cotton plant frequently. In order to control the infestation, a 500 ml stock solution is made with an equal amount of mahua (Madhuca indica) and tamarind (Tamarindus indica) bark. This solution is filled into a pump (with a capacity of 15 litre) and sprayed on the infested crop. If the attack is severe then the same solution is sprayed once again after a week. If used more than twice then there are chances of the roots getting burnt. This practice has been used for over 30 years. However, this needs to be used judiciously (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Kodarvi (1999) 163 Control of white fly in cotton by extracts of Gandhati leaves Three kg. of gandhati leaves are boiled in 20 litres of water for 3–4 hours or till the decoction has reduced to 5 litres. About 75–80 ml. filtrate is poured in to 15 litres water.When sprayed on the cotton crop it helps to control white fly. The decoction acts as an anti-feedant (Northern Gujarat). Patel (2001e) 164 Control of insect pest of cotton crop by decoction of agave Certain larvae attack the cotton during monsoon when crop is around 30 to 40 days old. To prevent it, local farmers use a decoction of a plant locally known as Ketaki (Agave americana). The leaves are crushed, boiled in water and the decoction is filtered. Approximately 200 ml filtrate is added in 15 litres water and sprayed over the crop. About five pumps of spray are needed for one bigha (0.16 ha) of land each time (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Vaghoshi (1994) 165 Lemon juice for aphid control in cotton Aphid is locally called Molo in Surendranagar, Gujarat. Farmers say that it is generally not found during the monsoon. Aphids appear on four month old cotton crop and attach themselves normally to the undersides of the leaves of the plant and suck the sap. A black sticky substance is also found on the aphid infested leaves and this particular condition is known as galo (meaning sweet). Generally, yellow and green aphids are seen in cotton. If unattended, the condition persists till the end of the cotton season. It is believed that if an indigenous variety of cotton Dholakia (1994) 78 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference is grown as rainfed crop, aphid infestation does not accur. Juice of lemon is used to control aphids. Approximately 100 to 200 ml of lemon juice is mixed with 15 litres of water and sprayed it over the crop. The treatment is repeated after intervals of a week.