 yy ICRAF and the National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management (MANAGE) in collaboration with Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR); ICAR- Central Agroforestry Research Institute, Jhansi; Forest Collage & Research Institute, Mettupalayam, TNAU, Tamil Nadu organized an International Training Program on “Agroforestry” under FTF ITT Program from 10 -24 October 2019 for middle level policy makers and agricultural professionals from five Asian and five African countries. The 26 participants were from Sri Lanka (5), Bangladesh (2), Botswana (1), Cambodia (1), Kenya (1), Malawi (2), Nepal (7), Myanmar (4), Tanzania (1) and Uganda (2). yy During December 2019, ICRAF in collaboration with Ministry of Agriculture of Vietnam organized an Agroforestry Policy dialog for Viet Nam at Hanoi where scientist from ICAR- CAFRI participated and shared the Indian expertise on agroforestry technologies and agroforestry policy. yy ICRAF in collaboration with CAZRI implementing a pilot on agrivoltaic-agroforestry Discussion on the Tree Genomic Research Initiative under ICAR- ICRAF Collaborative Work Plan, held at NASC Complex, Pusa on 25th September 2019. Participants from ten countries in Africa and Asia of the International training, “Agroforestry: Policy, Practice and Impact” organized by ICRAF-ICAR-FCRI during 10-24 October 2019 ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 73 system in Odisha where CAZRI scientists are taking the lead. Capacity building As part of capacity building activities under ICAR- ICRAF Work Plan following initiatives were taken in collaboration with ICAR institutes yy Five scientists represented ICAR at the 4th World Congress on Agroforestry during 18-24 May 2019 held at Montpellier, France. yy One scientist represented ICAR at the Regional Agroforestry Conference held at Kathmandu, July 2019. yy One scientist from CAFRI represented ICAR at the High-Level Consultation on “Need, Role, and Potential of Agroforestry Policy” held in Hanoi, Vietnam during 18-19 December 2019. yy Odisha State Government officials attended 3 Study tours at ICAR-CAFRI yy CAFRI is part of the Monitoring & Evaluation team of the Govt. of Odisha for implementation of Odisha agroforestry project. Return on investment information Benefits through agroforestry are enormous but challenging to calculate a financial value for each one. The most robust benefit is the production of more than 70% timber required by the country through agroforestry which is valued at more than Rs. 14,000 crores annually. This otherwise, would have been imported. ICAR-ICRAF’s joint work has significantly contributed towards this. Agroforestry has contributed to the increased green cover of India (ISFR, 2017) which in turn provides environmental benefits (addition of oxygen and removal of carbon from the atmosphere). Both these actions are priceless and hard to put a value in Rupees.