 It is assisted by the Standing Finance Committee, Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Dr Mangala Rai, [DG (ICAR), second from right] is attending maiden Press Conference after becoming DG, ICAR l The Screening Committee was constituted for the first time for finalization of the Annual Recruitment Plan of the ICAR system. l The ICAR has filled up 96 posts of the Gazetted Officers out of 154, and 936 posts of non-gazetted officials out of 746. l The Mehta Committee Recommen- dations were sent to all Head, Subject Matter Divisions to process them for operationalization/implementation in the ICAR with the approval of the Competent Authority. l The National Institute of Financial Management revised the report and ICAR officials would visit the NIFM for updating/making further corrections of the Report. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 206 Publications Committee. In the scientific matters, the Director-General is assisted by 8 Deputy Director-General, one each for (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticulture, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Agricultural Engineering, (v) Animal Sciences, (vi) Fisheries, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension. The DDGs are responsible for the Institutes, National Research Centres and Project Directorates in their respective fields. The members of Standing Finance Committee are DG (ICAR), Secretary (Agriculture), Scientists, Senior Officers, Farmers, and Members of Parliament (Appendix 3). The senior officers posted at the ICAR (headquarters) are listed in Appendix 4 of the ICAR. The ICAR receives funds from the Government of India and from the proceeds of the Agricultural Produce Cess. The ICAR develops technologies and disseminates knowledge to farming community not only for increasing yields of crops and maintaining natural resources but also for elevating community’s economic status. The Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture is working independently with the approval of the competent authority and brings out 1 title on every third day. The Research set up of the ICAR includes 47 Central Institutes (Appendix 5), 5 National Bureaux (Appendix 6), 12 Project Directorates (Appendix 7), 33 National Research Centres (Appendix 8), and 82 All-India Co-ordinated Research Projects (Appendix 9). Besides ICAR finances research scheme; and 12 externally-aided projects are also in operation through the United States-India Fund. The ICAR promotes research, education and extension education in 40 state agricultural universities, 5 deemed-to-be-Universities and 1 Central Agricultural University for the North-Eastern Hills Region by giving financial assistance in different forms (Appendix 10). For effective communication of research findings among farmers, the ICAR maintains an effective network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras, and Trainers’ Training Centres along with Zonal Co-ordinating Units.