 Combination of Azotobacter and Azospirillum in 1:1 ratio may be applied if needed by the soil conditions. Blue green algae and Azolla can be used for lowland rice to save chemical N fertilizer upto 40 kg/ha. Phosphate solubilizers are useful in increasing the availability of native P. Vesicular arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi are mobilizers of native P through a network of mycelia and can be used in upland Integration of green manuring and rock phosphate and/or single super phosphate (SSP) to reduce the use of diammonium phosphate (DAP) in paddy crop In acidic soils, rock phosphate may be used as phosphorous (P) source and the full dose for the rice crop may be applied to the green manure crop before sowing. In mild acidic soil, the P dose for rice crop may be met from SSP or a combination of rock phosphate and SSP applied to the green manure crop. Green manure incorporation in soil helps in improved P availability in soil. Also, enough time available during the growing and incorporation of green manure helps in converting insoluble and citric acid soluble P to water soluble form. This procedure is hastened with the acidity of soil Sesbania green manure crop before the transplanted rice Vermicompost unit Paddy crop grown using green manure and vermicompost Rhizobium inoculation in groundnut improved nodulation and N fixation soil conditions for crops having extensive root proliferation. City compost: About 62 Mt of municipal solid wastes are generated annually. For the dual purpose of safe disposal of these Indian Farming 37 February 2023 wastes and the role of these wastes in nutrient addition, city composts are produced by state governments. The compost provides major nutrients like nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, manganese, calcium, magnesium and micronutrients like boron, zinc, molybdenum, iron, etc. Government provides assistance of `1500/tonne on sale of city compost which can be used as organic fertilizer by farmers. Government of India provided subsidy on city compost in the year 2016–17 at `0.55 thousand crores. It steadily increased to `72.98 thousand crores in the year 2020–21. Cow dung slurry: Biogas slurry is a by-product of anaerobic digestion that contains easily- available nutrients, e.g. considerable amounts of both macro (N, P, K) and micronutrients, which might be a composting amendment to adjust nutrient element ratio and foster the activity of microbial communities. The digested biogas slurry is rich in macro and micro nutrients that provide essential plant nutrients for a longer period. Biogas slurry may be considered as a good quality organic fertilizer for sustainable agriculture. Efficient fertilizer management to reduce use Site specific nutrient management by adopting soil test based fertilizer recommendation and leaf colour chart can avoid overuse of fertilizers. Similarly, fertilizer placement is useful in reducing fertilizer dose in row crops.