1 %) were higher than adoption of climate related adaptation strategies such as climate tolerant varieties (10.1 %) and late planting (7.4 %). Identifying farmer motivation beyond profit maximization, such as placing more value on production stability through strategies that reduce yield fluc­ tuations or on deliberate long-term climate considerations, may allow for policy to reflect decision-making motivations with behavioral in­ terventions that improve farm resilience and food security. Third, the social norms decision rule explained the adoption of enhanced irrigation better than utility maximization and self-satisficing decision rules, with model performance improving with an increase with farm size from marginal to medium-sized landholders. There is evidence in the literature on the role of social networks and interaction with friends and neighbors in influencing the adoption of certain agricultural strategies in Bihar (Mittal and Mehar, 2013; Munshi, 2004). For instance, Mittal and Mehar (2013) find an overwhelming 90 % of sampled agriculturalists in the Indo-Gangetic region rely on information provided by neighboring farmers, with 41 % of respondents considering peer-to-peer information diffusion as the most critical factor in tech­ nology adoption. Bhatta et al. (2017) found farmers experiment with innovative solutions often supported and informed by social networks in Bihar (e.g., system rice intensification) and elsewhere (e.g., floating agriculture in Bangladesh; community-based weather stations in Udai­ pur). This insight supports arguments that the adoption of irrigation-based technologies may often be guided by social mimicry and peer to peer information transfer influenced by direct observation and word of mouth from trusted neighbors and friends (Hunecke et al., 2017). In considering the promotion of adopting irrigation technologies, a key insight from our results for policy, which is supported by a broad literature on social norms (Nyborg et al., 2016; Byerly et al., 2018), is that behavioral interventions that target social norms, as well as focus on key influencers in a network and, community-level incentives, may be more effective than policy interventions tied to promoting economic efficiency for individual farmers alone. Practitioners can partner with local community organizations or key members of irrigation networks to promote enhanced irrigation techniques through peer-to-peer networks. Last, and to summarize, the results of this study can help improve a transition of agricultural policies towards “behavioral incentives and nudges” (Streletskaya et al., 2020). While policies and incentives, such as subsidies, credit sources, and extension services, nudge farmers to maximize their crop productivity, there is a scope for policies to focus on nudges that direct towards social norms, culture, and motivations of farmers, which may in some cases be more appropriate and effective (Byerly et al., 2018). 6.