Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni Solan 1991 24 Arka Sanjeevani Solanum viarum Dunal Syn. S. khasianum Clarke. (Khasi Kateri) Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bangalore 1989 25 Arka Mahima Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bangalore 1992 26 Jawahar Asgand‐20 Withania somnifera Dunal (Aswagandha AICRP on M&AP, Mandsaur 1989 27 Jawahar Asgand‐134 AICRP on M&AP, Mandsaur 458 001 1998 Aromatic Plants 1 NLG‐84 Cymbopogon flexuosus Nees ex. Steud Wats. (Lemon Grass) AICRP on M&AP,ND University of Agriculture and Technology, Faizabad 1994 2 Rosha Grass‐ 49 C. martinii Stapf.Var. motia (Palmarosa) AICRP On M&AP,CCS Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar 1989 3 CI‐80‐68 AICRP on M&AP, Indore 452 001 ‐ 4 Arka Surabhi Jasminum grandiflorum L. (Jasmine) Indian Institute of Horticulture, Bangalore 1993 5 Punjab Spearmint‐1 Mentha spicata L. (Spearmint) AICRP on M&AP,Y.S.Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni Solan 1991 6 Dalhousi Clone Valeriana jatamansi DC. (Mushakbala) AICRP on M&AP,Y.S.Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni Solan 1994 7 Hyb‐8 Vetiveria zizanioides (L) Nash. (Vetiver) NBPGR, New Delhi ‐ www.icar.org.in 50 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture Research Achievements: • Location specific varieties for 22 medicinal and aromatic plants with their package and practices have been developed. • Package and practices and four varieties of Isabgol for different zones have been developed. • Forecasting system for downy mildew of Isabgol has been developed (Crop Protection). • In safed musli, it was established that harvesting should be done according to the usage of the fleshy root. And for drug purposes, early harvesting should be practised to avoid loss in active principle. Whereas, fleshy roots meant for propagation should be harvested later to avoid loss due to drying (Crop Production). • In safed musli (Chlorophytum borivilianum), a wide spectrum of variability was observed in terms of fasciculated root whose multiplication ratio was 1:14. • Morphological and biochemical characterization have been done in two species of Safed musli viz. Chlorophytum borivilianum, and Chlorophytum tuberosum. Chlorophytum borivilianum contain higher amount of saponin (4%) and sapogenin (0.18%) as compared to Chlorophytum tuberosum (1.6% and 0.05%, respectively). • In Chlorophytum borivilianum, in a study it has been established that elimination of inflorescence increased the number of fleshy root and as a result 41% increase in yield has been recorded compared to non‐topped plants. • In Chlorophytum borivilianum, chemical finger printing has been done to characterize qualitative comparison of the saponin profiles by HPTLC. It was found that two saponin fractions were prominent in two species of Chlorophytum (Quality Improvement). • Cultivation of Kalmegh (Andrographis paniculata) has been successfully grown as rainfed crop in medium black soil of Indore region. (Location specific work).