 In case such a Policy and MACPS referred to above is adopted, vacancies in the event of transfer/retirement/ death/resignation of the KVK personnel, carrying whatever personal Grade Pay or Post, acquired through promotion or through MACPS, shall be filled up only in the initial Grade approved under KVK scheme. ●The scorecard in respect of Scientist as provided in KVK Management Guidelines should be followed in implementing CAS/MACPS, whichever is applicable to the Host Organization. Further, there should be a separate score card for assessing the performance of Scientific Staff in KVK for career advancement similar to the ASRB. The scorecard (Appendix-VII) in respect of scientists of KVK is to be followed in implementing CAS/MACP whichever is applicable to the host organization. 6.2.6 Transfers: KVK staff should not be transferred for a period of five years and concurrence of ICAR is to be obtained before making any transfers. 6.2.7 Allowances and Service Policies ●Payment of retirement benefits in the form of gratuity and Contributory Provident Fund (CPF) should be admissible. ●Leave encashment and medical allowance to KVK staff need to be given as per provisions of the host organization as these are covered under the Head, ‘Pay and Allowances’. ●The superannuation age of KVK staff shall be as per the rules of the host organization. ●The benefit of study leave may be extended to the employees of a KVK under organizations other than NGOs as per rules of the host organization. In the case of staff of KVKs under NGOs, grant of leave, if no leave rules are available in the organization, may be regulated as per Central Civil Services (CCS) (leave) rules of 1972, subject to the condition that while granting study leave the criteria like only one scientist to be considered at a time, minimum of 87 Administrative Guidelines 5 years of service in KVK, and bond of serving in KVK for minimum 3 years after completion of study, failing which all expenditure incurred towards his/her pay and allowances during study leave shall be recovered from the scientist. ●Since the main functional duties of the staff of KVKs and staff of ZPDs are at field level, reimbursement of ` 500 and ` 250 per month for mobile bill will be provided to the Chief Scientist-cum-Head and Scientists respectively of KVK irrespective of provision of Host Organizations and ` 500 to the Scientists at ZPDs. Recognition ●The personnel working in KVKs should get proper recognition. Therefore, performance- linked support and incentives are to be provided to KVKs. ●Staff working in the remote KVKs should be encouraged through special incentives in the form of capacity development. Disciplines of Scientists: Each KVK will have ten Scientists of different disciplines.