 Software for undertaking psychological tests of farmers to know their Cumulative Stress Index (CSI) and Psychological Resources Index (PRI) was developed and is being tested. Wheat crop under ambient and elevated CO2 conditions Open top chambers at NRRI, Cuttack SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 145 bacteria and as regard to the moisture level, no significant difference was observed among the flooded and stressed moisture condition. Application of increased doses of N or P also increased the EPS population. Higher quantity of root exudates, which are short chain aliphatic acids (mainly malic acid and tartaric acid) are observed under eCO2 conditions that acts as nutrient medium for the EPS producing bacteria. Nitrogen and phosphorus use efficiency (NUE and PUE) increased under eCO2 conditions. Under eCO2 an increase in water productivity was observed. Elevated CO2 inside OTCs helped the plant to cope up the adverse effects of water deficit stress by increasing the relative water content, decreasing the electrolyte leakage and leaf water potential which is more pronounced water deficit stress conditions. Interaction of eCO2 and N can be exploited in modulating the EPS producing bacterial population, thereby affecting the total EPS/soil carbohydrate, which will alleviate soil moisture deficit stress. ❑ Direct Recruitment/Lateral Entry The ASRB recommended 15 applicants on lateral entry basis, comprising eight Directors, two Project Coordinators and five Heads of Divisions, during the period. Recruitment process of the remaining posts which were advertised vide Advt. No. 3/2016, 4/2016, 5/2016, 1/2017 and 2/2017 was deferred due to proposed revision of score card for direct recruitment. Agricultural Research Service Examination 2015 Analysis of data showed that in Agricultural Chemicals discipline, number of vacancies and number of candidate clearing the Main Examination were almost equal, while in Agricultural Statistics and Informatics, and Agricultural Structure and Environment Management, numbers of candidates qualified were lesser than the number of earmarked vacancies. Organization-wise contribution in ARS: Out of 79 recommended candidates, 35 were from four Deemed-to-be-Universities (IARI, New Delhi; CIFE, Mumbai; IVRI, Izatnagar; and NDRI, Karnal), 37 from 14 State Agricultural Universities, 4 from BHU, Varanasi and 3 from General Universities. State-wise distribution: Out of 79 successful candidates, 53 came from 7 states (Rajasthan, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu) and the remaining 26 from 13 states. Gender-wise distribution: Out of 79 candidates 34% were women candidates, reflecting a positive trend, interest and participation of women candidates in agricultural sciences.