) can produce toxins, such as aflatoxin and ochratoxin, that can pose a health risk to humans and animals. In addition, the presence of mould and fungi can cause discoloration and off-odours in the grains, further reducing their quality and making them unsuitable for consumption. Insects infesting millets in storage In general, stored products of agricultural and animal origin are attacked by more than 600 species of coleopterans, 70 species of lepidopterans and about 355 species of mites. They are causing both quantitative and qualitative losses. Unlike other crops, the insects damaging the stored grains, many times get access from the field and get established at the storage site. Additionally, they also come due to cross infestation by infested lot/ grains and added with the processing and handling. The detailed list of insects infesting stored products are readily available. The important insects infesting stored millets are given in Table 1. Management options Preventive measures • Preventive measure of any insect infestation avoids the major proportion of the insect management. Harvesting at proper time, is the very basic step in insect management. Harvesting at the right time helps minimize grain damage during handling while preserving the nutritional value of the grains, thereby reducing the risk of insect infestation. • Drying of the grains to a moisture range of 10 to 12% based on grain type, avoid majority of the damage. Drying can be done under sunlight or using any developed dryers. Sometimes the initial infestation observed in field can be managed by exposing the grains in sunlight for shorter period. • Proper cleaning and scientific drying of the grains after harvesting should be done, simultaneously adjust the harvesting equipment for minimum kernel or seed damage and maximum cleaning. • Proper sanitation of the storage Insect infestation and damage caused by insects in minor millets (a&b – Rice moth; c&d – Lesser grain borer; e&f – Red flour beetle). (a) (c) (e) (b) (d) (f) Indian Farming 32 November 2023 structure. Avoid spillage during handling of grains. Clean the grains completely, avoid the foreign matter and debris to reside over the grains during handling. If grading is done prior to storage, it will be useful. • Disinfestation of bulk and bag storage structures using insecticides is also important practice to be done prior to storage and a layer of insecticide spray can be suggested immediately after storage. Since, dichlorvos and malathion are not available for using in warehouses, deltamethrin is the only available options for Table 1. Insects infesting stored millets Name of the insect Photo Life cycle Type of damage Grain weevils - Sitophilus spp. (Rice weevil – Sitophilus oryzae; Mazie weevil – Sitophilus zeamais) Adults can live for several months, females laying 300 – 400 eggs loosely throughout the grain. Life cycle completed in 3 weeks at 30 – 33°C, 17 weeks at 20°C, reproduction stops below 17.5°C.