 Policy issues • A single window system for potato export should be developed, where stakeholder can get all information related to potato. Constitution of Potato Export Promotion Council may solve the problem. • Export incentives should be designed in consultation with the established potato exporters. • Potato varieties with export value, even if not of Indian origin and available in public domain, may be registered and allowed in seed chain. • Seed producing areas in Punjab, western Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan should be given special/ industrial status for export purpose. National certification system for seed potato produced using tissue culture raised plants/minitubers as basic material should be formalized immediately. Infrastructure • There is need to establish a link between producers, cold store owners, processing industry, exporters and departments of state/central governments to promote export of potato from India. For this purpose a platform like “PotatoNet” may be created for the benefit of potato farmers and other stakeholders. • In India, most of potato exports take place from western coast. However, due to difficulty in getting shipping space from this coast, we should exploit the potential of east coast which is highly convenient for exporting potatoes to Sri Lanka and South East Asian countries like Malaysia, Vietnam, Thailand, Singapore etc. • Warehousing/cold storage facilities should be established on important exporting ports, so that potatoes can be transported after harvest from designated potato producing areas to port for storage and further shipping as per requirement of importing countries. • Use of modern handling, grading, packaging line for high grade export quality potato should be encouraged giving policy support (may be from NHB). • Storage boxes or imported modern racks are needed for long distance transport from states like Punjab (subsidy from NHB). • Linkage in domestic inter-state markets needs to be strengthened to enhance domestic consumption. Sanitary and phytosanitary issue • Phyto-sanitary certification process should be revamped to include requirements of more countries and to make the process quicker and effective. • Area free from quarantine diseases (particularly brown November–December 2019 71 E FFECTS of climate change in the agriculture sector are distributed unevenly across the globe. This sector is contributing to climate change not only by anthropogenic emissions of greenhouse gases but also by conversion of non-agricultural land mainly forests into agricultural land. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), Working Group III report, agriculture, forestry, and land-use changes contributed to 25% of global annual emissions. Potato is a valuable food commodity from the nutritional and economic perspective that feeds more than a billion people worldwide. The leading continents in potato production are Asia (42.5%) and Europe (38.