 Volatile organic compounds for safe management of potato, onion and tomato in storage: The database for the key volatile organic compounds (VOCs) generated by onion infected with Erwinia carotovora, Aspergillus flavus, and Aspergillus niger, during storage at different storage conditions (4°C, 8°C, 15°C, and RT) was generated. VOCs change with the storage conditions and type of microbial infection and commodity. The number of VOCs emanating from bacterial and fungal infections ranged from 34– 178 and number of VOCs emanating during storage diminished as the storage temperature decreased, irrespective of infection, indicating slowing down of metabolic activities in both the substrate and microbes. The cluster heat map of the group average of the data matrix classified and visualized the dominant VOCs among control and infected samples. Multivariate data analysis of the VOCs suggested that Ortho-PLS-DA was better in classifying different VOCs emanated from the commodity at different storage conditions, infected with different microorganisms. An embedded software on ARM platform was developed and successfully tested data acquisition from sensors and accordingly Derby as Embedded low-footprint RDBMS was selected for data storage. The interface of the ARM board with the data acquisition board with sensor assembly was done successfully; its initial testing was conducted. Microalgal biomass for biodiesel and other industrially important co-products: Process for bio- oil production from microalgal slurry was standardized. Bio-oil yield up to 45% of dry weight was obtained for Chlorella minutissima biomass, which was however, lower for protein- and carbohydrate-rich species. The Cyanobacterium Leptolyngbya sp BTA 477 was also explored successfully for biodiesel production. Along with SCC (sodium copper chlorophyllin), another Purification of PRRSV_rN protein Expression and purification of N-terminal and C-terminal His6-tagged nucleocapsid protein of PRRSV. pET30a(+)_N plasmid was grown and protein were extracted after induction (with 0.1 mM of IPTG at 25°C). Induced cells were lysed and N protein was purified through His60 Ni Gravity Columns (TakaraBio, Cat. 635657) followed by manufacturer’s protocol. Elution was carried out by collecting 1 ml fraction (up to 10 fraction collected). Same volume of protein samples were analysed into SDS-PAGE (15%) and stained with Coomassie Brilliant Blue. Desired protein is showing band of 22 kDa when compared with the colour protein marker. Microinjection of vector against PTGES in zygotes. Zygotes were microinjected with PX-458 vector containing sgRNA against PTGES. Embryos after 12–24 h of in vitro culture were graded as useful when developed to 2-cell stage.