 Microgreens have gained significant global attention in the past decade, often confused with sprouts but distinguished by their tender and young 5-7 cm aromatic herbs, and vegetables. They are harvested just days or weeks after germination when cotyledons are fully open and the first true leaves begin to emerge. Given the challenging circumstances where access to fresh food, particularly green leafy vegetables, in the higher regions of Sikkim and Himalayan range is limited, incorporating microgreens into one’s diet plan gradually can be a solution for filling up the invisible pit in the daily nutritional bowl. Microgreens inclusion into the daily diet holds the potential of diversifying and enhancing the nutrient content in daily meals, crucial for maintaining adequate health. Microgreen Farming in High-Altitude Areas In response to high-altitude of the region, a small- scale microgreens cultivation set up was established at the Department of Horticulture, Sikkim University, Gangtok. Every effort was made to adopt organic practices, encompassing disease control, nutritional application, growing media, and pest control. This initiative was designed with careful consideration of local conditions and resource availability with an aim to investigate the feasibility and outcomes of growing microgreens in a designed set-up and package of practices. Standard Growing Set-up Commercial growers worldwide adopt various types of growing systems. While such systems can be crafted using locally sourced bamboo or purchased from nearby stores, Tshering Lhamu Sherpa1, Kime Tare1, Koushik Baruah1 and Kunal Koushik2 Technology in this case, a practical and efficient multilayer vertical growing system was implemented for its convenience in movement and dismantling. Selection of Seeds Microgreens can be cultivated using any edible seeds; however, different crops have distinct growth requirements. Through numerous trials and tested experiments, it has been observed that certain vegetables thrive exceptionally well in this region. Notable performers include Radish varieties such as China pink rose, Purple Radish Sango, Mustard, Bokchoy, Amaranthus red, Pea, and locally available seeds of Raya saag (Brassica juncea). A noteworthy observation is that almost all vegetables belonging to the Brassicaceae family exhibit robust germination and performance compared to other plant families. Climate Within an average range of temperature of 22-30ºC and average humidity of 60-80%, and to ensure ideal growth conditions for microgreens, characterized by active light requirement, two photosynthetically active tube lights (22 Watt lights providing 4400 lux) were installed. These lights mimicking natural sunlight, were switched on once the seeds had developed into 3-4 inch plantlets and remained illuminated until the day of harvest. This practice aimed to comprehensively address the sunlight requirements essential for the healthy development of microgreens.