 Name Designation Address 

 of 20 FOR OFFICIAL USE ONLY Results-Framework Document 2010-2011 Government of India Ministry of Agriculture Department of Agricultural Research and Education FOR THE PERIOD April 1, 2010 - March 31, 2011  of 20 Department of Agricultural Research & Education Results Framework Document: 2010-2011 Section 1: Vision, Mission and Functions Vision Harnessing science to ensure comprehensive and sustained physical, economic and ecological access to food and livelihood security to all Indians, through generation, assessment, refinement and adoption of appropriate technologies. Mission Sustainability and growth of Indian agriculture by interfacing agricultural research, higher education and front-line extension initiatives complemented with institutional, infrastructural and policy support that will create efficient and effective science- harnessing tool. Objectives 1. Strengthening frontier research for enhancing agricultural production and productivity 2. Improving soil health and water use efficiency, and farm machinery and agricultural processing 3. Conservation of Genetic resources/germplasm and their use 4. Production management and disease diagnostics/management and value addition 5. Enhancing productivity of pulses and oilseeds 6. Production of breeder seed/planting materials 7. Commercialization of technologies developed and promoting public-private partnership 8. New institutions to support agricultural research and higher education for addressing emerging issues 9. Strengthening of higher agricultural education 10. Strengthening Agricultural Universities including modernization of AU farms 11. Strengthening extension activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) 12. Support for NEH region and promoting gender issues Functions 1. To attend to matters relating to all aspects of agricultural research and higher education; including • all matters concerning the national and international collaboration in agricultural research and higher education, • such functions as plant and animal germplasm introduction, exploration and conservation; soil and land use survey and planning; • participation in international conferences, associations and other bodies dealing with agricultural research and education and follow-up decisions etc.; • coordination and determination of scientific, technical and academic standards in institutions for higher education and research in so far as they relate to food and agriculture including animal husbandry, dairying and fisheries; and • Human Resource Development in agriculture and allied disciplines.  of 20 Section 2: Results Framework Document 2010-2011 of DARE: Composite View Target/Criteria Value Sl.No.