 Keep the cow in standing position for 1 hour immediately after milking for proper closing of teat orifice to prevent entry of microbes from the dusty and mud floor. Keep the animals inside the shelter during raining and night hours. Goat and Sheep Locally available feed materials may be effectively used for feeding and the same popularized. Hydroponics fodder may be utilized wherever available. Before the onset of monsoon, based on worm load by dung examination, deworming to be done with appropriate deworming medicine. New animals added to the herd should be quarantined for 25 days to assess incidence of PPR or any other infection. 250-300 g of concentrate feed should be given to the pregnant ewes to avoid stillbirth or weak kids. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 391 Fodder tree seedlings should be cultivated by using the rainfall and green fodder leaves may be fed to the animals. Crop residues, unconventional feeds such as tapioca leaves, onion crop residues, banana leaves and stems etc., may be fed to the animals in case of scarcity of pasture. Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 250-500 g/sheep/goat/ day. Dipping with acaricides should be carried out to get rid of ectoparasites (ticks/fleas) in small ruminants. Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices. Vaccinate the sheep and goat with PPR / anthrax in consultation with local veterinarians. Poultry Chicks may be purchased from authorized hatcheries of Veterinary University or private hatcheries with proper precautionary measures. Desi birds should be vaccinated against Ranikhet Disease (7th day F1 strain (Eye drop), 14th day with IBD vaccine (Eye drops), 28th day Lasota (Eye drop), 56th day RDVK vaccine). Amla/butter milk or lemon juice may be added in good quality drinking water to alleviate stress in birds. To improve the growth rate 1 per cent protein level (soya bean meal) may be added in the feed. Suitable coccidiostat should be added in the feed continuously by consulting the local veterinarian to prevent coccidiosis. 3-5 g of oyster shell/limestone/grit per day/bird shall be given to laying hens to avoid leathery eggs. Shifting, transportation, debeaking and vaccination of birds should be done during night or cool hours of the day. Azolla supplementation may be taken-up @ 50 g/bird/day. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 392 Farmers to utilize the validated EVM practices. Racking/mixing of bedding materials: add groundnut husk to the bedding materials and mix it. Avoid moisturizing the bedding materials. If more moisture is present, add lime powder and mix the bedding materials. Observe biscuit or red colour of dropping to identify coccidiosis disease in poultry. If any death, conduct a post- mortem examination and give medicines accordingly with help of veterinarians. Fisheries Carp culture Replace 10 to 20 % of water with borewell/creak water in freshwater carp culture. Parasite free seed selection. Analysis of water quality parameters at least monthly once.