 During the year, 101 meritorious undergraduate students belonging to below- poverty-line families were awarded the scholarship. HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 132 Promotion of Excellence ICAR National Professor/National Fellow/ Emeritus Professor/Emeritus Scientist: ICAR supports National Professor with the twin objectives of promoting excellence by recognizing outstanding scientists with proven output and outcomes for creating a culture of basic research through their project work in the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and establishing and nurturing a novel school of thought around the recognized person. During the period under report, 4 National Professors, 14 National Fellows were in position. The aim of the Emeritus Scientist (37) and Emeritus Professor (39) programme is to complete the ongoing work for its fruitful conclusion, utilize their talent in teaching specialized courses, student research guidance, developing instructional material/textbooks including e-learning resources for use in National Agricultural Education Programme and distance education. In addition to research work, some Emeritus Scientists were engaged in teaching advanced courses at PG and Doctoral levels, guiding postgraduate students in their research pursuits, publishing books and developing practical and teaching manuals. Salient research achievements Technology for use of paclobutrazol in inducing flowering in mango: Technology has been refined in terms of application schedule, best doses as per the orchard requirement for increasing productivity and without harming the plant health. The effectiveness of different doses (2-10 g a.i. per tree) of PBZ for promoting the flowering and fruiting in mango cv Dashehari was evaluated and was found to be very effective for increasing the mango yield (25 to 60%), besides controlling the biennial bearing habit in mango. Residual influence of paclobutrazol in soil on fruit yield was observed if applied continuously for two consecutive years. The dissipation rate in soil followed first-order kinetics with half-life values ranging between 57.75 to 77.00 days. There was an altered community composition of the rhizospheric microbiome due to PBZ treatment. The cost-effective recommendation of PBZ application is 4.0 g a.i./tree in soil in the first year and a half dose (2 g/tree) in the subsequent year due to its long persistency and needs to be integrated with good management practices. Conducted awareness program and demonstrated the proper use of paclobutrazol at mango grower fields adjacent to the mango belt of Lucknow located at Sitapur, Bharawan kala, and Institute orchard (https://cish.icar. gov.in/awareness.php).