 State‐wise intercropping systems recommended State Crop sequence One year/two year Irrigated/ rainfed Andhra Pradesh Castor‐groundnut One year Irrigated Castor‐sunflower One year Irrigated Castor‐pearlmillet Two year Rainfed Castor‐fingermillet Two year Rainfed Castor ‐ pigeonpea Two year Rainfed Castor ‐ groundnut Two year Rainfed Castor‐sorghum Two year Rainfed Gujarat Pearlmillet‐castor One year Irrigated Sorghum‐castor One year Irrigated Castor‐mungbean One year Irrigated Castor‐groundnut One year Irrigated Castor‐sesame One year Irrigated Castor‐sunflower One year Irrigated Mustard‐castor Two year Irrigated Castor‐pearlmillet‐mungbean Two year Irrigated Castor‐pearlmillet‐chickpea Two year Irrigated Karnataka Castor‐fingermillet Two year Rainfed Castor‐groundnut Two year Rainfed Tamil Nadu Castor‐fingermillet Two year Rainfed Castor‐groundnut Two year Rainfed Rajasthan Castor‐pearlmillet Two year Irrigated D. Agronomic Management Spacing and plant population A plant population of 18,500/ha and 14,000/ha was found to be optimum for rainfed and irrigated areas respectively. About 5 kg seeds/ha is adequate for obtaining the desired plant population. Square planting at 75 x 75 cm for rainfed conditions and 90 x 90 cm for irrigated conditions would help in running the blade harrow both ways and reduce the cost of intra‐row manual weeding. It also helps in controlling the excess vegetative growth and prevents lanky growth of the plants Seed treatment Seeds may be treated with thiram or captan @ 3g/kg seed or carbendazim 2 g/kg to protect plants from seed borne diseases like Alternaria leaf blight, seedling blight and wilt. Treat the seed with Trichoderma viride @ 10 g/kg seed and soil application of 2.5 kg incubated in 125 kg FYM/ha for managing wilt. www.icar.org.in 22 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Crop Science Fertiliser application State/Region‐wise recommendations of fertilizer (kg/ha) for castor in different regions and situations The recommended dose of phosphorus as well as potassium has to be applied as basal dose in the form of single super phosphate and muriate of potash respectively before sowing. For rainfed castor, apart from application of basal dose of 20 kg N fertilizer, top dressing with 20 kg N/ha each at 35‐40 and 65‐70 days after sowing depending upon the moisture availability in the soil provides reasonable economic returns. In the event of a dry spell during 50‐55 days, first top dressing with 20 kg N/ha has to be done at the time of initiation of secondaries with the receipt of rain. In case of rainfed castor grown in Saurashtra region of Gujarat, nitrogen has to be supplied to the crop in 3 splits and the entire dose of phosphorus and potassium has to be applied as basal dose. For irrigated castor in Gujarat, nitrogen has to be given in 5 splits, 40 kg each at sowing, 40, 70, 100 and 130 days after sowing.