 This system ensures coverage of the plants on all the Water softener and collection tanks tiers of two vertigrow systems simultaneously with water soluble fertilizers and plant protection chemicals. Wheel mounted ladders of 2.3 m height and base width of 1.5 m were used to access the plants at different heights during cultural operations. Influence of planting heights Planting heights along the different tiers in the vertigrow structures have a profound influence on the plant growth and production of flowers. Varying light levels, seasonal effects and the shading effect in the different tiers are being considered for carrying out the cultural operations. The average light interception at the top-most tier is 22,500, 18,200 and 9,500 lux during the summer, winter and rainy seasons, respectively. Whereas, at the lowest tier, the average sunlight interception is 9800, 5800 and 1800 lux during the summer, winter and rainy seasons, respectively. Type of containers The type of containers is known to influence the Netted conical pot July–August 2023 29 establishment, growth, development and flowering of the plants. Vertical garden plastic pots (black) of size 4”, 6” and conical netted pots are being used in the vertigrow system to assess their suitability to sustain the plant growth and study the influence on production and quality of spikes. Growth and flowering performance indicate the netted conical pots have an edge over the vertical garden plastic pots. Potting media Potting media in epiphytic orchids is characterised by the ability to provide firm anchorage, retain optimum moisture levels and have porosity for adequate air circulation and for drainage. Charcoal, coconut husk, tile bits alone and a mixture of these in 1:1:1 v/v are used as potting media to determine the best potting media, that is light in weight, economical and supports plant growth and flowering. The interval for repotting is also being evaluated for these potting media. Planting material Tissue cultured uniform hardened plants were planted @1 plant per pot and the potting medium was firmed in to provide adequate support. Planting geometry The number of plants that can be accommodated per unit area of the vertigrow structure, is a pertinent factor to ensure the profitability of the vertigrow system. The placement of the plants in this system must be such that it minimises overlapping, shading and ensures good air circulation. Various planting systems are being assessed to standardize the best one for commercial orchid cultivation, wherein the optimum number of plants produce maximum number of quality spikes. Nutrition Nutrition management of the orchids is done through biweekly foliar spray of 19:19:19 N: P2O5:K2O @0.2% along with a weekly spray of 0.2% of seaweed extract which has beneficial effects on plants. At flowering stage, Dendrobium orchids respond well to 0.2% of 10:60:20 N: P2O5: K2O.