 Simulation of two alternatives for internalizing externalities through different volumetric water pricing policies produces a differential effect on water saving and overall agricultural income, suggesting compensating farmers for any adverse economic impacts. The findings imply the need for direct and visible incentives for crop diversification. As long as water is accessible, the tendency of its indiscriminate use will remain. The volumetric water pricing will also encourage efficient use of surface water. Technology and policy options for reducing India’s import dependence on edible oils: India heavily depends on imports to meet its edible oil demand. Enhancing domestic production capacity should help bring down import bills. The Government of India has taken several policy measures to promote oilseeds and edible oil production. The improvements in production technology and protective tariffs could be the instruments of choice. Possibilities of reducing import dependence by increasing domestic production, adopting yield-enhancing technologies, and raising import tariffs, were investigated. A rise in TFP growth of oilseeds since the mid- 2000s correlates well with an improvement in oilseeds production, signaling the impact of technological change reflected in improvements in productivity and production and its spillover effects. Higher tariffs, other than regulating imports, also protect domestic industries and farmers. The impacts of technological improvements in oilseeds are measured in presence of different levels of tariffs on edible oils using Standard Computable General Equilibrium (CGE) model calibrated to a Social Accounting Matrix (SAM) for 2017-18 to estimate the impacts on domestic oilseeds and edible oil production, rural income, and inflation. Scenarios A and B provide the impacts of raising import tariff rates. Scenario A presumes that the tariff level is raised by 50% and it doubles in Scenario B. Scenarios C and D assume a moderate increase in total factor productivity (TFP) growth in oilseeds in the Distribution of rural workforce between agriculture and non-agriculture joined the non-agricultural sector during this period. This shows a preference for employment outside agriculture. The withdrawal of agricultural workforce further accelerated, and an additional 28 million workers left between 2011-12 and 2017-18. This was accompanied by a slow-down in non-agricultural employment, leading to decline of 21 million in overall rural workforce. The share of agricultural workforce in the rural workforce fell to 59 % in 2017-18. The Period Labour Force Survey (PLFS) conducted during 2019-20 revealed a significant increase in rural workforce over 2017-18.