 Crop Health: Addressing various diseases using environment friendly non-synthetics is another challenge to present day researchers amid vagaries in climate as minor pests/diseases of today could become major issues in future. Limited efforts so far in developing microbial consortium have provided some encouraging results in field, but ensuring crop health resilience is an upheaval task. The research works originated from the Department of Plant Pathology, Assam Agricultural University, have redeemed the growing confidence in the use of microbial bioformulations in this direction. Let’s join our hands vigorously to see that microbes-mediated crop health management is no longer a hurdle for horticulture crops, with the lifting of stringent rules and regulations for label claims as a policy intervention. Some efforts to develop SymCom (synthetic microbes mimicking plant defence via involvement of secondary metabolites as signalling molecules in host-microbe interaction) must be initiated using horticulture crops in a collaborative mode. Secondary horticulture: Post-harvest management with emphasis on proximal sensing of crop maturity, extending shelf life through pre-harvest practices vis-à-vis post-harvest upkeep of fruits, smart packaging, value- added products and waste utilization, all need renewed strategy depending upon prevailing harvesting window of different fruit crops round the year. Extending vase life and shelf life of dry flowers and the art of flower arrangements have seen a recent upsurge in floriculture, besides extraction of flower-based colours used in various cosmetic and food industries. Horticulture crops and carbon trading: Climate change is the most threatening challenge to horticulture crops, otherwise known for producing exceptional biomass and preempt towards improved carbon sequestration by plants, translated well into important ecosystem service in the form of improved yield. This exceptional ability of horticulture crops offers an environmental carbon offset option and possible carbon trading opportunities in the horticulture sector. It is very likely that microbially tailored horticulture crops, introducing endophytes inside the plant body as a perennial ally in stress tolerance ability, would take this ability to a newer dimension. Revolution in horticulture has already lessened the pressure on the use of cereal crops as an additional option for food and nutritional security. Introducing these stances on our current understanding relating various issues of horticulture crops would surely make us better prepared, negotiating with various challenges much better than ever before. For further interaction, please write to: 1Project Director, ICAR-Directorate of Knowledgement Management, New Delhi 110012. 2Principal Scientist, ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Gogamukh, Assam, 787034 Email: director.dkma@icar.gov.in, malhotraskraj@gmail.