 Agrawal, National Coordinator (MM) is acknowledged. The cooperation received from Directorate of Information and Publications in Agriculture (DIPA) in bringing out this Document in a very short time is appreciated. The compilation of this document has been possible by active and painstaking efforts of the project personnel in completion of the task, who deserve applause for their efforts. The assistance received from Shri Sanjay Kushwaha, Technical Officer, ZC Unit, Jabalpur, Shri Vikas Jain and Ms Gigi Annee Abraham, both Research Associates and Ms Seema Naberia, Senior Research Fellow of the Lead Centre in compiling this Document is appreciated. (P DAS) New Delhi Deputy Director-General (AE) 15 December 2004 and Mission Leader T Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English names Botanical names Active ingredients Geographical indications 139 Pest management in paddy Volume 2, page 109 Chilli and tobacco Chilli: Bengali: dhanilanka, lalmorich, lanka, morich; Gujarati: lalmarchan, marchan; Hindi: gachmarich, lalmirich; Kannada: menasinakaayi; Dogri: marchawangun; Malayalam: chalie, chuvanna mulaku, kappalmulaku, milagu; Marathi: mirchi; Oriya: lalmoricho, lankamoricha, moricho; Tamil: mulagay, usimulagay; Telugu: soodimirapakaaya. Tobacco: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: tamaku, tambaku; Kannada: hogesoppu; Malayalam: pokala; Tamil: pugaiyilai; Telugu: pogaku. Chilli: chilli; tobacco: tobacco Chilli: Capsicum annuum Linn. Tobacco: Nicotiana tobacum Linn. Chilli: Capsicum extract or juice strongly inhibits the viruses, causing mosaic diseases of papaya, potato and tobacco. The methanolic extract of fruits inhibits the germination of spores of Venturia inaequalis (Cooke) Wint., which causes scab disease of apple fruits. The extract of fruits and seeds inhibits the seed germination of radish, onion, turnip and garden cress. Tobacco: The bulk of tobacco produced in India is used for smoking in the form of cigarette, bidi, cigar, cheroot, chuttas and in pipe and hookah. It is used as a sedative, anti- spasmodic and vermifuge and in the treatment of various gastro-intestinal disorders, skin diseases and local affection. Chilli: A suffrutescent or herbaceous, short-lived perennial, (cultivated as annual) up to 1 m in height, cultivated throughout India from sea level up to an altitude of 2,100 m. Leaves oblong, glabrous; flowers solitary, rarely in pairs, pure white to bluish-white, very rarely violet; berries green, maturing into yellow, orange to red grading into brown or purple, pendent, rarely erect, very variable in size, shape and pungency, sometimes lobed, seeds white or cream to Habit Contents TTK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES yellow, thin, almost circular, having long placental connections. Chilli was introduced into India by the Portuguese. It is used as a condiment in large quantities in India.