10) was triggered, and an Equity Action Plan (EAP) developed to incorporate social considerations in project planning, implementation, and monitoring and to ensure that potential adverse impacts are adequately mitigated and benefits of project are further enhanced to improve the effectiveness as well as the sustainability of the project. New construction activities are not allowed but the project was financing limited construction activities within the existing premises. These activities not causing any significant environmental or social impacts, Hence, the World Bank Operational Policy on Involuntary Resettlement (OP 4.12) was not triggered, but as limited construction activities are financed, keeping in mind the safety and security of labour, student, teaching and non-teaching staffs, a labour-management plan was developed and implemented for civil construction work. Over the year, awarded AUs have improved the performance of the weaker students by organizing remedial classes, language learning trainings, student mentoring programs. Out of total beneficiaries ~10% female and ~11% male students from SC and ST were benefitted through various programs organised under NAHEP. Whereas, other key initiatives like establishing user friendly campus for differently abled students were taken up by most of the awarded partner AUs during the year. In this initiative more than 500 facilities such as ramps, washrooms, Napkin vending machines, etc. have been established so far. ICAR-National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) The National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) focuses on creation, The major activities and achievements under Monitoring and Learning component included finalization of M&E framework; development and implementation of Project Monitoring and Tracking System (PMTS) in awarded AUs; capacity building activities; documentation of learning and monitoring related activities. In order to establish a fair and transparent system, while effectively addressing the grievances of project stakeholders, a 3 tier grievance redressal mechanism was also established at PIU NAHEP, and made fully operational. Environmental safeguard measures: The project is categorized as Category B as per the environmental safeguard policy of the World Bank, as the interventions like Institutional Development Plans that would update ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 124 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT dissemination and application of knowledge through its academic, training, research, consultancy and policy support programmes. The Academy expanded its activities to reach all stakeholders of NARES. The Academy has also widened the scope of its activities and initiated number of activities to develop a new generation of young leaders and managers who can contribute to sustainable agricultural development at the national level. NAARM Registered Copyrights on Project Management Software: ICAR-NAARM developed three management tools, viz.