 Keywords: bheemkol, khan khutjolokia, fireplace In this practice, 25 g ash of fruit shell of coconut (Cocos nucifera), 4 fruit covers of jogholi bhang (Datura metel), 1 fruit cover of bhim kol (Musa paradisiaca) and some salt are mixed, ground and made into 2 parts. This is given orally twice, morning and evening, to the diseased animal. Keywords: jogholi bhang, bhim kol, coconut Red chilli (50 g), rubber (500 g) and hair are collected and burnt. Inhaling the produced smoke cures the animal. Cattle owners of village Kamuakala of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh give the smoke twice a day. Keywords: chilli, rubber, hair In this ITK, a decoction is prepared by mixing 50 g tulsi leaves (Ocimum sanctum), 20 g mint leaves (Mentha viridis), tea leaves or powder and 50 g aniseeds or ajwain (Trachyspermum ammi). All these ingredients are boiled in water till the water is reduced to half of the original volume. The decoction is then cooled, filtered and given to the ailing animal everyday. According to the farmers, this treatment cures the cold in 3-4 days. Keywords: ajwain, decoction, tulsi, mint, teapowder Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Shri Ram Auttar, S/o Shri Manohar Singh, Kamua Kala, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Mansukhbhai Govindbhai Kapadi, Rajkot (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3437 Treatment for cold, cough and pneumonia of animals by use of turmeric and wine 3438 Use of kair shoots and barks of jal tree to treat pneumonia 3439 Treatment for severe pneumonia by using human urine and black cumin seeds Due to cold and cough the animal feels uneasy and stops grazing. Veins adjoining the front legs and heart seem pulping dominantly. Villagers of Jhadol of district Udaipur in Rajasthan are using this ITK to cure this ailment. Turmeric (100 g), 1 litre wine (liquor) and 25 g salt are mixed properly, and after heating it is fed to the animal. Keywords: cold, cough, pneumonia, turmeric, wine (liquor), salt A decoction of 50 g shoot of kair (Capparis aphylla), 50 g bark of jal (Salvadora persica) tree, 5 g chilli is prepared in 500 g water by boiling. When the mixture remains half, it is filtered and fed to the suffering animal with the help of pipe by cattle owners of village Mayapur of Peesangam, Ajmer (Rajasthan). Jaggery solution is fed prior to decoction. This method is effective when the problem of pneumonia (coryza, cough and cold) is in preliminary stage. It is beneficial for cow, buffalo and goats. The treatment costs Rs 15-20. About 50-60% cattle owners are using it since long. Keywords: kair, jal, jaggery, pneumonia, coryza Pneumonia is a dangerous problem during winter in animals.