 The Marine Products Export Development Authority (MPEDA), established in 1972 under the Ministry of Commerce, Government of India, has been promoting the export of fishery products from the country. FAO’s Bay of Bengal Programme in the 1980s built fiberglass beach landing crafts for use off the surf-beaten shores of Tamil Nadu and Andhra Pradesh. The ICAR-CIFT, in collaboration with naval experts from the FAO, introduced twelve standard designs of wooden fishing boats ranging in size from 7.67 to 15.24 meters for various types of fishing operations, providing a significant boost to India’s fisheries mechanization programme. More than 80% of the motorized wooden fishing crafts of India’s fishing fleet are said to be based on the popular CIFT design or its later derivatives. The Institute has also developed newer designs of trawl gear with improved selectivity and reduced negative environmental impacts to protect the biodiversity and environment and ensure the long-term sustainability of fishery resources. The trawl net gained substantial adoption among the fishers of all coastal states and presently is the most important gear in marine waters contributing more than 50% of the catches from the Indian waters. The harvest of prawns and shrimps from deep waters witnessed a notable jump through trawl fishing that targeted demersal fishes and mid-water pelagic fishes. Fig. 2. F.V. Sagar Harita at deep sea The generation of by-catch from low-selectivity fishing gears has been a matter of concern in commercial fishing. This is particularly of concern in trawl nets and proved to be destructive in terms of juvenile catches. The by-catch reduction devices (BRD) developed Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 175 by ICAR-CIFT have been able to address this problem. Square mesh cod-ends, Fisheye BRD, Sieve Net BRD, Juvenile Fish Excluder cum Shrimp Sorting Device (JFESSD), etc. are some of the BRDs that were field-tested for their effectiveness. Several state governments have stipulated the use of square mesh cod ends in trawl nets to check the incidence of juvenile catches. Species that are at risk due to climate-induced changes such as sea turtles and other Endangered Threatened and Protected (ETP) species often form a by-catch in different gear systems like trawls and long lines. Field studies indicated that the use of Turtle Excluder Devices (TEDs) helps release turtles getting in the way of trawl nets and circle hooks, thereby resulting in lower mortality rates. The use of pingers acts as a deterrent to Cetacean species and results in their interaction with fishing gear like seine nets. ICAR-CIFT has carried out extensive research to improve the fuel efficiency of fishing vessels and in 2016 developed a 19.