 This practice is being followed by cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) since Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology). College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Md. Noor Ahmed. S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh. Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3359 To increasing milk production in cows and buffaloes with ghodigadi plant time immemorial. Keywords: milk efficiency, cow, peshi climber When there is deficiency of milk in cows, the cattle owners cut ghodigadi (Withania somnifera) climber into pieces (about 2-3 kg) and mix some quantity of barley or pulse grains with it. This dose is given up to 20 days for obtaining satisfactory results. This practice is in vogue since time immemorial. Keywords: ghodigadi, deficiency, climber Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 3360 Treatment for increasing milk secretion in livestock 3361 To recover milking efficiency of cattle and buffaloes by feeding jaggery, gram flour {Cicer arietinum) and fenugreek (Trigorella foenum- graecum L.) Shri Bhaity Dutta of Patiogaon gives a herbal mixture to the cattle to increase milk secretion. Ingredients are molasses, turmeric, salt, rice bran and wheat bran, and roots of Mimosa pudica (neelajibon, i. e. touch me not). Few roots of neelajibon (Mimosa pudica) are ground well, to which 200 g of molasses, 1 piece of turmeric and a little salt are added. This prepared mixture can be added with cattle feed (rice bran or wheat bran) to increase milk production. This treatment has been traditionally practised since ages and is found to be very effective. Keywords: molasses, turmeric, salt, rice bran, touch me not Cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajastan give 250 g jaggery twice a day to the animal suffering from decreased milking efficiency. In addition to jaggery, 250 g gram flour and 250 g fenugreek seed paste are also fed to the needy animal for recovery, up to 10 days. Alternatively, 400-500 g aadu flour is given to the needy animal. It is an age-old practice.