 Vikas Yadav, A K Singh*, S S Hiwale, Sanjay Singh and B D Sharma Immature developing fruits USES y In ice creams and other milk products y As jam and jelly y In Ayurvedic and Unani systems of medicine y Seeds as abortifacient and roots as y strong purgative y Seed oil (30%) in soap and paint industry y Seed cake (4% N) as cattle feed and as manure y As insecticide with Neem oil Indian Horticulture 12 continues up to day after anthesis, but the maximum receptivity is at the day of anthesis. The petal colour is light green to yellow. It is self-fruitful variety and gives good fruit set and fruit yield under semi-arid condition of western India. Maturity, ripening and yield: It is heavy yielder, fruit bearing occurs on lateral and terminal branches in this variety. It has spreading growth habit, regular bearer, and ripens in 1st fortnight of November. Fruit ripens after 85-90 days from fruit set. It has 320.12 g average fruit weight, 63.58% fruit pulp, and 29.12o Brix TSS, the average fruit yield per plant was recorded 24.80 kg during 11th year after planting under rain-fed conditions of semi-arid ecosystem. It is precocious and high yielder with big size fruit. It is suitable for both processing and table purpose, and ripened fruits have strong aroma with golden yellow colour at maturity. No major diseases/pest were noticed under field condition. Fruit quality: Thar Amrit has excellent fruit quality characters and fruit taste at mature stage. The average fruit quality trade like fruit weight (g), fruit size (cm), pulp (%), TSS (0Brix), acidity (%), total sugar (%), reducing sugars (%), total seed per fruit, core length (cm) are 320.12, 9.12 × 8.81, 63.58, 29.12, 0.33, 16.64, 14.40, 47.23, and 3.95, respectively. The fruit characters like fruit shape, fruit and pulp colour were recorded as broadly cordate, golden yellow and creamy white, respectively. Fruits are generally bigger in size, having better shelf life of 4-5 days under normal conditions. Production technology Soil and climate: The custard apple can be grown in wide range of soils, although for better plant growth and yield, sandy loam or deep loam well-drained soils with 7-7.5 pH are considered as most favourable. It survives wide range of ecological conditions, reflecting its wide geographical distribution from tropical and sub-tropical to arid and semi-arid regions. Plant propagation: It can be multiplied through soft-wood grafting and patch budding during the month of March-April under rainfed semi-arid condition of western India. Orchard establishment: The pits size 1.0 × 1.0 × 1.0 m is usually considered as better for plant establishment, and are dug out during summer months (May). Well- decomposed organic matter and loamy soil (1:1) are observed as good pit filler. Planting is usually done during rainy season, when the soil in the pits has already settled. The plants should be irrigated immediately after planting.