 yy Creation of cross functional convergence with development agencies, cluster formation in production points by converging Farmer producer organizations (FPOs), market linkages and assessment of the impact through technological incubation and cross cutting initiatives are primary step for the successful establishment of processing industry. yy In the end, bigger players like ITC, Britannia, Parle-G, Horlicks, Boost, Bournvita, Pepsi, Coca Cola, Dabur, etc. should come up with the plan to utilize the banana flour, fruits and juices in their product portfolio to scale up the industrial use and to market it effectively. yy The share of processed industries in agricultural employment has to be enhanced from the present 0.5% to at least 10% with the enhancement of productivity of workers by retaining the youth in agriculture by giving better remuneration and allotting them higher productivity work. With that we can eradicate the dependency of workers in low productivity agricultural activities and shift them to higher remuneration agri-based industrial activities. Fibre rich, designer food products using central core stem powder Process for the production of banana central core stem powder and its incorporation in the preparation of designer foods were evaluated. Banana pseudostem, is regarded as waste, are rich in minerals such as potassium, calcium, sodium, magnesium, phosphorus, copper and iron. The central core stem was washed, sliced, and ground to powder. The dried samples were powdered in a grinder and sieved (sieve no 60 mm). Cookies were prepared by incorporating the prepared banana central Indian Horticulture 40 yy Developing methodologies based on input-output models which provide information about the cluster wise production of banana and could identify the major catchments for supplying the fresh produces. This will allow in calculating the impact of any change in the supply chain. Using AI/ IoT/ App based platforms to provide and generate real time data points. yy In order to sustain the production and growth potential, it is essential to make value added products based on banana, so that farmers get an assured price for their produce all the time. India is the land of more than 30 ethnic varieties in different states with different taste, flavor and nutritional advantages. For example, Nendran is rich in vitamin A and thus could be used for making functional powders to alleviate malnutrition among the rural masses. Likewise, the enormous processing potential could be tapped by developing and commercializing variety dependent technologies. yy Building right infrastructure for converting raw banana into flour, ripe banana into health powder and making banana puree need to be prioritized. All these products have a greater nutritional potential and could be used in functional food markets with its pre- biotic characters.