), 25 accessions of phalsa (Grevia subinaequalis) were collected and added to the field gene bank. Four apple cultivars, viz. Gala Red Lum, Super Chief, Golden Delicious Reindeers and Red Velox were imported from Italy. The promising apple rootstocks, viz. M-9 T337, M9 T339, Pajam-1, M-27, p-22, MM111 MM-AAA and MM-106 were imported. Vegetable crops: During the exploration conducted in Nagaland, 176 accessions of vegetables, wild relatives of crop plants and land races belonging to 40 taxa and including some unique collections like, Abelmoschus tetraphyllus var. Pungens and Momordica subangulata subsp. Subangulata were collected. In addition, a total of 395 germplasm accessions in 16 vegetable crops were collected from diverse sources. These are brinjal (64), tomato (102), chilli (11), pointed gourd (11), cowpea (3), radish (3), garden pea (8), okra (12), cauliflower (2), carrot (2), sponge gourd (4), basella (48), amaranth (110), bitter gourd (10), bottle gourd (4) and quinoa (1). Twenty Allium germplasm lines were collected from North-East region and Kullu region. Similarly, 24 garlic local varieties were collected from Tamil Nadu, Mandsore etc. and added in garlic germplasm stock for initial evaluation. Plantation crops: A total of 17 trait-specific coconut accessions, 16 from Car Nicobar Island and one from South Andaman, for specific traits, viz. dwarfness, large fruit size, high copra, robust stem, high nut production, fruit colour, soft-cum-easy peel husk, sweet kernel and high tender nut water content were collected. A total of five distinct areca nut accessions, three from Karnataka and one dwarf accession and a wild type from Andaman and Nicobar Islands were collected. Twenty oil palm germplasm accessions were imported from Malaysia. The performance of germplasm was evaluated by MPOB, Malaysia and 10 dura types from Sierra Leone and 10 from Senegal were selected based on individual palm performance. The screened accessions were imported to India. These germplasm were exchanged with dura types of Guinea Bissau and Zambia available in India. Tuber crops: A total of 34 germplasm accessions of tuber crops were collected from Karnataka, Rajasthan, Kerala and West Bengal. They were 6 accessions of sweer potato, 8 of greater yam, 3 of lesser yam, 1 of potato yam, 7 of taro, 4 of elephant-foot yam and 2 of tannia (Alocasia macrorhizus). Ornamental crops: A total of 59 germplasm Microbial cultures at NAIMCC Among bacteria, conserved biofertilizer and plant- growth promoting strains of Rhizobium (1), Bacillus spp. (41), Pseudomonas spp. (4), Paenibacillus spp. (1) and Enterobacter spp. (4); plant-pathogenic bacterial strains (10) like Ralstonia spp. (6) and Xanthomonas spp. (4); and many other bacterial strains like Citrobacter spp., Holorubrum spp., Achromobacter spp. were preserved in the culture collection. Nitrogen-fixing cyanobacteria (103) predominanted in North-East India, like Nostoc spp., Anabaena spp., Westelliopsis spp.