 of Manipur yielded good growth performance of the fish Osteobrama belengeri showing technological feasibility. The pen culture system was found to be economically viable with a benefit-cost ratio of 1.37. Issues The appropriate adoption of enclosure culture technology offers enormous scope for enhancement of fish production. There are several key issues to be addressed such as species diversification, seed production of diverse species, development of low- cost environment friendly feed, development of a package of practices, estimation of carrying capacity, the environmental impact of cage culture etc. for ensuring the sustainability of enclosure culture in inland open waters. Diversification of fish species based on regional preference, nutritional value and local acceptability will ensure the popularization and profitability of culture practices. Conclusion Inland open waters are potential resources that are ideal for augmenting production through the adoption of refined technologies viz. cage and pen culture. The Govt. of India has prioritized increasing fish Indian Farming November 2020 10 C ANALS are the second most important (26%) source of irrigation covering 17.0 million ha in India. Major States under canal irrigation are Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Haryana, Jammu & Kashmir, West Bengal, Punjab, Rajasthan, Bihar, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu and Uttar Pradesh. The plains of North India are canal irrigated including some parts of peninsular India where two types of canal exist viz., inundation canals and perennial canals. In inundation canals, water is taken from large rivers when water level is high enough, especially during monsoon. On the other hand, perennial canals are connected with dams and barrages for providing water round the year for irrigation. The total length of the canal in India is 1,26,334 km which can support various levels of fish productions practices at a time, these are hitherto not scientifically utilized for fisheries. Canals in Indian Sundarbans: Opportunities towards livelihood improvement through fisheries intervention P Gogoi1, P K Parida1, A Sinha2, T Tayung1, V R Suresh3 and B K Das4* ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 120 Canals in Indian Sundarbans are still underutilized in terms of sustainable fish production. Erection of barriers in these canals is a common practice for catching fishes. This may lead to intensive fishing of innate fishes and also barring natural recruitment into the canal. To rejuvenate and augment fish productions from canals, a degree of management is required for these resources. ICAR-CIFRI has initiated the staggered stocking of IMC in six freshwater canals of Sundarbans. It was reported that the practice of simple release of Indian Major Carps (IMC) in these canals produced 800 kg/ha/year of table sized fish without supplementary feeding. Similarly, in net partitions the maximum size recorded for catla, rohu and mrigal was 1.2, 1.0 and 0.