 However, we find no studies that explore specific nutrient consumption such as calories, iron, zinc etc., consumed by women, which would ultimately have long-term implications on nutri­ tion outcomes such as BMI. Besides the limited evidence presented above, the literature also groups women as one homogenous category and does not discuss the differences among cropping patterns, land size, and the underlying mechanisms that explain these relationships. Our study makes the following key contributions. It’s the first study that associates seasonal time trade-offs with specific women’s nutrition outcomes such as the consumption of calories, iron, etc. Among the several pathways through which agriculture can impact nutrition, there are limited studies that look at how time use as a pathway (Johnston et al., 2018). Through this study we contribute to the literature on agricultural- nutrition pathways by examining the time-use pathways in a detailed manner. We further this literature by looking at the variation across cropping patterns, income groups and provide first insights into the underlying mechanisms. These estimates also contribute to the knowledge of women’s opportunity cost of time in an agricultural setting and a developing country context. We measure multiple out­ comes of women’s actual consumption of nutrients. In a novel attempt that is nuanced, precise, and context-specific, we standardize 502 locally consumed dishes in terms of nutrient composition and time taken for preparation. Methodologically we provide precise nutrient intake esti­ mates at the individual level and provide a large novel dataset with individual-level diet and time use information that spans across seasons. Besides examining the time-use pathway, we provide detailed estimates of women and men’s seasonal time allocation to agriculture and household activities. This adds to the extensive literature on the work and time burdens experienced by women in agriculture and the importance of recognizing these time trade-offs. This study’s findings lend support for introducing labor-saving technologies to reduce women’s time burdens in agricultural and household activities and enhance their nutrition outcomes. The rest of the paper is structured as follows. Section two provides details of the fieldwork and data collection process. Section three de­ scribes the measures and the method of analysis, followed by results in Section four. Finally, we conclude by discussing the policy implications in Section five. 2. Fieldwork and data collection 2.1. Fieldwork We administered three primary surveys for obtaining the data. These surveys were conducted from December 2016 to February 2018, and details of each survey, including the map, are given in Figs. 1 and 2. We obtained ethical approval for this study from the Institutional Review Board at Cornell University. Oral consent for all the surveys was ob­ tained and recorded in tablets as a part of computer based surveys. 2.1.1.