 Further, a feed resource mapping exercise was carried out in association with NIANP to understand the demand and availability of feed resources in ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 42 all the states at district level. A structural study to identify the treatment combination that can yield highest energy is in progress. The entire work will be continued by installing a pilot plant with one ton per day capacity to generate data required for commissioning commercial plants by trying with different straws/stovers, species of animals (dairy, meat), engineering options (time, temperature, pressure, chemicals etc.) and processor costs including costs of recycling residues (lignin, water) to make sure that there is ‘0’ discharge and the operation is environmentally friendly. Rice straw samples of 390 released varieties and 101 mapping population from National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack were investigated for their fodder quality parameters such as nitrogen, neutral (NDF) and acid detergent fibres (ADF), acid detergent lignin (ADL), silica, metabolizable energy (ME) and in vitro organic matter digestibility (IVOMD). It was found that Tanmayee, one of the 390 cultivars, has high digestibility (46.2%) compared to others and among the 101-mapping population the line BA 115, though has highest digestibility (43.1%), BA 36 has high N (0.88%) with digestibility (42.5%) closer to BA 115. In collaboration with Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad, more than 300 sorghum stover samples from two seasons in two locations were analysed for their fodder quality. Analysis done across locations in the AHT-GS trial showed that there is no significant difference among the entries in Nitrogen and acid detergent lignin but there was significant difference in the other traits (NDF, ADF, ME, IVOMD, GY, SY). Whereas in the AVT-GS and IAVHT-SS trials significant difference was found for all the traits in both entries and locations. It was also found that there was no correlation between stover quality traits and yields in all the trials. Genome wide association study in Indigenous poultry breeds/varieties Chicken play an important role in livestock sector contributing livelihood security in the form of poultry meat and egg to the rural people. Indigenous poultry farming provides a viable opportunity for the rural population to ensure food security, self- employment and improved livelihoods while contributing to the national economic growth. Free- range poultry farming is easy to establish, they are more prolific and unproblematic to rear on small plots of land and are more genetically diverse, well adapted, and more resistant to local pests and diseases. However, this sector is also subject to some constraints which lower the productivity of traditional chicken. The native poultry represent a valuable resource for livestock development due to their extensive genetic diversity which allows for rearing of poultry under varied environmental conditions.