 Similarly, efficient microorganisms consisting of Candida tropicalis (Y6), Lactobacillus sp., Streptomyces globisporous (C3), Phanerochaete chrysosporium (VV18), and Pusa compost inoculum have shown rapid decomposition of paddy straw. Way forward The use of microorganisms for environment friendly approaches from agriculture to plastic degradation to petroleum degradation is being widely accepted and touted as the novel means towards sustainability. These methods, although in place, need certain refinement and widespread application and research to be perfect however; their advantages are significant and have the potential to change the outlook on agricultural waste degradation, as we know it by being adapted as regular means. SUMMARY In the wake of the increasing global climate crisis and exponential rates of rise in population, the need for proper utilization of agricultural waste is also imperative. While most of the conventionally applied methods, like burning, contribute to an already dilapidated state of the environment, the utilization of this biomass for the generation of methane and other biofuels is also not completely without consequences. These methods not only leads to loss of SOC, but also take away the much-needed nutrition from the soil. These circumstances make in situ residue retention and subsequent biodegradation the most beneficial method for managing waste from paddy straws. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: kailash.kumawat@shiats.edu.in Indian Farming 23 August 2023 Animal feed solar cooker: Design and economics Surendra Poonia, N K Jat* and C M Ola ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 003 The farming systems in arid western Rajasthan are largely livestock based. The feed concentrates are essential to maintain health and milk production of the mulching animals in particular. For boiling of animal feed, huge amounts of firewood, animal dung cake and other organic wastes are burnt which make it costly, time consuming and unhealthy practice of livestock rearing. In this regard, the abundantly available solar radiation in the region can be utilized for boiling animal feed. Therefore, a low-cost high capacity solar cooker was designed for boiling animal feed using solar energy. The solar cooker was found suitable for boiling 10 kg animal feed per day, which is sufficient for 5 cattle and its efficiency was observed to be 26.4%. This solar cooker was found to save around 91 man-days/year of farm women and 1059 kg of fuel wood/year which is equivalent to 3611 MJ of energy besides saving firewood and animal dung cake for alternative usages. Hence, the animal feed preparation through solar cooker not only reduces greenhouse gas emissions but also helps in fuel conservation and drudgery reduction. Moreover, the use of the solar cooker for animal feed would result in the reduction of the release of 1442.64 kg of CO2 savings/year.