86) a (Figure in the parenthesis indicates the percentages to the total). R. Rakholia et al. Journal of Agriculture and Food Research 17 (2024) 101238 8 to integrate with emerging technologies. The agriculture sector has a significant impact on the Indian economy. This research study identifies major factors for farmers to adopt new emerging technologies to enhance productivity through improved farming processes. This study’s result shows a positive response towards adopting new technology. 59 % of farmers responded positively to adopting new technology. The other 35 % of farmers are confused about its adoption. The reason behind that is a lack of awareness and information about the technology. The farmers do not have the correct information about the new technology and do not have any reliable sources to get informed about technology, which creates confusion on its reliability. The following are a few as­ pects that have impacted the rate of technological advancement adoption. • The farmers do not have enough capital to invest in new technology. • Farmers are unaware of the new technology, which shows the poor extension system. • Proper and detailed guidance is not reaching the farmers, creating confusion among them. • Farmers are willing to adopt the newly emerged technology if they are adequately informed and if their problems get resolved. Availability of data and material All relevant data and material are presented in the main paper. Funding This work was supported and funded by National Science and Technology Management Information System, Department of Science and Technology, Government of India through the (NSTMIS/2019/94) initiative under Policy Coordination and Program Management for estimating emerging technologies adoption for sustainable agriculture in India. Consent for publication Not applicable. Ethics approval and consent to participate Not applicable. CRediT authorship contribution statement Rajnish Rakholia: Writing – original draft. Jinal Tailor: Data curation. Mitul Prajapati: Formal analysis. Manan Shah: Supervision. Jatinderkumar R. Saini: Writing – review & editing. Declaration of competing interest The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper. Data availability No data was used for the research described in the article. Acknowledgements The authors would like to thank the Department of Science and Technology, Ministry of Science and Technology for the support and funding received for project “Emerging Technology Adoption for Sus­ tainable Agriculture in India” (NSTMIS/2019/94). We also would like to thank S. S. Agrawal Institute of Management and Technology, Navsari for providing the required resources to carried out this research work. Fig. 3. Willingness of farmers towards adopting new technology at the overall level. R. Rakholia et al.