2 Essential qualifications: Host Organization should follow strictly the ICAR norms and guidelines for the recruitment of KVK staff. The essential qualifications as prescribed by ICAR for the recruitment of staff under KVK are indicated in Appendix VI. 6.2.3 Recruitment procedure: The following guidelines should be followed. ●Since KVKs are 100% funded by the ICAR, the host organizations shall get an undertaking from the respective State Governments that there shall be no restriction/ban for recruiting all the sanctioned KVK posts. The MoU should also be modified to this effect. ●In the case of KVKs functioning under the Non-Government Organizations, the NGO should advertise the posts in Employment News and a leading local newspaper, and details are to be posted on websites of Host Organization and KVK. Invariably, advertisements should appear 6 months in advance of the retirement date so that the new incumbent will be in position on the day the post falls vacant. Further, applications received are to be screened by a Committee, including one representative drawn from a nearby AU. The academic qualifications and experience for the posts should not be less than what is prescribed by ICAR. The promotional policy including the pay and eligibility criteria should be as applicable to similar posts in ICAR. ●The Recruitment/Selection Committee for the recruitment of Chief Scientist-cum-Head for KVKs under NGO shall be constituted by the concerned NGO. The Committee shall comprise of Head of the Host Organization as Chairperson; Zonal Project Director, Director of nearby ICAR institute, one Expert in the rank of Professor and above from technology backstopping AU to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor; and one eminent agricultural expert to be nominated by Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) as Members. ●The Recruitment/Selection Committee for the recruitment Staff other than Chief Scientist- cum-Head for KVKs under NGOs, shall be constituted by the concerned NGO. The Committee 85 Administrative Guidelines shall comprise of, the Head of the Organization as Chairperson; Zonal Project Director or his nominee, Representative of ICAR to be nominated by Director of nearby ICAR institute (should be Group A level officer and at least one level above the level in which the recruitment is to be made), and Two Experts in the relevant field to be nominated by the Vice-Chancellor of nearby AU (should be Group A level Officer; if not available, then an Officer at least one level above the post in which the recruitment is to be made), as Members. ●No Member (including the Chairperson) should sit in the Selection Committee for the recruitment of KVK staff, if any of his/her relative appears for the interview. In such cases, the senior-most officer of the host Organization should act as the Chairperson of the Selection Committee. The Chairperson and all the Members should compulsorily require conducting and recording the Proceedings of Selection.