 The fruit is part of the daily diet to more than 400 million people around the world and is the fourth most important global food commodity after rice, wheat and milk, in terms of the gross value of production. It is believed that 1000 varieties of banana subdivided into 50 groups are cultivated in more than 150 countries with the production of about 105 million tonnes per year. Among various continents, Asia has the lion’s share of 60% in global banana production of which India contributes to 48% of the total production in Asia from 39% of the total area. At present India is the largest producer of banana in the world contributing 29.1% to the global production of banana with a total production of 29.7 million tons from an area of 0.80 million hectares. In India the banana is grown in the regions from the humid tropics to humid subtropics and semi arid tropics like Tamil Nadu, Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, West Bengal, Assam and Odhisha. The national average productivity is 38.25 tonnes per hectare and a maximum of 66 ton/ha was recorded in Gujarat, Maharashtra (58.2 ton/ha) and Tamil Nadu (47.9 ton/ha) thanks to the adoption of high yielding Cavendish clones coupled with improved technologies like high density planting, fertigation and use of tissue cultured plants. The largest area under banana cultivation is in Tamil Nadu state followed by Maharashtra, Gujarat, Andra Pradesh and Karnataka. Although location specific varieties like Rasthali (Silk), Poovan (Mysore), Ney Poovan, Thella Chakkarakeli, Karpuravalli (Pisang Awak), Nendran (French Plan), Hill Banana (Pome-AAB) and Monthan (Cooking banana) are grown in large quantity in different regions of the country, the Indian banana trade mainly depends on Cavendish clones which is called by different names (Basrai, Robusta, Harichal, Grand Naine, Shrimanthi, Bhusaval and Pedda Pacha Arati) in different regions. The Cavendish clones occupies 52% of the total area under banana cultivation and contributes 64% of the total banana production. Mango Mango is an important fruit crop grown in 18 districts of the State. The average area and production of mango were 13.12 lakh ha and 7.27 lakh tonnes respectively with average productivity of 5,523 kg/ha. Perusal of the Table 13 indicates that Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Kanyakumari, Krishnagiri and Thanjavur districts witnessed negative growth in area and in the remaining 13 districts, the growth rate of area under mango was positive. Similarly, Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Theni, Thiruvallur and Virudhunagar district had negative growth in production. 508 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 The productivity trend was negative in six districts namely Coimbatore, Madurai, Sivagangai, Theni, Tirunelveli, Thiruvallur and Virudhunagar. In all the other districts, positive trend could be observed.