 Fruits may be kept for 3-4 days for softening. Generally a 15 year old seedling plant produces 20-30 kg fruits per plant. The fruits are sour and not much preferred for table purpose. The fruit is made into jam, chutney, curries, squash, dried flakes, etc. A kind of cool drink is prepared from fruits. In Malaysia, fruit is used as a substitute for tamarind in curries. These species have tremendous potential as crops of next generation in Western Ghats and NE regions. There is a lot of potential of these species in pharmaceutical and processing industries. Very limited research works has been done on the production technologies of these indigenous underutilized species. For further interaction, please write to: Prakash Chandra Tripathi, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessaraghatta Lake Post, Bengaluru, Karnataka. *Corresponding author email: prakaashtripathii2000@ yahoo.co.in Indian Horticulture 10 Jaydeep Halder*, H R Sardana, M K Pandey, K Nagendran and M N Bhat Success Story B itter gourd (Momordica charantia Linn.) is grown by about 60% of the vegetable growers as the main Kharif season crop in the Mahagaon village of Varanasi. However, full yield potential of bitter gourd is not realized by the farmers due to biotic constrains especially fruit fly (Bactrocera cucurbitae), cucumber moth (Diaphania indica) and Downey mildew (Pseudoperonospora parasitica). Indiscriminate and injudicious usage of pesticides to overcome the losses often failed to bring smile to the farmers’ faces. ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh and ICAR-National Research Centre of Integrated Pest Management, New Delhi jointly realized the genuine problem of growers and formulated an Integrated Pest Management (IPM) Programme for cucurbitaceous vegetable crops particularly for bitter gourd to bring down the losses due to these biotic stresses and thereby increase the production, productivity and overall net returns to the farmers. The model was initially implemented in the village Mahagaon, district Varanasi and village Adalpura, district Mirzapur and village Malhana (Majhauliraj), district Deoria. These villages are popular for growing vegetables especially bitter gourd for several years. Due to continuous growing of cucurbits, especially bitter gourd over several years, intensity and severity of several pests has increased. Before 2014-15, growers on an average used to give 20-25 chemical pesticide sprays alone in a season. Spraying of chemicals was generally undertaken at regular intervals without observing the pest load by most of the cultivators. Despite high load of pesticide sprays, farmers were unable to raise their production and productivity. That is why a joint integrated pest management programme was taken up by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi in collaboration with ICAR-NCIPM, New Delhi.