 Initially, AHS7 virus strain vaccine was used to control the disease; however, this failed to provide sufficient protection. Later, indigenous mouse adopted strain 9 monovalent vaccine followed by AHS-9 chick embryo origin vaccine was developed to control the disease. The last report of AHS was in 1963 (Kumar 1976). In the 82nd General Session of OIE, India was declared free from AHS. Thus, IVRI played a lead role in eradication of AHS by contributing towards virus isolation, characterization, and development of vaccines and diagnostics. 4. Control of cattle and buffalo diseases In addition to the eradicated diseases, several other livestock diseases are being monitored and controlled through different interventions. 4.1. Control of foot and mouth disease and its impact Foot and mouth disease is caused by an Aphthovirus of the family Picornaviridae. Seven serotypes (O, A, Asia-1, C, SAT1, SAT2 & SAT3) are present globally. Out of the known serotypes, four serotypes viz., O, A, C, and Asia 1 were reported in India, before 1995. Now 3 serotypes (O, A, and Asia1) of the FMD virus are circulating in livestock in the country. Serotype C has not been recorded in India from 1995 onwards. The FMD affected large ruminants exhibit high fever, excessive frothy salivation, vesicles in the mouth especially on the tongue, teats, and inter-digital space, and decrease in milk yield due to reduced feed intake. Effective vaccines with short lived immunity are available; however, vaccines with long term immunity are needed. Indigenously developed state-of-the-art diagnostics are available for laboratory and field applications. Being a transboundary animal disease, technical know-how for FMD needs to be extended to SAARC member countries, which requires strong linkages with FAO and OIE. Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 239 The research on FMD vaccine started at IVRI, Mukteswar in 1943 with an ICAR sponsored Ad-hoc scheme “Vaccination of Indian cattle against FMD”. Crystal violet vaccine was prepared in the initial stages (1946-52), followed by goat kidney primary tissue culture methodology in 1964-65 and BHK-21 monolayer during 1972-77 at Mukteswar. With the increasing need for FMD vaccines, the Bengaluru campus of IVRI was established in 1972 for large-scale vaccine production using suspension cell culture. From 1971 to 1990, techniques for FMD virus typing, micro-complement fixation test, and microneutralization tests for subtyping were developed. ICAR driven FMD research and infrastructure development contributed immensely to FMD control efforts (Table 4). Table 4. Milestones in foot and mouth disease control Year Milestones 1946-52 FMD crystal violet tongue vaccine developed and updated. 1968 All India Co-ordinated Research Project (AICRP) for FMD virus typing launched. 1971 AICRP for Epidemiological studies on foot-and-mouth disease initiated. 1972 Bengaluru campus of IVRI established for large scale FMD vaccine production.