 Nursery growing under polyhouse showed a significant result. In the polyhouse technique, a greater number of plants per unit area and the crop growth from it gave higher early and total fruit yields. Challenges yy High temperature being the major challenge allows to grow only limited crops in summer months and the grown crops withstand scorching heat of sun with heat storms. yy High level of radiations encounters the sudden increase in temperature and encourage water deficit stress and both reduces the adaptability of newly introduced crops. yy The quantity and quality of underground water is limited for irrigation however, the quality of water deteriorate due to presence of salts (saline and brackish). yy This region possesses rugged and undulated topography and the soils are poorly fertile being very low in organic carbon (i.e. 0.1-0.4% only), nitrogen, phosphorus and zinc and has high degree of erodibility. Therefore, surface and sub-surface runoff is very common during rainy season. yy Low and scattered vegetation cover in these regions are very common which favours frequent dust storms ultimately causing significant loss to the crops. yy This region commonly has erratic and uneven rainfall (750-1020 mm), however, recurrent monsoon failure makes this region a drought prone area. Scarcity of water gives cause to the need for its more efficient use. Therefore, in situ and ex situ rain water harvesting and afforestation is the only key to manage challenged environment. yy Protected cultivation technology requires very careful planning, maintenance and management about timing of production and further, harvest time to coincide with the shortage period of availability of vegetables and high market prices, choice of varieties adopted to off season environments, and able to produce higher and economical yields of high-quality produce, etc. Opportunities yy The escalating population and economy has resulted in a continuous increasing demand for vegetables and high valued crops. yy Creation of huge self-employments for unemployed educated youths. yy Raising the national economy by sale of high-quality produce in domestic and international markets. yy Unproductive lands can be converted for good quality production of horticultural crops. yy Protected cultivation possesses high potential for enhancing the income of farmers opting for quality and off-season vegetable and cut flower cultivation. yy An increased water efficiency is possible solely with protected cultivation. yy Developing climate-resilient vegetables suitable for protected cultivation. yy Focusing on local values, indigenous knowledge and uses: such an approach will strengthen the link between diversity and sustainable uses and is important in considering marketability. Strategies yy Standardizing proper designing of low-medium cost polyhouse including cladding and glazing material.