 Chaals used traditionally in the village Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE METHODOLOGY The landscape is very steep, with a slope of 70- 75% (Fig. 1). About 500 apple trees were planted along the visually-observed contours at a spacing of 3-6 m. The trees are being fertilized regularly with chemical fertilizers and farmyard manure. The orchard is completely rainfed. There is no source of water for irrigation. The rainfall is inadequate and highly variable in distribution. The apple trees therefore often experience moisture stress. Consequently, these are weak and do not show full vigour. This experiment was conducted during 2002- 2004. Two sets of treatments were imposed in this study. 1. For in-situ rain-water harvesting and profile moisture conservation, the following three sets of treatments, in addition to control, were tested: mulching, terracing + mulching, and terracing + trenching + mulching. 2. For testing chaal, five types of dug-out tanks were constructed at appropriate locations in the experimental area, viz. (i) polyethelene-lined tank, (ii) bitumen (tarcoal)-lined tank, (iii) cement+concrete- lined tank (RCC), (iv) mud-plastered tank, and (v) unlined tank (control). The whole experimental site was divided into three blocks for imposing the following treatments: (i) Terracing: Land shaping between two apple trees along the contours in such a way that rain water flows towards the tree basins, (ii) Trenching: Small trenches of appropriate sizes were dug above the tree basins to harvest rain water in situ. (iii) Mulching: The tree basins were mulched with FYM, pine needles, pebbles and cocopit, in addition to unmulched control. Terracing Terracing was done in two blocks of the ig. 2. Terraced block experimental area, covering 20 plant rows, with a total length of 2,040 m (Fig. 2). The average width of these terraces was 1.5 m. It involved an earth-work of about 1,530 m3. A gentle side-wise slope was given on each terrace to direct the run- off during rain storms, if any, towards the tree basins. Trenching Trenches (0.3-0.4 m deep and 0.3-0.4 m wide) were made along the hill-side wall, above the apple tree basins (Fig. 3). The total length of trenching, covering 11 plant rows, was 1,122 m. The average breadth and depth of these trenches was 0.304 m each. Trenching involved an earth- work of 103.6 m3. Mulching The tree basins were mulched with farmyard manure (10-15 cm thick layer), pine needles, cocopit (prepared from coconut fibre) and pebbles (single layer) (Figs 4-7). The cocopit was either mixed with soil or spread over soil surface in the tree basin. Five trees with each type of mulch, including the control without mulch were tagged for taking observations on the effect of water harvesting or conservation on the growth and vigour of apple trees. Before spreading the polyethelene sheet in the dug-out tank, the walls of the tank were Contents RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT Fig. 3.