 Madan Mohan took keen interest in protected vegetable and mushroom production. He remained in touch with ICAR-VPKAS and performed all the processes and followed the advice. The close monitoring, awareness, zeal to grow a new product of the area and sincerity led to produce a bumper crop of button mushroom and he produced 1 quintal saleable button mushroom. Likewise, he got 7.5 q vegetable production of tomato, capsicum, cabbage, cauliflower, French bean from VL Portable Polyhouse measuring 62.4 square meters. Most importantly, these produces were off-season when there was no glut available with the local retailers from Haldwani mandi. The impact With all these efforts from training, demonstration, adoption and marketing wrote a story of success and from these two enterprises he earned an income of ₹ 41,250.00 that was double than his previous usual farm income. Moreover, his interest and hard work and continuous learning habit let these both the enterprises highly profitable for him as well as became inspiration for the fellow farmers. His efforts were also recognized as felicitation in ICAR- VPKAS, Almora Kisan Mela. Thus, these efforts and technologies are creating belief among the marginal schedule caste farmers and they are realizing that the suitable technologies are for them also that are bringing change in their life. Frontline Demonstration of VL Sweet Corn Hybrid 2: Frontline demonstrations were conducted in Dadim village, Nainital district, under the SCSP program. These demonstrations showcased the yield of VL Sweet Corn Hybrid 2, with green cob yields ranging from 157.1 to 174.8 q/ha. A Maize Field Day was also organized to further promote this hybrid corn variety. Hands-on Training and Demonstration for Drip Irrigation Installation: A hands-on training and demonstration on the installation of drip irrigation Frontline Demonstration of Improved Varieties of Finger Millet: Frontline demonstrations were conducted to showcase the benefits of two improved finger millet varieties (VL 376 and VL 352). These demonstrations highlighted the yield advantages of these varieties and promoted their adoption, along with management practices, to increase the profitability of finger millet production. RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 190 systems were organized for farmers. These systems were installed under polyhouses constructed at farmers’ fields in various villages, including Darim in Nainital District, and Lakhani and Uderkhani in Bageshwar District. This initiative aimed to promote efficient water use, especially in hilly regions, by integrating drip irrigation with water harvesting. Fabrication of VL Poly-tanks at farmer’s fields: Polytank technology was demonstrated through farmer participatory approaches. Poly tanks were constructed in Darima village of Nainital district and Lakhani and Uderkhani villages of Bageshwar district, Uttarakhand.