 In Kerala, 87 per cent of the groups survived economically, especially vegetable farmers, whereas individual male vegetable farmers lost most of their produce due to lack of harvest labour and market access. In Gujarat and Bihar, the farmers’ groups reported that they were more food secure during the COVID-19 lockdown than individual smallholders in their village. These experiences provide lessons for replication. For group farms to succeed we need State support and NGO guidance in the initial stages; members connected via neighborhoods; small group size of 6-10 members who are economically homogeneous while being socially heterogeneous; egalitarian in decision making and in the sharing of labour and costs and scaled up via autonomous federated structures. Moreover, groups of farmers’ collectives could form farmer producer organisations for marketing. Allied sectors In addition to crop cultivation, agriculture’s allied sectors – livestock, fisheries and forests have huge underused potential. Livestock is a poor-centric and women- centric venture and can gain from 46 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series cooperative marketing, as done for milk. India is also the world’s second largest producer of aquaculture fish, employing large numbers, including women. In 2017-18, Indian fisheries grew at 11.9 per cent. There is thus a huge potential for growth here, especially by groups of women. Similarly forests and commons provide small farmers green manure, fodder, soil, water and other ecosystems services. But we need to protect and revive forests. Here community forestry launched in 1990 has borne fruit. India’s forest cover has increased to 21.5 per cent of our geographic area. The target is 33 per cent. It is notable that forest improvements are much greater if community forest management included poor women, since they have the most stake in forests for their firewood and fodder needs. In fact, forest protection, plantation and biodiversity restoration could create thousands of jobs. Hence to transform agriculture eco- logically, technically and institutionally, we should treat crops, livestock, fish and forest as an integrated whole. In addition, the rural sector can be a major partner of farmers: 61 per cent of the income of rural households comes from the non- farm sector. But we need to enlarge farm- nonfarm linkages by promoting activities such as agro-processing, machine tools, farm tourism and eco-tourism. Transforming agriculture and its allied sectors through a model of cooperation will help us build back the economic and social fabric of communities. Institutional and technical transformation in farming would also help more rural youth find local jobs and live closer to their families, rather than being forced to migrate to inhospitable cities. India has an opportunity to forge another path to agrarian change that is equitable and inclusive, ecologically sustainable, institutionally innovative and attractive to women & youth.