 Bunch cover treatments with polyethylene were effective and economic for controlling damage caused by Nodostoma subcostatum. Bunch covering with Decis impregnated nylon net protected the banana completely from the attack of banana leaf and fruit beetle. y Leaf extract of Sapindus saponaria (Monisal) has the most effective insecticidal activity to reduce the N. subcostatum followed by Azadirachta indica (Neem) and Nyctanthes arbortristis (Sewali). Thus, there is the possibility of developing a source of alternate insecticidal agent for sustainable management of insect pests of the banana. y Soil application of Beauveria bassiana and Metarhizium anisopliae fungi has shown to be significantly effective to control this pest. y Among the treatments including one entomopathogenic fungus (Beauveria bassiana) and three neem products tested against banana scarring beetle, B. bassiana (5g/L) and azadirachtin (5ml/L) are highly effective. Banana red rust thrips [Chaetanophothrips signipennis, Thripidae, Thysanoptera] Damage symptoms: The early symptoms appear as water-soaked smoky areas where the colonies congregate to feed and oviposit between touching or adjacent fruit. These areas then develop the typical rusty-red to dark brown-black discolouration. Further rusty growth of the fruit and yellowing of leaves may be observed. While the taste and texture of the fruit within these peels remains unaffected, the exterior discolouration reduces the marketability of affected fruit. In severe cases, the skin develops longitudinal cracks and sometimes fruit may split and exposed flesh quickly discolours. Sustainable management: y Use thrips-free planting material or tissue-cultured bananas and, if possible, hot water treatment prior to planting. y Destroy all the volunteer plants that could act as a source of thrips to spread to other plantings. y Bunch covers (which cover the full length of the bunch) do provide some protection if applied very early. y Regular checking of fruit under the bunch covers is essential to ensure that damage is not occurring. y At the time of shooting, cover the bunch firmly (without any space between polythene cover and bunch) with 100 gauge thickness polythene sleeve having 6 to 10% holes. y Remove the male flower buds after opening of all hands. y Use blue pan water sticky trap @ 4-5/acre. y Verticillium lecanii (2 × 108 cfu/g) @ 3g/lit + 1ml Milk + 1ml sticker or NSKE 5% + sticker can be taken up as second spray. y Predators: Lacewings, ladybird beetles, syrphid fly, minute pirate bug, predatory thrips, spiders, damsel bug. Parasitoid: Ceranisus menes. Tingid or lace wing bug [Stephanitis typicus] Damage symptoms: Nymphs and adults are seen in colonies on the lower surface of leaves. Due to draining of sap by the insect, numerous pin point spots develop on both surface of leaves and the areas where the insects colonize turn yellowish in colour. The symptom of damage is visible from a distance.