 to have hands-on-experience on developments and finalize the technologies and services of ICAR, which can be transferred/adopted by M/s Tigray Biotechnology Centre. Policy Initiatives: The Board has approved the Guidelines for commercialization of technologies developed under ICAR and Institutions under National Agricultural Research System for implementation by the Company. The commercialization guidelines include: Guidelines for Intellectual Property Protection and Management, Guidelines for Commercialization of Technologies, Guidelines for organizing Training Programmes, Guidelines for Consultancy and Research Projects, and Guidelines for engagement External Agency/ Consultants Implementation of commercialization guidelines: As per the commercialization guidelines, the techno- commercial assessment and expert committees were constituted to carry out techno-commercial assessment and prepare the standard terms for potential technologies of all ICAR Institutes. In line with commercialization guidelines, AgIn had organized and conducted Techno-commercial and Expert committees meeting for selected technologies of various ICAR Institutes like Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Kerala; National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal; Central Institute of Brackish Water Aquaculture, PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 137 Chennai; Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru; Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Goa; Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad and Indian Institute of Millet Research, Hyderabad. Trainings (i) Processing of applications for various training programmes abroad under various foreign governments, announced by DBT/DST etc. The Government of India against open advertisements, United Nations/International organizations, International agencies in various fields of agricultural research and education. (ii) Processing of applications for various fellowships/ scholarships announced by ICAR, HRD, foreign governments, etc for higher studies/ research / Ph.D/ Post-Doctoral Research abroad. (iii) Forwarding of applications of the scientists for foreign assignments in foreign governments and International organizations. (iv) Circulation of vacancies notified by CGIAR organizations, other International organizations/ agencies such as ADB, Work Bank, Commonwealth Secreariat, United Nations, etc. CONSULTANCIES • Dr Umesh Chander Sud, Director, IASRI, New Delhi, consultancy service for Bhutan Living Standard Survey to finalize sampling design for Living Standard Measurement Survey in Bhutan as a Sampling Expert from 23 to 28 January 2017.