 Good management implies a reasonable balance in the allocation of funds to salary costs of the scientists, supporting staff, administrative staff and for the conduct of research itself including equipment, chemicals and other consumable and non-consumable items. Maintenance cost constitutes another discreate part of the budget. The Panel may give its analysis with regard to this kind of balance with regard to different kinds of costs in the institute and make recommendations. Issues like delegation and decentralization of responsibility by the Director to scientists and other staff, management and maintainence of farm and laboratory infrastructure, upgrading of equipment, implementation of O&M reforms, as introduced by the Council, review of the recommendations made by the Management Advisory Committee and the Research Advisory Committee and action taken on them by the institute may also be examined. • Collaboration with SAUs and other research institutions: India has a large network of ICAR research institutes, and national centres, state agricultural universities, research institutions outside the ICAR system 5 and R&D units in the private sector. As research becomes advanced and inter-disciplinary in nature, further progress will be through increasing collaboration between different research centres. The Panel is expected to consider and comment on the institute's collaboration with these and suggest ways to strengthen it. • Linkages with clients/end-users: In the absence of a fully reorganized extension service, more relevant to the current needs of the farmers, the institute's linkages with the farming community, agri-business companies and NGOs have become particularly important. Training programmes for stakeholders both in the public sector and the private sector should be reviewed. So should also the publication programme in the form of extension bulletins and other forms of communications. The front-line demonstrations and collaboration with the KVKs should receive special attention. The yield gap analysis carried out by the institute may be observed, and institute's proactive role in narrowing the yield gap may be highlighted. • Human, physical and financial resources: The ICAR provides adequate resources to all its institutes. The Panel is expected to comment on the availability and efficient use of these resources. In particular, the human development programmes of the institute should be reviewed and suggestions be made for formulation of a staff development plan, identifying key areas of research that require strengthening. The discipline required in the management of financial resources should receive attention. • Planning for the future: In the fast changing world of science and technology, and as Indian agriculture faces new challenges, every institute is called upon to have a clear vision for its future and prepare itself for the new challenges and opportunities.