 yy Productivity and nutritional aspects of maize, in particular Kharif maize, and more emphasis on biotic stresses and DH development were suggested for research partnership. yy CIMMYT to allocate adequate funding to maize portion in the work plan. yy CIMMYT to submit Feedback of the Capacity building activities of ICAR Scientists. Over all, the progress made under ICAR-CIMMYT Partnership was found satisfactory. (III) International Centre for Agricultural Research in Dry Areas (ICARDA) i. Dr. Ashutosh gave an account on the 5 ongoing projects under the ICAR-ICARDA partnership on pulses, barley and wheat and climate resilient agriculture. Under the Food Legume Research Platform (FLRP), Amlaha, Madhya Pradesh, lentil was a flagship program. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 81 ii. The joint research revealed, RVL-3 lentil variety to be best performing under zero tillage even in the drought hit zones of Madhya Pradesh. He stated that about 96 lines were selected at FLRP and shared with partner institutions for evaluation in 2019/20 crop season in diverse agro-ecological conditions. iii. Two lentil varieties released, and 11 promising lines are in AICRP trials. One variety of barley was also released through this research partnership. 762 diverse genotypes from global collection of wheat durum panel was evaluated at FLRP and shared with IIWBR. In addition, 102 promising lines of grass pea, 145 lines of Kabuli chickpea, 25 lines of faba bean, 630 lines of barley and 72 lines of durum wheat lines have been shared with ICAR Institutions and SAUs. He highlighted the introduction of 4857 legume and cereal genetic materials in the country. Further, he confirmed the mapping of rice fallows of West Bengal). iv. As a measure of alternative fodder resources, 67 varieties of cacti have also been introduced. In capacity building, the highlight is that 24 students are pursuing MSc/PhD and 7 young scientists visited Morroco and Lebanon from the Indian NARS. Taking note of the progress made so far, the following activities have been suggested for 2020: yy Prioritized identification and deployment of climate-smart traits in pulses, wheat and barley yy Rice fallow mapping to be done in Assam and Tripura yy Promoting climate resilient and cost-effective technologies in the rainfed areas/rice fallows yy Strengthening partnership on fodder with ICAR-IVRI, ICAR-IGFRI and CAZRI on high biomass grass pea and spineless cactus yy Large-seeded Kabuli chickpea and early & high biomass lentil to be shared with ICAR-IIPR yy Bangladesh varieties, super-early lentil variety `Barimasur-9 to be tested in between two rice crops and Stemphylium blight resistant Barimasur-8 variety to be evaluated in the eastern Indian States. yy Dual-purpose low-toxin grasspea varieties to be promoted in relevant areas included Sunderbans.