The analyses adjusted for baseline measures by including all individuals at each timepoint linked by cluster, and outcomes were analyzed using separate generalized estimating equations to account for clustering. Adjusted analyses also included distance to the nearest town and proportion of Scheduled Tribe or Scheduled Caste households as covariates. Results of the UPAVAN impact evaluation are reported elsewhere (8). In this paper, we have presented adjusted effects on all prespecified outcomes that were statistically significant from control; these comprise the “consequences” in our cost–consequence analysis. Evaluating costs The full cost methodology is presented in the economic evaluation protocol (26) and is summarized in this section and Figure 3. Economic costs of the interventions were estimated from a program perspective (i.e., costs incurred by the implementing agencies) and a societal perspective (i.e., costs to program implementers, the government health system, and program participants). Economic costs refer to direct financial costs plus indirect costs such as value of donated items or time (opportunity) costs of participating. All direct and indirect cost types, including program and societal costs, as well as the data sources and assumptions used for calculating costs, are given in Supplemental Material Table S2. The time horizon for cost analysis was 41 mo, including a 9- mo startup period and 32-mo intervention implementation. Activities during the startup period included recruitment and training of group 2258 Haghparast-Bidgoli et al. FIGURE 3 Conceptual framework for cost analysis of UPAVAN interventions, adapted with permission from Haghparast-Bidgoli et al. (2019) (26). facilitators and their supervisors, community sensitization activities, and development of video content and PLA meeting plans. Program costs. A combination of activity-based costing (27), expenditure approach, and ingredient approaches (28) were used to estimate program costs. First, the intervention components and associated main activities were identified and defined as cost centers. Then, data on quantity and costs (or estimated value of resources, in case of donated items) were collected and allocated to these cost centers. To estimate the direct costs of designing and implementing the interventions, we collected financial cost data from all UPAVAN partner expenditure records or project accounts. For indirect costs, we identified donated items and volunteered time through interviews with all project staff and estimated their opportunity cost (value) using the current market value for donated items (28–30) and staff monthly salaries for volunteered time. Donated items were mainly video making and editing equipment used by the implementing partner. Volunteered time mainly included unpaid time contributed to the design and adaptation of intervention materials, as well as quality assurance by technical partners.