 Antibiogram of urhul flower extract at CIRG Zone of inhibition ( mm) Test compound Trial I Trial II Mean Standard antibiotics Gentamycin 8(R) 8 Kanamycin 15(1) 15 Ampicloxacilln 8(R) 8 Enrofloxacin 0(R) 0 Lincomycin 0(R) 0 Cefuroxime 10 (R) 10 Tobramycin 15 (S) 15 Amikacin 17 (S) 17 Cephadroxil 10 (R) 10 Amoxycillin 7(R) 7 Cephatrioxone 10 (R) 10 Norfloxacin 0(R) 0 Urhal-flower extract (cone/disc) Control 0 0 0 16 mg 0 0 0 8mg 0 0 0 4mg 0 0 0 2mg 0 0 0 1 mg 0 0 0 Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE characteristic of extract were studied (Table 5). Qualitative analysis of extract revealed the presence of flavonoids, glycosides, tannin, alkaloids and carbohydrates (Table 6). In-vitro antibiogram study: No zone of inhibition was observed in the disc impregnated with different concentrations of urhal extract (Fig. 1, Table 7), indicating that it has no antimicrobial effect. However, this effect may be exhibited at much higher concentration. Of the standard antimicrobial drugs, only amikacin and tobramycin were found sensitive. CONCLUSION The initial validation study using ITK (flower juice of urhul) for treatment of diarrhoea was conducted at Veterinary College, BAU, Ranchi. The use of urhul-flower juice proved effective in treatment of diarrhoea in goats. But recovery period following treatment by the ITK was more than that by the standard veterinary therapy. Further trial for cross-sectoral validation was done at Veterinary College, MASFSU Nagpur and CIRG, Makhdoom. Both studies recorded moderate degree of effectiveness of the ITK against parasitic and E.coli diarrhoea in goats. However, the juice did not reveal any antibacterial activity. Presence of flavonoids, tannins and alkaloids may be responsible for the efficacy of the ITK in diarrhoea. □ Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1589 : Treatment of diarrhoea in animals (goats and sheep) : Goat and sheep suffering from diarrhoea are treated with pojo (Litsaea anthapoly) plant. Paste is prepared by crushing the pojo plant. It is and fed to animal @ Vi cup of pojo paste daily for 3 days. Villagers believe that pojo plant has medicinal value, controls diarrhoea and prevents dehydration. This wisdom is being used for the ancient times without modification. About 40% goats suffer from diarrhoea in the village from where the ITK is reported. Out of these, 30% cases of diarrhoea are treated by the method of ITK, 5% remains untreated and 5% are treated by some other medicines. Shri Veeresh Kumar, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) : Sose, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) : Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr S. Haque, Head, Dr P. Shekhar, Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College and Dr R.P. Singh 'Ratan', BAU, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand).