 in the ratio of 1:1:2. After the seed covering, a light irrigation must be given with the help of rose can. Line sowing facilitates less incidence of damping-off disease and reduces seedling mortality. Besides this, it also has the advantages as listed here. yy Each and every seedling will be healthy, bold and uniform because each of them will get uniform light and air. yy Less seeds are required compared to the broadcasting method. yy Weed management of seed beds will be easy. yy Less amount of seed bed covering mixture will be required. yy Conservation of moisture in the root zone will be less. Hence, spread of nursery diseases will be less and slower. Mulching For better germination of seed in the nursery; moisture, oxygen and temperature are the most important factors to be considered. Therefore, to get good healthy seedlings, care must be given to the following factors: yy Mulch the seed bed immediately after seed sowing until germination. yy Mulching is important to regulate temperature, maintain moisture, protect the seeds from moving Orientation of nursery beds width (West-East) Raised nursery bed Flat nursery bed 3.0m 1.0m 30 – 50 cm March–April 2023 37 away by rain drops, suppress weed and can be used later as fertilizer after being decomposed. yy Protects against bird damage. The mulch should be removed during evening hours to avoid harmful effect of bright sun on newly emerging seedlings. Watering The nursery beds require light irrigation with the help of rose can till the seeds get germinated. Excess rainwater or irrigated water should be drained out from the field as and when it is required, otherwise plants may die due to excess water. Watering in the beds depends upon the weather condition. If temperature is high, open irrigation is applied. Thinning It is an important operation to remove weak, unhealthy, diseased, insect pests damaged and dense plants from the nursery beds keeping a distance of about 1.0 cm from plant to plant. The thinning facilitates balanced light and air to each and every plant. Weed control Weeds compete with seedlings for food, space and other essentials with the young tender seedlings. So, timely control of weeds is necessary. For weed control, manual weeding, use of cover crops, mulching and use of chemicals (weedicides) are practiced. Pre-emergence herbicides can also be sprayed soon after seed sowing to control the weeds. Stomp @ 3 ml/litre of water or should be sprayed on the nursery beds after the seed sowing and seed covering with mixture of FYM, soil and sand. Basalin or post-emergence weedicide like 2, 4-D and roundup are useful. Uprooting and packing of nursery plants After the seedlings become ready (25-30 days), 5-6 leaves should be uprooted and sent for transplanting. Care should be taken in uprooting to not damage any roots in the seedlings for early establishment and open root should not be used for transplanting. Slurry of soil+water+biofertilizers and captan/thiram is prepared.