 The nut is greyish-green with a hard, smooth and shining oleaginous pericarp enclosing a curved white kernel, covered with a thin reddish brown testa. The cashew was introduced into India by the Portuguese in the latter half of the 16th century. It grows wild along the East and West Coasts of South India, as far north as Ratnagiri on the West Coast and Mahanadi delta on the East Coast. It has become acclimatized in south India in the forest regions along West Coast. In South Kanara, it grows extensively in wild state, mixed with mango and other forest trees and shrubs, all along the hill slopes where, owing to poor soil and the exposed situation, it attains a low bush form. It is densely scattered over the low hilly regions of Goa. On East Coast it is abundant in Thanjavur, South Arcot, Chingleput, Nellore, Guntur, Godavari and Visakhapatnam districts. It is planted in Orissa near the coast and has run wild in some parts of the Mahanadi delta. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages 357 Control of insect-pests in lowland rice using Cleistanthus collinus Volume 2, page 112 Cleistanthus collinus Bengali: karlajuri; Hindi: garari, Kannada: badedarige; Tamil: nilaippalai, oduvan; Telugu: kadishe Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Cleistanthus collinus (Roxb.) Benth. & Hook. f. The active principle present in leaves is oduvin, a yellowish white crystalline glucoside. A small deciduous tree, distributed from the Deccan peninsula northwards up to the Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. The capsules (fruits) are more or less globose, 3-valved, 3-seeded, brown and shining. The seeds are globose and chestnut-brown in colour. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 359 Control of paddy leaf-folder by using bamboo shoots or sprouts Volume 2, page 112 Bamboo Assamese: bnah, kotoha; Bengali: bans, behar, katausi; Gujarati: wans; Hindi: kanta bans; Kannada: andebidiru, habbidiru; Dogri: billawar; Malayalam: Mi, mulla; Marathi: bambu, mandga; Oriya: bendo, kontobanso; Sanskrit: bahupallava vansa; Tamil: mullu-mungil, mungil; Telugu: mullabongu, mullavendru, pentiveduru. Spiny or thorny bamboo Bambusa arundinacea (Retz.) Roxb. The young sprouts are cooked as vegetable. The tender shoots are pickled or steeped in oil for direct consumption or made into curries. They promote appetite and help in digestion. The young twigs are also eaten by elephants and buffaloes. The leaves are emmenagogue, anthelmintic, astringent and febrifuge. Mixed with black pepper and common salt, they are used to check diarrhoea in cattle. They are also given to horses as a remedy for cough and cold. The leaves are reported to be palatable and are used for livestock rations in the hilly areas during the lean winter months.