 Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 57 Control of stem- borer and gall flies in rice with neem cake Neem-cakes are filled in gunny bags and immersed in irrigation channels to control stem-borer and gall flies (Nilgiri, Tamil Nadu). Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 58 Control of pests and diseases in paddy Spraying fresh cowdung extract to control bacterial leaf blight of paddy has been found very efficient; practised by 15% of farmers. Ten percent farmers follow planting Charade and Kochi twigs in rice field to control case- worm and leaf-folder effectively. Leaves incorporation to soil suppresses algal parasite.Use of dried neem leaves in paddy storage has been found effective. The practices of ploughing and sowing during 7th–9th days of sadh (June-July) and distribution,lending and sowing of seeds before Bihana hhina Yatra (June) are still forbidden in the district (Kalahandi, Orissa). Hossain and Mishra (2002) 59 Root dipping for healthy paddy seedlings Uprooted rice seedlling roots are dipped in powdered solution of groundnut-cake and neem-cake before transplantation. The solution is prepared by soaking the cakes in water overnight. Small quantity of this solution is poured in field in the irrigation channel. The seedlings so treated establish easily and are less vulnerable to pest attack for some period. The process is slightly difficult to follow, as it is laborious and time-consuming (Pondicherry). Sambandam (2000-2001) 60 Control of brown plant hopper in rice Leaf extract of Mukudda (Lasiosiphon eriocephalus) is very effective in controlling brown planthopper menace in paddy. One kg of leaves is boiled in 10 litres of water. It is filtered and diluted to a ratio of 1:10 and is then sprayed on crop, once during nursery stage and again after transplantation (Karnataka). Dinesh (1998) 61 Control of leaf- roller and paddy case-worm by bamboo shoots, kolathia, suan or wolf spider Insect pest of paddy, paddy leaf-roller and paddy case- worm can be controlled by cut pieces of bamboo shoots, kolathia (a local weed), suan (minor millet) and wolf spider (a predator) (Orissa). Parasar (1994) 62 Use of Bana plant twigs in paddy fields to control pests and diseases Peg 5-10 Bana twigs in canal area after transplanting of paddy. This protects the crop against endemic diseases and insect pests (Himachal Pradesh). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 57 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 63 Control of gundhi pest of paddy by burning To save paddy crops from gundhi bug, farmers take a discarded tyre and burn it. They drag it bicycle tyre around the field and put it on the windward side. The smoke and smell is assumed to repel the pest (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh). Maurya (1993a) 64 Control mashi in paddy Green and black mashi (aphid) insects sit on aakda (Calotropis procera) leaves.