 The process of marketing also involves services such as grading, standardization, packing, transport and storage. Indian agriculture is dominated by smallholders; about 86 per cent farm households have landholding size of less than 2 hectares. It is often argued that smallholders are constrained by lack of capital, inputs, technology and services, and access to markets, which may act as a barrier to their diversification towards high value agriculture. Smallholders though make a sizable contribution to food production; their access to markets is constrained by scale. Their marketable surplus is small, while local markets commodities are thin and sale in distant urban markets raises transportation and marketing costs. Poor efficiency in the marketing channels and inadequate marketing infrastructure are believed to be the cause of not only high and fluctuating consumer prices, but also too little of the consumer rupee reaching the farmer. Indian farmers typically depend heavily on middlemen particularly in fruits and vegetable marketing. The producers and the consumers often get a poor deal and the middlemen control the market, but do not add much value. There is also massive wastage, deterioration in quality as well as frequent mismatch between demand and supply both spatially and over time. Several changes in the operating environment of the food and agribusiness sectors contributed to rising interest in SCM. In turn, it became clear to food suppliers that market success depended on responsiveness to consumer demands. Satisfying the consumer demands can be achieved only by integrated management of the supply chain from farm to retail shelf. Many food-industry experiences demonstrate that effective, cooperative relationships between members of a supply chain can contribute to improving the efficiency of the chain, enhancing both innovation and competitiveness. The present supply chain that connects the farmers to both the organized, as well as the unorganized retail, is highly inefficient with several intermediaries and manual handling. The result is lots of wastages as much as nearly 30% and also less remuneration for the farmers. There is no supply chain integrator or channel master for the Indian retail channels. The survey is conduct by KPMG, substances the above statements. The Indian retail cannot be competitive until the supply chain is made integrated, efficient and customer centric. Market place for Agriculture Products The amended APMR Act, the major agricultural Marketing Act of the country, beingimplemented by the different states of India, now contains enabling provisions to promote contract farming, direct marketing and setting up of private markets (hitherto banned). These measures will go a long way towards providing economies of scale to the small firms in establishing direct linkage between farmers, and processors/ exporters/ retailers, etc.