 Furthermore, the vacuum environment creates negative pressure, enabling volatile substances to be released at lower temperatures, which improves the production and quality of the pyrolytic products. 7.2.1.2 Self-purging gas integration Self-Purging Gas Integration refers to a technique in microwave pyrolysis where gases (CH4, H2, CO, and CO2) generated during the pyrolysis process are utilized to maintain an inert atmosphere within the reactor [80]. This approach eliminates the need for external carrier gases like nitrogen, reducing operational costs and simplifying the process. Additionally, self-purging gas has several benefits such as cost efficiency, process simplifications, sustainability, and improved product quality. 7.2.1.3 Catalyst utilization The use of catalysts in microwave pyrolysis is an important advancement aimed at improving the efficiency and selectivity of the process. Catalysts can enhance product yields, optimize reaction pathways, and improve the quality of bio-oils, gases, and solid residues produced during pyrolysis. Mainly two methods are employed for catalysis in microwave pyrolysis in-situ and ex-situ [79]. In-situ Catalyst is mixed directly with the biomass feedstock. This allows for immediate interaction during the pyrolysis process, accelerating the decomposition of biomass and increasing the formation of desired products, like hydrogen or bio-oil. Ex-situ Catalyst is applied separately from the biomass, typically in a different reactor or stage, allowing more controlled interaction with the volatile products. This method enhances secondary reactions and improves product distribution. Table 2. Advantages, disadvantages, and challenges of conventional and fast pyrolysis technique [81-83]. Pyrolysis Type Advantages Disadvantages Challenges Conventional Pyrolysis  Catalyst-free biomass pyrolysis is a simple and theoretically cost- effective method for energy conversion.  The addition of sylvite in the pyrolysis of soybean straw negatively impacts CH₄ production. However, the H₂ content remains optimal, with the system containing 5% K₂CO₃. Additionally, the biochar yield increases with  Pyrolysis is a complex process influenced by operational conditions and secondary reactions between hot solid particles and volatiles. Consequently, the conversion efficiency of CO and H₂ during pyrolysis remains low.  As the holding  Energy consumption increases significantly when the temperature exceeds 600°C due to higher heat requirements for biomass decomposition and secondary reactions. rising temperature.  Pyrolysis is both an independent thermochemical conversion method for biomass energy and a critical stage in biomass combustion, gasification, and liquefaction. duration increased, the concentrations of H₂ and CO rose, while CH₄ concentrations declined when the holding time exceeded 20 minutes.  Biomass straw pyrolysis generates a low yield of H₂.