 Matrix ranking for the relative performance of the options with respect to each criterion was done with scoring pattern of 0–10. The criteria for scoring were efficacy, resource availability, cost of options, ease in use, yield and side effect to soil and crop. There are certain reports indicating the use of lime (calcium carbonate) along with other substances against termites in sugarcane. Thin films of gelatin solutions containing 10% calcium carbonate or 5% copper sulphate or sodium  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT silicate containing 12% calcium carbonate (lime) + 10% zinc oxide coated on wooden stakes prevented the termite attack for 2, 4, 5 years in Pakistan (Roomi, 1990). When used as an mixture with plant powder against stored maize and bean pests, it increased the effectiveness of some plant powders (Araya et al. 1996). Mineral salts ( calcium carbonate, sodium chloride) proved effective against red flour beetle, (Tribolium castaneum) (Reddy et al. 1999). In Brazil, salt mixed with insecticides proved effective against pentatomid bug, Nezara viridula, especially methamidophos 90 g a.i./ha + NaCl (0.5%), which gave excellent results (Corso and Gazzoni 1988). Salt was also included in a study for controlling cotton leaf- worm, (Spodoptera littoralis), in which it was found antifeedant and caused larval mortality (Farrag, 1991). Efficacy of bio insecticide (Delfin) against S. littoralis larvae increased with addition of sodium chloride (1%) solution (1996). Protection of wood against longhorn beetle has been reported with vaccum impregnation of 100 g/ litre sodium chloride with complete mortality of larvae within 4 weeks (Hertel, 1997). Sodium chloride as insecticide enhancer for controlling pentatomids of soyabean (with monocrotophos and methamidophos) has also been reported (Sosa-Gomez et al. 1993). Singh and Ram Kishan (1946) found 40–60% eye-buds destroyed by the termites. Agarwal (1955) estimated a loss of 2.5% in tonnage and 4.47% in sugar output. In infested plant, the outer leaves begin to dry up first. Severely damaged plants can be easily pulled out. They attack eye- buds, setts, shoots and the cane stalks during pre- monsoon months. The work on devising control measures against termites appears to have been initiated in 1934 mostly with plant products, wood preservatives, sanitary fluids, proprietary products, and inorganic and other pesticides. Soaking of setts for 24 hours in lime and lead arsenate in 10:1 ratio has been reported by Agarwal and Siddiqi (1964) for the management of this pest. Experiment On-farm validation trials were laid out at village Dohna of Bareilly district with October planting of sugarcane. Further trials were also laid out with February planting of sugarcane. Four trials, one at Dabhora and three at Manda village of Bareilly district were laid out with pre- sowing treatments of lime and salt (ITK), salt alone, and phorate as chemical control measure. At Hareli village of Shahjehanpur district, trial Fig. 1.