 Goat keepers from AICRP adopted villages won the Breed Saviour Awards sponsored by the National Biodiversity Authority for Osmanabadi Improvement in Goat Production for Sustainable Rural Livelihood 44 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR and Malabari Goats. The technological interventions significantly improved survival rates with significant reduction in morbidity and restricting mortality below 10%. The AICRP units have created Awareness among goat keepers about how to increase their incomes from goat rearing by improving management at low cost, knowing weights of sale kids and using this knowledge to bargain with traders purchasing kids. The Socio-economic studies revealed that in the Ganjam district of Odisha, the goat is a primary source of income of tribes (Gola). The goat rearing contributed 61.5% of their annual income. 3.2. ICAR Technologies for Profitable Goat-based Enterprise Goat husbandry in India is recognized as an instrument for social and economic transformation of rural India and has developed into a vibrant sustainable eco-friendly enterprise from resource poor occupation. The CIRG has developed a number of pro farmer’s packages of practices and commercially viable technologies for goat improvement in the country. The institute has provided a platform for the enterprisers in different areas by developing commercial valued technologies such as- Diagnostic kits (Brucellosis, Johne’s disease, Parasitic diseases); herbal products suiting to the organic farming (antistress formulation, anthelminitic bolus, immunomodulatory bolus, acaricidal liquid/spray); goat production technologies (artificial insemination techniques, area specific mineral mixture, economical feed formulation, intra vaginal pessaries for oestrus synchronization in goats, Pelleted complete feed, specialized goat feeder and waterer); and goat value added products (Goat meat Pickle, Goat meat Nuggets, Herbal Goat meat Nuggets, Goat meat Sausage, Goat meat Patties, Meat Shami Kebab, Meat Murukku, Meat Nimkee, Meat/Milk Biscuits). 3.3. Goat Milk and Meat Constitution Goat milk has better digestibility, better nutrition as it contains more whey proteins. It has better amino acid profile (essential amino acids: higher in threonine, isoleucine, lysine, cysteine, tyrosine, valine). Goat milk is rich in fats: high in C4, C6, C8, C10, C12, C14 (MCT) and 62% higher CLA than cow milk. Smaller fat globule size of goat milk results in higher absorption. Moreover, it is useful in mal-absorption syndromes, hyperlipoproteinemia, intestinal resection, infant malnutrition, premature infant feeding because of their ability to provide instant energy. It has about 4-5 times higher oligosaccharide content than cow’s milk and has prebiotic and anti-infective properties. It has higher Ca, P, Mg, Fe and Cu than cow’s milk; bioavailability is better and adequate, vitamin A, niacin, pantothenic acid, riboflavin indicate its better nutritive value.