 Joint Educational programmes with general universities/IITs/Central Universities: Faculty movement and exchange of benefits of experience and expertise in teaching and joint research guidance in critical and emerging areas will be facilitated under the project. 2.7.2.3.2.4. Agripreneurs on Faculty: There are several successful workers in private sector (agripreneurs, progressive farmers, producers etc.) with proven records. A mechanism to invite such agripreneurs and progressive farmers to deliver lectures or have interface with students and faculty for skill enhancement in specific areas is proposed. 2.7.2.3.2.5. International Centers for Faculty Development: In order to have faculty capacity development of SAARC, ASEAN and Afro-Asian countries and regional cooperation in agricultural education, International Centers for Faculty Development will be established at IARI, IVRI, CIFE and NAARM. 2.7.2.4. Enhancing reach and effectiveness of agricultural education to farmers, rural women and agribusiness 2.7.2.4.1. Non-formal Education: The practitioners of agriculture need continuous updated information on technology, policy, markets and various schemes and programs of the Government. In this direction, development of RLOs, capacity building for RLO content development, online and off line delivery of information involving regional stations and KVKs of the state agricultural Universities and the facilities developed under the National Knowledge Network will help to reach more number of practitioners. It is time that tailor made vocational programs are developed for the benefit of different stakeholders. 21 In order to empower the farmers, rural youth and farm women with knowledge on agriculture and allied sciences, Open and Distance learning (ODL) mode can be successfully utilized. Need based diplomas and certificate courses will be developed and implemented through ODL. Different stakeholders of agriculture such as farmers, trainers, development department officials, extension agents, input dealers, financial institutions and persons working in agribusiness sector can be targeted for the ODL by the SAUs. E-learning facilities at the universities would be augmented and the facilities developed under the National Knowledge Network and other such programmes of the central and state governments would be utilized. 2.8. Legal framework This will be an integral part of a Centrally sponsored XII Plan scheme “Development and strengthening of higher agricultural education in India” impleted at the Education Division, ICAR, New Delhi. 2.9. Environmental impact assessment Not applicable because of the nature of scheme. 2.10. On-going initiatives The current ongoing programmes of the ICAR and their status is as follows are- • Accreditation of AUs: The comprehensive Accreditation mechanism to regulate quality of agricultural education in the country was put in place in 1996.