com Indian Farming January 2022 6 Herbicide resistance in Rumex dentatus A threat to sustainable wheat production in north-western India Sachin Dhanda, Simerjeet Kaur and Ankur Chaudhary* Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana, Punjab 141 004 Herbicide resistance in weeds is becoming a major challenge in Indian agriculture which is an alarming signal for sustainable crop production. Earlier herbicide resistance was confined to Phalaris minor only in wheat crop but now there are some reports of resistance in Rumex dentatus to metsulfuron methyl in Haryana and Punjab. To confirm this, a study was conducted at Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana during 2018-19 and 2019-20. This study showed that resistance has evolved in Rumex dentatus against metsulfuron methyl in many rice-wheat growing regions of Haryana and Punjab. This first report of resistance from Punjab indicates the spread of resistance in R. dentatus. Therefore, an integrated approach is required to control this resistance problem in R. dentatus. Keywords: Herbicide resistance, Rumex dentatus, Wheat, Weeds Indian Farming 72(1): 06–08; January 2022 W HEAT is an important staple food crop of India. Punjab and Haryana are the major wheat growing states of India as both share common agro climatic conditions, good availability of natural resources such as inherent fertile soil and adequate availability of water for irrigation. Weeds are the major concern that reduce the potential productivity of the wheat crop. Resistance issues in North-West India Herbicides are recognized as the major tool for weed management along with other cultural and mechanical measures. But accelerated selection pressure associated with over reliance on herbicides with similar mode of action has led to increase in cases of herbicide resistance. Rumex dentatus is the dominant broadleaf weed of rabi season particularly in rice-wheat cropping system in Punjab and Haryana. Wheat crop is more prone to R. dentatus competition as compared to Phalaris minor because of its high biomass and superior growth than wheat. R. dentatus leads to 2-70% yield loss in wheat grain yield when its density increased from 5 plants/m2 to 30 plants/m2. Metsulfuron methyl herbicide has Rumex dentatus biotype with graded doses of metsulfuron methyl. Indian Farming January 2022 7 been used for controlling the R. dentatus in wheat crop since 1998. Due to its continuous use, it has shown resistance against metsulfuron. Earlier in India, herbicide resistance was confined to only P. minor in wheat against photosystem II (PS II) inhibitors (isoproturon), ACCase inhibitors (diclofop-methyl, pinoxaden, clodinafop-propargyl, fenoxaprop-P-ethyl), ALS inhibitors (mesosulfuron-methyl, sulfosulfuron, iodosulfuron-methyl-sodium, Locations for resistant Rumex dentatus biotypes collected from Haryana. Locations for resistant Rumex dentatus biotypes collected from Punjab mesosulfuron-methyl, pyroxsulam).