 Results of clinical study Clinical diagnosis Treatment Outcome Pneumonic pasteurellosis Enrofloxacin, Avil, Paracetamol + paste of kala jeera X 3 days Recovered after 3 days Pneumonic pasteurellosis Terramycin, Avil, Paracetamol + paste of kala jeera × 3 days Recovered after 3 days Pneumonic pasteurellosis Enrofloxacin, no kala jeera paste Recovered after 5 days Pneumonic pasteurellosis Enrofloxacin, Avil, Paracetamol × 5 days, no kala jeera paste Died Pneumonic pasteurellosis Terramycin + kala jeera paste × 2 days Recovered after 3 days  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY complete off fed. CONCLUSION In-vitro antibiogram study and limited clinical trial showed that the application of paste of kala jeera (Veronina anthelmintica) on swelled throat area in haemorrhagic septicaemia in cattle and buffaloes act as adjunct therapy along with conventionally antibacterial therapy.  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1966 Title of the ITK : Use of bhangariya (Eclipta alba) to cure blain in animals Description of the ITK : To cure the animals from blain, farmers of Sonapur village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh use paste of bhangariya. About 200-250 g of bhangariya plant (leaf and stem) is collected from the field and washed before crushing. The paste is fried in 50-60 ml mustard oil. The fried paste is divided into three parts which are used in 3 days after changing the old doses. By this practice, 80-90% of the problem is controlled for cattle, buffaloes and goats. Out of 1200 farmers, 400-500 farmers follow this practice. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh, S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Village Sonapur, P.O.: Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 Location of use of the ITK : Sonapur, Johanaganj, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 Geographical indicators : Botanical name: Eclipta alba English name : Bhringaraj Family : Asteraceae Bhringaraj is an annual herb. It is a hardy crop and can be grown in any type of soil. The plant prefers warm climate with a temperature range of 25-35ºC. Bhringaraj contains alkaloid ecliptene. It also contains nicotine and resin. The plant is considered as an astringent and is used for cure of many diseases. Decoction of leaves is used in treatment of hemorrhages. Experimenter : Dr C.R.Jangde, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagpur (Maharashtra) METHODOLOGY Location The field study was done in Gondiya, Amarawati, Bhandara, Cochiroli, Akola, Chandrapur districts of Vidarbha region in Maharashtra. PRA and field study Survey on the knowledge about the use of bhangariya in animals was initiated using questionnaire for amongst cattle owners and the farmers. Experiment The plant bhangariya was collected from some  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY possible sources and its paste was fried with mustard oil for application on inflammatory swelling in animals.