 Village can be sustainable with healthy food consumption and environment friendly agriculture which was concept of ecological regenerative agriculture (Annamalai 2015). Gandhiji always stressed upon simple living with limited use of the resources as per our needs. National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) focuses mainly on conservation agriculture to make farm sector more productive, sustainable, remunerative and climate resilient by promoting location specific integrated/composite farming systems; soil and moisture conservation measures; comprehensive soil health management and mainstreaming rainfed technologies. Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojana was launched on 1 July 2015 with the motto ‘Har Khet Ko Paani’ has led to augmentation of decentralized irrigation plan development, water sources development and efficient system of irrigation distribution network and farm level applications. There is immense cognizance of the adverse impacts of the indiscriminate use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides on human health and environment. Gandhiji exhorted to give up chemical fertilizers and pesticides and substitute them with bio-manures and bio-pesticides. The Government of India has been striving to promote organic farming under the Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana since 2015-16. Jaivik Kheti Portal will strengthen the online national organic products market. Gandhiji’s sustainable rural development can be achieved through Sarvodaya plan which focuses on agricultural and allied activities for holistic development of rural communities 191 Gandhian Philosophy of Sustainable Agriculture: Path Ahead by integrating social values in economic process. Sarvodaya plan basically consists of (a) economic equality and communal harmony (b) full attention to farmers and farming associates (c) all farmers having their committees (d) simple and compatible education for all (basic and technical) (e) hand spinning at every family as part of Khadi industry (Sharma and Shikha, 2016). Gandhiji’s remarked on unemployment in rural India through his words “Mechanization is good when the hands are too few for the work intended to be accomplished. It is an evil when there are more hands than required for the work, as is the case in India.” To contain a serious problem like rural unemployment, he advised for agricultural and allied activities such as village industries or cottage industries or cooperative societies because of labour intensive and capital saving in populated country like India for self-reliance (Gandhi 1934). In the wake of COVID-19 pandemic, the Honourable Prime Minister of India announced “Atmanirbhar Bharat” (Self-reliant Indian Mission) to achieve economic self-reliance and to boost local industries and products which in turn would help in uplifting the rural poor. PM’s announcement of self-reliant India is in resonance with Gandhian philosophy of Swadeshi , self- sufficiency and Swaraj.