 Indian agri R&D system has evolved a number of crop and livestock management practices to cope with abiotic stresses induced by climate variability, but climate change impacts continue to remain a major challenge to both policy makers and farmers. Government of India through ICAR, initiated a large network project called National Innovation on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) a decade ago involving major R&D institutes of ICAR dealing with natural resource management, crops, horticulture, livestock and fisheries. The project aims at not only developing climate resilient technologies but also demonstrate them on farmers’ fields in most vulnerable districts across the country. The project also has a strong component on farmer’s capacity building through Krishi Vignan Kendras (KVKs). The project has resulted in developing and refining a number of technologies like climate resilient crop cultivars, soil carbon improvement and carbon sequestration through agroforestry, water saving agronomic practices, and improved feeding protocols for livestock and poultry to minimize heat stress impacts. Keywords: Climate change, Natural resources, NICRA, Resource management C LIMATE change is a global phenomenon. As per the 6th Assessment Report by IPCC (AR-6), Climate change concerns are increasing at faster pace than expected, making the global food production at risk. South Asian countries, including India, is highly vulnerable to changing climates, as majority of the population depend on agriculture. In India, more than half the cultivated area is rain dependent and 86% of farmers are small and marginal, with land holding less than 2 ha. Agriculture is the only sector that has contributed to positive growth in the COVID-19 pandemic with a growth of 3.4% that resulted in an increase in its share in gross domestic product (GDP) to 19.9% in 2020–21 from 17.8% in 2019–20 with about 50% of workforce engaged in this sector. Over the past two decades the country is experiencing frequent extreme weather events like drought, flood, cyclones, heat wave, cold wave, making Indian agriculture highly risk prone. Agricultural sector is likely to be one of the worst affected directly in terms of crop yields, water availability and indirectly through changes in pest and pathogen incidence. Studies showed that the consequences future climate changes could be more severe affecting the livelihood security of farmers in the country. National Mission on Sustainable Agriculture (NMSA) The Prime Ministers’ National Action Plan on Climate Change (NAPCC) was initiated in 2008. It outlines a national strategy that aims to enable the country to adapt to climate change and enhance the ecological sustainability of India’s development path. It stresses that maintaining a high growth rate is essential for increasing living standards of the vast majority of people of India and reducing their vulnerability to the impacts of climate change.