 CONCLUSION Contour orchard farming and proper terracing is the pre- requisite of the steep-slope orchard raising, as has been tried by the discloser. To mitigate the water stress and soil erosion condition due to steep slopes, management of the slopes through vegetative structures is essential. This intervention of the farmers helps in developing the ecologically and economically sustainable land- management system.  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT Code : 1328 Title of the ITK : Control of soil erosion through agronomic practices Description of the ITK : Farmers of Bahadurpur village of Dhanbad district in Jharkhand use to practice some simple measures to check soil erosion, such as: (a) deep ploughing in summer, (b) ploughing across the slope, (c) composting the land before rainy season, (d) filling the cracked land by ash (wood), (e) cultivation of deep-rooted crops, (f) cover crops, mulching, and (g) plugging of gullies by stone, bricks and mud. The impact of these practices are very effective to control soil and water erosion and to protect fertility of the soil. Total cost of these practices is around Rs 3,000 per ha. This is in practice for last several years by 50% farmers in the village. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Siromani Singh Choudhary, Village Bahadurpur, Post Bagsuma, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Bahadurpur, Post Bagsuma, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr. S. Choubey, Sr. Assistant Professor, Department of Agronomy and Dr. R.P. Singh `Ratan', Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Bahadurpur, Post Bagsuma, Block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) PRA and field study The reported practices were assessed through field study using PRA tools to control different types of erosions. Parameters/factors included deep summer ploughing (a), ploughing across the slope (b), composting the land before rainy season (c), filling the cracked land by wood ash (d), cover crops (e), mulching (f) and plugging the gully with stones or brick and mud (g) in controlling different types of erosions, viz., splash, sheet, rill and gully. For validation of the ITK, 20 respondents were randomly selected, who were users of the Control of different types of soil erosion (splash, sheet, rill, and gully) through agronomic practices practices. Experiment A field experiment was conducted in randomized block design (RBD) during kharif  SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT season 2003 in village Bahadurpur, block Govindpur, Dhanbad (Jharkhand) having five treatments, viz., T1- Control, T2-Use of cover crop, T3-Mulching by plant leaves, T4-Terracing and bunding of land and T5- Plugging the gully with stone and cement. Each treatment was replicated 10 times in an area of 1000 m2 for each treatment. As cover crop moongbean (variety- Sunaina) was sown with a seed rate of 30 kg/ha.