 As a corollary to the lessons learnt during the drought, research in technology for growing crops under water stress conditions has been given greater importance particularly in wheat, rice, maize, sorghum, bajra, pulses and minor millets. Besides this, new hybrids have been developed in rice, maize, sorghum and bajra. The emphasis on increasing the production of oilseeds and pulses continues in government policy, and research is paying special attention to development of hybrid varieties particularly in rapeseed–mustard. Integrated pest and disease management has been given high emphasis, and a number of new technologies have been developed in this area during the year for effective control of pest and diseases. Bio-control method is one of the components of this approach. Research in the area of cotton has resulted in the development of ready-to-use kits to differentiate Bt- cotton from non-transgenics. Among the ICAR’s research projects in the frontier area of structural genomics is the project on high-quality sequencing of rice genomics taken up in collaboration with the International Rice Genome Sequencing Project (IRGSP). The first phase of this project has been completed. To provide a viable base for the development of livestock research in animal sciences, the ICAR has paid special attention to the conservation of genetic resources, on priority particularly to those resources that need to be conserved before some of the threatened breeds become extinct. Accordingly, a DNA repository for Indian livestock and poultry breeds has been established. Since economic losses due to livestock diseases are generally seen to be enormous in scale, efforts are being made to reduce them through better diagnostic vaccines and drugs, including indigenous drugs. Livestock disease- based eco-pathozones have been established to study the epidemiology of animal diseases. Due to persistent efforts, India has been now declared free from rinderpest. A C-ELISA kit for rinderpest detection has been developed. Complete feed blocks useful in animal feeding have been developed for use during fodder scarcity, in order to insulate the livestock against the effect of drought. Programmes on value addition for milk, meat, egg and fibre have also been strengthened. The Horticulture Revolution that has spread with uniform intensity throughout the country is expected to change grey areas into green. Hybrid technology in vegetables like tomato, brinjal, chilli, cucumber, bitter-gourd, bottle-gourd and okra is making a visible dent in accelerating the productivity of vegetable crops. Production technology of a new kind of mushroom has been developed. In addition, technology for the production and utilization of medicinal plants is getting popularity in the country.