 Larger fruits take 2–4 days longer to ripen than smaller ones, therefore, it is best to avoid packaging of smaller fruits with larger ones in order to achieve uniform ripening. Fruits that are immature, overripe, harmed, or sick should be thrown away. On the basis of weight, AGMARK classified mango in 4 grades, i.e. A (100–200 g), B (201–350 g), C (351–550 g) and D (551–800 g). Freshly plucked mango with pedicle Desapping in mangos by inverting over tray/ wire mesh Cutting of pedicle with scissor Pre-ripening, mango fruit sanitization with chlorine Fruit sap Dipping in sodium hypochlorite solution (100 ppm) for 2–3 min After sanitization, draining excess water Indian Farming 4 April 2023 Hot water treatment (HWT) HWT is the technique in which green mature fruits are dipped in hot water (52–55°C) for 5–10 min so that egg and larvae present on mango surface get killed. Anthracnose and stem end rot are the major post- harvest disease of mango. But these diseases can not be identified in the green stage of mango and can only be seen when fruit is ripened. HWT can be successfully employed to reduce the incidence of these post-harvest diseases. Additionally, it has several benefits such as it cleans mango surface carrying plant exudates, easy to use for of India (FSSAI) approved the natural waxes like; Candelilla wax, beeswax and carnauba wax that can be applied to a fruit surface by using roller brushes, wax applicator or by hand. Sometimes, wax is applied along with fungicide. Ripening The process by which fruit attains their desirable flavour, quality, colour, palatable nature and other textural properties is known as ripening. Mango possesses the hard texture, high acidity, low soluble solids and poor eating quality when it is in a mature green harvest stage. As ripening starts, various changes in the composition start to begin such as hydrolysis of starch into sugar (detected by starch-iodine test), increase in total soluble solids, decrease in acidity, degradation of chlorophyll and synthesis of carotenoids and softening of texture that ultimately results in increases of its consumer acceptability. In starch-iodine test, as the ripening starts, starch content of fruit gets converted into sugar and dark iodine staining (code-1) changes towards lighter staining (code-6). The best temperature for ripening is 19–23°C and humidity above 90%. There are various methods for the post-harvest ripening of mango such as use of calcium carbide, ethylene gas and by giving ethephon (2-Chloroehtyl phosphonic acid) treatment. Use of calcium carbide (also known as masala) is banned in India as the traces of phosphorus and arsenic were known to cause harmful effect on human health. Additionally, it gives poor flavour and fruit quality. Ethylene gas is widely acceptable Rotting in mango fruit horticultural industries, and short time treatment.