 To control crab menace, soak seeds of imli (Tamarindus indica) in water for 24 hours and feed these to crabs. This is observed that the seed gets firmly lodged in crabs mouth and this causes death within a day or two. This practice has been in use for the last 30 years. Broadcast tamarind seeds on bunds and hedges of the field also. Approximately 800 g to one kg seeds are required for one hectare of paddy (Valsad, Gujarat). Patel (1994f) 42 Rat control by use of Ipomoea Leaves of Ipomoea fistulosa are boiled in water and filtered. Sorghum grains are boiled in this extract and placed near the rat burrows. It is believed that rats die after eating it (Zalawad). Ramgopal (1996b) 43 Controlling crabs in paddy by using flower of Butea After first rain, the she-crab brings along young ones and leaves them in shallow waters in the farm. Crabs damage the crop more in the initial days of the monsoon after transplantation. They snip off stem near the surface of the ground. They also make multiple holes in small earthen bunds of the plots. The bunds may breach and water may not stay in plots. Gamil (1998) 54 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference The flowers of khakhra (Butea monosperma) are crushed and allowed to dry. The crab-holes in bunds are covered and blocked by the flower powder. Results can be seen with in 12–24 hrs (Valsad, Gujarat). 44 Combating the menace of birds and monkeys Birds and monkeys are commonly found vertibrate pests which cause tremendous damage to some ripening crops and fruits. Most bird species are protected by law and monkeys can also not be killed due to religious sentiments. Alternatively the practice of driving them away by beating drums and using well trained dogs has been used since long. Locust swarms are also warded off by beating drums (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 45 Sling and karban for scaring birds and stray animals In wet temperate zones, sling (gulel) and karban are commonly used for scaring birds and stray animals for protecting maize, fruits and vegetables (wet Himalayan regions, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 46 Treating seeds with celerodendrum leaves Sorghum seeds are treated with Arani (Celerodendrum multiflorum) leaves prior to to deter stray animals planting. Arani leaves are believed to be highly toxic, killing animals almost immediately upon consumption. Farmers also use this practice to control smut disease but, of course, do not use this in fields near homes, where their own cattle, may enter (Kheda, Gujarat). Solanki (1993) 47 Seed treatment with eucalyptus seed extracts to control pest and disease Avare and pigeonpea seeds when treated with eucalyptus seed extracts prevent damage by insects and soil-borne pathogens as pheonol in eucalyptus seed act as insect repellent and antifungal agent (Karnataka).