 Greenhouse gases like CH4 and N2O have a much higher radiative impact than CO2, exacerbating global warming. Changing climate conditions impose various abiotic stresses on medicinal plants, affecting their growth and secondary metabolism. The response of medicinal plants to stress varies depending on the species, growth stage and environmental conditions, making it challenging to define an optimum stress condition for quality produce. This article describes the impact of climate change on physiology of medicinal and aromatic plants. T HE medicinal plants are being exploited for being rich resources of ingredients used in drug development and synthesis. Apart from that, several plants are recommended for their therapeutic use as important source of nutrition. They contribute to our health care and provide livelihood to tribal and rural people. Global warming is an increase in average temperature of the earth structure. The climate is the primary determinant of agricultural productivity and therefore, in a developing country like India, change in the components of the climate responsible for the global warming is an issue of great concern. The impact of climate change is noticed in the form of changed seasonal patterns, weather events, temperature range and other related phenomena worldwide. Increase in carbon dioxide gas; a significant greenhouse gas, along with other greenhouse gases during last 100 years as a result of burning coal and oil at homes, factories, and transportation is witnessed. The global warming periods can be divided in to two main periods of warming, between 1910 and 1945 and from 1976 onwards. The Inter-governmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) observed that anthropogenic activities such as fossil fuel burning and deforestation led to increased concentrations of greenhouse gases since the middle of the 20th century causing increase in average temperature. Comparing to the past, this addition of greenhouses gases caused the earth to warm more quickly and there is clear evidence that the earth’s climate is warming at an unprecedented rate. Mild stress conditions may stimulate secondary metabolite production without significant harm to biomass yield in some medicinal plants but, a severe and a prolonged stress condition always imposes negative impact on the primary as well as the secondary metabolism resulting in a compromised biological yield with poor quality. Climate change can also impact pests and diseases in medicinal plants, affecting the well-being of communities relying on them for cultivation and medicine production. Future research should focus on physiological responses to specific and a defined level of stress, at a particular stage of the growth and drawing a correlation with productivity and quality of a particular medicinal plant. Role of agriculture in climate change Agriculture contributes to greenhouse gas emissions however; the quantum of emission varies with individual greenhouse gas and the location.