 Oxygen is then released into the atmosphere, a crucial factor in preserving our planet’s habitability. Plants do not need soil to photosynthesize. They need the soil to supply them with water and nutrients. When nutrients are dissolved in water they can be applied directly to the plant’s root system by flooding, misting, or immersion. Hydroponic innovations have proven that direct exposure to nutrient-filled water can be a more effective and versatile method of growth than traditional irrigation. Hydroponic systems can be either active or passive. Active means that nutrient solutions will be moved, usually by a pump. Passive relies on a wick or the anchor of the growing media. Hydroponic systems are also characterized as recovery or non- recovery. Recovery means the nutrient solution will be reused into the system while as, with non-recovery, the nutrient solution is applied to the growing media, and vanishes. Components of a hydroponic system To maintain a flourishing hydroponic system, one needs to become acquainted with a few components that make hydroponics run efficiently as shown in figure. Hydroponic plants are often grown in inert media that support the plant’s weight and anchor its root structure. Growing media is the substitute for soil; however, it does not provide any independent nutrition to the plant. Instead, this porous media retains moisture and nutrients from the nutrient solution which it then delivers to the plant. Many growing media are also pH-neutral, so they will not upset the balance of the nutrient solution. There are several types of growing media such as gravel, vermiculite, rockwool, peat moss, saw dust, coir dust, coconut fibre, etc. and the specific plant and hydroponic system will dictate which media best suits your endeavour. Plants that are submerged in water can quickly drown if the water is not sufficiently aerated. Air stones disperse tiny bubbles of dissolved oxygen throughout your nutrient solution reservoir. These bubbles also help evenly distribute the dissolved nutrients in the solution. Air stones do not generate oxygen on their own. They need to be attached to an external air pump. Net pots are mesh planters that hold hydroponic plants. The latticed material allows roots to grow out of the sides and bottom of the pot, giving greater exposure to oxygen and nutrients. Net pots also provide superior drainage compared to traditional clay or plastic pots. Types of hydroponics There are 6 main types of hydroponic system. In fact, the plant roots need three things, water/moisture, nutrients, and oxygen. So, viz. what differs in the 6 methods is the way the systems delivers these three important things to plant roots. Of course, there are lots of variations with different types but they all belong to these 6 core types of Hydroponic systems: Wick system: Wick system exploits the capillary action of water to draw up water and nutrients from a reservoir to the plants.