 Pearl millet, sorghum, maize, barley, cowpea, clusterbean and field beans are ideally suited for drylands. Stay green types of these crops can also be utilized for forage after maturity of grains. Weed control: Weeds should be checked from the very beginning through pre-emergence use of herbicides, clean and pure seeds, and inter cultivation practices to save the moisture and nutrients for crop plants only. Mulching: Different types of mulches viz., live mulch, dust mulch could be used to conserve moisture in the soil especially in widely spaced row crops. Farm mechanization: Timely sowing, precise seed and fertilizer placement in the moist soil zone is crucial for successful crop establishment in rainfed regions. Since the sowing is to be completed in a short period of time, appropriate farm implements are necessary to cover a long land area before the seed zone dries. Farm mechanization ensures agricultural operations will be precise, time saving and cost effective. The important crop management practices of forage crops under rainfed conditions are given in Table 1. Specific crop production techniques for rainfed conditions Double cropping: In normal rainfall years, on medium deep soils, double cropping gives higher returns. In areas receiving more than 800 mm annual rainfall and soil moisture storage of 200 mm/m, double cropping is feasible. The most productive and remunerative double crop food-fodder sequences for forage are sorghum- gram, groundnut-wheat, sunflower-gram and sorghum- soybean. Intercropping: Intercropping is recommended in areas receiving 650-750 mm annual rainfall. In such areas, at least one of the component crops succeeds in producing economic yields; even during droughts or other adverse climatic abiotic or biotic extremes. In high rainfall areas, there are greater chances of success of both the component crops and the returns are higher than for a sole crop. Low rainfall years (early during withdrawal of monsoon), winter crops in sequence often fail and intercropping is more profitable over sole cropping. Multiple cropping, which involves growing 3 to 4 appropriate annual forage crops as sole crops in mixed stands (graminaceous and leguminous) in a calendar year, significantly improves herbage quality and enhances forage productivity per unit area. One of its key benefits is the long-term maintenance of soil fertility due to the addition of root organic matter. The success of this system depends on various factors, including agro- climatic conditions, crop and soil management practices, and input availability. By selecting appropriate crops/ varieties and adopting scattered sowing and harvesting schedules, regular supply of quality forage could be ensured. Food and fodder crops are also grown on same piece of land. Leucaena + Trispecific hybrid + pigeonpea Ratooning for food-fodder production: Ratooning for green fodder can be done in maize, sorghum, pearl millet.