 The total storage was increased from 293 TB to 2006 TB, Total cores have been increased from 1138 to 1761, RAM has been increased from 5087 GB to 7107 GB and the physical nodes have been increased from 15 to 19. yy WIAYFS (Weather Indices based Automated Yield Forecasting System): A WIAYFS web tool was developed. Stepwise regression model based on weather variables in this model along with other models such as ARIMAX, LASSO regression, Bayesian Regression model and Random Forest technique have been implemented in this webtool. The URL for webtool : http://wiayfs. icar.gov.in/wiayfs yy Infographics/Dashboard KRISHI Portal: Developed (i) framework for graphical and table display on dashboard for data status for publications, technologies, video, audio, mobile apps, geo-metadata, copyrights, patents, registered varieties and varieties developed available in open access. The module of exporting all details of Dashboard to CSV file was developed; (ii) User Profile for each of Scientists consisting of information on publications along with NAAS score, technologies, varieties developed and IPRs (Copyright, Patent and Registered Variety with PPVFRA); (iii) Institute Profile has also been created for each of ICAR Institutes consisting of all above fields along with Video, Audio, Mobile App, Images information submitted by the Institute along with Institute address, Web address and Social Media Address. yy ICAR Image Gallery: Workflow based application for ICAR Image Gallery was developed in spring boot CAS enabled system and deployed on server. Officer Incharge, Data Management can upload single/multiple images with delete and set thumbnail options for one image per event. The records can be filtered on the basis of SMD, Organization and keyword. Search can also be made based on Keyword, date of event and description of image. yy Module on Trademark and IPR Design: ICAR- IASRI in association with IPTM Unit, ICAR Hqrs developed a workflow based application for Trademark and Design obtained by ICAR Institutes as Part of ICAR IPR Repository. At present, information on 122 trademarks and 58 IPR design is available in this repository. yy CMS based Websites of AICRPs: Developed websites for following 02 new AICRPs with uniform formatting and contents using Content Management System and different level user authentications: (i) AICRP on Linseed: launched by Dr. TR Sharma, DDG (Crop Sciences) in the Annual Group Meeting of Safflower and Linseed organized by by ICAR-IIOR on 18 August 2021 and (ii) AICRP on Sesame and Niger. FARM WOMEN EMPOWERMENT ICAR-Central Institute for Women in Agriculture (CIWA), Bhubaneswar carries out action research programmes on diverse aspects related to women in agriculture.