 The provision of hard-topped, all-weather roads led to crop diversification, modernization of cultivation practices through the adoption of improved inputs and technologies, increased labor hiring and commercialization of farm output. Further evidence is Journal of Development Economics 152 (2021) 102686 17 Y. Shamdasani consistent with these effects operating through an increase in mobility of agricultural workers across connected village labor markets. Taken together, this evidence suggests that poorly integrated rural labor markets can serve as a substantial barrier to productive investments in agriculture. Given a strong policy interest in both the provision of infrastructure and the adoption of agricultural technologies as means towards sustain- able poverty reduction – the Central Government of India allocated USD 14 billion to the roads sector and USD 11 billion to fertilizer subsidies for rural Indian farmers in the 2016–2017 Budget43 – this suggests that there are potential gains that can arise from coupling infrastructure projects with other commonly used policy instruments such as fertilizer and irrigation subsidies.44 Further, given that treatment effects are heterogeneous across space, spatial targeting should be made an im- portant consideration when designing such policy interventions. These findings also demonstrate that the gains that accrue to agricultural households extend beyond the households targeted by the program, highlighting the importance of incorporating network effects in the design of transport policy. The Rural Access Index developed at World Bank estimates that over one billion people, 98 percent of them in developing countries, live more than 2 kilometers away from the nearest all-weather road. Improving mobility through infrastructure thus remains a key priority in economic development policy not only in India, but across many other developing countries. These findings can be used to inform an ongoing policy debate on whether costly infrastructure investments in remote areas can be justified by the benefits that accrue to agricultural households. CRediT authorship contribution statement Yogita Shamdasani: Conceptualization, Methodology, Validation, Formal analysis, Investigation, Data curation, Writing - original draft, writing - review & editing, Visualization, Supervision, Project adminis- tration. Data availability The authors do not have permission to share data. Appendix A. Supplementary data Supplementary material related to this article can be found online at https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jdeveco.2021.102686. References Aggarwal, S., 2018. Do rural roads create pathways out of poverty? Evidence from India. J. Dev. Econ. Aker, J.C., 2010. Information from markets near and far: Mobile phones and agricultural markets in Niger. Am. Econ. J. Appl. 2 (3), 46–59. Ali, R., 2011. Impact of rural road improvement on high yield variety technology adoption: Evidence from Bangladesh, Working Paper. Allen, T., Atkin, D.