 Mustard oil is a great affordable alternative of palm oil (popular to cause severe heart problems) as it contains linoleic acid (5–13%) and oleic acid (27%). Organic farming is gaining importance in the country as chemical fertilizers, pesticides, etc. are causing drastic problems like soil degradation, environmental hazards and affecting human health. Crops grown under organic management are proved to be beneficial to the human health as well as to the environment and soil. Organic system involves incorporation of organic manures, crop residues, Indian Farming 73 (07): 14-17; July 2023 bio-fertilisers, crop rotations and no use of chemical fertilisers and additives for crop cultivation. Organic manures like farm yield manure (FYM), vermi-compost and poultry manure, etc. not only contain primary nutrients like NPK but also contain micro-nutrients like copper, zinc, boron, iron, etc. and beneficial micro-organisms. As such, organic manures improve soil physical properties, reduce soil loss and ensure better crop growth. Bundelkhand, a region lying in the Central and North India split between the states of Uttar Pradesh (U.P.) and Madhya Pradesh cultivates mustard. The soil in this region is categorised as red soil and black soil with poor organic content except black cotton soil. The use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides is very low which can be substituted through organic sources. Therefore, growing of crops under organic management Bumper crop of mustard under organic management Indian Farming 15 July 2023 is most appropriate to improve soil health and crop production in Bundelkhand. Mustard being hardy crop is the most suitable oilseed crop for this region. But, the package of practices for growing organic mustard in Bundelkhand are not available. Therefore, based on the studies conducted at Organic Research Farm, Karguaji, Institute of Agricultural Sciences, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh during 2017–2021, the production technologies as developed and refined are presented here for ready reference of producers of organic mustard to ensure higher production with better quality. Refined production technologies Selection of suitable soil and land preparation: Mustard crop is capable to grow in a wide range of soil ranging from sandy loam to clay loam, but medium loamy soil with a neutral pH is most suitable for mustard. As it cannot tolerate water logging and excess soil moisture and heavy soils affects its growth. The initial success in any crop cultivation is considered if 90–100% germination is observed. This can be achieved by preparing the land well. Therefore, one ploughing by disc plough for dicing and slicing of soil should be done followed by two ploughings by cultivator and planking after each ploughing to get fine seedbed for sowing. Nutrient management through organic sources: Recommended dose of fertiliser for mustard crop in U.P.