 The Bollgard II- Roundup Ready Flex (BGII-RRF) cotton incorporating Bt as well as glyphosate-tolerant genes is developed by Monsanto. Whereas the transgenic mustard harbouring three alien genes that enable higher yields through hybridisation is developed by Delhi University’s Centre for Genetic Manipulation of Crop Plants. Both the crops have undergone all the mandated bio-safety research and open field trials. Their commercial release is yet to be made. Besides, transgenics developed by public and private institutions are ready for field trials in other crops viz, castor, rice, maize, sorghum and sugarcane. Efforts need to be continued in the development of transgenics for achieving difficult objectives of crop improvement by harnessing new science. Once the regulatory considerations are fulfilled in each case, society will derive benefits from this novel approach of crop improvement. 4.3. Diversification and value addition Currently, research efforts on the development of value-addition are gaining attention as there has been a continuous demand for such products by the consumers. India is known for its rich genetic diversity and improvement of the genetic potential and yield is the need of the hour while retaining the original key trait such as aroma, nutrition, and grain quality. Indian rice breeding is incomplete without mentioning basmati and other aromatic rice. While basmati rice has a special market in international trade earning annually to the tune of Rs 29,849 crores of foreign exchange. Aromatic short-grain rice has a niche for the domestic market; in addition, there are several types of specialty/coloured rice such as glutinous, chakuwa, joha, black, etc. in different parts of the country. Also, there is a demand for value-added products of rice such as beaten rice/poha rice in central India, puffed rice in southern and western India, Parboiled, red, and medicinal rice in Kerala, Sticky and black rice in the north eastern part of India. 4.4. Adaptation to climate change In the present scenario to overcome the effect of climate change farmers have already begun to make adaptations to deal with the effects of climate change. The most common form of adaptation made by the farmers is the use of new varieties that can withstand the effect of climate change. Other forms of adaptation include the use of water pumps, adjusting planting times, using natural pesticides, using organic fertilizers, and altering cropping patterns. Further, mitigating and adaptation strategies such as intercropping, alternate wetting and drying, precise farming, improved tillage, and integrated farming system, are needed to mitigate the negative effects of climate change. Rice cultivation significantly contributes to climate change. Efficient strategies are required to limit the methane emission from the rice field. The application of anaerobic methanotrops to oxidize the CH4 seems to be an effective approach.