 Shri KD Bhardwaj, Director, Environment and Climate Change, NPC; Dr TK Dutta, Director, ICAR-CIRB, Hisar, Haryana; Deans and Professors from SASARD, Medziphema, Veterinary College, Jalukie, Patkai Christian College, Chumukdeima, SET, Dimapur, and students participated in the event. Director ICAR-National Research Centre on Mithun Medziphema, Nagaland- 797106, India director.nrcmithun@icar.gov.in Novel Exhibition on Touch and Feel the Agriculture for Blind Students 8 May 2023, Old Goa. ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Ela, Goa organised a novel exhibition on “Touch and Feel the Agriculture” in collaboration with the National Association for Blind, Santacruz, Goa, for 35 blind students to make them touch and feel the freshness, and liveliness of the agriculture. Dr Parveen Kumar, Director, ICAR-CCARI, who is associated with the teaching and welfare activities for the blind students, has conceptualised the visit to make such special students feel the farmer’s life through ‘touch and feel’ experience. The Director and institute’s staff took the blind students through the exhibition and made them touch and feel the varieties of fruits, vegetables, animals, birds, processed products, etc., and witnessed the joy, curiosity and satisfaction on the face of these students. ICAR-CCARI, Goa takes pride in not only educating and training farmers but also to involve all segments of society as a social responsibility. ACTO (FS) ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute Ela, Goa WORKSHOP, MEETING, SEMINAR AND CONFERENCE 4 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Workshop on the Role of Design, Copyright and Trademark: Scientific and Entrepreneurial Perspective 18 May 2023, Mumbai. ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai organized a workshop on the “Role of Design, Copyright and Trademark: Scientific and Entrepreneurial Perspective” on 16 May 2023, in line with ICAR-DARE Campaign for Azadi ka Amrut Mahotsav India@75. The workshop was arranged by ITMU and ABIC of the Institute with support from the National Agriculture Innovation Fund, Intellectual Property and Technology Management Unit of ICAR, New Delhi. Dr SK Shukla, Director, CIRCOT, Mumbai Chairman of the function opined on the importance of Design, Copyright and Trademarks concerning commercialization of technologies. Dr Neeru Bhooshan, Assistant Director General (Intellectual Property & Technology Management) ICAR, New Delhi who joined virtually, praised the attributes of ICAR- CIRCOT in strengthening the IP activities of ICAR. Further, she narrated that ICAR is now substantially commercializing IP-enabled technologies. Guest speaker, Dr Ashwini Siwal, Assistant Professor, Faculty of Law, University of Delhi elaborated on different aspects of IPR such as Novelty, Non obviousness, Inventive steps and Industry applications.