 Salient achievements • Technology for round the year fodder production system for irrigated situation & perennial grassland • High density nursery for Bajra-Napier hybrid multiplication for easy multiplication of rooted slips • Fodder production through cultivation of perennial fodder crops in inter-row spaces of mango orchards • Developed 16 varieties of Leguminous Fodder Crops and 29 varieties of Grasses & Cereal Fodder Crops • Developed 6 machinery/prototypes (Grass seed harvester, Defluffing machine, Berseem Chicory seed separator, Berseem Seed Drill, evaporative cool hydroponic fodder production system and Urea treatment gadget) • National Fodder Resource Development Plan: As part of NIAFTA, State level workshops conducted for 26 states and 20 states specific Fodder resource development plan published 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Regular trainings on fodder production & utilization to state govt. officials/NGOs/Gaushalas • Distribution of Seed & planting material to farmers 51 Crop Science 51 • Weather advisory given to farmers though M-Kisan Portal • Services of Agri-Business Incubation Centre for entrepreneurship • Short videos on You tubes on fodder production & associated technologies. • Consultancy for grassland & pasture rejuvenation/development • Soil & Plant analysis • Complete Feed Block- A balance ration for livestock; Total mixed ration for goat; Feed Pellets, Area Specific Mineral mixture, Phosphate solubilizing biofertilizers suitable for fodder crops of problem soils. Seasonal fodder crops inter-planted with perennial grass has much higher fodder production round the year Defluffing machine 52 ICAR Institutes Profile 52 ICAR-Indian Institute of Soybean Research, Indore 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-IISRI, Khandwa Road, Indore (Madhya Pradesh)-452001, INDIA ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Nita Khandekar iii. Email address: director.soybean@icar.gov.in; dsrdirector@gmail.com Phone: 9448737473, +91-731-24761888 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and adaptive research on soybean for improving productivity and quality • Provide access to information, knowledge and genetic material to develop improved technology and enhanced soybean production. • Coordination of applied research to develop location specific varieties and technologies; • Dissemination of technology and capacity building Activities • Augmentation, conservation and management of soybean genetic resources in the country • Breeding for yield enhancement and associated characters, resistance/tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses and for quality enhancement of soybean • Coordination of multi-location research and breeder seed production in the country through AICRP on Soybean • Development of technologies for integrated pest and disease management.