 Resource characterization and constraint analysis including policy related issues, socio‐economic aspects, and agro inputs: • The resource use at various location use at various location in different cropping systems was not optimal. The expenditure towards labour charges was highest in most of the cropping systems which indicated the need for mechanization. Diseases, insects and weeds resulted in a loss to the tune of 15‐20%. In the NPK nutrient response experiment, the response (kg grain/kg nutrient) of NPK varied from situation to situation and from system to system viz N‐20 kg, P5‐10 kg and K 5‐10 kg. The response in high rainfall situation was more in rabi season. On‐farm testing verification and refinement of system based production technologies: • The predominant cropping such as rice‐rice may be intensified or diversified as Rice‐Rice, Rice‐vegetables and rice‐wheat systems for more remuneration. Need based diversification and/or intensification was found to be more profitable in various agro‐ecosystems. 2003‐2004 • System based production technologies for improving resource use efficiencies in different farming situations: www.icar.org.in 29 2002‐2007 • Under Arid‐ecosystem, in Hisar, pearlmillet‐potato‐greengram sequence gave higher net returns with better yield. Diversification of clusterbean‐wheat was observed to be most remunerative. In S.K.Nagar, cowpea‐mustard‐pearlmillet, rice‐onion/cowpea and pearlmillet‐wheat were predominant cropping systems. At Durgapura, clusterbean‐onion turned out to be the most profitable system. At Ludhiana, maize‐potato‐onion cropping system enhanced the productivity double than the rice‐wheat major predominant cropping system. At Kanpur, maize‐potato‐sunflower crop sequence turned out to be most profitable system. At Akola, two years crop rotation of sorghum‐chickpea, maize‐wheat, soybean‐ wheat and soybean‐sunflower was profitable. At Coimbatore, conventional method of maize sowing +pre‐emergence application of herbicide alongwith one hand weeding was the best, whereas in Karnataka at Kathalgere, maize‐sunhemp‐sunflower registered the highest productivity. In sub‐humid ecosystem at Pantnagar, rice‐vegetable pea‐greengram, rice‐ vegetable pea‐mentha was better than rice‐wheat system. At Varanasi, rice‐potato‐ greengram sequence was observed better than other crops sequence. At Jabalpur and Rewa rice based vegetable crops system was found to be most appropriate. IN Ilumid Ecosystem at Kalyani, rice potato‐jute recorded maximum yield and net returns. At Jorhat, rice‐potato‐ rice was observed to be best for net returns and total calories. In coastal ecosystem, at Karmana vegetable and cassava gave the high returns. In nutshell, the integrated nutrient management substitution of 50% RDF though organics and 100% RDF in rabi recorded higher productivity in all the ecosystem.