09 Elliot agar 8.53 8.0 7.94 8.69 8.01 Emerson YPSS agar 8.69 8.4 7.99 8.80 8.00 morels, the forest area is put ablaze, as the burnt areas are supposed to increase productivity level of morels. 3. There is a strong belief that the appearance of morels increases at places where goats and sheep flock stays overnight. At such places when the leaves of the tree fall upon flock excreta in autumn, this makes a very good humus under the snow during winters. 4. People in many places believe that one gets more fruiting bodies of morels in the morning hours of the day, probably because the morning sun penetrates deep and one is able to seethrough beneath the shrubs where the fruiting bodies usually occur. 5. People also believe that if one carries some morels along with him, he is able to collect more morels in the belief that like attracts like. 6. People believe that to collect a good number of morels, one should go covered with blanket, called challi or channi in Kinnaur. Collection of guchhi mushroom 1. It is believed that morels are collected while climbing upward. While moving downward they are not visible. 2. Their collection depends upon fate; only lucky ones can find them. 3. If once spotted, they are taken out of the soil at once, whatever be the size; other- wise, they will not increase in size and will disappear after 2–3 days. Experiment Cultural studies The mycelial colonies of Morchella spp. started appearing after 10 days. These were white, which turned brown later on. Fourteen different solid media were tried to observe the linear growth of mycelia. They include malt yeast agar, malt agar, potato dextrose agar, yeastal potato dextrose, pea extract, Czapek’s Dox agar, maize extract, coriander extract, wheat grain extract, glucose yeast agar, bread crump agar, Catino PYG  ETHNIC FOOD agar, carrot agar, Elliot agar and Emerson YPSS agar (Table 11). Morchella angusticeps showed maximum average colony diameter in Emerson YPSS agar (8.69 cm) and minimum in bread crump agar (1.30 cm), M. conica showed maximum average colony diameter in potato dextrose agar (8.5 cm) and minimum in bread crump agar (1.55 cm), M. crassipes showed maximum average colony diameter in potato dextrose agar (8.8 cm) and minimum in bread crump agar (1.50 cm). M. deliciosa gavemaximum averagecolony diameter in Emerson YPSS agar (8.80 cm) and minimum in bread crump agar (1.45 cm), and M. esculenta showed maximum average colony diameter in potato dextrose Agar (8.9 cm) and minimum in bread crump agar (2.00 cm). Four different liquid media were used to record the vegetative growth of mycelium of Morchella spp. These include glucose asparagine solution, Czapek’s solution, Dimmicks solution and Asthana and Hawker’s solution. The weight of the mycelium that was recorded is given in Table12. Morchella angusticeps showed maximum growth in Asthana and Hawker’s solution (210.60 mg) and minimum growth in Czapek’s solution (60.30 mg). M.