 These proteins are functional in 237 KEGG pathways including NOD-like receptor signaling pathway, HIF-1 signaling pathway, metabolic pathways, as well as disease pathways such as tuberculosis, malaria, and measles. Majority of identified proteins were localized in nucleus, cytoplasm and extracellular and involved in various biological process having transporter, binding and catalytic activities. CSN1S1 gene was also characterized in Jamunapari goats and its effect on milk composition traits was observed. Genetic parameter estimates were obtained from 518 records from 48 sires and 131 dams with a pedigree covering over 3 generations. Milk protein variability at protein and DNA level was carried out by SDS-PAGE and PCR-RFLP. The A, B and F alleles were observed in the analyzed population with the allelic frequencies were 0.4566, 0.503 and 0.041, respectively. The direct heritability for protein%, SNF% and lactose% was 0.441, 0.294 and 0.326, respectively. The genotyping presented αs1 (CSN1S1), αs2 (CSN1S2), β-casein (CSN2), κ-casein (CSN3) and whey protein β- LG and α-LA as observed in individual samples in different breeds and indicated the presence or absence of certain genetic variants in different individuals. Molecular basis of Peste-des- Petits Ruminants virus (PPRV) mediated host immune modulation for the development of next generation vaccine: Study was undertaken to understand pathophysiology of PPRV and its role in host immunosuppression The complete genome of PPRV was amplified in fragments and cloned in pJET1.2/blunt vector. The Luciferase promoter assay showed that expression of PPRV coded C and V proteins caused suppression of ISRE containing promoter indicating their immunosuppressive nature. In total 12,688 Various Milk composition traits for different Indian breeds. PCR amplification of full-length milk casein genes CSN1S1, CSN1S2 and CSN2. Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 36 genes were found to be differentially expressed. Of these 684 genes were differentially expressed at significant level, among which 574 were up-regulated in expression while 110 were down-regulated. Identified putative 37 up- regulated and 13 down-regulated genes were found to be associated with innate immune response pathway. A mouse model for PPRV infection was established to study disease pathogenesis mechanistically. The genetically defective mice, developed for interferon response served as an excellent in vivo animal model for investigating PPRV pathogenesis. Replicating virus and its antigens were detected in most of the critical organs of infected mice. Innate immune cells such as neutrophils and macrophages likely transported the replicating virus to the central nervous system to cause encephalitis. This established and employed a laboratory animal model for investigating PPRV pathogenesis and protective role of CD8+ T cells of immune system.