 There are many downy mildew species capable of spore germination by the creation of a germ tube that enters in the host. Some species also germinate by zoospores. However, some downy mildew species cannot handle the cool weather and so are reintroduced to another area for another infection to occur. within the vessels, and produces microconidia. It enters the stream sap and is upwardly transported and germinates where the flow stops. Eventually, the mycelia and the spores clog the vessels of xylem, which prevents the plant from translocating nutrients and their uptake. In the end, the plant transports less and transpires more resulting in stomatal closure, wilting of leaves and death of the plant. Management Resistance of host plant: The interaction between the pathogen and the host defines race specificity or non-race specificity of resistance and it is based on the presence or absence of statistically significant interaction between host and pathogen genotypes. Most plant pathogenic fungi shows different interactions with their host plants, changing their relationship at different stages of their life cycle depending on the resistance of the host, physiology, the environment and associated virulence genes of the pathogens. Disease modeling: Disease models help to understand how the disease develops and approaches to test potential mitigation steps. Plant diseases account for about 16% or more of the total yield losses every year. To forecast the spread of these diseases both locally and over long distances, numerical models and monitoring networks have been developed. The epidemics of these airborne diseases depend on the production of infectious propagules, their aerial transport, specific infectiousness and finally their reproduction. Chemical control: Chemical fertilizers provide nutrients for healthy plant growth which are a combination of synthetic primary nutrients as nitrogen, potassium and phosphorus. They provide the benefit of having more nutrients than organic ones. The different types of chemicals used in agriculture are insecticides, herbicides, soil fumigants, desiccants, fungicides and plant growth regulators. Biological control: Many microbes show antagonistic activity against fungal pathogens which could be used to prepare solid or liquid microbial formulations to apply on sensitive and diseased plants. The use of these microbes helps the plants in developing resistance against the fungal infections, which also helps in plant growth promotion. They also induce a defense mechanism against the pathogens in host plants through induced systemic resistance (ISR). Cultural practices: Cultural practices can control fungal diseases in pulses and other plants. The selection of resistant varieties of plants is necessary by proper screening in the field. Plantation needs to be done in a well-drained area, with full sunlight. Airflow and ventilation discourage fungal growth, so crowding of plants should be avoided.