 (2022a) showed that the effect was only sig- niﬁcant among rural inhabitants, whereas it was insigniﬁcant among urban residents. They maintained that residents of rural areas are pri- marily dependent on natural resources such as agriculture and ﬁsheries as their primary source of income, which makes them extremely sus- ceptible to the effects of climate change. It is generally agreed that adaptation is the most effective strategy for mitigating the effects of climate change. Researchers have attempted to identify the traits linked to in- dividuals' subjective well-being, as scholars claim that subjective well- being is signiﬁcant for human existence. However, the previous research has solely focused on how the usage of cell phones and the internet affects one's subjective well-being in the form of happiness and overall life satisfaction (Nie et al., 2021; Zheng et al., 2023a). Other studies concentrate on topics such as the inﬂuence of mobile payment adoption and online shopping (Zheng and Ma, 2021, 2022), participation in poverty alleviation programs and garbage classiﬁcation (Tang et al., 2021; Li et al., 2023), options for cooking fuel (Ma et al., 2022), and working hours (Zheng et al., 2023b). However, there have been no studies that investigate the causal link between adapting to climate change through CSAT and one's subjective well-being, and this is espe- cially true among small farmers. Further, recent research suggests that for the successful adoption of CSAT and practices, it is crucial for researchers and development practitioners to consider innovations in the agricultural systems approach. 1.3. Analytical framework Innovations in CSAT encompass various social and economic activ- ities that are associated with the creation, dissemination, adaptation, and utilization of new technical, institutional, and organizational knowledge and resources. This consideration is essential for the overall beneﬁt of all stakeholders involved (Hall et al., 2006; Adekunle and Fatunbi, 2012). The concept of innovation platforms has gained recognition as a potential driver for enhancing the involvement of smallholder farmers in markets, fostering inclusive agricultural innovation, and facilitating knowledge exchange within the agricultural systems framework (Adekunle and Fatunbi, 2012; Schut et al., 2017). According to Schut et al. (2017), in- tellectual properties have the potential to facilitate the establishment of social networks, which can effectively promote the mobilization of essential resources for enhancing the adoption and dissemination of agricultural technology and information. This can be achieved through dynamic interactions and knowledge sharing among various stake- holders. The construction of such networks aligns with theoretical and empirical studies that see social capital as some valuable asset individuals can utilize to navigate challenges in their everyday experiences (Obaa and Mazur, 2017).