 But sorghum is finding a niche area under rice fallows, under the zero tillage conditions where grain productivity as high as 7–8 t/ha. Now it occupies a prime area of more than 45000 hectares and is expanding further, where kharif hybrids are prominently grown. In the last two decades, the nature and utilization of sorghum grain has undergone a change from being a staple food to industrial uses such as livestock and poultry feed, potable alcohol, starch and ethanol production. In addition, new value added/processed food products for human consumption are emerging such as popped sorghum, papad, semolina and other ready to cook and ready to eat foods, which, though in nascent stage, are likely to be significant avenues for diversifying utilization of sorghum and thus increasing its demand. Indian Farming 23 January 2023 Historical perspective of sorghum improvement in India Focused sorghum research in India started with the establishment of the Project on Intensification of Regional Research on Cotton, Oil seeds and Millets (PIRRCOM) in 1958. In 1966 the sorghum research was shifted from New Delhi to Hyderabad as a part of IARI Regional Research. Realizing the success of hybrid sorghum in the United States of America in 1962, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched the Accelerated Hybrid Sorghum Improvement Project (AICRP-Sorghum) from the existing IARI, RRS in Hyderabad. Subsequently, in 1987 a full-fledged “National Research Centre for Sorghum (NRCS)” was established which has evolved in to Indian Institute of Millets Research (IIMR) in 2015. Currently AICRP-Sorghum functions with a total of 18 centres spread across 9 states. Sorghum improvement efforts since 1960s were focused on improved grain and fodder yields. However, with demand of sorghum as forage crop and in recent years as sweet sorghum, an alternate source of bioethanol; intensive efforts towards these ends have also been initiated. A number of hybrids and open pollinated varieties have been released for cultivation till date, specifically to suit different seasons across India both at the national level by the ICAR and at the state level by State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). The popularity of nationally released sorghum hybrids (CSH 1 to CSH 35), varieties (CSV 1 to CSV 36), forage hybrids (CSH 20MF and CSH 24MF) and sweet sorghums (CSV 19SS, CSV 24SS and CSH 22SS) are a standing testimony of success of Indian sorghum programme not only in terms of yield enhancement, but also in terms of diversification of parental lines and progressive advances in incorporation of resistance against major pests and diseases. Some of the prevalent public sector sorghum hybrids/varieties that are adapted to kharif include CSH 14, CSH 16, CSH 25, CSH 30, CSH 35, CSV 15, CSV 20, CSV 23, CSV 27, CSV 31 while cultivars that are suitable for rabi include CSH 15R, CSH 19R, CSV 14R, CSV 216R, CSV 22R, CSV 26R, CSV 29R and M 35-1 (Table 1).