 During the period under consideration, a total of 20,248 farmers visited DEEs of SAUs/CAUs for getting improved technological support and inputs. Vermi compost production Shri Akash Chaurasiya belongs to a marginal farmer’s family in Tilli village of Sagar District of Madhya Pradesh. After being trained at KVK, Sagar, he adopted multilayer farming system with organic farming, in which he grows at least four to five crops in the same field, like ginger, ivy gourd, leafy vegetable, papaya and potato at the same time. Ginger is planted at the depth of 2.5 inches and width of 6 inches under the surface, as the first crop taking in the month of February. Then he grows any one of the leafy vegetables like Amaranthus or Spinach or Coriander etc. densely on the surface as second crop at the same time, which acts as green mulching and prevents the growth of weeds and moisture. As a third crop, he grows specially ivy gourd (Kundru), having a distance of 5-6 feet from each other on the wire net, locally-made from bamboo and grass, and constructed at a height of 6.5 feet from the surface level. The structure provides protection and partial shade to other crops like ginger and leafy vegetables for better growth at the same time in the month of February. Hence, all three crops are grown at the same time, with the same cost of labour& others expenses materials. As the fourth crop, he grows papaya in the month of April, which gives fruit above the net. After digging of ginger in September-October, potato is also planted in the month of October as a fifth crop. During this time, he sells ginger (as an off-season crop) at a higher price, that is 60 to 100 per kg, in the market. All of these crops were grown on wire constructed (MANDAP) which are fixed parallels on the bamboos, having a distance of 1.5 feet from each other. So, in this way, by growing of four to five crops together, then it can have 3-4 times more earning. Total expenditure on bamboo and wire-made structure, running up to five to six years, happened to be 1,50,000/acre, that is, 30,000/year. Total cost of cultivation of crops was 2,05,000 for cultivation of all crops, viz. Ginger, Ivy gourd (Kundru), Leafy vegetables (Amaranthus/ Spinach/Coriander/Fenugreek etc.), Papaya and Potato per year per acre. The net income obtained, thus, was found to be 4,95,000/acre with 3.41 BCR. Besides income, four-layer multiple cropping model gave other benefits also, such as, reduced insect-pest, no effect of climate change (i.e. from frost cold and heat waves etc.), and less requirement of manures due to multi crops being grown at the same time.