 longipennis (sequence A1) had 99% indentity to Cox 1 from H. consanguinea (A3). Similarly H. sikkimensis (sequence A2) showed 80% identity to Cox 1 from Jekelius brullei. H. longipennis (sequence A3) showed 99% identity to Cox 1 from H. serrata. H. serrata (sequence A4) showed 98% identity to Cox 1 from H. nagpurensis. On the other hand, sequence B1 (H. longipennis) and B4 (H. serrata) showed similarity to 28S rRNA from Hoplochelus piliger with identity of 98 and 99%, respectively, whereas both sequences B2 (H. sikkimensis) and B3 (H. consanguinea) showed 99% identity to 28S rRNA for H. transversa. Tissue culture technique in wide hybridization Embryo rescue in interspecific hybridization in cotton: During inter-specific traits introgression, species incompatibility arisen due to post fertilization barriers restricting the normal growth and development of zygote or embryo to become viable plantlets represents the most challenging task in crop breeding programs. An in vitro culture technique called ‘Embryo Rescue’ being employed for plantlet regeneration which otherwise may be impossible in normal conditions. In cotton, application of embryo rescue has been reported with In-vitro regeneration of Sehima nervosum Sehima nervosum is a natural range grass found inherently rich in precursors for several industrially important biomolecules. Production of nutraceuticals (prebiotics xylo-oligosaccharides) from this grass is promising. However, Sehima has narrow genetic variability. Therefore, it requires the aid of biotechnology and its new tools to produce new varieties with novel traits. Sehima nervosum (Var. Bundelsaen 1) seeds were used as explant materials in this study. The seeds were inoculated on to a MS medium, containing different concentration of 2,4-D for callus induction. For shoot regeneration callus were transferred into various concentration of BAP and kinetin and for rooting various concentrations of NAA. The best callus induction frequency was at 3.5 mg/l 2, 4-D, where it gave 95% of callus induction. Shoot induction frequency were highest recorded (98%) at concentration of 2.5 mg/l kinetin. The maximum root inducing frequency (47%) was observed at 4.5 mg/l NAA concentration. To the best of our knowledge there are no report on in-vitro callus induction and regeneration in Sehima. Herein first time we report efficient in-vitro callus induction and regeneration from mature seed explant in Sehima. The standardized protocol would be useful for genetic transformation of Sehima with genes of agronomic importance. varying success, while in India, this technique has not been extensively explored. In order to maximize the retention of fertilized ovary/bolls on the female plant for at least up to 10-15 DPA, pedicels of crossed female flowers were treated with 100 ppm gibberellic acid (GA3) hormone.