 Organizational effectiveness, organizational climate, organizational behaviour, organizational development, job satisfaction and morale. Time management. Performance appraisal. Coordination at different levels of extension management, methods of coordination. Management by Objective (MBO) and Total Quality Management (TQM). Project Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT). Logical Frame Working (LFW) and Project Management Techniques. Personal management, scope of Agribusiness Management and Institutions - National Institute of Agricultural Extension and Management (MANAGE). Indian Institute of Plantation Management (IIPM), NIRD, EEl and NAARM. Monitoring, evaluation and impact analysis of extension programmes. Critical analysis of organizational set up of extension administration at various levels. Agricultural Technology Information Centers (ATIC). Technology 125 Parks. Management Information System. Management of Agricultural Knowledge System (MAKS) and use of Expert System. Traditional media for communication in development programmes. Problem Solving Techniques / Negotiation , Motivational Theories & Techniques, Work motivation Organizational climate; Resource management: concept and methods; Team building: process and strategies at organizational and village levels. Mobilization and empowerment skills: concept and strategies in mobilization, concretisation and empowerment of rural people. Unit 8: Entrepreneurial Development Concept, significance and scope. Programmes and agencies promoting entrepreneurship. Types and techniques of training for developing entrepreneurial activities in various areas. Self Help Groups – concepts, organization, mobilization, micro-finance and functioning of SHG for empowerment and sustainability. Agripreneurship- agriclinics and agribusiness centers. International cooperation in agriculture - SAIC, Commonwealth, FAO, USAID, DFID and CGIAR system. Critical analysis of extension systems of SAARC, BRICS and other selected countries (USA, UK, Japan, Philippines, Israel etc.). Unit 9: Developmental Strategies and Issues in Extension Extension policies. National Agricultural Extension System and Networking of State development Departments, NARS, NGOs, Farmers Organizations, producers companies, agricultural cooperatives, rural banks, insurance and private sectors. History of Agriculture and Veterinary extension programmes- NPCBB, PM assistance livestock development programmes and rural development programmes. Developmental strategies such as Watershed Development Programmes; Technology Mission, Horticulture Mission. Front Line Extension Programmes of ICAR/TAR-IVLP, NATP, NAIP, IRDP, ATMA, ITD, SREP, Research-Extension-Farmer-Interface. Identification, characterization, documentation and validation of ITKs. Privatization of extension, market led extension, production to consumption and end to end innovative approaches. Issues related to globalization and IPR.