 The mixture is filtered through clean cotton cloth or sieve and fed orally to the cattle. This dose is repeated at an interval of 2 hr and continued for 2 days. Keywords: gas trouble, kachari, buttermilk To cure the gas trouble in cattle, 10 g ginger, 10 g each of black pepper (Piper nigrum), asafoetida (Ferula asafoetida) and sweet flag are taken Shri Sureshbhai Somabhai Patel, Rajpuri Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry. Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name-and address of the discloser/facilitator 3068 Control of gastric trouble in animals by using nausadar and paste is made. This paste is diluted with 200 ml hot water. The solution is given orally to cattle by using bamboo stick. The dosages are given thrice a day for 1-2 days for complete recovery from the gas trouble in animals. Keywords: asafoetida, ginger, black pepper, sweet flag To cure the gastric problem in animal, 10 g nausadar (Ammonium hydroxide) is given. The gastric problem is controlled in a few hours. This practice is followed by Maheshpur (Shivsingh) villagers of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: gastric trouble, animal, nausadar College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat, (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Rajendra, S/o Shri Babu Ram, Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3069 Control of bloat (gas trouble) in cattle by use of komala, meendhvel and mustard seeds 3070 Control of gastrointestinal disorders in animals with ajwain and dugjeera About 100 g bark of komala, 100 g bark of meendhvel (Cassia italica) plant and 100 g mustard seeds (Brassica juncea) are mixed and crushed together to make a paste by adding water. About 500 ml of this solution is given to the cattle immediately and 500 ml after 1-2 hr. This will relieve gas trouble in cattle within a few hours. This is a traditional method. Keywords: meendhvel, komala, mustard, gas trouble About 50 g powdered bishopweed seeds (ajwain) (Trachyspermum ammi) and 50 g powdered dugjeera fruit (Cuminum cyminum), are mixed with water. Gas trouble can be relieved within 2 hr. More than 20% of the population of this village is using this method of treatment for the past 20 years.