 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3384 Treatment of mouth disease in animals with chitchita 3385 Treatment of mouth disease in animals with turmeric and salt 3386 Use of chickpea flour and mustard oil to control mouth disease in animals 3389 Use of Sesbania grandiflora leaves to control mouth ulcer in goat 3390 Treatment to cure glosopharingitis in cows by using leaves of kanak champa parts of the animal twice daily. The foot disease in animal is controlled. Keywords: neem (Azadimchta indica), babool (Acacia nilotica), foot disease The people of village Amlonipur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use chitchita for control of mouth disease in animals. The juice of chitchita (250 g) is given to the animal twice daily. The mouth disease is cured in few days. Keywords: mouth disease, chitchita Cattle owners of village Gotia (Larpur) of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh prepare a paste of turmeric and salt (each 100 g). This paste is applied on the tongue of the affected animal. Keywords: turmeric, salt, tongue To cure mouth disease in cattle, people of village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. Chickpea flour (250 g) chapati is prepared and mustard oil is applied on it. This chapati is given daily to the animal for 2-3 days. The mouth disease of the animal is cured. Keywords: mouth disease, chickpea flour, chapati, mustard oil Sesbania leaves are taken in a wide- mouthed vessel and 1 litre water is added to it. It is boiled properly and the extract is filtered. The filtered solution is fed to the goat to cure mouth ulcer. Keywords: Sesbania grandiflora, mouth ulcer Glosopharingitis is a painful condition in cows. Due to inflammation in mouth cavity, cows cannot eat and Shri Tara Chand, S/o Shri Narayan Singh, Amlonipur, Bisalpur, dist. Bareilly (Utiar Pradesh) Shri Surendra Pal, S/o Shri Liladhar. Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai. Rajupur, Devchara, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri C. Thennarasu, S/o Shri Chidambaram, Chinnakuppam, Pappireddipatti, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 903 Shri Antaryami Pradhan, Tansi. dist. Angul (Orissa) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3391 Treatment of foot disease in animals by babool {Acacia arabica) and alum 3392 Treatment of foot disease in animals with alum and babool (Acacia nilotica) 3393 Treatment of foot disease in animals with hot sand 3394 Treatment of foot disease in animals with jamun and babool (Acacia nilotica) bark drink properly. In this practise, 200 g leaves of kanak champa (Michelia champaca) are taken and a paste is prepared by adding a little water to it, and given orally once a day for 3 days. It is reported by many farmers of the village that inflammation subsides within 3 days.