 Farmers’ perceptions of risk and their decisions to adopt specific adaptation strategies are influenced by various factors, including economic status, age, education, and farm landholding size [71,72]. Capturing ground-level evidence is essential for preparing adaptation strategies and identifying the shortcomings in achieving resilient and sustainable agriculture [73]. While promoting adaptive behavior, the perceptions of farmers to identify risks in varying socio-economic conditions should be considered. Moreover, the adoption of water management strategies is crucial in areas with water scarcity, high climate sensitivity, and constant socio-economic dynamic changes [74]. Using systematic tools to collect local knowledge can aid scientists in testing various hypotheses, which in turn helps policymakers prepare climate adaptation strategies [75]. Table 7 The statistical information about the cluster “Climate change". Cluster Keywords Links Occurrences 2 Climate change 49 205 2 Adaptation strategies 13 16 2 Resilience 13 13 2 Wheat 11 10 2 Perception 11 9 2 DSSAT 5 7 2 Rainfed agriculture 9 7 2 Maize 9 6 2 Impacts 8 5 B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 11 3.9.2. Climate change impacts The impacts of CC vary depending on the region and specific crop but are anticipated to significantly affect agriculture worldwide [76]. CC influences agriculture in multiple ways, including an increased occurrence of floods, sea-level rise, salt intrusion, and changes in rainfall patterns [77]. A study in the Ganges Basin, a major contributor to India’s food supply, showed that CC has affected yields in the region [78]. These impacts threaten farmers’ food security and may result in heightened food scarcity [60]. CC also affects the physiological mechanisms that regulate plant and animal productivity, which could lead to reductions in crop yield and groundwater depletion [79]. However, certain adaptation measures and enhanced agricultural practices, like early planting, nutrient management, and heat-tolerant varieties, can help mitigate some of these negative impacts [80]. 3.10. Temperature and rainfall (cluster 3) The third cluster, denoted by blue-colored nodes (see Fig. 5), is titled “temperature and rainfall.” It encompasses nine sub-topics: temperature, rainfall, remote sensing, climate variability, agroforestry, Geographical Information Systems (GIS), trend analysis, global warming, and Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI). The statistical information about this cluster is presented in Table 8. In the subsequent sections, we discuss key findings and suggestions from articles related to this cluster. High rainfall variability adversely influences agricultural specialization and household occupational choices. Better access to credit, irrigation facilities, education, roads, and communication is associated with greater emphasis on agriculture-related employ­ ment and lesser adoption of other types of employment within a household [81].