 Economic management with environmental, and social sustainability concepts at the farm level can improve farms' resilience, profitability, and long-term viability while reducing adverse environmental effects (Bi et al., 2024; Darnhofer et al., 2010). Existing studies also provide insights into the adoption of sustainable practices, financial advantages of conservation agriculture, and the impact of sustainable practices on household food security (Boix-Fayos & De Vente, 2023; D¨onmez et al., 2024; Pham et al., 2021). Hence, payments for ecosystem services are hoped to encourage and promote sustainable practices through financial incentives. However, the performance of agricultural credit disbursement in India has been less satisfactory in terms of both the allocation of credit to agriculture and target attainment. Reports state that informal credit serves as a significant portion of the total agricultural credit re­ quirements in India, accounting for 40 % (Kumar & Pathak, 2024). This is problematic due to the high interest rates which influence the borrowing behavior of farmers, with interest rate elasticity affecting their credit constraints (Key, 2020; ¨Olkers & Mußhoff, 2024). This will ultimately worsen the economic well-being of farmers. Other significant sources of agricultural credit include money lenders, shopkeepers, rel­ atives or friends, and co-operative societies. Despite the growth in institutional credit, a significant number of farmers still rely on non- institutional sources, such as moneylenders, which often charge exor­ bitant interest rates (RL & Mishra, 2022). This reliance is particularly high among smallholders. According to Ruml and Parlasca (2022) and Khan et al., (2024), the primary challenges that farmers encounter in the context of agricultural credit include a lack of access to formal credit is due to unclear land records, a skewed ratio between short-term and long-term agricultural credit, and insufficient access to crop insurance. Moreover, small-scale farmers face challenges accessing credit due to higher transaction costs, complicated procedures, and the inability to provide tangible collaterals (Jiang et al., 2024). Tenants and share­ croppers face difficulties in accessing credit due to lack of land owner­ ship (Behera & Behera, 2022; Bhanot et al., 2024). Farmers' access to credit is also influenced by factors such as engagement in off-farm in­ come-generating activities, farm size, and perception of operational modalities (Amponsah et al., 2023). These credit constraints will nega­ tively impact farmers' welfare and income. Additionally, (Bilal & Baig, 2019) state that agricultural credit systems struggle with poor risk mitigation mechanisms, especially in the wake of crop failures, leading to non-performing assets and loss to lending banks.