 After ploughing the field the land is ready for sowing if sufficient rainfall has occured (Dahod, Gujarat). Bhuriya (1998) 23 Green leaf manuring in paddy Puddling paddy field and incorporation green leaf manure 2-3 days prior to planting instead of 15 days, keeps soil surface loose for transplanting, especially in sandy soils (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 24 Manuring of paddy by tamarind seeds 20 measures (about 30 kg/acre) of tamarind seeds are applied in the paddy field, 10 days after transplanting of paddy crop. The seeds will bulge and it will give an appearance of tea water. This will give dark green colour to leaves and give a boost to crop growth and yield (Sivagangai, Tamil Nadu). Armugam (1999) 25 Paddy residue incorporation as manure Paddy is harvested by removing only the earheads, leaving the long stalk and stubbles to remain in the field. The paddy straw is incorporated in to the soil by tractors ploughing, which is a manuring practice and reduces the cost of fertilizers (Pondicherry). Jeyarajkumar (2000) 26 Sea weed as organic manure Approximately 100 g sea weed is soaked in 500 ml water for 12 hours, boiled at low temperature for 45 min. The decoction is allowed to cool and filtered. Approximately 40 litre water is added to the filtrate and sprayed on the crop. It helps increase yields. Dry sea weeds, pounded and mixed with organic manure and incorporated into the soil is also beneficial. It decomposes within a month. It acts rapidly when sprayed as liquid. Seeds soaked in water extract of sea weed, germinate earlier (Valsad, Gujarat). Nayak (1996) 27 Green manuring in chickpea by weed Buin, a weed is used as green manure in chickpea (Hisar, Haryana). 99 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 28 Use of weed as green manure Farmers allow a weed called 'kherbi' to grow in the field since it is believed to help the main crop. In earlier times this weed used to be buried in the soil to provide manure to the main crop. Later on, some farmers noticed that it absorbs moisture from the deeper layer of the soil and helps in retaining it in the upper layers (Dang). Jivanbhai (1993) 29 Increasing soil fertility by crop rotation Farmers of village Machla followed a unique method of crop rotation to increase the productivity and maintain the fertility of the soil. In the first year during the rainy season (kharif) maize (Zea mays) is sown (it is a deep rooted crop). The following year rice (Oryza sativa) or black gram (Phaseolus mungo) is sown (these are shallow rooted plants).In third year castor (Ricinus spp) is sown (it is a deep rooted plant), and in fourth year groundnut (Arachis hypogaea) is sown. Groundnut and black gram ensure a good supply of nitrogen. This ensures a good mixing of all the layers of the soil as the crops have varied root depths (Banaskantha, Gujarat).