 The nurseries supply ‘true-to-type’ and ‘true-to-variety’ saplings. Vocational training in animal husbandry In one of the least developed districts of India, Hazaribagh, Bihar, Holy Cross VTI KVK has been training the rural youth in para veterinary skills since 1986. The TRYSEM programme equips these youngsters in three months with adequate knowledge on poultry, goattery, piggery, fodder production and on treating common diseases of livestock through “learning by doing”. Once trained, the para veterinary doctors are given tool kits and basic medicines, while the banks provide loans for a working capital. The “Bare Foot Doctors" now take care of the livestock in the thickly covered forests of Hazaribagh, their home. publications and information f oe cckokeciane and technology must penetrate masses. The world today ‘ ~ tas been closely linked than ever before only because Of \@uiickne affective : baths seicapaton z Miia IRs The Director-General, ca who i 4 I | iitee, identifies fromti time the ti g x bh These interface publications are much sought after Semi-technical Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture are abstracted by leading bibliography services. Indian Horticulture enjoys a tremendous popularity. On the domestic scene it has proved "the pen is mightier’ in moulding public opnion and reforming policy Publications in Hindi are popular in substance PUBLICATIONS AND INFORMATION DIVISION DIRECTOR-GENERAL DIRECTOR ENGLISH HINDI ART PHOTOGRAPHY PRODUCTION BUSINESS AGRICULTURAL ADMINISTRATION EDITORIAL EDITORIAL RESEARCH & FINANCE INFORMATION CENTRE (ARIC) Cross-discipline research journals, The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, are on the rating of the ISI, Philadelphia Books published in English may be monographs, technical books, textbooks, reference books or popular books; those published in Hindi are essentially popular in nature. The Handbook of ICAR on Agriculture and on Animal Husbandry, both in English, are very popular among students. Research conducted in the ICAR is published in English in 2 technical journals and 2 semi-technical journals of the ICAR. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences are monthly in periodicity. The semi-technical journal Indian Farming is a monthly and the Indian Horticulture, a quarterly. All of them are indexed and abstracted internationally. Kheti, a monthly, and Phal Phool and Krishi Chayanika, quarterlies, are published in Hindi. The ICAR News, a science and technology newsletter, and ICAR Reporter, a house journal, are brought out every three months to keep the ICAR well-knit at home and abroad. The books and semi-technical journals are beautifully designed and illustrated. They conform to the guidelines laid down by the UN Code of Conduct for Science Writers and Editors and the International Conference of Biology Editors. The publications are nominally priced, at no profit no loss.