84 g for control, CAW and NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 83 ● Lignite mine degraded land has been rehabilitated by profile modification and plantation of trees and shrubs ● Sandy soils with shallow soil depth, otherwise unfit for crop cultivation have been rehabilited by growing grass at the farmers’ field BDG diet, respectively, indicating that brewery grain waste can be used as substitute for wheat bran in rabbit feed to reduce the feed cost by Rs 1.45/kg. Low Cost Feed for Fish Out of the four formulated ornamental fish feeds tested on gourami for the growth performance, feeds based on chicken liver meal and squid meal, gave results statistically at par in case of all nutritional indices compared to the commercial diets, viz. brine shrimp flake and tubifex worm which was many fold cheaper than the commercial ones. Use of probiotics containing different levels of Lactobacillus sp. on Labeo rohita fry, on the growth performance, nutrient utilization and carcass composition was found to be the best at the probiotic supplement level of 5.0 g [3.0 billion Lactobacillus viable CFU/kg of basal diet (40.00% CP). However enzyme based probiotic feed supplement gave the best results at the level of 3 g. Livestock Disease Management Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus sp. were found to be the major causative organisms of mastitis in crossbred cows from field cases. Foot and mouth disease and Ehrlichiosis among cattle are also prevalent in Goa. Total of 3.13 per cent blood samples from cattle revealed positively for brucellosis. Samples of fresh meat and meat products collected contained fresh meat counts of 10.45 × 104 cfy/g for mesophiles, less than 103 cfu/g for psychrophiles and 1.1 × 104 cfu/g for yeast and moulds. In meat products, the mesophilic counts were 7.5 × 104 cfu/g. Post-harvest Technology of Local Fruits It was found that most of the processed products from fruits available or grown in Goa region, had storage life of up to six months with traditional recipes and packing. In studies on extending the shelf life of indigenous fruits, viz. bread fruit and bimbli, showed that the storage life could be extended at ambient temperature by packing them in 0.4 mm LDPE bags with 0.5 per cent ventilation. Studies on storage of raw bread fruit pieces in brine solution, revealed that after six months of storage there was not much change in organoleptic attributes, viz. colour, texture and flabbier besides, chemical parameters like TSS and acidity. ARID ECOSYSTEM Rainwater Harvesting in Tankas for Drought Management Water harvesting technology involving land shaping, roof water harvesting and its storage in tankas were great success at Khetasar, Kalyanpur and many other villages near CAZRI,Jodhpur.