 Discussion This study focuses at the interface of vulnerability of agricul- ture to climate change and child health status in young children in India, to the geographical resolution to district. The study iden- tiﬁes the sub-section of districts which need to be targeted with a slew of measures to improve the public health. The study high- lights about 40% of the districts in India are highly vulnerable to climate change. Hence, these districts should be given priority over the medium and low vulnerability districts for agricultural inter- ventions. The vulnerability of the nutritional density of staple crops (e.g. wheat and rice) to the parameters of climate change, suggests an immediate need to change crop diversity and develop long term 2096 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 Fig. 5. Vulnerability of agriculture to climate change and underweight prevalence in children (6–59 months). Fig. 6. Child health index (CHI) of children aged 6 to 59 months for districts of India. strategy to transform agriculture for higher resilience to climatic variabilities. Malnutrition (including under-nutrition) is a major contributor to disease burden in India. The predominant risk factor for death in the children younger than ﬁve years of age in every state of In- dia in 2017, was malnutrition. It accounted for 68.2% of the total under-ﬁve deaths. The disability-adjusted life year (DALY) rate at- tributable to malnutrition in children under ﬁve years of age var- ied 6.8 times between states and was the highest in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Assam, and Rajasthan ( Swaminathan et al., 2019 ). The CHI includes indicators like stunting, which may be associated with both deteriorated environmental conditions and long-term nutri- tional deprivation resulting in insuﬃcient food intake or high inci- dence of infectious diseases. Other indicators included in the index are anaemia (mainly indicating the deﬁciency of minerals and vita- mins), underweight (composite indicator of nutritional status), and diarrhoea (indicator of poor sanitation and hygiene). Therefore, the child health indicators which form the CHI are critical, since early years in life are the bedrock to build a strong and productive pop- ulace. Any effort to reduce underweight and anaemia in children will reap rich dividends. India has started various policy initiatives to address child mal- nutrition, such as Integrated Child Development Services (ICDS) in 1975, the National Nutrition Policy (NNP) in 1993, the Mid Day Meal (MDM) scheme for school children in 1995, and the Na- tional Food Security Act (NFSA) in 2013, but the prevalence of un- 2097 M. Sehgal, S.K. Ghosh, K.N. Singh et al. Sustainable Production and Consumption 27 (2021) 2090–2100 Fig. 7. Vulnerability of agriculture to climate change and CHI in children of age 6–59 months. derweight, stunting, and wasting remains high.