 As the implement is very light in weight it is not so effective in breaking the clods but is quite useful for puddling the fields (All districts except hill regions, West Bengal). ICAR (1960) 24 Nada Negilu for land preparation This plough is made up of pongamia/babool/neem/hone wood and mild steel. It is used for preparation of land for various crops and has the average draught from 100-260 lbs depending upon the soil conditions. The body and shoe are prepared in one piece and handle is separate. It can be operated by one pair of bullocks and one man. Similar ploughs are used in Champaran and Patna (Bihar), Guntur, West Godavari, Anantapur, Cuddapah, Chittor, Srikakulum (Andhra Pradesh) and Koraput of Orissa (Kolar, Tumkur, Chitradurga, Shimoga, Mandya, Mysore and Bangalore (Karnataka)). ICAR (E) (1960) 114 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 25 Ploughing with desi plough Use of the indigenous plough is still prevalent in Spiti valley. During April,women first uniformly spread farmyard manure and then the fields are ploughed (Spiti valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 26 Plough with one piece The shoe and body make one piece. The joint between the shoe and body is avoided to make the plough more rigid and robust to work on gravelly soils with stones and other obstacles (Kullu, Solan, Shimla, Sirmour, Lahaul, Spiti and Kinnaur of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 27 Pathal for crushing clods The implement is made up of Babool wood for body and forged iron for rings. It weights about 130 lbs and operated by two pairs of bullocks and two person. One pair of bullock is yoke to each of the two rings fitted to the clod crusher. Two person stand on the implement to add more weight to it and control bullocks. It covers 2-3 acres/day by crushing the clods and planking the fields. It is popular in cotton tracts (Nagpur, Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 28 Haulbi (wet land harrow) for land preparation It is made up of iron, bamboo and Babool wood by local artisans for preparation of the seed beds. It is hitched to the yoke by a rope for operation with a pair of bullocks and one man to cover 4 acres/day in red soils. The depth of penetration is 6 inches and average pull is 135 lbs. There are six iron tynes to this implement and is used by almost all the farming community in Bangalore area (Bangalore, Karnataka). ICAR (1960) 29 Tyned hoe (Papattam) for interculture in upland paddy The implement is made up of wood for beam and handle and mild steel bars are tynes. The weight of the implement 25-30 lbs, operated by a pair of bullocks and man and covers 2-3 acres/day in semi-dry paddy areas after light showers. The tynes of the implement resemble the simple hand hoe in shape and about 20% of the farming community use this implement for removal of weeds after initial rains in the early stages of paddy zone (Chengalput, Tamil Nadu). ICAR (1960) 115 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.