 During the last decade, there was a signiﬁcant focus on battery electric vehicles (BEVs); today, the focus is gradually shifting to other alter- natives such as ﬂex-fuel and hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles. As of June 2023, over 15 active policies were associated with the transport sector at the national level39. While current policies are mostly targeted towards passenger transport, the freight transport sector also needs closer attention from policymakers. Current policies associated with the transport sector To manage the volatility of crude oil prices, GOI periodically modiﬁed fuel taxation of conventional fossil fuels, by adjust- ing excise duty or additional surcharges. The primary pur- pose has been to ease the economic burden on common people, gain additional revenues, or inﬂuence the fuel export/import volume. While economic and social sustain- ability objectives indirectly inﬂuenced taxation policies, traditionally, they had little to do with environmental objec- tives. However, the GOI began to promote greener policies in the transport sector during the last decade or so. For exam- ple, to promote the production and adoption of environmen- tally green vehicles, the National Electric Mobility Mission Plan (NEMMP) 2020 was introduced in 2013, with an objec- tive of achieving 6–7 million sales of electric and hybrid vehicles year on year from 2020 onwards. The prominent policy under this mission was the Faster Adoption and Manufacturing of (Hybrid &) Electric Vehicles (FAME) scheme, primarily focused on demand-based incentives for consumers and sanctioning of electric buses for public trans- port. After getting started in 2015, the scheme was extended till 2024 in two phases. Despite having co-beneﬁts from segments such as electric 3-wheelers and e-rickshaws, by the end of Phase-I, the overall outcomes of 50 million litre fuel saving and 120 million Kg CO2 emission reduction Fig. 5 The proposed policy framework for promoting sustain- able practices and Millet production in India Source: Created by authors Fig. 6 Direct (tailpipe) emission by transport sector in 2020 Source: CEEW data Fig. 7 Current policy structure in the transport sector Source: Created by authors 39 As per record on IEA (https://www.iea.org/) – Accessed on 02 July 2023. Transformative policies for a sustainable future 31 were signiﬁcantly below the targets. Phase-II saw a sudden drop in demand after a revision in the incentive structure from June 2023. While a signiﬁcant fraction of the total funds under both phases was allocated towards monetary incentives to consumers to reduce the upfront cost of EVs to generate higher demand, the development of charging infra- structure, which is critical to enable EV adoption by the masses, received below 10% of the total funding. On the supply side, a Production Linked Incentive (PLI) scheme was introduced for automakers and component and battery cell manufacturers.