 The (A) Sodium-based grease Lubricant (grease) from bio-oil (B) Lithium-based grease Digital Flume for Open Channel Flow Measurement A digital flume with the Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity has been developed and tested to continuously measure the flow rates in open channels. The process was developed using an ESP8266 microcontroller board, and the depth of flow was measured using an ultrasonic sensor, which allowed the discharge to be estimated using the flume’s discharge equation. Utilizing the IoT, the developed digital flume measures the discharge and transmits data wirelessly for storage on cloud (ThingSpeak). It was tested in the field under varying discharge conditions. The R2 value for the actual flow rate and flow rate measured through the developed digital flume is 0.97. It can be utilized for irrigation water measurement in the field channel. cost of production of biochar using continuous biochar reactor was ₹77/kg. Lubricant (grease) from pine needle bio-oil A process of grease preparation from pine needle pyrolysis oil was developed by replacing the pyrolysis oil as base oil with mineral oil and animal fat (goat) as thickener other than vegetable oil. The produced grease is good quality, eco-friendly, bio-degradable, non-toxic in nature and low cost. According to the TGA and DTG analysis of grease samples, grease of Na- based mineral oil (sample A) has the maximum thermal degradation as compared to grease of Na-base with bio- oil (sample B) and grease of Li-based with bio-oil. Cone Mechanization and Energy Management icar annual report 2022-23 131 drop up to 70 kPa as choking increased gradually. The filtration efficiency (%) has been obtained between 22– 25% and 24–28% at TSS load of 1500 and 2000 ppm, respectively. FRP-HDPE hybrid cage deployed in Pulicat brackishwater lake penetration and copper corrosion values are similar for all samples, demonstrating its liquid consistency and metal-protecting nature. Slightly higher concentrations of Fe, Cu, and Pd with an extremely lower amount of Ca, Mg, Zn, and P were obtained in the grease samples. The ferro-graphical study revealed relatively few wears and contaminations in grease samples, showing that the grease behaved in good quality. This grease could be suitable for applications in areas of normal working temperatures such as roller bearings, gears, etc. The biodegradability of these pyrolysis based greases allows the wasted grease to degrade naturally and also causes no damage to the environment in the process. Beep sound if filter is choked Self-cleaning filter for micro-irrigation system An automatic self-cleaning filter with simple cleaning mechanism was developed for micro-irrigation system. The controller monitors the filter during its operation through its pressure transmitters installed at inlet and outlet of the filter. It was programmed to detect the chocking stage as per BIS norm (70 kPa) and to clean it without human interventions.