 yy Millet-based research in partnership needs further strengthening, specifically on red grain and low tannin lines in sorghum and hybrids of pearl millet for dry areas of Rajasthan. yy The newly recruited scientists of ICAR to be attached to ICRISAT for training in order to take advantage of frontier areas of research in ICRISAT. Overall, the progress made under ICAR-ICRISAT Partnership was observed satisfactory. (II) International Maize and Wheat Improvement Centre (CIMMYT) i. Dr. Arun Joshi presented the report and work plan for 2020, highlighting that 8 varieties were developed through ICAR-CIMMYT partnership. Dr. Joshi mentioned that screening of materials has already started in wheat blast research; 100 Indian varieties are being evaluated along with a new panel of 353 lines, which were tested in Bangladesh and Bolivia. Through this exercise, 25-50 lines have been estimated to be identified for blast resistance. ii. Further, he stated that 200 durum germplasm lines have been shared for trials with ICAR to screen for drought and rust resistance; additionally, 752 lines are being tested for stress tolerance and the molecular mapping. In conservation agriculture, metagenomic studies under long-term conservation agriculture have been employed to understand the diversity and richness of Ascomycota and Zygomycot, which revealed that the former was dominant under conservation agriculture systems. iii. Joint efforts were also highlighted on crop residue management in the north-west plains of India. In an effort to understand the socio- economic impact of wheat-based systems, the gender preference for wheat traits was narrated as one example. This study further revealed that the farmers preferred varieties majorly by colour and length, but heat stress tolerance and lodging susceptibility were also considered by a few farmers. iv. CIMMYT gave special emphasis to the capacity building; 2 scientists (one from IIWBR and another IARI) completed 10 months Visiting Scientist program in wheat breeding and pathology in Mexico and Bolivia; One scientist from IARI attended the Stem Rust Training Course in Kenya in 2019; 2 scientists attended the International Training on Wheat Blast Disease Screening and Surveillance in Bangladesh; 2 dozen student interns during 2019 was a highlight. The progress presentation was discussed, and the following points were decided: yy New variety development in wheat should target 10 t/ha yield potential along with thermal heat tolerance. yy New areas of research identified for future include bread wheat improvement, blast resistance, durum wheat improvement and quality in wheat. yy CIMMYT to consider quality of wheat by grading the existing varieties. yy In maize, rigorous precision phenotyping and heterotic grouping of germplasm was suggested yy CIMMYT to undertake socio-economic analysis of laser land leveling in the Indo- Gangetic plans.