 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address ol' the discloser/facilitator 3402 Cure of FMD in cattle by using garlic and mustard oil 3403 Fumigation of cattle yard to cure FMD 3404 Use of bark of sal to cure FMD in cattle 3405 Feeding mushroom to prevent FMD in cattle can tolerate and poured in a stream over the hooves. The people in this area have great faith in this method of treatment; about 50% people in the villages use this method. Keywords: dhak, alum, topical, hooves, latex In this practice, to cure FMD in goats, garlic (Allium sativum) pieces are fried in mustard oil and after the oil cools, it is applied on the muzzle region and a few drops are put in the mouth. The hooves are regularly washed with treated neem water (neem leaves are boiled in water and strained). Keywords: garlic, neem, muzzle This is a common practice of treatment of FMD in town and its nearby villages, Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu). In this practice, the cattle yard and affected animals are fumigated by buring neem leaves, dried fish waste and turmeric powder mixture. Keywords: fumigation, neem, fish waste, cattle yard In this practice, 200 g bark of sal (Shorea robusta) trees are collected and crushed. Then it is boiled in a little water. A pasty and sticky decoction is produced. This sticking material is applied in the hoof and muzzle of the cattle affected with FMD. This helps in healing and prevents spread of virus. The dosage should be used twice a day, till complete healing. Keywords: sal, hoof, virus, muzzle A locally available mushroom, known as phundka chhatu, is used by the tribals of Nilgiri subdivision in Orissa to prevent FMD. The round and ball- shaped mushroom is available in the Shri Mohan Lai (Uttar Pradesh) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Karuppanan. Coimbatore (Tamil Nadu) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Duryodhan Biswal, Lodhani, Parjang, Dhenkanal (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Biswanath Pradhan, Jakeikala, Bonaigarh. Sundargarh (Orissa) Facilitator: National Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3406 Control of FMD with cowpea leaves 3407 Treatment of foot disease in animals with linseed (Linum usitatisimum) oil 3408 Use of onion for treatment of weakness in foot of animals 3409 Cure of lameness in animals last part of rainy season (September- October). These mushrooms are dried and kept preserved. Before winter comes (season for spread of FMD), 2 such dried mushrooms are fed to the cattle. It acts as a preventive measure for the cows against FMD. The dosage should be used once or twice with an interval of 20 days, before winter season starts.