 4) between 2009 and 2019, which suggests the loss of SOC in the last decade. The management non-intensive period shows a higher concentration of CO2 than the management intensive period, which might be attributed to the higher land surface temperature and low soil moisture promoting the oxidation of SOC. This is interesting as it also highlights the role of crop cover over arable lands that fixes atmospheric CO2. During this period, most agricultural lands remain fallow due to the unavailability of water for irrigation, so the vegetation cover is reduced to a greater extent and hence, the CO2 uptake is also decreased. Therefore, positive NEE is observed and this indicates that the ecosystem was a source of CO2 in this dry period between January and June (Table S1). However, it has also been found that the agricultural land gets exposed to soil erosion due to the unavailability of vegetation cover. The accelerated soil erosion has been identified as a source of GHG emissions (Lal, 2019) to the atmosphere. Lal and Pimentel (2008) have reported that soil erosion has a negative impact on carbon sequestration, constituting a source of atmospheric CO2. Furthermore, they state that soil erosion increases CO2 emissions due to decrease in NPP on eroded soil and a relatively high decomposition of SOC in buried sediments. In the early months of the non-intensive period (January–February), the lower temperature inhibits the microorganism activity that hinders the decomposition process. However, the temperature starts increasing in the latter half of this period (March to May), which enhances the microorganism activity promoting the decomposition and CO2 release, as shown by the high CO2 concentration during the zaid season in our analyses (Fig. 2). Conversely, during the management intensive period, most agricultural land undergoes cultivation. Temperature, precipitation, soil moisture and light hours are optimum for attaining the required thermal units for vegetation growth and this enhances the photosynthesis in this period. During photosynthesis, plants uptake a considerable amount of CO2 from the atmosphere (Daniel, 2010). Thus, high CO2 uptake by vegetation during management intensive period. We observe negative or nearly zero NEE in most of the Indian regions and shows higher values of NDVI and NPP due to the extensive vegetation cover over the arable lands in this period. Therefore, terrestrial vegetation is a strong driver in controlling the CO2 concentration in the atmosphere than intercultural activities. 3.3. Inter-annual variations in atmospheric carbon dioxide Our analyses show a significant increase in CO2 from 384 ppm in 2009 to 411 ppm in 2020 (Fig. 5) over India. Emissions from human activities are one of the major contributors to this increase in CO2 levels in the atmosphere (Oda and Maksyutov, 2011).