 ICAR-FUSICONT is a bio-formulation developed using antagonistic fungal isolate CSR-T-3 of Trichoderma reesei and a bacterial PGPR isolate CSR-A-11 of Lysnibacillus fusiforms in a unique IPR protected media with a dynamic substrate. This bio-formulation is used to control the wilt diseases in banana, vegetables (tomato, potato, capsicum, chillies) and spice (cumin and fenugreek) crops. This is the only validated effective formulation in the country for the management of devastating outbreak of banana Fusarium wilt disease caused by TR-4. The technology was successfully validated and commercialized recently through Agrinnovate India Ltd. for a global license FUSICONT treated fields of the adopters in hot spot region of Ayodhya district of U.P. Fusarium wilt TR4 non adopters fields of the Ayodhya district in U.P. Developed an Android Platform-based Mobile App (FarmTree) for Agroforesters (https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cafri. farmtree ) based on the package of practices of 25 promising agroforestry tree species of India. This application provides a user-friendly, bilingual (Hindi and English) e-platform to have necessary and crisp information on all aspects of agroforestry tree species to farmers. The drip fertigation has been identified as an innovation for higher nutrient use efficiency in crops and copping systems. During 2014- 21, standardized drip fertigation schedules for 18 crops and cropping sequences during 2014-21 against 17 during 2007-13. DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 35 Climate change research facilities at IARI, New Delhi The integrated farming system (IFS) models are the potential tool for enhanced farm productivity and income of small and marginal farmers. During 2014-21, 42 Multi - enterprise integrated farming system (IFS) models were developed as compared to 18 such models during 2007- 13. Higher income to the tune of Rs. 1.5 - 3.6 lakhs per annum per hectare can be realized with these models. NABARD has identified 32 bankable IFS models developed by IIFSR, Modipuram. Climate change research facilities such as high through-put phenotyping platforms, free air temperature elevation (FATE), carbon dioxide and temperature gradient tunnels (CTGC), rainout shelters, animal calorimeter, shipping vessel, flux towers and satellite data receiving station etc.have been established at various partner institutes viz., IARI, New Delhi; CRIDA, Hyderabad; IIHR, Bengaluru; ICAR-RC NEH, Umiam; CMFRI, Kochi; NRRI, Cuttack; NDRI, Karnal under NICRA project. With these facilities studies on impact of elevated CO2 and temp on crops, livestock, fisheries, soil, water, pests and diseases using simulation models and GHG inventorization and C sequestration under predominant production systems have been undertaken. More than 1200 scientists, 105 Ph.D. and 51 M.Sc. students and 872 young research fellows across the country are involved under this climate change network research project.