 The institute is putting its constant efforts to provide an inclusive approach to nurture the incubatee/ startups a full proof, sustainable mode of development for a successful business enterprise. There has been an increased awareness and consumer preference towards use and development of different sustainable products. In this similar line, ICAR- CIRCOT has developed numerous technologies to utilize the agro residues along with empowering the agripreneurs/incubatees through its ABI scheme by encouraging, nurturing and supporting innovative agribusiness ideas and turning them into sound commercial ventures. The supportive initiatives by government organizations and capital support by various private and government agencies will further encourage youth and startups for venturing into agriculture based technopreneurship. Corresponding author’s e-mail: ashokbhari72@gmail.com. cotton growers, notable industries include M/s. The Kadri Mills Limited, Coimbatore, M/s. Green Globe Mumbai, Navi Mumbai, M/s. Sana Agro Industries Limited, Raichur, Karnataka, M/s. Life Long Combines, Aluva, Kerala, M/s. Greyy, Navi Mumbai, M/s. Precision Tooling Engineers, Nagpur, M/s. among textile industries, ginning industries and cotton farmers, ICAR- CIRCOT catalyses the penetration of technologies among the masses. With a strong foothold in various zones of India through its regional stations, the needs of stakeholders are met with this experience and expertise. Apart from thousands of benefitted Indian Farming January 2020 18 A Business Model of Custom Hiring of Agricultural Machinery for Enhanced Farm Mechanization in Madhya Pradesh Uday R Badegaonkar, M B Tamhankar, K P Saha and P C Bargale ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal , Madhya Pradesh 462 038 Farm mechanization has become inevitable for augmenting agricultural production and achieving the steady growth in agriculture in synchronization with population growth. Increasing shortage of agricultural labours also necessitates availability of agricultural machinery at right time and at an affordable cost to farmers. Further, utilization of appropriate farm machinery reduces the unit cost of production through enhanced input use efficiency and their judicious use. The farm mechanization necessitates substantial investment on farm power sources and implements which is neither essential nor feasible for small and marginal farmers, who constitute over 80% of the total farm holdings in India. In this situation, custom hiring of agricultural machinery appears to be logical and most appropriate best institutional intervention pushed forward in recent years.