 We have estimated uncertainty for every parameter used for the emission estimation and have reported it along with our District-level Agricultural Residue Burning Emissions in India 2011–2020 v1.3 (Data in Brief, Deshpande et al., 2023). Based on our accuracy analysis, we report an uncertainty of ±27 % for our ABA product. The un­ certainties for Fresd and Fdm were estimated to be ±10 % and ±5 %, respectively (e.g. for Wheat Fresd ranges from 1.50 to 1.70 and Fdm ranges from 0.78 to 0.88) (IPCC, 2006; Jain et al., 2014). For Femiss of CO and CO2, uncertainties are ±32 %, and ±6 % respectively. The highest un­ certainty of ±61 % was associated with CH4 Femiss. (Akagi et al., 2011; Van Der Werf et al., 2017). Table 3 details the uncertainty of each factor, and Table 4 summarizes the total % uncertainty for the cases when variables are treated as independent or as correlated. 5. Discussion The present study attempts to estimate the decadal trend in agri­ cultural residue-burning activities and related emissions. We created a new ABA data product to determine the extent of burning, burning patterns, and the association between burning, crop type and cropping seasons. We also developed a novel approach to quantify the amount of crop residue that has contributed to burning rather than assuming that a fixed fraction of the entire residue was burned -previous studies have assumed that 25 % of all residues produced are burned, and this value is also recommended by the IPCC (Jain et al., 2014; Reddy et al., 2002; Sahai et al., 2011; Sahu et al., 2021; Venkataraman et al., 2006). In contrast, our ABA product (Figs. 2(a) and 3) shows that not all farmers in all states and during all seasons are burning residues before the start of the next cropping season, indicating that not all farmers prefer burning as a prominent way to manage residue. Instead, there are likely several supply and demand side factors that explain heterogeneous burning practices, including the use of mechanized harvesting, nutrient content of the straw (e.g., level of silica and oxalate content in rice straw), the existence of markets for crop residues, local livestock population and opportunities to use residue for industrial purposes (e.g., biochar pro­ duction, fuel for cooking and in brick kilns) (Krishna and Mkondiwa, 2023). Unlike the indirect conversion-factor-based estimates, the dry matter burned calculated directly using our satellite-based product shows a non–linear relationship with grain production (Fig. S2). Our results highlight that it is highly misleading to assume that residues of all crops and all growing seasons contribute equally to CRB, and doing so can overestimate emissions in India and misguide where mitigation ef­ forts should be prioritized. Previous studies have estimated that Uttar Pradesh contributes the maximum amount of emissions across states in India, given its high amount of residue generation (Jain et al., 2014; Sahai et al., 2011; Sahu et al., 2021).