 The communication pattern of FPO and Non-FPO farmers was assessed through Social Network Analysis. The cohesiveness, sparsity and degree of influence of FPO were better than non-FPO farmers. It was found one of the important tools for Leadership identification on the basis of network plot. Development and validation of Smart Aquaculture Model (SAM) for sustainable shrimp aquaculture: An android mobile application-CIBA Shrimp Krishi App was developed and launched for handholding the shrimp farmers to make real-time based informed decisions at farm level. The app is free and available in four languages viz., English, Hindi, Tamil and Telugu. Using this interactive mobile application, the farmer can input his farm data on day-to-day farming operations/ observations from stocking to harvest. Based on the inputs provided and inbuilt decision-making system, the app will display pond-wise status on shrimp survival, biomass, feed conversion ratio, pond water quality, and the expenditure incurred. The expert systems inbuilt in to the app alert the end-user farmer with technical advisories whenever any deviations are noted in day- to-day parameters of water quality, feeding and shrimp health. The app can store the entire crop data in it, and the farmer can retrieve the data for their own long-term decision-making purposes or share it with their resource person for technical advice. The app has a post-your query option through that the end-user can send his queries in text or image format which are answered in two working days. Moreover, it paves the way for accessing real-time bulk data from the remotely located shrimp farms to monitor and extend customized technical advisories. The app is also available in windows platform to enhance its adoptability and both versions are interchangeable. ❑ related to reproductive interventions under stress condition and tested on wild and pond-reared hilsa. It can deliver optimum amount of anaesthetic solution with desired flow over the gills through buccal cavity. Among various drugs tested, Tricaine methanesulfonate (MS- 222) and 2-Phenoxyethanol (2-PE) were found equi- potent; the time required for complete anaesthesia and recovery was lower. However, based on alterations in the stress enzymes and hormones in response, the MS-222 was found best suited for hilsa. Understanding molecular basis of host-pathogen- environment interaction of Tilapia Lake Virus disease: Two qRT-PCR assays targeting TiLV genome segments 1 and 10 were standardised and employed to determine the viral load in liver, brain and spleen tissues of experimentally-infected tilapia. The assays detected higher viral load in liver than that determined in spleen and brain at all-time points post-infection. The study revealed an increasing trend in the viral load in the early stages of infection and a steady decline in the later stages.