 Angle of bend of spinal column was found as high as 63° during harvesting, 58° during transplanting, and 32° during uprooting of seedlings, 17° for performing the weeding activities. Due to the poor postures adopted while performing the activities, women felt severe to very severe pain in the neck, shoulder joints, low back, knee, upper- thigh and feet and changed the posture frequently to get relief from the unbearable pain. Few of the improved technologies were tested in order to see the impact of these on the drudgery reduction of farm-women in selected activities to a significant level. The use of improved tools also enhanced the work efficiency, reduced the time cost therefore reduced the total cardiac cost of work and physiological cost of work. Improved sickles for fodder cutting MAU dibbler for dibbling Wiper for mud plastering of house Kilta for storing plucked tea leaves WOMEN IN AGRICULTURE 181 A.P. CESS FUND SCHEMES OF HOME SCIENCE The adhoc scheme titled Study on supplementation of leaf powder concentrate on Vitamin A and iron status of children (1–3 year age) has been implemented by, Dr (Ms) K. Khanna, Director, Institute of Home Economics (IHE), New Delhi. The findings clearly indicated that Leaf Protein Concentrate (cauliflower leaf) based supplementary feeding was superior in improving the condition of the under nourished subjects. To improve hemoglobin levels significantly there is a need to supplement the receipes with ascorbic acid to increase the bio availability of the iron. This was needed in addition to other measures like (like controlling parasitic load) so as to improve iron status of children. Development of diversified food formulations based on millets suitable for groups at risk particularly from Kumaon was implemented.by Dr (Ms) Sarita Srivastava, G. B. Pant University of Agriculture and Technology, Pantnagar. Food Products were developed and standardized for household level and for commercialization both, which were based on cereals. Audio Visual kits for demonstration as also recipe booklets were prepared. The project achievement highlights use of millets especially finger millet, barnyard millet and foxtail millet by popping and malting and further utilization in combination with other locally grown foodstuffs to produce nutritious, acceptable health foods for vulnerable groups. Adoption of this technology at household level and commercial level will benefit people from Kumaon hill by providing proper nutrition. Gender Sensitization of Rural Women through the introduction of Agro based Vocations: A case study of Himachal Pradesh was implemented by Dr Y.S. Negi, Y.S. Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry Nauni-Solan. The project highlights that women trained in the area of commercial cultivation of flower crops and vegetables in both managerial and marketing skills were found capable of establishing a strong agro based vocation unit of their own. Dr (Ms) Saroj S.