 Trees raised by vegetative method of propagation have characteristics identical to that of the mother plants and produce fruits of similar size and taste. The only care that needs to be taken is that after detaching the suckers from the mother plants, the cut portion from where suckers have been removed must be plasterd; otherwise, the exposed portion make the tree susceptible to attack by a grub locally known as ‘dhal kitak’ (Kutch, Gujarat). 22 Ratoon crop of banana Generally, farmers take only one harvest of banana and do not allow the plants to grow suckers and remove the main plants after harvesting. A few farmers take a ratoon crop once. It is believed that after one season or two, the yield of fruits is reduced and so the plant is removed. Farmers of Kutch district, have been taking the crop continuously by retaining the plants for last 20 years. They allow all the healthy suckers to grow and remove mother plant, after two or three harvesting. They have been weeding crop only two or three times a year and applies organic manure twice in a year crop which has been standing in the same field for last 20 years. Over the years, it has been found that the tree produces highest yield in its second year of harvesting, but the yield stabilizes from third year onwards up to the tenth year when the average yield is around 15 - 20 kg. But sometimes the fruits may be small (Katch, Gujarat). Khodiyar (1996) 23 Checking the sprouting of suckers in banana by use of kerosene oil In banana crop, three to four months after sowing, the sucker, (lateral shoot which emerges from primary roots of the plant) start sprouting near the plants. Since it absorbs nutrients and water from the same root, it hampers the growth and development of plant and its fruits. Farmers remove the sucker by cutting it as and when it appears. But it regenerates again and again from the same place. Hence, it requires lots of labour and continuous care to check its growth. Patel (1995d) 165 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference About 8-10 desuckering operations are required during the whole crop life. Farmers have devised very interesting method to curtail the re-occurrence of suckers. They cut each sucker from the ground level and make 1-2 inch deep hole by inserting a pointed iron stake on the open cut surface from where sucker was removed. Then kerosene is poured into it drop by drop. This delays resprouting of the sucker. It takes three months to reappear instead of the normal one month it takes without this treatment. The same practice is followed every time, while removing the suckers. Overall this treatment reduces the number of the desuckering operations to two or three instead of 8-10 and save labour cost and time (Kheda, Gujarat). 24 ‘Kalika’ technique of onion cultivation Onion is one of the major crops of Nimar Valley. Onion covers more than 3,000 ha. area only in East Nimar (Khandwa).