 The litter gives warmth to the birds during winter. If litter management is proper, it will be felt quite warm when taken in hand. Litter can be made from straw, sawdust, or wood shavings to the floor. Not only will this provide insulation for the birds’ feet, but it will absorb feces better and is easier to clean. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 111 Birds release a lot of moisture in their breath and droppings which adversely affects their health, if there is restricted ventilation; it causes ammonia to build up in the air which causes respiratory problems. Ensure the supply of fresh air circulating around the house. Maintain the proper ventilation in poultry house. Keep the curtain open in the daytime. There should also be arrangement of exhaust fans to remove impure air. Deworming of chicks should be carried out with piprazine mixed in drinking water. To protect chickens from winter, Gunny bags/sacks should be planted around the farm. December Month Cattle and Buffalo This month have very cold environment, so provide a shelter for cattle and buffalo to get them out of the elements. Providing deep, clean, dry bedding is essential to keep the animals warm. An animal’s nutrient requirements also go up as the temperature drops, especially in wet conditions followed by extreme cold. Feed more roughages (like hay, straws, etc.) or forages (Berseem) to maintain the milk production and body heat of the dairy animals. Roughages are generally preferable over concentrates due to their lower cost and greater heat release during digestion. If the grains are costly or not available, then the use of oil cakes such as mustard oil cake, cotton seed cake, etc. can be fed. Seed cakes suffice the protein requirements of the animal and boost production. Cattle and buffalo need more calories to keep themselves warm, especially cattle with less than moderate body condition. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 112 Keep a close eye on your herd to watch for additional signs of stress caused by cold weather. Older animal, animal with previous health issues and calves are the groups most susceptible to the cold weather. Provide lukewarm water for drinking purpose. Drop off milk samples for culture if cattle are having mastitis issues. Sheep and Goat Goats are the hardy animals possessing thick coat of hairs and require least to be look after in winters. However, a night shelter should be provided to house goats to prevent them from chilling winds. Kid/lamb born in winter is more prone to cold stress or hypothermia. Bedding should be provided to protect them from cold floor. Young stock should be provided with protective shedding to prevent heat loss from the body and providing warmth which can be made from gunny bags, sacks, blankets, etc. During harsh winters, adult animals should also be covered for preventing heat loss. Foot health is an extremely important part of sheep and goat care.