 This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc. This Handbook will provide information of available useful technologies to educate on how to reduce or judiciously use chemical pesticides, safeguard ourselves from chronic poisoning, save the National environment while also reducing input costs and raise farmers’ income. This compilation will be useful to teachers, students, trainers, line-department personnel and policy makers. TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-x + 768 • Price : ` 1500 • Postage : Rs 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-179-6 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2020 43 Agri-Business Incubation ‘O NE tree – several products’ goes the byline in the wrapper of coconut products developed at ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI). But the coconut products in Indian market are only copra, oil, desiccated coconut and tender coconut. Of the total production of 20 billion coconuts in the country, 85% are harvested as mature coconuts (10-12 months old) and the remaining as tender coconuts (7-8 months old). More than half the quantity of mature nuts produced (54%) are utilized for domestic and religious purposes; 40% for making copra and only a meager 6% is absorbed by the industry for converting into value added products, chiefly the desiccated coconut. The coconut industry had developed in the country without much institutional/academic support except for few gadgets such as manually Agri-Business Incubation for Small-holder Plantation Crops K Muralidharan and S Jayasekhar ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kasaragod, Kerala 671 124 Coconut, arecanut and cocoa are the important small-holder plantation crops of India which exert profound influence on the rural economy by supporting the livelihoods of 25 million people in the country.