 To monitor the activities of training centres, 4 Field Coordinators were appointed during 2016-17. Two days’ orientation programme for Centre Incharges was organized at ICAR, Headquarters, New Delhi during 19-20 January, 2017 wherein a detailed discussion was held on the modalities of conducting training programmes, financial guidelines, administrative procedures and syllabus for training program and all the Centre In-charges were informed accordingly. A one-day review workshop was also conducted under the chairmanship of Hon’ble Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare during 18-19 April, 2017 at NRC on Integrated Farming, Motihari (Bihar) for the Centre Incharges of PDDUUKSY of different zones to know the status of training programmes organized by respective centres and to get feedback from the participants, to plan future programmes and to prepare roadmap of new strategies to be implemented during 2017-18. During the year under report, 174 trainings were conducted at different Farmers’ Training Centres under the supervision of different SAUs/CAUs/ DUs/ICAR-Institutes, wherein 5,268 farmers were trained and benefited by these training programmes. Reforms initiated by Agricultural Education Division • Agricultural Education Division declared Agriculture and its allied disciplines as Professional Degrees • Developed minimum standards for Establishment of New Colleges • Enhanced National Talent Scholarship (NTS) for UG from ` 1,000 to Rs 2,000/month • Introduction of NTS for PG Students @ ` 3,000/ month • Development of Agricultural Education Portal (EKTA) by integrating Student Portal, Grants, Accreditation and Online Examination Management System • Online Counselling System initiated • Online Project Proposal Submission and Grant Management through http://education.icar.gov.in started • ICAR Data Centre established at IASRI, New Delhi • Implemented Academic Management System for Deemed Universities of ICAR. ICAR-NATIONAL ACADEMY OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT The National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) focuses on creation, dissemination and application of knowledge through its academic, training, research, consultancy and policy support programmes. The Academy expanded its activities to reach all stakeholders of NARES. The Academy has also widened the scope of its activities and initiated academic programmes in agricultural and technology management to develop a new generation of young leaders and managers who can contribute to sustainable agricultural development at the national level. The Academy organized: • 64 need-based and mandated capacity building programmes. • 1,003 participants registered for online certificate course, viz.