 Identification of the activities which are impacting watercourses at a local or regional scale allows appropriate management plans to be designed. Taking the WFD as an example, section 1.4 of that directive stipulates that member states must identify the type and magnitude of anthropogenic pressures to which water bodies in each river basin distract are subject, via both diffuse and point sources. Pressures are categorized into urban, industrial, agricultural, and other, and must be accompa- nied by characterization of land use. The 2018 report on the status and pressures influencing WFD attainment indicated that agriculture is the primary driver of diffuse source pollution, with 38% of surface waters failing to reach targets as a consequence. At the time of writing (2020) results indicate that 29% of EU groundwater (by area) exhibits poor chemical status as a result of agriculture with 9% impacted by abstraction, primarily for irrigation (European Environment Agency, 2018). Agricultural pressures Nutrients Application of organic and inorganic fertilizers is crucial for maintaining the fertility of agricultural soils and sustaining plant growth. Organic fertilizers include livestock manures and slurry, biosolids, composts, and seaweeds. Synthetic or ‘chemical’ Encyclopedia of Inland Waters, 2nd edition https://doi.org/10.1016/B978-0-12-819166-8.00096-7 47 fertilizers include refined or processed nutrients which are extracted from mineral resources held within rock reserves (e.g., phosphorus) or converted from other forms (e.g., transformation of gaseous to mineral nitrogen (N) via the Haber-Bosch process). There is an increasing emphasis to use organic wastes from a variety of sources, as this reduces reliance on finite, mineral stores and allows recycling of agricultural and processing by-products. However, research is needed into the agronomic availability and environmental footprint of organic sources, as well as technical and infrastructural supports. Ideally, nutrients would be applied at times and in quantities which allow them to be completely utilized by the growing plant, whether that is a crop which will be harvested for anthropogenic use or grass/forage which will be grazed by livestock and recycled within a closed agricultural system. Such systems are considered to be ‘balanced’ (Fig. 1). Achieving this balance, however, is rarely simple. Inefficiencies in the utilization of applied nutrients by plants, processes of attenuation and immobilization in soil, rainfall patterns, and hydrologic pathways all reduce the balance of the system and allow nutrients to be lost to water or the atmosphere. Furthermore, poor nutrient management by the farmer, including both over-application and mis-timing of fertilizers relative to crop requirements or weather patterns can encourage greater losses.