 ICAR-CIPHET developed a process for preparation of rose petal jam without using any fruits or vegetables or their powder or essence but with the desired quality of the end product, i.e. jam. The developed process comprised formulation of rose petals, sweeteners and permitted food additives, paste preparation without affecting the colour quality and antioxidant activity, and the process for preparation of jam with good sensory quality. POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 98 fell prey to adulteration. Turmeric is known to be adulterated with metanil yellow and/ or lead chromate; red chilli with Sudan and/or Rhodamine dye, in coriander starch is added in bulk and black pepper is adulterated with papaya since both papaya and black pepper seeds have similar appearances. Dyes are generally added to give bright and attractive colour to the spice. However, these dyes are non-permitted and carcinogenic. Need is always there to develop simple, quick and easy methods so that the pure and adulterated powder samples can be differentiated. Keeping this in view ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana has developed biochemical tests based testing kit for detection of above mentioned adulterants in turmeric, red chillies, black pepper, and coriander. The method of detection is quick and simple to perform and also validated by NABL accredited Punjab Biotechnology Incubator Laboratory, Mohali. Approximate cost for the kit involving six tests with 100 tests (each) is around ` 5,000. The kit contains chemicals, glassware and procedure for detection of adulterants, viz. metanil yellow, lead chromate, sudan dye, rhodamine, starch and papaya seed powder from spices. Soy based composite edible film: Soybean aqueous extract was used as the main ingredient for the development of an edible film with different additives which increased the water barrier, mechanical and anti- bacterial properties. The water barrier property of the film ranged from 5.3 to 9.2×10–10 g/ms Pa. The tensile strength of the film varied from 5.1 to 8.2 MPa, which is higher than similar composite edible films. The elongation of the film ranged from 70 to 88%. The edible film was used as a packaging material for the instant masalas of ready-to-cook noodles. Sensory evaluation of the film showed very good consumer acceptability of the product with an overall acceptability score of 7.80 out of 10. The film was also tested as a cheese slice separator in cheese packaging. The people. Flax seed consumption in the diet prevents serious diseases like coronary diseases, cancer, diabetes, obesity, gastrointestinal, renal and bone disorders. Chia (Salvia hispanica) seeds are rich in protein, dietary fibre, minerals, vitamins and antioxidants. Chia gum is also an important food ingredient due to its emulsifier and stabilizer potentials. To utilize nutrients in flax seed and chia especially -linolenic acid, chocolate cake was fortified with flax seed meal and chia gel.