 Mandate and activities • To undertake basic and applied research for developing technologies for improvement and increased productivity in citrus. • To act as a repository for genetic resources and scientific information relating to citrus. • To undertake research to develop technologies for better shelf life and utilization of citrus fruits considering domestic and export needs. • To act as a Centre for training in advanced research methodologies and technology upgradation in citrus. • To collaborate with relevant national and international organizations/ Govt. agencies for citrus research and technology dissemination. • To provide consultancy services and undertake contract research to solve the problems of citrus industry 3. Salient achievements • The protocol for containerized disease-free planting material of citrus standardized and till date more than 50 lakhs disease-free plants of different cultivars of citrus has been produced and distributed. • Institute has released nine varieties viz., Cutter Valencia, Flame Grapefruit, NRCC Pummelo-5, NRCC mandarin seedless-4, NRCC Acid lime-7, NRCC Acid lime-8, Pummelo US-145, NRCC Grapefruit-6 and Alemow rootstock. Three varieties viz., Cutter Valencia, Flame Grapefruit and NRCC Pummelo-5 released by SVRC, Maharashtra for cultivation in Maharashtra. Horticultural Science 61 Horticultural Science 61 • STG and micro-budding technique standardized for scientific citrus nursery development. • Diagnostic tools for insect-pest and diseases has been developed for sensitive detection and also eco-friendly management. • Developed and commercialized value added products viz., RTS and carbonated beverages from acid lime, Nagpur mandarin and nutri-jelly from acid lime. 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products other services available for different stake holders • Protocol for containerized disease-free planting material of citrus standardized. • Micro-budding technique standardized for scientific citrus nursery development. • Protocol for value added products. • Diagnostic tools for insect-pest and diseases has been developed. • Training module for producing disease free planting material. Nagpur mandarin NRCC Acid lime 62 ICAR Institutes Profile 62 ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CIAH, Sri Ganganagar Rd, Bichhwal, Beechhwal Rural, Rajasthan 334006 ii. Name of the Director: Dr DK Samadiya (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.ciah@icar.gov.in; Phone No: 0151-2250147 2. Mandate and activities • Basic, strategic and applied research to enhance sustainable productivity, quality and utilization of horticultural crops of arid and semi-arid regions. • Repository of genetic resources and scientific information on horticultural crops of arid and semi-arid region. • Transfer of technology, capacity building and impact assessment of technologies. • Coordinate research and validation of technologies on fruit crops of arid and semi-arid regions. 3.