 On this occasion, honorary doctorate degrees were awarded to Padmashri Smt Tulsigowda of Uluvare Village (Ankola taluk) and Padmashri Shri Abdul Khadar Imamsab Nadakattin, Founder of Vishwashanthi Agricultural Research Centre, Annigeri in recognition of their services rendered in various fields. During this convocation, a total of 966 candidates were awarded degrees, including 71 PhD, 269 postgraduate and 626 undergraduate degrees. Along with this, 38 Agricultural University Gold Medals, six other Gold Medals and nine Cash Prizes were also awarded. Director of Extension & Director, SAMETI (North) Yettinagudda Campus, Krishinagar ICAR-University of Agricultural Science Dharwad-580 005 (KARNATAKA) E-mail: de@uasd.in 14 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Visit The Hon’ble Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR visited North Bengal on the occasion of the Golden Jubilee of KVKs 6 April 2023, Kolkata. To commemorate the Golden Jubilee of KVKs, a special function was organized on 5 April 2023, at KVK Cooch Behar of North Bengal under the aegis of ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute (ATARI), Kolkata. Dr Himanshu Pathak, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR, flagged off of the Millet Procession, a yearlong celebration of International Year of Millet 2023. He mentioned that KVKs as frontline extension institutions, played a unique role in the arena of technology transfer in Indian agriculture. Dr Swarup Kumar Chakraborty, Vice-Chancellor of Uttar Banga Krishi Viswavidyalaya (UBKV), lauded the efforts of all KVK Staff for their outstanding service to the farming community. Twelve progressive farmers including women farmers as well as FPO representatives were felicitated by the Hon’ble Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR on the occasion. Exhibition by FPOs mobilized by KVK was also organized to showcase their activities. A bulletin on “Natural Farming for Sustainability”, in the local language for the benefit of farmers was also released on the occasion. Director ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute Bidhannagar, Kolkata, West Bengal 700 097 Dr SK Chaudhary, Hon’ble DDG (NRM) Visited ICAR-IISWC RC, Datia 12 April 2023, Dehradun. Dr SK Chaudhary, Hon’ble DDG (NRM) Visited ICAR-IISWC RC, Datia on 7 April 2023. He congratulated the Institute on the celebration of the 70th Foundation Day of the Institute and dedicated a new tractor to the centre. Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation 218-Kaulagarh Road Dehradun, Uttarakhand 248 195 Hon’ble Dr Abhilaksh Likhi, IAS, OSD, Ministry of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying visited ICAR-NBFGR 9 May 2023, Lucknow. ICAR-National Bureau of Fish Genetic Resources, Lucknow, was visited by Dr Abhilaksh Likhi, IAS, Officer on Special Duty, Department of Fisheries, Government of India, held an interactive walk-the-talk meeting with the fish farmers on 8 May 2023.