 Why seed production programme ofBN Btand Bt NHH 44 was suspended? It seems there was contamination of other events in BN-Bt and hence seed production of BN Bt and Bt NHH44 were suspended until further clarifications. - - - - - - - Following are the reply on the discussions had with Dr. L. Krishna Naik, Special Officer (Seeds) from Dec.2008 - July 2010, Director of Extension Education up to Dec. 2010 and Director of Research from Nov.2011 on March 24, 2012 Q 1) Were you associated with the seed production of 'BN Bt' and 'Bt NHH 44'? - No. The season was over by the time I took the change of Special Officer (Seeds) (Dec.2008). Q 2) Did you visit seed production plot ofBN Bt and that ofBt NHH 44? - No. Q 3) Did anybody inform about variation and rouging in BN Bt? - No. Q 4) Was there any serious problem of variation? - Not aware. Q 5) Did Dr Katageri visit seed production plot? If so, how many times (approximate)? Did he observed variation? If so, what remedial measure taken to remove any off-types? - This was not brought to the notice. Q 6) What class of seed of BN Bt was produced and supplied to ClCR Nagpur? - It was 11... only. Q 7) You said it was TL seed and you informed about that to CICR not to use the seed for hybrid seed production of Bt NHH 44. Please confirm. If it is so, can we get relevant correspondence? - It was 11... only because BN Bt was not notified variety and was just than developed. Q 8) You have worked as special Officer (Seeds) when seed of BN Bt and Bt NHH 44 were produced, and then Director of Extension Education and Now you are Director of Research. You may be aware of the fact of Dr Katageri proceeding on training in 2005-06. Do you remember to whom the responsibilities of looking after the material was given in Dr Katageri absence, name and designation of the scientist(s) responsible for BN Bt 46 development programme in the absence of Dr Katageri from Oct. 2005 to ApriI2006? - The issue concerned to in charge arrangement of Dr.I.S. Kargeri while proceeding on training during 2005-06 is not known to me. However, as per the office records obtained from station Head and the arrangement was as follows. Copy enclosed. Q 9) We understand that Dr SS Patil and Dr Manjula did not see eye-to-eye with Dr Katageri and both these scientists did not take interest or monitor work. Any comment. - It is difficult to comment as I had no association with the Scientists working then in the station. Q 10) In such scenario, should the need of Station (Dr SS Patil) should have informed the senior about the manner in which he and Dr Manjula performed their duties due to inter-personal relationship. - In this regard the official attachment with respect to responsibilities entrusted to the official should answer. Signature: sdJ- 16.4.2012 - - - - - - X)tscu'ssion wlUt Dr CV Mansur. Professor-of Agronomy Ott i\{arch 24. 2(l12 -'f~ . r l. • '1. 2. J. Are you-wotkinG in dcpartme'nt ofOAS. Ob9:("A~, please'! \'ourdesignmlonplease? ~ ~~.