 National Dairy Plan Phase I (NDP I) This is also a centrally sponsored scheme (2011-12 to 2018-19), which aims to provide technical and implementation support to the states through credit-based system through DAHD&F. The NDP 1 is a scientifically planned multi-state initiative with the objectives to help increasing the productivity of milch animals and help to provide rural milk producers with greater access to the organized milk processing sector. NDP 1 focuses on 14 major milk producing states namely Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Kerala, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh and West Bengal which together account 90% of country’s milk production. 5.2.7. Rashtriya Gokul Mission Rashtriya Gokul Mission (RGM) with two components namely; National Programme for Bovine Breeding (NPBB) and National Mission on Bovine Productivity (NMBP) which are being implemented through “State Implementing Agencies” (SIA) viz. Livestock Development Boards/ State Goseva Aayogs. All agencies having a role in indigenous cattle development such as Central Frozen Semen Production & Training Institute (CFSPTI), Central Cattle Breeding Farms (CCBFs), ICAR, universities, Colleges, NGO‟s, Cooperative Societies, NGOs and Gaushalas are also involved. The main objectives of RGM are: 1) to undertake breed improvement programme for indigenous breeds so as to improve the genetic makeup and increase the stock, 2) to enhance milk production and productivity of indigenous bovines, 3) to upgrade nondescript breeds using elite indigenous breeds like Gir, Sahiwal, Rathi, Deoni, Tharparkar, Red Sindhi and 4) to distribute disease free high genetic merit bulls of indigenous breeds for natural service. There is plan to establish National Kamdhenu Breeding Centre in two states. 6. Conclusion In India, the dynamics of cattle production is evolving at a greater pace to meet the consumers’ demands especially the livestock products. Contrarily, the pattern of cattle production in developed countries is directed to build potential production systems that include populations that are efficient in feed conversion and adaptability to new environments, lower demand Improvement of Indigenous Cattle: Gandhian Perspectives 38 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR levels for livestock products is the one such reason for this scenario. The genetic improvement programs under AICRP and government run schemes since first five-year plan onwards have brought significant achievement in augmenting milk production in the country. The genetic improvement in indigenous breeds and development of crossbreds using exotic breeds has been the major tools for the increase in production in productivity of cattle populations. The great deal of biodiversity of cattle germplasm is basic and essential resource for sustained growth in dairy sector. ICAR is determined to characterize the remaining 73% of cattle germplasm.