 Allogenic/xenogenic acellular grafts in the reconstruction (repair of tendon defect) in bovids Antigenicity of allogenic/xenogenic tendon grafts is the main prohibitive factor for their use in tendon reconstructive surgery. A hypothesis is that their antigenicity can be reduced/minimized if they are made acellular. Tendon grafts of allogenic/ heterogenic origin were collected from the abattoir. These grafts were made acellular by chemical treatment and the technique for making graft acellular was standardized. During in vitro and in vivo biocompatibility testing, these acellular grafts were less immunogenic and imflammogenic. The acellular grafts were used to repair 2 cm long defect of flexor tendon in buffalo calves. Clinically, the grafts were acceptable. Gross observation revealed absorption of graft by day 90 and replacement by neoformed tissue. Histological observation did not reveal any untoward reaction. Modalities for the prevention of adhesion formation after tendon surgery Different modalities were evaluated for preventing the adhesions. They were evaluated on the basis of clinical, radiological, angiographical, gross, histological and scanning-electron microscopic observations. Administration of autogenous synovia and 1% hyaluronic acid at the reconstructive site of tendon twice weekly on 4 occasions was effective. Therapeutic ultrasonic therapy starting from day 3 post-operatively was also effective in preventing peritendinous adhesion formation following tendon surgery. Showing creation of 2.5 cm defect in superficial digital flexor tedon. (top) Repair of defect with plasma preserved allogenic graft.(second-from-top) Repair of defect with two strands (each strand containing 6000 filaments having diameter of 7.5 micron each) of carbon fibres (middle) Longitudinal split section of neoformed tendon around fibres on day 30 post repair. (bottom-but- one) Neoformed tendon on day 90 post repair having similarities with tendon.(bottom) Split section of figure 5. Scanning electron microscope photograph showing neo tendon growth between carbon fibre filaments. X1000. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 116 ANIMAL NUTRITION AND ANIMAL PHYSIOLOGY ANIMAL NUTRITION National Information System on Feed Resources l The information system on availability and requirement of feed resources and feed balance sheet for all the states in the country, was brought out in a compact disc—Feedbase 2001. It comprises NIANP, Feed Resources, Animal Resources and Balance Sheet modules. It provides information on availability of feed resources in terms of crop residues, greens and concentrates for all the states from 1985 to 2000. Assessment of the availability of desired feed resources in a particular year/period of years across the different states, would also be possible. l Animal resources data provide information on animal resources availability for cattle, buffalo, sheep and goat for all the states individually, and the country as a whole.