 yy Use cue lure pheromone trap @ 15-20 numbers/ ha to control fruit flies in cucurbit crops. yy Scheduling spray of neem formulation insecticide in the crop under the protected cultivation for management of sucking pest and also install yellow and blue sticky trap for monitoring aphid and white fly etc. especially for management of virus infestation in king chilli. D. Advisories for Livestock yy For control of African Swine Fever, Risk-based prevention and surveillance programs, adequate bio-security in pig production, pig traceability and movement control, wild boar management, safe culling and disposal of animals should be done. yy Daily supplementation of liquid calcium @ 70-80 ml is very much essential for milking cows for getting optimum production and productivity. yy Ensure deworming of goats (Albendazole or any broad spectrum anthelmentics @ 7.5 mg/ kg body weight) especially young kids before the start of rainy season. yy In case of pregnant does, pregnancy safe anthelmintic (Fenbendazole@ 5 mg/kg body weight) should be administered 15 days prior to expected date of kidding. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 87 yy Farmers are advised to contact the district veterinary office for routine vaccination of live stocks especially like RD, FMD and diseases of pigs. yy Due to prevailing weather condition of high humidity and frequent rainfall it is utmost necessary to change the litter materials of poultry shed frequently to prevent Coccidiosis infection. yy Feed materials of poultry should store properly to avoid possible fungal growth due to prevailing hot and humid weather condition. yy Animals should be kept in shade and provide cold and clean water for drinking. yy The roof of the livestock shade should be covered with grass/ straw to protect from heat. E. Advisories for Fisheries yy During fish species selection for stocking, include fast growing breeds like Amur carp and Jayanti Rahu along with other candidate species. yy Eradicate unwanted fish and aquatic plants as pre-stocking management. yy Apply lime @ 400-500 kg/ha/yr and its one third dose should be applied as basal dose prior to 20-25days days of fish seed stocking and rest is used in monthly instalment basis. yy After 10-15 days of lime application, apply basal dose of organic manure @ one third of total dose i.e., 10000 kg/ha/yr. yy Maintain proper stocking density and size for better yield i.e., 5000-6000 nos. of fingerlings not less than 10 cm size. yy If EUS (Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome) disease outbreaks in monsoon season then apply CIFAX @1 lit./ha of water body. yy After every netting operation use KMnO4 @ 5ppm as disinfectants for crafts and gear (fishing materials like nets and other devices) used. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 88 KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA, SOUTH SIKKIM, NAMTHANG 1.