 Mansukh (1992) 14 Control of termite by burning grass In summer, useless grass and roots of plants are gathered and burnt in the field. Anonymous (1991e) 15 Termite control by Calotropis Calotropis leaves are immersed in water for two days. Later, the extract of this is diluted with water and applied at the place of termite attack. This method is quite cost effective (Pondicherry). Vairakannu (2000-2001b) 50 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 16 Control of termite through sorghum soaked water Farmers place the green cut plant of sorghum in the main water channel. The water passing over it is believed to minimize infestation of termite. HCN contained in sorghum stalk of one month or 40-days-old has toxic effect on termites (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Desai (1991c) 17 Control of termite Root of Nagali (Eleusine coracana) and leaves of Naffatiya (Ipomoea fistulosa) are boiled and cooled. Decoction is filtered and sprayed on termite affected plants. Sometimes it is poured on the base of stem so that it slips into root area (Dang, Gujarat). Pandubhai (1992) 18 Termite control by use of neem cake Neem cake as top-dressing controls termites (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 19 Control of nematode in turmeric by intercropping with marigold When marigold (Tagetes erecta) is grown as an inter crop with turmeric (Curcuma longa), nematode pests disappear (Madurai, Tamil Nadu). Vivekanandan (1999b) 20 Control of nematodes in wheat by mixed sowing with carrot Farmers used to broadcast seeds of carrot along with wheat. Carrot plants are removed during first and second weeding, once the wheat gets established. Many farmers of Jaipur believe that carrot prevents nematodes infestation (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Sharma (1996a) 21 Control of ants in climbers by use of kerosene oil Cotton cloth dipped in kerosene is tied to control the movement of ants on the climbers. Due to irritating effect of kerosene, ants and other insects get repelled (Pondicherry). Vairakannu (2000– 2001a) 22 Seed treatment to control ants by use of kerosene oil Dip cucumber and bean seeds in kerosene before sowing as kerosene acts as an insect repellent (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 23 Bajagun weed for reducing rat menace Common cowitch Mucuna prurita (bajagun), a leguminous herbacious annual plant is found throughout the plains of India. Its turgid pods are covered with dense pale brown or grey stinging bristles (trichomes) which upon coming in contact with the skin cause discomfort and itching. This is attributed to the presence of a histamine-liberating proteinase, mucunain. The effect persists for 3–5 minutes. These hair also contain serotonin which causes cutaneous pain, besides itching. An age old Verma (1998) 51 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.