 • Post-Harvest preservation: Plasma treatments can also be employed post-harvest to extend the shelf life of crops by reducing spoilage caused by pathogens and maintaining the quality of fruits and vegetables. Low-temperature plasma in plasma agriculture presents a promising and sustainable approach to improve crop production and reduce the environmental impact of conventional agricultural practices. However, further research is required to optimize plasma application techniques and fully understand its effects on different crop types and agricultural systems. Several methods, including dielectric barrier discharge, microwave plasma, and atmospheric pressure plasma, can be used to produce this plasma field. The energy that plasma releases when it comes in contact with crops stimulates their growth and boosts their resilience to pests and disease. Plasma can also be used to surround plants with a barrier that shields them from disease and pests. In organic farming, where the use of chemical pesticides is prohibited, this can be extremely helpful. Indian Farming 19 October 2023 Benefits of plasma agriculture Plasma agriculture has several benefits that make it a promising technology for sustainable farming. Some of these benefits include: • Higher crop yield: Plasma agriculture has been proven to boost crop yield by up to 30% with even lesser resources, thus addressing the issue of food security. • Reduced pesticide use: Plasma agriculture has been demonstrated to strengthen the plant’s immune system, making it more resistant to pests and illnesses. This lessens the need for pesticides that are damaging to the environment and people’s health. • Increased nutritional value: Plasma agriculture has been demonstrated to improve plant nutrient uptake, leading to increased nutritional value of the crops. This might enhance the nutritional value of food. • Reduced environmental impact: Plasma agriculture may lessen the adverse environmental effects of farming by using less of pesticides, fertilisers, and water. • Soil regeneration: Plasma agriculture can aid in the regeneration of degraded soils by raising nutrient availability and enhancing soil structure. The demand for toxic pesticides and herbicides can be reduced by plasma treatment by decreasing soil-borne infections. • Water efficiency: Plasma technology can reduce the amount of water up to 50% through the plant’s capacity for water absorption and minimising water loss through transpiration. • Reduced carbon footprint: Plasma agriculture is a low-carbon farming technique that can aid in lowering greenhouse gas emissions. • Plasma agriculture could mitigate climate change through enhanced plant growth, reduced fertilizer and pesticide use, improved soil health, waste reduction and water conservation.