 The rents paid by the tenants during the pre- independence period were quite high. With the enactment of legislation for regulating the rent payable by the cultivators, fair rent was fixed at 20 per cent to 25 per cent of the gross produce level in all states, except Punjab, Haryana, Jammu and Kashmir, Tamil Nadu and some parts of Andhra Pradesh. Ceilings on Landholdings: In simpler terms, the ceilings on landholdings referred to legally stipulating the maximum size beyond which no individual farmer or farm household could hold on any land. The imposition of such a ceiling was to deter concentration of land in the hands of a few. In 1942, the Kumarappan Committee recommended the maximum size of lands three times the economic holding, i.e., the sufficient livelihood for a family. But the ceiling limits varied from state to state. With these reforms, each state was to identify and take possession of the surplus land (above the ceiling limit) held by each household and redistribute it to landless families and households. The negative impact of this was observed in Bihar. The state used to be surplus in rice, wheat and was known as a sugar bowl of India but after ceiling of landholdings Bihar become food-deficient state. Consolidation of Landholdings: The growing population and less work opportunities in non-agricultural sectors, increased pressure on the land, leading to an increased trend of fragmentation of the landholdings. This fragmentation of land made irrigation management tasks and personal supervision of the land very difficult. This led to the introduction of landholdings consolidation. This reform brought down the cost of cultivation and reduced litigation among farmers as well. The multiple subdivisions across generations have reduced even the sub divisions to a very small size. It has now been argued by the NITI Aayog and some sections of the industry that land leasing should be adopted on a large scale to enable landholders with unviable holdings to lease out land for investment, thereby enabling greater 210 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series income and employment generation in rural areas. This would be facilitated by the consolidation of landholdings. Modern land reforms measures such as land record digitisation need to be accomplished at the earliest. Key takeaways To enhance productivity of land along with research, land-use pattern needs to be revisited. The need of the hour is innovative and scientific land reforms. 211 Social Issues and Sports MY JOURNEY TO SUCCESS M.C. Mary Kom Mary Kom’s journey is an inspiration to thousands of Indians, especially Indian women. She was born in Kagathei village, Moirang Lamkhai in Churachandpur district of rural Manipur in India. Her parents were tenant farmers, who worked in jhum fields. Kom grew up in humble surroundings, helping her parents with farm-related chores, going to school and learning athletics initially and later boxing also.