 Operationalization of the recommendations of the O and M Task Force Sub-committee on Administrative Matters: The recommendations of the Sub- Committee on Administrative Matters of the O & M Task Force, popularly known as Mehta Committee, were sent to all the Heads of the concerned Subject Matter Divisions of the Council with the request to them for feed back for operationalization/ implementation in the ICAR with the approval of the competent authority. The report is thus under examination. Operationalization of the recommendations of O and M Task Force Sub-Committee on Agricultural Extension of ICAR: The Extension Division has accepted all the recommendations of the sub-committee for its implementation by the Krishi Vigyan Kendras but for the recommendation which states the Trainers’ Training Centres (TTCs) have lost their relevance and be abolished and their work should be entrusted to the ICAR/State Agricultural Universities. The Extension Division has communicated the acceptance of the recommendations to all the Zonal Co-ordinators for implementation and transmission to all the Krishi Vigyan Kendras for improving their effectiveness. Report of the Review of the ICAR Institutes: The recommendations of the Consultants are multidisciplinary in nature and relate to various Heads of the Subject Matter Divisions of the Council. The key recommendations and action points arising out of the report of the consultants have been sorted out and put up for the approval of the competent authority. The report is thus under examination. Report on the Finance and Audit, Budget and Procurement System Reforms: National Institute of Financial Management (NIFM) had revised the report after a follow up of the meeting held on 29 April, 2001. The revised report was again discussed in a meeting held on 25 October, 2002 under the Chairmanship of Additional Secretary, DARE and Financial Adviser DARE wherein an officer of NIFM also participated. During the course of deliberations it was emerged that the revision in the report was however, only marginal and fell quite short of expectations. It was pointed out that the revision did not re-structure the report as desired, so as to make it specific to activities relating to items of expenditure. After considerable deliberations, it was agreed that the NIFM would further revise the report to incorporate the Sub-Sections/Sections as suggested in the meeting. It was also agreed that once the NIFM had brought out the Report as indicated above, the ICAR officials would visit the NIFM for updating/making further correction of the Report. Training: Keeping in view the importance of the Human Resource Development, various training programmes were conducted in various training institutions of repute for 18 officials from Scientific, Technical, Administrative and Finance categories during the reported period.