com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 2 7 Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) Vaccine yy Haemorrhagic Septicaemia (HS) is mainly caused by the bacterium Pasteurella multocida type B:2 and affects cattle and buffalo. yy HS vaccine is available in India as formaldehyde inactivated culture of P. multocida with aluminium hydroxide gel adjuvant or oil adjuvant or alum precipitated vaccine. yy First vaccination is done at 4-6 months of age and then repeated annually at least 15-20 days prior monsoon. yy The production of HS vaccine was started in 1923-24 at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar and supplied to the then United Provinces, Punjab, Bengal, Assam, Bihar & Orissa, Central Province, Bombay, Madras, Sind & Rajasthan and Mysore. yy Between 1942-46, about 64.0 lakh doses of vaccine were produced and supplied to almost all parts of country and military organizations. In 1956, HS adjuvanted vaccine also started to be manufactured and in the year 1962-63 approximately 9.7 lakh doses of adjuvanted HS vaccine and 6.3 lakh doses of plain HS vaccine were produced. yy Subsequently, after the transfer of technology and training imparted by ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar to State biological products units, they became self sufficient. yy Vaccination has led to decrease in disease outbreaks in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 3 8 Brucella abortus Vaccine (S-19 Strain) yy Brucellosis remains one of the most common bacterial zoonosis, with over 5,00,000 human cases reported globally every year. yy Brucella spp. is highly pathogenic bacteria that affect several livestock species including cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, camel, pig, yak, dog and horse. It also affects various wild animal species viz, wild boar, deer, birds, antelopes, African buffalo and reindeer. yy Most species of Brucella can infect animals other than their preferred hosts. yy Vaccination has been successfully used as one of the most effective measures to reduce the prevalence of bovine brucellosis. yy The most effective vaccine against brucellosis is the live Brucella abortus strain 19 vaccine. ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar adopted it in 1956. yy Female calves between 4-8 months of age are vaccinated once in life time with not less than 4 x 1010 viable organisms subcutaneously. yy The production of Brucella S-19 vaccine at ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar started in the year 1962-63 and continued till 2012-13. yy Vaccination of animals using this vaccine has led to decrease in disease outbreaks in the country. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. Vivimed Labs. 4 9 yy Foot-and-Mouth Disease (FMD) is one of the most contagious transboundary animal diseases in the world, caused by FMD virus.