 As per FAO, the TiLV, reported in Israel, Columbia, Ecuador, Egypt and Thailand, is associated with significant mortalities in farmed tilapia, valued at over US$ 9.8 billion. Researchers were able to alert the Indian aquaculture industry by isolating and identifying this virus using fish cell lines. Another example is the isolation and first report of RSIV disease from India, which affects marine species, mainly red sea bream. With global production exceeding 50,000 tonnes of this species and the availability of its cell lines, it is expected that a better understanding of the pathogen and its mechanism of pathogenicity will be attained to manage the disease caused by the virus. Identification and isolation of fish nodavirus, responsible for severe mortality in sea bass hatchery, for the first time in India is another example. Other than viruses, fish cell culture has also been used in the detection of bacterial pathogens, like Estrella lausannensis, Parachlamydia acanthamoebae, Photobacterium damselae subsp. damselae, Piscirickettsia salmonis, Renibacterium salmoninarum, Rickettsia spp., Vibrio anguillarum, Waddlia chondrophila, Yersinnia ruckeri etc., which are causing huge losses in fish production. Environmental monitoring: There has been an increased usage of artificial inputs in the new aquaculture systems. Farmers facing fish health problems have resorted to manage their ponds involving the use of chemicals and therapeutics. Primary cell cultures and cell lines can be important tools in ecotoxicology studies, like the assessment of cytotoxicity and estrogenic activity of chemicals and environmental samples. One of the important advantages of using cell lines, as in vitro model, is that it enables control over both the macro and micro-environments, such as pH, osmolarity, temperature and nutrient components. Cell line produces a higher number of cells that can be replicated in low volumes and stored for a long time with good recovery. Studies on cells isolated from living organisms are routinely used to assess the safety and possible action mechanisms of drugs and other compounds. Researchers have applied cell culture methods to perceive the underlying mechanisms of the immunomodulation effects of heavy metals, pesticides, fungal toxins etc. and their relationships with the fish health. Fish cell lines also widely allow comparing different species for their relative sensitivity at the cellular level to various environmental contaminants, like heavy metals, pesticides and other aquatic pollutants coming from agricultural runoffs. Such information will be helpful in ranking pollutants on the basis of their cytotoxic effects and help in monitoring aquatic environments. The development of recombinant fish cell lines may further support their role as a bioanalytical tool for environmental assessment.