 Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2591 Use of nagphani (Cuscuta reflexa) stem pulp, garlic, turmeric, Cuscuta loranthus stem, and roots of talmakhana to cure the langri disease of animals Generally in winter season old as well as new generation animals suffer from dewlock and arthritis pain. In this condition farmers use a mixture made of nagphani stem pulp, garlic, turmeric, Cuscuta loranthus stem and roots of talmakhana. About 50 g nagphani stem pulp 25 g garlic, 40 g turmeric, 50 g bark of Cuscuta loranthus stem and 50 g roots of talmakhana are taken and crushed, and slightly fried in mustard oil.It is pasted on affected legs and then tied over with cotton cloth. This treatment is continued thrice a month after an interval of 7 days. This practice is age-old in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: nagphani (Cuscuta reflexa), garlic, turmeric, Cuscuta laranthus, talmakhana, langri disease Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2597 Use of talmakhana, bark of Ficus religiosa, amarbel, acidic soil, leaves of bamboo and tonta for curing langri disease of animals In winter season,old as well as new generation animals (cattle, cow and buffalo) suffer from dewlop pain (arthritis pain). Under such conditions, farmers Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta,  use a mixture made from 1 kg each of talmakhana root, bark of Ficus religiosa, amarbel stem, acidic soil (which is available in the foundation of old mud houses) and 500 g green leaves each of bamboo and tonta. Leaves are cut into small pieces. All these materials are put in 7 litres fresh water and boiled till the solution remains 3 litres. This solution is smeared on the affected part as well in the whole body twice a day for 15 days to get the desired results. About 65-70% problem can be cured. This is used in village Sonapur of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: talmakhana, Ficus religiosa, amarbel, acidic soil, leaf of bamboo, leaf of tonta, langri disease Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2635 Use of decoction made from mehandi, roots of talmakhana, bark of palm tree and stem of amerbel (Cassytha filiformis) to cure the dewlop pain Due to problem in the veins of dewlop, animals feel much pain and even they lift their legs in the air. Farmers call it as langri ahanawar.To cure the ailment, a decoction is made by using 250 g root of talmakhana, 250 g bark of palm tree and 250 g stem of amarbel (Cassytha filiformis) in 2 litres water. Every time about 200 ml decoction is used for washing dewlop thrice a day and it is continued up to 15 days for complete recovery.