 Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. iii. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. iv. Land holding ownership, leasing policy; v. Water management policy; vi. Implementation of centrally sponsored schemes without delay. vii. Minimum Support Price based on cost of production and profit margin; viii. Forewarning about natural calamities to the farmers; ix. Immediate relief to farmers in case of natural calamities; x. Training and sensitization to the farmers to adopt latest technique; xi. Implementation of Soil Health Card Scheme in each block. Strategy 4: Infrastructural Development i. Strengthen R&D activities in farm Universities/Institutions for providing site-specific technical support to all farm developmental agencies operating in the State. ii. Road connectivity & provision of uninterrupted power supply; iii. Strengthening infrastructure based on PPP mode, such as go-downs, iv. cold storage etc. v. Creation of modern infrastructure for preservation and processing of agri produces. Strategy 5: HRD and Extension i. Skill development training: This one of the most important flagship programmers of Govt. of India (Kaushal Vikas Se Krishi Vikas) which emphasizes that farmer’s income can be enhanced by imparting skill development training in agriculture. Due to its importance. Agriculture skill Council of India (ASCI) was established. ii. Use of ICT in extension: It is essential for rapid dissemination of customized information to the farmers for increasing the rate of adoption of innovations. iii. Farmers to farmer extension (F2FE): Farmers seek advice and information related to agriculture from fellow farmers. The NSSO date also reveals that only 40 per cent farmers had access to any source of information on modern technology. Of those who had access to such information, the highest proportion obtained information from other progressive farmers. iv. Village knowledge centre: There should be knowledge centre at Village level so that farmers get access to modern technologies in the village itself. v. Strengthening of convergence: Convergence of KVK, ATMA, Line department, bank, cooperatives etc need to be strengthened for resources as well as expertise. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 230 Strategy 6: Waste land development and waste water i. Contour making for arable purpose in waste land in Leh and other areas. ii. Afforestation of plants and perennial grasses in steep slope of more than 40% slope. iii. Promotion of plantation of seabuck thorn, wild grapes for resin purpose, wild apricot etc iv. Popularization of trenches or silages for percolation of water to avoid surface run off. v. Construction of tank for storage of water for lean season. Strategy 7: Reduced cultivation cost i.