 Improved varieties have been released in cashew (30), arecanut (4), black pepper (9), small cardamom (5), ginger (3), turmeric (14), seed spices (27), and betelvine (1). In coconut, however, apart from 5 varieties, 11 hybrids have been provided to the growers. Using soft-wood and flush-grafting, techniques standardized at the NRC for Cashew, 1.5 million cashew grafts are produced a year. Cashew development has witnessed a spectacular change as aresult. In cocoa, soft-wood grafting and patch-budding are replacing seed propagation. Pepper may now be multiplied rapidly through the splitbamboo or PVC-pipe technique developed at the IISR, Calicut. Epicotyl grafting is suitable for generating planting material in nutmeg, wherein sexuality is a problem. While approach-grafting is preferred in clove, layering has been advised in cinnamon. Both techniques have been standardized at the IISR, Calicut. In the coconut and arecanut gardens, the farmers have increased their total income, and spread it round-the-year by accommodating suitable inter-, mixed-, multiple- and multi-storeyed cropping systems. The farmers are also raising milch animals and poultry in these gardens. Productivity of black pepper (up to 1,000 kg dry pepper/ha) and cardamom (up to 770 kg dry capsules/ha) has risen remarkably because of superior high- production technologies. Bush pepper Scientists have recommended the release of Trichoderma sp. to check i Ganoderma and Thanjavur-wilt in coconut. Leaf-eating caterpillars and Oryctes rhinoceros may also be managed by releasing predators. Shortly, it would be possible to biocontrol the red-palm weevil and mites in the coconut gardens. %, Appropriate management practices have been demonstrated for various pests and diseases in plantation and spice crops — Ganoderma and root-wilt in coconut; spindle-bug in arecanut; tea-mosquito, stem -and rootborer in cashew; Phytophthora foot-rot; pollu-beetle and top shoot-borer in black pepper; i katte virus in small cardamom; seedling-rot, leaf-spot, leaf-rust, leaf-blight and For supra-optimal production in difficult areas PACKAGE OF PRACTICES FOR BLACK PEPPER In Phytophthora-affected gardens adopt phytosanitary guidelines to curb disease incidence; replant gardens with higher-yielding varieties; apply balanced fertilizers; incorporate 5 kg farmyard manure and 1 kg neem cake per standard/vine annually and ensure appropriate plant protection. RESULT: 1,000 kilos of dry pepper per hectare, 4 times the average national yield. FOR CARDAMOM In katte-affected gardens: plant with improved varieties, regulate shade, soil moisture and drainage and practice plant protection. RESULT: 770 kg of dry cardamom capsules per hectare.