 For further interaction, please write to: 1ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Manipur Centre, Lamphelpat, Manipur 2ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kalyan- Ukhrul, Hungpung 3Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat 4ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi *Corresponding author: arati.ningombam@icar.gov.in November–December 2023 109 T HERE is a growing interest in the area of entrepreneurship globally during the last couple of decades. The latest to join the bandwagon are the faculty-led startups that are showing promising signs of development and growth in India. The Government of India, on its part, has been actively promoting Institutions Innovation Councils across educational Institutions and Universities to foster this among students and faculties. Such institutions have been encouraged to set up their own incubation spaces, makers and fabrication laboratories, mentoring programs, hackathons and challenges to address specific pain points for the community and industry. In some cases, Universities and Institutions such as IITs/ IIMs have been encouraging faculty to commercialize their research and patent their process/ product/ technologies and bridge the gap between academia and industry. Technology Transfer Offices have been created in some centres which are aiding in commercializing their technologies through various formats viz., licensing/ technology transfer/ technology commercialization, etc. In Institutions like IITs, some of the faculty members have become entrepreneurs based on their domain expertise and their ventures have gone on to successfully raise adequate funding, capital, resources and create job opportunities too. India too has its share of progress, however, there seem to be challenges to surmount such as an enabling startup policy for university faculty-student led innovation, funding constraints, a nascent startup ecosystem, bureaucracy, etc. Given the demographics of our country and the increasing access to latest technology is a plus point for us to be hopeful in creating a conducive environment for faculty-led innovation. The Agriculture/ Horticulture Entrepreneurship Ecosystem To cultivate entrepreneurship within Agricultural/ Entrepreneurship through Innovation and Incubation in Agricultural Universities Empowering faculty to pursue entrepreneurship through innovation and incubation at Agricultural/ Horticultural Universities, by working on ideas that impact markets and communities, holds the key to transform our agricultural landscape and secure a sustainable future. By creating a robust ecosystem that nurtures agripreneurs, encourages innovation, and supports startups, we can unlock the true potential of our agriculture sector in Northeast India. Together, let us embark on this journey to empower the next generation of agripreneurs who will lead us towards a greener, more prosperous, and resilient world.