 yy Quarantine of pigs brought from other farm or other location and should keep under supervision at least for 3 days and do not allow to mix with other herd. Avoid bringing pigs from disease infected area yy Vaccination against swine fever or Hog cholera at the age of 2 months at dose rate 1.0 ml intramuscularly. Booster dose at 6 months after first vaccination and thereafter annually. yy Vaccination against FMD at the age of 6-8 weeks and repeat every 6-9 months @ 1 ml S/C. yy If any disease condition is noticed then consult with Veterinary Officer immediately. Proper disposal of diseased carcases with use of disinfectant and without reach of any scavenging animal. b. Dairy and Goat management yy Daily cleaning of shed along with cleaning of feeding and watering trough or utensils. yy Restriction in movement of people to the farm for bio-security. Use of good disinfectant in foot bath. yy Feeding at fixed time i.e. three- four times a day reared under intensive system. Provide sufficient clean water 3-4 times a day. yy In open grazing do not let loose animals in unknown places, otherwise it will result in transmitting infections. Practice rotational grazing system to get rid from some infectious and parasitic diseases. yy Milking at fixed time always i.e. preferably morning and evening at a fixed time of not more than +1 hr. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 83 yy Vaccination of animals against major diseases and de-worming schedule of 2-3 times per year. yy Close observation of animals 3-4 times a day and examine for health status of the animal. yy Special care and monitoring of pregnant and new born animals. yy Heavy milch animals should be examined regularly for mastitis infection. If mastitis infection is noticed then consult with Veterinary officer immediately. c. De-worming of livestock yy All livestock and poultry are required to feed anthelmintic 2-3 times per year. In large and small ruminants de-worming should be made prior to the occurrence of flood. yy Calves are de-wormed as early as 21 days with Piperzine against round worm 110-130 mg/ kg body weight. yy Adult cow/buffalo/goat should be de-wromed preferably with Fenbendazole @ 7 mg/ kg body weight. yy Pigs are de-wormed with Albendazole @ 5mg/ kg body weight and Piperzine specifically against round worm @ 110-200 mg/ kg body weight yy Poultry are de-wormed with Piperzine @ 32mg/ kg in two consecutive feed or water against round worm and Albendazole against other worms @ 10 mg/ kg body weight with or without Praziquantel @ 5mg/ kg body weight and depending on age of the bird d. Immunization of ruminants and poultry Vaccine should be done before occurrence of monsoon if not vaccinated yet then vaccination should be done immediately. i. For Ruminants: yy Foot and Mouth Disease: Vaccinate cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat, pig twice in a year yy HS cum BQ: It is combined vaccine against Haemorrhaic Septicaemia and Black Quarter. Cattle, buffaloes, goats are vaccinated once in a year.