 Tomato, Kashi Adarsh, a semi- determinate variety was selected, while Kashi Shivani, a high-yielding ridge gourd variety was released for green fruits. Kufri Mohan, a potato variety, with medium maturity was found moderately resistant to late blight OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 4 and outperformed Kufri Bahar in northern plains and Kufri Jyoti in eastern plains. Livestock improvement: Improvement of indigenous cattle breeds through Selection Project was conceptualized for the genetic improvement of Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal cattle in their home tracts. The average age at first calving in Gir, Kankrej and Sahiwal were 1,343.5, 1,273.44 and 1,189.55 days, respectively. Frozen semen doses of Gir (68,407), Kankrej (2,995) and Sahiwal bulls (20,974), were produced at respective Germplasm units. Doses are available for Frieswal (1,937,000), Gir (121,848), Kankrej (111,690) and Sahiwal (83,802). Under Network Project on Buffalo Improvement (NPBI), Nili-Ravi, Bhadawari and Swamp breed centres are functioning as conservation and improvement units, whereas, Jaffarabadi, Pandharpuri and Surti breed centres are concentrating on field progeny testing and maintaining the elite herd for bull production and a breedable herd of 567. A novel tool, Kalrumpscale was designed for measuring 3D angular and linear orientation of buffalo external rump/pelvic surface. Under Mega Sheep Seed Project, units for Chhotanagpuri, Mandya, Mecheri, Sonadi and Malpura Sheep, worked for development and maintenance of nucleus flocks of the indigenous sheep breeds and distribution of superior breeding males and other necessary inputs. AICRP on Goat Improvement covered 13 tribal villages and contributed for a better livelihood security for tribal people as goats are major source of income to poor people in tribal areas and NEH region. Rani and Asha, faster growing pig varieties, are expected to benefit socio-economically weak communities in terms of their sustainable livelihood security but also to address the issues of pig production system under changing climatic scenario by improved production and productivity. Jharsim, a multi-colour dual purpose bird suitable for rural poultry production, showed 1.6- 1.8 kg body weight at sexual maturity, and egg production 120-130 eggs/annum, which is almost double than that of local native chicken (55–60 eggs/annum). Under the conservation programme, Aseel birds were characterized phenotypically with multi-colour plumage and dark red colour pea comb. Under AICRP on Poultry Breeding, all the twelve centres are working on the development of location specific rural chicken varieties utilizing the local native chicken germplasm and elite layer and broiler chicken lines developed earlier under AICRP programme. Seasonality in breeding behaviour of guinea fowls was successfully broken for the first time by feeding them with 20% dietary protein and rearing under 18 hr photo-period.