 Dairy microbes: Bacterial cultures/isolates (507) including Lactococcus spp, Leuconostoc spp, Streptococcus thermophilus and Lactobacillus spp, Lactococcus lactis ssp.lactis, Leuconostoc lactis, Lactobacillus fermentum, Bifidobacterium dentium, Bifidobacterium longum, Leuconostoc mesenteroids spp mesentroids, Leuconostoc mesenteroids ssp. cremoris, Leuconostoc sp., Leuconostoc mesenteroids ssp para mesentroids, Lactococcus lactis ssp. diacetylactis, Micrococcus sp., Lactis, Lactococcus lactis ssp. Cremoris, Lactococcus lactis ssp. lactis bv. Diacetylactis, Streptococcus thermophilus, Kluyveromyces lactis, Saccharomyces bisporus etc. are available in the dairy microbes repository. Clinical and surgical interventions Composite scaffolds for bone and tendon repair: Achilles tendon from buffalo (aged about 1.5-2 years) was harvested aseptically from a slaughter house within 3 hr of slaughter. The samples were subjected to treatment either with 2% SDS or freeze and thaw (F&T) cycle. Morphological characteristics and surface structure of the implants were studied by histological examination and scanning electron microscopy. The grafts were also applied in the clinical cases of tendon gap defects and showed the potential to support healing of damaged tendon. Bubaline decellularized cancellous composite bone xenograft: Wedge and complex fractures in dogs were treated with lockning compression plate (LCP) and the role of bubaline decellularized cancellous composite bone xenograft was evaluated for biological osteosynthesis of such fractures. It was found that the composite (allogenic canine MSCs seeded) bubaline decellularized cancellous bone xenograft may be beneficial for treating the non-reconstructible wedge and complex fractures of long bones in dogs. Therapeutics Fruit extract of Embelia ribes (Baibirang) @ 30mg/ kg body weight could reduce EPG by 86.18% in sheep infected with GI nematodes. Chymotrypsin galactose (630 mg) was effective as intra-uterine therapy for completely neutralizing the antisperm antibodies in repeat breeding cows. Polyherbal extract of Eclipta alba, Solanum nigrum, Macrotyloma uniflorum, Murraya koenigii and Phyllanthus niruri @ 30 mg/kg b wt po daily for 2 weeks revealed potent antioxidant, diuretic and hepato-protectant effect in dogs with LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 80 compromised liver condition. Pyrilamine (1 μM) and cyproheptadine (1 μM) evoked a rightwards displacement of histaminergic curve, but cimetidine (1 μM) had no effect on isolated reticular groove preparation of adult male goats. Essential oil of Callistemon viminali (bottle brush) leaves produced concentration-dependent relaxation on isolated reticular groove preparation. Sumatriptan (10- 6 M), ketanserin (10-5 M) and ondansetron (10-6 M) markedly reduced tryptaminergic effect on isolated reticular groove preparation.