 Good cultural practices: Weeding, Manuring, Earthling up, Providing drainage, Seed treatment in storage, Timely application of plant protection agents, Rouging Ginger transplanting: Preparation of or tray plants reduces planting material requirement, Can prepare off season planting material Spices: Turmeric Use of high yielding varieties with high curcumin: Varieties with curcumin more than 5% fetches the premium in the market Varieties like Kanthi, Sobha, sona, Varna, Sudarshana, IISR Prabha, IISR Prathibha, IISR Alappey Supreme and IISR Kedaram are some of the varieties with high curcumin. Highland and midlands of Wayanad, Idukki, Palakkad, Kollam and Pathanamthitta Use of turmeric transplants: Use of protrays reduces the requirement of planting material, Reduces seed loss in storage, Establishes well inthe field, Resulting in higher yield. 277 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Domain Actionable points/Strategies Specific technologies available Regions where applicable Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Fruits: Banana Use of new high yielding varieties: Tolerant to Eumusae leaf spot, pseudo stem borer and suitable for annual cropping. Varieties: Grand Naine, Yangambi km5,Big Ebanga, Manjeri Nendran II,Attu Nendran Midlands and lowlands of all districts. Large scale production and popularization of tissue culture banana seedlings; Virus indexing of TC plants: Virus indexing of TC banana is a technology for banana bunchy top virus (BBTV), banana bract mosaic virus (BBrMV), cucumber mosaic virus (CMV) and banana streak virus (BSV) are the four viruses infecting banana. Zero to eight percent incidence of viral diseases was observed across Kerala. Serological (ELISA) and molecular (PCR) methods have been standardized for the detection of all banana viruses. The cost of serological indexing is Rs. 150 per sample for 3 viruses and molecular indexing is Rs 200 per sample for one DNA virus and Rs. 300 per sample for one RNA virus. This will save an economic loss of Rs. One lakh per hectare. Organic nutrient schedule in Nendran: The technology involves the application of FYM 10 kg/ plant + Neem cake 1.25 kg/ plant + vermi-compost 5 kg/ plant + wood ash 1.75 kg/ plant + bioagents/ biofertilizers (AMF 25g/pt + Azospirillum 50g/pt + PSB 50g/pt + T. Harzianum 50g/pt) along with triple green manuring with cowpea can give a comparable yield as that of chemical Fertilizer. FYM, neem cake and bio- fertilizers/ bio-agents to be applied as basal, while the time of application of vermi-compost is at 3MAP and wood ash at 5 MAP. In Kerala, about 10 % of banana cultivators turned to Organic farming considering the positive impact of organic cultivation practices. Biological control: Using Entomopathogenic Nematodes (EPN) for the biological control of major weevil pests of banana.