 Shift from traditional rearing mode to in house management for round the year availability of quality mutton. xii. Promotion of exotic hens having higher laying potential; xiii. Production of quality fodder – reclamation of wasteland, hydroponics etc xiv. Increase egg production through improved variety of backyard poultry State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 216 xv. To make backyard poultry sector an effective tool for production of poultry meat in the state xvi. Production of quality fodder – reclamation of wasteland, hydroponics etc xvii. Ensuring availability of feed material at lower prices. xviii. Organization of health check-ups camps for animals. xix. Appointment of veterinary experts at block level. xx. Regular vaccination and diseases management on time Fisheries: i. Increasing hatching and rearing space for production of quality fish seed in the existing hatcheries/fish farms of the department. ii. Development of Recreational Fisheries (Sport and Ornamental Fisheries) iii. Reclamation of hitherto un-exploited areas for development of Fisheries iv. Development of Sport Fisheries Jammu Regions. v. Development of Marketing Facilities for fish and fish product by way of establishment of Wholesale /Retail Fish Markets. vi. Large scale development of fish ponds vii. Fish processing and storage infrastructure development Strategy 2 : Access to market for better realization of farmers’produce i. Development of cold chain system for fruits and vegetables ii. Promotion of farmer producer organization (FPOs); iii. Promoting special commodity markets; iv. Establishment of platform where farmers can be connected to e-market; v. Adoption of contract farming; vi. Public Private Partnership in creation of farm level infrastructure; vii. Strengthening value chain; viii. Use of ICT in marketing; ix. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level. x. Creation of direct linkages with food processing industries for betterprices. xi. Establishment of strong linkages with various stake holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. xii. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at panchayat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. xiii. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. xiv. Establishment of cold room in different clusters State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 217 Strategy 3 : Policy support i. Amendment of APMC ii. Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. iii. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. iv. Land holding ownership, leasing policy; v. Water management policy; vi. Implementation of centrally sponsored schemes without delay. vii. Minimum Support Price based on cost of production and profit margin; viii. Forewarning about natural calamities to the farmers; ix.