 Molasses and sugarcane bagasse are the two major by-products of sugar industries. In India, only 10% of molasses is diverted to the animal feed industry for manufacturing the compounded livestock feed. 5.2.1. Balanced feeding for optimizing productivity of animals Balanced feeding optimizes growth, milk yield, egg production, reproduction and prevent metabolic disorders and is required for assessing true genetic potential of the livestock and poultry. The feed requirements of livestock and poultry species at different ages, stages of production and physiological stages were formulated as total nutrient requirements by adding maintenance requirement according to body weight and lactation requirement as per milk yield. Dry matter intake at 2% of body weight and 1/3rd of milk yield. Animals should be provided appropriate amount of mineral mixture supplementation and appropriate supplements and additives should be added for maintenance of rumen and animal health. The balanced ration yield about 30% extra profit through increase in milk production and optimized feeding. Indian Agriculture after Independence 152 5.2.2. Mineral mapping of India Mineral mapping and prioritisation of most limiting minerals in different states/ regions has led to the formulation of area specific mineral mixture (ASMM). Further, for improving the bio availability of trace minerals, protocol for preparing chelate / organic minerals for zinc, copper and selenium have been developed and validated. State-wise mineral deficiency has been presented in Table 4. Table 4. State-wise mineral deficiency State Mineral Deficiency State Mineral Deficiency 1. Arunachal Pradesh Na, K, Mg, Cu, Mn 11. Madhya Pradesh P, Zn, Mn, Fe 2. Assam Ca, P, Mg, Cu 12. Rajasthan Ca, P, Cu, Zn 3. Sikkim Ca, P, Cu, Mn 13. Gujarat Ca, P, Zn 4. Tripura Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn 14. Punjab Ca, P, Cu, Zn 5. West Bengal Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn 15. Haryana Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn 6. Bihar P, Mg, Cu, Zn, Mn 16. Himachal Pradesh Ca, P, K, Cu, Zn 7. Uttar Pradesh Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn, I 17. Maharashtra Ca, P, Mg, Cu, Zn, Fe 8. Uttaranchal Ca, P, Cu, Co 18. Karnataka Ca, P, Mg, Cu, Zn 9. Tamil Nadu Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Co 19. Kerala Ca, P, Mg, Cu, Zn, Mn 10. Odisha Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn 20. Andhra Pradesh Ca, P, Cu, Zn, Mn Source: ICAR-NIANP, Bengaluru 5.2.3. Alternate feed resources Unconventional feeds such as neem seed cake, karanja seed cake, castor seed cake, sal seed meal, mahua seed cake, ambadi cake, mustard cake and cottonseed cake explored were found to have moderate to high protein content but have one or more anti-nutritional factors. Hence, suitable detoxification methods have been developed for processing such feeds to safely include at 5-10% level in the concentrate mixture of ruminant diets.