 long, densely flowered: spikelets sessile, arranged in threes on two sides of a flattened rachis, all fertile (6- rowed type), or lateral ones barren and occasionally rudimentary (2-rowed type); glumes 2, small, narrow, short- awned, enclosing three spikelets; lemma lanceolate, five- ribbed, tapering into a long, straight or recurved awn; palea a little smaller than lemma, with margins inflexed; lodicules 2; stamens 3; stigmas 2; fruit a caryopsis, elliptic, 3/8 in. long, short-pointed, grooved on the inner face, smooth, free or adherent to palea or both to lemma and palea. The important producer of barley are USSR, China, USA, Canada and India, and countries bordering the Mediterranean, which together contribute more than 50% of the total world production. Barley has been cultivated since long in northern India. It is grown in the plains as well as in the hilly regions of the Himalayas up to an altitude of 14,000 ft. The chief producing states, in the order of importance are Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Bihar and Madhya Pradesh. Other states producing barley are West Bengal, Himachal Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir and Maharashtra. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* 323 Use of bichchu (Urtica dioica) grass to enhance milk production in animals Volume 2, page 330 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Name of the plant used in ITK Name in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bichchu grass Hindi: Bichhu booti. Stinging-nettle Urtica dioica Linn. The irritant property of the nettle has long been used externally to excite activity in paralysed limbs, and internally for the treatment of haematoptysis and other haemorrhages. The herb is also used in sciatica, palsy and rheumatism. The treatment for paralysis is called flagellation or urtication. The urticadng properties of the hairs are attributed to the presence of acetylcholine, histamine, and 5: hydroxy- tryptamine (5-HT), and histamine-liberating enzyme is also present. A robust, dioecious herb, up to 2 m high with grooved stems abundantly armed with stinging hair, found in the Himalayas from Kashmir to Kumaun at altitudes of 2,100 - 3,200 m; leaves ovate or lanceolate, usually cordate, serrate; flowers greenish in axillary cymes. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 1188 Use of mixture of ajwain, fenugreek, sugar and pigeonpea to increase milk of cow and buffalo Volume 2, pages 331-332 Ajwain, fenugreek, sugar and pigeonpea Pigeonpea: Bengali, Hindi and Marathi: arhar, tur, tuver; Gujarati: tuver; Kannada: togari; Malayalam: thuvara; Sanskrit: adhaki, tuvarika, tuwari; Tamil: thovaray; Telugu: kandulu. Pigeonpea: Congo pea, pigeonpea, red gram Pigeonpea: Cajanus cajan (Linn.) Millsp.