 He was the one who initiated crowd- funding for innovations in spinning wheel which could be efficient. Setting up new and strengthening of existing custom-hire centres with provision of more number of machines and better norms should be focused upon to enhance accessibility of farm machineries and reduction of drudgery. g) Water resource development: Water will be crucial for not only agriculture but also for drinking and more importantly for hand wash and sanitization. The measures like roof water harvesting, community ponds and tanks, and on-farm water conservation will be critical. Support could be extended for such interventions. The Govt. has laid emphasis upon solar based water pumps as green way of farming. The grassroots organizations could take up the role of collective interventions in their areas for water harvesting through low cost structures. The “Jal Saheli” groups in Bundelkhand have done commendable work in augmentation of water security for the villages. Voluntary organizations and farmers organizations could also join hands in implementation as well as participatory monitoring of water related Govt. interventions. Emerging technologies including sensor based on-farm irrigation management need to be promoted for efficient water management and attainment of desired crop productivity. h) Linking farmers to markets: Efforts need to be made towards devising gainful as well as trustworthy ecosystem and mechanism for linking farmers, particularly the small farmers, to markets. Recent farm bills amply stress upon market and income-oriented farming. Modified procedures have indicated ease of business in contract farming. However, there 194 is need for trust building as well as collective action. The farmer producer organizations (FPOs) and cooperatives could promote adoption of improved technologies by farmers and facilitate collective arrangement of input, credit and insurance services, besides having greater say in marketing of their produce. Organic farming has great potential for enhancing farmers’ income, sustaining productivity and to promote residue free food products. There is a need for development of value chains for aggregation of organic produce, quality control, certification and branding, and marketing. Besides quality information, infrastructure support system for postharvest treatment and value addition will have to be ensured for prosperity of market-oriented farming. 8. Conclusion Gandhiji’s concept of rural development is a multidimensional process which includes gram swaraj (self rule), atmanirbhar (self-reliance), ram rajya (rule of law established by moral values), panchayat raj (decentralisation of power, economy, policies and decisions at panchayat), ahimsha (politics based on non-violence), Satya (administration based on truth and honesty), sevabhaba (service attitude), Sahyog (cooperation), and swabhiman (self-dignity of individual).