 The modified machine has 9-row seed-cum-fertilizer drill mounted on a 1.6 m wide rotavator. The seed metering is done by using fluted rollers and fertilizer is placed by gravity with adjustable holes and an agitator. The drive to the metering mechanism is given by the ground wheel through chain and sprockets. Furrow openers for the placement of seed and fertilizer are mounted at the rear of rotavator in 2 rows in a staggered manner. The rotavator has 36 blades (L-type) mounted on 6 discs that are driven through gears and PTO shaft of the tractor. Field evaluation of the planter was done for sowing wheat after harvesting of rice crop by combine in different stubble conditions in sandy loam soil and silt clay loam soil of Punjab. Two treatments were selected for the sandy loam soil: T1 (partial burning of rice straw + pre-sowing irrigation + till planter for wheat sowing). T2 (stubble shaver + complete burning of rice straw + pre-sowing irrigation + till planter for wheat sowing) In silt clay loam soil, treatments selected were: T3 (partial burning of rice straw + pre-sowing irrigation + till planter for wheat sowing.) T4 (partial burning of rice straw + pre-sowing irrigation + one disc harrowing + till planter for wheat sowing). The performance of the machine was better in completely burnt rice fields than partially burnt fields. The cost of operation (Rs/ha) along with tractor was 247 for disc harrow, 190 for stubble shaver and 1,015 for till planter. Local manufacturers in Ludhiana have started manufacturing of this machine. Agricultural Engineering and Technology Tractor-mounted raised bed planter saves 20% in seed rate, about 30% in fertilizer and 34% in irrigation water requirement besides getting higher yields ● Tractor-mounted till planter developed earlier modified and commercialized at PAU, Ludhiana Centre of AICRP on FIM ● Vegetable planter attachment developed at TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on FIM ● Attachments for riding type self- propelled reaper windrower developed at CIAE, Bhopal to make it a multi- purpose machine ● A new power weeder made at CIAE, Bhopal ● Power tiller-operated multi-crop planter weighing 34 kg developed at HPKV, Palampur Centre of AICRP on FIM DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 132 Self-propelled Vegetable Planter The TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on FIM has developed a vegetable planter attachment to the self-propelled reaper/power weeder. It consists of a simple frame on which the seed box, hitch bracket, handle, clutch mechanism and 3 no. of shoe type furrow openers are mounted. The provision of spoon/cup feed type mechanism facilitates metering of small onion bulbs/seeds without breakage. Provision of a clutch facilitates stopping of seed dropping at headlands. A square bar is provided at the rear end of the unit to cover the seeds and can be lifted in case of accumulation of trash and row-to-row distance can be adjusted.