 This work was funded by the RKVY- RAFTAAR program of the Government of Karnataka. AI assistants for information needs Many farmers are familiar with the use of Google and WhatsApp/Facebook for their information needs. However, in recent times, there is a new trend of AI assistants is emerging and these are offering customized information to a user on various aspects including agriculture and horticulture. Some of them include Farmer Chat, Kisan AI, Meta AI, Gemini, Chat GPT, Copilot etc. These are made possible due to advances in language models. Their accuracy is likely to improve over the years with the feedback from users. It is very heartening to witness that two AI assistants which are created separately for the agricultural sector. Here is a brief summary of some key apps in this area, which are available in Google Play Store. Farmer Chat: This is developed by the Digital Green company (https://digitalgreen.org) which has been serving the information needs of small farmers for the last fifteen years. This app provides agricultural multilingual Tumaini app Agrio app Indian Horticulture 72 information according to user’s location. There is a facility to ask questions through photo, text and voice. This was released in July 2024 and it seems to be quite different from many such apps in terms of interaction with the users. Kissan AI (https://kissan.ai): This is developed by Gujarat-based computer scientist, Dr. Prateek Desai, now setteld in USA. Here One can ask questions and get agricultural information through text and voice messages. This is developed using vast agricultural information and considerable AI training. ChatGPT: A popular AI assistant. Besides providing required information, writing, emailing, computer code, translation, summarizing a piece of work etc. can be done. User can get many advanced facilities of the app on nominal payment basis. Copilot: Developed by the Microsoft company. It can give the required information as well as tell how to write an essay related to a topic. It can also generate AI images based on the instructions given. It is integrated with Windows and Microsoft 360. At the bottom right corner of the computer, Copilot icon is provided and user can continue by clicking on it. Gemini: This is the AI assistant created by the Google. When the user googles for any information, this gives synthesized answer in the beginning. Followed by this, various websites are given as earlier. This assistant has been integrated to work with all Google products – Gmail, Google Docs, Sheets, Meet. Different versions of Gemini are available depending on the complexity of the job. Meta AI: This is integrated in WhatsApp, Facebook and Instagram and appears as a blue circle. It can answer user’s questions, advise the user and can generate photos based on the question. Meta AI will appear by typing @ symbol in the text box while chatting in the group.