 PolyMorphPredict, a rapid microsatellite marker polymorphism discovery tool, would be of immense use in diversity estimation along with crop variety, animal and fish breed identification, population structure, MAS, QTL and gene discovery, traceability, parentage testing, fungal diagnostics and genome finishing. KRISHI Portal has details of 525 technologies from 46 Institutes; about 21,300 publications and 470 data sets in the public domain. Sampling methodologies for estimation of harvest and post-harvest losses were developed for horticultural crops (fruits and vegetables), livestock (meat and milk), and fish (capture and culture fisheries). India is the only country that has carried out two nation-wide sample surveys on food losses along the entire supply chain for 45 commodities. The FAO, up-graded the method to Tier II; hence country now has an internationally accepted methodology for measuring food losses along production and supply chains. Women empowerment: A gender sensitization hub was designed to sensitize various stakeholders for engendering agricultural research and extension. Forty two selected women friendly technologies were identified. Capacity building and skill upgradation programmes on improved methods of paddy cultivation, cropping pattern for year round vegetable cultivation, pro-tray method of nursery raising and plasticulture in agriculture were organized. Women farmers were trained on improved aquaculture practices to enhance household fish consumption and enhance income. A prototype of tent type solar dryer was also made for hygienic drying of SIFFS. In peri-urban dairy farming, skill oriented capacity development programme, access to input resources and marketing opportunity were identified as the major limitations. An action research was conducted to develop a suitable model for FPP (Family Poultry Production) especially for women farmers. Integrated floating cage aquageoponics system (IFCAS) was designed for growing vegetables as well as fish for nutritional security and economic fortification of farm families. The benefit: cost ratio of this model was 1.4 during one season. Under the AICRP on Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture, a multipurpose harvesting bag and women friendly power operated groundnut decorticator were developed. The AICRP on Home Science focused on gender mainstreaming and empowerment of rural women. Foods (362) from different major food groups having low glycemic index (GI) were documented. For food processing units, ergonomically designed low working table, storage shelves and portable trolley for the workers were developed. A conceptual framework for scoping IFS models from gender perspective with emphasis on income enhancement was developed, and altogether 37 IFS models were identified based upon agro-climatic DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 8 OVERVIEW zones. Underutilized fibres, viz. mesta fibre was utilized for sanitary napkins preparation.