 Leaves lanceolate with prominent midrib; petioles narrowly winged or slightly Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT margined, articulated; flowers white, single or in unbranched inflorescence; fruits medium to large, flattened or depressed, globose, yellow or reddish-orange, core hollow, rind thin, rind and segments easily separable, segments 10-14, pulp of exceptionally fine quality; seeds small, beaked. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 152 Pest and disease control in paddy using garlic and notchi leaf in cow urine Volume 2, page 139 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages 168 Botanical alternatives in plant protection Volume 2, page 142 Arali, datura, custard apple, etty and Gloriosa Datura: Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi and Marathi: dhatura; Kannada, Malayalam, Tamil andTelugu: ummatta; Sanskrit: dhattura, unmatta, kanaka, shivapriya. Etty: Bengali: kuchila, thalkesur; Gujarati: kuchla; Hindi - bailewa, chibbige, kajra, kuchla; Kannada: hemmushti, ittangi, ittim kanjira; Malayalam: kanjiram, kariram; Marathi: jharkatachura, kajra, kar, kara; Oriya: kachila, kora, kosila; Punjabi: kagophale, rajra, ruchila; Sanskrit: karaskara, chipita, dirghapatra, geradruma, kakasphurja, marakatinda, vishamushti; Tamil: etti, kagodi, kanjirai; Telugu: Mushti, mushidi. Gloriosa: Bengali: bishalanguli, ulatchandal; Gujarati: dudhiovachnag, varhvardi; Hindi: karihari, languli; Kannada:agnisikhe,akkatangaballi,karadikanninagadde; Malayalam: medoni, malattamara, mettonni; Marathi: indai, kariannag, nagkaria, kallavi; Oriya: ognisikha, garbhhaghhatono, panjangulia, meheriaphulo; Punjabi: kariari, mulim; Sanskrit: langli, kalikari, ailni, agnisikha, Contents English names Botanical names Active ingredients ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES garbhaghatini, agnimukhi; Tamil: kalaippaik-kishangu, akkinichilam; Telugu: adavi-nabhi, kalappagadda, ganjeri. : Arali: oleander, rose bay Datura: jimson weed, stink weed, mad apple, thorn apple, Stramonium Etty: snake-wood, nux-vomica, strychnine tree Gloriosa : Malabar glory lily Arali: Nerium oleander Linn. Datura: Datura stramonium Linn. Etty: Strychnos nux-vomica Linn. Gloriosa: Gloriosa superba Linn. : Arali: The bark and flower posses cardio-tonic properties similar to leaves. The leaves of the plants are used in cutaneous eruptions. A decoction of leaves is used to destroy maggots infesting wounds. Datura: It is similar to belladonna in the symptoms produced by it and in its general physiological and therapeutic action. It is a narcotic, anti-spasmodic and anodyne and is used chiefly to relieve the spasm of the brochioles in asthma. The leaves are applied to boils, sores and fish-bites. The juice of the flowers is used for ear-ache. The juice expressed from the fruits is applied to the scalp for curing dandruff and falling hair.