 These findings have led to the ban on certain azo-dyes both in India and many European countries, necessitating research on finding out alternate safe dyes. Studies carried out at CIRCOT employing a few non-carcinogenic aromatic amines and a series of safe coupling agents have yielded 20 non-carcinogenic dyes. Few of the above dyes were further chemically modified and new reactive dye (cold brand) was synthesized. The new dyes have good dyeability with satisfactory fastness characteristics. Large-scale preparation at laboratory was successful with good yield potential. Natural Dyes The CIRCOT, working in collaboration with several organizations, has identified potential dye-yielding plants from the western Maharashtra. Forty-two plant materials were studied to standardize their application techniques on cotton. Different conditions were tried to extract the dye from powered plant materials. Fabric samples were dyed with these extracts under different dyeing conditions. Best extraction and dyeing recipes for each plant material were selected on the basis of visual assessment of dyed samples and also by comparing colour strengths. By changing the dyeing/extraction conditions, different shades were obtained for the same plant material. The dyed fabrics were also tested for light and wash fastness. On the basis of colour obtained on dyed fabrics and its fastness properties, plant materials were classified into high, medium or low priority category. Out of the 42 plant materials tried, about 20 plants yielded good colour on cotton with moderate to good fastness properties and were placed in high priority category. LAC TECHNOLOGY Biological Control of Lac Predators by Insect Parasitoids under Field Condition Field release of Trichogramma chilonis, T, pretiosum and T. brasiliensis (by means to trichocards) carried out on lac crops grown on Butea monosperma (palas), Flemingia macrophylla (bhalia) and Schleichera oleosa (kusum) showed 50-91% control of lepidopterous predators of lac insect and more than 2 times broodlac yield over control. The recent findings have opened a new vista in the management of the serious predators of lac insects on one hand, and boosting the eco-friendly lac production, on the other. Development of Lac Varnish for Wood and Hot Melt Adhesive for Packaging Industry Shellac-based spiritless wood varnishes MSV 001 and MSV 005 were compared with touchwood, melamine coating and french polish on plywood and observed that MSV 005 is better in respect of gloss, good brushability, good clarity and acceptable smell over market formulations and is economical as compared to other products. Hot melt adhesive was found very good for carton, book binding, leather to sole, copper to copper and wood to wood as a packaging material which is prepared in 2 kg/lot. Lac Wax-based Emulsion Formulations for Extending Shelf-life of Fruits and Vegetables Lac wax was used to prepare emulsion for coating of fruits and vegetables.