 Sustainable land management practices to mitigate the zinc deficiency includes avoidance of cereal-cereal system, land levelling, proper water management, residue recycling, green manuring and zinc fertilizer application. This will help in increasing yield and zinc content of grain with a healthy soil- plant-animal-human continuum. Zinc sulphate is an ideal fertilizer considering the cost effectiveness and crop performance. Application of this fertilizer at 25 kg/ha during last ploughing improved B:C ratio and net return from `29811/ha to 41163/ha. *Corresponding author’s email: sachin.rautaray@icar.gov.in Indian Farming 11 May 2023 Strategies for successful rainfed fruit cultivation through moisture conservation in Himachal Pradesh Neha Dhiman*, Pramod Verma and Jaya Chaudhary Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Chamba, Dr Yashwant Singh Parmar University of Horticulture and Forestry, Nauni Solan, Himachal Pradesh 173 230 Water is one of the most important component for successful orcharding. It affects the fruit quality as well as production. But due to climate change the water resources are shrinking day by day and erratic nature of rainfall makes fruit growing further more difficult. Hence, the only way to cope up with this problem is efficient utilization of rainwater by minimizing the runoff losses. For this purpose, runoff water from fields can be collected both on the field (in situ) and off the field (ex situ). This collected water can be utilized by plants during water stress conditions. It will not only enhance the fruit production along with fruit quality but also will bring sustainability in fruit production. Keywords: Fruit, Moisture conservation, Rainfed Indian Farming 73 (05): 11-14; May 2023 H IMACHAL Pradesh is a beautiful hill state known for its temperate fruit cultivation like apple, pear, peach, nectarine, plum, apricot etc. The state has an area of about 2,32,140 ha under fruit production with an annual production of 8,28,230 MT. Some areas of the state are particularly known for their quality fruit production; like Kinnaur and Lahul Spiti districts of state are known for their quality apple production, whereas Rajgarh area of Sirmour district is known as peach bowl of country. Although the state receives ample amount of rainfall but its distribution is not uniform in nature. Maximum amount of rainfall (about 80%) in the state takes place in the months of July, August and September. This leaves maximum period of the year under water scarce conditions. Apart from this, most of the orchards in state are established on undulating lands which are susceptible to soil erosion and run-off losses having rain-fed conditions. These conditions make fruit growing further more difficult. Under such circumstances efficient use of rainfall along with conservation of available soil is the only solution to cope up with this problem. Rain water can be efficiently utilized by minimizing the runoff losses.