 The water stored in these ditches is primarily used by livestock and/or spraying (Maharashtra). Patnaik et al. (1987) 12 Traditional earthen bunding Earthen bunding is done during the off-season. In bunding for arresting Anantapur region, bunds of 0.3 m cross section run off water are made. In many places bunds are covered with local grasses, legume and vegetables of cucurbitacea family which strengthen and stabilize the bunds. In some places diversion channels are made for safe channelizing the water to nearby ponds. This practice is useful to conserve the soil and also for runoff water management. It is useful in areas having slope up to 5% (Anantapur, Hyderabad, Warangal, Andhra Pradesh). Anonymous (1999a) 13 Using murram for soil and water conservation The farmers in this region use murram for bund formation for preparation of bund instead of soil in medium to deep black soils. This practice helps to avoid frequent breaches as in case of earthen bunds. The top fertile soil which is otherwise used for construction of the bund is not disturbed in this practice (Bijapur and Bhagalkot, Karnataka). Anonymous (1999b) 4 RAIN WATER MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 14 Stone waste weir for safe disposal of surplus water The farmers in the Patkul, Pennur and Solapur of Maharashtra construct the wasteweirs with stones by using manual labour with locally available stones. Dimensions of the wasteweir varies from field to field. It involves putting the stone in the gully across the slope to enable safe disposal of runoff water. It prevents soil loss and improve crop yields by moisture conservation (Patkul, Pennur and Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 15 Strengthening of bunds by rowing crops A mixture of Kodra (Paspalum scorbiculatum), Nagli (Eleusina coracana) and Bhindi (Hibiscus cannalinus) seeds are broadcasted on the bunds for soil conservation (Kapadwanj, Dehgam and Thasara, Gujarat). Patel (1993h) 16 Traditional tillage practices for in- situ moisture conservation The important practices for in-situ conservation of moisture used by the farmers before seeding rainy season (kharif) crops are: (i) deep tillage deep ploughing during summer in black soils of Maharashtra for effective trapping of early showers, (ii) shallow tillage during pre - monsoon period with blade harrow in red soils of Andhra Pradesh for breaking surface crust and trapping subsequent rainfall (iii) short-term fallowing during early part of the rainy season (Anantapur and Bangalore) for conservation of early rains, (iv) furrowing as a part of seeding operation in castor and sorghum in red soils of Ranga Reddy of Andhra Pradesh, (v) cross ploughing in standing crop of castor, (vi) frequent shallow interculture operation in groundnut in Anantapur and for castor in Ranga Reddy (Andhra Pradesh) and (7) tie ridging as a part of interculture operation in maize and pigeonpea (Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka).