 The Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR is the Director General, who also acts as Secretary to the Government of India in the Department of Agricultural Research and Education. The General Body of the ICAR Society is the supreme authority of the ICAR, and the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, heads it. Its members are the Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of the various state governments, representatives of Parliament, industry, institutes, scientific organizations and farmers (Appendix 1). The Governing Body (Appendix 2) is the chief executive and decision making authority of the ICAR which is headed by the Director General, ICAR who also acts as Secretary, DARE. It consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationists, legislators and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Accreditation Board, Regional Committee, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. In the scientific matter, the Director General is assisted by eight Deputy Directors General, one each for (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticultural Science, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Animal Science, (v) Agricultural Engineering, (vi) Fisheries Science, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension. The eight Deputy Directors General are responsible for the Institutes, National Research Centres, and the funding of Project Directorate in their respective fields. Besides, one ADG (NASF) looks after the Secretariat of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF) and also assists Director General, ICAR. The ICAR recruits scientists and to such other posts and services as may be specified by the President, ICAR from time to time through competitive examination/direct recruitment by selection etc. through its independent recruitment body. The Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board is accountable to proceeds of the ICAR Society, and receives funds from the Government of India. The Senior Officers at the ICAR (headquarters) are listed in Appendix 3. The research set up of the ICAR includes 111 research institutes such as 68 institutes (Appendix 4), 6 National Bureaux (Appendix 5), 22 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (Appendix 6), 15 National Research Centres (Appendix 7), and 81 All India Coordinated Research Projects, and Network Research Projects (Appendix 8). The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) works as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and its institutions; and addresses mandate of ICAR through Publications, Information, AKMU, Public Relations Unit and also CeRA.