O Anjagraman, Kanniyakumari (Tamil Nadu) 2558 Use of tangul powder as an antiseptic medicine Traditionally the people of Anni block in Kullu district of Himachal Pradesh have been using tangul powder as an antiseptic powder to heal the wounds of human being and cattle. The tangul shrub grows at an altitude of above 10,000 feet. The green leaves of this shrub are ground into thin powder by crushing with stone, on a stone floor. The thin powder is mixed with mustard oil and the paste is applied externally on the wound of human being and cattle. It stops the bacterial growth and make the wound healing very quick. Keywords: tangul powder, shrub, healing wound, antiseptic Dr Onkar Shad Prakash Lodge, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2628 Use of maloda to lessen the effect of poison in cats and dogs Sometimes cats or dogs eat some poisonous materials which causes swelling, restlessness and lethargic etc. even sometime it can cause death. Farmers of Simla district of Himachal Pradesh feed some leaves of maloda (Rumix estatus) to the affected cats and dogs. After eating, vomiting occurs and animal is cured. Keywords: maloda, cat, dog Shri Chandu Lal Sharma Khamala, Kotkhai, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2609 Use of edible soda, hing and sugar to lessen the effect of poison in animals At the time of grazing in open, sometimes animals feed poisonous grass, which causes swelling, restlessness and lethargy. Hence for the treatment of poison, farmers of Theong tehsil of Shimla district mix 2 spoonfuls of edible soda (sodium bicarbonate), 10 g hing (asafoetida) and 2 spoonfuls of sugar thoroughly and feed to the infected cattle with fodder twice a day. Cattle are cured in 1 or 2 days. Keywords: edible soda, hing, sugar, poison, fodder Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2557 Use of mud of pond for curing cyanide poisoning in animals Barium grass generally grows as a weed in kharif season and leads to cyanide poisoning in animals. To control this ailment, farmers of Parole area of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir make use of pond mud that is mixed lwith Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology,  wheat flour and fed to the animals. Mud is also coated on the body of animals and washed after one hour. This provides smoothing effect. Keywords: cyanide poisoning, mud, soothing effect Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2559 Use of deodar oil to check various ailments/ diseases in animals The deodar oil is an effective repellent of insect-pests. It is used to massage animals' skin externally. It helps in curing skin diseases such as scabies. It also disinfects the animals and checks various insects.