 About 500 g of shisham leaves are ground into the paste and are mixed with 1-liter water and drenched 2-3 times a day per adult cow or buffalo. It costs Rs. 1-2 per animal. The animal is cured in 2-3 days. This is in vougue in many villages of Shahjhanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser Shri Syed Musawir Ali, Mohalla - Furshoori Tola, Bund Gali, Baduan, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh). Location of use of ITK Villages in the district of Shahjahanpur, Bulandshahar and Bareilly (U.P). Experimenters Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr. D Swarup, Head, Dr. N.N. Pandey, Principal Scientist, Dr. D.B. Mondal, Senior Scientist, Division of Medicine, IVRI, Izatnagar 243 122 (U.P.). Gobind Ballabh Pant University of Agriculture and Technology (GBPUAT) Dr. Mahesh Kumar, Professor and Head, Department of EPM and Dr. J. L. Singh, Associate Professor, Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Pantnagar, dist. U.S. Nagar 263 145 (Uttaranchal) Maharashtra Animal Science and Fisheries Sciences University (MASFU) Dr. N. K. Dakshinkar, Associate Professor, Dr. G. B. Shrikhande, Assistant Professor, Dr. D. B. Sarode, Professor and Head, Department of Clinical Medicine, College of Veterinary Sciences, Nagpur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Birsa Agricultural University (BAU) Dr. S. Haque, Head, Dr. P. Shekhar Assistant Professor, Department of Clinical Medicine, Ranchi Veterinary College, and Dr. R.P. ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension, BAU, Ranchi 834 006 (Jharkhand). Results and discussion Therapeutic efficacy At IVRI, the diarrhoeic calves with using ITK had better improvement than animals without ITK in terms of faecal consistency, depression and dehydration. The result showed that almost normal level was noted with ITK by day 3, whereas in the animals of without ITK continued to pass loose motion till day 3 and had mild to moderate depression and dehydration even by day 7. It was thus evident that calves of using ITK had a faster recovery as compared to those without ITK, indicating the significant supportive therapeutic effect of shisham leaf paste in diarrhoea. The results of the clinical trial conducted at Veterinary College, GBPUAT Pantnagar and found that, the clinical scores of all the groups’ diarrhea on day 0. After 3 days of medication, the clinical scores in all affected groups were > 1 and after day 7 it was 0 (normal) for faecal consistency and below 1 for depression and dehydration. The therapeutic efficacy of Shisham leaf powder paste was 60% in diarrhoeic calves. However, the therapeutic efficacy of Shisham leaf powder paste in combination with standard therapy was 80%. The standard therapy alone was responsible for 70% recovery. Results obtained for treatment of diarrhea using Shisham leaf paste at Nagpur Veterinary College MASFSU and found that faecal examination revealed mixed infestation of Trichuris, Strongale and Moneizia spp. in parasitic diarrhoeic animals.