 The region boasts of its rich biodiversity accommodating a large variety of flora and fauna, and represents an important part of the Eastern Himalaya and Indo-Burma global biodiversity hotspot amongst the 36 recognized global biodiversity hotspots. Northeast region occupying only 7.7% of India’s total geographicarea, covers more than 50% of the biodiversity in the country, out of which 31.58% is endemic. The tropical and subtropical temperature and alluvial soil of the Brahmaputra and Barak plains, as well as the temperate climate of the hills with laterite and sandy soil, support a diverse range of tropical and temperate horticultural crops having high nutritional value. Apart from the nutritional value, many local horticultural crops are used for medicinal purposes, income generation and poverty alleviation programmes in the rural areas. In 2021, approximately 2.3 billion people were affected by moderate or severe food insecurity due to limited access Burmese grapes 60 Indian Farming March 2024 Indian Farming 61 March 2024 to nutritious and affordable food options. Plants play a vital role in securing human nutrition worldwide, comprising about 84% of the human diet. Nonetheless, there is an increasing dependency on a restricted set of crop species for sustenance. Despite the existence of approximately 50,000 edible plant species known to humanity, only a minor fraction, roughly 150 to 200 species, finds utilization as food. Strikingly, a mere 15 crop plants contribute to 90% of the world’s food energy intake. From this, over 60% is derived from just three major crops: rice (Oryza sativa L.), wheat (Triticum aestivum L.), and maize (Zea mays L.). This pattern of reliance creates a concerning trend in our food system, posing challenges for both people and the planet. There are about 800 different species of underutilized edible crops in India, out of which about 300 species are used mostly by the tribal and rural population of the Northeastern region alone. Underutilized crops refer to wild or semi-domesticated plant species that are often overlooked and not fully utilized, despite their considerable potential. These plants have significant untapped benefits but have been largely neglected in agricultural and food systems. These crops are neither extensively cultivated on a commercial scale nor widely traded, primarily these are cultivated, trade a and consumed on a local level. These crops belong to categories such as cereals and pseudocereals, legumes, vegetables, oilseeds, roots and tubers, aromatic and medicinal plants, fruits and nuts, and have earned collective names such as ‘neglected and underutilized’ or ‘forgotten’, ‘orphan’, ‘minor’ crops. Underutilized species include not just food plants but also many other species— wild or cultivated—used as sources of oil, fuel, fibre, fodder, beverages, stimulants, narcotics, ornamental, aromatic compounds, and medicine.