72) and photo- insensitive High green forage and dry matter; resistant to yellow mosaic virus and leaf spot Resistant to stem/collar rot, yellow mosaic virus, anthracnose, bacterial wilt, aphids, caterpillar, stored grain pests, moderately tolerant to acid soils and waterlogging Semi-erect variety Long vegetative growth when sown in March– April; drought tolerant, sustain growth during winter, suitable for acidic soils and for rice fallows Released varieties/hybrids of forage crops Forage Variety Area of adoption Salient features CROP IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 48 Biotechnology Decoding wheat-rust genome:Leaf rust of wheat is the most widespread among all rusts and causes maximum losses in India. Next generation sequencing (NGS) technology was used to decode genomes of 15 strains (~1500 MB data) of wheat leaf- rust fungus. A high quality draft genome (~100Mb) sequence of race 77 with 33X genome coverage and predicted 27,678 protein coding genes, responsible for various functions, has been generated. Genome-wide comparative analysis has revealed that P. triticina genome is 37.5% and 40.0% repetitive in case of race77 and race106, respectively;race77 differed substantially from race106 at the segmental duplication (SD), repeat elements and SNP/InDel levels. Certain “host spot regions” in the genome of race 77 are found vulnerable for reshuffling, leading to variability in it. detection of pathogenic fungus, Puccinia strii formistritici, causing yellow rust of wheat, has also been developed and validated. The marker could detect as little as 10fg of DNA template, and could diagnose disease before the expression of symptoms. Induction of biotic stress tolerance in castor :More directed efforts were made towards identifying presence of Trichoderma sp. in castor roots in situ through specific staining of fungal chitin with wheat-germ agglutinin – Fluorescent isothiocyanate conjugate (WGA-FITC) and visualization of the fungus using fluorescence microscopy. It was observed that fungal multiplication increased with time, and fungal hyphae were generated through interstitial spaces of root epidermal cells. It further established that lateral roots were more colonized compared to tap root. These results were reconfirmed through Transmission Electron Microscopy (TEM). Rajasthan and Punjab Rajasthan All India All India Lucerne Krishna (RRB 07-1) Forage sewan grass Jaisalmeri Sewan (RLSB 11-50) Guinea-grass Bundel Guinea 4 (JHGG 08-1) Dharwad Guinea Grass1 (DGG 1) (RSDGG 1) High yielding and of good quality (crude protein: 20.57%); resistant to all insect- pests and diseases Multi-cut, perennial (Four cuttings of good quality can be taken in a year with irrigation) Superior yield and quality; adaptability to rainfed condition; remains green throughout the year under irrigated conditions Good adaptability to rainfed conditions, high leaf to stem ratio (1.