 pink-ear sea bream, (Lethrinus lentjan), Pomadasys furcatus and John’s snapper (Lutjanus johnii). The All-India Network Project on Mariculture is another major Indian Agriculture after Independence 192 ongoing initiative to address technological constraints in mariculture and is being led by ICAR-CMFRI. Table 5. Milestones in mariculture research Year Milestone 1964 Seaweed culture experiment was first initiated on the Gujarat coast. 1973 Development of pearl culture technology through the introduction of nuclear beads along with a secretory mantle tissue into a recipient oyster. 1974 Standardization of culture techniques of agar-yielding seaweeds Gracilaria edulis and Gelidiella acerosa. 1977 Culture techniques for green mussel and brown mussel and edible oyster standardized. 1980 Development of technology for seed production of edible oyster (Crassostrea madra- sensis). 2007 Sea cage farming started with seabass (Lates calcarifer). 2010-11 Induced breeding and seed production of cobia and silver pompano. 2012 Development and standardization of guidelines and practices including good sea-cage farming practices for different regions in the country. 2018 Standardized integrated multi-trophic aquaculture (IMTA) integrating seaweed farm- ing with cobia farming in cages. 2018-20 Breeding and seed production of important marine ornamental fish species and five cross-bred varieties of clownfish. 2020-21 Breeding and seed production of sea bream, John’s snapper and Banded gunter. 2.2.4. Farming of non-food species 2.2.4.1. Farming of ornamental fishes The rich ornamental fish resources of the country, both in terms of freshwater as well as marine species have not been tapped to their fullest potential yet. While the domestic trade of ornamental fish is dominated by exotic varieties, the export is largely confined to wild-caught freshwater indigenous fishes. With the research efforts in ICAR-CIFA, ICAR- CIFA, ICAR-NOFGR and other State Agricultural Universities breeding and rearing techniques of over two dozen indigenous species from NEH, Eastern and the Western Ghat regions have been standardized during the last three decades. This comprises barbs, danios, rasboras, catfish and chameleon fish. The development of ‘shining barb’ a new variety of rosy barb (Pethia conchonius), through the process is another significant contribution of ICAR-CIFA. The development of captive breeding technologies of brackishwater ornamental fishes, viz., Spotted scat (Scatophagus argus), Silver moony (Monodactylus argenteus) and orange chromide (Etroplus maculatus) by ICAR-CIBA have been some of the recent advancements. ICAR-CMFRI initiated the work on the development of captive breeding and seed production of marine ornamentals in the 1990s.