 This water flow is circulated through growth tanks containing the roots of the plants. The plants absorb the nutrients through the roots, and because the stream is shallow and the roots are also suspended in the air, the roots can also absorb oxygen. Aeroponic system: Aeroponic systems are a specialized version of hydroponics where the roots of the plant extend only in air and the roots are directly sprayed with a nutrient water mix (the recipe). The primary difference is the availability of oxygen to the roots. In hydroponics, one has to be sure to supply oxygenated water. Standing water gets depleted of oxygen over Indian Horticulture 86 time. In aeroponics, oxygen is surrounding the roots at all times. Surplus oxygen accelerates nutrient absorption at the root surface. Vegetable crops suitable for hydroponic cultivation A large number of plants and crops or vegetables can be grown by hydroponics system. Selecting vegetable crops for hydroponics is the most important phase in hydroponic vegetable farming. All your success depends on what you select in the plants and how you plan the farming is the key role. In fact, you can grow any plants in hydroponics, but many plants will flourish in the water based environments, while many will burdensome and could not bring similar produces, as in the actual soil counterparts. Therefore it’s recommended you select one best suited for hydroponics farming. per year can be grown efficiently in this system. Growing of lettuce in recirculating hydroponic system at spacing of 50 plants/m2 significantly increased yield and yield components. It has been found that there is significant difference in productivity and nitrate content of lettuce in both soilless (floating system and substrate culture) and soil culture, however, other traits like leaf area, dry weight and ascorbic acid content remain unaffected. Is Hydroponic farming profitable in India? Hydroponic farming has experienced a boom in the recent past. It has been getting a lot of attention in the press and its awareness is spreading widely. Hydroponic farms are mainly built indoor or in greenhouses. Both of the alternatives have proved to be good for commercial use. They have been utilized in numerous ways for farm operations. Hydroponic farms have proved to be productive facilities that generate enough revenue. The revenue raised from hydroponic farms is enough to pay the overhead expenses and provide decent wages for farmworkers. Conclusion The frame of hydroponics has increased dramatically in a short period of time. Hydroponic culture is possibly the most intensive method of crop production in today’s agriculture industry mainly used in developed and developing countries for food production in limited space. It is highly productive, profitable, conserves water, is protective for adverse environment and can be done in limited land and space. After getting the sufficient training, it may be most beneficial venture for an entrepreneur.