4 The committee will examine the CSR proposals received to ensure that there is no conflict of interest with the donor organization. The quorum for such review meetings shall be minimum 5 members which will review the proposal before accepting the proposal received from donor firms/organizations. 7.5 Once the CSR funding is accepted, the Committee will call for proposals annually in the beginning of FY and recommended activities/invite proposals for which CSR online funding can be utilized. 7.6 The Committee will identify thematic areas for call for proposals. The committee suo-moto can also decide and recommended certain activities for utilization of funds received under CSR. Such recommendations will be submitted to Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for approval. 12 7.7 The committee will monitor the physical as well as financial progress of various schemes/activities undertaken under CSR by having periodic review. 7.8 The projects and activities to be carried out from the CSR funds will be uploaded on the ICAR website with complete details and updated regularly. 7.9 The committee will also suggestion-course corrections and make need-based modifications in Rules and Procedures while adhering to the guidelines. Such changes will be submitted to Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR for approval. 7.10 The Committee will be serviced by NASF Unit for Secretarial works and management of funds. 8. Fund Management 8.1 The NASF Secretariat will handle the fund. The administration and finance supporting NASF will also be supporting the ICAR-CSR Fund. 8.2 A separate interest-bearing bank account in a nationalized/scheduled bank will be maintained to keep record of all receipts received under CSR activities. The fund contributed by the corporate sectors for the specific projects of ICAR Institutes shall be maintained by the ICAR-institutes in a separate bank account as per GFR rules. 8.3 Any earning from this fund in terms of interest earned or revenue generated will be ploughed back to this fund. The fund will be spent based on the process laid by the ‘ICAR CSR Steering Committee’. 8.4 All Receipts/payments done under CSR will be done strictly as per provisions of GFR, 2017 as amended from time to time and same will be subjected to internal 13 audit/CAG Audit/ audit by a recognized Chattered Accountant. A separate expenditure statement w.r.t. expenditure incurred on CSR related activities shall also be maintained. 8.5 A subcommittee comprising of 3 members will be formed at ICAR in order to avoid mis-utilization of funds and exploring various investment avenues as per GoI rules and regulations. 8.6 The credentials of the Company shall be kept in view while accepting the CSR funds. ICAR will accept the CSR contributions from the companies having compliance with CSR norms/guidelines of M/o Corporate affairs, GOI. 8.7 ICAR shall ensure that there is no conflict of interest with the donor organization i.e.