 The community frontline extension approach with active participation of public leadership, social and civil society organizations, children, students, teachers and spiritual leaders helped in better mobilization of society and all stakeholders responsible for an ‘inclusive’ ecosystem for the success of any movement of this nature. *Corresponding author email: hariagro@gmail.com Indian Farming 20 March 2024 Indian Farming 21 March 2024 Popularization of mothbean cultivation in Rajasthan M S Meena1*, J P Mishra1 and H N Meena1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jodhpur, Rajasthan 342 005 India experienced pulses revolution during last 10 years due to the concerted efforts of all stakeholders. One of the innovation in frontline extension approach implemented since 2016-17 was FLDs in clusters in place of individual farmers’ field. The CFLDs were initiated under ICAR-DAFW collaborative project implemented by frontline extension institutions at districts. This proved an effective tool in educating farmers about improved cultivars and agro-techniques of pulses. Over a dozen pulse crops are grown in one or the other part of the country. One of the most climate resilient and stress adaptive pulse crops in India is mothbean, of which over 94% is produced in arid region of Rajasthan. The farmers harvest very low productivity of this crop due to traditional practices and use of farm saved seeds of old varieties. The CFLDs on mothbean were implemented in 6 districts of western Rajasthan for popularization of improved technologies amongst farmers. The demonstrations proved the merits of improved package of practices and varieties with 34.7% yield advantage over farmer’s practices and farm saved seeds of crop varieties. In monetary terms, `27.8 lakh additional income was generated from CFLD farmers’ fields. The CFLDs have been unique in attracting the farmers and extension personnel for understanding the improved technologies and future requirement to fine tune or modify the technologies for easy adoptability at farmer’s fields. Improvements in this approach with continuous and coordinated efforts shall help in developing and deploying high-yielding and climate resilient varieties as well as practices of moth bean for diversified agri-food systems in the arid regions. Keywords: Arid, CFLDs, Frontline extension, Income, Mothbean, Pulses, Rajasthan I NDIA is a global leader in production and consumption of pulses. It shares about 25% of the global pulse production and consumes nearly 27% of it. While the grains of pulses are the rich source of plant protein to a large vegetarian masses in the country, the intrinsic capacity of pulses to assimilate atmospheric nitrogen through root-rhizobia symbiosis and its biomass once incorporated in the soil adds to sustainability of pulse based production systems. The pulses, in a given cropping system, economises applied nitrogen requirement to subsequent cereals to the tune of 30-40 kg/ha.