 • To improve the quality of carp seed cohort breeding protocol may be practiced. • To reduce pond space required for the male broodstock raising in the hatchery cryopreserved milt may be used. • Hatchery operator should maintain the pedigree record by various means (tagging, fin clipping, dye marking) to avoid the inbreeding in the hatchery. • Other aquaculture management practices such as water, feed and disease management are also crucial for quality seed production. Conclusions Genetic basis of broodstock management and use of genetic norms in hatcheries are highly essential in the present context. Increase in production as well as purity of stock is also equally important. From all states effort should be made to implement the genetic norms in their hatcheries for quality seed production. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: kdmahapatra@yahoo.co.in Fig. 3. Indian Major Carp Seed Access Digital Copies of Indian Farming at http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal Indian Farming November 2020 30 Doubling Farmers’ Income through Carp Seed Rearing Himansu Kumar De1*, Manoj Kumar Das2 and Kalyan Sundar Das1 ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Kausalyaganga, Bhubaneswar, Odisha 751 002 Farmer FIRST Programme, an innovative extension approach, focuses on enriching knowledge and interpreting technologies in the farmers’ condition. ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar has implemented this project during 2016-19. According to the authors view doubling of farmers’ income through carp seed rearing is possible and the project has significantly contributed towards livelihood improvement of the beneficiaries. Keywords: Carp seed rearing, Doubling farmers’ income, Farmer FIRST Programme F ARMER FIRST Programme is an approach which focuses enriching knowledge and integrating technologies in the farmers’ conditions and to enhance farmer- scientist interface. Emphasis is given on farmer’s farm, innovations, resources, science and technology. Small holders, landless and farm women are specially addressed through technology integration modules. Strong partnership with farmer for developing location specific, demand driven farmer friendly technology option is the guiding principle. The project has covered 4 villages in Khordha district i.e. Kantia Talasahi, Kantia uparasahi, Jagannathpur (Block-Balianta) and Dorbanga (Block-Balipatna) involving more than 400 small and marginal farmers belonging to SC & ST categories and women. Modules on improved technologies on crop, horticulture, livestock and fishery are demonstrated. Skill training and technical backup are provided to the beneficiaries. The project was operated by ICAR-Central Institute of Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneswar in 2016-19. Integrated nutrient management in paddy, powdery mildew resistant variety of green gram var. TARM 1, photo insensitive variety of cauliflower var. Fujiyama, bitter gourd var. VNR, backyard poultry farming var.