 The Committee kept the major global initiatives and foresight in mind towards developing leadership in agricultural sciences to ensure economic attractiveness, global competitiveness, social equity and environmental sustainability. In December 2021, the 6th Deans Committee’ was constituted by ICAR for necessary curricula modifications to develop a roadmap to implement the provisions in the NEP 2020 and its report is awaited, which aims at a good Agriculture Education Ecosystem to make farming more remunerative and empower the people involved in the agriculture ecosystem. At this juncture, when ICAR is embarking upon an ambitious step to strengthen the agri-education system, it was considered most appropriate to start a magazine ‘Agri-Rise’ as a one-stop shop for enhancing the cognitive level of students about agriculture to increase their interest and gain useful contemporary knowledge on the subject. We welcome comments and suggestions from the readers for the improvement of the magazine in future. (Himanshu Pathak) OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 7 A griculture plays a very prominent role in the overall development and growth of the country’s economy. In order to address the challenges in agriculture creation of skilled, talented and entrepreneurial human resource is crucial. Agriculture Education is an important component of our education system and is guided by National Agriculture Research and Education System (NARES) led by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) which includes Agricultural Universities. The New Education Policy (NEP) 2020, announced by Hon’ble Prime Minister, lays particular emphasis on the development of the creative potential of each individual. It is based on the principle that education must develop not only cognitive capacities - both the ‘foundational capacities’ of literacy and numeracy and ‘higher- order’ cognitive capacities, such as critical thinking and problem solving – but also social, ethical, and emotional capacities and dispositions. In this direction, a number of activities are being taken up in agricultural universities including implementation of NEP 2020. The other initiations taken by universities related to Launching of the Agri Rise: Agriculture Education Digest From the Chief Editor's Desk experiential learning programmes, entrepreneurship development, success stories and various other activities/events need proper reflection. It is a matter of immense pleasure to inform that ICAR is initiating this magazine entitled AGRI RISE - Agriculture Education Digest exclusively for the Agricultural Education. Presently, there is no magazine/periodical exclusively for agricultural education. This quarterly magazine would contain education centric articles, Agricultural University profile, Experiential Learning Programmes (ELP) of Agricultural Universities, student’s success stories, information on events organized and forthcoming events related to agricultural education.