2017 (Arvind Kumar) Place: Jhansi Vice Chancellor iv rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY Contents Foreword iii The University 1 1. Introduction 2 2. Goals 2 3. University Authorities and Governance 2 4. Academic Activities 4 5. Faculty 5 6. AICRP- Chickpea sub-centre 10 7. Extension Activities 14 8. Infrastructural Development 17 9. Finance and Budget 21 10. Other Major Activities/Events 22 11. Faculty participation in conferences/ trainings/meetings 29 12. Awards and Honours 31 13. Publications 32 14. Roadmap for the year 2017-18 33 Annexure I 34 Annexure II 36 Annexure III 37 Annexure IV 44 Annexure V 45 Annexure VI 46 Annexure VII 47 Annexure VIII 48  1 Annual Report 2016-17 2 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY 1. Introduction The Rani Lakshmi Bai Central Agricultural University was established as an institution of national importance on 5th March, 2014 by an Act of Parliament by Govt. of India for the furtherance of the advancement of learning and pursuit of research in agriculture and allied sciences. The headquarter of the University is being developed at Jhansi in the State of Uttar Pradesh. The jurisdiction and responsibility of the University with respect to teaching, research and programmes of extension education at the University level, in the field of agriculture shall extend to whole country and priority shall be laid on the issues related to Bundelkhand region. All colleges, research and experimental stations or other institutions to be established under the authority of the University shall come in as constituent units under the full management and control of its officers and authorities. Within the provision of para 4 (2) of the University Act, the University has established its head quarter and constituent College of Agriculture and College of Horticulture and Forestry at Jhansi. Two colleges, namely College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, and College of Fisheries are being established at Datia, Madhya Pradesh. The University is funded directly by the Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, New Delhi. 2. Goals The University objectives are clearly defined in the Act as follows to: a. impart education in different branches of agriculture and allied sciences as it may deem fit; b. further the advancement of learning and conducting of research in agricultural and allied sciences; c. undertake programmes of extension education in Bundelkhand in the districts of the States under its jurisdiction; d. promote partnership and linkages with national and international educational institutions; and e. undertake such other activities as it may, from time to time, determine. 3. University Authorities and Governance The Vice-Chancellor is the principal executive and academic head of the University and ex-officio Chairman of Board of Management, Finance Committee and Academic Council.