 Indicators of economic security The 11 indicators of agricultural sustainability in economic dimension, which make up the economic security index of this study, are as follows. (1) Man-land ratio. The carrying capacity of agricultural system determined by the rural population on per unit net cropped area, is a pressure variable. Population pressure triggers agricultural intensiﬁcation (Boserup, 2005). A high man-land ratio coupled with low productivity leads to disguised unemployment. At the national level of India, the man-land ratio reached 21 person per hectare of net sown area in 2019. (2) Per capita income. Per capita income is an indicator of living standard and has a signiﬁcant inﬂuence on access to inputs and resources (Singh and Nayak, 2020). It also inﬂuences access to health care and educational facilities (Nayak and Jatav, 2023). Per capita income consists of income from agriculture, industry, and service sectors. We hypothesized that per capita income has positive association with agricultural sustainability in this study. At the national level of India, the per capita income is 689.63 USD in 2013. (3) Irrigation intensity. Irrigation helps to augment productivity and farm income with a reduction in risk (Singh and Nayak, 2020). Irrigation development is limited by water availability, capital constraint, and technological feasibility nowadays, therefore, high irrigation efﬁciency is desired. At the national level of India, irrigation intensity was 119.13% in 2019. (4) Road transport. The main role of transport in agriculture is to deliver agricultural products from farms to markets or cities worldwide. Proper logistics is the key to managing the assets or goods from the place of origin to consumers. In many parts of the world, farmers and producers live far away from the places of distributing agricultural products, which means that many of the supplies have to be transported to the locations of collection to be stored or simply sold (Singh and Nayak, 2020). At the national level of India, 59.20% of villages had access to road in 2011. (5) Institutional credit. Credit is one of the critical inputs for agricultural development (Jatav and Nayak, 2022), providing funds to farmers to undertake new investments or adopt new technologies. The importance of agricultural credit is further reinforced by the unique role of Indian agriculture in the macroeconomic framework along with its signiﬁcant role in poverty alleviation. Realizing the importance of agricultural credit in fostering agricultural growth and development, the institutional framework for agricultural credit is emphasized since the beginning of planned development era of India. Farmers depend on a multitude of sources of credit to meet short-term crop loans or long-term farm investment loans. Despite several attempts by the government to channelize institutional credit for agricultural sector (Kumar et al.