 • Sulphur deficiency in oilseed, pulses, cereals crops has been characterized and critical levels were established for diagnosing nutritional disorders in plants. • Technology for correcting sulphur deficiency in several crops and cropping systems using fertilizers, mine minerals, industrial by‐products, organic manures and crop residues has been developed and is being widely adopted. • IPNS technology comprising 8‐10 t/ha farm yard manure, green manure, crop residues, 3‐5 t/ha poultry manure, 1.5 – 2.5 t/ha piggary manure has been found efficient as that of 5.5 kg zinc/ha alone. IPNS approach enhances the fertilizer use efficiency by 10‐25% of zinc, www.icar.org.in 71 2002‐2007 manganese, iron to different cropping systems and helps in mobilizing nutrient from native soil pools. • Organic manure enrichment with micronutrient is found good for reducing input cost and correcting zinc deficiency in soils and environment. • More than 120 FLDs were conducted to show responses of zinc, iron, boron, manganese on oilseeds, pulses and major cereal crops in different agro‐ecological zones. Application of 5‐ 10 kg zinc /ha, 1.0‐1.5 kg boron /ha and 20‐40 kg sulphur/ha is found optimum and is widely practiced by the farmers. • Durum wheat cultivars were found more susceptible to manganese deficiency and needs 3 spray of 0.5‐1.0 % manganese sulphate solution compared to aestivum wheat which needs one spray in manganese deficient soils. • Monitored heavy metal pollution through sewage, industrial effluents in peri urban areas. Mixed sewage with industrial effluent is found more polluting soils than sewage or treated industrial effluents. Technologies are being generated for efficient use of city solid and sewage wastes and industrial effluents in agriculture with minimal environmental pollution . • Estimated the micronutrient supply needs, efficiency and policy issue, future requirements by 2020 for Indian soils and crops. Published Report of Task Force on Micronutrient in collaboration with Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizers for its implementation . www.icar.org.in 72 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management AICRP on Optimizing Groundwater Utilization Through Wells and Pumps 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Optimizing Groundwater Utilization through Wells and pumps 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. Ashwani Kumar Director Water Technology Centre For Eastern Region Chandrasekharpur, Opposite Rail Vihar Bhubaneswar‐ 751 023, Orissa Phone: 0674‐ 2300060 Fax: 0674‐ 2301651 E‐mail: ashwani_wtcer@yahoo.com, wtcer@ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): Theme‐I: Regional groundwater assessment and modeling • Groundwater simulation models for various tracts of Punjab state were developed for simulating the groundwater behaviour using Prickett Lonnquist Aquifer Simulation Model (PLASM).