 • Addition of FYM not only met out hidden hunger of micro and secondary nutrient but also acted as ameliorating agent which improved the nutrient use efficiency by crops and also improved the soil health. • Excess application of P may be avoided to curtail wasteful expenditure. • In Alfisols, application of lime is essential to maintain soil pH, which in turn maintain the supply of nutrient to crop. Application of FYM is also equally effective in sustaining the yield in Alfisols. www.icar.org.in 54 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management AICRP on Micro & Secondary Nutrients & Pollutant Elements in Soil & Plants 1. Title of the Project : All India Coordinated Research Project on Micro and Secondary Nutrients and Pollutant elements in Soil and Plants 2. Name and Address of the Project Coordinator : Dr. M.V. Singh Project Coordinator (Micronutrient) Indian Institute of Soil Science Nabibagh, Berasia Road, Bhopal‐462 038. Tel: +91‐755‐2734487 Fax: +91‐755‐2733310 Email: mvs@iiss.ernet.in 3. Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years): 3. Major achievements of research Delineation of Micro and Secondary Nutrients deficient areas • With the advent of Green Revolution first, micronutrient deficiencies became one of the serious constraint in achieving maximum crop yields. So systematic surveys were carried out to delineate micro and secondary nutrient deficient areas in various talukas, district, states and country as whole. Accordingly, based on 2.50 lakh soil samples , micronutrient status has been evaluated and deficiency of micronutrients is assessed. Delineation of micronutrient deficient area and soil fertility mapping for zinc, copper, iron and manganese has been prepared using percent deficiency, nutrient index and response of crops to micronutrients use. • In collaboration with NBSSLUP Nagpur, total 55 GIS based soil fertility maps has been prepared at taluka/ district, state level/ national level and agro ecological zone wise. These have been given the Secretary (Fertilizer), Ministry of Chemicals and Fertilizer for developing strategies for micronutrient manufacturing and supply under Prime minister mission on agricultural. Development (Plate 11‐20). These maps are given to ICAR and Agriculture commissioner for developing suitable strategies for correction of micronutrient deficiencies. • Average deficiency of zinc, iron, copper, manganese was found in 48. 12. 5, and 4 percent soils of India. The deficiency of zinc was more in soils having low organic carbon, high soil pH, High calcium carbonate etc. Zinc deficiency is most wide spared. Its deficiency was recorded less than 40% in AEZ 1, 2, 5, 15, 16, 18, 19; 40‐50% in AEZ 9, II, 12; 50‐55% in AEZ 4, 7, 13 and> 55% in remaining zones of country. www.icar.org.