 With the guidance and support of KVK scientists, the group established a venture dedicated to producing potato and banana chips. They received essential equipment such as a potato peeler machine, potato slicer, and a potato variety known as Kufri Chipsona through KVK under the ARYA project. Previously, the WSHG primarily engaged in making papads and ladoos. However, with the help of critical inputs and newfound knowledge, they diversified their product range to include potato and banana chips, as well as masala, ladoo, and papad. Thanks to this venture, the WSHG now generates a commendable net income of ₹1,14,240 annually. Integrated farming system in tsunami affected areas of Andaman and Nicobar Islands (KVK, South Andaman) Shri M M Joydhar, a small-scale farmer with a family of five, manages a 2.5 ha landholding. Prior to December 2004, his land was dedicated to paddy cultivation during the rainy kharif season, and a portion of it was used for growing vegetables in the dry period, utilizing the limited water available from his pond. However, the devastating earthquake and subsequent Tsunami in 2004 led to seawater inundation, rendering the land unsuitable for cultivation. In April 2014, Scientists from KVK, south Andaman, engaged with Shri M M Joydhar to assess the resources available with him. They collected pre-adoption resource data and benchmark information, and devised a layout plan that covered 1.5 ha of land using an integrated approach, taking into account the land’s topography. Activities included cleaning the pond using mahua oil cake and pond preparation through the addition of manure, specifically cow dung. Ducks were introduced to enhance fertility and aid in pond aeration, fostering optimal conditions for fish growth. Additionally, alongside coconut trees, saplings of fruit- bearing trees such as banana, guava, custard apple, sapota, lemon and pineapple were provided for planting on the pond’s embankments. Shri M M Joydhar adopted a mixed farming system in his fields, implementing techniques like Broad Bed and Furrow (BBF) methods and ridge and furrow planting. These methods enabled the cultivation of aerial vegetables, with the use of machans (nylon fishing wire) on the furrows for support and growth. Initially Shri Joydhar’s annual income was of ₹1,65,000 through fish farming, cultivating Indian major carps, bhendi, cucurbitaceous plants, and coconut, among other activities. Due to the interventions provided by KVK, including the implementation of ridges and furrows, integration of crops, crop rotation involving leguminous and leafy vegetables, and the introduction of intensive poultry farming, his annual income saw a substantial increase to ₹4,64,435. With the newfound benefits, he has constructed a small house near by the farms. More than six off-campus training programmes and field days were conducted in his field to show the effectiveness of the technology in the field condition.