 Water supplies are often inconsistent, severely dependent on weather patterns, and unequally distributed, both spatially and temporally. In India, the climate is dominated by the monsoons. Monsoonal precipitation is not uniform throughout the country, and it creates erratic events, such as floods and droughts, which affect strategies and policies on water resource man­ agement (Saraf and Regulwar, 2018). As the globe continues to warm, an increasing number of water-related issues are expected. Additionally, the estimated increment of urban sprawl, deforestation, intensive industrialisation, and population growth further pressure the water and food security. A significant global warming has occurred in the last five decades (Jarraud and Steiner, 2012; Mancosu et al., 2015). If current K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions rates are maintained, the global average temperature is likely to increase by nearly 5 ◦C or more by the end of the 21st century (Krishnan et al., 2020). The mean temperature over India by the end of the 21st century is predicted to increase by 2.4–4.4 ◦C considering a GHG warming scenario (RCP8.5, the high- emission climate change scenario) compared to the average tempera­ ture in 1976–2005 (Krishnan et al., 2020). The temperature rise attributed to global warming is not uniform. Some areas experience greater warming and, thus, present more intense effects, including changes in rainfall patterns and higher temperature extremes. India is expected to witness more extreme climatic conditions in the future. Extreme dry and hot conditions that lead to more intense droughts and floods are likely to occur more frequently under future climate change scenarios. The frequency and spatial extent of droughts have increased significantly from 1951 to 2016 (Krishnan et al., 2020). In particular, areas over central India, southwest coast, southern peninsula, and north-eastern India have experienced on average more than two droughts per decade in that period. The area affected by drought has also increased by 1.3% per decade over the same period. Climate model projections indicate a high likelihood of an increase in the frequency (>2 events per decade), intensity, and area under drought conditions in India by the end of the 21st century under the RCP8.5 scenario because of the high variability in monsoon precipitation (Krishnan et al., 2020). Given the significance of global warming effects, an increase in future drought risks in India is expected, especially in central areas. Therefore, the frequency and drought conditions in the future need to be investigated and future changes and the potential impacts must be analyzed.