 Soil application of these consortia after planting can be useful to achieve more than 80% reduction in disease incidence even under high inoculum pressure condition. Identified molecular markers specific to Indian Foc of Race 1, TR4, Race 4 and STR4. Identified potential phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB), viz., Enterobacter hormaechii ssp. sakuensis (PSB52) and Leclercia adecarboxylata (PSB54) which excellently increased the available P in the soil as well as in the plant and thereby increased the growth and yield parameters significantly compared to control. Knowledge Management System for Agriculture Extension Services in Indian NARES: In the project design and development of Agricultural Technology Management Portal to Strengthen Agricultural Extension and Knowledge Sharing was carried out. On the portal KVKs have uploaded their Monthly Progress Report (MPR) on key parameters in the system. Dashboard for Krishi Kalyan Abhiyan (KKA-III) has been developed. State level and District level reports have been added in the dashboard. Month wise KVK KPIs data is submitted in National level DARPAN dashboard for the KPIs viz. ‘Farmer Training’, ‘Mobile Agro Advisories’ and ‘Agriculture Extension Activities’. Master data has been added in the portal for newly formed KVKs. KVK portal has been linked to Kisan Suvidha Portal/App through Web API for displaying the information on basic details of KVKs, facilities available in KVKs, packages and practices developed by KVKs. Application of next generation breeding, genotyping and digitization approaches for improving the genetic gain in Indian staple crops: A comprehensive breeding programme including measuring genetic gain, development of product profiles, genomic selection modules, breeding data management and breeding pipeline optimizations was designed to increase the rate of genetic gain in stable crops viz. rice, wheat, pearl millet, sorgum, maize, chick pea, pigeon pea, potato etc. Compared the conventional breeding pipeline, the new pipeline included components such as: utilizing only elite lines in the breeding program, no phenotypic selection for quantitative traits during the segregation generation, rapid generation advancement through single-seed- descent (SSD) method, implementing multi- location evaluation, sparse testing and spatial designs for testing the breeding populations, 85 implementation of genomic predictions to estimate breeding values and rapid recycling of elite lines from the breeding program . In wheat developed product profiles targeting seven varieties namely HD2967 and HD3086 for timely sown NWPZ; HD3059 and Sriram 303 for late sown NWPZ; HD2733 and Sriram 303 for timely sown NEPZ. Varietal replacement strategies in HHB 67 and MPMH 17 in pearl millet, CSH 25 and M 35-1 in sorghum, Bio-9544 and Bio-9682 in maize and product profiles formulated based in those crops was carried out.