 To boost the diffusion of technology, strengthening extension services, and encouraging farmer’s interaction in Krishi Vigyan Kendra as well as in Agricultural Fairs/ Exhibitions is critical. v. The household-level differences explain 69 % of the variation in the area under modern varieties of paddy, 53 % in the case of wheat and 37 percent in the case of maize. vi. Adoption study is useful to research organizations to develop appropriate research programs and projects to promote adoption of newer varieties. IFPRI is now focusing on the adoption and impact of modern varieties of selected horticultural crops. In consultation with Deputy Director General (Horticulture), a set of horticultural crops—Banana, Brinjal, Onion, Potato and Tomato—have been selected for the study. In 2019, varietal adoption surveys of horticulture crops were conducted in six states and in 2020 the survey is being conducted in seven states. Constraints to green revolution in eastern India Financial inclusion Eastern India is lagging in agriculture sector as compared to other parts of India. The region is bestowed with best of resources, but agricultural performance has been poor despite government commitments. In 2018-19, the primary surveys were conducted to assess the impact of credit on rice and wheat productivity and rural households’ income. Around 5000 farm households and 400 bank functionaries were interviewed from Bihar, Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha and West Bengal. The access to institutional credit in eastern India has the potential to increase: i. rice and wheat yield by 11.9 and 11.0 percent, respectively; and ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 37 ii. household income by about 19 percent. However, access to credit affects recipients heterogeneously which means differential approaches for different categories rather than a “one-size-fits-all” approach. Rural non-farm employment The importance of rural non-farm employment (RNFE) has witness accelerated growth over time. The same trend was witness in eastern India. Our study shows that diversification towards RNFE increase rural household income and reduce rural poverty. However, the impact depends on the type of engagement in RNFE. For instance, the participation in regular salaried job in non-farm sector increases the household income by 50 percent while the self- employed in RNFE increases household income by 16 percent. However, casual labourers engaged in non-farm activity continue to be vulnerable. Output from the activity includes three research papers, one discussion paper and three newspaper opinion pieces. Impact of KVKs on farm households’ economic welfare There is a large network of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) across the country with primary mandate of technology assessment and demonstration.