 It plays an important role in the proper solu­ bilization of fertilizers, pesticides and insecticides. For irrigation water with high pH, EC and SAR ratios, it becomes difficult to reach the crop root zone due to the reduced infiltration process. Khadke-Madke and most of Hatgaon’s areas scored high in the environmental component. Some parts of Mayagaon and Apegaon have been observed with low values in the environmental dimension. The pH of the irrigation water with sampled respondents was measured. A significant number of respondents have pH levels above the allowable limit for irrigation. Enormous variations in fertilizer in units of acre land (kg/ha) for the sugarcane crop in the study are observed. Some use five bags per acre, while others use around 20 bags per acre. Higher reliance on ready-to-use chemical fertilizer is unsustainable as there are issues with its availability, quality, timely use and proper use (diluted form than concentrated form). Most farmers use herbicides. Use is lower on many farms (Fig. 7). However, the type of herbicide used varies widely in the study area. Lack of knowledge, less presence on the farm, lack of manpower, labor costs, etc. are the reasons for using more herbicides. This information was collected during the survey. The use of herbi­ cides impairs the growth of micro bacteria in the soil, thus hindering the conversion to the mineral form or the solubilisation of NPK nutrients. From Fig. 4; the AWPI mainly depends on capacity, usage and access component. It is noted that access to water is negatively dependent on water resources. This may be due to the capacity component that de­ pends on the socio-economic aspect of farmers. The result indicates that farmers are poor in terms of capacity factors and have less water resources. AWPI near and away from Canals of Jayakwadi Dam: Water use efficiency with farm-level practices and technologies plays a critical role in the wise use of water resources. Furthermore, large- scale infrastructure is not enough, knowledge and skills at farm level is a key [13]. It is important to know the resource use patterns and the socio- economic situation of the farmers along the canal. It can help to have efficient policy and water resource management. Without planning and a driving force to use water resources effectively, changing attitudes towards irrigation practices and technologies will be difficult [25]. From Table 2, Table 3, Table 4; there is an urgent need to apply water efficient technologies at agricultural level. Providing subsidies for drip and sprinkler irrigation can be a top priority. The government can focus on subsidies for transmission lines. Table 2 Independent Sample T-Test. T df p Cohen’s d RESOURCE 3.430 28 < .001 1.416 ACCESS 1.242 28 0.112a 0.513 USE −3.502 28 0.999 −1.446 CAPACITY −1.180 28 0.876 −0.487 ENVIRONMENT 1.111 28 0.138 0.459 AWPI 0.164 28 0.436a 0.068 Note.