 The increased emphasis on species diversification during these years has directed for development of breeding and seed production technologies for several finfish species and also important crustacean species. In this endeavor, the research institutes of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) during last six decades have developed breeding and seed production technologies of more than 60 species of freshwater, brackishwater and marine ecosystems in order to meet the demand for both farmers and the market. The species include high valued species having system-specific and region-specific demand, short production cycles and many of them are uncommon/unknown to the aquaculture industry in the country as next generation fishes for farming. The documentation of these technologies in the present book entitled “ICAR Technologies for Breeding and Seed Production of Finfishes and Shellfishes” is an effort to popularize species diversification in fish farming and providing avenues for increasing income of the fish farmers in the wake of Hon’ble Prime Ministers call for Doubling Farmers’ Income by 2022. These technology briefs have been compiled from the available information in the form of research papers and other scientific reports published in different ICAR Fisheries Research Institutes. It may be pertinent to mention that the contributors indicated against different species may not be the inventors of the technologies, but have been involved with the demonstration of the technology. We are thankful to Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR for suggesting such a document and also for consistent encouragement in bringing out this publication. We are also thankful to all the contributors in sharing briefs of the technologies and the Directors of Fisheries Research Institutes of ICAR viz., CMFRI, CIFA, CIBA, DCFR and NBFGR for their support in the preparation of this document. We also thank the Project Director and the staff of DKMA for publication of this document. S. Raizada P. Pravin J.K. Jena  Sl. No. Scientific and Common Name Page A. Finfishes Freshwater Finfishes 1 Catla catla, Catla 1 2 Labeo rohita, Rohu 2 3 Labeo calbasu, Kalbasu 3 4 Labeo gonius, Kuria Rohu 4 5 Labeo fimbriatus, Fringed lipped Carp 5 6 Labeo pangusia, Pangusia Labeo 6 7 Labeo dussumieri, Malabar Labeo 7 8 Labeo bata, Bata 8 9 Labeo dyocheilus, Kali Rohu 9 10 Cirrhinus mrigala, Mrigal 10 11 Cirrhinus reba, Reba 11 12 Puntius sarana sarana, Olive Barb 12 13 Chagunius chagunio, Chaguni Barb 13 14 Bengana dero, Kalaban 14 15 Osteobrama belangari, Pengba 15 16 Tor putitora, Golden Mahseer 16 17 Neolissochilus hexagonolepis, Chocolate Mahseer 17 18 Naziritor chelynoides, Dark Mahseer 18 19 Schozothorax richardsonii, Indian Snow Trout 19 20 Clarias magur, Magur 20 21 Clarias dussumeiri, Valencienees Clariid 21 CONTENTS Sl. No.