 In addition, communities and farmers also need to have property rights to ensure that their seeds and genetic resources are not exploited for commercial purposes without adequate compensation and to ensure that benefits from sales of their crops and seeds are locally protected. The conservation and use of genetic resources will remain vital for improving productivity in agriculture and sustaining human presence and well-being. Three key functions of genetic resources are identified: sustained production of food, biological support to production, and ecological services. Because of the high level of human interference in the management of genetic resources, conservation in the production system is linked to sustainable use. This makes conservation through protected areas of much less relevance, nonetheless, in an industrial-type agricultural system, much diversity is now held in ex situ Genebanks or breeders’ materials rather than on-farm. In more traditional systems, farmers actively manage agricultural biodiversity on-farm in order to improve productivity and maintain sustainability; they adapt to the changing needs and circumstances. Building complementarity among agriculture, biodiversity, and conservation of genetic resources also requires change in agricultural research and development, land use, and breeding approaches. The natural populations of many species of crop wild relatives, wild economic species, wild fauna etc. are increasingly at risk due to habitat loss and by increasing destruction of natural habitat. 73 6. Conclusion Effective conservation and use of agro-biodiversity are of immense importance in the present scenario, as was in Gandhian thoughts. There is a need for managing genetic resources for food and agriculture in ways that promote the evolution and conservation of agro-biodiversity to adapt to changing environment by developing new climate resilient varieties/breeds for food and nutritional security, while ensuring their availability to all stakeholders for use. Climate change will also increase the importance of minor or other underutilized crops and plant species. Therefore, all forms of agro-biodiversity needs to be collected through regular explorations, conserved through suitable means, characterized and evaluated using modern technologies to ensure their availability for improvement programmes of food and agriculture today and tomorrow (Mohapatra 2016). In addition, conservation of agro-biodiversity is vital to increased productivity, food security, robust and stable farming systems, and ecosystems. Traditional communities, particularly women, have played a significant role in the conservation of traditional varieties, especially in fragile agro-ecosystems. The role of women and these communities need to be acknowledged and appreciated through rewards while implementing on-farm conservation strategies.