 Dough for bait  FISHERIES or dried; moist bread or flour) was taken up for preparation protocols through laboratoru trials which serves as the bait. For preparation of wet bait about 2 g of dry bread and ghee each were weighed and mixed thoroughly along with ant eggs (2 g) and a few drops of water and kneaded to form the dough, which serves as the bait. The dough had better consistency and could easily be made into bait balls for fixing the rod and line. Validation of baits for their efficiency in catching fishes is in progress. Deep freshwater bodies were identified in Bethmangala and KGF, Kolar district, which have major carps and air- breathing fishes, by practical inspection and interviewing the traditional fishermen and officers of Department of Fisheries. For preparation of dry bait about 2 g each of dry bread and ghee were mixed thoroughly along with ant eggs (2 g) and kneaded to form the dough,  FISHERIES Code : 1298 Title of the ITK : Traditional method of preserving fish Description of the ITK : Frying of fishes increases their preservation quality under local conditions. Fish are cleaned with water. A mixture of juice of four lime (20 ml), 30-50 g turmeric powder, 10 g colour jalebi is prepared in one litre water. Small fish as such and large fish in pieces are placed in the mixture for 20-25 minutes. These fishes are then placed on the dry grass or hay. The grass is subjected to fire. The fish are fried dry in this method and are as such preserved. This is practised in Kanderkhera village in Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. . Name and address of the discloser : Shri S. Punekar, Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 Location of use of the ITK : The ITK is in use in Kunderkhera, Gosalpur, Katchpura and Budagarh villages of Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. Generally, darhee (Puntius sophore), singhi (H. fossile), patola (N. notopterus) and murrela (Basilius bola) are locally found in the area which are preserved by this method and sold. The fishermen get more time for sale and also fetch better prices. Further, they do not have other method to increase the shelf-life in the absence of ice, which is not available in the villages. If not treated, the fish is spoiled within 8-10 hours and the fisherman had to bear the loss since they are not able to sell within this short period. Experimenter : Dr (Ms) Shagufta Jamal, Reader, Department of Adult and Continuing Education and Extension, Jamia Millia Islamia, Jamianagar (New Delhi) 110 025. METHODOLOGY Location PRA and field study Pilot study was conducted through PRA to find out the details of ITK actually being practised by fishermen in Kunderkhera, Gosalpur, Katchpera and Budagarh villages in Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. To quantify the efficacy of ITK, four alternative practices, viz.