, the success will be measured by the additional numbers of KVKs with such facilities. The number of trainings/demonstrations conducted will indicate quantum of outreach efforts. Objective 12: The objective of support for promotion of gender issues aims at addressing the R&D needs of farm women. The performance indicator gives number of gender-specific programmes conducted and technology backstopping provided. Performance and monitoring requirements for the mandatory indicators concerning the RFD will be followed as per the uniform parameters to be decided for the RFMS by the Performance Management Division, Cabinet Secretariat.  of 20 Section 5: Specific performance requirements from other departments that are critical for delivering agreed results for 2010-2011 1. Support of Planning Commission is necessary to take up the new initiatives/ proposals of the Department. Timely approvals and allocation of approved funds is critical for achieving the targets. Subsequent to the Annual Plan 2010-11 discussions held in Planning Commission on the proposals/justification submitted, against the proposed demand of Rs. 4000 crore only Rs. 2300 crore has been allocated at BE stage. This could greatly hamper the realization of the envisaged success indicators, and also have a cascading effect in the subsequent years. 2. Ministry of Finance considers/concurs/approves the EFC proposals of the Department in terms of the financial and manpower requirement. This support of Department of Expenditure, Ministry of Finance will be crucial for realization of appropriate performance, including meeting the deadlines and also in providing funds as per the SFC/EFC allocation. 3. Strengthening of agricultural universities will depend on their initiative/responsiveness, including the timely implementation by the respective SAUs/AUs and fund utilization. 4. Approval of Layout plans and execution of works will require commitment and timeliness on the part of the Works Departments. 5. The quantity of breeder seed produced is based on the quantity indented by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, which in turn collects indents from various seed agencies including State Departments of Agriculture. 6. Establishment of KVKs and strengthening of existing KVK shall depend upon timely availability of sufficient funds and other resources, and cooperation from state departments and local bodies, and a smooth implementation by the agencies managing KVKs. 7. Technology adoption would depend upon the proactive role of development departments namely DAC, DAHD&AF; and SAUs, etc.  of 20 Signed Minster of Agriculture, Consumer Affairs, Food & Public Distribution Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR 

2002­07 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Directorate of Information & Publications of Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, New Delhi‐110012 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture www.icar.org.in 2 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Horticulture S.No. Project Page No.