 Experimental designs for polycross trials: A series of polycross designs for v genotypes (where v+1 is a prime number) in v/2 squares of size v each Impact of technology growth on selected macro-economic outcomes Social Science presence of tariff hikes as in Scenarios A and B. The TFP experienced a growth of 1.5% after the mid-2000s, and it is assumed to grow at a rate of 2%. Scenarios E and F presume a higher rate of TFP growth of 3%. As a reference case, the trade liberalization is also studied in Scenario G. The impacts are assessed on domestic oilseed and edible oil production, farm income, and general price level. The contribution of technology is stronger than that of tariff hikes. When the existing tariff rates are doubled, the imports of edible oil decline by 18%. Since it inflates edible oil prices, the oilseed prices also increase through the demand effect. Still, the response of production is low, only 1.7%, which, far below the requirement to compensate for the edible oil demand. When the TFP grows at a rate of 2%, the oilseed production increases by 17% even after imposing higher tariffs. It also leads to a higher rate of reduction in the edible oil imports. As part of the production is consumed by the households, the marginal reductions are less. A greater response is observed in both the oilseed and edible oil production with TFP growth. TFP growth brings about a decline in prices even in the case of tariff hikes. Rural income also rises when production technology improves despite a fall in oilseed prices. The impact of removing tariffs on oilseeds works in the opposite direction. It leads to a surge in edible oil imports and fails to increase oilseeds production. Although the consumers benefit, the cost to the Government inflates, pushing up the fiscal deficit. Thus, tariffs could be an icar annual report 2022-23 162 and each genotype replicated v2/2 times, balanced for neighbours in eight directions was obtained. Another series of polycross designs for v genotypes (where v is an odd number) in v arrays of size (v+1)/2 ×v each and each genotype replicated v(v+1)/2 times, balanced for neighbours in 8 directions, was developed. Developed a general method of constructing a series of neighbour restricted row-column designs for polycross trials in v (=4m) genotypes with two groups having 2m genotypes each in m arrays of size 2×v each and each genotype replicated v/2 times. SAS Macros were developed to generate these three series of polycross designs. For easy accessibility and quick reference of polycross trials by the experimenters, an online software was developed. Slice Latin Hypercube Designs (SLHD): Developed methods of construction for (i) SLHD with equal batch size; (ii) SLHD with unequal batch size; (iii) Orthogonal SLHD with equal batch size; and (iv) Orthogonal SLHD with unequal batch size.