 Population diversity analysis and genome-wide association study (GWAS) of locule number and fruit shape traits (perimeter, area, obovoid, ellipsoid and morphometrics) in Capsicum chinense pepper has shown significant single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs), located in candidate genes such as WD- 40, CLAVATA1; and Auxin receptors affect fruit shape in tomato. This knowledge of genes that control these agriculturally important traits will lead to developing varieties with desirable fruit characteristics and higher nutritional value in horticultural crop breeding programmes. Various bioinformatics tools such as the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST) and CLUSTAL can help further exploring various horticultural crops with nutritive value and can identify relevant biochemical pathways to tune the production of compounds of interest. Experiments have shown that pepper containing diets can significantly effect body weight and triglyceride content in Drosophila. Recent advances in genome and molecular analyses have made it possible to dissect and understand the hidden cues of trait diversity at the molecular level. These developments offer new opportunities to improve valuable traits in crops using genomic tools. The combination of rapidly advancing genome-editing technology with breeding will greatly increase horticultural crop production and quality. Key takeaway Precise genome editing technologies along with enhanced trait architecture would enable innovative solutions for improving horticultural crops. 99 Cutting-edge Research IMPROVING PHOSPHORUS-USE EFFICIENCY USING A LARGE SET OF CHICKPEA GERMPLASM Kadambot H.M Siddique Global phosphorus reserves have a lifespan of 207 global years ( taking 300– 400 years to convert into fertilizers). Thus, the limited phosphorus sources must be used judiciously. Phosphorus is a non- renewable source, with its fixation in soil further reducing its availability. There is a global agronomic phosphorus imbalance, with 30 per cent of the cropland area phosphorus deficient and 70 per cent phosphorus surplus. Phosphorus is an essential nutrient for plant growth required for photosynthesis, a key component of nucleic acids and phospholipids and important in cell division and new tissue development. Phosphorus acquisition in chickpea can increase by developing genotypes with improved phosphorus acquisition, optimizing phosphorus management and researching below-ground traits Prof. Kadambot H.M Siddique, Hackett Professor of Agriculture and Director of The University of Western Australia’s (UWA) Institute of Agriculture, has significant expertise in agricultural research, teaching and management. 100 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series associated with phosphorus acquisition.