 In terms of cost, the ITK was highly effective than the allopathic treatment. Contents Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY : 1595 : Use of bantulsi {Ocimum gratissimum) leaf paste for treatment of khurha (FMD) in cattle and buffalo : Bantulsi has medicinal properties against FMD. Paste of its leaves is prepared after grinding it along with water and is applied on the infected foot of cattle and buffalo at least twice daily for 3-4 days. The practice is prevalent in Barmasa village of Jarmundi block in Dumka district (Jharkhand) and has potential for spread in the areas where bantulsi is available. Success has been reported in more than 75% of the cases. Name and address of the discloser : Location of use of the ITK Experimenters Shri Varun Lai, C/o Lok Jagriti Kendra, 52 Bigha, Madhupur, Deoghar (Jharkhand) Barmasa, Jarmundi, Dumka (Jharkhand) Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI) Dr D. Swarup, Principal Scientist and Head, Division of Medicine, I.V.R.I., Izatnagar; and DrT.J. Rasool, Principal Scientist, Dr R.K. Singh, Head, Division of Virology, Dr V. Bhanuprakash, Scientist and Dr Ram Naresh, Scientist, I.V.R.I., Mukteswar, dist Nainital. West Bengal University of Animal Sciences and Fishery Sciences (WBUAFS), Kolkata Dr N.R. Pradhan, Professor and Head and Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Veterinary and Animal Science, Kolkata 700 037 (West Bengal) METHODOLOGY Experiment IVRI Use of bantulsi was found slightly effective in treatment of foot lesions in clinical cases of FMD during the validation trial conducted at Veterinary College, BAU, Ranchi in 2003. Therefore it was recommended for cross-sectoral validation and in-vitro antiviral activity trials. Preparation of extracts: Aqueous and alcoholic extracts of bantulsi were prepared as per standard protocol and put to solubility test. Both the extracts readily dissolved in sterile distilled water. A 10 mg/ml stock of extracts was made in sterile distilled water and filtered separately using 0.22 mm filters. The filtrates were used for cytotoxicity in BHK2| and vero cell lines. Cytotoxicity study: Initially, different concentrations of the extracts were prepared in GMEM/EMEM with 1 % new born calf serum or bovine calf serum from the stock solutions. BHK21 or vero cells were grown to confluence for 48 hr in 24-well plates. Then the monolayers were washed with GMEM/EMEM containing 1% Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE NBCS/BCS and antibiotics. Later each extract concentrations in GMEM/EMEM with 1% NBCS/BCS in quadruplicates was fed on to the confluent monolayer with appropriate controls. The plates were incubated at 37°C with 5% CO2 for 96 hr up to 144 hr. The cells were observed at 24 hr intervals for cytotoxicity and the following changes were noted.