 The thrust of NARP was to strengthen the regional research capabilities of the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) as an important means of finding solutions to the location specific problems in different agro-climatic zones (Raman and Balaguru 1988) The Agricultural Human Resource Development (AHRD) project, with World Bank Support, launched in 1995, aimed at enabling the institutions in building excellence in specific strategic areas in education and research, promoting holistic higher agricultural education by blending knowledge, skill and attitude through Experiential Learning Units, infrastructural development, gender mainstreaming and capacity building and Institutional reforms (ICAR 2014-15). The National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) project was initiated with the financial assistance of World Bank and piloted by ICAR in 1998. The NATP aimed at testing the new approaches to technology transfer, new organizational arrangements, and operational procedures. The goals included decentralize decision making to the district level; increase farmer input into program planning and resource allocation especially at the block level and increase program coordination and integration. The major outcome is the institutionalization of Priority Setting Monitoring & Evaluation (PME) system for its institutes. Indian Agriculture after Independence 420 The National Agricultural Innovation Project (NAIP) was launched in 2006 with the objective of accelerating the sustainable transformation of Indian agriculture in support of poverty alleviation and income generation by collaborative development and application of agricultural innovations by the public organizations in partnership with farmers’ groups, private sector and other stakeholders. At present the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) is implemented since 2017 with the aim to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities in the areas of higher education. 4.7. Organizational Reforms 4.7.1. Initiation of Agricultural Research Service The journey of ICAR since 1929 has been evolutionary with periodic reforms. The effectiveness of the organization largely depends upon the quality and quantum of work done by the Scientists which required attracting talents into agricultural research with pan-India personnel policies. With this broad objective, the Union Cabinet approved the Agricultural Research Service on October 1, 1975. Dr. M.S. Swaminathan, the then DG, ICAR spearheaded in formation of Agricultural Research Services (ARS) a pan India research service for the entry level scientists.