 Training representatives of both men and women in every local self-governing body can enhance the coping capacity of farm families [60]. Intercropping has significant potential to improve vegetable production sustainably, while a comprehensive approach to creating systems perspectives is urgently needed to mitigate the negative effects of edaphic factors [61]. Different regions of India face varying climatic challenges and necessitate distinct approaches for achieving resilience and sustainability [62]. In areas with a high and very high risk to crops due to water shortage, increasing temperatures, and precipitation variation, climate-smart agriculture practices should be adopted [63]. Cultivation of crops resilient to climate change is another method for achieving resilience and sustainability. For instance, finger millet can aid farmers in achieving adaptation and resilience [63]. Integrating disaster management and agricultural risk is vital to enhancing climate resilience among farming communities in flood plains [64]. Policymakers should encourage training for livelihood diversification, increased use of digital technologies, and the practice of conservation agriculture to reduce climate risk [65]. The promotion of local insects and bees by growing hedges, flowering plants, and cooling ponds can help maintain biodiversity [66]. Combined soil-water-vegetation efforts can fortify water resilience in the agricultural sector [67]. Donors should support sus­ tainable seed innovation, and the Farmers’ Rights Act should encourage the protection of plant and sustainable innovations through incentives to farmers [68]. 3.9. Climate change (cluster 2) The second cluster, referred to as CC (Fig. 5), is denoted by green-colored nodes, and the articles in this cluster mainly focus on the impact of climate change on agriculture and food systems in India, as well as perceptions and mitigation strategies related to CC. This cluster consists of eight sub-topics, namely adaptation strategies, resilience, wheat, perception, Decision Support System for Agro­ technology Transfer, rainfed agriculture, maize, and impacts. A summary of the statistical information related to this cluster is pre­ sented in Table 7. 3.9.1. Perception of CC and adaptation strategies The reviewed studies suggest that farmers recognize the impact of CC on their livelihoods and endeavor to adapt to the evolving conditions [69]. Farmers perceive alterations in climatic patterns, such as rising temperatures and prolonged dry spells, and have noticed changes in crop phenology and livestock productivity [70]. Factors like crop diversification, adoption of heat-resistant crops, adjusting planting dates, agroforestry, and modification of water management strategies have been employed by farmers to minimize the risks linked to climate change [69]. However, barriers to adaptation exist, such as high input costs and limited awareness of effective adaptation technologies [31].