25 ha Three buffaloes and two cows Vermicompost unit–Six beds Green fodder unit–Napier grass, Rye grass, Fodder beat Nursery unit–Vegetables/fruits Net income 2,00000/year (Two times in year) 500000/year (Regular income) Employment generation 300 mandays/annum `850 mandays/annum Indian Farming 8 April 2023 Source: All the photos were captured by scientist team or provided by the farmer. Pulses production for nutrient security Livestock unit as an integral part of IFS Two-tier horticulture system (guava + onion seed production) Farmer to farmer dissemination of IFS approach Exhibition of IFS stall (Mr Ghanshyam) at Krishi Vigyan Mela Vegetable production (potato) for income enhancement Technical support by multi-disciplanary scientist's team of Agriculture University, Kota at farmer’s field Appreciation certificate for IFS approach systems with location specific, need- based integration of components/ enterprises are essential to meet the very basic objectives of IFS. Integration of components such as crops, horticulture, dairy, poultry, goatary, aquaculture, apiary etc. can be done for improving the production, profitability, employment in a sustainable way. SUMMARY Based on the experience of Mr Ghanshyam, Integrated farming systems approach proved to be an effective tool in enhancing productivity, profitability as well as nutritional security through diversification and intensification of enterprises with the adoption of improved component technologies for optimum utilization of resources. The holistic approach also aided in meeting household requirement in terms of providing food and nutritional security to the farmers. Farmers experienced, that IFS is a novel approach for more employment generation, regular source of income and reducing cost of production, fetching higher economic returns as compared to conventional practices on the same piece of land. Thus, farmers of the Haroti region of Rajasthan have been gradually shifting from conventional crop-based farming to Integrated farming system approach for food, nutrition, income and livelihood security. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: jptetarwal@gmail.com Share your experiences with Indian Farming Write to: Editor INDIAN FARMING Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 indfarm@icar.org.in Indian Farming 9 April 2023 Blast disease: A threat to finger millet cultivation Swagata Thakur* ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi 110 012 Finger millet (Eleusine coracana L. Gaertn), commonly known as Ragi or Mandua is a nutritionally important coarse cereal and a traditional crop widely grown under varied agroclimatic regions, especially in semi-arid areas of African and Asian countries and plays a key role in the livelihood of small-holding farmers in these regions.