 yy Direct seeded rice with good weed management/ herbicide tolerant basmati rice can be preferred in areas experiencing labour shortages for transplanted paddy in addition to water saving. Line and Machine transplanting on custom hiring basis is advised. yy Seed treatment with recommended chemicals/ bio-pesticides/ bio- inoculants in all crops especially where farm saved seed/ untreated commercial seed is used to improve seed germination, better crop stand, pest and disease and higher productivity. yy Nutrient management and fertilizer application in all crops to be based on soil test to save on input use and reduce cost of cultivation. For example, phosphorous application in transplanted paddy/ direct seed rice / basmati rice can be skipped if P fertilizer was applied to preceding wheat crop. Similarly, in fields where green manuring has been practiced, urea application may be reduced in paddy. yy Micro-nutrient deficiencies in various crops and locations where it was observed during previous season to be corrected either through basal application of Zinc or Iron or through foliar application. yy Cost effective integrated pest management options in various crops for avoiding crop loss and maximizing returns especially neck blast in rice (tolerant variety), fall army worm in kharif maize; whitefly, pink bollworm and boll rot in cotton; BPH in rice; pod borers and diseases in pulses and oilseed crops (pigeon pea, green gram and black gram, soybean, groundnut and sesame) and pests/diseases in kharif onion and horticultural crops. Integrated crop and pest management is important in crop expansion of oilseed crops to non- traditional areas as in the case of soybean (73 districts), sunflower (63 districts) and sesame (59 districts) and nutri-cereal crops (202 districts) and exotic crops. yy In rainfed areas, best bet drought proofing practices have been suggested such as tolerant short duration varieties, in situ soil 5 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS moisture conservation practices and planting methods and increase in-field crop diversity through intercropping and crop combinations depending on agro-ecology. yy In livestock, poultry, small ruminants and fisheries, best practices related to selection of disease free and tolerant breeds, feed and health management have been recommended in the advisories. yy In view of the on-going pandemic, kharif advisories to be increasingly disseminated through e-communication channels such electronic / social media/ mobile apps etc. General guidelines/advisories for field operations: yy Sanitize the equipment with soapy water and social distancing while field operations should be strictly followed. While eating food during field work, keep a distance of at least 5-6 feet from one person to another. Keep food utensils separately and after use clean them thoroughly with soapy water. Keep sufficient quantity of water and soap available in the field during field operations.