 105 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring – Monitor regular conduct of SAC meetings and implementation of its recommendations by the KVKs – Periodical visits by self and concerned experts to give required guidance and advice. – Plan and implement need based capacity development programmes for KVK staff, extension personnel and farmers. – Facilitate preparation of Annual Action Plan, periodically review the progress of KVKs and ensure continuous flow of feedback and reporting to ICAR. – Ensure establishment of infrastructure, its proper utilization and maintenance at KVKs. – Monitor instructional farms of the KVKs for the demonstration of latest technologies and production of technological products viz. seeds, planting material, livestock, fingerlings and bio-products. – Ensure execution of Annual Action Plan through effective technical backstopping and field level monitoring. – Impact evaluation and assessment study at field level to be conducted on new technologies at State Level. (c) Quarterly review of KVKs: It is to be done by Vice-Chancellors of respective SAUs to monitor the technical, administrative, financial and developmental activities of KVKs in University jurisdiction. (d) Local monitoring committee: For effective monitoring of mandated activities of KVKs, a local monitoring committee at University level consisting of Nodal Officer/Associate Director of Extension Education from the SAUs, Zonal Project Director/his or her representative and a Chief Scientist-cum-Head from the adjoining State of the zone may be constituted by Director of Extension Education of concerned SAU/CAU. (e) Modalities for Technological Backstopping: The concerned host institutions have to ensure technical backstopping through Directors of Extension of Agricultural Universities and Directors of ICAR institutes. They may also seek the support of ZPDs in ensuring proper technological backstopping even if it is required from other institutions/organization. ●Periodical visits of technical experts from the University/ICAR Institute to KVKs irrespective of the host organizations essentially should be organized for providing guidance and advice at different stages of technological interventions. ●Capacity development activities should be organized in identified areas for KVK staff at the Universities, ICAR Institutes and other specialized organizations. ●Facilitating KVKs to get latest technologies from NARS for production of technological inputs as well as carrying out interventions for the benefit of farmers. ●Publication and updating of district-specific technology inventory. ●Ensure the participation of Chief Scientist-cum-Head of all the KVKs in ZAREC as members. ●Facilitate KVKs in having interface and convergence with different stakeholders in the district. 106 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 8.