 Profenofos dissipation in agricultural plot and transfer to groundwaters Profenofos concentrations in the soil of the agricultural plot were monitored during a beetroot growing season from the day before pro­ fenofos application (–1 day, dose of 240 mg.m-²) up to day 34 post- application. Profenofos concentrations in the plot soil increased imme­ diately following the application, rising from 0.1 to 375 µg.kgwet soil −1 (t = 0 days) (Fig. 5). Assuming a topsoil sampling layer of 10 cm thick and a soil density of 1.4 g.cm−3, the initial profenofos stock in the topsoil was estimated at 78 mg.m-², approximately three times lower than the application dose reported by the farmer. This observation aligns with previous studies, which reported only 33 % recovery of profenofos in the upper 10 cm of soil column within 3 h post-application [58]. Several factors could ac­ count for the reduced recovery rate of profenofos, including (i) un­ certainties in the preparation of commercial formulation by local farmers, (ii) volatilisation from soil surfaces, and (iii) substantial drift and variability from the manual spraying practices. Post-application, profenofos concentrations in the soil decreased to 0.5 ± 0.1 µg.kg−1 by 34 days. The dissipation kinetics (T1/2 = 1.1 ± 0.6 d, assuming a first order process) were consistent with those observed in laboratory degradation experiments. Due to the rapid dissipation, δ13C measurements were only feasible during the initial three sampling pe­ riods (t = 0, t = 1 and t = 3 d). As expected, the δ13C value measured immediately after application (t = 0; δ13C = − 23.5 ± 0.3 ‰) was not significantly different from that of the applied profenofos formulation (− 23.8 ± 0.3 ‰; ROCKET 44). Over time, isotope fractionation was observed, with δ13C = − 23.2 ± 0.3 ‰ after 1 day, and δ13C = − 21.0 ± 0.3 ‰ after 3 days, indicating significant in situ profenofos degradation. Previous experiment (Fig. 4) demonstrated that both photolysis and biodegradation can result in isotopic fractionation. The Δδ13C = 2.4 ‰ observed three days post-application suggests that either processes could be involved. However, the presence of BCP and TP2 TPs, which were associated with profenofos biodegradation, and the absence of the key photolysis degradation product TP3 (Fig. 3), strongly suggest that biodegradation was the primary dissipation processes in the field plot experiment. This conclusion aligns with results from the soil laboratory experiments, suggesting that these observations may be cautiously extrapolated to field conditions. Assuming that biodegradation was the dominant dissipation process in the soil experiment, involving bond cleavage and significant isotope fractionation, the amount of profenofos degradation in the topsoil (F, Eq. (3)) was estimated from the εCdegradation value (− 0.9 ± 0.4, Table 1) and the observed changes of δ13C in the field plot.