 leaves disease TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 75 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 76 Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Drone Device Captures images of paddy leaves Deep Learning algorithm Software The model is trained by a dataset and prepared to identify the disease. Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Field to cloud LPWAN - LoRaWAN Drone to cloud LAN/ WAN - 4G/ WiFi ___________________ Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description Drone Device Captures images of paddy leaves Deep Learning algorithm | Software The model is trained by a dataset and prepared to identify the disease. Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Field to cloud LPWAN - LoRaWAN Drone to cloud LAN/ WAN - 4G/ WiFi TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 76 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 77 9.2. Use cases: IoT based Farmland Surveillance System with Disease Detection in Paddy Crops Source: 1. Dr. Vydeki D, VIT Chennai, India 2. Dr. Jagannath M, VIT Chennai, India 3. Dr. S Ramesh, School of Engineering, SIMTS Chennai, India Part A 1. Introduction The survival of human beings is dependent on the proper productivity of agriculture. The paddy plant is considered as a major planting crop in improving the economical level of our country. It is a known fact that a number of diseases could reduce the yield level of the paddy crop. The main culprits behind this disease's prevalence on the paddy crop include bacteria, fungus, viruses, and some dangerous insects. The illnesses that damage rice crops in their early stages have an impact on the entire stage of crop cultivation. Farmers have been performing manual disease detection since the beginning of agriculture. To manually identify crop diseases, naked eye inspection is frequently used. This outdated method typically results in mistakes and requires a great deal of effort to classify the diseases. One of the newer methods for identifying and categorising the various types of diseases is image processing, which solves the problems with manual disease identification. The identification and classification of plant illnesses, the differentiation of specific weeds, and disease forecasting are only a few of the problems that image processing technique addresses in crop management. The objective of the use case is to provide an alternative solution to naked-eye observation of disease in paddy crops. This use case employs an image processing technique for identifying and classifying the different types of diseases using machine learning. 2.