 They should be checked for secondary infection during netting and if found they should be given prophylaxis with potassium permanganate solution (5 ppm). Two or three months prior the spawning period, water exchange should be done in the brood fish ponds. The periodic examination should be done to check the maturity status of brooders. Due care should be taken to avoid any parasitic infection or any other diseases. The surfacing of brood fish during cloudy weather is usually observed which is mainly due to depletion in level of oxygen. To overcome this it is advised to aerate the water surface. Feed management is equally important for getting healthy brood fish. In spite of the natural food like plankton, the brood fishes required to be fed adequately with supplementary feed, @ 1-2% of the body weight. CIFABROODTM a carp broodstock diet having 30-31% protein proved to be very good as brood fish diet for carp. Otherwise, also traditional feed or commercial pelleted feed may be given to the brood fishes. Over feeding may lead to fat deposition in the body affecting maturity adversely. With good scientific husbandry practices fishes attain maturity before onset of monsoon, which can be checked physically by free oozing of milt in male with gentle pressure and bulging belly in case of female. Hatchery management during spawning/ fish breeding Brood fishes transportation from the broodstock pond to hatchery is very important. They should be transported in a stress free condition. Canvass carry bags with water may be used for this purpose. After reaching the hatchery, fishes should be allowed to acclimatize in the spawning pool for 15-20 min in a showering condition. As per their body weight and species hormone injection may be applies preferably by intra-peritoneal route (Fig. 2). Over dose may lead to plugging of the female brooder. Critical water quality parameters that hatchery managers should look for on regular basis in his hatchery are as below: Water source Water source should be pollution free. Water should be filtered before entering the hatching pools. Temperature Ideal temperature for carp breeding is 28-320C. Beyond 350C may affect breeding response. Oxygen Dissolved oxygen level in the hatchery pond water should be more than 4.0 ppm. Oxygen level below 2 ppm may lead to mass mortality of hatchlings. Total alkalinity Total Alkalinity should be less than 100. Alkalinity above 100 ppm affects the hatching process negatively. Ideal alkalinity range is 60-80. Further following technical operations in the hatchery may be taken care by the hatchery managers for improving survival of seed. • Egg collection should be done on a water cushion in the collection Fig. 1. Spawning and hatching pool for breeding Fig. 2. Broodstock of Jayanti rohu Indian Farming November 2020 29 chamber.