 Another important category of food crop is pulses dominated by chickpea. These are the important source of plant protein for most Indians. The oilseeds that provide edible oil is another important group of crops. Amongst the 9 oilseed crops, soybean, rapeseed and mustard and groundnut are the important ones. The food and non-food crops that are used by industries to process and produce finished products include sugarcane, cotton, jute, mesta, tobacco, tea, etc. Tomato, onion and potato (TOP); and other green vegetables such as brinjal, okra and squashes as well as fruits such as mango, banana, mandarin orange, papaya and melons are non-staple crops. Various spices such as chilies, turmeric and ginger are cultivated for domestic as well export purposes with a long history and acknowledgement worldwide. Mahatama Gandhi with Pt. Madan Mohan Malaviya at NDRI, Bangalore Indian Agriculture after Independence 6 Animal husbandry is an integral part of India’s agricultural system. Animal genetic resources are nation’s traditional strength and provide a good option to manage agriculture sector in more profitable and sustainable manner. India has the largest bovine population of the world. Mixed farming of crops and livestock is the predominant farming system in India. Total livestock population is 536 million in India with 36% constituted by cattle and 20% by buffaloes. Total milk production in India was 210 Mt in the year 2021-22 with per capita milk availability of nearly 400 g day-1. The major portion of the milk produced in India is contributed by small and marginal farmers. ICAR has characterized the livestock population of India in their natural home tracts and registered 197 breeds. This includes 50 breeds of cattle, 17 breeds of buffaloes, 34 breeds of goats, 44 breeds of sheep, 9 breeds of camel, 7 breeds of horses, 19 breeds of chicken and 3 breeds of dog. Fishing is practiced along the entire length of India’s coastline and in the, reservoirs and lakes. The marine and inland fisheries are contributing production of 3.8 Mt and 1.3 Mt, respectively. Major marine fishes include sardine and mackerel whereas the freshwater catches are dominated by carps. Aquaculture of fish and shrimp is becoming increasingly significant, which at present contributes over 9.0 Mt. 3. Agricultural research in India Agriculture is possibly the oldest sector in the country to have research as its core segment. There are evidences of research and development in agriculture in the ancient as well medieval period of Indian history. A detailed account of such agricultural developments in crop husbandry, animal husbandry and natural resources management in the pre- independent India has been presented in chapters 2, 3 and 4, respectively of this book. Systematic research in the country started with the establishment of Imperial Council of Agricultural Research (1929) in Delhi, which is known today as Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR).