 Keywords: tail, animal, beri grass Hot mustard oil (150-200 g) is applied on animal's tail 2-3 times daily, for its cure. This ITK is followed in village Sundyaba of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: tail, mustard oil Akauwa milk is used for the treatment of cut in the animal's tail by the people of village Khata of district Bareily in Uttar Pradesh. To cure this ailment, 20- 30 g akauwa milk is used twice daily on the animal's tail. Keywords: tail, cut, animal, akauwa milk Sometimes tail of animal become hairless and starts reducing and becomes like a wood-stick, called pitundia (dagnala). Animal stops feeding and becomes weak. People of village Kantharia of Jhadol Tehsil of district Udaipur in Rajasthan adopt local treatment for this. About 100 ml mustard oil is boiled and tip of the animal's tail is dipped in this boiling oil. While doing this operation, animal is held tight to check its movement. The animal is cured with this treatment. Keywords: tail cancer, hairless, boiling mustard oil This practice is used by the people of village Khata of Rithuora block of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh for the treatment of animal's tail. In this practice 20 g garlic is fried in 100 g mustard oil and the paste is applied twice or thrice daily on the cut place of the animal. Keywords: tail, garlic, mustard oil Shri Tota Ram. S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, and Shri Nanhe Lai, Devchara dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Ramauttar, S/o Shri Gargsen, Khata, Rithoura. dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Trilok, S/o Shri Kaloo ji Prajapati, Kantharia, Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri Lalta Prasad, S/o Shri Kharagsen, Khata, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3247 Treatment of z.eo (lice) in animal with turmeric and mustard oil 3248 Treatment of zeo (lice) in animal by red chili and mustard oil 3249 Eradication of lice with neem (Azadirachta indica) oil 3250 Control of cattle lice by using Aloe vera plant 3252 Treatment of lice with rohani (Mallotus philippensis) flowers and mustard oil 3253 Kaitha for eradicating ticks from cowsheds For the treatment of zeo in animals, 100 g turmeric powder and 250 g mustard oil are mixed properly and applied on the zeo place of the animal. The zeo are dead within a week. This ITK is followed in village Nitoie of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: z.eo, turmeric, mustard oil A paste is prepared by mixing 25 g red chilli and lOOg mustard oil and this paste is applied on animal body. After 3 hours bath is given to the animal. All types of zeo in animal body are cured. This ITK is practised in Gotia village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: z.