 Plants exhibit significant reflectance in the 800 to 1400 nm range, while soil reflectance is minimal. NIR shoot imaging systems are employed to gauge water content and distribution within plants, as well as leaf thickness and leaf area index. Additionally, NIR root imaging systems are utilized to phenotype root soil moisture extraction patterns and root growth. Visual-Near Infrared (VNIR) and Short-wave Infrared (SWIR) hyperspectral imaging systems: These systems capture spectral reflectance at nanometer resolution using VIS-NIR (400–1000 nm) and SWIR (1000–2500 nm) cameras. Various spectral indices are available to assess parameters such as chlorophyll content, relative water content, nutrient status, chemical composition, plant health, photochemical reflectance index, and genotype barcoding. The automated weighing and watering stations will measure pot weights before and after watering to simulate stresses like drought, waterlogging, or nutrient Control Control Drought Drought Near-infrared (NIR) imaging Hyperspectral imaging Indian Horticulture 84 using RGB, Lab, and HSI colour spaces, revealing minor QTLs not detected by qualitative methods. Similarly, image-based analysis of strawberry fruit shape identified two QTLs related to the length-to-width ratio, while sweet potato shape features, like roundness and curvature, were used to predict marketability with 84.59% accuracy. In the food industry, where expert assessment is slow, image-based phenotyping provides rapid, reliable evaluations, such as quantifying apple slice browning and distinguishing between varieties. Colour, size, and texture are key indicators of maturity and ripening, with image analysis used to estimate these stages in fruits like plum and banana, significantly affecting market value. Hyperspectral imaging has also been explored for assessing these attributes in horticultural crops. Now- a-days, image-based fruit detection and counting and subsequent yield prediction is an emerging area and has been done using RGB sensors in apple, banana, grape etc. Measurement of physiological traits: Physiological traits, such as photosynthesis and transpiration, reflect plant processes and indicate how plants function under various environmental conditions, responding to stresses and growth stages. These traits are measured using sensors like RGB, ChlF, multispectral/hyperspectral, and thermal imaging. Postharvest physiology in horticultural crops focuses on their responses during storage, handling, and processing, impacting ripening, shelf-life, and overall quality. The quality and shelf-life of horticultural crops are significantly influenced by storage and handling conditions. High-throughput postharvest phenotyping is essential for quickly and accurately assessing ripening, shelf-life, quality, safety, and biochemical content, enabling timely decisions to minimize economic losses.