 Instead of the aerators and chemicals, Background and Overview of Technology Chapter 1 JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology 2 conventionally used in STPs, the JalopcharTM technology harnesses the pollutant sequestring potential of the hyper-accumulative emergent wetland plants such as Typha latifolia, Arundo donax, Phragmites karka, Acorous calamus, Vetiver zizinoids, etc and the native micro-organisms. The effectiveness of JalopcharTM technology has been validated through its wide scale operationalization as 2.2 million litres per day capacity large community scale sewage treatment facility; 50,000 litres per day capacity combo rainwater harvesting and wastewater treatment facility and 1,500 litres per day capacity rural household facility at the IARI experimental farm along with a 75,000 litres per day capacity rural sewage treatment facility at Pandit Deen Dayal Upadhyay village in Farah, Mathura; 50,000 litres per day capacity sewage treatment facility at All India Women’s Conference, New Delhi; 1,00,000 litres per day capacity sewage treatment facility at residential boarding schools under Jawahar Navodaya Vidyalaya at Kansiram Nagar, U.P. and at Palwal, Haryana and 1,00,000 litres per day capacity sewage treatment facility at ICAR- CAZRI, Jodhpur, Rajasthan. The JalopcharTM technology has demonstrated exceptional efficiencies w.r.t. BOD (78 to 88%), turbidity and pathogen load (90 to 99%) as well as nitrate and phosphate reduction (30 to 57%). Unlike conventional STPs, it could also demonstrate exceptional metal reduction efficiencies (57 to 100%), thereby making the so-treated wastewaters completely safe for agriculture / aquaculture. The JalopcharTM technology is associated with about 80-85% lower capital expenditure demand than conventional wastewater treatment technologies as it requires just R50 to 65 lakhs for 1 Million litre /day (MLD) capacity facility in comparison to R4 Crore or more per 1-MLD required by the conventional wastewater treatment technologies. Further it has extremely low (i.e. maximum R0.60 per kilolitre, KL) operational expenditure (OPEX) demand in comparison to the conventional wastewater treatment technologies generally associated with R20 or more per KL of OPEX. The JalopcharTM technology is also atleast 1500 times more sustainable and causes atleast 33 times lesser environmental stress than the conventional sewage treatment technologies (STPs).