 After two to three years the area is abandoned for regrowth and a new site is selected to repeat the process. Earlier this system was good but now due to increase in both the population and the effective area under this farming syatem, it is considered to be hazardous because it is leading to resource degra-dation and ecological imbalance due to defforestation, increase of soil erosion and silting of reservoirs, which further lead to floods. Various research institutes of ICAR, Government of India and State Governments of North-eastern parts are recommend-ing agro-horti-silvipastural system as an alternative to shifting cultivation. Yet this system forms an integral part of the socio-cultural fabric of triabal life of North-eastern parts (Hills of North East India). Verma (1998) 31 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 60 Sesame sown after summer crop yields more After the harvest of pearl millet (Pennisetum typhoides) in summer, it is ideal to sow sesame (Sesamum indicum) during the monsoon. This increases the productivity of the crop. Sesame is sown after the harvest of pearl millet particularly when the chances of rainfall are less. The residues of pearl millet (like the stem) after harvesting the heads are incoporated in soil by ploughing. These residues provide ample organic manure for the sesame crop, thus resulting in a better yield. Most of the farmers in Jhanda village follow this practice (Kheda, Gujarat). Patel (1999d) 61 Increasing productivity and income through mixed cropping Farmers cultivate sorghum (Sorghum vulgare) in one row, while cultivating mustard to increase the productivity of the crop. While, cultivating potato, particularly during the end of the season fennel (Foeniculum vulgare) is also grown. Growing fennel gives the farmers a profit of Rs 50,000/ ha (Uttar Pradesh). Ram Pratap and Rajput (1999) 62 Cattle grazing before heading for higher yield of fingermillet Cattle are allowed to graze the top of finger millet crop before heading to enhance earhead size as well as grain filling and to control leaf disease. It also reduces evapotranspiration and induces heading (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 63 Risk distribution farming under rainfed conditions In order to minimize risk, the farmers of Haryana, give equal importance for growing mustard and chickpea during rabi season. The frost in December- January may damage mustard but not chickpea. On the otherhand the incidence of terminal drought may heavily reduce the yield of long duration crop of chickpea without having much effect on mustard. In Vidharba region of Maharashtra, the farmers distribute the cultivated area under greengram, sorghum and cotton to distribute the risk among various crops. Heavy rainfall incidence during July and August may completely destroy the greengram without much effect on sorghum.