 Try to improve the micro-environment around the animals for optimum performance by straw bedding, use of curtains and other locally available heating arrangements. Ensure washing of udder of milch animals with a mild disinfectant solution (e.g., Potassium permanganate) before and after milking to prevent mastitis and for clean milk production. Separate advanced pregnant animals, manage them in calving pans with adequate bedding and heating arrangement to avoid undue losses due to cold exposure/ hypothermia of newly born calves Get assistance of Veterinarian in case of dystocia/difficult birth. Dip the navel cord of calf in tincture iodine to avoid joint ill/navel ill etc Ensure colostrum feeding to newly born calves. In the event of unavailability of colostrum, fostering should be done. Artificial colostrum may also be an option which can be prepared by mixing an egg, half litre of fresh warm water, half litre of whole milk, one teaspoonful of castor oil and similar amount of cord liver oil. Provide creep ration to calves after 2 weeks of birth Manage calves in clean well bedded draft free sheds with optimum ventilation Follow standard nutritional regimes for different physiological stages and categories of animals on weight basis or following schedule may be adopted for optimum production Category Concentrates Green/Dry fodder Cow (15litre milk/day) 6.0 Kg Adlib*./ (8 to 10 kg) Pregnant cow 6.0 Kg +0.5 kg -do- ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 67 Cows should be fed 250 g -500 g of concentrate in addition to normal ration (dry matter @ 3% of body weight + additional concentrate @ 1 kg/3kg of Milk production= 6 kg for 15 litre). Normally 3 kg of concentrates along with 8 to 10 kgs of dry fodder is sufficient to meet the maintenance requirements and 5 kg milk production Silage 15 to 16 kg, turnips 4 to 5 kg along with 4 kg concentrate shall meet the requirements of 10 to 12 kgs of milk production Provide 1 to 1.5 ks of concentrates to calves upto 1 year of age along with 5 to 7 kg silage and 2 to 3 kgs hay Provide turnips and other root crops during the period Dry fodder and silage if available can suffice the requirements of the animals along with recommended quantities of concentrates. UMMB should be provided to animals whose only source of fodder is paddy straw for better performance Follow routine management practices viza viz timely heat detection, timely AI, dosing, and vaccination, etc. Undertake dosing and vaccination in consultation with the local veterinarians. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 68 LAdAKH Vegetable No crop is possible in open field conditions in winters in Ladakh UT. Therefore, crops should be grown under protected structures like 3-side walled greenhouses, trenches, and hi-tech greenhouses.