 The Tuber Crops Kalyani Centre opened a display stall of the produce in Eastern Zone Agricultural Fair organised by BCKV during 30th January to 2nd February 2006.The seed corm of Bidhan Kusum (BCA‐1) was distributed to KVK, Ramkrishna Ashram, Nimpith, W.B., and others for wide coverage of EFY. Jorhat • Radio talk on “Improved cultivation practices on Colocasia and greater yam” in Assamese broadcasted by AIR, Dibrugarh (Assam), on 19th December, 2004 and participated in phone‐in‐ line Programme, AIR, Dibrugrah, Assam, on 18th August, 2004. were made by the Scientists of the centre to popularize tuber crops. Faizabad • AICRPTC, Faizabad arranged a tuber crops exhibition stall in the Gauri Ganj Kisan Mela in 2005 and Sri. Rahul Gandhi, Honourable Member of Parliament visited .A group of Journalist trainees from Lucknow visited the AICRPTC centre at Faizabad. Coimbatore • Thirteen farmers’meetings were conducted at Yethapur in Salem of Tamilnadu in which a total of 2153 farmers participated. Three farmers’ day were conducted at TCRS, Yethapur, Thammapatti, Ayothiapattinam in which a total of 1037 farmers participated. AIR messages were broadcasted weekly. Newsletters were published monthly and Zonal workshops were www.icar.org.in 19 2002‐2007 conducted monthly. In addition to these, Scientists imparted trainings to KVK farmers on tuber crops cultivation and information on tuber crops cultivation was disseminated through Kissan call centre. Rajendranagar • Fifty training programmes on the latest technology of tuber crops were imparted to the officers of Dept of Agriculture and Horticulture and 25 training programmes to farmers. Ten press notes were released on package of practices of tuber crops. Fourteen radio talks and 12 TV programmes were broadcasted on package of practices of tuber crops. The Scientists participated in 9 Kisan Melas. Three leaflets were published in Telugu. Farmers from Maharashtra, Orissa and different parts of AP visited the Centre. 3.2.F. Group meeting and farmers’ day • The sixth group meeting of the project was held at the College of Agriculture and Research Station (IGAU),Jagdalpur during 3‐5 Oct 2001. The entries RS‐III‐3 and 56‐2 were recommended for release in Kerala based on its performance. A farmers day was also organized on the 5th Oct,2001 along with group meeting. • The VII group meeting of AICRPTC was held during 24‐25 May, 2004 at the Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Thiruvananthapuram. Four sweet potato entries viz., 90/704 form Ranchi, 90/101 from Kalyani, IB‐90‐15‐9 from Raipur and NDSP‐10 from Faizabad ; four taro entries viz., Kadma local from Ranchi, BCC‐1 from Kalyani, Ahina Katchu from Jorhat and BK Col‐2 from Raipur were recommended for release in their respective states.