the Board in the rank of ADG, with adequate staff, to execute the above responsibility should be established. The Board will be supported with necessary infrastructure including scientific, technical, financial and administrative staff. Notice of Meetings 53 All the meetings of the Accreditation Board shall be called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Member- Secretary of the Board. Quorum 54 Seven members of the Accreditation Board shall constitute the quorum for any meeting of the Board. Frequency of Meetings 55 The proceedings of the Accreditation Board shall be regulated mutatis mutandis in accordance with the provisions of Rules 42, 43 (ii) and 45. The meeting shall be called at least once in six months. Action on Proceedings 56 The proceedings of the Accreditation Board including its views and recommendations on various matters considered by it, shall be placed before the next meeting of the Governing Body for information and for issue of such directions as it may deem proper. XI. SCIENTIFIC PANELS Constitution 57 The Governing Body shall constitute scientific panels for various disciplines, as also inter-disciplinary panels for the purpose of:- i) considering research schemes and projects, ii) advising the Governing Body on technical matters, and ill) drawing attention to gaps in the current research and training efforts. Joint Panels 58 The Governing Body may constitute either on cost sharing or cost-free basis Joint Panels with other scientific bodies like the Council of Scientific and Industrial Research, Indian Council of Medical Research, Indian Council of Social Sciences Research, etc. for one or more of the following purposes:- i) collaboration in research, ii) inter-disciplinary examination of research schemes and projects, iii) implementation of research schemes and project, and iv) co-ordination with various other scientific bodies and the University Grants Commission to avoid duplication and to bring about effective co-ordination in agricultural research. Action on the 59. The views, recommendations and reports of the scientific recommendations and Panels and Joint Panels on the various matters considered reports by them shall be placed before the Governing Body for information and for issue of such directions as it may deem proper. Xn. REGIONAL COMMITTEES Constitution 60. (a) The Governing Body shall constitute Regional Committees. The areas comprised in each re- 21 gion shall be determined by the Governing Body after talcing into account the agro-climatic and other relevant factors. *(b) The Director-General shall be the Chairman of these Regional Committees. He shall nominate a member of each Committee as Secretary of that Committee. (c) The membership of the Regional Committee shall be as under:- i) the members of the Society residing in that region. ii) Chairman of the Development Council of Councils constituted by the Department of Agriculture, Government of India, lo- cated in the region.