 The terms sustainable and intensification indicate desirable outcomes of more food and also improved environment simultaneously. Sustainable agricultural intensification components include socio-economic intensification, agro-ecological intensification and genetic intensification. Socio-economic Intensification involves a greater variety and range of farmers in the social and economic processes and of the institutions Dr P.V. Vara Prasad is a Professor of Crop Ecophysiology and a Director of Center for Sorghum Improvement in the Department of Agronomy at Kansas State University. His research mainly focuses on understanding responses of food grain crops with changing environments (temperature, water and climate change factors) and developing crop management strategies for the efficient use of inputs. 151 Climate Smart Agriculture on the farm, in the community and also across the regions and the nations. Adoption of new practices and techno- logies by farmers would only happen and persist if an appropriate enabling environment favours intensification of agriculture and its sustainability also. This would lead to income generation, entrepreneurship development and private sector engagement. Agro-ecological intensification includes building natural capital, precision agriculture and diversification. Natural capital (biophysical assets within natural environment delivering economic value through ecosystem services) can be conserved and enhanced through varied approaches — organic agriculture, water conservation and conservation agriculture. In precision agriculture, inputs whether nutrients, pesticides, seeds or water are used in a precise and strategic way to ensure their minimal use with minimal environmental impact. Genetic Intensification includes ‘conven- tional plant breeding,’ ‘biotechnology,’ and ‘livestock breeding’. Conventional and modern plant breeding can be through participatory plant breeding, improving seeds through hybridization or enhancing their nutritional properties with biofortification or creating resistance to pests and diseases. Sustainable agricultural intensification is the interaction between genotype, environment, management and social aspects. It is estimated that 163 million farms (29 per cent worldwide) all over the world are practicing SAI on 453 million hectares of agricultural land. Investments in innovations in the SAI in the Global South are extremely low and require attention to meet Sustainable Development Goals and climate targets of Paris agreement. Focus should be on systems approaches with broader one-health concept— earlier only humans and animals were included but now soil and plant health are also inclusive to this. Focus should be on the soil health because if the soil is healthy, it would produce healthy plants, leading to healthy animals and humans; ultimately ecosystem would be healthy.