 U SE of native plants for landscaping is a sustainable mode of landscaping. However, simply being native does not make one plant a candidate for landscaping purposes. Such plants should have attractive habits, and beautiful leaves/ flowers/fruits. Plants with edible parts like leaves/flowers/fruits add to the sustainability of landscaping by augmenting nutritional resources. Majority of the native plants are also renowned home remedies for various ailments thereby assisting in a holistic treatment for many health issues. Acceptance by pollinators is again an advantage of the natives intended for landscaping purposes. Majority of the native flora act as either sources of nectar, pollen or fruits and thus provide food for fauna, especially bees, butterflies and birds. Some native species have difficulty in home landscapes because the environment is very different from their natural growing conditions. Also, even with natives, it is important to find the right plant for each specific location in the landscape to be created. Conservation of native plants is also essential for the conservation of plant-specific wildlife like bees, butterflies and many birds. Many of the native flora also have suitable root systems that reduce soil erosion and hence this aspect of environmental protection is also taken care of with native plant landscaping. When considering the locations for native plant landscaping, we can think of public parks, botanical gardens, highway medians, road sides, airports, golf courses, public institutions and home gardens. ICAR-AICRP on Floriculture KAU Centre and the Department of Floriculture and Landscaping, College of Agriculture Vellanikkara has evaluated many native plants and the study has come out with many indigenous, endemic plants useful for sustainable landscaping. Discussed here are some of the plants and their landscape utility. Based on the growth habit, plants have been grouped for various landscaping purposes like ground covers, hedges and borders, specimen plants, bedding/ potted plants, etc. Ground covers A ground cover should be planted having good spread, attractive foliage and amenable to thorough pruning/ mowing periodically. Colourful flowers are an added attraction for the ground covers. Asysytasia gangetica L. The plant is a member of Acanthaceae family. Commonly known as creeping Foxglove or Ganges primrose, the plant is a perennial herb rooting at nodes. The flowers are produced in lax racemes in different colours brilliant yellow-green, greenish-white and purple. Average inflorescence length is 7.50 cm with an average of 8 flowers per inflorescence. The plant grows and flowers profusely in open or under partial shade. Flowering is seen almost throughout the year. The plant also attracts bees and butterflies and this pollinator activity is seen maximum during August to March. The flowers are considerably large with an average size of 4.50 × 3.25 cm.