 Sperm cryobanking as a conservation tool, can not only provide support to captive breeding technology in the propagation-assisted rehabilitation of the target species in its natural habitat but can also assist carp broodstock management for quality seed production and sustainable fisheries and aquaculture enhancement. This report presents efforts and experiences of ICAR-NBFGR, Lucknow in customization of the sperm cryopreservation technique, primarily developed for ex-situ conservation, for upscaled fertilization through field validation, demonstrations, and capacity development of stakeholders in 11 states of the country. Keywords: Aquaculture, Broodstock, Carp, Cryobanking, Seed Indian Farming 73 (11): 21-24; November 2023 T HE commercial freshwater aquaculture sector of the country is mainly dominated by carp which includes Indian major carp (IMC) and exotic carp. Seed is the most important input and it is mostly supplied by hatcheries of the private and public sectors. As per production statistics of FAO 2022, Indian major carps viz. catla (Catla catla), rohu (Labeo rohita), and mrigal (Cirrhinus mrigala) contribute approximately 5.44 million tonnes to the total fish production of the country. It is reported that in India the losses due to the inbreeding of fish are quite significant, however, it is difficult to quantify it in monetary terms. Inbreeding in carp hatcheries of the country is affecting seed quality as genetic management of brooders is not followed due to the lack of awareness and resources. The same stock of brooders is used repeatedly for seed production over many generations which leads to homozygosity and reduced genetic vigour. In hatcheries, a smaller number of males are maintained to save rearing space, and the same set of males is used repeatedly in many breeding sets. It results in producing paternal half-sibs and when these half-sibs are mated, the rate of inbreeding per generation increases. It affects the quality of the seed produced and these inbred seeds do not perform to their full potential on the grow- out farm. Recently, Govt. of India has been implementing National river ranching under PMMSY for which the production of quality seed is an important input. Thus, to maintain the quality of fish seed, it is crucial to follow a good brood husbandry practice and broodstock should be replenished at regular intervals. However, replenishment of brooders is not an easy task as it involves transportation of stock from far distance which might result in significant mortalities and will involve higher costs. Therefore, an alternate approach could be to use cryopreserved sperm of unrelated healthy stock to establish a cryobank and facilitate exchange between hatcheries for quality seed production. Sperm cryopreservation technology: A working strategy for field validation and upscaling Sperm cryopreservation technology has revolutionized the animal breeding program with big industry.