, to reduce the initial costs thereby increasing profits to the farmers. Organizing proper trainings, forming of FPOs of farmers, introduction of markets can help Northeast farmers in improving financial status and sustainability. For further interaction, please write to: 1Executive Director, National Committee on Precision Agriculture & Horticulture (NCPAH) under MoA & FW, New Delhi Email: ncpath@ncpathindia.co.com Disclaimer Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. November–December 2023 67 Spices for Sustainable Development in Northeast Region The spice crops, which form a unique segment within the agricultural sector due to its high income generation potential and export orientation, is an important part of the agrarian economy of the Northeast Region (NER). A wide variety of spice crops, both indigenous and exotic, are cultivated in diverse agro-climatic conditions across the eight states of the NER. Spices play an important role in the economy and culture of the region. They are a major source of income for farmers and provide employment to a large number of people in the region. Spices are also an essential part of the Northeastern cuisine, adding their unique flavour and aroma to dishes. I NDIA is widely regarded as the land of spices and the country is the largest producer, consumer and exporter of spice commodities. The Northeastern Region of India (NER), with its unique geographical and socio-economic features is a major source of several spices of commercial importance. The agricultural diversity of the region is well documented and supports a wide variety of crops. The climate in NER varies from near tropical in the plains of Assam, Tripura and south Mizoram to near alpine in northern Sikkim and Arunachal Pradesh. Status of spice production in NER Spices in the NER are widely recognized as crops with the potential to enhance farm business income of primary producers. About 5% of the area under spice crops in India is located 2,32,087 ha, in across the states of NER during 2020-21.