 Despite the potential of digital viticulture, challenges such as high initial costs, technical expertise gaps, data management, and privacy concerns need to be addressed for widespread adoption. Enhanced infrastructure, farmer training, and localized technology solutions are essential to realizing the full benefits of digital viticulture in India. D IGITAL viticulture can be described as the integration of digital tools, technologies, and data- driven decision-making processes into grape farming. This approach uses artificial intelligence (AI), remote sensing, Internet of Things (IoT) and mobile applications. The key objectives of the digital viticulture are increasing the production efficiency by reducing cost of cultivation, minimizing environmental impact besides improving quality of the produce, sustaining productivity and yield. Current trends in digital viticulture include collection of sensor-based data for crop and weather monitoring, data analytics for assessment of vineyard health and possible risks, automation of vineyard operations (for example, monitoring, spraying, harvesting etc.). The key components of this system include: y IoT sensors for monitoring plant health, soil moisture, environmental temperature, relative humidity, rainfall, etc. y Drone and satellite imagery for high-resolution mapping. y Data analytics platforms which use machine learning to analyse the data received and provide insights into vineyard health, risk assessment and yield predictions for market intelligence, etc. y Decision support systems (DSS) developed based on above information in the form of mobile applications in simple language and user interface to guide grape growers for making informed and timely decisions. Technology Indian viticulture challenges Water scarcity: Grape cultivation is water-intensive, and Indian vineyards, particularly in Maharashtra and Karnataka where more than 90% of Indian grapes are commercially produced, face water shortages. This is despite the fact that vineyards are mostly under drip irrigation. Pest and disease problems: The fungal diseases, e.g., powdery mildew, downy mildew, anthracnose, and insect pests including thrips, mealybugs, etc. are the common threats that impact grape yields as well as quality. Some of these insect pests and diseases infest the vineyards after the veraison (berry softening) stage. To control them, farmers apply pesticides, which eventually causes food safety related trade issues on account of pesticide residues. Climate variability: Grape growth is sensitive to climatic changes, and erratic weather patterns due to climate change make vineyard management increasingly difficult. Untimely rainfall increases downy mildew incidences and rains at the time of harvest cause berry cracking leading to crop failures. In addition, hailstorms have also become a major impediment to grape cultivation in certain major grape growing regions of Nashik and Sangali districts of Maharashtra.