 Mahatma believed that cow can be saved without having to kill her off when she ceases to give the economic quantity of milk or when one becomes otherwise an uneconomic burden in following ways: 1) by the Hindus performing their duty towards the cow and her progeny: If they did so, our cattle would be the pride of India and the world. The contrary is the case today; 2) learning the science of cattle-breeding: Today there is perfect anarchy in this work; 3) replacing the present cruel method of castration by the humane method practiced in the West and 4) by thorough reform of the PINJRAPOLES (institutions for aged cows) of India, which are today, as a rule, managed ignorantly and without any plan by men who do not know their work. The excerpts from “And Gandhi Came Alive” by Megha Bajaj depict the vision of Gandhi for genetic improvement of cattle as it says, “Gandhi had always believed in scientific practicality. He had suggested to Manibhai Desai to take up cattle development to ensure a good supply of milk. Although India had the largest cattle population in the world, it had one of the lowest 29 milk yields; from an economic point of view the average Indian cow was a liability to its owner. Good milk-yielding cows, he reasoned, could increase both the nutrition and the income of the local farmers. In 1948, he started a herd using the local Gir breed. The herd made an excellent progress that in 1953; the then Bombay state donated eight top quality heifers, one bull calf and one adult bull for the herd’s further improvement. From 1957 through 1962, the Urulikanchan Ashram’s cows captured first and second prizes for highest milk yield in the country. Manibhai Desai later founded the Bharatiya Agro-Industries Foundation (BAIF), which was registered as a Public Trust on August 22, 1967. 3. Gandhian Principles for Milk Co-operative The Gosanwardhan Goras Bhandar, the milk cooperative in Wardha city started by Mahatma Gandhi in 1931, has proved that Gandhiji’s guidelines on how to run the operations helped in running the cooperative successfully. The Gosanwardhan Goras Bhandar is still continuing on the principles of Gandhiji. It offers a robust rate of Rs 36 per litre of milk to dairy farmers. The milk cooperative has formed 15 societies comprising about 1,000 farmers who rear cows. On average, 12,000-13,000 litres of cow milk is collected daily from farmers at a procurement price of Rs. 36 L-1. The milk brought by farmers is never rejected and purchase rate is constant. Operations at the dairy are fully manual, with zero use of machinery. The board of directors believes strongly in the Mahatma’s idea of production by masses and not production for masses. The cooperative doesn’t process milk but provides fresh milk to consumers in Wardha. It prepares goruspak (a sweet cake), ghee, peda, basundi, curd and paneer by order. Here, again, everything is manual, and a furnace, instead of gas stoves, is used for cooking.