 Earth Surf. Process. Landforms 41, 2007– 2023, https://doi.org/10.1002/esp.3965 Singh J and Mukherjee SP (1971) Qualitative composition of soil micro-orthropods in some fields of Varanasi (India). Oriental Insects 5(4): 487-494. Srinivasarao Ch, Gopinath KA, Prasad JVNS, Prasannakumar and Singh AK (2016) Climate Resilient Villages for Sustainable Food Security in Tropical India: Concept, Process, Technologies, Institutions, and Impacts. Adv Agron 140: 101-214. Srinivasarao Ch, Rao KV, Gopinath KA, Prasad YG, Arunachalam A, Ramana DBV, Ravindra Chary G, Gangaiah B, Venkateswarlu B and Mohapatra T (2020) Agriculture contingency plans for managing weather aberrations and extreme climatic events: Development, implementation and impacts in India. Adv Agron 159:35-91. ***** Farming on reclaimed soil in eastern ghats 282 12 Chapter Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India SN Jha1, KK Singh1, CR Mehta2, Nachiket Kotwaliwale3, Sujata Saxena4, DB Shakyawar5 and KK Sharma6 1Agricultural Engineering Division, ICAR, New Delhi 2ICAR-Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 3ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering & Technology, Ludhiana, Punjab 4ICAR-Central Institute of Research on Cotton Technology, Mumbai, Maharashtra 5ICAR-National Institute of Natural Fibre Engineering & Technology, Kolkata, West Bengal 6ICAR-Indian Institute of Natural Resins & Gums, Ranchi, Jharkhand Summary Agricultural development in India is the outcome of coordinated interplay of man-machine- material interface. While the food grains’ production touched the record high of 314.51 million tons (Mt) in 2022 with similar increase in other food and non-food commodities, we are encountering the simultaneous increase in input cost and degradation of natural resources with inefficient input utilization. With the changing economies at micro and macro level, the demand for food is diversifying towards better quality processed and raw foods. As the luxury of putting more area under cultivation has dried up, increasing the per unit land and labour productivity in agriculture in the realm of over 69% of the marginal farmers having less than one hectare land is the only option. The land holding is continuously declining and about 86% farmers are small and marginal. Farm mechanization also offers an opportunity to retain youth in agriculture by improving comfort as compared to that in the traditional farming, and enhancing the income. The demand for mechanization is consistently increasing and farmers, manufacturing industries with their network, government and NGOs are engaged in promoting appropriately mechanized agriculture. ICAR with its network of specialized institutions has actively been engaged in need-based research and development of mechanized tools, equipment, machinery for production and post-harvest operations in food, feed, fodder, fibre, natural resins and gums.