 In addition, leaves of mehandi fried in ghee are tied over dewlop with the help of cotton cloth. It is followed in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh since ages. Keywords: dewlop pain, talmakhana, palm tree bark, amarbel, mehandi leaves Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2575 Use of ashwagandha with dry chilli to cure jaharbad disease in animals For controlling jaharbad disease (swelling of a part of the body with fever) of animals, farmers use a mixture of ashwagandha bark and dry chilli. About 250 g bark of ashwagandha and 21 dry chillis (red) are crushed together. After this, it is smeared with 500 ml lukewarm water. This material is fed to the animals through bamboo sticks, 4 times a day, and it is continued over a week to get the desired results. About 70-80% problem is controlled by this practice. Keywords: ashwagandha, dry Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  chilli, jaharbad disease 2640 Use of the khutia chara leaves and fruits to cure jaharbad disease in animals Some times it is observed that muscles of animals grows big in size (swelling) causing fever to the animal. Farmers call it jaharbad. Due to this, animal do not take food materials. To overcome this problem, about 100 g leaves and 50 g fruits of khutia chara are collected from the wild areas and after crushing, it is fried with mustard oil to make a paste. The paste is smeared on the backbone of the animal thrice a day. The practice is continued till one week to get complete relief. It is in vogue in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh. It is an age- old practice. Keywords: khutia chara, jaharbad Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2645 Use of a mixture made from castor oil, geru soil, and black salt to cure langari disease in animals In winter season animals suffer from dewlop and thigh pain. Farmers call it langri disease. For cure, farmers take about 50 ml castor oil, 15 g geru soil, and 10 g black salt. Castor oil is heated and all the ingredients are mixed to it. When it is lukewarm, it is smeared over the legs at least 4-5 times a day. The practice is continued over 15 days to get complete relief. It is an age-old practice and is followed in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district in Madhya Pradesh. Keywords: castor oil, geru soil, black salt, langri disease Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004 2540 Use of pandri, sembal, thandu, kilangu for treatment of black quarter in animals The tubers of pandri, sembal, thandu, kilangu are boiled, and neem oil is mixed to it and fed orally to the affected animal. It is given at the initial stage of blackquarter.