 The ICAR institutes are working on the inactivated vaccine, the candidate virus has been identified and characterized and fully sequenced. 186 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series Key takeaways Strong surveillance is required for detecting viruses in animals, wildlife and birds. Understanding pathogenesis of SARS-Cov-2 is vital to develop therapeutics, vaccines and supportive care modalities in the treatment of COVID-19. 187 Health and Good Living THE COVID-19 PANDEMIC WHAT LIES AHEAD Jagdish Chander Suri India has the second highest number of documented cases in the world of COVID-19 at 3.15 crore and has the third highest number of documented deaths at 4.22 lakh. India has suffered from two devastating waves of COVID-19. Causes of the second wave were relaxation of COVID-19 precautions, opening of offices, markets, public transport, public gatherings and the arrival of the mutant strain 50 per cent more infectious and transmissible. And there has been a third wave. Coronavirus mutant variants have been of concern. As COVID-19 is an RNA virus and has a natural tendency to mutate. The more the virus spreads and replicates, the greater is the chance for mutations. India has set-up an Indian SARS-COV-2 (severe acute respiratory syndrome corona virus 2) genomics consortium in 20 December 2020 to detect emerging variants of COVID-19. Four variants of concern alpha, beta, gamma and delta have been identified To fully understand the spread and evolution of the SARS CoV-2 virus and to contain its future spread, sequencing and analysing genomic data of this novel corona virus would be required. The study of accumulated mutations in the Dr Jagdish Chander Suri is the Director and the Head of Department, Pulmonology, Critical Care & Sleep Medicine, Fortis, New Delhi. He is one of the pioneers for development of advanced laparoscopic surgery in India. He has performed more than 40,000 laparoscopic procedures and has one of the best clearance rates for laparoscopic common bile duct (CBD) surgery. 188 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series viral genomes would enable comparing of virus samples and viral lineages to understand if local outbreaks are caused by transmission of a single or multiple viral lineages. The Indian SARS-CoV-2 Genomics Consortium would help expand whole genome sequencing of SARS- CoV-2 virus across the nation, aiding in understanding of how the virus spreads and evolves. Any changes to the genetic code or mutations in the virus can be observed based on the analysis and sequencing of the samples done in the laboratories. The labs would identify variants of concern or variants of interests. This information would then be passed on to the Central Surveillance Unit of the Integrated Disease Surveillance Programme for establishing clinico-epidemiological correlation in coordination with the State Surveillance Officers.