 Keywords: fever, pahari grass, mustard oil, massage Shri Durga Prasad, S/o Shri Khem Kharan, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rajender Singh 'Bhole', Nawada (Band), Faridpur, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3424 Use of gosraine to control fever in animals 3425 Use of hen's egg, bhilaya and jaggery to control fever in animals People of village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using this treatment to cure fever in animals. Juice of 100-150 g leaves and fruits of gosraine is extracted after boiling them. This extract is given twice daily to the fever-affected animal. Keywords: fever, gosraine People of village Khai Khera in district Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh are using this treatment to cure fever in animals. One egg daily is fed to the animal, and after that a mixture of 1 bhilaya and jaggery Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai, Rajupur, Devchara, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Jaki Ahmed, S/o Shri Navi Ahmed, Khai Khera, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3426 Treatment of fever in animals with kasondhi (Casia occidentalis), bakena and ghundi (250 g) is given as a supplement orally twice a day. Keywords: fever, bhilaya, jaggery, hen's egg Cattle owners of village Rajpuri of district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh make paste of kasondhi (Cassia occidentalis), bakena and ghundi (50 g each), give it as a supplement to the animal, which controls fever. Keywords: kasondhi, bakena,ghundi, fever Shri Brij Lai, S/o Shri Kare Ram, Rajpuri (Nawada), Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Kasoundhi 3427 Use of sadia grass to cure fever in animals 3428 Treatment of fever in animals using smoke of chilli, hair, bran and mustard oil 3429 Treatment of fever in animals with a mixture of giloie, barmdandi and kanja This ITK is followed in village Rajupur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh, to cure fever in animals. For this, 200-250 g sadia grass is given orally, twice daily, to the animal. The fever is controlled within 1-2 days. Keywords: fever, sadia grass People of village Biehuria of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh burn red chilli, hair, bran and mustard oil, and its smoke is given twice daily to the infected animal. This practice is used to cure fever in animals. Keywords: fever, red chilli, hair, bran, mustard oil, smoke Giloie, barmdandi and kanja (each 50 g) are taken and juice is prepared. This juice mixture is given twice daily to the suffered animal. This treatment is Shri Meghnath, S/o Shri Maiku Lai, Rajupur Devchara, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Satya Prakash, S/o Shri Ajaypal Singh, Biehuria, Balia, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Maiku Lai, S/o Shri Nanku Lai, village Rajupur, P.O. Devchara, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No.