 Whilst irrigated agriculture is carried out mostly by private farms, government needs to intervene in making irrigation possible and sustainable, particularly, where systems are too large and complex for any one farm to manage on its own. The special role of government in irrigation is in providing public goods, protecting the environment, managing water resources, making and managing cross-boundary agreements, providing infrastructure too large for any one farm and making markets work by ensuring fair play in a fundamentally uncompetitive market for irrigation services. Governments face two challenges (i) implementation of a fair and efficient permit system for individual irrigation; and (ii) building up efficient and responsive institutions for multi-user irrigation. The scope and scale of irrigation projects can vary widely and involve a range of factors, from constructing key infrastructure Dr Steve Goss is Independent Consultant for World Bank and FAO. 217 Social Issues and Sports (such as primary and secondary canals) to on-farm agricultural development: this involves large-scale farmers on the one hand and small-scale farmers on the other. The private sector has often led innovation in increasing on-farm water- use efficiency but has been much less involved in bringing innovations to the management of public irrigation systems. While Public Private Partnerships (PPP) are quite well developed in water supply and sanitation, there are still relatively few successful examples in the irrigation sector. Introducing private sector knowledge, technology, capital, incentive structures and management approaches can potentially help improve efficiency and ensure more sustainable management of irrigation systems. PPP arrangements in irrigation can range from simple management contracts, where the private party takes responsibility for operation and maintenance in return for performance-based payment, to complex concession contracts where the private firm is responsible for designing, constructing, managing and in some cases financing irrigation infrastructure assets over a long period of time. A number of management models have been evolved over years, including private-public partnerships and hybrid models. The El Guerdane system in Morocco was the world’s first irrigation PPP, created to improve irrigation of a high-value citrus crop with an effective marketing system and high economic returns to water (investment was 48 per cent public, 44 per cent private and 8 per cent farmers). Another case was that the West Delta scheme in Egypt, which aimed to replace depleted aquifers with surface water (investment plan was 84 per cent public and 14 per cent private, but the irrigation area was unclearly defined at 25,000 – 38,000 ha, tendering was unsuccessful and the scheme was never implemented). A third example is the Canal de Navarra in Spain, it a large multi-purpose system with a water supply for 3,50,000 people and to irrigate 59,000 hectares.