 Bioassay of decoction was done at Regional Station of Central Tuber Crops Research Institute, Bhubaneshwar. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION During 2003-04 the overall fruit- and shoot-borer incidence was less compared with 2002-03 but Table 1. Efficacy of kochila mixed cowdung compost in controlling brinjal fruit and shoot borer for 2 years at OUAT Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE the trend was maintained in both the years (Table 1). The pooled results (Table 1) revealed that with the use of kochila enriched cowdung the incidence was reduced in shoot and fruit borer by 3.92 and 4.89% respectively. The effect of kochila compost was at par with the pesticide for fruits/plant, yield of fruits/plant, number of fruits/plant and total Table 2. Shoot infestation by fruit and shoot borer in brinjal at BCKV fruit yield. At BCKV, all the treatments effectively controlled shoot infestation by fruit and shoot borer (Table 2). On the basis of average percentage of damaged shoots, the chemical (5.48%). This treatment though differed significantly from the chemical treatment was at par with kochila compost. The ITK treatment of kochila cowdung compost although recorded much better and superior performance but was less effective than the pesticide application remaining almost at par. Hence, owing to the fact that the pesticides applied to the crop have residual effects on the fruits and responsible for health hazards, the ITK practice may be preferred. More over the yield per plant and yield per ha under ITK treatment and pesticide schedule treatment in both the years, it showed similar trends. Bioassay (in-vitro) of kochila-mixed cowdung compost and tobacco soaked water was carried out on knock-down and mortality of brinjal fruit and shoot borer at Regional Centre of CTCRI, Dumduma, Bhubaneswar, (Orissa), whose results are given in Table 3. Significant mortality was noticed in kochila mixed cowdung compost treatment when compared with control, but it was on par with Table 3. Bioassay of kochila-mixed cowdung compost and tobacco water on knock-down and mortality of brinjal fruit and shoot borer (Leucinodes orbonalis) Values followed by same letters are not significantly different at 5% level treatment was found to be the best (2.53% shoot damage) followed by kochila compost (3.5% shoot damage) which were statistically at par with each other. Tobacco-soaked water harboured relatively higher proportion of shoot damage tobacco-soaked water and chemical control. Results revealed that kochila-mixed with cowdung compost used by farmers through generations would be promising for controlling fruit and shoot borer in brinjal. Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS CONCLUSION Use of kochi la -mixed cowdung compost reduces the incidence of fruit and shoot borer in brinjal considerably, which also matches with the claim of the discloser.