 Hence, 30 cm diameter GI (20 gauge) mini pan evaporimeter with a height of 25 cm is recommended for use in irrigation scheduling purposes in Eastern India (Odisha). Strategies for improved water productivity in the canal commands: To increase the performance in terms of crop yield and water productivity, supply of canal water through farm-pond fed pipe conveyance based pressurized irrigation system was evaluated in the Nagpur minor of Puri main canal system, Odisha. Accordingly, pipe conveyance system alone; pipe conveyance system along with sprinkler irrigation provision; and pipe conveyance system along with drip irrigation provision were laid out in upper, middle and lower reach of the minor irrigation system, respectively. During four years study period of 2017–2021, overall pipe conveyance based pressurized irrigation system in all the three reaches of the canal system out-performed in terms of crop yield and water productivity in comparison to farmers’ practice of channel based conveyance irrigation system. However, among the three different irrigation practices, in the lower reach, pipe conveyance based drip irrigation system out- performed the other two irrigation systems while resulting in enhancement of crop yield of groundnut, pointed gourd and bitter gourd in the range of 34.5–47.2% and water Pipe conveyance based drip irrigation Pipe conveyance based sprinkler irrigation Mini pan evaporimeters (GI and PVC) of different sizes installed at IIWM ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 12 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY productivity of 137.1–151.8% with less irrigation water use of 40–45.4%, respectively, when compared with channel conveyance system. Channel conveyance system resulted in the crop yield with the range of 1.4–11.8 tonnes/ha, water productivity of 0.5–3.9 kg/m3 and total water use of 270–300 mm (total 3 irrigations ranging 90–100 mm each time). However, among the three irrigation systems, pipe conveyance based sprinkler irrigation system was preferred by the farming community as it required less effort for operation and maintenance. Land shaping in coastal waterlogged areas of Odisha: In coastal waterlogged areas of Odisha, crop diversification and intensification, land shaping options were attempted in lowland field to improve the income of farmers. Two land modification models, viz. raised bed and pond system with undisturbed land in between and alternate raised and furrow bed and aquaculture in an agroforestry system were evaluated. Alternate raised and furrow bed and aquaculture in an agroforestry system was more beneficial with higher net return of `1.68 lakh/ ha as compared to the raised bed and pond system with undisturbed land in between (` 0.5 lakh/ha). Soil salinity was reduced in raised bed areas during rainy season (up to 0.3 dS/m in September as compared to 3 dS/m in April– May) and helped in crop diversification.