 The mandate of the institute is to carry out research on gender issues in agriculture, gender-equitable agricultural policies/programmes and co-ordinate research activities of AICRP on Home Science. The significant research achievements are gender based information, databases, refined and developed technologies and models which will be immensely beneficial for women farmers as well as other stakeholders. Gender sensitization: A gender sensitization hub was designed to sensitize various stakeholders for engendering agricultural research and extension. Selected women friendly technologies (42) were identified. Assessment of gender sensitization level extension functionaries indicated that only 20–33% were highly sensitized. Accordingly, training programmes on ‘Gender sensitization of extension functionaries for engendering agriculture’ were organized wherein participants from 30 districts of Odisha had attended. The gender knowledge system (GKS) database on Agricultural Research Data Book (ARDB) 2019 This ARDB 2019 is the 22nd edition in this series. It has 10 sections, and provides information on natural resources, agricultural inputs, animal husbandry, dairying, fisheries, horticulture, production, productivity, agricultural engineering, export, import, place of India in world agriculture and human resources. It has 173 tables on different aspects of agriculture. The ARDB 2019 contains the latest information/data as available by the end of June 2019 in the country. The ARDB 2019 has some value additions like predicting the future year production of food grains, pictorial/graphical representations of data, depicting state-wise data and thematic maps using Geographical Information System (GIS). The ARDB 2019 also contains latest available information on emerging areas in agriculture sectors. SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 119 publications and technologies for women in agriculture was synchronized with the Krishi portal of ICAR; 314 publications of the Institute were updated on the portal. Priority districts were identified by calculating the Milk Production Priority Index (MPPI), for taking up technological interventions. Based on the MPPI, all the districts in Eastern states were ranked and reclassified into four priority classes. Out of 50 high priority districts for milk production in Eastern India, 23 are in Bihar, 21 in Eastern Uttar Pradesh, 5 in West Bengal and 1 in Odisha. Nutrition and livelihood enhancement of Tribal families: The data on cropping pattern, sources of livelihood, diet pattern of farm families were collected from Nabarangpur district (a zero hunger district) of Odisha; 58% of female were under mild to moderate level of chronic energy deficiency (CED) compared to 34.1% of male in the same age group.