 A panel of experts comprising an entomologist, plant pathologist and nematologist regularly visited the farmers’ fields to identify the major biotic stresses of bitter gourd crop and suggest eco-friendly IPM technology and sustainable management. IPM technology Low level of awareness of different ecofriendly IPM technologies among the farming community along with non-availability of many IPM components including cuelure traps for fruit flies readily were the major obstacles in the adoption of the environment friendly and effective bio management technologies. It is in this context and to address these issues, above mentioned two ICAR institutes implemented Area Wide Community Adoption (AWCA) IPM Programme in the aforesaid villages during 2014- Farmers’ driven improved IPM module brings a better return in bitter gourd Adaptable and eco-friendly pest management technology for bitter gourd was synthesized, validated, and promoted during 2014-17 at Varanasi, Mirzapur and Deoria districts of eastern Uttar Pradesh in a farmers’ led approach. The IPM technology synthesized for bitter gourd crop comprised seed treatment with Trichoderma viride @ 5g/kg of seed; need based spraying of Azadirachtin (0.03%) based neem insecticide @ 5 ml/l for Hadda beetle; installation of cue lure traps (MAT) for fruit flies @ 10/acre; raking of soil for exposing fruit fly pupae to sunlight and predatory fauna and removal of associated weeds, need based application of Bacillus thuringiensis @ 2 g/l against cucumber moth; Azadirachtin 0.03% @ 5 ml/l of water or NSKE 5% for whitefly; systemic fungicide Cymoxanil 8 WP+Mancozeb 64 WP @ 2.5 g/l against downy mildew were found very effective in reducing the incidence of pests and minimizing the yield losses. The IPM plots had lower number of fruit damage (9.60%), Cucumber moth larvae (9.53/plant) and Hadda beetle (2.76/plant) infestations as compared to non-IPM plots (19.10% fruit damage, 20.38 and 6.44, respectively). The adoption of IPM technology also resulted in reducing the number of chemical sprays to 7-10 from 21-25 in non-IPM fields in a season. Moreover, IPM farmers registered higher fruit yield accompanied with average higher net return and higher C:B ratio as compared to the non-IPM farmers. November–December 2021 11 17. Though initially reluctant to follow the IPM, several meetings of the progressive farmers/vegetable growers were therefore arranged and organized to convince, persuade and make them aware of the IPM programme, its socio-economic benefits and its implementation. The technology involved seed treatment with Trichoderma viride @ 5 g/kg of seed; need based spraying of neem insecticide (Azadirachtin 0.