82 lakh farmers including organic farmers, farm women and rural youths. yy The nutritional profiling of 50 biofortified varieties is the step towards nutritional and quality improvement of crops for providing the country early mover position. yy The regional crop plans for 5 export potential crops completed and nine processable varieties released (potato -1, tomato -3, onion – 3, grape -1, barley-1) to help import substitution of raw material for food processing industries. yy The high yielding varieties of oilseeds have been developed and notified to increase import substitution of edible oils. So far 24 new HYV of oilseeds (Rapessed & Mustard-8, safflower-2, sunflower-1, soybean-2, Linseed-3, sesame-1, groundnut -6 and castor-1) were released during the year. yy In order to accelerate efforts towards blue economy, installed over 800 rafts for demonstration and trained over 1200 stakeholders for promotion of seaweed farming. 22. Activities during Covid-19 period Covid-19 pandemic largely disrupted the traditional economic activities, education and trainings, and administrative functions besides causing loss of human lives. The impact on agriculture and allied sector was significant for need of critical inputs and marketing the perishable farm produces. ICAR addressed the challenges through designing alternative modules and contingencies to mitigate the impacts for the stakeholders. The important initiatives taken during the period are as under: yy Hon’ble Prime Minister dedicated 35 special trait varieties of field and horticultural crops. yy Granular mineral fertilizers were developed as an alternative to conventional P and K fertilizers. yy Disseminated National and State-specific advisories in regional languages benefitting large number of farmers through digital platforms. yy Implemented e-office to minimise the physical movement of files and receipts. yy COVID protocols were stringently observed in all research laboratories and farms. 37 DARE–ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2021-22 yy All the Agricultural Universities & Deemed Universities were shifted to online teaching mode. yy To help all the researchers and students, provided all e-resources of CeRA 24X7. yy Necessary alerts were issued to farmers and stakeholders across the country on the pre-cautions and safety measures while carrying out the time bound field/farm operations. yy Screened more than 5.0 lakh human samples for COVID 19, besides testing of wild animals for Covid 19. yy Trained more than 43487 migratory workers in agriculture returning to rural areas of UP, MP, Bihar, Odisha, Jharkhand and Rajasthan. yy e-Courses for under graduate programmes in seven disciplines namely; Agriculture, Fisheries Science, Dairy Science, Veterinary Science and Animal Husbandry, Horticulture, Community Science and Agricultural Engineering have been created covering 1107 credits and 15820 lessons. These e-courses are available at https://ecourses.icar.gov.