 yy Cereal Systems Initiative for South Asia (CSISA) yy Stress-Tolerant Rice for Africa and South Asia (STRASA) yy IRRI South Asia Rice Breeding Hub – Hyderabad yy Regional cooperation on release of rice varieties yy Projects in a mission mode with various states in India such as Odisha, AP, Assam, UP and other similar rice growing states to promote and accelerate expansion and dissemination of improved varieties, research technologies and package of practices to enhance the livelihood of the poor formers. IRRI now has an extensive partnership with India in which around 250 NARES institutions/ organizations all over the country are collaborating in carrying out the projects included in the above signed work plan. The NARES network includes: yy ICAR institutes yy State Agricultural universities yy Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, GOI yy State Departments of Agriculture ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 87 yy Department of Biotechnology yy NGO and Private Sector yy Public & private sector seed corporations/ companies 5. Way forward With the establishment of a new regional rice hub at ICRISAT, Hyderabad and in close collaboration with ICAR and other public- and private-sector institutions and intend to build similar facilities in other parts of the country such as UP so that the IRRI-India partnership can assist rice-growing countries in South Asia and Africa in strengthening their rice program. This facility would allow the implementation of upstream research agenda agreed under the India-IRRI collaborative research program including targeted breeding research and training program with a spill over benefit to other SAARC countries and Africa. In upstream areas such as genomics and bioinformatics where Indian institutions have strong program, India could play a key role in supplementing IRRI’s global agenda. India with its large diversity of soil and climate, provide unique opportunities to develop situation specific rice varieties which will be relevant to not only India but also to other neighboring countries and Africa. While our on-going work on trait/varietal development with multiple abiotic (drought, submergence, salinity) and biotic (sheath blight, blast, bacterial blight, RTV, gall midge, stem borer) stresses will continue to be focus, there is a need to initiate research to deal with emerging problems such as false smut, nematodes and low light intensity. Shorter duration rice which can fit in diverse cropping systems and appropriate grain quality should continue to be the priorities. With increasing the purchasing power of a significant sector of rice consumers, grain quality will have increasing demand. Emerging labor shortages and rising labor wages will require focusing in conservation tillage and direct-seeding Map showing major collaborative work sites of IRRI in India (shaded) http://irri.org/about-us/our-history ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 88 of rice.