 Her simplicity touched everyone and her efforts encouraged other farmwomen to become independent and follow her path. Keywords: Broiler farming, Farmwomen, Poultry Indian Farming 72(1): 27–28; January 2022 production in the world, but the availability of the chicken product is far below the recommended level (10.5 kg poultry meat and 180 eggs/ person/annum). The scenario is still alarmingly low in rural areas. The per capita consumption of eggs and meat is about 69 eggs and 3.4 kg meat per annum in India. In Andaman and Nicobar Island, the poultry production is still at the juvenile stage and needs an immediate boost. As per the 19th census, the total poultry population in Andaman and Nicobar Island is 11,65,363. Due to the growing demand of poultry meat in the Island, promotion of scientific broiler farming is one of the emerging income-generating activity for farmers. Smt. P. Meena, aged 50 years is a progressive farmwoman from Indira Nagar village of South Andaman, and similar to the other households of the area, she had a backyard poultry (60- 70 birds) but had no scientific knowledge of rearing them. The location of Indira Nagar makes it a very suitable area for rearing milch cattle, goats and backyard poultry. Smt. P. Meena was eager to learn scientific ways of animal husbandry, Broiler farm unit of Smt. P. Meena Smt. P Meena working in her Broiler farm Indian Farming January 2022 28 she has undergone various skill imparting training programs in the areas of scientific broiler farming, backyard poultry farming, dairy farming and value addition of milk at ICAR-Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK), South Andaman. After imbibing various skills, studying and focusing on all the pros and cons of the different poultry and livestock farming, Smt. P. Meena chose poultry farming for her livelihood. Though desi poultry, Vanraja bird is the most sought commodity at market and fetches more price, it needs to be reared for a longer period (more than 5 months). Whereas, the commercial broiler bird can be sold after 35 days and the production and profit is higher per unit area compared to the desi bird. To gain the scientific experience, she initially started farming with just 200 broiler birds per batch during 2011-12 in her backyard with a small temporary shelter. By this, she not only could earn a net profit of ` 60,000 during the year 2011-12 but also gained experience in broiler farming, feeding, rearing and health management aspects. This was a boost to pave and expand her farming horizontally. The tourism industry took a new height in the Island, which invited a huge number of tourists to the Island and this caused heavy influx of collared workers from mainland India. Thus, the total population of the visitors from the mainland outnumbered the Island’s population and also tourism increased the purchasing power of the islanders.