 Fisheries Science—The provision is to implement research and academic programmes in fisheries and aquaculture. It also provides technical, training, analytical, advisory support and consultancy services in the field of resources assessment and management, standardization of aquaculture hatchery and grow-out culture technologies, responsible fishing system and species diversification and utilization of inland saline soils for aquaculture, fish health monitoring, etc. 11. Agricultural Universities and institutions—The provision will provide financial support to all the agricultural universities in the country comprising State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed universities (DUs), and Central Universities (CUs) with Agriculture Faculty. The scheme is also responsible for maintainance and improvement of standard of agricultural education through (i) accreditation of educational institutions, (ii) providing International/national fellowships both at post and undergraduate levels, (iii) organization of training and capacity building programmes for the scientists/faculty of National Agricultural Research System in cutting-edge areas. 12. Economics, statistics and management—The provision is for conducting research in the areas of agricultural economics and agricultural statistics to address the policy, management and database issues and accordingly provide need-based support to other schemes and agricultural stakeholders. 13. The provision is for National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) which aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented and on par with the global agriculture education standards. 14. The provision is for the externally aided component of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) which aims to develop resources and mechanism for supporting infrastructure, faculty and student advancement, and providing means for better governance and management of agricultural universities, so that a holistic model can be developed to raise the standard of current agricultural education system that provides more jobs and is entrepreneurship oriented and on par with global agricultural standards. 15. ICAR Headquarter—provision is primarily for the salaries, pensions and expenses on administrative and logistic support to different schemes under ICAR in order to implement them efficiently. The provision in RE 2018–19 goes up dramatically because of revision of pay scales and pension to Scientific personnel of ICAR due to implementation of 7th CPC. 16. Central Agricultural Universities—The provision is to strengthen the regional education, research and extension capabilities based on local agro-climatic situation. 17.