 At present, the carbon content of the soil has decreased from 3 per cent to 0.2 per cent. And owing to reduction in vegetation cover, soils are becoming more compact leading to reduced water drainage or seepage. Earlier there used to be 25 trees per acre, now the number is reduced to 5 trees per acre, which contributed in increasing soil organic matter and facilitated better drainage and seepage of water. Carbon content of the soil can be increased by natural farming using cow dung & urine. It is rich in nutrients and its beneficial bacteria boost soil fertility. A mixture of cow urine and water extract of neem leaves has proven to keep away pests. Swami ji said that for our country to become Atmanirbhar; natural farming is the need of the hour. Examples that people are earning Rs 12 lakh per acre by integrated (natural) farming. Earlier cows were called ‘Gau Dhan’ and very rightly it is true in the present also they Shri P.P. Adrushya Kadsiddheshwar Swamiji is a sole trustee of the Shri Siddhagiri Math and Siddhagiri Gurukul Foundation. He has a keen interest in gaining knowledge in scientific and developmental aspects and implementing it in the fields of education, agriculture, health and culture. 40 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series are the source of milk and various dairy products, wet dung can be used for producing biogas for making food and remaining slurry can be used as a manure. Punchgavya a natural growth promoter is also prepared from cow milk, ghee, curd, cow urine and cow dung. In a way, using desi cow-based natural farming our villages and country can become self- dependent (Atmanirbhar). Key takeaways Orientation of agriculture needs to be towards traditional methods for maintaining sustainability of the ecosystem. Integrated (natural) farming is important and cow-based farming system needs to be popularized to make country Atmanirbhar. 41 Sustainable Agriculture RETHINKING THE WAY WE FARM IN INDIA Bina Agrawal Indian agriculture today represents a paradox. On the one hand it was the only sector in India’s economy which had a positive growth rate through the pandemic. In the first quarter of 2020 while overall GDP contracted by 23.9 per cent, agriculture grew by 3.4 per cent. At the same time, over the decades, agricultural growth has come at a high environmental cost, making it unsustainable. Problems and challenges Agriculture today contributes only 15- 16 per cent of India’s GDP. The yields of the major food crops, rice and wheat, are much below their potential. Climate change is speeding up. Some 86 per cent of our farmers are small and fragmented and most of them want to leave farming. It is therefore time to rethink the way we farm. Ecologically, we see depleting water sources, degraded soils and declining biodiversity, in addition to climate change. Water is the key to higher production and yields, but even after 70 years of planning only 47 per cent of India’s cropped area is irrigated.