 The Varivarga includes various types of lotuses and waterlilies such as Saugandhika– light red lily; Rakta sandhyaka – red lily; Kumuda – white lily; Indivara, Kuvalaya (Nelumbo nucifera), Padma, Nalina, Rajiva, Pundarika (Nymphaea nonchali) – white lotus. Vaisya varga (commercial crops) includes cereals, pulses and vegetables like cowpea, onion, pumpkin and gourds. Arthasastra (C. 300 BC) by Acharya Kautilya mentioned methods of seed treatment, viz. seeds are treated with heat; vegetative propagules like stalks are smeared at the cut end with honey, ghee and pig’s fat mixed with cow-dung; bulbous roots are smeared with honey and ghee; and stone like seeds to be smeared with cow-dung before sowing. Aine-e-Akbari by Abul Fazal documented detailed account of fruits and vegetables grown in India. He Yam Brinjal Pumpkin Water chestnut Banana’s pseudostem March–April 2023 29 neem (Margosa) tree can be still more bitter. The proverb is to signify wisdom and knowledge of a plant and its distribution to a region. Some old taboo/rituals and spiritual ceremonies play vital role for conservation of plant species. Some details of important religious and ritualistic knowledge of plants are discussed in Table 1. Vegetable plant products, e.g. lotus (Nelumbo nucifera), brahmkamal (Saussurea spp.), turmeric (known as sobhna due to its golden colour-Curcuma longa), ash gourd (kushmand- Benincasa hispida), brinjal (Solanum melongena), cucumber (urvaruka- Cucumis sativus), water chestnut (singharas), bottle gourd (alaby- Lagenaria siceraria), Shivlingi (due to shape of seeds like ‘Shiva-linga’ in wild cultigens of cucurbits- Diplocyclus palmatus), Marorphali (due to shape of twisted fruit- Helicteres isora) are associated with gods and goddesses as their symbols so that these are used in worshiping and offered to deities (gods and goddesses) during religious ceremony and fasting days as presented in the table. Urvaruk (Cucumber) is designated as symbol of Mahakal/ immortality. The belief about origin of certain plants from the body of gods and deities attracts special spiritual significance to the species, viz. lotus (padma)- the naval region of Prajapati (Lord Vishnu). Execution of yajna maintains the balance of five major elements (sky, air, fire, water, earth) for sustainable crop production. In various rituals, cereals grains and legume seeds (Garmut-Vigna adenantha; Masa- Vigna mungo), are commonly used in ‘samidhas’ (Shakla) offered to the deities in yajna. For further interaction, please write to: A N Tripathi (Scientist), Division of Crop Protection, ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: antripathi_patho@rediffmail.