 The Common Service Layer mentioned here is a horizontal layer of functions commonly needed across different market segments / not segment-specific. This is similar to generic versus use case-specific computer/OS in early times of computers. It would enable the industry to develop standard based applications which would reduce the development, test and deployment lifecycles. By deploying the Standards Compliant Common Service Layer Platform, M2M Service Providers can offer wide range of services developed by the industry. It can also play a pivotal role in the Smart City Projects by easing the development efforts of the application providers offering solutions for smart city project. Major benefits of oneM2M Standards Following are the major benefits of oneM2M Standards: TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 56 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 57 1. The development of new innovative applications would be much easier due to well defined standards. This would be immensely beneficial even for smaller organisations/start-ups. 2. Interoperability of devices and applications would become possible due to standardized interfaces. 3. Only authenticated and authorized devices would be able to communicate. 4. Information and statistics regarding the loT devices and applications would be available. 5. Resource utilization can be monitored by the authorities. 6. Regulations, KYC can be enforced. 7. Data Security and Privacy concerns are addressed. 8. Data sharing would be feasible in a standardized way among divergent applications. 9. Integration of innovative applications across domains would be much easier. 10. Device Management becomes easy. 11. Certification would become feasible (with standardized test suites) for- a. Devices: Ecosystem of Certified products b. Applications: Sharing of data, interworking, Security c. Services: Compliance C-DOT Common Service Platform (CCSP): C-DOT Common Service Platform (CCSP) for IoT/ M2M Communication is based on oneM2M specifications. CCSP (IoT platform) allows any IoT application to discover and interact with any IoT device. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 1. The development of new innovative applications would be much easier due to well defined standards. This would be immensely beneficial even for smaller organisations/start-ups. 2. Interoperability of devices and applications would become possible due to standardized interfaces. Only authenticated and authorized devices would be able to communicate. Information and statistics regarding the loT devices and applications would be available. Resource utilization can be monitored by the authorities. Regulations, KYC can be enforced. Data Security and Privacy concerns are addressed. Data sharing would be feasible in a standardized way among divergent applications.