 For higher productivity the concentrate formulae should be having protein not less than 22 %. The ration should preferably be offered in the form of total mixed ration (TMR). In this case add concentrate mixture to wheat straw and required green fodders before feeding. This will result in higher nutrient utilization and higher animal productivity. Practices for feeding of newborn calves and growing calves yy Calves should receive colostrum (about 10% of body weight, at least 2 and preferably 3 litre) as soon as possible after birth or at least within the first six hours for up to 4-5 days after birth. If colostrum is not available, a suitable substitute should be given to the calf as soon as possible and certainly within 24 hours of birth. The colostrum provides local immunity in the gut and is a highly digestible, high quality food. yy Where proper feeding management is possible, the young calf may not be separated from the mother and allowed to suckle from the dam, ensuring that the calf is getting the required quantity of milk. yy All weaned calves must have free access to a daily supply of drinking water sufficient for their needs. Troughs should be cleaned and maintained regularly. Water should be palatable. 22 MANUAL ON MANAGEMENT OF GAUSHALAS yy After colostrum feeding the calves should be fed as per following feeding schedule Age of calf Whole milk (kg)/day 6 - 30 days 3.50 (87.5)* 31 - 60 days 2.50 (75.0) 61 - 90 days 1.50 (45.0) 91 - 120 days 1.00 (30.0) Total milk required for feeding one calf up to 4 months (kg) (237.5) [* Figure in brackets show the total requirement of milk.] Practices for feeding of heifers and cows yy Feed according to recommended feeding standards (ICAR. 2013. Nutrient Requirements of Cattle and Buffalo). The nutritional management of heifers requires a systematic approach to meet growth targets as nutrition and growth rate affect age of first calving and lifetime productivity. Ensure the composition of diets reflects production level, reproductive stage, body size, housing and weather conditions. yy Test nutrient content of feed ingredients periodically by consulting an animal nutritionist/dairy expert from a local agricultural/veterinary university/ Krishi Vigyan Kendras (Farm science Centres at district level). yy Ensure all rations have been balanced and that all feed components used in the ration are of good quality and free of spoilage. yy Where a change of feed is needed it should be introduced gradually, e.g. over a 7 - 10 day period. Abrupt changes in diet should be avoided. yy When increasing concentrates, do so gradually (0.5 to 0.7 kg / head / day) according to appetite. yy Provide fresh feed to the cows daily. Keep a consistent feeding schedule, provide adequate feed manger access time, and ensure continuous access by pushing up feed in the feed manger. yy Ensure that feed surfaces are smooth and not more than approximately 4-6 inches higher than the standing area.