 ( Commercialized) • Women Friendly Power Operated Groundnut Stripper Cum Decorticator • Ergonomically suitable low cost harvesting bag for easy loading and unloading while harvesting fruits and vegetables • Low cost Solar Drying Rack for drying of food products for preservation • A prototype of disc type ridger considering the female anthropometry has been designed and developed with women’s perspective to ease the earthing up operation. • High Fibre Food Mix for management of obesity developed by ICAR-CIWA AICRP on Home Science Centre, University of Agricultural Sciences, GKVK, Bengaluru ( Commercialized) • Nutri dense mix to address under- nutrition • Nutridense ladoo • Exclusive portal for gender in agriculture based on gender disaggregated data, technologies, methodologies etc. which may help the stakeholders at national and international level. • Database on Low Glycemic index food - A total of 362 foods from different food groups having low Glycemic Index (GI) for addressing non-communicable diseases such as diabetes were documented and a database on low glycemic index foods for the management of diabetes was prepared. 202 ICAR Institutes Profile 202 ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Institute of Agricultural Economics and Policy Research,Dev Prakash Shastri Marg, Library Avenue, Pusa, New Delhi - 110012 ii. Name of the Director: Dr. Pratap Singh Birthal (Acting) iii. Email address: Email: director.niap@icar.gov.in; Phone No.: +91-11-25843036 2. Mandate and activities • Agricultural economics and policy research on markets,trade and institutions • Growth and development models for sustainable agriculture • Technology policy, evaluation and impact assessment Activities: 1. Policy studies on agricultural development issues through in-house, collaborative and consultancy research 2. Strengthening agricultural economics and policy research 3. Salient achievements: • Agricultural growth is likely to grow not more than 4% over the next 15 years, i.e. by 2037. • Number of cultivators has been declining since 2011-12, but the decline is due to withdrawal of female cultivators. • Credit besides enhancing agricultural productivity also improves its resilience to climate change, indicating need for adaptation finance. • The poor uptake of crop insurance is due to its less adaptation gains compared to other adaptation measures such as irrigation. • Farm mechanisation is positively associated with crop yield and net returns. • Seasonality, plays an important role in their exports of vegetables. It is essential to identify seasonal trade windows and promote exports of commodities having a comparative advantage. 4.