 Keywords: fractured bone, aonla, turmeric, geru, lime The fractured bone is aligned properly with the help of bamboo splits, and linseed oil is applied twice daily over Farmers of hilly areas of Shimla district of Himachal Pradesh Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Ram Bahadur, S/o Shri Narayan, village Maheshpur (Shivsingh), Bhairpura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Lala Ram, S/o Shri Tikka Ram, village Nitoie, Bhmora dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Harish Kumar, S/o Shri Shankar Lai, Khiraka, Auadh and Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3282 Healing of fracture in goats by using the latex of Euphobia tirucalli 3283 Cure of bone fracture in animals with lahori salt, turmeric (ambia), chotchaji and satawar (Asperagus racimosus) 3284 Use of lasik rangik (jackfruit) bark to cure bone fracture in animals it. Bone is rejoined within 10-15 days. Cattle owners of villages Khiraka and Khai Khera of district Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) follow this practice. Keywords: linseed oil, bamboo split, fracture In this practice some leaves of Euphobia tirucalli (kallipal) are taken and 50 ml latex is collected from them. One piece of white cloth is taken and this latex is applied on the white cloth, which is tied over the fractured part. This has to be used once a day for 3 days. Keywords: kallipal, white cloth, white latex In this practice, powder of all the materials (50 g each) is taken and a paste is prepared, which is applied on the fractured organ. Farmers of Khai Khera village observe that the bone is rejoined within 10 days. Keywords: lahori salt, turmeric (ambia), chotchaji, satawar, bone fracture When an animal suffers from bone fracture, the Adi tribals of Pasighat area in East Siang district (Arunachal Pradesh) take 500 g bark of jackfruit and prepare its paste. In this paste 5-10 g salt is added and the mixture is heated for 2-3 min. This mixture is applied over the affected part of the body. The same practice is repeated at an interval of 3-4 days up to 25-30 days for complete recovery. It has efficacy of 60-70%. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: tasik rangik, salt, jackfruit, bone fracture Shri Md. Jaki Ahmed, S/o Shri Navi Ahmed, Khai Khera, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri P. Amaiyan, Malaiyur, P.O. Lingavadi, Dindigul (Tamil Nadu) Md Miyya S/o Shri Raihis Khan Khaikhera, Rithoura, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No.