 Gupta (1993) 86 Control of anthrax A suspension consisting of 20 g turmeric (fresh or dry), 50 g onion (Allium cepa) and 100 ml lime water given orally with the help of dharati once a day for 3-4 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh) Gupta (1993) 87 Treatment of anaemic and weak animals Fermented wheat flour or fermented banana is fed to the animals which are weak and anaemic (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh) Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 200 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 88 Control of eczyma disease in cattle by coal and ash Fuelwood coal and ash which is generally used for washing the utensils is applied on the affected parts of the animal (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh) Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 89 Control of colic in horses Tobacco smoke is given by closing one nostril so that horse could inhale maximum smoke quickly. This treats colic (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 90 Treatment of valo The affected animals become docile and immobile as a result of this disease. Some farmers cure it by forcing the animal to stand or float in deep water. Another method is to startle the animal with a black cloth or with some noise so that it gets up and becomes active. In either case 200 g tea powder boiled in one liter water is given to the animal (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Patel (1992e) 91 Curing valo disease by smoking Valo is a common disease in cows and buffaloes in the monsoon. It is characterized by continuous salivation and the animal stops eating. To treat the affected animal, about 500 g to 700 g of salt is rubbed on the animal’s back for about half an hour. Sawdust of sisam (Dalbergea sisso) wood and a gunny bag are put on burning coal in a container to produce a continuous stream of smoke. The animal is forced to inhale the smoke by keeping the container near its muzzle. This treatment shows effect within two days and the animal gets cured (Junagadh, Gujarat). Ralu (1995) 92 To prevent prolapse of uterus To prevent premature delivery in cattle, farmers give approximately one kg of castor oil to the animal in the morning, in three to four split doses, along with other feed. They prefer to give castor oil with jaggery after 3-4 months of pregnancy. Sometimes Kamachi locally available coloured clay used for painting is also mixed in water and given to the animal. Some farmers use it to paint the upper surface of the animals body to maintain optimum body heat. Most farmers follow all these practices at serious times according to the availability of resources and severity of the problem (Gandhinagar, Gujarat). Chamar (1993) 201 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 93 Treatment of rabies Approximately 10 leaves of Alotropis spp and jaggery are fed to the animal . The animal calms down within an hour or so after this treatment.