 Rice grains absorb or desorb moisture from the surrounding air until equilibrium is reached. This equilibrium condition depends on the air’s relative humidity and temperature [46–48]. In rice kernels, moisture-sorption-induced moisture content gradients generate hygroscopic strains. When MC gradients exceed the Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 9 of 24 mechanical strength of rice kernels, cracks occur [49]. These cracks are perpendicular to the longitudinal axis of the rice grain [50,51]. These ﬁssures then weaken the rice kernels during dehulling and milling [52,53]. The illustration of MC gradients in paddy can be seen in Figure 2. Figure 2. Illustration of gradient moisture content in paddy that leads to different glass transition temperatures (Tg). Rice grains absorb water when it rains, dews, or when its MC is below the equilibrium state of the air. This moisture sorption may result in cracking when rice grains are dried to an MC of less than 12 to 15%. Furthermore, harvesting affects grain ﬁssures because ﬁelds are drained to facilitate grain drying and mechanized harvesting. Early ﬁeld drainage reduces milling rice concentrations during harvest. The drying MC gradients determine the ability of rice grains to fracture. The greater the MC gradients within the kernels and the more ﬁssured the rice grains become after drying, the more surface moisture is removed. Rice kernel glass transitions reveal the effect of MC gradients on ﬁssuring during water desorption. In response to a given melting temperature (MC), the glass transition temperature (Tg) is the temperature at which the kernel becomes brittle or elastic. Moisture content (MC) determines rice’s Tg. Below Tg, amorphous rice kernel material is vitreous, and above Tg, it is rubbery. The expansion coefﬁcients, speciﬁc volumes, and diffusivities of vitreous rice kernels are decreased [54–57]. Chalkiness is another factor that affected the head rice yield of rice. According to many research studies, chalky rice kernels are more susceptible to breakage during dehulling and milling than transparent rice kernels, which reduces HRY [58]. The poor hardness of chalky rice kernels, which makes them less resistant to mechanical pressures, contributes to their lower resistance to grain breaking [59]. Using nitrogen fertilizer has a favourable effect on the HRY of chalky rice varieties. Fertilization with nitrogen increases the number of protein bodies within the endosperm. As a result, the spaces between the irregularly shaped, loosely packed starch granules in chalky rice are ﬁlled. Consequently, the fragility of the chalky kernels decreases. This reduces rice fragmentation during dehulling and milling [60]. Immature rice kernels lack tensile strength and, as a result, shatter very easily during dehulling and milling [61,62]. Agriculture 2023, 13, 1390 10 of 24 Parboiling is one method for preventing rice from breaking.