 The pest’s life cycle is closely tied to temperature, with one generation completing in 14-15 days at a consistent temperature of 28°C. In the favourable climate of Northeast India, this pest has rapidly become a significant threat to vegetable crops. It is strongly advised to conduct regular monitoring of the pest. An effective method to manage leaf miners is by collecting the mined and dried leaves and disposing of them. Chemical management options involve spraying Cyantraniliprole 10.26 OD @ 1.8 ml per litre. Botanical solutions such as 5% neem seed kernel extract in sprays can significantly reduce egg laying and deter larval feeding. Spinosad and horticultural oils, including neem oil, are very good organic control agents for leaf miners. Farmers can apply these during the flush and spray on young, developing leaves. While average temperatures are below 25o C, spray the leaves for 10-14 days until they have hardened. The oils may also help inhibit eggs from hatching. Hemipteran Bugs Recently, bugs have also become an emerging pest of many economically important horticultural crops of NE India. The Kachai Lemon is a rough lemon landrace known for its exceptional yield and significant commercial worth. Due to its uniqueness, Kachai Lemon has been accorded geographical indication (GI) registration (GI- 466). It is considered to have the highest ascorbic acid, 51%, while other lemon cultivars have only 20 to 30%. The fruit is commonly consumed in its raw form and is utilised to produce juice and pickles. It was reported that the hemipteran bugs are attacking sporadically throughout the crop growth stage of Kachai Lemon, Citrus jambheri Lush all year round in various parts of Kachai lemon-growing areas of Ukhrul, Manipur. The nymphs and adults of pentatomid bugs, Cappaea taprobanensis, attack by sucking the sap of young shoots and leaves, thereby causing the leaf yellowing and drying Citrus leaf miner and damage on citrus plant Indian Horticulture 108 up of the leaves and stem. They also attack fruits, which reduces the quality of the juice sac and affects the market value. The punctured point may cause further bacterial secondary infection on the fruit. Litchi is also another fruit that is coming up very well in Manipur. It is already an established crop in Assam, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh, Sikkim, Mizoram and Nagaland. Its production is also quite good in these NE states. The litchi bug, Tessaratoma javanica (Thunberg), is also becoming a menace in recently developed litchi- growing areas of Manipur. Due to its sucking habit, both the nymphs and adults of the stink bug cause injury to the newly appeared shoot at the start of the winter season. Its infestation has led to hampering the growth and development of the parts of the plants. Once the fruit formation starts, they puncture the peduncle of the newly emerged fruits and block the nutrient supply for further fruit development.