 69, appropriate strategy for developing dryland agriculture may differ from the high-input, monoculture approach of the Green Revolution that successfully transformed India’s more favorable agricultural areas (Kumar et al., 2016). In semi-arid and arid regions of India, dry land agriculture has no substitute for providing nutritive food, inter-alia millet, coarse grains, oilseeds, and pulses. Fur- ther, the economic opportunities for expanding irrigated areas are limited, and the productivity in irrigated areas has plateaued. The predominant crops in dry lands include coarse cereals (85%), pulses (83%), oilseeds (70%), and cotton (65%), cultivated by the bulk of the small and mar- ginal farmers contributing around 44% of the total value of the agricultural output (CRIDA, 2012). Despite re- search and developmental programs targeted towards im- proving the productivity of dry/rainfed crops, the produc- tivity is low, varying from 0.8 to 1.0 t/ha, and the chal- lenge is to double productivity to ensure food and nutri- tional security (CRIDA, 2012). Dryland’s agriculture pro- duction systems are diverse and heterogeneous. They are grouped into five classes viz. (i) rainfed rice production system; (ii) coarse nutritious cereal-based production sys- tem; (iii) oilseed-based production system; (iv) pulse- based production system, and (v) cotton-based production system. The dry land crops are hungry and thirsty, highlighting the need to apply optimum doses of yield-augmenting in- puts with supplementary/protective life-saving irrigations to enhance productivity (Kumar et al., 2016). Among dry- land kharif cereals, pearl millet is the key crop in arid and semi-arid regions and is also one of the rich, nutritious cereals supporting food and nutrition security of poor people and livestock in dry land regions (Chary et al., 2022). Improving production, productivity, and value ad- dition of pearl millet is crucial for improving the farm economy. While yields of total cereals have generally doubled, the yields of coarse cereals such as maize, sor- ghum, and millet have shown less rapid increase. The re- search on intercropping systems suggested that the addi- tive series was most successful with base crops such as sorghum, maize, pearl millet, pigeonpea, safflower, and wheat, wherein the land equivalent ratios of the additive series were greater (with an average of 23% more) than replacement series with multiple benefits of higher output and returns, spread labour peaks, maintenance of soil fer- tility (with the inclusion of legume) and stability in pro- duction. Intercropping of fast-growing legumes like cow- pea and greengram as cover crops benefitted the base crop in better resource efficiency. The performance of the inter- cropping systems was strongly correlated with the amount of seasonal rainfall.