 However, we would like to clearly state two points this article does not claim: First, we focus on systematically assessing the opportunity space and structural limits for increasing farmers’ incomes from crop production with a unique large n dataset. Secondly, this article does not claim that overall, there are few benefits from irrigation-led intensification of agriculture – we believe that there are many. What we do claim and specify is that the increases in farmers’ incomes from crop production are structurally limited by small farm sizes and consequently are likely to remain far below the poverty line for most smallholders in the EGP because the IBI is unlikely to change soon. This claim has important consequences for research and development planning and policies. Our results show that while irrigation-led intensification is associ­ ated with improved productivity of rice-wheat systems, most farms are too small to substantially increase their incomes from crop production through irrigation-led intensification. These findings align with studies of the effects of climate shocks on different farm types and the adoption of conservation agriculture in the region (Keil et al., 2019; Lopez- Ridaura et al., 2018). One possible consequence may be a structural transformation involving many smallholders stepping out of agriculture followed by consolidation of land into larger units (Dorward et al., 2009). However, agricultural development in other land-scarce rice producing countries in Asia, such as Japan or Thailand, did not lead to an increase in farm sizes as it did in Europe or North America. Here, part- time and family farm rice-cultivation with scale-appropriate mechani­ zation has prevailed as a common mode of rice cultivation, albeit with ageing farmers, high levels of subsidies and often inefficient farm management (Doner and Schneider, 2016; Faysse et al., 2020; Veld­ huizen et al., 2020). Achieving wider irrigation use and consequently higher levels of productivity therefore requires policymakers to cater to the needs of both small and large farmers with varying investment preferences. These need to consider not only the cost of irrigation but also changes in mobility, off-farm wage rates and opportunities, family labor, and drudgery required to apply water to the fields (Keil et al., 2019; Khatri-Chhetri et al., 2020). Developing an improved under­ standing of what works where, for whom, and why is required to bring benefits of more reliable irrigation to farmers in the EGP. For example, better-connected farmers and those with larger land­ holdings can derive substantial improvements in household incomes from upgrading to solar or grid powered systems. Subsidized solar sys­ tems targeted for group use could provide some additional benefits for small farmers that have horticultural plots close to homesteads, with market linkages and transportation infrastructure (Agrawal and Jain, 2019).