 Besides Punjab, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Rajasthan, West Bengal, Haryana, Himachal Pradesh and Bihar are major pea growing states. We can also preserve the green pods/ tender seeds for a long time by drying, canning or freezing in order to fetch higher prices during the offseason. Pea is easy to grow, but have a very limited growing season. Therefore, its cultivation as per recommendation of Punjab Agricultural University is of utmost importance. Technology P EA, being a cool season crop, requires frost-free weather especially at flowering and pod formation stage though vegetative growth is not affected by the frost. The optimum temperature for its germination is about 20- 25oC. Though, its seeds can germinate at 4-5 oC but under severe frost condition, its flowers and young pods may be damaged. High temperature reduces the pod quality as sugars in the seeds changes to hemicellulose and starch. A temperature above 27oC shortens its growing period but adversely affects pollination process. Sowing time and seed rate play crucial role not only in crop production but also in escape of several insect- pests and diseases. Likewise, a healthy pea crop can be possible only if sown between mid-October to mid- November (for rabi season crop). Avoid early sowing of crop in September to get rid of pea wilt to some extent. The optimum seed rate is 45 kg/acre for early maturing varieties, while 30 kg/acre for main season varieties. The sowing should be done in line, with the spacing of 30 cm × 7.5 cm and 30 cm × 10 cm (row × plant) for early and main season varieties, respectively. Farmers may also make use of seed-cum-fertilizer pea drill having a sowing capacity of one acre in an hour. Seed treatment prior to sowing with Rhizobium leguminosarum culture is the simplest way to increase pea production and quality as it helps in quick nodulation on the roots which in turn fix atmospheric nitrogen. Farmers can get this culture from the Department of Microbiology, Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. Culture should be mixed thoroughly in half litre of water and the suspension is rubbed gently on all the four sides of the seeds. Let the treated seed shade dry well before sowing. One packet of culture is sufficient for one acre seed. Nutrients application, irrigation and their timing are the major prerequisite for growing healthy crop. Go for refined annual soil testing to know the nutrient status of the field and based on soil test report follow proper manuring and fertilization of the crop. Farmyard manure @ 8 tonnes should be properly incorporated at the time of land preparation. Generally, pea crop has low nitrogen Irrigation of the crop Indian Horticulture 30 requirement. Therefore, full dose of nitrogen 20 kg (45 kg urea), phosphorus 25 kg (155 kg superphosphate) per acre should be applied before sowing. A pre-sowing irrigation is essential for proper seed germination. For the production of peas, first irrigation should be done after 15 days of sowing.