 Method of preparation: • Mix crushed neem leaves (2 kg), tobacco powder (500 g), green chilli chutney (500 g) and garlic chutney (250 g) in cow’s urine (20 litres) and boil on low flame by covering it with a lid. • After this, keep this mixture for 48 hours and mix this mixture with a wooden stick in the morning and evening. Brahmastra: It is useful in the control of sucking insects, weevils/ caterpillars. Ingredients for preparation for 1 acre: Any 5 plants viz. Darek, Sita Phal, Castor, Papaya, Mango, Guava, Datura, Duranta or any other available and prepare leaf sauce (200 g per plant). Method of preparation: • Dip the chutney of the above leaves in cow urine (4 litres) and cook on a low flame for a while. • Heat till it boils. After this keep it to cool for 48 hours. • Mix 2.5–3 litres of solution in 200 litres of water and spray it on the crop. SUCCESS STORIES OF FARMERS IN HIMACHAL PRADESH Success story 1 Atma Ram, 63, a resident of Kalpa block (Kinnaur), who retired from the post of health supervisor was fed up with the increasing use of pesticides and other chemicals. Knowing the importance of health, he adopted natural farming in 2018 and is now connecting other farmers of the area with this method. Atma Ram came to know about natural farming from the officials of the Department of Agriculture. Enthused by the initial knowledge, he took formal training in natural farming from Palekar in Kufri (Shimla) in 2016. He was so impressed by this 6-day training camp that as soon as he came back, he started using natural farming inputs in his fields and observed good production. Apart from fruits, he has also adopted this method on cereals and vegetables. In 2022, he has harvested 1.5 q cabbage, 1 q tomato and 1 q pumpkin from his field. He has also planted saffron in his orchard for home consumption. Incidence of woolly apple aphid was observed but it was controlled by the spray of Dashparni ark. Although the yield was less but the quality of fruit was better. Atma Ram’s agriculture-horticulture model is also encouraging other farmers of the district. Farming model adopted by Atma Ram: • Total land holding: 10 bigha. • Apple varieties: Royal Delicious, Argan Spur, Super Chief, Gail Gala, Golden Spur • Other crops: Maize, Rajmah, Peas, Garlic, Tomato, Cabbage, Capsicum, Bottle gourd, Radish, Pear, Japanese Fruit, Yellow chilli, Kesar and Grapes. • Chemical farming: Investment: ₹30,000 Returns: ₹2,00,000 • Natural farming: Investment: ₹4,000 Returns: ₹5,00,000 Left to Right: Daffodils intercropped with saffron and apple, saffron flower and yellow chilli Indian Farming 14 August 2023 Success story 3 Ganga, a teacher, suffered from health issues realized that one of the major reasons for her health issues was non- availability of chemical free produce. Therefore, from 2013, she started experimenting on various farming methods. When Ganga started her natural farming trail, she was not supported by her family.