 Fresh-cut apple wedges dipping in the antioxidant aqueous solution helped maintain L* values during storage, although the most effective formulation was that containing 4-HR to maintain high L* angle values in apples over 7 storage days at 5 + 2 ºC. Overall, the combined application of anti-browning agents maintained Apple slicer Indian Horticulture 26 lower a* and higher L* values than the alone antioxidant aqueous solution, which indicates its potential to control the enzymatic browning of fresh-cut apples. Summary Enzymatic browning is an economically important physiological problem that impairs the sensory qualities and discourages consumer purchase of fresh-cut apples. Control of browning on fresh-cut apples has been the focus of extensive research and many technologies have been explored with successful results. Research on effective combinations of various chemical compounds above needs to be undertaken since no single treatment can effectively enhance the shelf life of fresh-cut apple wedges while controlling browning and preserving the quality and safety for consumers. For further interaction, please write to: Pushpendra Kumar (Assistant Professor), Department of Post Harvest Management, College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University (I), Pasighat 791 102 Arunachal Pradesh. Corresponding author e-mail: docpkumar@rediffmail.com Hunter L* and a* values of apple wedges after seven days of storage. Bars on graph represent standard error. Please renew your Indian Horticulture subscription on time For assistance contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com January–February 2021 27 Raghavendra H R*, Chirag Desai, Varun M Hiremath, Tejukumar B K and Udaya T V Kalpatharu: A plant with virtues The concept of waste valorisation has been precisely defined as the process of converting waste materials into useful products. Waste valorisation relies on the assumption that even after efficient intended use, the waste still contains untapped sources that can be converted into other useful forms. Apart from the development of technologies, waste valorisation has several advantages like, reduction of volume of produce, recovery of more space and mainly amelioration of environmental pollution. As banana fruit is considered, it is the cheapest, plentiful and most nutrient fruit which is having great economic significancy in our country. In India it is so predominant crop and popular among people that it is liked by both poor and rich alike. It is an important source of fibre, fodder, food, beverages, fermented sugars, medicines, flavourings, silage, rope, cordage, garlands, shelter, clothing, making house roofs and wall linings. By considering all these multifaceted uses, it is referred to as Kalpatharu.