Blaise), crossability with wild species (Dr. Vinito Gotmare) were corried aut at ClCR Nagpur under Networlc project on Tronsgenics ofICAR. Simultaneously conversion oJdifferent elite varieties and parentollines ofhybrids were carried out at ClCR by Dr.5uman Bola Singh, Dr. V. V.5ingh and at VAS Dharwad by Dr.I.5.Katageri and his group. I acknowledge the work carried out by Dr.LS.Katageri, Dr.P.Anandakumar, Dr.KR.Kranthl, Dr G.Balasubramani, Heads, ClCR NOBpur, Regional Station Sirsa and operating centres and their Involvement right from initiation to identification ofBN BtJar commercialization. DurifllJ the course aJtransfonnation and testing ofBN Bt the encouragement received from Dr.5. Lingappa and Dr SAPatil, then Director a! Research and Vice Chancellor respectively and present Vice Chancellor Dr. ].H.Kulkami is duly acknowledged. It is a great pleasure in placifllJ on record the encouragements received durifllJ the course ofdevelopment, testifllJ and identification ofBNBt for commercial cultivation especially by Dr.CD.Moyee, as a Director, CICR Nagpur, Agriculture Commissioner and Chairman ASRB New Delhi. Dr,/(Cjai1l, ADG(CC) Dr.G.Kalloo, fanner DDG(CS) and Dr.P.LGautam, DDG(CS), ICAR New Delhi, their encouragement, advise and help is a so duly acknowledged. It is a matter of great pleasure ta acknowledge Han'ble DG ICAR Dr.Mangala Rai for his constant encouragement and guidance right from the initiation of the work as a DDG(CS) lCAR under NATP and throughout the course ofdevelopment and testing and identificatian. Everyone directly or indirectly involved and helped In the develapment ofBNBt Is duly acknowledged. Sdl- BMKhadi Director ClCR, Nagpur Dated 1Z 1)S '2008 Annex III Confidential note ofDr Kranthi dated Zl/1O/Z009 on 'Development ofBtBlkaneri Norma with Bt event BNLA 106; addressed to Dr KCJain, ADG (cq Point No. Misrenresentatlon I distortions I facts on record 8/9 2005, _The peR result,; for crylAc showed that the samplesIThis was never discussed or reported in the meetings contained a full length gene of 3435 bp which indicated the held in May and Dec 2008 I probability or MonS31 cvent...__The rcswlts were I commuOIcated to Dr KhadL Dr Khadl fell thal lh.e PI'eSCtlCt:' of MonS31 in the putative BN Bt TS generation plants could nave been due to cont3minatlon and care would be taken to remove the same from the original event. He Infonned that he communicated the results and concerns to Dr Katgeri and Dr Ananda Kumar and the appropriate steps would be taken un I' 2008: After completing all the mandatory biosafety testing Neither Or Khadi nor Dr Kranthi raised the issue of and field expenmentation, the BN Bt variety was approved contamina.tion dur1ng tbe GEAC meeting for commerda.