 Committee(s) for briefing and giving guidelines to them for judging the achievements of an individual scientist in his/her respective discipline. 13. The Committee shall then decide on the performance of the scientists by taking into consideration the documents mentioned in para 3 above. The personal discussion with the scientist will not be a routine or formal type of interview to judge the theoretical knowledge or academic calibre of the scientist but will provide an opportunity to him to project his work and achievements during the period under assessment as well as to clarify and elaborate any specific aspect of work. The scientist will be free to add to or augment his record of work and may also bring to the notice of the Committee any bottlenecks that proved a constraint in his research output and functioning. 14. On the basis of their assessment the scientists will be recom- mended merit promotion or advance increment(s) or nothing as the case may be. The total number of advance increments to be given will not exceed three. One advance increment means one increment over and above the normal annual increment. 15. As far as possible, the recommendations of the Assessment Com- mittee may be finalised under the guidance of the Chairman, ASRB. ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 51 II. Scientists in Grade S-3 of the Agricultural Research Service 1. The provisions relating to merit promotion and advance incre- ments for scientists in Grades S, S-l and S-2 are contained in Rule 19 of the Rules for the Agricultural Research Service, The detailed procedure and the proforma for making Five-Yearly Assessment for this purpose have separately been finalised and circulated. 2. Rule 12 of the Agricultural Research Service Rules provides that a scientist may be allowed to have a personal scale of pay higher than that of Grade S-3 while continuing in the service, in recognition of outstanding performance in research. This Rule also requires that an appropriate procedure for assessment shall be prescribed by the Controlling Authority in consultation with the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board. The scientists in Grade S-3 are also eligible for grant of advance increments in terms of Rule 19 of the Agricultural Research Service Rules. 3. In pursuance of the above provisions the following procedure has been laid down for five-yearly assessment of scientists in Grade S-3 for grant of advance increments to them or for grant of S-4 scale of pay as personal to them : (i) The criteria for the five-yearly assessment will be as under : (a) Professional performance in relation to the duties and tasks assigned. It would be essential to lay emphasis on quality rather than on quantity of the research work done. (b) Spirit of co-operation and team work. (c) Managerial/organisational abilities/attributes. (d) Personal/behavioural abilities/attributes.