 Phenotyping of 3K panel subset for BB revealed 9 significant MTAs. Haplotype analysis is underway. For low GI, low GI- good texture lines characterized for yield. Low GI, intermediate GI lines subjected to transcriptome analysis and gene regulatory network derived to identify key candidate genes. At IIRR, Hyderabad- 8 lines with low GI tested in multilocation trial. Insect-Pest and Disease Forecasting and Decision Support System: For epidemiology and management of rice false smut, promising donors for false smut resistance from 3k panel ARC10317, Baran Boro, IR 77384-12-35-3-12-1 were identified and are being used in resistance breeding this season. Work is under way on identification of QTLs for false smut resistance. SNP on chromosome 3 has been found associated with false smut traits. Molecular characterization of the collected Ustilaginoidea virens isolates using multi- locus sequence typing (MLST) is under progress. The work on whole genome sequencing of one false smut isolate, UV-4 (using Ilumina and Nanopore) has been initiated. Collection, establishment and maintenance of false smut isolates collected from different parts of the country in progress. For Bacterial Blight, using genomic and phenotypic information on a large set of Xoo strains, stable molecular markers systems that can distinguish races have been developed. Using field experiments, real-time surveillance of races demonstrated. The markers have been transferred to a commercial platform, allowing other users to benefit from this technology. For blast, in 2017, a two-step method was developed by combining PCR amplification using resistant- haplotype specific primers and sequencing of PCR amplicon for the precise diagnosis of known R genes in 50 elite rice varieties. The frequency of putatively functional Pi2/9 alleles is as low as 16%. Based on the survey of deployed R genes, we recommend prioritizing the introgression of R gene/ alleles at the Pi2/9 locus and the Pikh gene at the Pik locus in the blast resistance breeding programs. Heavy Metal Excluders for Enhanced Rice Grain Safety: Low Arsenic Rice Multi-locational trial of 60 lines including traditional landraces and stress tolerant lines initiated in boro season for screening for tolerance/exclusion at Nadia (Low soil arsenic), Mustafabaad (Moderate soil arsenic), 24 Pargana (High soil arsenic) and Purulia (no soil arsenic control). For Bio-actives for Healthier Rice, method development for simultaneous quantification of 41 bioactive compounds including phenolics, flavonoids, anthocyanins, tocopherol and tocotrienol is in progress using LC-MS/MS. Hosted a National Food Science Symposium from 26th to 27th December 2019 with a focus on Nutritional quality value addition of rice and rice-based food products to foster collaborations. Applied Breeding, Multilocation Testing A set 390 lines of estimation set 2 (ES002) were evaluated for important yield traits at IRRI, South Asia Hub (IRRI-SAH), Hyderabad.