 All 70 genomic DNA samples were sequenced with 10x coverage at Illumina NovaSeq platform. The raw read of the samples varied from 7.3 to 262 million. The raw Q20 score was more than 95.8 while Q30 score was more than 91.2 indicating the good quality sequence data of the samples generated from the sequencing platform. The raw data are being analysed with bioinformatic tools for detection of SNPs of individual samples. DNA quality of 70 samples (checked by 1% agarose gel electrophoresis) used for whole genome sequencing Research Project on methane emission and its mitigation During the reporting period, an in vivo study to ascertain the impact of anti-methanogenic product (Harit Dhara) supplementation was carried out in eighteen sheep (Avg. BW 30.3 kg). Animals in control (CT), positive control (TM) and test group (HD) were fed on a basal diet comprising finger millet straw and concentrate in 50:50. Both the anti-methanogenic agents tamarind seed husk and Harit Dhara were supplemented at a level of 5% of basal diet. After preliminary feeding of one month, the methane measurement and nutrient digestibility trials were conducted to examine the impact of supplementation on feed intake, methane emission and nutrient digestibility. Results from the study did not reveal any significant (p>0.05) impact of Harit Dhara supplementation on feed intake. Similarly, the fibre digestibility (NDF & ADF) was among the control and test groups and did not vary (p>0.05) with the supplementation of Harit Dhara in present study. Enteric methane emission (g/d) measured using sulfur hexafluoride technique revealed a significant reduction (p<0.05) of ~22% as compared to the control was reported in Harit Dhara supplementation group of sheep, which is depicted in the figure. Data revealed a significant (p<0.05) reduction in total rumen protozoa, Entodiniomorphs and Holotrichs with the supplementation of anti- methanogenic supplement. Holotrichs appeared most vulnerable to the supplementation of Harit Dhara in present experiment. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 44 Effect of Harit Dhara supplementation on enteric methane emission (g/d) IVRI, Izatnagar has carried out a study to compare the enteric methane emission among indigenous and crossbred cattle and buffaloes fed on a similar diet comprising wheat straw and concentrate-based diet (70:30). Enteric methane emission in all the three species was measured using respiration chambers. There was no difference in the intake and nutrient digestibility among the buffaloes, indigenous (Tharparkar) and crossbred cattle. Similarly, the enteric methane emission was also similar in indigenous (165 L/d), crossbred (182 L/d) and buffaloes (177 L/d). Likewise, no difference in the feed intake, rumen pH, ammonia nitrogen, rumen protozoa and volatile fatty acid production was recorded in present study. Dr. John Goopy, Research Scientist, ILRI visited the NIANP during 16-20 October 2019.