 Serum repository: A total of 6,100 pig and 25,599 small ruminant serum samples received through AICRP- ADMAS centers were added to the National Livestock Serum Bank maintained at the Institute. CIRC-Cattle BLAD diagnostic assay kit: It is used for diagnosis of Bovine Leukocyte Adhesion Deficiency (BLAD) carrier bulls at their early stage of life based on identification of an SNP (D128G) in CD18 gene. The test will help avoid the transmission of BLAD from breeding bulls to its progeny. The test described in the kit is earmarked with its rapidity, user friendliness, economy and specificity. Quick and early detection kit for coenurosis in goats: Coenurosis resulted due to parasitic cyst lodged in brain and spinal cord, which lead to culling of animals. The advantage of this serological technique is excellent specificity cum early detection of coenurosis due to the use of Oncosphere based peptide antigen unique to Taenia multiceps. A total of 341 sera samples were subjected to TM16p-iELISA, of which 6.16% were positive for Coenurosis. New isolate for ET in goat for diagnostic kit: Novel isolates of Clostridium perfringens, which are unique with mutations at the ETX gene were identified based on molecular characterization and phylogenetic analysis. Both these ELISA diagnostic tools were validated on-site at CADRAD, ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar, and will be subsequently commercialized. Development of an IgM-ELISA kit for serodiagnosis of Japanese encephalitis in equines: An Indirect IgM ELISA kit was developed for serodiagnosis of JE in equines. The kit had 100% relative diagnostic sensitivity and 73.3% relative diagnostic specificity, when compared with a commercial JE IgM ELISA kit for horses (Biospes, China). A total of 228 equine serum samples collected from different endemic parts of India were screened by using JE IgM ELISA kit, which revealed a sero- positivity of 21.05% for IgM against JEV. Development of multiplex RT-qPCR kit for avian influenza: A Multiplex Real Time Reverse Transcriptase PCR kit for avian influenza A virus typing and differentiation of H5 and H9 subtypes developed was released. Sandwich ELISA kit for detection of Rotavirus: An early and rapid detection of Rotavirus (RVs) is a feasible alternative for initiating necessary measures to prevent the spread of infection to other animals as well as humans. The present indigenous ELISA kit provides an efficient way to know the early presence of the RVA in diarrheic calves. Synthetic endometrium: Developed a structurally and functionally competent ‘3-dimensional endometrial cell culture (3D-ECC) system for ruminants, as an alternate to animal experimentation to study early embryonic development and uterine infection in ruminants. Devised ‘Endometrium-Pathogen/ Embryo’ interactions model using developed 3D-ECC system help study patho-physiology of embryonic development and uterine infection.