 There is a huge production of banana in the country and banana pseudo stem is mostly a waste product. Farmers have to make investment to clear the field for the next crop. The outer sheath of banana pseudo stem when processed for rope making would fetch about 2.4 lakh metre of banana sheath rope valued at Rs. 1.0 lakh ha-1. It is a win-win situation for all the persons in the supply chain. Flow chart of mechanization package for rope making from outer sheath of banana pseudo stem Sequence in rope making operation Equipment for splitting the outer sheath of banana pseudostem Final samples 115 3.3.2. Value added products from banana central core About 12,000 to 15,000 kg of edible central cores can be extracted from one hectare of banana crop. It is rich in digestible fibres, iron, vitamins B3 and B5. It can also be blended with any other fruit pulp. Banana central core is cut into small pieces and served in cooked form is traditional culinary dishes in south Indian homes. The brief details of products made out of central core of banana stem are given below. Pickle: The product is prepared by making slices of the central core of banana stem and by adding spices and preservatives to it. The product can be stored up to a period of six months and is rich in fibre. Juice: Juice is extracted from the central core of banana stem, which is having property of dissolving kidney stone. It can be stored safely up to six months. Powder and core soup: It is one of commercial products made out of central core of banana stem. The central core powder is used as a source of carbohydrate and fibre. Soup is used as an appetizer and taken before any meal to aid in digestion. Candy: The core part of banana stem is used for preparing candy, which is sweet in taste and rich is fibre. It can be stored safely for three months. The mechanization package for minimal processing of banana central core has been developed by ICAR-CIAE Bhopal in collaboration with lCAR-NRC for Banana, Trichy. It consists of slicer, dicer, fibre remover, surface water remover, juicer/grinder and juice squeezer. By using this package of equipment, one can save time and cost up to 65% and labour by 70% for minimal processing of banana central core. The banana central core which is wasted mostly can be converted into value added products for human consumption, thus helping in generating additional revenue to banana farmers/entrepreneurs/ processors. Mechanization package for minimal processing and juice extraction from banana central core. Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts 1. Harvested banana field 2. Cross section of banana pseudostem 3. Separation of central core from Pseudo stem 7. Banana central core juice 6. Banana central core juice extractor 4. Dicing and slicing unit- seperate unit 5. Banana central core slicing and dicing unit 6. Diced Banana central core fibre removing equipment 8. Diced minimally processed banana central core sample 7.