 The length of the pachawa is kept as per wind direction, southwest to northeast, owing to blowing of wind in this direction during summer. Thus pachawa is not bent and sand dunes not accumulate adjoining pachawa. 4. Farmers put pearlmillet stubbles on the layer of grass up to the height of 12-15 feet in cris-cross manner. The first layer of pearlmillet stubbles is kept according to width, and second layer is made from another direction. Each layer of 1.5-2 feet is given up to a height of 12-15 feet. In the centre either pearlmillet ears or guar fodder etc. are filled to maintain proper balance. After attending the desired height, gradually the width is reduced. So that at top pachawa becomes tapering. 5. Before finishing the height of 25 feet, width is again increased so that in future rain water may not damage the structure. 6. At the top pachawa is thatched while keeping pearlmillet stubbles at a slope. The topmost layer of local bushes sinia (Crotoleria bruhia) is kept to enable rain water to flow to the ground. 7. The top of the pachawa is made tight with strong strings cross-wise Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3475 Local food material for buffaloes and poultry 3476 Treatment of madness in cows by using lalpushpavali to prevent damage from high wind and storms. 8. Finally Zigiphus rotendifolia thorns are put at top, so that birds may not damage it. Keywords: fodder storage, pachawa, pearlmillet stubbles When there is scarcity of fodder in village Nagainga of district Ukhrul, the cattle owners manage to feed local fodders to their animals. Locally available chichi (Allophylus cobbe) and latchangrong (Blurnea balsamifera) colleted by the women, are cut into small pieces and conserved. During scarcity these plant materials are mixed in different ratios with rice and local millets to feed the animals and birds. For poultry, a plant called haremhan (Breynia stipularis) is used. About 65-70% inhabitants have been using this practice since age-old time. Keywords: fodder, chichi, latchangrong, haremhan, poultry Sometimes animals behave in a manner to give an impression that they have gone mad. To overcome it, cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat) use leaves of lalpushpavali (Tribulus zeylanicus). It grows on sandy loam soil. Extract of about I kg leaves is taken out by crushing after adding water. Total quantity of leaf extract and water is made up to 500 ml and given to needy animal thrice a day and continued up to one month. Sometimes it is extended up to 2-3 months depending upon the severity of the case. This practice is in vogue since time immemorial. Keywords: lalpushpavali, madness Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K.