 Bark dark-brown, often longitudinally cracked, exfoliating in woody scales; leaves ovate or elliptic with a pair of large glands at the top of the petiole; flowers yellowish white, in terminal spikes; drupes ellipsoidal, obovoid or ovoid, yellow to orange-brown, sometimes tinged with red or black and hard when ripe, 3-5 cm long, become 5-ribbed on drying; seeds hard, pale yellow. It is found in the sub-Himalayan tracts ascending up to an altitude of 1,500 m in the Himalayas. Branch Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Beheda: A handsome tree, with character- istic bark, attaining a height up to 40 m and a girth of 1.8-3.0 m, found in deciduous forests throughout the greater part of India, but not in the arid regions. Stems straight, frequently buttressed when large; leaves broadly elliptic, clustered towards the end of branches; flowers in solitary, simple, axillary spikes, fruits globular, 1.3-2.0 cm in diameter, obscurely 5-angled. Ajwain: An erect, viscidly hairy, foetid annual or biennial, up to 5 ft high, occurring in western Himalayas from Kashmir to Kumaon, at altitudes of 5,000 to 12,000 ft. Leaves radical and cauline, coarsely dentate to pinnately lobed; flowers yellowish green, sessile or sub-sessile, in terminal scorpioidal cymes; pyxidium, 0.5 in. diameter; seeds numerous, minute, oval or slightly kidney-shaped, 1.5 mm long, brown, marked with fine but conspicuous reticulations. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages 1479 To protect cattle and goat from loose motion Volume 2, page 355 Indian hemp Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi, & Marathi: bhang, charas, ganja; Kannada: bangi; Malayalam: kanchanchotti; Oriya: ganjaie; Punjabi: bhang; Sanskrit: bhanga, vijaya; Tamil: bhangi, ganja; Telugu: ganjai, kalpam-chettu. English name Botanical name Active ingredients Soft hemp, true hemp Cannabis sativa Linn. Cannabis is cultivated for its narcotic resin, fibre and seed. But the plants cultivated for fibre and seed are not used simultaneously for extracting the narcotic resin. The hilly areas are more suitable for the cultivation of the fibre and seed crop, whereas the arid areas are ideal for the crop yielding the narcotic drugs. The seeds from the seed crop are sent to the areas where the crop is grown for the drugs. Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications A strong-smelling annual of variable height (1-5 m) occurring wild throughout the western Himalayas, and abundantly found as an escape throughout the greater part of India. It is cultivated in the warm valleys of the Himalayas in Himachal Pradesh and in the adjoining plains from Kashmir eastwards to Assam. It is also grown in Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh and Orissa. Some wild growth is reported from Tamil Nadu, Rajasthan, Bihar and Kerala.