 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 279 Ethnoveterinary recipes of Bhindi The essential oil, pectins and starch of bhindi (Abelmoschus esculentus) plant and its fruits are used as emollient, demulcent, diuretic. The root is crushed and its juice is fed to animals with bone fractures and also used in decreased milk flow. Parabia et al. (2000) 280 Coccinia indica; Syn. Cephalandra indica medicinal uses Root, leaf, stembark of katduriki-bel (Coccinia indica) contain alkaloids, amylase, resin, starch, alkaloid, sugar, gum, glucokenin and are used as antispasmodic, expectorant for diabetes, eruption of skin, gonorrhoea, ringworm, psoriasis and itch. Parabia et al. (2000) 281 Clerodendron phlomides, C.multiflorum- medicinal uses Plant, root, leafjuice of urni (Clerodendron phlomides) contain scutellarcin, pectolinargenin are used as demulcent, convalscent of measles, neglected syphilitic complaints, obesity, diarrhoea, worms. Parabia et al. (2000) 282 Citrus medica var.acida medicinal uses Fruit of maphal (Citrus medica) is aromatic, stomachic, tonic, antiscorbutic, distilled water of fruit is sedative, juice refrigerant, astringent, digestive used in jaundice, biliousness and remittant fevers, rind, dysentery. Parabia et al. (2000) 283 Medicinal importance of Ficus carica Milky juice from fresh fruit of anjir (Ficus carica) has protease, aminoacid, tyrosine, enzymes, cravin, lipase, caotin, leaf, bitter substance ficusin, bergaptene, latex, ficin, globulin; used as demulcent, aperient, emollient, nutrient, acrid, worms. Parabia et al. (2000) 284 Ethnomedicinal importance of spanish pepper (Capsicum annum) Useful parts are fruits and resin which contain capsicin, capsaisin, selanine, volatile oil and fatty acids. Fruit acts as stomachic, rubifacient, desicant, carminative, stimulant and local irritant; cures sore throat. Resin is used for massaging rheumatic joints and inflammation. Parabia et al. (2000) 285 Medicinal uses of Ficus bengalensis Stembark, milky juice, young bunds, aerial roots of vad (Ficus bengalensis) contain tannin, wax, caouhouc, oil, albuminiods, fibre are used in pains, rheumatism, lumbago, sores, ulcers, toothache, dysentery, diarrhoea, diabetes, abscess, gonorrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 231 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 286 Medicinal uses of Ferula narthex: F.alliaceae, F.asafoetida F.foetida, F.scorodosona Aromatic gum resin of hingra (Ferula narthex) obtained by incision from root has volatile oil, allyl persulphide and two terpenes, malic acid, acetic acid, formic acid, valerainic acid and is used as stimulant, antispasmodic, expectorant and slightly laxative and carminative used in bloats for expelling gas from rumen, also used as flavouring agent, valuable in nervous disorder, flatulent colic and spasmodic afflictions of the bowl. Parabia et al.