0) was recorded with T1 in both the season of bending (Table 2). Number of fruits/shootlet at fruit set stage The maximum fruits per shootlet at fruit set stage were higher in autumn season of bending (6.0) than in summer bending (4.1). Other treatments also showed similar trend of variation (Table 2). Number of fruits/branch at fruit set stage The maximum fruits per branch at fruit set stage (48.0) was observed in autumn season of bending than summer bending (29.0). T2 (complete removal of leaves and decapitation) also recorded increase in fruit set during autumn season. The increment of fruit set in autumn season was probably due to more number of shootlets with flower buds as well as suitable environmental condition during flowering reduced fruit drop at fruit set stage (Table 2).The fruits of summer season of bending in year 2004 are presently in pre-harvest stage as a result the parameters like number of fruits retained at harvest per branch, number of fruits per plant at harvest and average weight of fruits (g/fruit) could not be incorporated, for which the findings of autumn season, 2003 were given. Number of fruits retained up to harvest per branch T1 (bending of branch) produced maximum number of fruits per branch at harvest (13.5) whereas T2 and T3 (control) recorded 6.3 and 2.4 fruits/branch at harvest respectively during autumn season 2003 (Table 2). Number of fruits/plant at harvest Maximum number of fruits per plant at harvest was recorded T1, (bending of branch) whereas T2 and T3 produced 94.5 and 36.0 fruits per plant at harvest during autumn season, 2003 (Table 2). Average weight of fruit (g/fruit) T1 (bending of branch) produced highest fruit weight of 300.0 g/fruit in 2003 followed by T2 and T3 with 294.0 and 272.0 g/fruit respectively during autumn season (Table 2). Biochemical analysis of leaf and bark The leaves were collected from the new shoots in their different growth stages from the treated and control plants respectively. The barks were collected from the lateral branches of guava from which the new shoots were emerged. The biochemical parameters like total chlorophyll, chlorophyll a, chlorophyll b, moisture, total soluble protein, total soluble sugar, total free amino acids, reducing sugar, non-reducing sugar, starch, lipid, tryptophan, proline, total phenol content and the enzyme activity like peroxidase, catalase, polyphenol oxidase in leaves and barks were studied in the laboratory at different stages Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS of shoot development. The experiment had five treatments, viz T0 (control), T1 (bending of branches), T2 (one leaf pair pruning), T3 (10 cm pruning) and T4 (20 cm pruning) at three different times, viz. (i) old leaves and barks before any treatments, (ii) S1, new tender leaves at the time of shoot initiation after treatments possessing 2 leaf pairs (16 to 19 days after treatments), (iii) S2, before flower initiation from the new shoots (41 to 52 days after treatments).