 There are two basic principles of SFMI: • Principle of root development (proper nourishment and sufficient space around the plant for better root growth and uptake of nutrients and moisture) • Principle of intensive care (careful management of soil, agronomic practices in each stage of plant growth) SFMI aims at establishment of young and healthy seedlings for optimum root and shoot growth, reduction in crop population by wider sowing/transplanting for effective utilization of space, light, nutrients and water, etc., improvement of soil health through enriching organic matter, aeration as well as biological environment, use of water for moistening the soil without creating hypoxic condition. All these agronomic practices can improve crop yield and quality. Scenario In south India, SFMI is popular as Guli ragi (hole-planted finger millet) method where 12 days old young finger millet seedlings are transplanted @2 seedlings/hill at 45 cm × 45 cm. Adequate compost/ manure is applied to each hole prior to transplanting. After 15–45 days after transplanting, light weight board (Koradu/wooden plank) is dragged over them in different directions for bending (stressing) the plants resulting in more growth of roots and tillers from meristematic tissues, resulting in high crop growth. Additionally, ox-drawn implement (Yade Kunte and/or hand operated cycle weeder) is used to loosen or aerate the soil several times and to cut the weed roots within 3–5 cm soil depth as well as organic manure is applied for higher tillering, growth and productivity. This Guli ragi method has produced relatively higher yield (4.5–5 t/ha) over conventional method (1.25– 2.5 t/ha, maximum 3.75 t/ha). In Andhra Pradesh, this method has been introduced by Agricultural Technology Management Agency (ATMA), Andhra Pradesh and Govt. of Agriculture, India and is now clubbed with zero budget natural farming principles (use of desi ragi cultivars, use of Ghanajeevamruth during land preparation, transplanting of 18–25 days old seedlings after treating with Beejamruth, application of NSKE/Agniastra as plant protection Package of practices of SFMI System of finger millet intensification Source: http://genecampaign.org/wp- content/uploads/2015/03/Annexure-13.- System-of-Millet-Intensification.pdf Indian Farming 37 May 2023 measure etc.) and is also being implemented in tribal areas. This method has also been tried in Jharkhand, Orissa and Chhattisgarh. In Jharkhand, due to the initiative taken by non-governmental organization named Professional Assistance for Development Action (NGO PRADAN), farmers are practicing SFMI since 2005 and have obtained 3 times yield than conventional broadcasting and obtained 60% increase in economic profitability due to enhanced soil health and root system of finger millet leading to more and more adoption by around 2000 farmers in these eastern states.