 Women participation in India gradually increased from 19.67 to 29.56% from 1981-2021 in agriculture and allied sector activities. Because of the migration of male farmers towards cities for alternative source of income generation, the agriculture sector is primarily taken care of by the female counterpart leading to disproportionate concentration of women in agriculture. This phenomenon was termed as ‘feminization of agriculture’ by Economic Survey, 2017- 18. Generally their work can be categorized as labour intensive (paid labour), cultivator and farm manger (supervisor) depending on the socio-economic status of their family. The work performed by them ranges from sowing, transplanting, weeding, irrigation, fertilizer application, nursery management, harvesting, storage, marketing etc. In case of dairy, all the work related to raising of dairy animals eg. feeding, watering, milking, cleaning of animal and sheds, preparation of dung cake, collection of farmyard manure, fodder collection etc. generally performed by them. In case of poultry farming, women participation at household level is central. It is one of the major sources of rural economy. The inestimable role played by women in fisheries is generally underestimated. According to research papers, in the total population of active fishers, 30% are fisherwomen. The contributions of the fisherwomen enter every aspect of pre-and post-harvest handling, Indian Farming 26 March 2024 Indian Farming 27 March 2024 preservation, processing, marketing and provide a vital link between producers and consumers. They are also actively involved in the fish auction, buying fish and later take it to the market for sale. Role in food and livelihood security Globally, there is pragmatic evidence that women have a decisive position in ensuring food security, livelihood security and preserving local agro-biodiversity. Rural women are responsible for the integrated management and use of diverse natural resources to meet the daily household needs. UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon in his message during celebration of International Day of Rural Women said that 'rural women are farmers and farm workers, horticulturists and market sellers, entrepreneurs and community leaders. Rural women are the backbone of sustainable livelihoods and provide food security for their families and communities.' Livestock is the primary livelihood activity used to meet household food needs as well as supplement farm incomes. Studies have revealed rural women earn extra income from the sale of milk and animals and utilize the money for household works. The rural women rear livestock as an insurance against economic uncertainty. There is practice of rearing small ruminants by rural women and selling them during festive season to earn money. Every woman in the family chooses her goat/ sheep and nurtures them till the market age.