  Agribusiness and supply chains COVID-19 is disturbing a few exercises in agribusiness and supply chains. Fundamental reports show that the non-accessibility of transient work is interfering with some gathering exercises, especially in northwest India where wheat and heartbeats are being collected. There are interruptions in supply chains due to transportation issues and different issues. Costs have declined for wheat, vegetables, and different yields, yet buyers are regularly paying more. Media reports show that the conclusion of inns, cafés, sweet shops, and coffeehouses during the lockdown is as of now discouraging milk deals. In the interim, poultry ranchers have been severely hit because of falsehood, especially via web-based networking media, that chicken are the bearers of COVID-19. VI. Here are a few measures are required to keep the agrarian area and supply chains working easily: The administration has effectively given lockdown rules that excluded ranch activities and supply chains. Be that as it may, execution issues prompting work deficiencies and falling costs ought to be redressed. Keeping supply chains working great is significant to nourishment security. It ought to be noticed that 2 to 3 million passing’s in the Bengal starvation of 1943 were because of nourishment supply disturbances—not an absence of nourishment accessibility. Ranch populaces must be shielded from the corona virus to the degree conceivable by testing and rehearsing social separating. The Farmers are more likely than not preceded with access to business sectors. This can be a blend of private markets and government obtainment. Small growers and dairy ranchers need more focused on help, as their pandemic-related info supply and market-get to issues are dire. Ranchers and farming laborers ought to be remembered for the administration's help bundle and any social assurance programs tending to the emergency. As lockdown measures have expanded, request has ascended for home conveyance of staple goods and E-trade. This pattern ought to be empowered and advanced. The administration ought to advance exchange by maintaining a strategic distance from trade bans and import limitations. VII. Utilizing social wellbeing nets as a scaffold between wellbeing stun and financial stun The lockdown has interfered with practically all financial movements Gauges by the Center for Monitoring Indian Economy show that joblessness shot up from 8.4% in mid-March to 23% in the principal seven day stretch of April. In urban zones, joblessness took off to 30.9% ISSN NO: 0776-3808 http://aegaeum.com/ Page No: 485 AEGAEUM JOURNAL Volume 8, Issue 5, 2020 as of April 5. The shutdown will cause untold hopelessness for casual laborers and poor people, who have dubious existences confronting yearning and ailing health. The most ideal approach to address this earnest need is to utilize social security nets widely to settle their lives with nourishment and money.