 Progeny testing in Murrah buffalo was carried out at six participating institutional/SVU centres. The weighted average of 305 days lactation milk yield in Murrah buffalo revealed an overall 58.98% improvement since inception of the project. Elite herds of Jaffarabadi, Surti, Bhadawari and Nili Ravi breeds of buffaloes were established in their respective breeding tracts, and semen freezing laboratories were also established there. Mega Sheep Seed Project has cooperating units for Mandya, Mecheri, Sonadi and Malpura sheep for improvement of farmers’ flocks. CSN1S1 polymorphic pattern provides an opportunity to select and bred goats for producing milk with desired protein content. AICRP on Goat Improvement has bagged Breed Survivor Recognition for Malabari, Jamunapari and Surti goat breeds. Male lines, viz. PD-1 (Vanaraja male line) and PD-6 (Gramapriya male line) and female lines, viz. PD-2 (Vanaraja female line) and PD-3 (Brown egg layer line) were maintained for use in developing rural chicken varieties. The egg production and egg mass at 40 weeks of age increased considerably from the last generation. Layer lines (IWH, IWI, IWK, IWD, IWF and control) showed increase in egg production in all the selected lines over the previous generation. Under AICRP on Poultry Breeding, all the 12 centres were working on the development and propagation of location specific chicken varieties. Under Poultry Seed Project, 12 centres distributed 647,194 birds of improved chicken varieties to the farmers in their respective regions/states during the reported period. Breeding protocol was developed for marine ornamental shrimps, Ancylocaris brevicarpalis, Gnathophyllum americanum and Stenopus hispidus from Lakshadweep Islands, while the larval rearing is in progress. Broodstock developement for Thor hainanensis and Lysmata amboinensis is in progress. Marine ornamental fish Cloudy Damsel, Dascyllus carneus and coldwater ornamental fish species Garra gotyla and Garra annandalei, were successfully bred from wild- caught broodstock. The endemic catfish species from Western Ghats, viz. Hemibagrus punctatus (Critically endangered) and Clarias dussumieri (Near threatened) were bred with wild collected broodstock. Three-tier cage farming of seabass in mangrove regions of Sindhudurg, Maharashtra by SHGs generated total revenue of ` 12 lakh from 40 cages of 4×4×2 m each in 8 months. For restoring fisheries diversity of River Ganga, large-scale ranching of Indian major carp fingerlings produced by induced breeding of wild broodstocks collected from river Ganga, was undertaken. Hilsa ranching station was established at Farakka, West Bengal for stock enhancement of Hilsa in Ganga. Crop management: A horticulture crop-based DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 4 OVERVIEW integrated farming system with a net income of ` 2.4 lakh/acre/year was developed.