 India’s achievement is attributed to its abundant resource potential, investment in research & development, and human capital in transforming the fisheries sector. The fisheries sector at present has evolved through decades of developments, enhancing the fields of research, education and extension. Historical background Early studies, investigations and findings by researchers such as James Russel (1785-89), Dr Buchanan Hamilton and Col. Alcock, starting of the Indian Marine Survey Station in 1875 and the launching of the survey ship ‘Investigator’, marked the beginning of fisheries in India. yy Indian Fisheries Act, 1897 The Government of India (GOI) assigned Dr Francis Day to investigate the freshwater resources of South India, and then of India and Burma as a whole. Dr Day's pioneering efforts resulted in legislative measures to conserve fisheries. In light of that, the Indian Fisheries Act (Act IV of 1897) was passed for the entire country, making dynamiting, and poisoning of waters for the purpose of killing fish illegal. The enactment of this Act was a significant milestone in the history of Fisheries of India. OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 55 yy Establishment of Madras Fisheries Department The Madras Presidency was the first in India to establish a Bureau of Fisheries in 1907, following Sir F. Nicholson's proposals. In 1908, Sir Nicholson was appointed Honorary Director of the Bureau of Fisheries. Mr Henry Wilson, a pisciculturist and Mr James Homell, a marine biologist, were appointed to assist him. The above three officers and their successors worked hard to develop fisheries in all fields, and the Madras Fisheries Department became the country's forerunner in fisheries development. — — Fish preservation methods such as fish curing yards were started by the Department during 1924. — — Extensive surveys, fishing experiments and exploratory fishing conducted by the Department led to the discovery of fishing and trawling grounds. — — Special unit in the Department was organised in 1945, to design and build small motorised boats. — — Fishing demonstrations with long lines, surface gill netting and boat seines were held at specific centres. Development of fisheries extension The Credit Cooperative Societies Act of 1904 marked the commencement of the cooperative movement in India. At Malpe in South Kanara, the first fishermen's cooperative society was established in 1913. It was thought that cooperatives could be an effective instrument for improving fishing communities. The Madras Government outlined the department's principal responsibility in the development of the fishing community in 1918 and ordered that the spread of cooperative methods among fishermen be sped up. The officers of the Fisheries Department were given the authority to form fishermen cooperative societies and to audit the books in recognition of the fact that fisheries officers were in the best position to oversee the cooperative work among fishermen.