 The plant protein is used in protein supplements, texturized vegetable proteins, imitation dairy products, sea food products, beverage industry, infant food formulations, weaning food formulations, bakery products, and meat analogues for various purposes. Fat-free flavoured makhana: Demand of flavoured makhana is increasing in the export and domestic market continuously. In the conventional processing method to produce flavoured popped makhana, the fat/oil use is as high as 30%. Such high oil content is not desirable for better shelf life and consumption by obese and developed. The activated carbon is obtained from walnut shell and the surface area of this walnut based activated carbon is more than the coconut based activated carbon. The ash content of walnut based activated carbon is 1.20–1.26%, which is lower than the activated carbon developed from coconut based activated carbon which is 2–3%. Natural dye (Juglone) extracted from walnut hull: Juglone, a natural dye was extracted from Walnut hulls. Test trials were conducted on Pashmina wool in combination with different mordants. The results are excellent. Activated carbon Wallnut shell health conscious people. ICAR-CIPHET developed a process for preparation of fat/oil free flavoured makhana, particularly for the health conscious consumers. The developed process comprises a formulation of edible spices and permitted flavouring materials, process of applying formulation to the popped makhana and method of mixing. Shelf-life is as high as popped makhana itself. Activated carbon from walnut hull: The process of making activated carbon from walnut shell/hull was Wallnut hull Juglone extract from wallnut Testing kit for detection of adulterants in selected spices: Among many commercial crops sown in India, spices occupy an important place. They are known for their fine quality and flavour and Indian cooking is incomplete without the use of spices. The demand for these items has gone up considerably in the international market also. Turmeric, red chillies, black pepper, coriander, etc., are a few important spices grown and immensely consumed in India. The spices which are known for their health promoting qualities Rose petal jam Rose, termed as ‘Queen of flowers’, finds its application in food products, medicinal and cosmetic industry. It is a highly nutritive flower with vitamin-C, carote- noids, phenolic components, anthocyanidin, and some minerals. Value-added products of rose are rich in antioxidants, used as astringent, tonic, mild laxative, anti-bacterial agent, treatment of sore throat, enlarged tonsils, cardiac troubles, eye disease, gall stones, anti-HIV, anti- bacterial, and hypnotic activities. Rose petal jam and gulkand is usually used synonymously. However, the manufacturing process of gulkand is entirely different from the conventional jam preparation process. In true sense, the rose petal jam is not yet available in the Indian market.