 HCA lactone, Cambogic acid, mangostin, garcinol, fukugicid, and amentoflavone, malic acid, citric acid and tartaric acid Seed Isoxanthochymol, camboginol, palmitic acid, stearic acid, oleic acid, linoleic acid Leaf D-Leucine, isogarcinol, xanthochymol, isoxanthochymol Bark Polyprenylated acylphloroglucinol derivative, Euxanthone (1,7-dihydroxy xanthone), volkensiflavone and morelloflavone, xanthochymol, isoxanthochymol, camboginol Malabar tamarind Fruit Guttiferones - K, I, J, M and N; oxy-guttiferones M Leaf Cambogic acid, mangostin, garcinol, fukugicide, GB-1 and amentoflavone Bark Rheediaxanthone, guttiferone E and isogarcinol Root Garbogiol, Morelloflavone, Dihydromorelloflavone, Isomorellic acid Yellow mangosteen Fruit Xanthones, biflavonoids and benzophenones, xanthones,benzophenones, flavonoids, depsidones and isocoumarins. Xanthochymol, isoxanthochymol, cambogin, volkensiflavone, morelloflavone, biflavones GB-1 and GB-1a, maclurin, 1,5-dihydroxyxanthone and 1,7-dihydroxyxanthone Table 3. Processed products from Garcinia species Fruit Products Mangosteen Jam, Squash, Jelly, canning Kokum Squash, Dried rind, Rind powder, Seed butter, Gamboges Malabar Tamarind Dried rind, Rind powder, Seed butter, Gamboges Yellow mangosteen Jam, Chutney, Dried rind, Gamboges November–December 2021 9 For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1618 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. Yellow mangosteen grows well under humid tropical and subtropical climatic conditions. The plant may be propagated by seed, cutting, grafting and root suckers. Planting in done at 6 × 6 m distance. The seedlings start flowering after 7 to 8 years of planting. The flowering takes places in the month of May and continue up to August-September. The fruit matures in the months of November-March.