 Sandwich-ELISA was standardized using chicken anti-rlx peptide Ab as capture Ab and rabbit anti-prorlx Ab as detection Ab. The standardized protocol was used to evaluate the serum response of pregnant and non-pregnant. The sandwich-ELISA showed 90% specificity and 66% sensitivity. Diagnostics for brucellosis: A visual loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) was standardized for the detection of Brucella in vaginal swabs, preputial swabs and milk. This technique was highly sensitive and can detect Brucella DNA as low as 10 femtogram. The diagnostic capability of detection of brucellosis in terms of limit of detection (LOD) assay is 3 × 10 cfu/ml. This test has a specificity of 98% compared to iELISA and SAT. Standardization of OMP31-TAQMAN® PROBE based real-time PCR assay: An assay was devised by spiking known culture of Brucella melitensis in vaginal washings and milk samples, with CFU/ml starting from 1011 to 10 dilution. For vaginal washings, the Y intercept is 54.310 and the efficiency was calculated as 93.6% based on the slope (S) value of -3.485, while the regression coefficient of the test is 0.996. On the other side, the B. melitensis spiked milk showed a regression coefficient of 0.980, slope of -1.52 and y-intercept of 35.60. Specificity tests for the Omp31 gene Taqman® probe based real-time assay: The Omp31 gene Taqman® probe based real-time assay was standardized for detection of B. melitensis in clinical samples. The test was devised by incorporating the DNA of several related and unrelated pathogens. The samples were given a positive call by the machine based on the magnitude of relative fluorescence units (RFU) with higher than the cut-off value. Among various suspected clinical samples tested, many were positive owing to the higher sensitivity of the test. The other unrelated bacteria were clearly ruled out with a very low RFU call below the cut-off. The related genus, viz. Brucella abortus showed slightly higher RFU magnitude, but still it was well below the machine calculated RFU cut-off. Vaccine development and delivery Newcastle disease: A novel reverse genetics system involving modified strain F of Newcastle disease virus (NDV) and incorporating VP2 gene of a very virulent strain of infectious bursal disease virus (IBDV) was developed. The rescued recombinant virus, generated from a lentogenic vaccine strain, is being used as a vaccine in young chicks. The recombinant virus was safe in chicks. Caecal coccidiosis: Immunization of chickens with recombinant EtAMA1, EtMIC3-MAR1b and EtMIC3- MAR1c along with TiterMax gold adjuvant given intramuscularly followed by homologous challenge with 10,000 sporulated oocysts of Eimeria tenella resulted in oocyst reduction of 57.22%, 24.93% and 53.0%, respectively. The anticoccidial index of rMAR1c, rAMA1 and rMAR1b immunized groups were 161, 153 and 141, respectively. Both CMI as well as humoral immune response were induced in immunized chickens.