 Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh C/o Dr C B Singh, Dean, College of Agriculture, JNKVV, Adhartal, Jabalpur (Madhya Pradesh) 482 004  Keywords: aak leaves, afra, bread 2533 Use of jaggery, garlic and ginger mixed with water for treatment of bloat Farmers of Ilaiyathangudi village of TamilNadu use a mixture of jaggery, garlic and ginger since 10 years to control bloat in animals. About 100 g jaggery, 50 g garlic and 50 g ginger are mixed. The mixture is ground by domestic grinder and dried in the sun. Afterwards 500 ml water is mixed to it and fed orally to the animals suffering from bloat. Keywords: jaggery, garlic, ginger, bloat Shri K. Ramaraj Ilaiyathangudi, Tiruppathur, Sivagangai (Tamil Nadu) 2545 Cure for aafara by using mustard oil When animals suffer from aafara (flatulence/ tympany), it causes constipation, improper rumination, stop feeding and results in low milk production in cows and buffalos. For cure of aafara, farmers of Rampur- Bajheda village in Bulandshahr district of Uttar Pradesh use mustard oil. About 250 g raw mustard oil is given to the animal with the help of bamboo pipe. This will result in loose motion. This treatment improves aafara and increases milk production. Keywords: aafara, constipation, loose motion, milk yield Dr Tungveer Singh D-37, Medical College Campus, Meerut (Uttar Pradesh) 250 004 2603 Use of wheat soup for curing bloat (afara) in animals Bloat occurs in animals because of accumulation of gases in the stomach. Farmers of Badala area of Kathua district of Jammu and Kashmir, usually boil the wheat grains in a utensil and when one fourth water remains it is given to the ailing animals as asoup for curing bloat. Boiled wheat grains (kungnian) are also fed to animals and this results in enhancement of milk production. Keywords: bloat, wheat soup, milk production Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2556 Use of draink (Melia azedirach) leaves for curing bloat in animals Bloat is common in animals and it occurs because of excessive accumulation of gases in the stomach. Draink leaves, which is popularly available in the entire sub-tropical area of Jammu region is used for curing bloat in animals. Draink leaves, mixed with jaggery and flour, are fed to the animals once a day for two days continuously. This practice is Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report common in the Jarafpain area of Kathua district (Jammu and Kashmir). Keywords: draink leaves, bloat, excessive accumulation of gases from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.