 provision of Visiting/Adjunct Faculty in specialized areas, identification of more areas for support under Niche Area of Excellence, development of need based Experiential Learning Units for hands-on training to students, mobilizing youths towards agriculture, creating few other Centers of Advance Studies, inter-institutional faculty 5 and students exchange are some of the areas which need adequate attention at university level. (Action: all VCs) Agenda 2: Changing Perspectives in Agricultural Extension: Krishi Vigyan Kendra—A Knowledge and Resource Centre Dr K.D. Kokate, DDG (Agril. Extn), ICAR mentioned that Agricultural Knowledge Management is gaining centre stage of agricultural extension system to avail the benefits of information revolution. We should have thorough understanding of emerging extension models both at national and international levels. It may be in the form of Farmer led extension, market- led extension, ICT-enabled extension, public–private partnership. Extension research should focus on refining and up-scaling these emerging models, scaling up government agricultural development programs, building strategies for greater adoption of frontier technologies like GM (biotechnology) and nano-technology. He added that for KVKs to be effective knowledge and resources centres, KRCTO model can be adopted. The model includes—Knowledge: Farming systems and productions systems, agricultural technology, markets (demand and prices) and policy; Resources: Infrastructure to provide necessary Technological backstopping and capacity building; Competency: Evaluating technologies, processing and value addition, weather based agro advisories, market intelligence and agro-logistics; Technology Products: Critical technology products, and problem solving consultancy is to be provided; Organizing farmers: To exchange information, facilitating learning from experience and support in decision making. To efficiently play the role of knowledge and resource centres, KVKs need to be strengthened by increased technological backstopping by ICAR and SAUs. There is also a need for extension research by ICAR research institutes and SAUs to suggest innovative approaches and methodologies to KVKs for critical assessment of location specific technologies, frontline demonstrations, and effective capacity building of stakeholders, vocational training, and entrepreneurship development and for up-scaling successful experiences. (Action: all VCs/KVKs/Zonal Coordinators) 6 Agenda 3: NAIP Activities ND, NAIP presented the agenda and reviewed the progress so far in all four components of NAIP. He mentioned that procurement (equipments, works etc) guidelines followed by NARS are different from Govt. of India.