 Twenty-two thousand (22,000) enumerators, 8,000+ supervisors and 730 district nodal officers, surveyed, 33,000 commercial poultry farms, 752 slaughter houses for 56,000 villages/ urban wards with 80 lakhs households/enterprises. KISAN SARATHI (System of Agri-information Resources Auto-transmission and Technology Hub Interface): To implement an intelligent on-line platform for supporting agriculture, Kisan SARATHI is being implemented and strengthened in association with Digital India Corporation, Ministry of Electronic and Communication Technology (MEITy), Government of India. The services of Kisan Sarathi are available to all the States and UTs since June, 2022. This is an on call advisory services for farmers of India, where any farmer can call or record their query in his own language automatically directed to respective KVK/ATARI for query redressal. The queries are being responded in the same language by the concerned KVK either online or by call later on based on the recorder queries of the farmer. This platform supports multilingual messaging system where bulk or individual SMS can be sent to group of farmers based on the location of the crops they grow. This system provides the services through IVR based service on toll free number, i.e. 1800-123- 2175 and a short number 14,426 to the farmers of all states. Presently, services of Kisan SARATHI are being provided by more than 3,000 agriculture experts from 731 KVKs across the country to more than 52 lakhs registered farmers which covered more than 1.48 lakhs villages. Till now more than 1.20 lakh calls have been made by the farmers to Kisan SARATHI, in which most of the calls have been resolved. Agricultural advisories have also been sent from time to time to the farmers through KVKs from Kisan SARATHI and so far more than 2.5 crore agricultural advisories have been sent through SMS. KVK portal (Krishi Vigyan Kendra Knowledge Network): The portal has been strengthened by adding new functionality to add information on yield gap index and to view state and district wise report in the portal. Functionality have also been developed to view the month wise progress report (MPR) for the particular year in the portal. The report is added under the MPR menu at the KVKs level. Information of new KVKs and event category have been added in the master database tables. Month-wise KVK KPIs data is submitted in DARPAN dashboard for the following KPIs: Farmers Training, Mobile Agro Advisories and Agriculture Extension Activities. The data is also being shared with Kisan SUVIDHA App. Experimental data repository: Developed the following information systems: (i) AICRP on Chickpea; (ii) AICRP on Pig and (iii) AICRP on Pigeon pea. Information System for AICRP on Weed Management was launched during XXX Annual Review Meeting of AICRP on Weed Management held at SKUAST-J Jammu during 26-27 May, 2023. Also strengthened the information system on ACIRP on Vegetable Crops by adding analysis module.