 It has been reported that even though the concentration of K+, Ca++ and Mg++ in the equilibrium varies, the activity coefficient remained essentially constant (Wang et al., 1988), which signifies that use of concentration ratio (CRe K) values may be just as suitable as ARe K values for Q/I relationships (Wang et al., 1988). Therefore, in this study we shall express our results in terms of CRe K instead of ARe K. The ± ΔK (quantity factor) was plotted on the ordinate axis against the CRe K (in­ tensity factor) on the abscissa axis to obtain the Q/I isotherm for each soil. Each point on the isotherm was the mean of three replicates and the isotherm experiment was conducted at room temperature of 25◦C. Different Q/I parameters were computed from the curve as explained below. Parameter Description ΔK (Change in K) It denotes the variation in the concentration of K added and recovered in the final equilibrium solution. Positive values indicate adsorption and negative values indicate desorption. KL (Labile K) It is the amount of K which is capable of undergoing ion exchange during the period of attaining equilibrium. The amount of ΔK at CRe K = 0 represents KL in Q/I adsorption isotherm curve. It characterizes the total pool of labile K in particular soil (K0 + KX). K0 (Planar K) or Non- specifically held K It is the portion of K which is present in the planar position of the soil surfaces (non-specific and outer position of crystal). It is the exchangeable K and is determined by extrapolating the linear portion of the Q/I curve to the point where CRe K = 0 (intercept of the linear part of the curve). KX (Specifically held K (KL- K0) It is representative of the K present on the specific exchange positions (on edges, wedges and projected portion of the crystal). It is also termed as specifically held K. The difference between planar K and labile K is specially held K. CRe 0 K(Equilibrium concentration ratio) It is the equilibrium concentration ratio of solution which is determined from the Q/I plot at ΔK= 0. It is also known as the intensity factor (Sparks and Liebhardt, 1981). PBCK (Potential buffering capacity) It represents the potential buffering capacity of the soil. The slope of ΔQ/ΔI i.e. gradient of the linear part of the Q/I plot generally represents PBCK of the soil. PBCK= ΔK/CRe K. It was estimated from least squares regression equations that described the linear part Q/I curve (Islam et al., 2017). It is generally a measure of the ability of the soil to maintain a particular activity ratio (intensity) in soil solution or to resist changes in soil solution K (Schindler et al., 2005; Bilias and Barbayiannis, 2020). (continued on next column) (continued) Parameter Description K+ potential of soil It was determined by multiplying K0 with PBCK i.e. K potential = K0 × PBCK (Dutta and Joshi, 1990; Panda and Patra, 2018).