 The accounts of the Society shall be audited by such person or persons as may be nominated for the purpose from time to time by the Government of India in consultation with the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India. 77. Matters having financial implications, which fall be- yond the powers of the Director-General shall be referred to the Member-Finance for advice. 78. There shall be at the Council's Headquarters a Fi- nancial Adviser who will be a whole-time employee of the Council. He shall be responsible for the bud- get of the Society, control of its finances, and in addition may be required to be responsible for the budget of the Society, control of its finances, and in addition may be required to be responsible for the proper maintenance of accounts and internal audit. The Financial Adviser shall advise the Direc- tor-General on all financial matters. The Director-General shall have the power to over-rule his advice by recording in writing reasons therefor. A report of all such cases shall be submitted to the Governing Body for information. 79. There shall be at the Council's Headquarters a Le- gal Adviser who will be a whole-time employee of the Council. He shall be responsible for advising the Society in all legal matters and for arranging contest/defence of legal proceedings instituted by or against the Society in any Court and for the vetting and drafting of all deeds, agreements and other legal documents. 80. An annual Report of the proceedings of the Society and all work undertaken during the year shall be prepared by the Governing body for the informa- tion of the members of the Society alongwith the Auditor's report thereon shall be placed before the Society at its Annual General Meeting and also on the table of the Houses of Parliament. 81. The Governing Body of the Society shall have a seal which shall be used only with its prior approval in cases where under any law it is necessary for the Society to affix it on a document or on an instru- ment or the Governing Body otherwise so decides such a document/instrument shall be signed by a 31 Alteration or extension of the purpose of the Society Alternation amendment of the Rules Change of name of the Society Membership of various bodies member of the Governing Body and the Secretarj or/such other officer or person authorised by th( Governing Body. 82.