 The length of its international border with Bangladesh is about 856 km (i.e. about 84 percent of its total border), while it has 53 km border with Assam and 109 km border with Mizoram. The social composition of the population of Tripura is diverse. Around one-third of the population belongs to the Scheduled Tribes. Agriculture in various forms has been the mainstay in the lives of people in Tripura. The primary sector (Agricultural) contributes about 64% of total employment in the state and about 48% of the State Domestic Product (SDP). A variety of Horticultural/ Plantation Crops are produced in Tripura like Pineapple, Orange, Cashew nut, Jackfruit, Coconut, Tea, Rubber, Forest Plantations etc. At present both conventional settled agriculture in the plains and Jhum system of cultivation in the hills are practiced, although earlier many tribal people depended more on Jhum system of cultivation, perhaps due to their life-pattern i.e. predominantly living in the hill areas. The Industry Sector has remained undeveloped so far, despite the vast potential. The secondary sector contributes only about 5% of total employment and about 7% of the total income (SDP) of the state at present. Tourism has been declared as an Industry in the state since 1987. Handicraft is emerging as a potential industry in Tripura. The Handloom Industry also plays an important role in rural Industry of Tripura. Tripura has a tropical climate and receives adequate rainfall during the monsoons. It has diverse range of topography, people, flora and fauna. A large part of the land is up-land / tilla land and hilly, with altitudes varying from 15 to 940 meters above sea level. The prominent hill ranges of the State are Jampui, Sakhantang, Longtharai, Atharamura, Baramura, Deotamura, Belkum and Kalajhari. Betling Shib (939 meters) in the Jampui Range is the highest peak of Tripura. Out of the total area almost 60% area is under forest and only 2.55 lakh ha area was under cultivation with a cropping intensity of 190% (Gross cropped area 4.86 lakh ha).Tripura has a total cultivable land of 2.73 lakh ha and irrigation potential of 1.40 lakh ha. The productivity of most of the crops grown in the state is lower than the national average, although the climate is favourable to cultivate most of the crops. 550 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 27.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints The farming at Tripura traditionally operates at semi-subsistence level mostly under rainfed conditions with lower inputs using simple tools resulting lower subsistence yields. Thus, farmers traditionally diversified his activities to different agricultural sectors including crops, horticulture, livestock, fish, and food gathering to ensure his food security. Thus, the major constrains and gaps in Tripura farming are as follows. Natural Resource Management: Rain water is wasted through runoff due to undulated land pattern causing serious problem of soil erosion.