   FARM IMPLEMENTS Code : 1434 Title of the ITK : Evaluation of kurur - farm implement for land levelling Description of the ITK : Kurur is cheap and simple equipment for land levelling. Rectangular wooden board tagged with iron chain on the front side (chain is pulled by drought animal) is slid over the ploughed unlevelled field. It carries the soil from upper side of the field to lower side and is levelled. The practice is followed in Asanbra village of Tethaitangar block in Simdega district (Jharkhand). About 20% increase in yield was noticed due to levelled soil and equal distribution of soil moisture. Name and address of the discloser: Shri Anjelus Kerketta, Village Aasanbera Katahar Toli, P.O. Latha Khaman, Block Thethaitanger, Simdega (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Aasanbera, Post Latha Khamhan, Block Thethaitanger, Simdega (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr. S. Choubey, Sr. Assistant Professor, Department of Agronomy, and Dr. R. P. Singh ‘Ratan’, Head, Department of Extension Education, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location Village Aasanbera, Post Latha Khamhan, Block Thethaitanger, Simdega (Jharkhand). PRA and field study In order to assess the performance of kurur in land levelling, participatory rural appraisal (PRA) was done. Kurur was compared with bullock drawn improved land leveller on the parameters of cost effectiveness, output per day, simplicity in use, availability of the implement, type of land where implement is used and choice of the farmers. In PRA exercise 20 respondents were involved. Experiment A field experiment was conducted in kharif season 2003 in Aasanbera village with three treatments, viz, T 1-Control (no levelling), T 2-Use of kurur for land levelling and T 3-Use of improved bullock drawn land leveller (patella). The experiment was laid out in randomized block design with 20 replications. Each treatment covered an area of 1,000 m2. Rice was taken as a test crop. Observations on land and soil physical parameters, yield and yield attributes of rice were recorded to compare the performance of the two levellers, tried in the experiment. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Data presented in Table 1 reveal that the improved leveller (patella) was rated to be superior in terms of output, whereas in terms of cost effectiveness, kurur was rated to be superior to the improved leveller. On other parameters also the kurur was rated to be superior than the improved leveller.  FARM IMPLEMENTS Table 2. Performance of land levellers on tillage characteristics and yield of rice N=20 Parameter Treatment Control Kurur Patella Area levelled (ha/day) – 0.052 0.07 Percentage slope – 0.024 0.032 maintained Distance of soil removal (m) – 13.2 11.25 Seed germination (%) 73.9 86.8 89.9 Plant population/m 2 34 37 38 Plant tillers/m 2 208 379 392 Yield (q/ha) 13.25 23.18 23.73 it was similar to (379/m 2) after use of indigenous land levelling implement kurur.