 Singh Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2829 Control of white grub in rice fields 2830 Use of rotten fish for controlling aphids in rice 2831 Pest management in paddy field by pumello fruits 2832 Control of hoppers in paddy by using mukkadaka decoction White grub is a major problem of rice grown in the hills. It causes severe losses in yield. To control white grub infestation in field, farmers use common salt. A solution is prepared by mixing 1 kg common salt in 5 litres water, which is sprayed in about 200m2 area after ploughing and before sowing. Keywords:white grub, common salt In Joynagar, Teliamura (West Tripura) generally there is incidence of aphids on paddy at flowering time. Farmers of this area dip the dried fish in water for 1 to 2 days. Afterwards this fish soaked water is filtered and some quantity of water is added and then it is sprayed in the field, which repels aphids from paddy field. Keywords: aphids, paddy, fish, spray Farmers of Pasighata area pluck pumello fruits (Citrus grandis), and cut its skin into small pieces. These pieces are fixed on bamboo sticks, which are inserted in paddy field. Insects are controlled by this practice. Keywords: pumello, paddy About 1 kg mukkadaka (Lasiosiphon eriocephalus, a common plant in the locality which is very bitter and found to cause burning even if a small extract falls on the skin) leaves are boiled in 10 litres water. This solution is filtered and diluted with water in 1:1 ratio and sprayed twice, once during nursery stage and second after transplantation of paddy. The decoction is also effective against crabs, which otherwise cut the plants at a very tender stage. Keywords: mukkadaka, hoppers, paddy Ms Mukta Bhakuni Sarkar-ki-aali, Hawalbag, dist. Almora (Uttaranchal) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh)731 102 Shri B. S. Dinesh, Bavikaisaru, Thirthanhalli, dist. Shimoga (Karnataka) Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code Title of the ITK No.