 Training programme for library staff: Technical staff associated with Library work in various ICAR Institutes/HQs were nominated by the Council for Training Programme organised by ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad on KOHA during 20–25 February 2020. A total of 19 technical staff of such category participated. Training programme for regular drivers: ICAR- CIAE, Bhopal organized a specialized training programme on Automobile Maintenance, Road Safety and Behavioural Skills in coordination with HRM Unit, ICAR HQs. In this programme, 92 Regular Drivers in Technical grade participated in 3 batches, out of which 90% got first time opportunity after joining ICAR service. Administrative staff: ICAR-Institutes/HQs organized 45 training programmes for Administrative including Finance stafff or improving their competency and 1,321 administrative staff of ICAR of various grades participated. Specialized training programme for caretakers/ guest house Incharges: A specialized training programme on Hospitality Management, in collaboration with Institute of Hotel Management, TRAINING AND CAPACITY BUILDING ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 187 Catering Technology and Applied Nutrition (IHMCT&AN), Hyderabad was organized by ICAR- NAARM, Hyderabad from 26 June to 2 July 2019. In the said training programme, 21 Caretakers/Incharges of Guest Houses of various ICAR-Institutes participated, out of which, about 91% attended first time such training programme after joining ICAR service. Training programme for stenographers: During the reporting period, ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad organized a training programme on Enhancing Efficiency and Behavioural Skills, in coordination with HRM Unit, ICAR HQs in 2 batches at ICAR-CPRI, Shimla and ICAR-NAARM, Hyderabad. In this programme, 51 stenographers in various grades participated, out of which 100% stenographers got training first time after joining ICAR services. Training programme for skilled support staff (SSS): Based on the identified training needs, ICAR- Institutes/HQs are organising trainings for skilled support staff after the creation of HRM Unit at ICAR HQs. During 2019–20, 27 training programmes were organized for skilled support staff by 27 ICAR- Institutes/HQs and 340 SSS were trained. Field/exposure visit of SSS: It was realized that there should be a provision of field/exposure visit of Skilled Support Staff category (SSS) who have never visited other ICAR-Institutes even in the same state. Keeping this in view, 21 ICAR-Institutes had organized Field/Exposure visit of 288 SSS to nearby ICAR- Institutes during 2019–20. Employees trained Manpower trained (In terms of number): During the reporting period, 3,444 employees have undergone various types of training and capacity building programmes, out of which Scientists, Technical, Administrative including Finance, and Skilled Support Staff (SSS) were 1,055, 728, 1,321 and 340, Improvement in capacity building of ICAR employees since creation of HRM Unit respectively.