 The clear portray of sustainability in all the aspects ICAR employs to create resources is the hallmark and is carried since its inception. More so the healthy development with nature was always been the prime motive for Gandhiji, in the ICAR system healthy development taking shapes with the development of nutri-rich cereals, conservation of germplasm, indigenous methods, forest species and preserving local food system among others. Emphasizing the development of rural India, where the eyes and ears of Gandhiji live, ICAR system with KVKs, ATARIs, and Regional stations have tried to solve problems, transferring the research benefits and augmenting their resource and knowledge base significantly. There always a cadre of scientific staff to mitigate the adversaries of nature and natural calamities which was evidenced during the recent locust attack in Rajasthan, Gujarat and other parts of northwestern India. This illustrates the Gandhiji’s idea of a cadre of frontline workers who try to lessen the adversaries during any calamity. There is always a set of integrated approaches and ideas put forward by the ICAR system for the conservation of germplasm, soil, water, biosphere and ecosystem, which was highlighted by the Gandhiji time and again. In the direction of achieving economic equality put forward by him, various interventions have been made by Kisan Melas, training programmes, mass demonstrations and others to enhance the availability of newly developed and advanced technologies to use in their farm. Further addressing the climate-related issues, which were highlighted by him at the beginning of the 20th century, the ICAR has actively promoted a set of plant varieties, management practices and technologies to reduce the vulnerability of farmers to climate adversaries. Climate change Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 8 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR shows a clear violation of the Gandhian principle of non-violence and harmony with nature. Indeed Gandhiji had cautioned the world much before any modern-day environmentalist. Climate change is a reality and the approaches to contain are on full swing. In this milieu, ICAR-NIAP carried out righteous researches on mainstreaming climate adaptation into the development agenda and assess the impact of climate change on different crops across different agro-ecoregions in an attempt to build climate-resilient agriculture. To build resilience to the climate erratic’s trends both the knowledge and resource endowments are strengthened with the active support of government and civil society organizations.