 Such gears ensure selective exploitation of resources according to criteria on size, shape, age or species. Optimum mesh size and other there are about 1,99,141 fishing vessels in India, of which nearly 72,749 are mechanized vessels (36.5%), 73,410 are motorized (36.9%) and the rest 52,982 non- motorized (26.6%). These are in excess of the optimum that the fishery system can sustain; motorized vessels thrice and mechanized vessels five times higher than the optimum. This means, over exploitation of the resources bycatch, high energy use and over capitalization especially in terms of indicators such as vessel and gear size, and engine power. Sustainability concerns, therefore demand corrective measures. As a signatory of multinational conventions, following the global codes of conduct is the best policy option that India can think of. The global thinking today is towards an integrated approach to sustainable fishing practices under the ‘Responsible Fisheries’ framework. FAO Code of Conduct and Responsible Fishing Approach A Code of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries (CCRF) came from the FAO in December 1995. It sets out the principles and international standards of behaviour for responsible practices to ensure long term sustainability of living Indian Farming November 2020 58 selectivity characteristics for different gears like trawls, purse seines and gillnets for selective exploitation of commercially important fishes. These strategies and measures would enable sustainable fishing by avoiding juveniles, bycatch etc. Demersal trawls which contribute maximum towards the marine fish production of India are non-selective and a large number of non-target species and juveniles are landed during trawling, in addition to its impact on benthic communities. Off bottom trawl system (CIFT-OBTS) is an alternative to demersal trawl in the small-scale mechanized trawler sector. Unlike conventional demersal trawl which is dragged along the seafloor, off bottom trawl operates at a little distance above the bottom. This makes off bottom trawl an eco- friendly gear with significantly lower bottom impact than demersal trawls. Besides, it comes out as a responsible alternate trawl system for harvesting less exploited large demersal and semi-pelagic species as the shrimp and other demersal resources targeted by bottom trawls are rather over exploited. Most fishing gears, while targeting a particular fish or group of fishes, non-targeted ones also are caught unintentionally and is termed as bycatch. Bycatch problem mostly happen when the gear used is non- selective and not designed to exclude non-targeted fish. Devices used to exclude the bycatch of non-targeted species including endangered species like turtle are collectively known as Bycatch Reduction Devices (BRDs). These devices are developed taking into consideration the variation in the size, and differential behaviour pattern of fish, shrimp and other animals inside the net.