 Improved feeding and shelter management to reduce age at puberty in Murrah bulls: The study was undertaken at ICAR-NDRI to evaluate the effect of dietary energy and linseed on growth performance, age at first ejaculation, semen quality and to study the behaviour, physiological responses, hormones and blood biochemicals of Murrah buffalo males under different shelter management conditions. It was concluded that Murrah buffalo males can grow faster, attain early puberty and AFE with better semen quality when provided with improved feeding and management. Comparative probiotic potential of faecal lactic acid bacteria isolated from crossbred and indigenous dairy calves: A total of 69 lactic acid bacteria (LAB) strains were isolated from faeces of newborn calves. Carbohydrate fermentation ability was similar in both the genetic groups. However, Tharparkar isolates exhibited the ability to ferment esculin indicating their greater ability to survive in the presence of bile. Dietary supplementation of Tinospora cordifolia stem can prevent sub-acute lactic acidosis in goats: Effect of dietary supplementation of T. cordifolia for reducing the risk of lactic acidosis in goats was investigated in Jamunapari goats. Supplementation of T. cordifolia stem powder at the rate of 2% in Feed additives supplementation for reducing enteric methane production and enhancing performance in lactating Murrah buffaloes: A 90 days trial in early lactating buffaloes was conducted with supplementation of a composite feed additive which contained an ideal combination of methane inhibitors, alternate hydrogen sinks and rumen stimulating agents along with basal feed of green fodder, wheat straw and concentrate mixture. The results LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 77 concentrate feed for 14 days could prevent sub-acute lactic acidosis in small ruminants. Moringa based complete feed is highly economic and productive for sheep and goats: Intensive cultivation of Moringa oleifera can be a sustainable animal diet to meet out the challenge, growing demand of livestock feed and to replace conventional concentrate components of animal diet with prominent fodder resources. The growing goats and sheep fed with moringa based complete feed for long duration attained considerably higher body weight gain and appreciably higher efficiency of feed conversion in comparison to the other group of animals of similar age and breed fed traditional ration. The cost of complete feed (`/ kg) was found drastically low in comparison to the sheep and goat fed traditionally. Moringa fed goats produced higher weight of carcass and contained low fat (3.5% vs 4.8%), higher protein (20.37% vs 18.42%) and low concentration of saturated fatty acids. The vision of doubling farmers’ income through moringa cultivation and its feeding to livestock seems to be viable and sustainable.