, 2015), many farmers still continue to avail credit from non-institutional sources often at a usurious rate of interest such as money lenders. At the national level of India, 51.41% of farmers took credit from institutional sources in 2019. (6) Food grain productivity. Maintaining the growth of food grain production above the population growth is important to meet the increased food demand. A negative trend in food grain productivity leads to inadequate domestic production, high food-price inﬂation, and negative impacts on food and nutritional security. The growth of food grain production higher than the popula- tion growth is essential to maintain food availability, which is one of the components of food security (Jatav, 2022). At the national level of India, the value of food grain productivity was 2.49 t/hm2 in 2019. (7) Crop diversiﬁcation. The term “crop diversiﬁcation” is used to describe the practice of increasing a farm’s agricultural outputs by adding additional and non-traditional crops or cropping systems (Jatav, 2022). The aim of crop diversiﬁcation is to increase crop portfolio to avoid farmers relying on a single crop to generate income. Crop diversiﬁcation can be one of the important tech- nologies in increasing the farmers' income to a certain extent, and also an important stress-relieving option for economic growth of farming community. In states such as Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh, where the ﬁrst Green Revolution took place, S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 223 agricultural diversiﬁcation seems to be a priority. At the national level of India, we observed that only 13.55% of farmers planted more than one crop in 2016. (8) Aware of minimum support price. In absence of procurement, a farmer can refuse to settle price below the minimum support price, if he knows the minimum support price (Chand, 2003). If he does not know the minimum support price of crops, traders and middlemen will turn to be exploitative and offer price less than the minimum support price (Chand, 2008). At the national level of India, only 19.59% of farmers were aware of the minimum support price of crops in 2019. (9) Working in the Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act (MGNREGA). The goal of MGNREGA is to provide a strong safety-net for vulnerable groups by providing a back-up employment chance when alternative employment chances are scare or inadequate. MGNREGA is not only an act against unemployment, but also an act to guarantee the sustainable devel- opment in all ﬁelds, including sustainability of economy, agriculture, forest, health care, and many more ideals and principles of sustainable development (Singh, 2013). At the national level of India, 45.69% of farmers worked in MGREGA in 2019. (10) Agriculture training.