 Bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD): Out of 120 morbid samples from cattle and sheep in Tamil Nadu, 24 samples from 8 cattle had tested positive for bovine pestivirus (HoBiPeV). A total of 300 imported bovine samples were tested negative BVD. Border disease (BD): A total of 1,796 samples from 898 imported sheep from Australia tested negative for border disease (BD). Porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS) and African swine fever (ASF): A total of 325 imported samples tested negative for PRRS. A total of 151 field samples from Madhya Pradesh (108) and Punjab (43) tested negative for PRRS. A total of 47 imported samples were negative for ASF. Other porcine diseases: Seven, twelve and sixteen samples out of 102 samples from Madhya Pradesh showed antibodies against Porcine Epidemic Diarrhoea virus (PEDV), Transmissible Gastroenteritis virus (TGEV) and Porcine Respiratory Coronavirus (PRCV) respectively by ELISA. One serum out of 112 samples from West Bengal showed antibodies against PEDV. Samples collected from 258 pigs imported from the UK were screened for TGE, swine influenza and were found negative. Crimean-Congo haemorrhagic fever (CCHF) virus: A total of 38 bovine sera collected near the CCHF human index case in Botad, Gujarat were tested by ELISA, and 33 were found positive for the anti-CCHFV antibodies. Nairobi sheep disease & Rift valley fever: The imported samples of sheep were tested for the Nairobi sheep disease (n=66) and Rift valley fever (n=66) were found negative. Nipah virus: After two successive outbreaks of 2018 and 2019 of Nipah virus infection in human in Kerala, it was necessary to screen Indian pig population for Nipah virus antibodies. All the 99 pig serum samples from different states (West Bengal-50, Bihar-16, Andmans-14 and Mizoram-19) were negative for the presence of Nipah virus antibodies. Pig Developed rapid laboratory and field assays kits: NRC, Pig developed two multiplex PCR kits; one for simultaneous detection of Porcine Circovirus -2 (PCV- Cattle Isolation and characterization of Bovine Herpes virus 5 (BHV5) from cattle in India: Bovine herpesvirus 1 (BHV1) and 5 (BHV5) are genetically and antigenically related alpha herpes viruses. BHV1 infection is usually associated with rhino-tracheitis and abortion, whereas BHV5 causes encephalitis in cattle. BHV5 outbreaks are sporadic and mainly restricted in South American countries. The NCVTC reported BHV5 infection from aborted cattle in India. The isolate was confirmed as BHV-5, subtype A. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the isolated virus clustered with BHV5 strains and showed highest similarity with Brazilian BHV5 strains. This is the first report of BHV-5 from India. Flowcytometric evaluation of MMP in stallion spermatozoa 2), Porcine Parvovirus (PPV) and Classical Swine Fever Virus (CSFV), and another for rapid detection of Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) from biological samples.