 Presently, the agriculture is shaping up as a professionally driven industry that requires human resources with multiple and diverse skill set to cater to the growing demands of the expanding food processing industry, corporate and unorganized sector. Dr. Rajendra Prasad, one of the chief architects of modern India and its first President and Union Minister of Food and Agriculture, had in true spirit, imbibed the Gandhian concept that agriculture is the backbone of the Indian economy. A firm believer in the maximization of agricultural production and amelioration of the lot of the peasants, he gave the slogan - “Grow More Food” that holds true today even after seventy years. After independence, from the state of deficiency, the country has reached the stage of self-sufficiency in food grain production thereby making a visible impact on the national food and nutritional security. The key to success has been the establishment of institutions of higher agricultural education under ICAR-AU system leading to development of new breed of quality human resource for generating new technologies. Currently, the number of AUs in the country under the NAREE system has swelled up to 74. The intake capacity of students in these institutions, which was less than 5,000 in 1960, has now gone up to > 45,000. With about 410 constituent colleges, these AUs enroll, on annual basis, about 28,000 students at UG level and over 17,500 students at Masters and Ph.D. level. In addition to this, there are >400 private affiliated colleges also enrolling the students Introduction 1 “Education makes life self-reliant. It inspires man to live with dignity in the society.” –Narendra Modi 1 Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 2 for higher agricultural education. Degree courses at undergraduate level are offered in 11 subjects with an emphasis on learning through hands on practice sessions and rural work experience and at postgraduate level in 95 subjects. To achieve the objective of becoming a USD 5 trillion economy by 2024-25, as envisioned by the Hon’ble Prime Minister, India needs to sustain a real GDP growth rate of 8%. The growth of agriculture sector has, however, been fluctuating: it increased from -0.2% in 2014-15 to 6.3% in 2016- 17, and then declined to 2.9% in 2018-19. The contribution of agriculture to the GVA has decreased from 15% in 2015-16 to 14.4% in 2018-19. Therefore, concerted efforts are required to bring transformation in agriculture sector in the country. The Hon’ble Prime Minister has also given slogan of ‘Per drop more crop’. The Government of India has also set an ambitious target to double the income of farmers by 2022-23, which corresponds to targeted annual agricultural growth of more than 14 per cent per year. To realize this goal, quality manpower and policy actions along with scientific interventions are imperative for Indian agriculture. AUs in partnership with ICAR are striving hard in imparting quality education to the students.