 Automation offers a solution to this problem. Similar to how mechanization reduced labour-intensive tasks involving superhuman sweat and draft animal labour to ones that could be finished in a few hours, a new wave of digital automation is once again transforming the agriculture sector. Examples of automated farm equipment include driverless tractors, intelligent irrigation and fertilization systems, Internet of Things (IoT)-enabled agricultural drones, intelligent spraying, vertical farming software, and AI-driven greenhouse robots for harvesting. Artificial intelligence (AI)-driven machines are significantly more accurate and efficient than any human farm worker. (AI in Agriculture and Farming: Revolutionizing Crop Growth - Intellias) 4. Enhanced Sustainability: AI application in agriculture reduces environmental impact and promotes sustainable farming practices by minimizing the use of fertilizers, pesticides, and water. Management of inputs helps preserve soil health, minimize erosion and conserve natural resources.(ICAR, 2024) 5. Increased Productivity: By leveraging data-driven insights and automation, farmers can enhance their decision-making processes. This leads to increased productivity, improved crop quality, and higher yields per acre. Farm management software helps farmers make better decisions by increasing profitability and productivity. Application of AI in Agriculture Sector in India. https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 157 editor@iaeme.com Problem solving through AI in Agriculture Sector(PwC, 2022) S.No. Need of AI Areas of concern AI-led solutions 1. Judicious use of pesticides → With an annual production of almost 900,000 tonnes of agrochemicals, India is the largest producer of pesticides in all of Asia. When it comes to the use of agrochemicals, the two top crops are cotton (18– 20%) and paddy (26– 28%). → 2% of sprayed pesticides actually target the intended species. → Pests contribute 14% of agricultural value loss even with widespread pesticide use, and abuse of pesticides leads to insecticide resistance and pest resurrection, which raises input cost. → Further, the system is devoid of a robust and genuine advisory service for input. → Using photos from pest traps, AI can determine the density of pests. → To optimize the use of pesticides, it can determine the economic threshold level (ETL) and offer recommendations on the timing, kind, and quantity of applications. 2. Smart irrigation management → In India, irrigation efficiency is only 38% and monsoon dependence accounts for 53% of cultivable land. → 70% of the freshwater extracted is used for agriculture. → Only 12% of micro irrigation systems are in use. → Short- and long-term forecasts for monitoring water availability from surface, ground, and soil moisture can be produced using AI-led disruption. → Through the analysis of water demand, surplus and deficit regions, and budget balancing, artificial intelligence can support village-level water budgeting.