 Constitution of trials AVT-I shall be constituted separately for each recognized agro-ecological zone by the entries promoted from the IVT on the basis of the criteria specified earlier, the repeat entries from the previous year’s AVT-I and the check varieties. Specially developed near isogenic lines (NILs) as per the guidelines under V. Testing of Near Isogenics (p. 14) may be included at this stage. 2. Number of entries The number of entries in AVT-1 shall normally not exceed 20. Higher number may be considered only as an exception. 3. Checks A minimum number of three checks, comprising a National check (wherever available) and a Zonal check, which is the most recently released variety, along with the local check, as specified under IVTs would be used. Additional checks such as the latest identified variety should also be included along with any other released varieties. 4. Source and quality of seeds of test entries The source of seeds and seed quality standards for the test entries and checks would be the same as specified earlier under the IVT. 5. Plot size, number of replications and field layout (i) AVT-I should be larger than IVT to make more realistic estimates of the yield performance and to reduce inadequacies/errors of measurements inherent in small plots. (ii) The plot size for AVT-I shall be determined on the basis of the earlier experience in conducting AVT and on estimating sampling errors as well as on the basis of the average yields recorded. (iii) Design of the experiment to be followed shall be RCBD with 3-4 replications or any other suitable design so as to enable detection of minimum yield difference among entries as stated earlier. 6. Management of the crop This is same, as given under the IVT. 7. Test locations (i) The number of trial sites shall be much more than those for the IVT in a given zone. In addition to the IVT test centres, this trial should be conducted at other centres, which shall include zonal 7 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS research stations of the State Agricultural Universities/Regional Research Centres of the ICAR Institutes/Agriculture Colleges/KVKs/Agriculture Experimental Centres of the Department of Agriculture and farms of the participating private sector organization, including NGOs, with adequate testing facilities. (ii) The trial sites shall be well distributed in the region where the crop is important, and the number of the sites shall be relatively more in the regions with larger area under the crop. (iii) The minimum number of test locations from which data of acceptable quality shall be generated should not be less than four per zone/ecology per season, and preferably many more. (iv) If for any reason, the number of locations from which data of acceptable quality are received fall less than four in a zone, the number of seasons/years of testing should be increased to maintain minimum test standards.