 Currently, she is manufacturing chicken, mutton and prawn pickle and also selling value added meat products. The raw materials are sourced from her husband’s meat shop. This seems a good example for integrating the backward supply chain, as the cut-up parts and left over after deboning are utilised for manufacturing pickles. Being a home-grown brand comes with its share of challenges. For her, competition is both with the local pickle seller who offer low price points and the multinational brands who are able to dominate shelf space across cities. She has recruited two marketing boys who look after the distribution and marketing. Sarika admits that her “biggest USP– quality and marketing has been through word”. Corresponding author's e-mail: muthukumar55@rediffmail.com. Jai Kisan, Jai Vigyan • A total of ` 788.33 crores have been sanctioned for opening six new agricultural colleges for eastern India under Central Agricultural University, Imphal, and a new Central Agricultural University in Meghalaya. • For the establishment of two new agricultural research institutes in Asom and Jharkhand, a sum ` 100 crores is allocated. • First academic session of the Rani Lakshmibai Central Agricultural University has been allocated for four new agricultural colleges in Datiya and Jhansi. • An Memorandum of Understanding was signed for transforming the Rajendra Central Agricultural University, Pusa, Samstipur, Bihar. A proposal of ` 400 crores is submitted in EFC. • Post-Graduate Institute of Horticulture is being established in Amritsar, Punjab. • Foundation stone of the Indian Institute of Agricultural Biotechnology is laid at Ranchi for promoting agricultural biotechnology. Indian Farming January 2020 40 Creation of Entrepreneurship through Public Private Partnerships – A success story from North Eastern India R Thomas, Mohan N H and S Rajkhowa ICAR- National Research Centre on Pig, Guwahati, Assam 781 131 Public-private sector partnership (PPP) is an institutional innovation to bring in synergy, mobilize resources, generate, validate and transfer technologies. In every PPP programme, skills and assets of each sector (public and private) are shared in delivering a service or a facility for the use of the general public through a mutual agreement. In addition to sharing of the resources, each party also shares risks and rewards potential in the delivery of the service and/or the facility. Across the world, lot of innovations of technologies/techniques are happening in the R&D institutions, including that of agriculture and allied sectors, but their outreach to the end user is very much limited. In order to achieve efficient transfer of technologies from research institution to the industry, partnerships at various levels with different objectives were developed amongst various stakeholders, which shall bring prosperity to the nation through the prosperity of the main stakeholder, the farmer.