 Shri Fawas and his partners consulted the ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology (CIFT), Cochin to get the technical support for improved packaging of RTE Mussel Produces, where institute had suggested the technique of thermal processing or high temperature processing for product storage without adding any chemical preservatives to enhance the products’ shelf life at room temperature. Shri Fawas got registered as an Incubatee at the Agri-business Incubation Centre of ICAR-CIFT during the month of November, 2018. The ICAR-CIFT-ABI provided him with the necessary technical supports for processing the Classic Malabar Snack “Stuffed Green Mussel” from the inception stage itself. It involved procurement of fresh Green Mussels, stuffed with traditionally blended rice and other ingredients, then packed carefully in food grade retort pouch at high temperature, sufficient to kill pathogens of public health significance and, thus, increasing the product’s shelf life. After the successful test marketing, Shri Fawas registered a company during April-2019 by the name of M/s Foo Foods Pvt Ltd at Chaliyam, Kozhikode to create a marketing brand “FOO FOODS” for the product. The technology was transferred by ICAR-CIFT through the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding with the party. Later, Dr Trilochan Mohapatra, Secretary (DARE) and DG (ICAR) launched the product christened as Kallummakkaya Nirachath on 25 May 2019. The RTE stuffed Mussel product “Kallummakkaya Nirachath” was highly appreciated by the consumers and retailers in respect of its quality, taste and cost. The product is now available in the Hypermarkets and Supermarkets in Kozhikode and Malabar regions throughout the year with a market price of only ` 140/pack (125 g) containing five stuffed Mussels. The cost of production was estimated to be ` 740/kg of mussels with average monthly production of 375 kg of RTE stuffed Mussel products. The net profit of the company after meeting all the expenditures is around ` 142,500/month with BCR 1.51. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 165 Coconut chips positioned to become the NewGen coconut product Over the years, the novel coconut product developed by the ICAR-CPCRI has become a consumer product across India. It is a ready to eat, non-fried crispy snack prepared from 8 to 9 months old coconut. The fresh kernel is cut into thin slices and subjected to osmotic dehydration and electric drying thereafter. It is an emerging, globally high demand micro food enterprise. The Institute has transferred the technology know-how of coconut chips to 38 licensees till now. Out of these, 20 firms are producing coconut chips regularly. These firms realize an output of 6 to 45 tonnes a year. The retail price of coconut chips varies from ` 800 to ` 1,500/kg. The entrepreneurs are adding further value addition to chips in terms of flavours and packaging types. Some of the firms have started exporting of coconut chips to Canada, USA and Gulf countries.