 Development of highly productive varieties is not at the pace the climate is changing in the North East and it is a biggest challenge as the varieties/ genotypes are not identified based on area specific difficulties. Humid climate of north-east India is prone to outbreak of various pests and diseases as seen in different crops as compared to other semi-arid or dry states. Not only pest and disease are a problem in humid climate but also, the weed problem and the management are related to various aspects from financial to the availability of pesticide. Non-availability of sufficient water for irrigation during rabi season is another constraint. Water component in any crop system is vital therefore inadequate availability of water leads to failure of crop. In rabi season, where water is scarce even in the north-east India, so production of wheat without irrigation is very difficult and sometimes it leads to total failure of the crop if there is no irrigation or uneven distribution of rainfall as the most critical stage of water requirement at crown root initiation. Post harvest, storage and marketing: Total number of flour mills in north-east is very less compared to other states or being closed due to certain reasons like inadequate availability of wheat produce and un-certainty of wheat production in north-east India. Transportation is also a problem due to the adverse terrain and under-development of roads and infrastructures in the north-east India. Lack of railway network in the hills of north-east India creates downfall to the economy from wheat produce. Cold storage is very important in case of storing food grains, but about 15 to 20% of food grains get wasted every year due to lack of proper storage facilities in north-east India and it causes the loss of millions of rupees. Marketing is a very important from an economic point of view. In north-east India, there is still many middlemen and other limitations like lack of storage or roadways in the rural areas of plains and hills, mostly illiterate farmers are forced to sell their produce to middlemen due to their low bargaining power and not directly connected with consumers, price fluctuation, and lack of market information makes the whole situation worst. Remedies to wheat production in the North-Eastern India The wheat cultivation in north- eastern region is very challenging because of many constraints. The list of some important constraints and their remedies is enlisted in Table 2. The soil acidity, climatic conditions and market place are three main constraints those affect wheat cultivation in north-eastern region. Therefore, to manage Indian Farming 29 December 2023 the soil conditions, farmers need to apply lime in the field as per recommended dose. To rectify the second cultivation problem, breeders and biological scientist should be focused, to breed hardy, early maturing, tolerant to acidic soil and having other responsive Table 2.