 Root of bharangi chingari lanjal possess insecticidal properties. It contains rotenone. 50. Datura (Datura suaveolens) possess insecticidal properties. 51. Leaves of besharum (Ipomoea cornea) possess pesticidal properties. It contains a polysaccharide ipomose, an anthracene glucocide and saponins. 52. Seed oil and juice of rattan jyoti or physic nut (Jatropha gossypifolia) possesss insecticidal properties. 53. Bheranda (Jatropha gossypifolia) possess insecticidal activity . It contains toxic alkaloid jattrophane. 54. Leaves of lantana (Lantana camara) possess pesticidal properties. It contains two toxic principles - lantadene A (angeloyloxy-oleanonic and C35, H52, O6) and B (dimethylacryloyloxyoleanonic acid (and C35, H52, O5). 55. Wild plant of Plectranthus rugosus shows insecticidal activities and possess essential oils. 56. White tephrosia (Tephrosia candida) shows insecticidal activities. It contains rotenoids. 57. Leaves of sambhalu shivari (Vitex negundo) possess insecticidal properties. 58. Powdered leaves, stem and roots of antamul (Tylophora asthmatica) have pesticidal activity . It contains toxic alkaloid of tylophorine and tylophorinine. 59. Leaves of Vitex trifolia possess insecticidal properties. It contains flavone glycoside, diiosametin and steroids. 60. Root and stem of (Zanthoxylum nitidum) possess insecticidal properties. It contains flavone glycoside, diiosmetin and steroids. 61. Seeds of muskemellow (Abelmoschus moschatus) possess insect-repellent properties. It  contains gossypetine hibiscine and a quercitine. 62. Roots of aconite (Aconitum ferox) are used as insecticide. It contains aconite alkaloids. 63. Rhizomes of sweet flag (Acorus calamus) possess pesticidal properties. It contains oil and asrone derivatives. 64. Flowers and leaves of dog fennel (Anthemis cotula) possess insecticidal properties against fleas, bedbugs, flies, etc. Its toxicity is due to the presence of essential oil and alkaloids. 65. Kirayat (Andrographis paninculata) plant extract possesses toxic properties. Its leaves contain a bitter andrographolid compound. 66. Seeds of bharband (Argemone mexicana) yield 22-36% of a bitter non-edible oil, which possesses insecticidal properties. 67. Juice of the leaves of Blumea densiflora possess insecticidal properties, particularly against mosquito. 68. Oil of citronell grass or ganjani or winter grass (Cymbopogon nardus) known as citronell oil is used to wardoff mosquito. 69. Leaves of Delphinium brunonianum possess insecticidal properties 70. Seeds of Delphinium elatum show insecticidal properties. It contains alkaloids. 71. Apple of Peru (Nicandra physaolides) is used as fly poison. It kills head lice. It contains toxic glycoside nicandrin and an alkaloid. 72. Leaf extract of congress weed or gajar ghas (Parthenium hysterophorus) possesses pesticidal properties. It contains parthenin. 73. Plectranthus mollis is used as mosquito repellent. It contains proteamemonia. 74.