65 ha) and 51 shrimp hatcheries have been registered under the Coastal Aquaculture Act (CAA), 2005 Conservation and management of fisheries resources are done by adopting measures namely imposing seasonal fishing ban, stock enhancement, habitat development like sea ranching programme, installation of artificial reefs and introduction of diversified fishing methods. Artificial reefs act as habitats to marine aquatic organisms, help in enhancing the fish production through increased breeding activity and survival of young ones. It also acts as a barrier for bottom trawling operations. The Government has taken steps for development of fish habitats, by setting up of artificial reefs in the inshore waters as a conservation/stock enhancement measure. So far, 37 artificial reefs have been setup along the Tamil Nadu coast. The Indian Squid is available throughout the coast and is predominant in the catch in the west coast of Kanyakumari district. To take up diversified fishing, this State have introduced a scheme of extending financial assistance to fishermen for procurement of squid jigging materials with 50% subsidy assistance. Strategies a. Identification of suitable areas for aquaculture development through effective utilization of potential brackish water areas Out of the 56,000 ha total potential area available for brackish water in Tamil Nadu, hardly 10% has been developed into shrimp farming and at present about 6% area is under culture. Hence there is ample scope for further development of shrimp, finfish, crab and bivalve (edible oysters) farming that can create new farming enterprise and also to improve the livelihoods of the coastal population living in the remote areas, by creating alternate livelihood options. To address this, a policy for utilizing public brackish water resource, such as leasing policy, under the Government of Tamil Nadu, need to be framed involving research and development agencies, stake holders and farmers. 524 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 CIBA has developed a methodology for identifying suitable land area for brackishwater aquaculture development based on multi-disciplinary decision support system using Geographical Information System (GIS) and Remote Sensing data. The technology includes delineation of suitable coastal land areas and inland saline areas incorporating CAA guidelines, source water characteristics, distance from the water source, drainage and carrying capacity of source water bodies for the sustainable expansion of brackishwater aquaculture. Further, geo-spatial techniques like 3-D mapping can be adopted for assessment of resources in the potential areas considering parameters such as water depth, pH, seasonal and water depth effect on sea water temperature etc. ICAR-CIBA has initiated a programme in partnership with the Tamil Nadu Government in this direction for identification and mapping of potential brackishwater resources in Ramanathapuram district.