 Erumalainaickenpatty, (via Devadapatty), Taluka Periyakulam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 601 Shri Vidhya Dut, Laboratory Attendant, Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 Content YARN Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3545 Preparation of indigo dye 3546 Use of kovai (Coccinia grandis) leaves for dyeing clothes 3547 Natural dyes Indigo dye is prepared from aviri (Indigofera tinctoria) leaves. About 1- 1.5 tonnes aviri leaves are collected and put in a cement tank with the water level 2 feet and the leaves are kept immersed in water for 10-15 hr. Coloured water is transferred to another cement tank. This solution is stirred well and blue-coloured solution is kept for sometime to get the dust deposited at the bottom. Filtered solution is then transferred to a brass vessel and boiled properly. After boiling, the mixture is poured into a plate for cooling. This mixture, when solidified, is cut into small pieces and used as dye. Keywords: indigo dye, aviri leaves, blue coloured solution About 10 ml leaf extract of kovai (Coccinia grandis) is mixed with 1 spoonful turmeric powder and kept overnight in a mud pot. This mixture is used to dye cotton and other clothes. Sometimes it may be even painted on the wall, which gives greenish yellow colour. Key words: kovai, dyeing clothes Bixa ornellena seed is used as natural colour dye. This is directly used as colouring agent Keywords: dye, colouring agent Shri M. Thamizharasan, No.41/3, Chinna Mudali Street. Nagalapuram, Tindivanam, Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 153 Shri A. Muthiah, S/o Shri Audi. P.O. Endapuli, Periyakulam, Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 501 Shri Ramakant Chari, Porye, Dongrion, Tiswadi. Sattari North Goa (Goa) 403 505 Content 19 Low-cost Housing Materials Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3548 Jhompra—a low-cost house Housing is the one of the major problems of the poor farmers. In desert during summer the temperature goes very high and in winter it touches around freezing point. People of village Gilakor of district Jodhpur in Rajasthan have developed jhompra technique for residing. It remains cool during summer and provides good protection in winter besides keeping safe from chilling cold of the desert. Jhompra is cheap, good looking and durable. Rain water does not enter the roof of jhompra. Most peculiar characteristic of jhompra is its resistance to earthquake. Normally it takes 1 week for its preparation. Materials required are: murrain, loam soil (yellow coloured), cowdung, pearlmillet husk and stem, khejri stick, thick and thin ropes. Method: Murram, loam soil, cowdung and pearlmillet husk and water are mixed by trampling with feet, to get a homogeneous mixture. At the place where these jhompras are to be prepared, sand is excavated up to a depth of 6 inches.