 Malavika Dadlani, JD(Research), IARI The Consultation Meeting on “Preparing Road Map for Seed Research in India” was organized on 1st August, 2011 under the Chairmanship of Dr. S. Ayyappan, Director General, ICAR in Plant Virology Auditorium, IARI, New Delhi. The inaugural session of Consultation Meeting resumed with welcome address by Dr. H.S. Gupta, Director, IARI, New Delhi. At the outset, he welcomed the dignitaries on the dais, Dr. S. Ayyappan, Director General, ICAR, Dr. S.K. Datta, DDG (CS), ICAR, Dr. R.R. Hanchinal, VC, UAS, Dharwad, Dr. J.S. Sandhu, ADG (Seeds), Dr. M. Dadlani, Joint Director (Res.), IARI, Dr. Vilas A. Tonapi, Head, Division of Seed Science and Technology and all the delegates representing both public and private sector who have come from all parts of the country. In his remarks, he emphasized on developing the world-class referral lab in India to address all issues related to seed quality. The issues related to seed policy, seed industry development were highlighted to bring in the harmonization in seed trade for a vibrant seed industry. Dr. R.R. Hanchinal, VC, UAS Dharwad in his address opined that accesss to good quality seed will aid in enhancing commercial yield by 30% to usher in food security. Further it is required that the focus needs to be on supply of best quality high volume low value seed at the door step of the farmers at reasonable cost. The healthy competition between public and private seed sectors needs to bring in better Bt-cotton hybrid from public sector also. Since storage of seeds is a problem at the village level, the participatory and community based seed systems can help in solving this problem. He urged the scientists to work on issues related to climate change, seed viability and vigour to deliver better technologies to the stake holders. Dr. J.S. Sandhu, ADG (Seeds), ICAR, stressed on the need to work on developing quick test for genetic purity and seed health management to ensure better seed quality assurance. He was of the opinion that there are still larger indents for very old varieties which need to be replaced with new and best varieties. There are 1200 varieties in seed  of 23 Proceedings of Consultation meeting to prepare “Road Map for Seed Research in India”, 1st August, 2011, IARI, New Delhi chain. It is important to maintain genetic purity to provide best quality seed. He also requested the scientists to explore the new areas for seed production. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Director General, ICAR in his interaction with the seed scientists was of the opinion that seed is the basic input that creates considerable impact to usher in food security. The National Agricultural Research System including private sector and CG system needs to work on a common platform to deliver relevant innovations and seed production technologies.