 Disease Surveillance and Monitoring National Network Programme on disease monitoring and epidemiology should be further strengthened and include study on production losses, national prevalence and molecular epidemiology of diseases in domestic livestock. There is an urgent need to explore the possibility of harmonization and commercialization of disease diagnostic techniques developed by various laboratories in the country. 7 Enhancing Reproductive Efficiency For faster multiplication of superior germplasm, there is an urgent need to implement Multiple Ovulation and Embryo transfer technology and in vitro Embryo Production using sexed semen. Continuous financial support and skill development is necessary for successful implementation of these technologies to yield desired results. Efforts to upscale the technologies are essential so as to be cost effective to the livestock farmers. Other Ideas Geographical Tagging of the unique livestock products of indigenous livestock like Kadaknath for meat; A1/A2 milk, desi ghee, Garole and Kendrapada sheep for FecB gene, carpet wool of Chokla sheep, Hallikar and Nagouri cattle for draft purpose etc is essential. Need to have detailed study on the therapeutic value of camel milk, sheep milk and goat milk. Approval from FSSAI should be obtained for sale of different animal products for human consumption (certification for A2 milk, fortified milk, products from disease free animals etc).x) environmental pollutants in the animal food chain. There is a need for establishment of strong networking and collaboration among commonwealth countries in animal health and production. 5. Fishery sciences In the area of fishery science, 8 proposals (6 during 2016-17; 1 during 2017-18 and 1 during 2018-19) were approved for sanction of financial grant by the Council for holding conferences/ seminars / symposia. The major recommendations brought out from these seminars were: Fisheries Education Fisheries colleges in land locked states should plan exchange programme with colleges in coastal areas so that the students will have proper exposure in courses and field realities related to marine sector. In order to have uniform and quality education new fisheries colleges to be started by state governments should follow the Lakra committee guidelines. Courses on physiology, pharmacology, therapeutics, drugs in aquaculture should be made mandatory in B.F.Sc, curriculum to empower fisheries graduates to provide support to and to act as certified aquaculture health professional. Marine Seaweeds Seaweed culture and its products have the potential to be used as nutraceuticals and in the production of functional foods. The income of self help groups engaged in seaweed collection can be augmented through small scale industries by promoting and popularizing them. Juvenile Fish Landings Adoption and implementation of a region specific suite of management and technical measures are necessary to address the issue of juvenile fish landings.