 The mass and frontline extension are carried out by 4 major agricultural extension systems: (i) Department of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare (DAFW) and the related ministries of rural development and some voluntary organizations; (ii) frontline extension systems by KVKs, ICAR institutes and SAUs; (iii) business and trade specific commodity extension services by commodity boards and (iv) input specific extension services by agri-business agencies. The KVKs are the only gateway for frontline extension innovation for technology generation and dissemination at district level in the country. Starting with first KVK in 1974 in Puducherry, the network grew to 730 KVKs by 2022 in the country hosted by agricultural universities, State Governments, NGOs, Public Sector Undertakings and other educational institutions. With over 1.2 billon mobile connectivity, about 3.5 lakh rural common service centres and all the rural districts having frontline technology dissemination centres-KVK, the agricultural scientists and farmers are ready to bring another revolution- Smart Farmers & Farming in India. ICAR has developed over 80 mobiles apps on different aspects of farm and farmer’s related services. The KVKs are providing mobile agro-advisories and other services to farmers in mobile handsets in the rural areas. They are now linked with about 3.5 lakh the common service centres to provide demand-driven services to the farmers. The motto of the Council, “Agri Search with a Human Touch”, speaks volumes of the importance that the Council attaches to transfer of technology to the farming community. The capacity building of community-based organizations and farmers’ groups for acquiring knowledge and its transfer is being put in place for a faster dissemination. The research-extension linkages at the national, regional, state and zonal levels have been Indian Agriculture after Independence 22 institutionalized. A number of new concepts and models of participatory research and extension are being evolved now. The innovations include Farmer Producer Organisations, Diploma in Agricultural Extension Services for Input Dealers (DAESI), Climate Smart Extension with technological, institutional and community-led innovations, Farmer FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav, Nutri- sensitive Agricultural Research and Innovations (NARI), Knowledge System & Homestead Agriculture Management in Tribal Areas (KSHAMTA), Value Addition and Technology Incubation Centre in Agriculture (VATICA) and ICT-based Extension such as mKisan, DD Kisan, Kisan Sarathi and Mobile Apps. The current robust and efficient extension system is capable of meeting the evolving needs of farmers in the context of changing agricultural scenario and enhance farmers’ income and ensure a sustainable growth. The ICT application over time has been scaled up in the ICAR-SAUs-KVK extension system. Detail achievements in agricultural extension are presented in Chapter 14. 4.