 The advisories received prime coverage in print, electronic and social media across the country including DD Kisan and other channels. Kharif advisory for farmers was issued by ICAR for dissemination in 15 regional languages to farmers and farmer groups in 29 states through 718 KVKs along with state extension departments through print, electronic and social media and digital platforms. The kharif advisory covered better management practices to be adopted by farmers in all major kharif crops of paddy, maize, millets, pulses, soybean, sugarcane, vegetables and fruit crops; livestock, poultry and fisheries production systems during the ensuing kharif season to boost farm productivity and profitability. Successful cases of agri-solutions to combat COVID 19 pandemic at farmer level were identified and documented. More than 100 best farm practices that helped farmers and farmers groups to cope with the lockdown by all KVKs across the country were documented for further dissemination. The practices covered innovative marketing linkages established, improved storage, feed and fodder management, critical extension and advisory services, processing and value addition examples. More than 8.0 crore messages were issued by KVKs to farmers through issue of 2044 advisories across the states through m-Kisan portal. Dissemination of advisory was also made through Gandhian Philosophy of Self-reliance: Lab-to-Land Initiatives of ICAR 170 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR WhatsApp groups, newspapers, radio and TV channels, other social media and ICT platforms. Advisories were disseminated to 20.28 lakh farmers during the lockdown periods. Out of these, 9.37 lakh farmers were covered through 6711 KVK WhatsApp groups and 10.91 lakh farmers reached through other ICT platforms. News items on advisories issued by KVKs appeared in 1588 newspapers, messages were disseminated through broadcast of 395 radio talks and 92 TV programs besides attending 1.27 lakh calls from farmers. In addition, KVKs also disseminated the advisories to state department and private extension network for faster dissemination for rapid and wider coverage to their group members. Nearly 52003 q of improved seed of crops, 78.78 lakhs of planting material and 13.0 lakh fish fingerlings have been mobilized by KVKs for supply to farmers. The KVKs disseminated the message for use of Aarogya Setu mobile application to fight COVID 19 pandemic to 63.27 lakh farmers, which has been downloaded by 8.16 lakh farmers during lockdowns. 11. Convergence with the National Programmes Integrated development of villages in aspirational districts was aimed with the launch of Krishi Kalyan Abhiyan (KKA) by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare to intensify development work in 112 Aspirational districts of the country. In each district, 25 villages were selected for integrated development.