 AICRP on Fruits was initiated to work on mango, grape, citrus, banana, papaya and pineapple. AICRP on Floriculture was established to carry out nation-wide interdisciplinary research by linking SAUs with ICAR institutes. Later upgraded to Directorate of Floricultural Research. AICRP on Spices was initiated at IISR, Kerala. Achievements in Horticulture in Independent India 117 Year Milestone Mallika-1st regular bearing mango variety was released by IARI. 1st Public sector hybrid in vegetable crops Pusa Manjari and Pusa Meghadoot of bottle gourd were released for commercial cultivation. 1972 The Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) was started as Central Mango Research Station at Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh. 1973 First release of private sector hybrids in tomato (Karnataka) and capsicum (Bharat) to the farmers by M/s Indo-American Hybrid Seeds, Bengaluru. 1974 Central Plantation Crops Research Institute (CPCRI) was established at Kasaragod, Kerala. VTLAH1, VTLAH2 and VTLAH3 early, dwarf and high yielding arecanut hybrids were developed. 1977 Establishment of National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation by National Agricultural Co-operative Marketing Foundation at New Delhi. 1979 Amrapali-mango variety suitable for HDP was released by IARI 1981 Coconut Board was established through Coconut Development Act-1979 1984 National Horticulture Board (NHB) was set up by Government of India on the basis of recommendations of the “Group on Perishable Agricultural Commodities”, headed by Dr. M.S. Swaminathan. 1985 National Research Centre on Citrus was founded at Nagpur. Parbhani Kranti variety of okra resistant to YVMV was released which revolutionized okra cultivation in India. 1986 Project directorate of vegetable research at IARI. Directorate of Cashew research was founded with headquarters at Puttur, Karnataka. 1987 Spice Board was constituted under Spice Board Act-1986 with Headquarters at Kochi, Kerala. 1992 PDVR headquarters was shifted to Varanasi from IARI New Delhi. 1993 Establishment of National Research Centre on Banana, Udhayam (ABB) variety was released in 2005 1994 Establishment of National Research Centre for Onion and Garlic at Nasik, later in 2008 upgraded as Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research and shifted to Pune. Central Institute for Temperate Horticulture was established at Srinagar, to carryout research activities in temperate horticultural crops. 1996 Establishment of National Research Centre on Orchids at Gangtok, Sikkim. Nematode resistant variety of tomato Pusa-120 was released. 1997 Establishment of National Research Centre on Grapes at Manjri, Pune. Manjari Medika and Manjari Naveen are some promising varieties were released in 2017. 1998 Centre for Protected Cultivation Technology was created IARI, to demonstrate technologies of protected cultivation in horticultural crops. 1999 Indian Institute of Vegetable Research was established at Varanasi, Kashi Krishna Black Carrot variety was released.