 The delegation of powers already made under the existing Rules and the Bye-laws in force prior to the enforcement of these Bye-laws to the various authorities and other officers of the Society, shall continue to be exercised by them till such time these are either withdrawn or enhanced or reduced under the Rules and Bye-laws, which may be in force. 44. Agreements etc. which may create obligations of any nature on the Society and not covered under any other bye-law shall be signed by the Director- General, or the Secretary or an Officer working under and authorised by the Secretary. 45. Words and expressions used in these bye-laws shall have same meanings as defined in the Rules. Words importing the singular number shall include the plural number, and words importing the male gender shall include the female gender. The interpretation of these bye-laws, as made by the President, shall be conclusive and final. 46. Any Bye-law, or part of a Bye-law, which may be found to be in conflict, wholly or in part with the Rules, shall cease to be valid. 47. Notwithstanding anything contained in the Rules and Bye-laws of the Society, any action initiated or purported to have been initiated under the Rules and Bye-laws then in force and further proceedings 49 taken thereafter shall be valid and effective till such time these actions/proceedings are finalised. Commencement of these 48. , These Bye-laws shall come into force on and from Bye-laws the date these are approved by the Government of India. Adopted by the Governing Body of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research at its meeting held on the 18th and 19th August. 1975 and approved by the Union Minister for Agriculture & Irrigation and President of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society, as required under Rule 50 of the Revised Rules of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. 50 (Extracts of Bye-laws 38 to 43 of the OLD BYE-LAWS) referred to in New Bye-law 28 of the Revised Bye-laws) APPOINTMENTS 38. The Officers and staff of the Society shall be grouped in the following categories :- i) Scientific; ii) Auxiliary Technical; ill) Administrative, Ministerial and Accounts; and iv) Subordinate staff. 39. (1) Notwithstanding anything in these Bye-laws, the work relating to recruitment to all or any category of posts in the Council's Headquarters and its Research Insti- tutes/Laboratories/Centres may be entrusted by the President/Vice-President, to the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board set up by the Society with the approval of the Government of India, as an independent recruitment agency. (2) The composition of the Selection Committees/Interview Boards for various sci- entific and technical posts in the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Headquarters and its Institutes shall be as under :- I.