 Shri Nanoo Ram disclosed that he is having 70 years old pora for storing his farm produce. This pora is 6 feet high with 3 feet diameter and have 5-6 q storing capacity. For preparation of pora, at least 80 bamboo sticks are required. Inside the house, stone slab is kept on 3 stones. The slabs should be at least 9 inches high from the ground. On the stone slab pora is structured. Slurry of cowdung and gomutra are pasted inside with the coating of fine ash. Such coating is provided to absorb moisture and repel stored grain pests. Such type of pora is cheap, suitable for all weather, moisture-proof, resistance to rodent damage, easy to shift, and covers less space in house. Wheat, rice and maize are safely stored in it for 1 year Key words: pora (karola), grain-storage structure, stone slab, cowdung, gomutra Chola kuzhi, a grain-storage structure is made by digging a pit at the ground level. Size of the pit is 5 m long and 5 m wide. Cowdung and thumbai leaf (Leucas aspera) extract are coated along the walls of the pit. Cereals and Shri Nanoo Ram, S/o Shri Hakra Parmar, Kantharia, Jhadol, dist. Udaipur (Rajasthan) Shri V. Punithavathi, 69 Church Street, Erumalainaickenpatty, Devadanapatty (via, Periyakulam), Theni (Tamil Nadu) 625 601 Content GRAIN/SEED STORAGE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator millets are stored and the opening is closed with lid. This is considered as the best practice. Keywords: chola kuzhi, cowdung, thumbai-leaf extract 2970 Storage of wheat by using lime 2971 Storage of grain by neem (Azadirachta indica) leaves 2972 Use of crushed pepper to increase the storage quality of rice 2973 Tatho—a rice-storage structure 2974 Control of rice moth in stored gains To protect wheat from storage pests, 100 g lime is placed in 1 q wheat. By using this practice, wheat can be stored for about 1 year. This ITK is practised in Nitoie village in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: wheat storage, lime, storage pest Farmers of Khai Khera village in district Bareilly of Uttar Pradesh keep 3 kg neem {Azadirachta indica) leaves in lq grain, which keeps the grain safe for minimum 1 year. Keywords: neem, grain This practice is used for increasing the quality of rice in storage. In this practice about 50 g pepper is packed in a muslin cloth or ordinary cloth. This packet is placed in rice grain. Pepper smell drives away any storage pest. Keywords: crushed pepper, keeping quality Tatho is made of bamboo sticks and cowdung is applied to seal hole. It can be used as sheet or sometimes rolled into a structure shown in fig. Paddy or rice can be stored. Sometimes as a sheet it can be used for drying also. Keywords: tatho, rice, storage, cowdung There is a great loss of stored paddy grains due to rice moth in Assam, which also deteriorates the quality. Use of chemical or synthetic pesticides for preserving stored grains is Shri Khubi Ram, S/o Shri Hulasi Ram. Nitoie, Bhmora, dist.