 Dietary herbal supplementation improved bull semen quality: Dietary supplementation of herbal mixture containing semal musli, mulathi, kaunch seeds, gum arabic, gongura flower/calyx, malabar haldi, gulab Estrus in buffaloes through salivary fern-like patterns CRYODIL: An egg yolk-free, ready-to-use semen extender developed for buffaloes Observation of salivary smear under a microscope Estrus identification in buffaloes with typical salivary fern like patterns Saliva collection from lower lip with an ink pillar before feeding Cetrifugation of saliva @ 4000 rpm for 10 minutes to avoid any dirt A small drop of saliva (20µl) for smear making Typical fern like pattern (Estrus) Observation of the salivary smear under a paper microscope called Foldscope Typical fern like pattern (Estrus) Synthetic (egg yolk free) semen extender for cryopreservation of buffalo semen: The post-thaw progressive motility of cryopreserved buffalo sperm in ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 91 the newly developed egg yolk-free semen extender was significantly higher as compared to that in traditional egg-yolk-based semen extender (42.1±2.11% vs. 26.3±2.18%). The shelf-life this egg yolk-free, ready-to- use, semen extender at 4°C is ≥18 months. Development of buffalo bull fertility diagnostic chip based on sperm transcripts signatures: The SpermXFert is a gene expression-based microarray chip (8×60k format) for predicting fertility status of the bulls for artificial insemination. This will help in identifying and removing sub-fertile bulls from the breeding population. Such measure will ultimately improve overall field fertility and economic status of the farmers. Pig MSY genes: Characterization and expression profiling of Pig MSY genes in male pigs has been done. The results indicated that MSY genes may be used as a marker for selection of boar for breeding purpose. Improvement of camel for dairy potential: Among 4 different camel breeds, Kachchhi breed was found to have highest lactation yield, followed by Mewari and Jaisalmeri breeds. Establishment of Mithun conservation units: Mithun conservation units were established at Thevopishu, Phek District and Khonoma, Kohima District of Nagaland for promoting semi-intensive mithun farming. FSSAI approved Mithun as food animal. Designing and development of artificial limb for large animals For the preparation of the limb socket, 5 mm HDPE (high density polyethylene) sheet of suitable size was kept in hot air oven at 250 to 300oC till it gets completely loose and was wrapped over the stump dye. A steel rod of suitable length was attached from the distal end of the socket. A rubber foot on a steel plate was connected to the distal end of the extension rods. Leather straps with locking buckle were attached at the proximal end of the socket to firmly attach the socket with the amputated stump of the limb.