in ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Attention Indian Horticulture readers: • All disputes are subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of competent courts and forums in Delhi/New Delhi only. • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the advertisers of products and services. The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. Cover Page II Indian Horticulture 2 Editorial ICAR’s Pioneering Horticulture Technology I N the ever-evolving landscape of agriculture, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has been the pioneer in Golden Revolution in India. Indian Council of Agricultural Research continues to be at the forefront of innovation and developing cutting-edge technologies in horticulture. Beyond the immediate benefits, ICAR’s initiative holds promise for the future of sustainable agriculture. The integration of eco-friendly practices, such as organic farming techniques and reduced dependence on chemical inputs, aligns with the global shift towards environmentally conscious food production not only safeguards the health of consumers but also contributes to the overall ecological balance. In ICAR’s horticulture technology, one of its standout contributions lies in the realm of new varieties and hybrid fruits and vegetables – a testament to the organization’s commitment to sustainable farming practices, increased yields, and the overall betterment of the agricultural community. ICAR’s focus on hybridization in fruits and vegetables is a strategic move that holds immense promise for both farmers and consumers alike, which is indicated by the 99 horticultural crop varieties developed last year. The development of climate resilient varieties of fruits and vegetables by ICAR addresses the pressing issue of food security. By leveraging the advantages of hybrid vigor, these crops exhibit heightened resilience, increased productivity, and improved adaptability to diverse agro-climatic conditions. This not only ensures a more reliable food supply but also empowers farmers to navigate the uncertainties of changing climate. In the pursuit of sustainability, ICAR’s efforts contribute significantly to reduce the environmental impact of agriculture.