 Ensure that the public funds appropriated to the Ministry or Department are used for the purpose for which they were meant; iii. Be responsible for the effective, efficient, economical and transparent use of the resources of the Ministry or Department in achieving the stated project objectives of that Ministry or Department, whilst complying with performance standards; iv. Appear before the committee on Public Accounts and any other Parliamentary Committee for examination; v. Review and monitor regularly the performance of the programmes and projects assigned to his Ministry to determine whether stated objectives are achieved; vi. Be responsible for preparation of expenditure and statements relating to his Ministry or Department as required by regulations, guidelines or directives issued by Ministry of Finance; vii. Ensure that his Ministry or Department maintains full and proper records of financial transaction and adopts systems and procedures that shall at all time afford internal controls; viii. Ensure that his Ministry or Department follows the Government procurement procedure for execution of works, as well as for procurement of services and supplies and implements it in a fair, equitable, transparent, competitive and cost-effective manner; ix. Take effective and appropriate steps to ensure his Ministry or Department:- (a) Collects all money due to the Government and (b) Avoid unauthorized, irregular and wasteful expenditure. 3. As per Para 1.3 of Civil Accounts Manual, the Chief Controller of Accounts and on behalf of the Chief Accounting Authority is responsible for: (a) Arranging all payment/Principal Accounts Officer Except where the Drawing and Disbursing Officers are authorized to make certain types of Payments. (b) Compilation and consolidation of account of the Ministry/Department and their submission in the form prescribed, to the Controller General of Accounts; preparation for the Demands for Grant of his Ministry/ Department, getting them duly audit and submitting them to the CGA, duly signed by the Chief Accounting Authority. (c) Arranging internal inspection of payment and accounts records maintained by the various subordinate formations and pay and accounts Offices of the Department and inspection of records pertaining to transaction of Government Ministries/Departments, maintained in Public Sector Banks. 4. The Chief Controller of Accounts, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare performs his duties with the assistance of Controller/Dy. Controller of Accounts, Pr. Accounts Office at HQ and 09 Pay and Accounts Offices, Four Pay and Accounts Offices are located in Delhi/NCR, One each in Mumbai, Chennai, Cochin, Kolkata and Nagpur. All payments pertaining to the Department/Ministry are made through PAOs/ CDDOs attached with respective PAOs.