 It is common in Europe 147 Garcinia indica Kokam butter tree H- Kokam G-Kokan M-Amsol T-Murgal Kan-Murgala Mal- Punampuli The fruit is anthelmintic and cardiotonic and useful in piles, dysentery, tumours, pains and heart complaints. A syrup from the fruit juice is given in billious infection.The root is astringent. Kokam butter is considered nutritive demulscent, astringent and emolient. It is used as a local application to ulceration. A cylender evergreen tree with drooping branches, leaves ovate or oblong lanceolate. The tree is found in the tropical rain forests of western ghat, from Konkan south wards to Mysore, Coorg and Wynad. It is often planted in the southern districts of Maharashtra. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 349 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 148 Gardenia gummifera - H- Dakamari B- Dakamari M- Dakamari G-Kamarri Tel-Manchi T-Dika-ma-lli Kan-Cittubikka O-Gurudu The resin is anti-spasmodic, expectorant, carminative, diuretic and anthelmintic. It is also used to clean for ulcer. Decoction of resin is used in fever. Externally it is used as antiseptic and stimulant. The resin is extensively employed in veterinary medicine to keep away flies from sores, for destroying magots and wounds. A large handsome shrub or a small tree, often with a crooked stem and rough twisted branches,found through out the Deccan Peninsula extending north wards to Bundelkhand and parts of Bihar. 149 Gentiana kurroo - H- Karu, Kutki B- Karu, Kutki P-Nilkant K-Nilkanth Rhizome is used as a bitter tonic for improving appetite and stimulating gastric secretion. It enters into many stomachic. The drug is also administered in fever and urinary complaints. A small perennial herb with a stout rhizome bearing decumbent flowering stem, each with 1–4 blue flowers, commonly found in Kashmir and north-western Himalayas, at an altitude of 5000 to 11000 feet. 150 Glycine soja Soybean H- Bhat, Bhatwar B-Garjkalai Assam-Patnijokra The seeds have been used for centuries as an article of food in China, Japan and Korea and constitute a valuable protein supplement to the rice diet. The seeds are consumed green, dry or sprouted, whole or split. Green seeds are used as vegetable, roasted and slated seeds are used in cakes and candies. The seeds are ground into flour and used for bakery products. They are also processed to give a milk-like product, curd or cheese, soybean is often cultivated as a pasture, forage or fodder crop and used either as hay or as silage. An annual with erect or climbing stem, reaching a height of 1.5–6 feet, densely clothed with hairs; leaves trifoliate, ovate, lanceolate, long petioled, flower small, inconspicuous, borne on short axillary racemes, white or purple to reddish- purple. Soybean is a native of south-eastern Asia. It is a slender, prostrate, twinning plant.