 In this region, fruit growers face problems such as poor groundwater quality, water scarcity, and higher soil pH, which adversely affect plant growth, quality and yield Strawberry drip irrigation schedule in minutes/day Month November December January February March April Time in minutes 10 14 12 22 29 38 attributes. In this context, drip fertigation technology is a viable option to address the problems of water scarcity, poor groundwater quality and nutrient leaching. Drip fertigation technologies have been recommended for different fruit crops such as kinnow, guava, and strawberry. Drip fertigation technology saves nearly 20-35 % of irrigation water and 20 % of the recommended fertilizers in different fruit crops. By adopting this technology, qualitative and quantitative production is obtained and farmers will get good returns from the cultivation of fruit crops. For further interactions, please contact: 1Departement of Soil Water & Engineering 2PAU-Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bathinda 3Professor (Fruit Science) Department of Fruit Science Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana 141 004 Corresponding author: navpremsingh@pau.edu Enhancing Farmers’ Income via “Strawberry Cultivation” : A Case Study from Chittorgarh District of Rajasthan Shri Nemichand Dhakar, a 32 years old farmer, having done Post Graduation, belonging to Sripura village in Nimbahera Tehsil of Chittorgarh district of Rajasthan State, has 6.00 ha cultivable land with two tube wells as well as open well as source of irrigation, besides owning a cattle dairy unit. After completing post-graduation in the year 2014, he started lookingafter his family farms, and realized that… only growing traditional crops like maize, wheat, mustard, gram and groundnut is not profitable; and hence, some innovative enterprise is necessary for enhancement of income. Then, he contacted some agriculture scientists and extension officers, several times, while having thorough discussions regarding various innovative options to enhance farm income. In 2015, he visited KVK, Chittorgarh; and subsequently, he underwent a training on improved cultivation practices of strawberry. In the same year, he started cultivating strawberry in a small area under the technical guidance of Scientists of that KVK. After getting encouraging results, he gained confidence, and extended strawberry cultivation to 1.00 ha in the year 2020. He brought mother plants of three varieties (Winter Down, Winter Star and Sweet Sensation), imported from California; and planted the same in his field. Afterwards, he was able to produce thousands of plants from runners of mother plants, and planted on raised bed, on mulching sheet, with drip irrigation system in September. He sold strawberry fruits in the market of Delhi, Jaipur, Ahmadabad and other metropolitan cities. He earned a net income of `11.60 lakh per ha with 5.83 BCR. Other than strawberry production, now he has also raised 2.