 This makes the transfer of scientist based on objective criteria and it is completely transparent and highly efficient. Also, now scientist can seek direct transfer at different Regional Station of ICAR institute. Further, implementation of Learning Management System (LMS) (https://icar.lms.gov.in) and DigiLocker developed by MeitY were initiated in the Council in related institutions. Also, due to COVID-19 pandemic situation, different meeting and conferences were organized using ICT through Virtual Meeting Tools. K lw{e ÇlpkÃ ls ty laj{k.k vkSj ^çfr cw¡n vfèkd Qly* dh ifjdYiuk ds lkFk&lkFk fdlkuksa dh vk; esa o`f) laHko A — ujsUnz eksnh 14. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), part of frontline extension system, are mandated for technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development under different farming situations across the country. During the reported year, 12 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs to 722 in the country. Besides lab-to-land activities for outreach, important programmes such as Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of pulses and oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and Awareness creation on government schemes, etc. were taken up to address various challenges of engaging youth in agriculture, brining self-sufficiency in production of pulses and oilseeds, sustainable agriculture, etc. Technology assessment Technology assessment is one of the main activities of KVKs to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies developed by National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) under various farming systems. The details of technologies assessed at different locations are discussed here. Crops: A total of 5,421 technologies of various crops were assessed at 13,094 locations by KVKs through conduct of 25,357 trails on the farmers’ field under different thematic areas, namely cropping systems, drudgery reduction, farm machineries, integrated crop management, integrated disease management, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, integrated weed management, processing and value addition, resource conservation technologies, seeds and planting materials production, storage techniques besides varietal assessment for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable and commercial crops. Varietal evaluation was the major theme of technology assessment with 1,442 technologies assessed through 5,550 trials. Other major themes on which technology assessment was made include integrated nutrient management (788 technologies, 3,169 trials, 1,852 locations) and integrated pest management (767 technologies, 3,070 trials, 1,924 locations).