 Since this technology is a fairly new concept, there is a dearth of trained individuals who can harness the capabilities of drones, as acknowledged recently [71]. Despite the availability of skilled professionals, unfavourable working conditions can impede the adoption, which is reflected in the hierarchy of ‘meteorological pa­ rameters’ derived using the responses obtained from experts. For instance, high winds can drift the drones leading to a deviation from the prescribed path. Moreover, high temperatures and extensive rains can hinder drone deployment [72]. Following the ‘meteorological parame­ ters’, ‘access to power’ is next in the hierarchy. Since conventional drones have limited endurance time, depending on the availability of surplus batteries and the area to be covered, there may be a requirement to charge the batteries to cover the entire farm. However, as some of the agriculture farms lack a power supply, charging the surplus batteries when one is in use is a challenge. ‘Logistics between residence and farm’ is fourth in the hierarchy within the operational category. In the context of India, the majority of the farmers either use a bicycle or two-wheel driven motor vehicle to travel between residence and farm. Agricul­ tural drones are relatively big compared to surveillance drones and transporting them could be a barrier for many farmers. If the agricultural farms are within the vicinity of restricted zones, clearance to deploy is a challenge. The Behavioural category is fifth in the rank hierarchy with a score of 0.07, which is relatively less compared to other considered categories. Although behavioural barriers are pivotal in technology adoption, as identified by Tarei et al. (2021) [73], the obtained ranking is justifiable in the context of India where the use of UAV for agricultural activities is hindered due to technical reasons. We expect that performing a similar analysis after substantial technological advancements may result in a higher weightage for behavioural factors. Among this category, ‘Awareness’ obtained the highest score, indicating it is a vital factor within behavioural category. This observation is in line with the ob­ servations of Smith et al. (2022) [74]. The barrier next in the priority list is ‘fear of unemployment’. Since most farmers are primarily dependent on farming, adopting drones as a replacement to manual spraying was felt as a solution that brings unemployment. However, although it re­ places the workforce in a few phases, it creates opportunities for skilled workforce and creates employment. Trust in the functionalities of UAVs, perceived ease of use, the attitude to adopt, and perceived behaviour control follow in the hierarchy with weights of 0.211, 0.151, 0.06, and 0.02, respectively. The social barrier category holds the last rank in the priority among the identified categories. Our results suggest that ‘infringe of privacy’ is the prime barrier within this category, with a weight of 0.41.