 Company’s promotional activities: AgrInnovate India Limited in partnership had participated in the drive ‘Make in India’ in Food processing event organized by CII, CII Agri-Technology and Mechanization Summit 2015: Strengthening Techno-Culture in Agriculture; National Seminar on ‘Governance Reforms for Make- in-India’ and ‘Sustainable Agriculture Initiatives; Conference on ‘Innovations in Agriculture mechanization- development of linkages among R&D industry–farmers’ etc. wherein some of the technologies, products and solutions of ICAR Institutes were exhibited to key customers, business buyers, investors, scientific community and media at large. Efforts for standardizing the processes: The Company has also finalized guidelines for technology commercialization and professional services for National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES) in general and ICAR in particular. CONSULTANCIES • Deputation/Consultancy proposal of Dr P. Routray (Principal Scientist, CIFA, Bhubaneshwar) provided consultancy services in the field of ‘Broodstock management and genetic selection of tilapia’ in Food and Agriculture Organization, Namibia, as an Expert for 20 days w.e.f. 30 November 2015. • Deputation/Consultancy proposal of Dr Kaushik Banerjee (Principal Scientist and ICAR National PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 150 Fellow, NRC on Grapes, Pune) for participation in the Programme Advisory Committee Meeting of Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) in Malaysia from 11 to 15 April 2016 as a Member of the Programme Advisory Committee - Food Nutrition and Quality Sub-Committee of the Malaysian Palm Oil Board, Ministry of Plantation Industries and Commodities, Malaysia. • International Consultancy (short-term) proposal offered by FAO of United Nations to Dr Hukum Chandra (National Fellow, lndian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi) to provide consultancy for implementation of the Global Strategy to Improve Agricultural and Rural Statistics in Sri Lanka with home-based work as a sampling expert to assist with development of improved sampling design/methodology for crop yield estimation in the country at national and sub-national levels for 45 days in 03 (three) mission during 2015 and 2016 under the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) Consultancy project. Third mission/visit of 15 days from 25 April to 9 May 2016. • Consultancy/Deputation proposal of Dr P. Routray (Principal Scientist, CIFA, Bhubaneshwar) to Food and Agriculture Organization, Khartoum, Sudan to provide technical consultancy services in the field of ‘Tilapia Broodstock and Seed Production (ITBS)’ under FAO project (TCP/SUD/3503) to Government of Sudan as an Expert Consultant for 68 days during 2016 and 2017.