 Farmer Producer Organizations (FPO) of less than ` 100 crore turnover, were exempted from income tax for the first five years to encourage professionalism in post-harvest value addition. Organic farming by village producer organizations (VPO) and FPOs is being encouraged. The e-NAM, a mission for integration of Agricultural Produce Market Committees (APMCs) across the country through a common online market platform to facilitate pan-India trade in agricultural commodities, helps to provide better price discovery along with timely online payment, is functional. In 16 states, 585 APMC markets have been integrated with e-NAM platform. The DAC&FW through DFI Committee has been focusing on an income-centred approach rather than traditional approach of achieving farmers’ welfare merely through augmenting the agricultural production. It focuses on higher profits from farming by achieving higher productivity, reduced cost of cultivation and remunerative prices of the produce. Agriculture is a State subject and their Governments undertake formulation of perspective plans and ensure effective implementation of the programmes/schemes. Also, Government of India supplements the efforts of the State Governments through various Schemes/Programmes. To ensure the reform agenda, steps have been initiated by DAC&FW to rank the States through an index, i.e. Ease of Doing Agriculture (EDA). ICAR-NIAP provided technical facilitation in designing the framework for Ease of Doing Agriculture Index. The basic apprehension is to consider farming not solely as a production oriented activity carried out to DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 110 Farm level studies in Punjab, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat and Maharashtra during 2017–18 revealed that adoption of micro-irrigation technology lead to 15–40% savings in farm inputs (water, energy, fertilizer, labour), 18–54% increase in net income of the farmers. The micro- irrigation also increases the opportunity for employment in services related to maintenance of micro-irrigation. Credit constraints, poor maintenance and cumbersome operational process of availing benefits of ongoing schemes are major deterrents to the adoption of micro- irrigation technology by the farmers. Development of integrated ecosystem of financial agencies, technical assistance and operational support may help in scaling up of this viable technology of multiple benefits. A study in the Bundelkhand region revealed that the subsidy transfer as direct benefit transfer has a positive impact as farmers are becoming aware about their entitlements. Selection of farmers and disbursement of subsidies is transparent and speedy which gives extra satisfaction to farmers. Progress of micro-irrigation in India during 2005–06 to 2017–18 SOCIAL SCIENCE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 111 achieve food security for the country, but also as a commercial activity carried out by the farmer as an entrepreneur.