 Keywords: expulsion of placenta, dalia, dahe, desi ghee, gur Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2643 Fresh sugarcane shoot for expulsion of retained placenta in cow For treatment of retained placenta, farmers of Medziphema area of Dimapur district in Nagaland are using sugarcane shoot. About 10 -15 kg fresh sugarcane shoot are taken and fed to the cow. This helps in expulsion of the retained placenta. Keywords: fresh sugarcane shoot, expulsion of retained placenta Shri Baburam Adhikari Medziphema, Dimapur (Nagaland) 2625 Use of sheera as anti-abortive agent in cattle Sheera is prepared from wheat grains. It has certain coolant property and it is fed to animal as anti-abortive agent. About 5-10 kg grains are first soaked in water for 3-4 days in a large Shri Yash Paul Gopalpur, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  container. The grains are then crushed between two rotating stones locally called chakki. The extract is then sun dried and about ½ kg is fed to the cattle at a time for 2-3 days after conception to prevent abortion. It is practised in the Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: sheera, wheat grain, anti-abortive, chakki 2626 Use of siblingi as anti-abortive agent in cattle The climber siblingi (Bryonia lacimiossa) of family Cucurbitaceae is fed to cattle to check the abortion in conceived cattle. This treatment is highly effective and has no adverse effect on cattle. About 5-10 g vines of siblingi are collected, which are crushed with a muller. This is mixed with cattle feed and is fed to the pregnant cattle early in the morning. This practice is used in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: siblingi (Bryonia lacimiossa), conceived cattle, climber Shri Shakker Das Ropad, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2605 Use of pigeon dropping to cure anoestrus problem Generally it is found that female animals (like cow) suffers from anoestrus problem i.e. normally do not come in heat. To overcome this problem and to induce heat for mating, farmers of Nagri area of Kathua district in Jammu and Kashmir are using this practice. In this practice pigeon dropping is mixed with wheat flour. It is fed to the female animals for consecutive four days. Keywords: pigeon dropping, anoestrus problem Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002.