 Keywords: wing feather, fanning, chicken, plucking Shri Thangsamo Lotha, IETC Colony, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 Shri Thangboi Kuki, Medziphema (Nagaland) 797 106 Shri Hemanta Pradhan, Jakeikala, Banaigarh, Sundargarh (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Thangsamo Lotha, IETC Colony, Medziphema, (Nagaland) 797 106 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3472 Use of green leaves of garlic and onion to increase the body weight of chicken birds rapidly 3473 Use of mustard oil for mange in rabbit 3474 Fodder storage in pachawa Poultry farmers of Sonapur, Sewta and Hamirpur of district Azamgarh in Uttar Pradesh feed green leaves of garlic and onion to their chicks for attaining rapid growth. For a lot of 50 chicks (250 g body weight) about 3 kg garlic leaves and 1.5 kg of onion leaves are required. Both the leaves are mixed and fed to the chicks. As these leaves are generally not available in the same season, and hence are fed separately (singly). Garlic leaves are available in the winter season and 4-5 kg leaves are fed to a lot of 50 birds. Onion leaves are available in summers and 2-3 kg leaves are fed to a lot of 50 chicks. This practice is very effective in increasing the body weight of birds rapidly. Keywords: poultry birds, rapid growth, garlic, onion Mange is one of the commonest diseases encountered in rabbit. To cure it, mustard oil is applied to the affected region. Keywords: mustard oil, mange, rabbit Animal keepers of Gila Kor village of Jodhpur district in Rajasthan store fodder by this method. Pachawa is an improved method in which fodder is stored for 15-20 years without any damage. Materials for storing in pachawa are easily available. These are pearlmillet stubbles, harvested grass from fallow and cultivable fields. Many a times the farmers also store pearlmillet ears in the central part of pachawa. That helps during famine and drought conditions. The relevant details for storing fodder in pachawa are given below: 1. Higher elevated place in the Dr Ranjay K. singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Thangsamo Lotha, IETC Colony, Medziphema, (Nagaland) 797 106 Shri Kishan Singh Rathore, Golakor (via Peelvan), Jodhpur, (Rajasthan) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator locality is chosen, so that flood water cannot damage it, and it should be a little away from residence to keep safe from hazards of fire etc. 2. At selected spot levelling is done for larger life of pachawa. At the bottom the first layer of 5 feet height of harvested kharif grasses (sevan, dhaman and bhurat) is put. 3.