5 to 3 kg whereas weight of the latter is 6 to 7 kg; (vii) In the former there is no washer at all whereas the latter needs replacement of washer often; (viii) In the former one person can spray two separate lines at a time whereas in the latter one person can spray only one line and (ix) In the former spare parts are cheaper and available in the villages also whereas in the latter spare parts are costlier and available in town, cities only. Keywords: water tank, sprayer, air sandals, air pressure Shri Ganeshbhai N. Dodiya of Bhavnagar (Gujarat) has innovated a pump that is driven by a motorcycle engine. The pesticide-filled tank is placed at a level higher than the pump, which allows the mixture to come into the pump. The pump outlet is attached to the pipe with 5 openings. One opening is attached to the pump itself. Two openings are connected to the spraying valves (controllable). One opening is left open to allow air to enter. The air enters from the inlet once the water starts being pumped (Bernoulli's principle). This serves the Shri Ganeshbhai N. Dodiya, Bhavnagar (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator purpose of balancing the air pressure. The last opening goes back into the tank. This has a regulator valve that controls the spraying pressure. The returning water also serves the function of stirring the mixture in the tank. This device can be attached to any (Enfield Bullet) motorcycle that has a 5 hp diesel engine. The advantages of this innovative motorcycle-mounted sprayer are as follows: (1) In a market where power sprayers are becoming more and more popular, a motorcycle-mounted sprayer is an attractive proposition for the farmers. The bullet sprayer offers a number of advantages over conventional sprayers. (2) It greatly facilitates the spraying operations for the farmers. Spraying with the use of a bullet sprayer requires lesser time than manual spraying. Since crops like cotton require frequent spraying, a quick method of spraying can prove a boon for the farmers. (3) The adjustable sprayer height makes it very easy to manoeuvre it for spraying different types of crops of various heights. (4) The bullet sprayer is a very efficient product and it does not utilize much energy. (5) The cost of procurement and the operating cost of the sprayer are quite low compared with those of other power sprayers. Also, in the long run. it can prove cheaper than spraying manually. (6) Since it requires less space to move, it can be used in a more versatile manner compared with power sprayers that are mounted on tractors. (7) Bullet sprayer is less bulky than conventional power sprayers and hence it is very easy to handle (8) also, it is much simpler to assemble and dismantle.