 As H+ activity increases, the pH of the soil lowers. As soil pH drops, the most desirable crop nutrients become less available, while others, which are frequently undesirable, become more available and can reach toxic levels. 3.1.1.7. Bulk density and soil moisture. The availability of water, root growth, and the flow of air and water through the soil are all impacted by high bulk density. Soil bulk density is a basic though essential physical soil parameter related to soil porosity, soil moisture, and hy­ draulic conductivity, which is essential for soil quality evaluation and land use management (Li et al., 2019). Crop health is dependent on a sufficient supply of rainfall and soil nutrients, among other things. Plants’ natural functions and growth are interrupted as moisture avail­ ability decreases, resulting in lower crop yields. The NDWI was calcu­ lated to determine the soil moisture of the study area (Pramanik, 2016) as it is a good indicator of soil moisture. To calculate NDWI the Landsat-8 imageries were collected from the USGS data portal with 30 m resolution (https://earthexplorer.usgs.gov/). 3.1.1.8. Soil depth and soil texture. The depth of the soil influences the types of plants that can survive there. Deeper soils often supply more water and nutrients to plants than shallower soils (Abd-Elmabod et al., 2017). The texture of the soil is the size distribution of grains composed of minerals. The soil texture is determined by three types of grains e.g. sand (2–0.05 mm), silt (0.05–0.002 mm), and clay (below 0.002 mm). Soil texture is an important factor in choosing which crops to cultivate because it affects how porous the soil is, how well it holds water, and how dense it is (Chakraborty and Mistri, 2015). In this research, the soil texture data has been collected from the ‘Soil series of West Bengal (Vol. 89), National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Indian Council of Agricultural Research which is the work of Nayak, D.C. (2001). 3.2. Methods In the current study, MCDM methodologies such as AHP (Analytical Hierarchy Process), Fuzzy Complex Proportional Assessment (FCOP­ RAS) methods, as well as machine learning approaches such as Random Forest (RF) and Multilayer Perceptron (MLP) in the present study. When Weighted Linear Combination (WLCM) and MCDM (AHP, FCOPRAS) are used together, the best result is always reached. 3.2.1. Multi-criteria decision-making models 3.2.1.1. AHP (analytic hierarchy process). The primary pair-wise (Eq. (1)) matrix classification in AHP (Saaty, 1980; Malczewski, 2006) is based on a 1–9 scale of relative importance (Table 2), with 1 indicating “equally important” and 9 indicating “extreme importance” (Saaty, 1977; Ghosh and Maiti, 2021). Matrixprimary ⎛ ⎝ a1 a2 a3 a1/2 a1 a2 a1/3 a1/2 a1 ⎞ ⎠ (1) To correct irregularities, the pair-wise comparison matrix was nor­ malised (Eq. (2)).