 The practical content in teaching must be enriched. 7. The UG students may be given 50% optional course work to improve their personality. 8. Exchange of students among universities for a few months may be explored. 9. Aggressive marketing of agricultural education is necessary. 10. Placement and career counseling cells should be strengthened under the charge of trained professionals, but not as an additional charge of teachers. 11. More emphasis is required on entrepreneurship development and RAWE. 12. Regular alumni meets should be held to motivate and guide the younger students. 13. Rural students may be encouraged to study agricultural courses. 14. It was proposed that 25% or more faculty positions may be recruited through ASRB to discourage “son of the soil” factor and in-breeding. More than two degrees should not be allowed from the same University. 15. The 15 and 25% quota of ICAR seats under UG and PG programmes respectively may be increased to 25 and 35% respectively to have more national character in the campuses from other States. 16. Health education and extra-curricular activities including sports should be promoted. 17. Public–Private partnership may be promoted especially in experiential learning for entrepreneurship development. 18. A programme of seed money to young students to set up business or entrepreneurship may be provided. 19. A national level core faculty in different disciplines may be identified, who may provide on-line/e-learning/distance learning modules on principles and major theoretical concepts at the national level, which can be complemented with practical aspects by the local faculty. 20. More support to renovate or rebuild old hostels, laboratories, buildings etc. is needed. 21. Case studies of successful models may be prepared and propagated. 10 22. The department of “Post-harvest management and Value-addition” (PHMV) may be included under the faculty of Horticulture as is being followed in the faculty of fisheries. 23. Some courses (with detailed syllabi) on “Agro-tourism/Agro-eco tourism” may be included. 24. During RAWE/RHWE programme, students may be exposed to the success stories of the stakeholders/farmers. 11 Dr R.C. Goyal, Principal Scientist, IASRI, New Delhi gave an overview of the National Information System on Agricultural Education (NISAGENET) which was set up based on the recommendations of National Statistical Commission. It was informed that NISAGENET will enable to have every conceivable information about agricultural education in the country. It will enable sharing of information, facilities, manpower and information regarding vacancies, publications, R&D activities etc. It was requested that all the remaining State agricultural universities may also join NISAGENET by nominating a nodal officer, The following action points were suggested to make NISAGENET more useful.