 This study further cor­ roborates the strong correlation within the components of the SAW nexus through the use of remote sensing. Previous research has focused on creating land suitability maps for solar power installation in various regions such as Egypt [55], Iran [56], Korea [57], Mongolia [58], and Saudi Arabia [59]. We adopted a similar approach but on a larger scale, integrating the sustainability of food via agricultural practices, water resource utilization, and renewable solar power generation. This research proposes a land suitability map for the optimal use of space for renewable solar energy development. We have analyzed India’s existing renewable solar energy policies and the issues related to farmland-based solar power systems. Based on this analysis, we offer suggestive guidelines for promoting the solar power industry sustainably while mitigating environmental impacts. A Fig. 3. The geographic location of the study area map showing the top eight states with highest installed capacity of photovoltaic solar power. H. Supe et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e23125 5 case study of the Pavagadh solar power plant in Karnataka was conducted to comprehend the drivers of the SAW nexus. This study highlights the role of geospatial remote sensing in monitoring the components of the nexus. The ultimate outcome of this study, a Land Suitability Map (LSM), is intended to furnish decision-makers with a comprehensive tool to facilitate land allocation planning for the development of solar power projects. The objective of the study was to develop a SPI for creating datasets of solar farm locations and their estimated installed capacity and to create a LSM for upcoming solar farm installation keeping in view of nexus from the current scenario. The novelty of the study includes the depiction of the relationship between the solar-agriculture-water (SAW) nexus along with suggestive policies for sustainable management of resources. By considering these objectives, policymakers and stakeholders can make informed decisions to promote the coexistence of solar energy production, agriculture, and water resource management. 2. Study area India is situated in the southern part of the Asian continent, between latitudes 8◦4’ and 37◦6’ north of the Equator, and longitudes 68◦7’ and 97◦25’ east. The country experiences an average annual rainfall of approximately 1250 mm, but this precipitation is highly variable [60]. Some regions witness abundant rainfall, while others receive very little. The Thar Desert and the Himalayan Mountain range play pivotal roles in shaping the country’s climate. Fluctuations in temperature and pressure over the Indian Ocean, the Arabian Sea, and the Bay of Bengal significantly influence the distribution and quantity of rainfall across India. The recorded highest and lowest annual rainfall in India differs by approximately 1178 cm, emphasizing the extent of this variability [60].