 • Thrips: The turmeric thrips (Panchaetothrips indicus) attacks the plant and make the leaves of plant rolls. The leaves gradually turn to pale yellow and the plant dries. This insect attacks mostly during the post monsoon season. • Nematode Pests: This crop is majorly attacked by the nematode pests such as, Root knot nematode (Meloidogyne spp.) and the burrowing type nematodes (Radopholus similis). The best way to control the population multiplication of nematodes and to reduce the damage is by increasing the Land preparation Mulching IISR Pragati (60 DAS) PUSA Rajendra sonia (60 DAS) Indian Farming 41 April 2023 organic content in the soil by the application of FYM or VC (vermicompost). Disease management • Leaf blotch: This disease is caused by Taphrina maculans. In this disease the appearance of small oval, round, rectangular or irregular brown spots on either side of leaves occurs. Later the spots get yellow in colour and gradually turns brown resulting in the yield decrease. • Rhizome rot: This disease is caused by Pythium graminicolum. In this disease the collar region of the pseudo stem is affected and becomes soft and water gets soaked which results in the plant lodging. This can be controlled by treating the seedling rhizome with suitable chemicals or treatments. Harvesting The method to harvest this crop is to dig out the rhizomes with the help of sickle (kudaal), or the land is lightly ploughed and then the rhizomes are hand-picked and washed properly. Generally the harvesting time is around the month of February–March. The harvesting varies according to varieties such as, early variety matures in 7–8 months, mid varieties matures in 8–9 months and late varieties matures after 9 months. Post-harvest management of propagating material The rhizomes obtained by mature harvesting include mother rhizome, seed rhizome and the economical yield. The seedling rhizome can be stored in a ventilated room by making heaps and covering the heap with turmeric leaves. Pits can also be used to store seedling rhizome with sawdust and sand. Later covered the pits with wooden plank and it should have some small holes in it to pass air and maintain proper ventilation. The Processing practices being followed for increasing the quality and shelf-life of production, such as: Drying: In the day time the rhizomes are dried under the sun by spreading them over a 5–7 cm thick layer of bamboo mat. While in the night, the rhizomes are covered with an aerated heaping or covering material. It takes about 10–15 days for the rhizomes to be completely dry. Artificial drying is very helpful in the sliced turmeric, at a temperature of 60oC in the cross flow of hot air. Polishing: The outer surface of rhizomes is covered with dust or root bits, these materials are removed by polishing the rhizomes with the help of abrasion by manual or mechanical rubbing.