 Usually farmers keep the risers towards inner slopes, whereas in paddy growing areas they are erected to facilitate the ponding of water in the field. The bunds are used for growing palatable grasses for livestock and trees such as bael, shisham, mango etc are raised for fuel, fodder and fibre. Sometimes on the risers khus grass is also established. In lower regions the terraces are known as khet (Hilly areas of Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 2 Grassed water ways to avoid water logging in terrace farming It is a common practice during preparation of a field, the slope is kept inside which is provided with channel to take excess water from the field to a safer place and dispose to stream or nala through grassed water ways. This grassed water ways are positioned in such a way that they don't hinder any agricultural activity such as ploughing, hoeing and harvesting.This practice helps to avoid waterlogging during torrential rains which is a requirement for growing maize,capsicum and tomato in rainy season (Upper North West Himalayas). Verma (1998) 3 Interplot stone bunding for soil conservation Cultivation of sloppy lands is done by constructing terraces comprising of plots and sub-plots by using small stones. Stone wall fencing is also constructed for individual land holdings. Terracing of slopy lands helps in conserving soil and moisture and prevents soil erosion. This also helps to carry out other field operations including proper use of irrigation water for checking the surface runoff (cold deserts of Western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 12 METHODS TO CHECK SOIL AND WATER EROSION S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 4 Vegetative barriers for control of sheet erosion Fibrous rooted shrubs and grasses are planted as hedges along the contour of the land to slow the runoff,weaken the erosion power of water and result in deposit of its load of valuable soil behind the hedge rows. As a result, the run off proceeds gently down the slope where hedges have been planted at the correct vertical interval without erosive effect, thus reducing the sheet erosion. In the foot hills, erosive capacity of stream flow is reduced by spurs of loose boulders (Forest areas of the West Himalaya region). Verma (1998) 5 Ash for softening of hard soils Upper layers of hard soils are softened by putting ash obtained from cowdung, sheep/goat manure, fuelwood etc. The fertility status of the soil is also improved (Nubra Valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 Sand bags for gully check This is done in off season before the onset of monsoon in red soils of Anantapur. Empty fertilizer and cement bags filled with sand are piled one above other in five rows fitting to the gully width. Whenever the sand bags are damaged they are replaced. This practice is done by the community, for runoff management and gully control. Gully has a capacity of water storage of 1.5 m3/gully width of 5metres in a single rainfall event (Anantapur, Andhra Pradesh).