 Several other agrarian reforms such as the Integrated Production Program in the 1950s were crucial initiatives. Mrs. Indira Gandhi, the then Prime Minister of India sowed the seeds of the Green Revolution with capable leadership of C Subramaniam, the then Agriculture Minister suitably advised by the visionary scientists Dr. M.S. Swaminathan following the successes of dwarf Mexican varieties developed by Dr. Norman E. Borlaug. The seeds of high yielding dwarf wheat varieties were allowed to be imported and demonstrated at farmers’ fields with irrigation as well as external inputs such as chemical fertilizer and pesticides. The rest is the history. It aided India’s transition from a massive food importer reliant on aid to a food exporter. The Green Revolution increased crop yields in India significantly and saved a large number of people from starvation or malnutrition. Dr. M.S. Swaminathan served as Director General (DG) of the Council during 1972-79. He introduced sea changes in Benjamin Peary Pal (1965-72) Dr. Monkombu Sambasivan Swaminathan (1972-79) Indian Agriculture after Independence 412 the agricultural research system in India. The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was created in 1973; first Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) established in 1974; Agricultural Research Service (ARS) initiated for scientific recruitments through Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board (ASRB) in 1975. Along with structural changes and reforms, the programmatic interventions such as Lab-to-Land and National Agricultural Research Project (NARP) were also launched. With immense contribution made to the agriculture sector in India, he has been decorated with many coveted international and national recognitions and popularly regarded as the father of Indian Green Revolution. This was the period when ICAR-CGIAR relationship started establishing which later ushered into significant outcomes. The ICRISAT was established in India through Dr Swaminathan’s initiatives. Dr. Om Prakash Gautam, served the Council as Director General during1979-1985. He had been instrumental in revitalizing the Indian Agricultural Education System and making the Agricultural Universities as Centers of Excellence. It was during the leadership of Dr N.S. Randhawa, Phase II of the National Agricultural Research Project was implemented with an expanded mandate covering new areas of research such as irrigated farming, horticulture and commercial field crops, agro- forestry and animal nutrition besides development of programs for field testing and refining research results. He was also instrumental in recommending the Rural Work Experience (RAWE) program for imparting practical oriented education module for agriculture degree program. While cereals production has increased substantially after 1965, the oilseed production remained low. In 1986, the Government launched Technology Mission on Oilseeds (TMO) and Dr. M.V.