 It almost seems to me that it is reserved for lay enthusiasts to cut their way through a mountain of difficulties even at the risk of their lives to find the truth. I should be satisfied if scientists would lend their assistance to such humble seekers.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction We take Mahatma’s above statement as a founding principle of our science. We consider seed is the life and has immense possibilities to contribute the nation’s food and health security. We took his message forward and contributed to the nation’s food security thus we become a food surplus country. Though our plates are full, the nutrient content of the food is challenging in terms of balance of essential nutrients. Inadequate nutrients in foods leads to health problems resulting in drastic reduction in individual’s performance. Hence the logical conclusion of the food security is the “nutritional security” and the “Nutri-Revolution” is an order of the day. This, in fact is envisaged by the Father of Our Nation, 100 years ago. Millets, as it is called commonly, comprise of an array of small but strong grain species such as sorghum, pearl millet, finger millet, foxtail millet, kodo millet, little millet proso millet and barnyard millet. Millets are part of the Indian civilization and rural wisdom. Since time immemorial, cultivation of millets is the integral part of the Indian farming. India is considered as either primary or secondary centre of origin for most of the millets and our ancestors were domesticated the millets. “The result of reading all this literature was that dietetic experiments came to take an important place in my life. Health was the principal consideration of these experiments to begin with. 999 cases out of a thousand can be brought round by means of a well-regulated diet, water and earth treatment and similar household remedies” (MK Gandhi, The Story of My Experiment with Truth). Consuming all-cereal-based foods in the last 50 years and less diversification in the food plate causing health risk to the population. The current food habits ultimately lead to development 120 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR of life style disorders such as diabetics, obesity, less immunity and other diseases like cancer. Diversification of food plate is a necessity and food must be diluted with millets since millets by nature bestowed with pack of nutrients which are gluten free and alkaline forming in the gut. The antioxidant components of the millets are very important for the human health since they have anti-cancerous properties, boost immune systems and delay the ageing. These nutrients are important for school-going children, pregnant women and also the other social groups of all ages. Selling antioxidant-enriched millets would economically viable for the start-ups as well as the existing commercial companies through niche-markets. The routine consumption of nutritionally-enriched millets will improve the overall health of the population.