 Goat Crossbreeding in goat with exotic breeds was started to increase milk, meat and mohair production. Exotic breeds such as Alpine, Saanen and Toggenberg were used for improved milk production and Angora for Mohair production. Alpine and Toggenberg were crossed with Sirohi for improving the milk and reproduction performance of the local breeds. Saanen breed showed better performance with both the indigenous breeds than Alpine. Saanen and Malabari cross showed an improvement of 128% in milk yield over Malabari. Saanen×Beetal crosses (75% exotic inheritance) were the best, showing 103.4% improvement over purebred Beetal (AICRP 1985). Alpine × Sirohi and Toggenburg × Sirohi exhibited higher lactation yield than Sirohi. Subsequently, it was observed that purebred selection was more effective than crossbreeding. For improving growth and meat production, Jamunapari and Beetal were used as improver breeds to cross with Black Bengal, Assam local, Sirohi and Sangamneri. Beetal × Black Bengal cross performed better than Jamunapari × Black Bengal cross. The combining ability of four important indigenous breeds was analysed in the PL-480 project involving Jamunapari, Black Bengal, Barbari and Beetal breeds. Indian goat breeds do not produce mohair; however, crossbreeding of Sangamneri and Gaddi with Angora breed yielded mohair. Crossbreds with 87.5% exotic inheritances were found to be the best for mohair production under Indian conditions. However, crosses had higher mortality and mohair production was uneconomical (AICRP 1985). Overall, the crossbreeding did not prove viable as the crossbred were not stable and could not sustain the production in subsequent generations. Majority of goat breeds and non- descript goats in India carry A, B, E and F alleles at αs1-casein locus. Allele A (0.68 to 1.00) and B (0.098 to 0.23), associated with better casein yield, had higher gene frequencies. Allele F was observed in Beetal, Marwari, Chegu and non-descript goats of MP in less than 1% of population. Furthermore, the null allele (β-CnO) of β- casein, which is associated with no synthesis of α-S2 casein protein having higher frequency in Norwegian goats and crossbreeding may result in inheritance of this allele into indigenous goat breeds. Alpine and Saanen goats from France showed αs1-cnE and αs1-cnF allele frequencies as 0.34 and 0.41, respectively. Togenburg, Appenzeller and Verzasca breeds of Switzerland had αs1- cnF frequency was 0.69, 0.44 and 0.62, respectively. Indian goats have higher frequency of A and B alleles indicating better allelic combination for the higher milk protein yield. 3.4. Pig Exotic breed pigs were imported in India in IV-five-year plan (1970-1971) with the launch of AICRP on pig and the main objective was studying the performance of purebred exotic pigs under existing managemental conditions and stabilizing their performance in Indian Agriculture after Independence 142 different agro-climatic conditions of the country.