 Grazing flock of Barbari goats DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 4 Farmer-first, Top priority Reducing Chemical Footprint Realization of higher agricultural production has been associated with higher chemical footprints in the environment. Unbalanced use of fertilizers in agriculture in certain crops /regions is leading to land degradation, water & air pollution, unhealthy ecosystem and unsafe food posing risks to human health. This has brought focused attention of all concerned chemical free farming including organic farming techniques that recover, revitalize and restore the soil and the environment. Reducing the chemical fertilizer use by 20-25% is one amongst the several national priorities that has been set for future agriculture. ICAR shall be working for standardization, validation and demonstration of organic farming including chemical free technologies such as biofertilizers, biopesticides and bio-control agents through its research institutes and KVK network. Reaching the Unreached In order to reduce to the technological gap between Farmer's Farm and Scientist's Lab, the emphasis has been on increasing KVK's engagement DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 5 with farmers through increased use of digital platforms. For example, KVKs have been linked with 3.50 lakh rural common service centers for demand driven information and services to be delivered to the needy farmers by the specialists of KVKs, and research institutes. Besides, two-way communication would be made routine through us of the digital platform named Kisan-SARATHI. So that the knowledge gaps between the farmers and scientists are effectively bridged. Appropriate programs are being conducted by the KVKs in the aspirational districts and low water availability districts. Digital tools in Agriculture In order to facilitate timely monitoring of weather, plant and soil indicators and provide AI based advisory to farmers, the ICAR developed a network of institutions on precision agriculture. This challenging program will be helpful for innovators including school and college going students for digital innovation in agriculture and allied activities by way of their participation in agri-hackathons. It is proposed to set up smart farms in 15 agro-climatic zones, which will fulfill the requirements of teaching, HRD, capacity-building and R&D in the area of smart farming using drones, digital platforms and data analytics. The systematic research on sensor-based economical use of water and fertilizers in farming is required. Strategies and protocols for use of drones, sensor based automation, solar photovoltaic pumping systems etc. that would be demonstrated at these sites, will pave the way for their large scale adoption by the farmers. Frontier Scientific Research Research on agricultural genomics and genome editing would be the core research activity that ICAR will carry forward. In the past, substantial progress has been achieved in these areas.