 There is no difference in the population RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 159 Chilli seedlings in CCARI Bio-4 treated soil (15 DAS) (30 DAS) between standard talc formulation and the value-added formulations. Agro by-product could be added up to 10% (w/w) to the formulation and the other nutrient supplements could add value to the formulation. The value-added formulation was evaluated for its growth promoting efficiency in brinjal and chilli by applying in the soil @ 50 g/m2. Growth parameters (shoot length, root length, shoot weight and root weight) are higher in the value-added formulation compared to untreated control. No adverse effect was noticed in the value added formulation applied treatments. Various nursery studies showed that the new formulation improved plant growth in brinjal and chilli. Toxicological data of mother culture was generated as per the regulatory guidelines. The bacterium is non- toxic and can be used in agriculture for plant health management. Activities carried out amid COVID-19: A team of scientists and technical officer of ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Old Goa has prepared a ‘hand sanitizer’ as per the guidelines for ‘local production of WHO recommended hand rub formulation’ at the Institute laboratory. As per the guidelines, hand sanitizer is prepared using the chemical ingredients-ethyl alcohol or isopropyl alcohol, hydrogen peroxide and glycerol in a prescribed proportion. As a preventive measure, awareness about COVID-19 through distribution of mask and hand sanitizer prepared by Institute was also undertaken from time to time. K Improving livelihood of the tribal/scheduled caste farmers through upscaling the technologies Under STC and SCSP program farm and process machinery, technologies developed by ICAR-CCARI like seeds of newly released varieties of paddy, planting material of newly released varieties of cashew, bio-control agents, organic and fertilizer nutrients with soil health cards, pest and disease control agro- chemicals, vegetable seeds, farm tools, pheromone traps and lure traps for pests, fishing gear, artificial fish habitats, arecanut dehusking machines, electric cabinet dryer, sealing machine, mini rotary tiller, power sprayer, brush cutter, coconut tree climbers, bypass fat, milking machines, etc. have been distributed. Training and awareness required was also carried out for capacity building of the farmers. The activity was undertaken for livelihood improvement of the tribal and schedule caste farmers across the Goa and coastal districts of Maharashtra and Karnataka. — Narendra Modi A farmer is a magician who produces money from the mud. 16. Organization and Management Department of Agricultural Research and Education The Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) was established in the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India in December 1973 to coordinate and promote agricultural research and education in the country.