 67 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-III UTTAR PRADESH Paddy DSR Rice Transplanting after repeated puddling is the conventional method of rice (Oryza sativa) growing which is not only intensive water user but also cumbersome and laborious Direct seeded rice (DSR), probably the oldest method of crop establishment, is gaining popularity because of its low-input demand. It offers certain advantages viz., it saves labour, requires less water, less drudgery, early crop maturity, low production cost, better soil physical conditions for following crops and less methane emission, provides better option to be the best fit in different cropping systems. In present scenario when human interaction is avoided the machine driven DSR technology is better option for planting rice Varieties: MTU-7029, Pusa Sugandha 4, Pusa Rice Hybrid 10, NDR- 9930111, Sambha Sub-1 and NDR-9436 Land preparation yy Plow the fields during summer to control emerging weeds yy Levelling the fields well facilitates uniform irrigation and better germination Machinery Requirement yy Minimum-till drill/Power tiller drill yy Zero-till drill yy Bed drilling Seed depth and soil moisture yy Optimum depth of seed:2-3 cm. The seed should be covered by soil for proper germination and to avoid bird damage. yy In lowlands and finer textured soils, planking may not be necessary after seeding. 68 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Soil moisture content at seeding should be sufficient for proper germination yy Surface mulch: helps retain soil moisture longer to improve emergence and reduce weed menace Seed rate and cultivars for DSR yy Seed rate:60 to 80 kg/ha, in general yy Fine grain and Basmati cultivars require much less seed yy Early to medium short duration cultivars having early vigor yy Tested cultivars are: Hardinath1, Sabitri, Sonamasuli, Radha11 and Radha 4, Pusa Basmati-1 Seeding time yy Drill the dry seed of normal rice at the start of monsoon i.e. when farmers put seed into nursery bed yy May 3rd week to June 2nd week (Jesth 1st week to Jesth 3rd week ) Seed treatment: yy Seed treatment with recommended fungicide is necessary to manage soil born diseases. For this weighed quantity of seeds are soaked in water + fungicide (Bavistin @ 1g/kg rice seed or Emisan @ 1gm/kg rice seed) solution for 24 hours. Amount of water used for soaking is equivalent to quantity of seed used for seed treatment. After 24 hours, seeds are removed from fungicide solution and dried in shade for 1-2 days until sprouting is seen before sowing. Seed treatment with imidacloprid (Guicho/imidiate) @ 3ml/kg seed alone to protect from soil-borne pathogens such as termites or other insects or in combination with tebuconazole (raxil) @ 1 ml/kg seed to protect from both soil borne fungi and insects have been found effective in improving uniform crop establishment. Fertilizer management: yy Fertilizer recommendation for DSR is same as for puddled transplanted rice.