0 tonnes/ha Soil 15 days before planting Neem cake 0.50 tonnes/ha Soil 7 days before planting Azospirillum + Phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB) 200% (200 g/litre) root dip for 15 min Seedling treatment At planting Vermicompost 2.5 tonnes/ha Soil 20 DAP Cow urine 20% (urine:water 1:4) Soil drench At 15 days interval Farmyard manure application Use of plastic mulch in Dalle khursani Indian Farming 16 March 2023 while picking, the fruits are lifted gently off the plant without causing injury or breakage of stem. Second year of plant gives more yield and after third year yield declines. Normally, fruit yield ranges from 80–150 q/ha with average productivity of 120 q/ha. Generally, off season fruits are being sold up to `450/kg but we have calculated its economics at the lowest rate of `100/kg. The average net return of `10,25,000/ha resulting in very high benefit: cost (B:C) ratio of 6.8. Production efficiency and economic efficiency of red cherry pepper were recorded 63.15 kg/ha/day and `5394.7/ha/day respectively. On the other hand, value addition of red cherry pepper fruits may fetch 2.8–3.2 times higher income than the price of fresh fruits being sold in the market which will be better option for doubling the income of farmers in Sikkim. Major problems Aphids: Aphids (Aphis gossypii and Myzus persicae) locally known as Lye kira suck the sap and reduce plant growth and produce honey dew which attracts ants and develops sooty mould in the lower part of the leaves. They also act as vector for viral diseases. Application of systemic bio-pesticide, i.e. Verticillium lecani/petroleum based oil spray or neem based formulation (2000 ppm) @5 ml/litre of water sprayed 4–5 times at weekly interval will be effective to manage the aphid infestation problem. Fruit fly: Fruit drops are main concern in red cherry pepper. This is because of fruit fly as well as plant nutrient competition among the fruits. Placing 8–10 pheromone traps per hectare at the time of fruit set and collection, and destruction of dropped fruits at regular interval manages the problem. The same control measures of aphids can be adopted to minimise the fruit fly problem. Late blight: It is one of the diseases of red cherry pepper family (Solanaceous) crops worldwide, caused by the pathogen Phytophthora infestans. Late blight is favoured by high humidity, dew, wet weather and moderate temperatures (50–80°F). When the environment is favourable, the disease can spread quickly and can defoliate fields within 3 weeks. It can be managed by spraying of copper oxychloride (COC) @0.25–0.3%. Regular spray of Trichoderma viride or Trichoderma harzianum @1% can be adopted for the management of other diseases of this crop. Constraints of production • Higher labour charges are the major constraints for chilli production. Due to increased opportunities in other sectors, labour force is shrinking day by day for agricultural sector, resulting in hike in labour charges.