 Recent initiatives for agriculture and farmers are ‘Pradhan Mantri Krishi Sinchai Yojna’ for irrigation water, e-NAM (a pan India electronic trading portal), ‘Soil Health Card’ to assess status of soil health, ‘Kisan Sampada Yojna’ for Agro- Marine Processing and Development of Agro-Processing Clusters, Kisan Credit Card for animal husbandry and fisheries. Agriculture contributes to 20 per cent in GDP at current prices; its Net foreign exchange earnings are quite significant as value of agricultural export is more than double the value of agricultural imports. It is remarkable that agriculture in India sustaining food and nutrition security of 1.38 billion people despite global food price shocks. Main challenges in agriculture in future are climate change, sustainable use of water and soils, increasing farmers’ income and improving nutritional security. For nutritional sustainability, we need diversification towards nutri cereals by price support and by making value chains for achieving profitability and sustain growth in livestock sector. Horticultural crops would be main focus for processing and reducing post harvest losses by increasing their shelf life. Along with, a shift is required from costly growth to efficient growth; food security to nutrition security and health; linking production to processing for job creation and balancing need with capacity. 11 Sustainable Agriculture Some suggestions for the National Agricultural Research Systems (NARS) are National Agricultural Research Systems should reprioritize and reallocate resources and manpower over commodities, themes and states based on future scenario; Redefine research goals like wider adaptation to agro climatic based productivity; Yield maximization to minimization of average cost/ unit of output; High priority to agro forestry with cropping system and more active involvement with private sector. Key takeaways Reprioritize and reallocate resources and manpower over commodities, themes and space based on future projections. Drive Private sector vehicle to carry technology from lab to land. Active participation of the private sector in agricultural activities is desired utmost for agricultural growth and raising farmers' income. 12 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series AGRICULTURAL, FOOD AND NUTRITIONAL SECURITY THE CHANGING TECHNOLOGY LANDSCAPE Renu Swarup “The future of the food security will depend on a combination of the eco- logical prudence of the past and the technological advances of today” M.S. Swaminathan. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) aim to end all forms of hunger and malnutrition by 2030, making sure all people, especially children, have sufficient and nutritional food all-year round. This involves promoting sustainable agricultural practices such as supporting small scale farmers and allowing equal access to land, technology and markets.