com For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel : 011-25843657, Fax 91-11-25841282; e-mail : bmicar@gmail.com Textbook of Field Crops Production – Foodgrain Crops TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS No. of pages : i-xii + 396 • Price : ` 700 • Postage : ` 100 • ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-116-1 The first edition of Textbook of Field Crops Production was published in 2002 and there has been a heavy demand for the book. This book is now being brought out in two volumes. The chapters cover emerging trends in crop production such as System of Rice Intensification (SRI), export quality assurance in the production technology of commodities like Basmati rice, organic farming, resource conservation technologies, herbicide management etc. Good agronomic practices must judiciously inter-mix the applications of soil and plant sciences to produce food, feed, fuel, fibre, and of late nutraceuticals while ensuring sustainability of the system in as much possible environment and eco-friendly manner. The advent of hydroponics, precision farming, bio-sensors, fertigation, landscaping, application of ICT, GPS and GIS tools, micro-irrigation etc. is in the horizon. The textbook covers both the fundamentals of the subject and at the same time inspire and prepare both teachers and students for the emerging frontiers. (Volume I) Indian Horticulture 32 T Uma Maheswari* Soursop – A wonder fruit Soursop (Annona muricata L.) which belongs to Annonaceae family is an evergreen tree species known for its anti-cancer properties, due to its annonaceous acetogenins content. It is a native of Central America and bears the largest fruit among Annonas. It is mostly distributed in tropical and subtropical regions of the world. In regions where sweet fruits are preferred, as in South India and Guam, the soursop has not enjoyed great popularity. Soursop grows on a limited scale in Southern India, in states like Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Kerala. It also thrives wild throughout the Southern Sub-tropical India. Prospects T HE soursop is truly tropical. It does not tolerate frost and grows well in well-drained and semi-dry soil up to an elevation of 300 msl. The optimal range of latitude is between 27ºN and 22.5ºS. It grows and produces well at 21 to 30ºC, being very sensitive to severe changes in temperature, especially if the limit of 12ºC is reached. Young trees in exposed places are killed only by a few degrees of frost. Temporary defoliation and interruption of fruiting occurs when the temperature drops near freezing. However, good productive orchards are found at altitudes of up to 1,100 m. Soursop (Annona muricata) has three general classification: sweet, sub-acid and acid and then subdivided as round, heart-shaped, oblong or angular and finally classed according to flesh consistency which varies from soft and juicy to firm and comparatively dry.