 The cost of various sizes (50 m2‐400 m2) of rooftop rainwater harvesting structures was estimated. The technology is ready to be adopted by individual householders, Government agencies, Institutions etc. • Regression models have been developed and validated for estimation of water table fluctuation, recharge, distance up to which the influence of percolation tank exists etc., at Jabalpur center for different percolation tanks in hard rock zones. • At Rahuri center under the study of development of the model for groundwater recharge through percolation tank, DEM, Land use/land cover map, land capability map, hydrologic soil group map and hydro‐geomorphologicl and groundwater potential map etc., were prepared using soil map, topographical map and IRS‐IC, 1D‐ LISS‐III and Panchromatic satellite data. Regression models have been developed and validated for the percolations tanks under study. • The total recharge from the Shingave percolation tank was 94 percent of the total estimated inflow into the tank. The influence of the percolation tank in recharging the well was up to 888 m. Studies indicated if the resources are optimally used, 188 ha of land could be brought under irrigation generating the income of Rs 28410 per hectare. • The influence of the percolation tank of capacity of 69.6 ha m at Pimpalgaon, Ujjaini (Maharashtra) was found up to 875 m. The estimation of groundwater recharge and draft over the period of observations indicated that the groundwater draft from the area is 15 times more than the groundwater recharge indicating the excessive mining of groundwater. • Water balance of Karonda tank (Maharashtra) results into average percolation of 316.2 m3/day during dry season (38 SMW onwards). Out of total storage of 79,636 m3 of water in Karonda tank about 10% percolates down for recharging the groundwater. www.icar.org.in 75 2002‐2007 Theme IV: Groundwater pollution • The study at Rahuri center on assessment of distribution of groundwater pollution and soil pollution in sugar factory area it was observed that the deterioration of groundwater quality near the lagoons was due to the presence of Mg++, Na++, HCO3, CO3, and C1. The analysis of the well water and soil samples from the study area showed that as the distance from lagoon increased, the quality of groundwater and soil improved. As per the results on an average 835.20 ha area was found highly polluted in respect of EC & pH during the summer season. After monsoon the polluted area was seen reduced by 14.2%. • From the study under taken at Jabalpur center on soil aquifer treatment (SAT), it was found that clay soils are more impaired after sewage treatment, and loamy sand soil is found to be the best as capacity of treatment is concerned. This percolates sewage water at a rate of 22.5 cm per day. Drying for 10 days and again wetting the soil for treatment gives better result than continuous wetting.