 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTEM (NARS) INFRASTRUCTURE The growth and spread of the ICAR has been phenomenal starting from the Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory, Pune, in 1889 and the Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, Bihar, in 1905. On date, the ICAR comprises 46 central research institutes (CRIs) that include 4 national institutes : Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi; Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar; National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal and the Central Fisheries Research Institute, NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SYSTEM Crop Horti Animal Fish- Agricultural Science culture Science ries Education National Institute 1 2 1 Central Research 8 8 6 5 Ae Institute National Bureau 1 1 1 National Research 7 10 7 1 Centre Project Directorate 5 1 2 AlHndia Coordinated 26 17 16 Research Project Soil, Agronomy & Agricultural Agroforestry Engineering Central Research 8 5 Institute National Bureau National Research 3 Centre Project Directorate 2 AlHndia Coordinated 15 10 Research Project GENERAL Indian Agricultural Statistical Research Institute, New Delhi National Centre of Agricultural Economics & Policy Research, New Delhi Twenty-nine state agricultural universities. *National Academy of Agricultural Research Management. Bombay; 4 national bureaux: for plant, animal, fish genetic resources and for soils; 10 project directorates (PDs); 26 national research centres (NRCs); the National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM) and 84 all-India coordinated research projects (AICRPs). It is also operating World Bank Projects and Projects for Tribals (besides 2 Alllndia Coordinated Projects for Tribals, Scheduled Castes and Other Backward Communities and schemes for their upliftment). With the assistance of the ICAR, 29 state agricultural universities (SAUs) have been established in the country including the Central Agricultural University at Imphal, for the north- east region of the country. A BIG EMPLOYER On the pay-roll of the ICAR are 30,000 personnelin different categories. Nearly 7,000 are engaged in active research and its management, and in clearing of information generated in the National Agricultural Research System. They are all postgraduates in agriculture and allied sciences. The state agricultural universities employ scientists for teaching, research and extension-education assignments. INTERNATIONAL LINKAGES Research and resources cut across nations. The developed and developing nations do not appear as donors and recipients but as members of a family which seeks to organize its resources, its output and its consumption, so as to become a balanced harmonious community. The ICAR has been a partner in International Cooperation over a hundred years. The Imperial Bacteriological Laboratory established in 1889, at present the Indian Veterinary Research Institute, first evolved the goat-adapted Rinderpest vaccine in 1927 that is in use the world over.