 Irrigation, soil and water engineering The demand for foodgrains in India is projected to be around 355 Mt and 180 Mt vegetables by 2030 and strategies to attain them are water-intensive. India uses over 80% of its fresh water for agriculture, the efficient use of which is paramount. We also use water inefficiently through surface irrigation with an irrigation efficiency of about 40%. Micro-irrigation is an effective scientific alternative for higher irrigation efficiency of 70-90%. The evolution in micro irrigation during past two decades has broken the myth that this system is only applicable to wider spaced perennial horticultural fruit crops. The micro-irrigation has made inroads in field crops like wheat, sugarcane, vegetables, pulses etc. In some of the non-traditional areas like sand dunes of western Haryana, micro irrigation made wheat cultivation possible. In recognition of the importance of micro irrigation, the Government Achievements in Agricultural Engineering in Independent India 287 laid larger emphasis on it since 1992 and launched a scheme in 2006 which later upgraded into the National Mission on Micro-irrigation in 2010. Later in 2015, the micro-irrigation became the part of PM Krishi Sinchayee Yojana (PMKSY). Fig. 3. Growth in the micro-irrigation over the years Realizing the importance of ‘more crop per drop’ and complementing the ongoing developmental initiatives in micro irrigation, ICAR initiated research on micro-irrigation system for mango, guava and ber orchards as early as in mid-eighties. The infrastructure for testing of drip emitters and filters was created and large scale field demonstration installed on micro-irrigation systems and their overhead components for the benefit of farmers and other users of the technology. Sub-surface drip lateral laying machine and trencher for installation of main/sub-main pipes were developed by ICAR. The cumulative R&D efforts enhanced the area under micro-irrigation from 0.90 million ha (Mha) in 1998 to 12.91 Mha in 2021. 4. Post-harvest processing and value addition 4.1. Food crops The post-harvest processing research in ICAR started primarily after starting ICAR-All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Post-harvest Technology in 1972 and there was hardly any scientific data for post-harvest losses during the period. The hand- operated winnowers were among the first primary processing equipment introduced during 1950-55. They were very popular for blowing away of lighter impurities after manual or animal-assisted threshing. This is the time when mechanized or industrialized rice milling was also introduced with cleaning and grading devices operated by motor or engines. The hullers, the main equipment used for milling of paddy were replaced by rubber roll sheller based rice milling during later years.