 Healed tongue after treatment by gingelly oil + pig fat + banana and lameness that were brought for treatment to Large Animal Clinic, Madras Veterinary College Hospital and Veterinary Hospital, Mayiladuthurai were used for this study (Fig. 1a-d). Based on the history, physical examination and laboratory examination, it was tentatively diagnosed as foot-and mouth-disease. Sixty foot-and-mouth disease-affected cattle were divided into two groups (I and II) of 30 each. The animals (9 calves, 17 heifers, 3 cows and 1 bullock) in first group (Group I) were treated with gingelly oil, pig fat and banana mixture for oral application twice a day for 7 days. The Group I was further divided into 3 subgroups A, B and C of 10 animals each. For subgroup A, neem oil alone was applied to the foot lesions for 7 days. For subgroup B a mixture of Gloriosa superba and liquid paraffin was applied to the foot lesion for 7 days and for subgroup C a mixture of Gloriosa superba and neem oil paste was applied to the foot lesions for 7 days. The application was done twice a day and the results were studied. The second group (Group II) (7 calves, 13 heifers, 8 cows and 2 bullocks) of animals were treated twice a day for 7 days with boroglycerine and Lorexane ointment for oral and foot lesions respectively. The clinical symptoms and haematology were studied in sick groups before and after the treatment. Group I: For oral lesion, gingelly oil, pig fat and banana mixture in under mentioned composition were used. Gingelly oil - 250 ml Pig fat - 10 drops Banana - 4 fruits Its ground mixture was used for oral application, twice a day for 7 days. For foot lesion 3 subgroups (each group 10 animals), were formed: (i) neem oil alone, (ii) Gloriosa superba and liquid paraffin, and (iii) Gloriosa superba and neem oil. These substances were applied twice a day for 7 days. Group II: For oral lesions, boric acid and glycerin paste for oral application twice a day for 7 days. For foot lesions, Lorexane cream twice a day for 7 days. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study Results of the field study obtained on foot-and-mouth disease management, time taken to control, amount spent and adverse effect are shown in Fig.1. Experiment Foot-and-mouth disease is a contagious, acute viral disease of all cloven-footed animals, causing great economic loss to the cattle owners. The clinical parameters such as clinical signs and complete blood count were studied in  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Fig. 1. Relative performance of different types of treatments for controlling FMD apparently healthy group only once and in sick cattle before and after the treatment. Clinical examination The clinical examination was carried out both in apparently healthy and sick animals. In apparently healthy animals, all the 30 animals were bright, alert and had good appetite. Their eyes were bright and prominent and the visible mucous membrane was pale pink and moist. They had normal body temperature.