 It will be useful to the scientists, editors and others involved in publishing work and it will be a permanent repository of photo library. ICAR Vision 2020 Document ARIC was associated with the conversion of ICAR Vision 2020 policy document into an electronic format that makes navigation through all the chapters an easy task for the user. This is the first CD on policy document developed in the ICAR system. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 230 All-India Coordinated Research Projects Database (AICRP) ARIC developed database on 82 AICRPs, covering information on title, code number, PC name centres, objectives, date of start, date of completion, budget, manpower, research achievements, AGROVOC keywords, technologies developed, QRT recommendations, publications, abstract of each project. A CD, with search facilities, will be released soon on this database which will be useful for monitoring the AICRPs at the Council’s headquarters and act as a national information source. International Cooperation The information published in Indian journals on agricultural and allied sciences was documented, processed and supplied to FAO for inclusion in the global database i.e. AGRIS. One thousand six hundred published articles were documented and sent for this purpose. Checking Duplication of Research Efforts With a view to avoid wasteful duplication of research efforts, ARIC scrutinized about six hundred ad hoc research scheme proposals, received from different Divisions of ICAR and Project Coordinators. These proposals were compared with the research schemes already sanctioned for financial support from the Council’s AP Cess Fund. The comparison was made on the basis of project title, its objectives and assigned keywords to each of the proposals. Web Page of DIPA Web page of DIPA was modified and upgraded with free text search facilities for books, journals, adhoc schemes and ICAR Telephone Directory. Information about 150 English and Hindi books was updated. Also the information about title, author and abstract of articles of all ICAR English journals published from 2000 onwards, was incorporated in the web page. All the issues of ICAR News and ICAR Reporter from 2000 onwards were also included. DIPA Library Activities DIPA Library was equipped with a collection of about 3,017 books, 1,100 annual reports of ICAR institutes and SAUs, 5,500 issues of different periodicals and newsletters. The Library procured about 1,100 books, 65 annual reports and 360 journals during the reporting period. It provided services to the scientists, students and DIPA staff. ICAR Library The ICAR Library added 1,800 publications to its collection during the year. About 14,000 readers visited the library and consulted 20,000 publications for reference and information searches.