 Anonymous (1991d) 196 Control of insect by bonfire Farmers in the irrigated area light fire in the night to attract the larvae of insects. Anonymous (1991c) 197 Flowers to repel insects in various crops Extract of hippe (Bassia latifolia) or honge (Pongamia glabra) flowers are used to control insect attack on pulses, lemon, and watermelon (Karnataka). Basavaraju (1998b) 198 Control of crawling insects by boundary trenching Farmers make trench of 1-1.5 feet broad and 1-2 feet deep surrounding the entire field. Trench is filled by water so that the crawling insects and larvae can not cross the trench (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Malakia (19991) 199 Cultural practices to avoid pests Early sowing of rainy season (kharif) sorghum is done to avoid shoot fly and July sowing to reduce semilooper incidence in castor. Short duration (110 days) sorghum to avoid earhead bug in red soils, medium to long duration pigeonpea to avoid Heliothis (Helicoverpa) in black soils. Use of bonfire to minimize certain pests at moth stage in groundnut in Rayalaseema region and sprinkling of boiled rice or with other food grains to attract birds as predators (Telangana, Andhra Pradesh). Subba Reddy and Singh (2001) 200 Pest control by ploughing Pest control is done by ploughing the field after harvesting of rabi crops (Gonda, Uttar Pradesh). Anonymous (2000c) 86 PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 201 Management of striga in sorghum by trap crop of coriander Sowing of coriander seeds between sorghum rows controls striga, a root parasite because the alkaloids in coriander root exudates inhibit the growth of striga (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 202 Control of insects in mustard To save the mustard crop from insects, dusting of ash is done in the early morning (Tehari Garhwal, Uttaranchal). Devi (2000) 203 Pest and disease control in groundnut, chilli and brinjal by a mixture of chilli,neem and castard apple A herbal pesticide has been evolved for control of different insect pests and diseases of groundnut, chilli and brinjal. The mixture of various botanicals is prepared as follows. About 1.5 kg leaves of castard apple (Anona squamosa) are gound and approximately 200 ml of water is added to it, well mixed and filtered. The filtrate is kept aside. (ii) About 500 g of dry fruits of chilli (Capsicum annum) are soaked in water overnight and filtered. (iii) About 1.0 kg of neem fruits (Azadirachta indica) are crushed and soaked in 2 litres of water overnight and the extract is filtered. These 3 filtrates are added to 10 litres of water and mixed throughly and used as herbal pesticide and sprayed on the crop. Approximately 35-40 litres of this pesticide mixture is required for one spray in 0.16 ha of land. This home made preparation help farmers save Rs 800 which they would have otherwise spent on chemical pesticides (Junagadh, Gujarat).