 The dissemination of improved technology through agricultural extension systems plays a crucial role in their scaling up and scaling out. In actuality, the agri­ cultural extension system covers demand side variables such as aware­ ness generation, risk reduction, and skill enhancement [8]. All of these elements play an essential role in the widespread adoption and distri­ bution of advancements in technologies [9]. There is substantial literature on the adoption of agricultural tech­ nology in India. This literature varies widely by the type of agricultural technologies, crops, natural resources, and specific situations, such as the management of pests and diseases [10]. The widespread lack of literacy among Indian farmers is a barrier to their adoption of technological advancements in agriculture practices [11]. Although they have been shown to be beneficial in terms of increasing productivity, reducing costs, and generating higher returns, the numerous initiatives that have been taken by both the public and private sectors toward the adaptability of ICT in agriculture have not generated the desired result in terms of awareness and adaptability [12, 13]. In 2014, According to the National Mission For Sustainable Agri­ culture (NMSA), the Government of India, agricultural growth can be sustained by promoting the conservation and sustainable use of natural resources by adopting appropriate location-specific measures. This is made possible by using new and emerging technologies in India [14]. Also, the Indian Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare mentioned that by adopting improved technologies, productivity, and farmers’ in­ come can be increased by setting an ambitious goal to double farmers’ income by 2022. This goal can be accomplished by increasing the adoption of improved technologies. Unfortunately, this report has not discussed the variables affecting the current acceptance rate of new technologies in Indian agriculture [15]. Shetty et al. (2014) [16] presented a study report on the Agricultural Innovation System in India. They have concentrated their efforts on the rice and wheat industries in six districts spread throughout India’s main food grain-producing states: Andhra Pradesh, Haryana, Karnataka, and Punjab. They endeavoured to discover the factors responsible for the slowdown or stop in the production of food grains. This study uncovered several facts about farmers’ challenges in various production contexts, such as the presence of pests and diseases, limitations in policy-related finance facilities, marketing, input supply, infrastructure availability, and so on. An investigation was carried out by Pandey and Kumar in 2019 in the agricultural institutions of the northern states of India. According to this investigation, a lack of infrastructure and training facilities are more Table 1 The worldwide adoption of various agricultural technologies and their utilisation.