 This Work Plan was signed under the provision of Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for Cooperation in Agricultural Research and Education signed on 16 May 1994 between ICAR, New Delhi, India and IFDC, Alabama, USA. • A Work Plan for the period 2020–2021 was signed on 13.02.2020 between ICAR, New Delhi, India, an autonomous body under the aegis of DARE and The Agricultural Research Council, Pretoria, South Africa. This Work Plan was signed under the MoU for Cooperation in Agricultural Research and Education signed on 26 July 2018 between ICAR, New Delhi, India and The Agricultural Research Council, Pretoria, South Africa. • A Work Plan for the period 2017–2019 signed on 3 October, 2017 between ICAR, New Delhi, India, an autonomous body under the aegis of DARE and The Sri Lanka Council for Agricultural Research Policy (SLCARP), Sri Lanka was extended up to December, 2020. This Work Plan was signed under the MoU between ICAR, New Delhi, India and Sri Lanka Council of Agricultural Research Policy (SLCARP), Sri Lanka for scientific and technical cooperation concluded on 2 July 1998. • Work Plan for the period 2020–25 between ICAR and International Food Policy Research Institute was signed on 1 May 2020. Work-plan (2020– 25) was developed in accordance with the MoU signed between ICAR and IFPRI in 1988 and for keeping with their desire to promote and accelerate the collaborative efforts for research and training in food and agricultural policy. • An MoU was signed on 23 October 2020 between ICAR, New Delhi, India and Asia-Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI), Bangkok, Thailand for cooperation in agricultural research and education. Collaborative research projects Following projects are under different stages of progress. • “Exploitation of Inter-specific Diversity for Durum Wheat Improvement” in collaboration with University of Nottingham, International Center for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA) and International Wheat and Maize Research Centre (CIMMYT) and ICAR-Indian Institute of Wheat and Barley Research (IIWBR), Karnal for the year 2015–2018 and extended for the year 2019. • Deployment of high-yielding stress tolerant and top industrial quality durum wheat elites to targeted growing regions of India, in collaboration with Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI), New Delhi and International Centre for Agricultural Research in the Dry Areas (ICARDA). • Management and mitigation of the spread of Tropical Race 4 of Fusarium wilt on Banana— Mapping of the TR 4 affected area of Banana in India, in collaboration with ICAR-National Research Centre for Banana (NRCB), Trichy and Bioversity International (BI), Rome, Italy. • Evaluation of Sunflower pre-bred lines for stress resistance and associated trade-offs with yield. • Impact of emerging nanomaterials and environmental contaminants on human and livestock reproductive health and identification of biomarkers.