 Total chlorophyll content in leaf and T2 and T3 treatments soluble sugar content showed a significant decrease at later stage, whereas in other treatments sugar content increased. Soluble sugar content present in the bark is lower than that in the leaf. In the bark at the later stages there is an increasing trend in total soluble sugar content in all the treatments except T1. The starch found in the leaf and bark under control treatment was significantly more than in other treatments. Lower amount of soluble sugar and higher amount of starch in control compared with other treatments proves the conversion of simple sugar to starch. This is further proved from the observation in T2 and T3, where, with maturity in leaves the soluble sugar content decreased and starch increased. Rate of simple sugar to starch conversion was more pronounced under different bending and pruning treatments than that in the control. The present observation also shows that accumulation of soluble sugar and starch in leaves was also influenced by their translocation behaviour from the bark. The pattern in the amount of reducing sugar present in the leaves was same as found for total soluble sugar. In bark, the reducing sugar content increased under control treatment with maturity, but all the bending and pruning treatments showed a decreasing trend in reducing sugar content and the difference was statistically significant. This proved the sple influence of bending and pruning bark of guava shoots under different treatments Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 11. Carbohydrate content in leaf and bark of guava shoots under different bending and pruning treatments treatments in decreasing the reducing sugar content in bark. The decline in total soluble sugar with maturity under T2 and T3 might be attributed to the fact of declining in chlorophyll content (Table 9) in leaves with maturity, resulting in less CO2 fixation and reduced the rate of carbohydrate formation. Another reason for this type of behaviour might be due to the loss of 80% of Calvin cycle enzyme activity, due to transformation of chloroplasts to chromoplasts. T1 (bending) and T4 (20 cm pruning) showed a profound effect in accumulating total soluble sugar and starch with maturity. Yield Guava yield under different treatments is shown in Table 12. The number of fruits retained up to harvest/branch, number of fruits retained up to harvest/plant, average fruit weight (g) and total yield/plant (kg) were taken into consideration as the yield parameters to Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE distinguish the effect of different bending and paining treatments from the control. In all the yield parameters, the bending and pruning treatment showed a marked, positive and significant effect over control. T1 (bending) produced the highest yield (48.64 kg/plant) followed by T4 (20 cm pruning, 23.03 kg/plant), T2 (one leaf pair pruning, 21.13 kg/plant), T3 (10 cm pruning, 18.