 Agro-industrial by- products in animal feeds. Unit 4: Reproduction Management Reproductive systems of farm animals and birds. Climate and nutrition affecting reproductive performance in farm animals. Importance of early pregnancy diagnosis. Methods of heat detection. Artificial insemination. Oestrous prediction and synchronization. Causes of disturbed fertility and its prevention in farm animals. Management factors affecting reproductive efficiency. Summer and winter management problems and their solutions. Unit 5: Shelter Management Housing systems, Selection of site and lay out of animal and poultry houses. Space requirement for livestock and poultry, Housing designs in different agro-climatic regions. Macro and micro- climatic changes affecting designs of animal and poultry houses. BIS (standards) for livestock and poultry housing. Construction of cheap animal and poultry housing utilizing local resources. Automation in 51 livestock farming. Types & designs of Milking parlours suitable for different scales of production. Disposal of animal wastes under urban and rural conditions. Disposal of carcasses. Unit 6: Health Management General approach to livestock health programmes. Prevention of diseases. Hygiene and sanitation on animal farm. Symptoms of ill health, important infectious diseases of livestock and poultry and their control. Vaccination schedules in animals and poultry. Internal and external parasites and their control. Accidental health disorders and their control. Common disinfectants used on animal farms. Concept of first aid at farms. Segregation and quarantine management for large animals and birds. Quarantine Act, Zoonotic diseases, labour health programme. Unit 7: Production and Management of Cattle and Buffalo Cattle and buffalo production trends and factors affecting them. Prenatal and postnatal care and management of cattle and buffalo. Care of neonates and young calves. Management strategies for reducing mortality in calves, age at first calving, and calving intervals. Management to improve reproductive efficiency in cattle and buffalo. Management strategies against summer & winter stress. Feed conversion efficiency for growth and milk production. Application of body condition scoring & other scoring techniques to improve productivity & efficiency of dairy animals. Milking management: hand vs machine milking practices. Standard milking protocols for clean milk production. Management practices for high yielding cows & buffaloes. Standard norms for manpower deployment for dairy farms & measures for improving labour efficiency. Dairy farm management efficiency measures. Mechanization & automation of various dairy farm operations (milking, feeding, waste disposal, heat detection, identification & health monitoring). Unit 8: Production and Management of Other Animals Draft animals: Population dynamics of various categories of draft and work animals in India. Characteristics of draft animals.