 As a signal of the strong partnership between IRRI Dr Jean Balié is the Director General of the International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) and the Regional Director for Southeast Asia and the Pacific of Consultative Group for International Agricultural Research (CGIAR). He has over two decades of experience in leadership and expertise in developing policies for agriculture, food and rural development. As Director General, Dr Balié set the global strategic direction of the institute and manages its affairs in accordance with the policies and decisions of the IRRI Board of Trustees. 144 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series and India, Prime Minister Narendra Modi himself inaugurated the Resilient Rice Field Laboratory in the IRRI headquarters (2017) and the IRRI South Asia Regional Center (ISARC) in Varanasi (2018). More recently, on 23 December 2021, the IRRI Speed Breeding Facility (SpeedBreed) at ISARC was inaugurated by the Prime Minister. The collaboration continues to bring value for mutual benefits through various initiatives such as contribution to germplasm. India has contributed to the germplasm that is preserved in IRRI’s Rice Gene bank, which has 132, 290 accessions. India is the number one contributor with 17,595 accessions, which is 13 per cent of total. Improved varieties through Interna- tional Rice Gene Bank According to the study, Farm-Level Impact of the International Rice Gene bank (IRG) on Improved Rice Varieties, evidence from Eastern India shows that 45–77 per cent of the genetic composition of an improved rice variety comes from the genes of IRG accessions and a 10 per cent increase in the definite genetic contribution of the IRG is associated with a 27 per cent increase in rice yields. Germplasm from the IRRI has played an important role in India’s annual rice output by increasing the average additional rice production by 18 million tons/year, which is 17 per cent of the country’s annual rice output. Net contribution of the IRRI germplasm alone is nearly 9 per cent of India’s annual rice output. Overall contribution of the IRRI germplasm based high-yielding rice varieties (HYVs) to yield growth was 18 per cent. The number of high yielding rice varieties released in India was 1066 from 1966 to 2015. One IRRI Breeding Strategy IRRI developed the One Rice Breeding Strategy to create a demand-driven, region-specific breeding framework that provides global breeding centers with common terminology, procedure and implementation systems that help CG-NARES to breed climate resilience, nutritionally rich rice varieties with the speed of climate change. In order to implement the breeding strategy, IRRI also developed One IRRI Breeding Network through a close partnership with >50 Universities and Institutes in South Asia and mapped 7 out of 9 breeding pipelines for early, medium and late duration of pipelines for transplanted and DSR situations.