 1940 Development of Ranikhet Disease Vaccine at IVRI, Mukteswar, Uttarakhand. 1940 Collection centres and distribution network were set up for linking the rural milk producers in Bombay with the urban consumers. 1946 Cooperative movement started in dairying with the establishment of the Kaira Dis- trict Cooperative Milk Producers Union (AMUL) in Gujarat. 2. Animal husbandry in ancient India 2.1. Pre-vedic era and the Harappan ethos Valuable information pertaining to ancient animal keeping were revealed from the archaeological evidences dating back to Harappa (Montgomeri) and Mohenjo-daro (Larkana) districts, from Punjab and Sindh province, respectively. People from these periods raised and used animals for games and recreation. Numerous livestock products were consumed namely, milk, curd, ghee, etc. The animal skin and hides were also documented for having important uses. Importance of cattle, pig, fish and other animals including tortoise as food is vastly mentioned during Harappan period although fish was the main animal food for people during this period. Excavations of various paintings, seals and stamps and scripts recovered from the Indus valley civilization provided tremendous knowledge about their culture and animal husbandry ethos but many of the scripts on the seals have not been decrypted fully. Bull seal of Harappa Indian Agriculture after Independence 44 2.2. Vedic and post-vedic era In the Vedic period, animals gained more importance. It was during Vedic period in India, cows were cherished as religious entity and were referred as ‘Aghanya’ i.e., not to be killed. “Vedic people regarded cow as the source of their good fortune, happiness, and good health” - Rigveda (6.28.1, 6). We have plentiful information on the status of animal keeping, care and management in the Rigveda. According to it, people used to feed their cows on nearby pastures to their homes. If sufficient pastures were not available, there was a practice to generate pastures for cows by clearing the forest lands. It is written that the cows were milked thrice a day, indicating their utility for milk and availability of quality germplasm, pastures/grazing lands. Cattle were considered as symbol of wealth. Aryans fought wars with local tribes for acquiring their cows, a valuable asset, and named these wars as “Gavishti”. Evidence exists that Aryans also kept dogs for guarding houses and for hunting of boars and preferred cow over buffalo for giving milk. A ‘Nandi’ or the breeding bull was selected based on several characters of body and the mother’s history of milking. Management practices like castration of male animals were also practiced during the Vedic era and oxen were used for farm transport, ploughing and irrigation of agricultural fields. Small ruminants and their importance had been clearly documented during this period, where goat was mostly kept for milk and sheep for wool.