 Need for conservation About six decades back, in place of grafted plants, people planted new orchards by even using seedling plants but it is a rarity in present days. For few large land owners, space for seedlings was not a constraint and trees were allowed to grow, flower and fruit. Majority of the mango varieties came into world because of this process. New varieties developed as nature’s gift and people were interested in selection and maintaining them. These did not have much commercial value rather owning them due to some unique character was considered as matter of pride. Although majority of the varieties have disappeared but even then community efforts can conserve the existing ones. Many of the varieties survived in the orchards because of their value for making pickles but gradually they also vanished as their commercial value was not exploited by the owners. Serious threat to the mango varieties warrants efforts for conservation as these are important sources of genes for future breeding programmes. Rare varieties supporting livelihood In the wholesale market, traditional varieties are not well respected, and farmers are demoralized as a result of receiving too low price. In some big city colonies, however, these rare varieties are sold at very high price. Mango connoisseurs are willing to pay a premium price for these varieties. Farmers are putting forth extra marketing efforts in order to maximize their profits. Seedlings and local varieties are supporting the livelihood in several tribal areas where commercial varieties are not common. The farmers sell fruits on roadside stalls and products made from these rare varieties. The desire to consume varieties other than commercial ones is gradually growing among city dwellers. Farmers may be able to get a better price if rare mangoes are sold in a more organised manner. SCMD farmers displaying the mango diversity Indian Horticulture 10 Community based efforts for conservation Collective and community efforts can support the drive to save mango varieties in a big way. ICAR-CISH, with the help of farmers identified mango varieties in the orchards, and catalogued and popularized them for making them important. Farmers were educated for making less known varieties important and selling even at a better price than Dashehari. Collective marketing of rare varieties by the farmers was demonstrated as a potential tool. Many expert farmers marketed non-commercial mango varieties in posh areas of cities. Their experiences in marketing were demonstrated to other farmers who were normally dumping unique mangoes in wholesale market at very low price. On-farm conservation of Malihabadi mango varieties was initiated by CISH with the development of a community based organization “Aam Vividhta Sanrakhchan Samiti” (Mango Diversity Conservation Society). Community farmers identified 100 varieties which require on-farm conservation on priority.