 Because all non-planting households have an identical production value of zero, this regression recovers the estimated treatment effect inclusive of phone-induced attrition bias under the assumption that phone response rates among non-planting households would have been comparable to response rates among planting households. Regression coefficients are presented in Fig. 4 with 95% confidence intervals subject to a standard error adjustment for sample size. In general, regression standard errors are computed as ğœğ›½= ğœğœ– âˆš ğ‘ (2) a ratio of the residual variance and the sample size, both of which vary by survey mode in our data. In Fig. 4, we isolate the residual variance component of (2) by multiplying ğœğ¼ğ‘›ğ‘ƒğ‘’ğ‘Ÿğ‘ ğ‘œğ‘› ğ›½ by âˆš ğ‘ğ¼ğ‘›ğ‘ƒğ‘’ğ‘Ÿğ‘ ğ‘œğ‘›âˆ•ğ‘ğ‘ƒâ„ğ‘œğ‘›ğ‘’. This correction approximates the regression standard error we would have computed had the in-person survey reached as many respondents as the phone survey while maintaining the same residual variance.7 Estimated treatment effects are nearly identical in magnitude across survey modes for all four main pulse crops, and a standard t-test fails to reject equality for any crop. This fact remains true even after the âˆš ğ‘standard error correction described above, which shrinks the in- person standard errors and thereby raises the probability of rejection. 7 ğ‘ğ‘ƒâ„ğ‘œğ‘›ğ‘’is calculated as the sum of regression weights. Note this is a simplified approximation because the regression standard errors are clustered at the village level, which is the unit of random assignment to treatment. A more comprehensive correction would need to fully specify differences in the number of clusters, observations per cluster, and intra-cluster correlation by survey mode. Journal of Development Economics 166 (2024) 103199 8 E. Anderson et al. Fig. 4. Treatment effect estimates by survey mode. Notes: Coefficient estimates for treatment effect according to (1) by crop and by survey mode. Error bars represent true 95% confidence intervals for estimation using phone survey data. For estimation using in-person survey data, 95% confidence intervals are shrunk by âˆš ğ‘ğ¼ğ‘›ğ‘ƒğ‘’ğ‘Ÿğ‘ ğ‘œğ‘›âˆ•ğ‘ğ‘ƒâ„ğ‘œğ‘›ğ‘’to represent the hypothetical confidence interval had the in-person survey had the same number of respondents as the phone survey. Top production values are Winsorized to the 95th percentile independently by crop and by mode before regression estimation. Exact coefficients and standard errors are reported in Appendix B. Notably, the higher attrition rates among pulse producers in the phone survey do not appear to introduce bias. These results indicate that, in contrast to the findings on population moments in the previous section, treatment effect estimation remains stable across survey modes. That is, any systematic differences between in-person and phone responses appear consistently in both treatment and control.8 While regression coefficients remain stable, Fig. 4 shows that stan- dard errors are consistently smaller in the in-person data.