The key components of NAHEP, viz. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), Institutional Development Plan (IDP), and Innovation Grants have contributed to enhanced entrepreneurship opportunities and other reforms in AUs. Social Science: The impact of different risk management strategies on farm productivity and its resilience to climatic shocks was estimated. Measures were categorized into risk-mitigating, risk-transferring and risk-coping strategies. Productivity and risk effects of crop insurance vis-à-vis irrigation to explain the low uptake of crop insurance. Both crop insurance and irrigation positively impact farm productivity, but their gains differ significantly. The structure of rural employment is undergoing a change. The withdrawal of the agricultural workforce has further accelerated, and an additional 28 million workers left between 2011-12 and 2017-18. In the recent decade, the agricultural sector has experienced all-time high growth of 3.5%, and the growth has been driven by the animal husbandry and fisheries. The feasibility of a uniform water pricing policy and a differentiated water pricing policy was assessed. A notable shift in cropping patterns will take place when a volumetric and differential water pricing policy is adopted. Possibilities of reducing import dependence to meet the edible oil demand by increasing domestic production, adopting yield-enhancing technologies, and raising import tariffs, was investigated. A general method of construction of row-column designs with two rows for orthogonal estimation of main effects and two factor interactions in minimum number of runs was given for orthogonal parameterization. An alternative sampling methodology for estimation of area and production of horticultural crops developed by ICAR was adopted by Department of Horticulture, Government of Haryana. Developed a support vector machine-based prediction model for predicting GIGANTEA proteins in plants. Based on the developed methodology, a prediction server GIpred has also been established which is freely accessible (http://cabgrid.res.in:8080/ gipred/) for proteome-wide recognition of GIGANTEA proteins. Developed machine learning-based models for identification of abiotic stress responsive miRNAs and Pre-miRNAs in plants. Developed a comprehensive machine learning based computational model for discovery of DNA binding proteins in plants (PlDBPred) that play crucial roles in numerous cellular processes. Developed prediction server PlDBPred which is publicly accessible at https://iasri-sg.icar.gov.in/pldbpred/. The miRNA profile prediction system was implemented as a webserver available at https://scbb.ihbt.res.in/ miRbiom-webserver/ and also the standalone version available at Github (https://github.com/SCBB-LAB/ miRbiom).