 Rats make large holes in the field, which cause 20- 30% loss of berseem fodder. To overcome this problem, farmers of Ahmednagar district install waste light bars in the fields. Keywords: waste light bar, berseem, rat Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Use of traps to control rats Farmers of Newasa tehsil of Ahmednagar district use PVC pipe for control of rats. PVC pipe is kept in vertical position and one stick is put parallel to the PVC pipe. Another bamboo is kept at 90 degree angle to the pipe. Rats can come freely to the mouth of PVC pipe, inside which baits/groundnut pods/maize cobs are kept. After eating, the rats cannot climb the pipe because it is very smooth. Next morning the trapped rats are killed. Keywords: rat trap, PVC pipe, bamboo Director of Extension, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2395 Control of sorghum smut disease by treatment of seed with cow urine Farmers of north Solapur region of Solapur district are using cow urine to control smut of sorghum. Before sowing, sorghum seed (10 kg) is treated with cow urine (1 litre), by which the incidence of disease is reduced. Keywords: sorghum smut, cow urine Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2404 Use of cow dung ash for termite control Cow dung ash is effective in controlling termite attack in the fields. Therefore, at the time of field preparation, cow dung ash is broadcast in the field. This traditional practice is widely used in the Kalakot area of Rajouri district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: termite, cow dung ash, broadcast Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E- Kashmir, University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2382 Control of rhinocerous beetle in coconut by castor seed extract Farmers of Puri district of Orissa follow the practice of trapping the rhinocerous beetle by using castor Shri Bhagban Naik Jeypore, Sakhigopal, Puri (Orissa)  seed. Castor seeds are ground and boiled in water for ½ an hour in earthen pot. The pot is cooled and kept in coconut orchards. The beetles are attracted by the odour and trapped in the oily extract. Keywords: rhinocerous beetle, castor seed extract 2405 Use of Eupatorium rugosum as pest repellent in rice field The farmers of Medziphema area use Eupatorium rugorum plant as pest repellent in their paddy fields. Whenever there is an attack of pest in their fields, fresh branches of this plant are erected in the field keeping a distance of about 5-6 feet. The plant has a strong odour. This odour is believed to act as a repellent to the pests.