 Scaling up production area The area under floriculture in the Northeastern states is very small compared to other states in India. According to the data released by the National Horticulture Board (Indian Horticulture Database 2018), the area under flower cultivation in the Northeastern states was 5800 ha, producing 50,900 MT loose flowers and 67,800 MT cut flowers. The production of loose flowers and cut flowers from these states accounted for only 2.59 and 8.24% of the total production in the country. The area under flower crops needs to be expanded. The following measures are proposed to increase the area under cultivation in the Northeastern states of India. Attracting rural educated youth in floriculture The involvement of unemployed, educated youth can be a game changer for the development of the flower industry in the Northeastern states of India. Private investment in floriculture, including orchids, may take time due to social and political upheavals. The youth in these states speak English and Hindi and can interact with people from other states or countries. They need to be mobilised and encouraged to take up floriculture as a business. Encouraging Cluster /Contract /Cooperative farming In floriculture, quality, quantity and continuity in the supply of products are crucial to achieve higher prices in the markets. Contract farming of flower crops could be profitable for small and marginal farmers in Noble Orchid Indian Horticulture 82 the Northeastern states where availability of inputs and marketing of the product is still a problem due to lack of marketing infrastructure for perishables. Formation of clusters of flower growers with backward and forward linkages would be beneficial. Promotion of export-oriented ventures The cultivation of high value cut flowers and potted plants is a suitable agricultural product for export from the Northeastern states of India. The export-oriented enterprises need to be encouraged by the governments. These farms can import new varieties and technologies for growing flower crops from other countries. An export- oriented company, ‘Himalayan Orchids’, has been set up in Sikkim to export cymbidium orchids, but it is not functional at present. Economising production cost Increasing production costs reduce the producer’s profit margin in the consumer rupee. Therefore, the efforts should be made to reduce the cost of production by optimising inputs, reducing energy costs, increasing productivity and improving the quality of the product. The following measures will help reduce production costs. Determining the ideal production areas The climatic conditions in the Northeastern states are favourable for growing flower crops. However, mapping the microclimatic conditions suitable for a particular type of crop would reduce the cost of infrastructure and energy. The flower crops can be grown in these locations under rain shelter rather than in climatically controlled greenhouses.