 Indian Agricultural Research First Prize Institute, New Delhi 2. Central Potato Research Institute, Second Prize Shimla II. Awards to other Institutes/Centres of ‘A’ and ‘B’ Region 1. National Fisheries Genetic First Prize Resources Bureau, Lucknow 2. Directorate of Mushroom Second Prize Research, Solan III. Institutes/Centres of ‘C’ Region 1. Central Fisheries Technology First Prize Institute, Cochin 2. Sugarcane Breeding Institute, Second Prize Coimbatore Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi Hindi Patrika Puruskar Yojana: This scheme is applicable for the Official Language Magazines being published by various Name of selected Name of the Award magazine Institute For A and B region Institutes Maru Baagvani Central Institute for First Arid Horticulture, Bikaner Dugdh Ganda National Diary Second Research Institute, Karnal Prasanskaran Pragati Central Institute of Third Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana Institutes of C Region Neelitima Central Institute of First Freshwater Aquaculture, Bhubaneshwar Dhaan National Rice Research Second Institute, Cuttak Baagvani Indian Institute of Third Horticultural Research, Bengaluru In accordance with the instructions/orders of Official Language Department, Ministry of Home Affairs, a total of 11 Institutes were inspected for assessing the progress of Hindi during the period under report and suggestions were given to rectify the shortcomings observed during the inspection. This also includes inspections of Parliamentary Committee on Official Language. House journal of ICAR Headquarters ‘Rajbhasha Alok’ depicting the Hindi activities of different institutes is being published regularly and the edition of the magazine for the year 2019 was released through video conferencing by Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare on 16 July 2020 on the occasion of the foundation day of the Council. Keeping in view of the guidelines issued by Finance Ministry, decision was taken to release all the publications in audio-form. Various training programmes of public interest and useful for the farmers are being organized in Hindi and regional languages by various ICAR institutes. There has been a significant progress in the use of Hindi and other regional languages in respect of all the agricultural extension activities being undertaken by the KVKs situated in Hindi speaking regions and the Council. Besides, all materials to be presented in the Parliament, works related to annual action report, review of grants- in demand, governing body, Standing finance committee, Parliamentary Committee of Ministers of Agriculture, including annual general body meetings of ICAR Society, all proceedings of these various meetings were prepared bilingually in Hindi and English. The Agriculture Minister and other Senior ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 164 Officers delivered their addresses in Hindi. Their speeches were originally drafted in Hindi in the Council.