 • Training on storage and packaging aspects may be arranged for stakeholders. General issues • India has huge surplus of potatoes, however, meagre quantity (0.7%) is exported. Therefore, ways and means for exporting table potatoes, seed potatoes and processed potato products to the potential importing countries needs to be worked out and a moderate export target (may be 5% of production) may be fixed for next five years. • Regular and a minimum fixed quantum of export of potatoes to established markets needs to be maintained in steady manner to become a credential player in global export market. For that country should start long term potato export contacts and meet export obligations religiously. • The requirements of destination countries should be taken into account for export of table, seed and processed potatoes. It may be listed and made available to exporters and producers. • Varietal catalogue with detailed information on the pattern of foreign countries may be published. • Potato Export group may be created on WhatsApp to create prompt link between the stakeholders. The group should meet regularly, i.e. at least thrice in a year to monitor the progress of activities related to potato export. India has the natural advantage of exporting fresh table potatoes from January to June when supply from European countries dwindles. It can also supply fresh potatoes round the year because India has diverse agro- climates and potato is grown throughout the year in one or the other part of the country. Potato has a good future in India under the changed scenario of global economy. Globalisation has resulted in many developing countries becoming much more integrated into the international potato trade. With the phasing out of quantitative restrictions on agricultural commodities, the import and export of potato would be based on the differences in price and production cost between the importing and exporting countries involved. Due to low production cost in the country as a result of the availability of cheap labour, India will have competitive advantage in the international potato trade. By adopting some of the major recommendations on policy change and Infrastructural development, a boon in potato export might be realised in coming times. For further interaction, please write to: Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti Dr S K Chakrabarti (Director), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171 001, Himachal Pradesh, India. E-mail: director.cpri@icar.gov.in competitive and trade regulations are becoming stringent. Our global competitiveness in terms of quality and cost of produce is still not well calculated and some of the other countries are aggressive in promoting their agricultural exports. Based on the above analysis some relevant issues have been highlighted below which may encourage export of potatoes from the country.