 Guava Install sex pheromone trap for control of fruit fly. Apply tricoderma powder in root zone of guava for control of fusarium wilt. Citrus fruits (Oranges, lime, lemons, Pomaleo) Apply proper nutrition after harvesting and don’t leave the fruits for ripening at trees. Regular application of tricoderma powder for control of wilt and dieback in citrus fruits. Marigold Grow round year marigold varieties like Bidhan Marigold-2 and other African marigold flowers for commercial cultivation. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 233 Zone-vI AssAm Field crops Transplanted early Ahu Rice Field selection: Areas with assured irrigation facilities should be selected. Heavy to medium textured soils are preferred. Nursery management: Seeds are to be put in plain water, stirred well and floated ones are to be discarded. Seeds should be sown in nursery bed during mid-February. Land is to be thoroughly puddled and seed beds of 1.25 m breadth and 10 m length (may be increased or decreased as per the requirement) are prepared with 30 cm gap in between beds. In each seed bed 20-30 kg cow dung or compost, 80 g urea, 80 g SSP and 40 g MOP are to be applied. Well germinated seeds are sown @ 650 to 1000 g per bed. Seed requirement for transplanting one hectare of main field is 40-45 kg. In case of hybrid varieties, seed are to be sown @ 250 -300 g/bed and seed requirement for transplanting 1 ha area is 7.5 kg. Transplanting is to be done by putting 2-3 seedlings per hill at a depth of 4-5 cm in semi dwarf varieties and 1 seedling per hill for hybrid. The spacing is 20 cm x 15 cm. Recommended fertilizer dose is 40 kg N, 20 kg P2O5 and 20 kg K2O per hectare in case of semi dwarf varieties. Only one third of the total urea, full doses of super phosphate and potash are to be applied at the time of final puddling. The 2nd one third and 3rd one third doses of urea are to be applied at tillering and panicle initiation stages respectively. Top dressing of urea should be preceded by weeding. In case of hybrid varieties, recommended fertilizer doses are 100 kg N, 60 kg P2O5 and 60 kg K2O per hectare and urea fertilizer is to be applied in 4 equal splits i.e., at the time of final puddling, at maximum tillering, at panicle initiation and at booting stage. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 234 Wheat Sandy loam to silty loam soils, rich in organic matter are suitable. Clayey soil is not suitable for wheat. Seed priming should be done by soaking the seeds overnight before sowing, for faster emergence and uniform crop establishment. A seed rate of 100-120 kg/ha is adequate. Row to row distance of 20 cm is to be maintained for optimum plant population. Depth of sowing should be 3-5 cm but not deeper than 5 cm. In case of dry topsoil, pre-sowing irrigation is to be applied 3-4 days before sowing for quick and uniform germination of seeds. Two irrigations of 6 cm depth have been recommended for all the agro-climatic zones.