 There was a significant increase in DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 76 LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 77 the mRNA expression of serine proteinase inhibitor and interferon in the testis of boron supplemented group. Boron supplementation also upregulated the immune- regulatory gene interleukin 2 and antioxidant gene catalase in the PBMC. On the contrary, toll-like receptor 2 mRNA expression was significantly downregulated in the boron supplemented group. Camel Functional metagenomics of camel rumen microbiome: The rumen samples from camels of Leh and Nubra valley, and Kharai camels were collected under natural grazing conditions. These samples were processed for proximate analysis and metagenomic study was done. The serum biochemical profiles of camel calves reared under maize, bajra and jowar based complete rations were also estimated. conversion ratio (FCR) of broilers was observed with 255 meq/kg dietary electrolyte balance. In a field study involving rural type chickens, Oxycure supplementation (500 g/t) increased body weight gain. Supplementation of agents like mycotoxin binder, phytase and NSP degrading enzymes could not counter the toxic effects of rice distiller’s dried grains with soluble (DDGS) when included at higher levels (12–15%) in the diet of Vanaraja chicks. On the contrary, inclusion of total sulphur containing amino acids at 10% higher level in diet significantly increased body weight of Srinidhi chicks fed DDGS. Various organic acids and essential oils were screened in vitro at graded doses for their effects on growth of E. coli and Lactobacillus plantarum. A combination of 2 organic acids and 3 essential oils was found optimum. Detailed structural and functional diversity analysis of caecal bacteria in Aseel birds was carried out. Nutritional evaluation of crop and gizzard contents from free-range chickens across 4 different agro-climatic regions of the country indicated wide variation in the nutritional profile of scavenging food base among the regions and seasons. Organic selenium supplementation (0.15 ppm) showed beneficial effects on antioxidant status in broiler chickens. Quality protein maize replacing normal maize (75–100%) with less or no lysine supplementation improved performance of Vanaraja chicks. Supplementation of inorganic or organic Fe (100–300 ppm) significantly increased egg Fe content up to 35.3 and 42.4%, respectively, without affecting feed intake and egg quality traits. Broilers: Dietary level of 0.25 ppm of selenium or 16 mg/kg copper was optimum during summer, and nano selenium or nano copper (NS or NC either commercial or green) proved to be better than inorganic or organic sources for improved performance, immunity, cost of production and welfare of broiler chickens. Dietary supplementation of tamarind seed powder @ 250 mg/kg diet improved immunity, antioxidant properties of meat and guts microbiota, and decreased fat and cholesterol contents in meat of broiler chicken.