 Management of PM in Sub-tropical regions This region covers Delhi, Meerut and Muzaffarnagar districts of Uttar Pradesh; Hisar, Sirsa and Jind districts of Haryana; Bhatinda, Ferozepur, Amritsar, Gurdaspur and Ludhiana districts of Punjab; Kota, Udaipur, Hanumangarh and Bharatpur of Rajasthan; Purulia & Bankura districts in West Bengal; Raipur in Chhattisgarh; Champhai district of Mizoram; Dimapur district of Nagaland; and Imphal district of Manipur. The occurrence IPM strategies for managing powdery mildew disease in vineyards Tropical Regions Before Backward pruning (April): Soil application of Trichoderma @ 2.0 L or kg/acre May: Spray wettable sulfur (2.0 g/L) or potassium bicarbonate (5.0 g/L) June to August: Another spray of wettable sulfur (2.0 g/L) or Dinocap (0.25 ml/L) or potassium bicarbonate (10.0 g/L) September to October: Bioagents sprays of Eco-pesticide, Bio- Pulse and Bio-Care 24 under severe disease conditions After Forward pruning: Spraying of wettable sulphur (2.0 g/L) or Aureofungin-sol™ (0.1 g/L) or potassium sulphate (2-3 g/L) at timely intervals whenever disease symptoms are observed 30 days before harvest: Grape spray oil 5.0 to 7.0 ml/L or Tricure® (5.0 ml/L) or Bacillus subtilis @ 2.5 g/L 10 days before harvest: Spray of Chitosan (2.0 ml/L) in combination with Ampelomyces quisqualis (5.0 g/L) Subtropical Regions Before pruning (December): Soil application of Trichoderma @ 2.0 L or kg/acre After winter pruning (January): Neem oil (10 ml/L) or Bordeaux mixture (1%) foliar spray Cane maturity & FBD (Feb-March): Sprays of Trichoderma & Bacillus amyloliquefaciens (2.0 g/L) April: Copper fungicide or Copper oxychloride or Bavistin or Ridomil Gold @ 2.0 g/L May: Sprays of Bordeaux mixture or CoC is recommended Pre-harvest (last week of May): Spray neem oil (10 ml/L) or potassium bicarbonate (4.0 g/L) Indian Horticulture 42 of pre-monsoon showers provides conducive conditions for the occurrence of powdery mildew, thereby causing large-scale berry cracking, rotting and defacing of berries. An integrated strategy, which farmers can adopt to either escape or efficiently manage the powdery mildew disease. Sub-tropical grape offers advantage over tropical grape cultivation in terms of off-season harvesting (May to June). In this region, pruning is done at the end of December-January when the vines are dormant. The early maturing cultivars like Perlette, Beauty Seedless, Pusa Urvashi, Pusa Navrang, Pusa Aditi, Flame Seedless etc. are cultivated, which escapes the pre-monsoon shower damage. To minimise the effect of powdery mildew and to maintain the quality of the crop, following strategies should be adopted. y Spray of 1.5 a.i. Hydrogen cynamide (Dormax, Dorbreak) immediately after pruning to hasten uniform and early bud break. This treatment leads to about 15-day early maturity of the crop too. Thiourea 2% can also be applied, which gives about a week earliness.