 The suggestions which emerged out of the discussion are: (i) The idea proposed by ASRB is novel and needs to be fine-tuned and implemented at national level, (ii) While selecting the candidates, potential available at every AU should be tapped, (iii) The AUs may send their views, if any, within 15 days to the ASRB towards finalizing the proposal, and (iv) 14 There will a standing agenda item for ASRB presentation in the VC conference henceforth. Action: All VCs/ASRB Agenda 21: General issues Suggestion was made for providing funds for the development of information system generation / data base at SAUs. It was informed that such system was there earlier at IASRI which was initiated through a specific project but with the completion of that project, information could not be updated further. Action: ADG (EQR) It was suggested that possibility of joint accreditation by ICAR and ICFR for Forestry Colleges in AUs needs to be worked out as ICFR also supports accreditation for such colleges. The suggestion was welcomed and further critical examination advocated. Action: ADG (EQR) Presently the performance awards to AUs are based on maximum number of students getting JRF. It was suggested that appropriately it needs to be based on the proportion/percentage of students getting JRF as AUs widely differ in regard to intake capacity of the students and the large AUs benefit more from the present system. The suggestion was welcomed for consideration. Action: ADG (HRD) Concluding the deliberations, DG, ICAR Dr. Mangala Rai appreciated the yeoman service rendered by the personnel and components of the ICAR-AU system. He further stated that the outcome of these endeavours have commenced to be realized and would be more pronounced in the years to come through spread-effect. The House gave standing ovation to the DG, DDG (Education) and ADG (EPD) in recognition of their stupendous contributions and more so in view of their superannuation slated during this year. The Conference ended with a vote of thanks to the chair. 15 List of Participants of the Vice-Chancellors Conference 2009 (February 16-17, 2009) A. Vice Chancellors of SAUs/DUs/CAU/CUs No. Name Designation Address 1 Dr. B. C. Bhowmick Vice-Chancellor Assam Agricultural University, Jorhat-785013 2 Dr. P. Raghava Reddy Vice-Chancellor Acharya NG Ranga Agricultural University, Hyderabad-500030 3 Dr. D.V.G.Krishna Mohan Vice-Chancellor Sri Venkateswara Veterinary University, Tirupati – 517502 4 Dr. S. D. Shikhamany Vice-Chancellor AP Horticulture University, Venkataramanagudem, West Godawari 5 Dr. M. L. Choudhary Vice-Chancellor Rajendra Agricultural University, Pusa-848125 6 Shri Serjius Minj Vice-Chancellor Indira Gandhi Krishi Viswa Vidyalaya, Raipur- 492012 7 Dr. M. C. Varshneya Vice-Chancellor Anand Agricultural University, Anand -388110 8 Dr B. K. Kikani Vice-Chancellor Junagarh Agricultural University, Junagarh-362001 9 Dr R. P. S.