 Digital horticulture refers to the use of digital technologies to improve the efficiency, quality and productivity of horticultural crops. This includes technologies such as remote sensors, drones, precision irrigation systems, and GPS-guided machinery, as well as the use of data analytics, AI and machine learning to make informed decisions about crop management and farm resource allocation. These digital technologies can be used to collect data about soil conditions, crop health, weather patterns, and other factors that impact the plant growth and yield. This can provide various benefits such as increased efficiency, reduced costs, improved crop yields, and reduced environmental impact. It also helps farmers make more informed and appropriate decisions about crop management and resource allocation, thus helping to improve production and sustainability by maximizing the production and minimizing waste. Technologies at hand Digital farming Digital farming is the integration of precision farming and smart farming, and is achieved through the implementation of intelligent software and hardware. Precision farming is popularly defined as a technology- enabled approach to farming management that observes, measures, and analyses the need of individual fields and crops. Smart farming is more focused on the use of data acquired through various sources (historical, geographical and instrumental) in the effective management of the farm activities. IoT (Internet of Things) This technology comprises the use of sensors, drones, robots, and digital cameras. Sensors, cameras, and robots are installed on the farms to record the data. Digital farming can be done through the installation of network-connected ‘smart’ devices as part of IoT (Internet of Things) or they can be software as a service (SaaS) based agtech. When hardware transfers data over a network they become ‘smart devices’ and become part of the IoT. Since IoT utilizes hardware, it requires solid technical knowledge for operating the equipment along with high maintenance and setup cost. The high capital input cost is what keeps IoT out of the reach of most farmers. November–December 2024 5 Digital twins Digital twins can significantly enhance the needed control capabilities by allowing growers to act immediately in case of (expected) deviations and simulating interventions based on real-life data. Moreover, the scale of greenhouse horticulture has increased in recent years. In large-volume production, it is no longer possible to keep track of the cultivation process manually. This is reinforced by the increasing scarcity of green labour, i.e. experienced employees with horticultural knowledge. Digital Twins can be a suitable technology to deal with these challenges because they remove fundamental constraints concerning place, time and human observation.