 • Enabling conversion of R&D outputs into societal and commercial applications by replicating hitherto successful models as well as establishing of new PPP structures. • Seeding S&T-based high-risk innovations through new mechanisms. • Fostering resource-optimized, cost-effective innovations across size and technology domains. • Triggering changes in the mindset and value systems to recognize, respect and reward performances which create wealth from S&T derived knowledge. • Creating a robust national innovation system. o Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 Investment in Research and Development Global investments in science, technology and innovation are estimated at $1.2 trillion as of 2009. India's R&D investment is less than 2.5% of this and is currently under 1% of the GDP. Increasing Gross Expenditure in Research and Development (GERD) to 2% of the GDP has been a national goal for some time. Achieving this in the next five years is realizable if the private sector raises its R&D investment to at least match the public sector R&D investment from the current ratio of around 1:3. This seems attainable as the industrial R&D investment grew by 250% and the sales by 200% between 2005 and 2010. Increased private investment is necessary for translating R&D outputs into commercial outcomes. While maintaining current rates of growth in public R&D investments, a conducive environment will be created for enhancing private sector investment in R&D. The gross budgetary support for the science and technology sector has significantly increased during the last decade. The impact of such increase is becoming evident. India ranks ninth globally in the number of scientific publications and 12th in the number of patents filed. The Composite Annual Growth Rate (CAGR) of Indian publications is around 12±1% and India's global share has increased from 1.8% in 2001 to 3.5% in 2011. But the percentage of Indian publications in the top 1% impact making journals is only 2.5%. By 2020, the global share Science, Technology and Innovation Policy 2013 of publications must double and the number of papers in the top 1% journals must quadruple from the current levels. The citation impact of Indian publications must improve and match at least the world average. Initiatives under the new policy should enable these macro indicators of research to be achieved by 2020. According to the Global Science Report of the UNESCO, India's current global ranking is commensurate with its number of Full-Time Equivalent (FTE) of R&D personnel. It is imperative that the total number of FTE of R&D personnel increases by at least 66% of the present strength within the next five years. Promoting Excellence and Relevance in R&D Nourishing the Roots Ensuring sustainable pipeline of talented youth for science is a challenge. India has mounted some significant initiatives for attracting talent to science and careers with research.