in 55 2002‐2007 • Analysis of nearly 90000 surface soil samples from AEZ 4, 9, 13, 16 mainly for Indo‐Gangetic alluvial plain (IGAP) showed 55, 47 and 36% deficiency of zinc in Trans‐northern, Central and Eastern parts of IGAP respectively. Reverse trend was found for boron deficiency showing 8, 37, 68% deficient soils, respectively. • Most of soils have tested to be adequate in available iron; but its deficiency in all AEZ as well as toxicity in some coastal, submontane and red lateritic soils is quite common. Studies summarize the occurrence of micronutrient deficiencies amongst and within Agro‐ecological zones and magnitude of crop response for formulating suitable micronutrient management strategies for specific AEZ, soil types and cropping systems for maximizing crop production. Deficiency of boron was found in 33% soil samples tested all over the country. • Deficiency of boron is reported in several areas, Its deficiency is found wide spread in acidic soil and highly calcareous soils of Bihar, Saurashtra, parts of central India too. Boron deficiency varied from 2% in AER 2; 24‐48% in highly calcareous soils of AEZ 2, 9 and 14 but most widespread (39‐68%) in red and lateritic soils of AEZ 6, 13, 16, 17, 19. Over all 33% soil samples out of 50,000 soil samples.. • Deficiencies of Cu and Mn are not widespread and response of crops was found sporadic. Iron deficiency accounts 12% soils of the country which needs attention. Deficiency of Mn has been found wide spread in sandy alkaline soils having low organic matter under rice‐ wheat cropping system in Punjab. So wheat crop suffer badly from manganese malnutrition. Micronutrient recommendations under National Food Security Mission : The information on deficiency of micronutrients and sulphur is being disseminated to various states as follows. Table 2.1 Detail of micronutrient and sulphur deficiency status in soils in Madhya Pradesh S.No District Sulphur Zinc iron Manganese Copper 1 Jhabua Deficient Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 2 Ujjain Deficient Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 3 Vidisha Deficient Deficient Adequate Adequate Adequate 4 Balaghat Deficient Deficient Adequate Adequate Adequate 5 Dhar Deficient Deficient Adequate Adequate Adequate 6 Dindori Deficient Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 7 Mandala Deficient Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate www.icar.org.in 56 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management 8 Shahdol Deficient Highly Deficient Adequate Adequate Adequate 9 Betul Marginal Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 10 Bhind Deficient Highly Deficient Adequate Adequate Adequate 11 Chhattarp ur Marginal Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 12 Damoh Marginal Marginal Adequate Adequate Adequate 13.