 Sanjeev Saxena – Assistant Director General (Additional Charge) Dr. D.K. Yadav – Assistant Director General (Additional Charge) Dr. S.K. Chakraborty – Principal Scientist   

 For official use only REPORT OF THE HIGH POWER COMMITTEE ON MANAGEMENT OF KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA (KVK) Agricultural Extension Division Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi-110 012 For suggesting measures to improve relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation All rights reserved © 2013, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Published by Dr.K.D.Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi 110 012. and printed at Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Phase-I, Naraina Industrial Area, New Delhi-110 028 PRINTED: JANUARY 2014 The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has established Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVK) at grass root level for the cause of farming community in the country. Over the years, with the inception of first KVK during IV Five Year Plan in 1974, the KVKs have grown as a large network in the country with a quantum jump in number reaching to 630 KVKs by the end of XI Five Year Plan. The ICAR has been making all efforts to strengthen the KVK system to support technological backstopping to the farming community and other stakeholders. Further, ICAR has also constituted need based committees for strengthening of KVKs in each and every Plan period. I am happy to receive the report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) under the Chairmanship of Dr. R.S.Paroda, Chairman, Haryana Kisan Ayog and former Secretary, DARE & Director General, ICAR for suggesting measures to improve relevance, efficiency and guidelines for implementation. I congratulate the Committee for submitting useful and effective recommendations. I suggest these recommendations may be implemented at the earliest by the ICAR for the efficient management of KVK system in the country. (SHARAD PAWAR) 1 January 2014 New Delhi Message 'kjn iokj SHARAD PAWAR Hkkjr ljdkj Minister of Agriculture & Food Processing Industries Government of India Ñf"k ,oa [kk| izlaLdj.k m|ksx ea=h  Agricultural innovations and diffusion of new technologies are important factors in developing countries’ quests for food and nutritional security. Farming in different resource endowments must be sustainable, economical, and intensive in order to provide dependable, long-term support for rural households. To achieve these capabilities, farmers must have access to sustainable technology in crop, livestock, forestry, and fisheries sectors. In this regard, the ICAR has established a network of 630 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in the country by XI Plan and these KVKs are functioning with an aim to conduct technology assessment, refinement and demonstration through various activities.