 Agriculture continuous to be the key sector of the Indian Economy, and contributes about 14.5 % of the GDP. It is known through surveys that almost two- thirds of the population in India are connected with agriculture for their source of income. Almost 54% of employment is created through agriculture either directly or indirectly. The performance of agricultural sector during the past three decades has been with a growth rate of 2.59 percent per annum. www.theinternationaljournal.org > RJSSM: Volume: 04, Number: 07, November 2014  Agriculture is an important sector of Indian economy as it contributes about 17% to the total GDP and provides employment to over 60% of the population. Indian agriculture has registered impressive growth over last few decades. The food grain production has increased from 51 million tonnes (MT) in 1950-51 to 250 MT during 2011-12 highest ever since independence. Agriculture plays a vital role in the world economy. However, the production of most agricultural products is affected by a lot of factors, such as the weather changes, seeds quality, culture methods, market availability, government policies, technology, coordination and role played among the supply chain members. The situation is made further complicated by the fact that there is a long lead time in the production of agricultural product. It means that it is impossible to adjust the production plan when the environment changes. Amidst all the problem, the rapid growth has helped Indian agriculture mark its presence at global level. India stands among top three in terms of production of various agricultural commodities like paddy, wheat, pulses, groundnut, rapeseeds, fruits, vegetables, sugarcane, tea, jute, cotton, tobacco leaves, etc (GOI, 2008-09)[17]. However, on marketing front, Indian agriculture is still facing the problems such as low degree of market integration and connectivity, accessibility of reliable and timely information required by farmers on various issues in agriculture. Supply Chain Management The real measure of supply chain success is how well activities are coordinated across thesupply chain to create value for consumers, along with increasing the profitability of every link in the supply chain. Supply-chain management (SCM) is ‘the management of the entire set of production, distribution, and marketing processes by which a consumer is supplied with a desired product’[13]. Supply chain management is the integrated process of producing value for the end user or ultimate consumer. SCM is a philosophy for integrating all the activities in the life of a product or a service from the earliest source of raw materials to the ultimate customer, and beyond to disposal[12]. During the 1990’s, the global competitive environment shifted towards a horizontal or virtually integrated industry structure involving close interaction among suppliers, manufacturers, and customers.