 Mustard aphid is a key pest of rapeseed and mustard causing 35-40% reduction in yield and 5-6 % reduction in oil content. Spraying of Dimecron 0.25 ml/lit of water 2-3 times. Early sown crop escapes the aphid incidence. Rapeseed and mustards are sown on residual soil moisture hence no irrigation is required in rapeseed and mustard. Irrigation increases the yield of rapeseed and mustard significantly. Mulching with rice straw @ 4 ton/ha results in increase of mustard seed yield significantly. It should be harvested when the pods turn yellowish. The crop is liable to shattering, hence should be harvested just before the pods open to avoid losses. With the use of improved varieties and other agronomic practices a yield of 10-12 q/ha of rapeseed and 15-20 q/ha of mustard can be obtained easily. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 148 Flaxseed (Alsi) Flaxseed is a cold season crop and is grown in both northern and southern regions of India. It can be grown in loamy deep soil, which is fertile, silty, and well drained. Flaxseed can be sown as per utera system of cropping, i.e., sowing flaxseeds before harvesting of standing paddy crop so that it will utilize moisture efficiently under rainfed agro-ecosystem. It requires relative humidity of 50- 60% with 7-8 inches of rain. Flax roots go deeper into the soil, so prepare land by proper deep ploughing. 2-3 ploughings can be done. Required 30-40 kg seed/ha. Seeds must be placed 4-5 cm below the soil with spacing between each row can be kept as 20-30 cm and between each crop can be kept as 10cm. Improved Verities are K-2, T-397, No.55, NP (RR) 9, LC 185, S-4, B-67, M-10, Jawahar-17, Jawahar-7 (R-7), Mayurbhanj, Hira, Mukta, Neelum, etc. Use FMY (farmyard manure) at the time of land preparation. If the soil does not have sufficient nutrients, then 30kg of N2 and 15 kg of P2O5 per ha can be given at the time of sowing. Termite, cutworm, wireworm, semilooper, leaf minor, bud fly, pasmo, aster yellows, gram pod borer are some of pests and diseases which can harm flax crop. To protect the crop, avoid continuous cultivation of flaxseed in the same field, use light trap and attractant for bud fly, proper solarisation, neem-based formulation, Seed treated to protect seed-borne diseases and application of pre-emergent and post-emergent herbicide for the protection from weeds. Crop maturing by the end of February which is depends on season and time of sowing. When leaves are dry, and balls turned brownish, flax crop is ready to harvest. The average yield of crop varies from 210-450 kg/ha of seed and irrigated crop yield can range from 1,200-1,500 kg/ha. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 149 Rabi Vegetables Potato The crop is raised when maximum day temperature is below 30oC, and night temperature is not above 20oC. The highest tuberization is obtained when day and night temperature is 20oC and 14oC, respectively.