 The observation on the functional operation of the machine showed that the ribboning was trouble-free and the sticks separated in full length were almost without any bark throughout the whole length unlike the extraction by manual ribboners. PC-interfaced Jute Yarn Hairness Meter An instrument has been developed by NIRJAFT, Kolkata to handle the problem of hairness of jute yarns and suggest measures for its control. The instrument counts the number of protruded fibres (hairs) on a pre-determined length at a particular distance from the yarn surface by a silicon photo-transistor and expresses the results digitally. The instrument has been interfaced with a computer to collect, store and analyze data to give various statistical calculations and graphical representations along with print-outs of the results. The software developed renders automation of the instrument to control the driving motor, preset length of the yarn, the test-time and many other attributes. Though the instrument is developed for jute yarn in particular, it can be used for more coarse yarns as well as finer cotton yarns of 60’s count or so. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 146 ● A repeat energy audits of crop production systems in different agro- climatic zones made under the AICRP on ERAS Low-cost Jute Blended Carpet from Non-woven Textiles Low-cost jute and jute-blended carpet from non-woven jute and its blends for floor covering using screen-printing process were developed by NIRJAFT, Kolkata. The top surface of the carpet has been printed with decorative design by application of pigment. The bottom surface of the carpet was finished by spraying some biodegradable adhesive. The application of resin helped prevent the shedding of jute fibre from the surfaces. The design printed in the carpet was similar to those of Persian style. Some of the jute industries have already shown interest to commercialize the product after visiting NIRJAFT. Bio-pulping of Jute Stick Mutation of fungi has been employed in the biopulping process of jute sticks by ultraviolet and X-ray irradiation at NIRJAFT, Kolkata. When UV rays were used as mutagen both P. chrysosporium and BP 8 enhanced the lignolysis, whereas there was a decrease in cellulysis. Paper sheets made in the chemi-microbial process mutated fungi showed satisfactory properties and bleaching of the sheets gave even better results in respect of strength. Improvement in strength may be due to removal of materials not contributing to tensile properties. Bio-bleaching was also made with the crude enzyme preparation of the fungus BP 2. Brightness index improved to a significant extent. The properties of the paper sheets produced through this process compared well with those of hand-made paper available in the market.