 At the time of flowering, shoot-borers are attracted towards patua, and sugarcane crop is saved. In addition, rope is also prepared from fibres of patua plant. Some farmers grow pearlmillet between the rows of patua, because it has poisonous effect during summer and animals do not prefer to graze it. It Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2855 Traping of spotted bollworm and pink bollworm of cotton by ladys' finger 2856 Pest control in cotton 2857 Use of dhatura for controlling pests in cotton is an age-old practice that gives 20- 25% higher productivity. Keywords: shoot-borer, patua, flowering, pearlmillet, poisonous Cotton growers of Rajegaon, Chandangaon and Bisapur villages of Chhindwara district of Madhya Pradesh sow seeds of ladys' finger (Abelmoschus esculentus) in one strip after every 4-5 m distance in cotton fields. Bright colour of flowers of ladys' finger attracts more number of both the bollworms than white colour of cotton flowers. Ultimately there is little incidence (30-40%) of bollworms in cotton, and only 25-30% loss is observed. About 60-70% farmers use this technology, which is in vogue since age-old time. Keywords: cotton, lady's finger, bollworm Many farmers of Shekh Pipariya village of Gujarat are following this practice to control insects and pests in various crops. Mix 200 g each of morthuthu (copper sulphate), 'imbu na ful (citric acid), hirakashi and tobacco (used in hukka) are kept in a big container and are added 5 litres water to it. This mixture is kept undisturbed for 10 days and mixture was stirred well thereafter and filtered through a cotton cloth. Approximately 70-80 ml of the prepared filtrate is added in 10 litres fresh water and sprinkled on the affected crop for checking larval pests. About 70% success is achieved in controlling the larval pests in cotton. Keywords: morthuthu, limbu na ful, hirakashi, tobacco About 300 g leaves and unripe fruits of dhatura are crushed and heated with 1 litre water. The filtrate is used as a stock solution. About 300 ml of the Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Ratilal K. Kachhadiya, village Shekh Pipariya. dist. Amreli (Gujarat) National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Dhirubhai Kacchadiya, village Pipariya, Amreli (Gujarat) Content PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2858 Control of cutworms {Spodoptera litura) in cotton stock solution is mixed in 15 litres water (one pump) and sprinkled over the crop.