 Use of farm implements and machineries should be adopted in such a situation through custom hiring centers. yy Nutritional Garden should be established by farm women to fulfil daily requirement of fruits and vegetables. Also include bio fortified varieties of millets and other crops in it, to fulfil daily nutritional requirement of individual. Summer Operations: yy Ensure proper drying prior to storage of harvested grains, millets, pulses at farm/home and do not use reuse previous seasons gunny bags to prevent pest infestation. Use treated and dried gunnies after soaking in 5% neem solution. Mulching of Wheat straw, sugarcane trash, waste fodder, fallen leaves, etc. should be done for crops as temperatures rise. 157 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Kharif season preparation: yy Farmers should ensure to preserve or procure required quantity of quality seeds for ensuing Kharif season from reliable sources like Agril. Universities or KVKs. The own seed of Soybean should be used for next Kharif season after testing its germination to save money as well as it will help to face the situation of seed shortage in the market. Cotton: yy Cotton should be sown after onset of monsoons or after 7th June only for effective management of pink bollworm. Well decomposed FYM should be applied to cotton @ 10 ton/ha before sowing. Recommended fertilizer dose of 120:60:60 kg NPK/ha should be applied to rainfed cotton out of which 40% N & complete P & K should be applied as a basal dose at the time of sowing. Remaining 30 % N should be after 30 DAS and 30 % after 60 DAS. Earthing up should be done in cotton to during dry spell in Kharif season to reduce evaporation losses of soil moisture. Soybean: yy Soybean seed should be treated with Thirum @ 3 g/kg or Trichoderma @ 4 g/kg of seed and inoculated with Rhizobium and PSB @ 100 ml/10 kg of seed before sowing. Seed germination should be tested before sowing and good quality seed with more than 70 % germination should be used for sowing only. Improved varieties like MAUS-162, MAUS-612, Phule Sangam, PKV Yellow Gold should be used for sowing. Spraying of Azardiractin 1500 ppm @1 lit /ha should be taken up for management of Spodoptera. Pigeon pea: yy Use wilt and sterility mosaic resistant medium to early duration varieties like BDN-711, BDN-716, Godavari, PKV Tara, Phule Rajeswari, etc to ensure higher yield in adverse climatic conditions. Treat the seeds with biofertilizers and apply recommended doses of fertilizers as per recommendations of concerned universities. 158 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Ensure arrangement of one or two protective irrigation wherever possible. yy Summer Groundnut: yy For management of sucking pests in summer groundnut take a spray of 5 % NSKE or Imidacloprid 17.8 % @ 2.5 ml or Thiamethoxam 12.6 % + Lambda – cyhalothrin 9.5 % @ 3 ml per 10 liter of water. For control of leaf eating caterpillar, spray Dimethoate 30 EC 2 ml/ litre water.