 Note that the reported ST values are not normalized – these are raw values computed during variance decomposition. Further, note the sum of the ST values for any given strategy exceeds one. This implies that there are interaction effects present during model execution. For visual analysis, the bars were normalized. Fig. 5 highlights the distributions of outputs (number of adaptation strategies adopted by agents over ten years) of the sensitivity analysis experiment with all four decision rules: utility maximizer, self- satisficer, social-normer, and random choicer. Two general conclusions can be derived from the sensitivity analysis. First, the “four rule, equal probability” setup results in a relatively similar variance decomposition. Simply put, the value of the sensitivity index remains similar across all seven strategies (Fig. 5). Second, adopting any of the strategies is mainly driven by an agent’s choice of the decision rule. 50–60 % of the variance of the number of agents who adopted any given strategy can be attributed to the selected decision rule. The other four inputs play a smaller but relatively equal role in any of the adopted strategies. 4.3. Scenario analysis results Scenario analysis was conducted to explore alternative decision theories, disaggregated based on agent farm size and adaptation strat­ egy. Separate scenario analyses were conducted for decision rules: utility maximizer (Scenario A), self-satisficer (Scenario B), social-normer (Scenario C), and random (Scenario D). Table 5 outlines the aggregate model performance ratios for all scenarios. Scenario A, where all agents are assigned the utility maximizer de­ cision rule, has the highest MPR for the adoption of high-yielding vari­ eties (MPR = 0.59) and increased use of fertilizers (MPR = 0.76) (Table 5). Under Scenario A, the model’s prediction power for both strategies improves with an increase in farm size, from small to large (Table 6A). The model performs poorly for the adoption of climate tolerant varieties (MPR = 0.00), irrigation (MPR = 0.00), improved land preparation (MPR = 0.07), and late planting (MPR = 0.00), with no distinct patterns of model performance based on agents’ farm size (Fig. 6 & Table 6A). Under Scenario B, where all agents are assigned the self-satisficer decision rule, the MPR is strongest for the adoption of climate tolerant varieties and enhanced use of fertilizers (MPR = 0.23 and 0.30 Fig. 4. Distributions of outputs (number of adaptation strategies adopted by agents over ten years) of sensitivity analysis experiment. U. Sanga et al. Journal of Environmental Management 298 (2021) 113353 9 respectively) (Table 5). Under this scenario, the prediction power for the adoption of climate tolerant varieties (MPR = 0.24) and the enhanced use of fertilizers (MPR = 0.36) is highest for marginal farmers, as compared to other, larger, land-sizes (Table 6B).