 Usually in mid-December heavy snowfall is witnessed in the entire Kashmir valley and the snow kept the pace unto late February. Though moderate to heavy rains are usually in the early spring season in Kashmir, but the snowfall witnessed on 6th April 2017 is a rare happening. The last time it snowed in April in Kashmir was on 28th April 1978. Due to low temperature, the pollinating agent like bees remained inactive for a week, as their flight stops below 12°C. The pollen grains were washed away as a result of heavy rain on April 5 and snowfall on April 6. The pollen grains that were transferred prior to the snowfall also did not germinate since pollen grains do not germinate below 5°C, and the stigma became non-receptive as a result of the low temperature. In those flowers that were pollinated before the snowfall, the growth of the pollen tube also slowed down because the temperature was below 10°C. All these factors adversely affected the fruit setting. However almond and apple escaped as most of the almond orchards blooming were over or some late varieties bloom was near to completion, whereas apple orchards were at tight cluster to pink bud stage, the two budding stages before Untimely snowfalls – An emerging concern for temperate fruit growers in Kashmir valley The horticulture sector is perceived as the backbone of the Jammu and Kashmir economy as it significantly contributes to Gross State Domestic Production. Around 7 lakh families, comprising 33 lakh people, are directly or indirectly associated with the horticulture sector. During the last few years, the Kashmir fruit growers have suffered a major setback mostly due to climatic variability in particular to the unseasonal heavy snowfall. Based on the time of occurrence, untimely snowfall affect flower parts, pollination process, fruit set, harvesting of late-season varieties, on-farm activities like sorting, grading, packaging, storage, and marketing of produce. In addition, it results in mechanical damage to trees. Furthermore, it can have a significant effect on return bloom by reducing fruit-producing areas on trees. We have no control over the occurrence of pre-and post-winter snowfall but still with the help of some management practices, we can minimize the losses due to untimely snowfall. Indian Horticulture 22 the apple trees witness full bloom. However, fruit set may have been affected to some extent in apples as cold periods just before flower opening can injure ovule. The cross-pollinating temperate fruit trees like pear and cherry were more severely affected compared to self-pollinating like plum and apricot due to unexpected snowfall and the accompanying chilly conditions. Further, the north Kashmir region was affected more severely as compared to central and south Kashmir as the north Kashmir region witnessed more snow.