com “yim f Mill d | dnkechinrotari Y portance Oo Wiets an mprove ecnno ogies pa ICAR “Importance of Millets and Improved Technologies” This book is an excellent compilation of knowledge of importance of Millets and improved production technologies which is essential to create awareness among the end users for their promotion. Millets are being utilized for various purposes such as food, feed, fodder and more recently, as bio-fuel. For this information, importance of different millet crops in our livelihood and their technological advancement has been compiled in this monogram. This will be of immense value to the researchers, academicians, end-users and policymakers alike to promote millets farming. TECHNICAL ASPECTS Pages: v + 183; Price: ¥ 700.00, US$ 90.00; Postage: ~50 ISBN No.: 978-81-7164-272-4 For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Unit ICAR- Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan - I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Tel: 01 1-25843657; email: bmicar@icar.org.in, businessuniticar@gmail.com website: www.icar.gov.in Indian Farming 09 March 2024 Indian Farming 60 March 2024 Overview of underutilized horticultural crops in North-Eastern region Amrutha T1*, A K Mohanty1, Chikkathimme Gowda H R2, A K Singha1 and R M Bordoloi1 1ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 2ICAR-Research Complex for North Eastern Hill Region, Umiam, Meghalaya 793 103 The study discusses the rich biodiversity and potential of underutilized horticultural crops in the North-eastern region of India. The region, covering only 7.7% of India's total geographic area, is home to more than 50% of the country's biodiversity, with over 60% of the region's crops being underutilized. The study underscores the importance of these underutilized crops in addressing food security, agrobiodiversity conservation, and a more resilient agricultural system. It also highlights the therapeutic diversity of these crops, their potential for value-addition and post- harvest management, and their significance in traditional medicine systems. The significance of these underutilized crops in addressing various health issues and contributing to traditional medicine systems is emphasized, along with their potential for income generation for local farmers and sustainable agricultural practices. Additionally, the study addresses the pivotal role of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) in fostering awareness among farmers regarding the importance and conservation of these crops. Keywords: KVKs, Therapeutic diversity, Underutilized crops, Value-addition T HE Northeastern region of India, consisting of eight states viz. Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura, and Sikkim is located between latitudes 21°51’ and 29°5’ and longitudes 85°5’ and 97°5’ E.