 The plain region of Delhi is characterized by Shisham, Neem, Mulberry, Peepal and Acacia trees. The riverine type of vegetation grows along the plains of Yamuna. Vegetation of Delhi mainly comprise of medium size trees and herbs. However Delhi is known for its varied flowering plants. Weeds and grass grow on the banks of the Yamuna river. Diversified agriculture ensures efficient utilization of natural resources and channelization of by-products of one farming enterprise to the other. The integrated farming systems, protected cultivation of horticultural crops, seed production, vegetable cultivation, improved fruit production techniques, effective utilization of water, integrated pest management, use of bio- fertilizers, use of biogas, post-harvest technique and value addition of agricultural produce, apiculture, commercialized mushroom cultivation, dairy farming, vermi-compost production, watershed management, agroforestry, handicrafts industry by rural youth and women, agro- tourism or Agricultural tourism etc. therefore, assume prime place for sound management of farm resources to enhance the farm productivity, reduce environmental degradation, improve the quality of life of farmers and to maintain the sustainability to meet the challenges of food and financial security. In order to meet the soaring demand for food –especially quality food and to keep the sanctity of farming sector as a lucrative option for income to young generation, and to enhance the income of farmers multi fold, there is a need to go for these potential technological options. These approaches facilitates in strengthening the socio-economic status of Indian farmers besides strengthening ecological balance. Integration of farming enterprises on a single small land holding or under a single ownership of holdings is well known to Indian farmers simply because of the preponderance of small farm systems which form the backbone of traditional agriculture. For small farmers, these systems enable a means of adopting diverse agro enterprises through the use of meager resources in the context of a rational means of reducing risk. Additionally, it also enables increased use efficiency of these scarce resources to ensure livelihood security and stability to farming systems. Wheat has the biggest share among food crops in Delhi. During 2015-16, area and production of wheat were recorded as 19,050 hectare and 83,419 MT, respectively. However, vegetable crops can play immensely important role in income enhancement in the fragmented and receding agricultural landscape of Delhi. Vegetables grown in and around Delhi include cauliflower, cabbage, carrot, spinach, mustard (leaves), okra and tomato. In addition, a range of culinary herbs such as fenugreek and coriander are cultivated. The increase in the share of vegetables is partly extended by proximity to the markets.