 The maximum and minimum temperature and maximum relatively humidity had positive correlations on foot-rot disease development, whereas minimum relative humidity had negative correlation in disease development. Step down analysis revealed that 1°C increase in maximum temperature increased 0.88% disease incidence. Similarly, 1% increase in relative humidity increased 0.32% disease incidence. In Sirmurali Bhabna, variety of betelvine minimum temperature, maximum relative humidity and rainfall had positive significant effect on per cent disease incidence of leaf rot, while maximum temperature showed a negative correlation. In Harshpur Bangla, minimum temperature and maximum relative humidity had positive effect on disease incidence of leaf rot, while maximum temperature and rainfall had negative effect. The important contributing environmental components for leaf-rot disease incidence were maximum relative humidity above 90% and minimum temperature (26-30°C), which seems to have accounted for 22.09 and 11.38% of the total variation in disease incidence, respectively. Temperature, total rainfall and cloudy days had positive effect, whereas bright sunshine had negative correlation on Anthracnose disease incidence. Maximum and minimum temperature, relative humidity, bright sunshine hours and rainfall had positive correlation, whereas number of rainy days and number of cloudy days had negative correlation effect on bacterial leaf spot disease incidence. Integrated disease management with sanitation + one soil drenching of Bordeaux mixture + Trichoderma application (after one month) + one more soil drenching of Bordeaux mixture significantly reduced Phytophthora foot-rot disease incidence and increased leaf yield. Highest cost : benefit ratio was also obtained at AAU (1 : 2.94), JNKVV (1 : 1.40) and MPAU (1 : 3.34). Application of oil cakes + carbofuran + 3 inoculations of P. lilacinus inoculated oil cakes was found to control root-knot nematode and increased leaf yield compared to other treatments. Tobacco caterpillar and white mites were important pests in Andhra Pradesh observed during first fortnight of October and first fortnight of January. Black fly, aphids, red spider mites and betelvine bug were found serious and widely distributed in Maharashtra. Peak appearance of black fly was in November, aphids in December and betelvine bug in October. In Tamil Nadu, scales and spider mites were observed SOLARIZATION A simple disinfection technique to eliminate Ralstonia solanacearum, the causal organism of bacterial wilt, from seed rhizomes of ginger was developed. The method involves solarization of ginger rhizomes for 2-4 hours which raised the rhizome temperature to 55°C during summer just before planting which eliminated the seed-borne pathogens from ginger rhizomes.