 The genetic distance calculated using genome wide SNPs in the Indian yaks revealed that Ladakhi and Sikkimi yak populations are distinct. Poultry Genomic profiles of chicken lines: Expression of stearoyl coenzyme A Desaturase (SCD) and sterol regulatory element binding protein1 (SREBP1) genes were analyzed in broiler, layer and indigenous native chicken lines. Highest expression of SCD gene was observed on day 14 in Ghagus and on day 42 in control layer and control broiler population. Polymorphism at the promoters of SCD and SREBP1 genes were significantly associated with body weight, serum cholesterol and triglycerides in chicken. The shRNA molecules (10) were studied for silencing these genes in which shRNA1 and shRNA3 of SCD, and shRNA1 and shRNA2 of SREBP1 genes had more than 60% knock down efficiency for expression of 2 genes under in vitro system. Further, optimal promoter (1,034 bp) of ovalbumin was identified and its functionality was examined. The construct was efficient for expressing GFP marker gene in magnum primary cell culture. The coding sequence of the ovalbumin gene was characterized, its expression profile explored and polymorphism identified in the 5’-upstream regions of the gene in IWI and IWK lines. In both the lines, an increase in expression of ovalbumin gene was observed after the onset of egg production with peak expression during 40th week of age. The SNPs were identified depicting in the form of three haplotypes namely, H1, H2 and H3; which were associated with egg weight and age at sexual maturity in IWI line. The single-strand conformation polymorphism study revealed that the exons of Tapasin gene were polymorphic with the presence of 8 haplotypes in Ghagus, Dahlem red and Nicobari chicken. Fish First record of aquatic species: During the year, five fish/shrimp species were recorded for the first time from Indian waters; they are: (i) Aenigmachanna mahabali, a new species of troglophilic snakehead from a well in Kerala; (ii) Thor hainanensis, an ornamental shrimp from Agatti Island, Lakshadweep; (iii) Cypselurus opisthopus, rear-fin flying fish from south-eastern Arabian Sea; (iv) Bathymyrus simus, a rare eel from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal; and (v) Leptojulis lambdastigma from Andaman and Nicobar islands. Natural populations of fish species: The natural populations of Chitala chitala, Mugil cephalus, Silonia silondia and Tenualosa ilisha were characterized with mitochondrial markers for population divergence and genetic stock identification. Sub-structuring of populations was observed. In C. chitala, genetic clustering and median joining network demonstrated presence of multiple clades, which corresponded to the 3D structure of ovalbumin protein of IWI and IWK White Leghorn lines Aenigmachanna mahabali Bathymyrus simus Cypselurus opisthopus Leptojulis lambdastigma GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 30 main geographical regions of distribution.