 Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill Shimla(HP) 171 005 3532 Preparation of sweet rice flakes 3533 Moira banana halwa 3534 Preparation of shakarpara 3535 Bebinca, a Goan special sweet Keywords: sweet rice, jaggery, dry- fruits, roasted rice One cup of rice flake, coconut milk, water and jaggery are taken in a vessel and are boiled. After cooking, cardamom powder is added to taste. Sweet rice flakes can serve as dessert during festival time. Keywords: rice flake, cardamom, jaggery, desert Ripe banana is cut into small pieces, sugar and ghee are added to it, and is kept for cooking. Cardamom powder is added to get taste. Banana halwa is ready for serving. Keywords: halwa, sugar, ghee, cardamom This ITK is used throughout district Hamirpur in Himachal Pradesh. Shakarpara is prepared during festive occasions. Wheat flour, sugar, milk and refined oil are mixed and kneaded by mixing dry fruits. By using this, dough roti is prepared and is cut into small square pieces. Keywords: shakarpara, wheat flour, sugar, milk, oil Bebinca is popularly known as the queen of Goan sweets. It has a rich golden colour and enriching flavour. Ms Nayan Talauliker, Taleigao, Panaji Tiswadi. North Goa (Goa) Ms Sunetra M. Talauliker, Training Associate (Home Science), ICAR Research Complex for Goa, Ela-Old-Goa (Goa) 403 402 Facilitator: Dr L.R. Verma MRDA, 4 Summer Hill Shimla(HP) 171 005 Ms Vidhya Kamat, Porvorim, Goa (Goa) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3536 Jackfruit poli 3537 Preparation of manganne 3538 Cake preparation from cucumber 3539 Jackfruit cake preparation 3540 Khubache dangor (black clam cutlet) Maida, sugar, egg, coconut, butter, salt and spices are the ingredients. The market price for one pack is Rs 70 and it is sold at airport counter also. Keywords: bebinca, Goan sweet Jackfruit juice is extracted from fresh and ripe fruit. Required quantity of sugar is added to the juice and small dough is prepared. It is spread nicely on a plastic paper and dried under sunlight. It can be stored and given to children as snack. Keywords: poli, jackfruit, dough, sunlight Chickpea is boiled. Freshly prepared coconut milk, jaggery, cardamom and cashewnut are added to it. This mixture is cooked well and a little sago is added to get taste. Keywords: chickpea, manganne Jaggery, sugar, boiled cucumber, roasted cashewnut powder and cashewnut pieces are mixed properly. One kg of rava (Somalina) is added to the mixture and it is kept in the oven for baking. Cucumber cake is ready for serving after baking. Keywords: cake, cucumber, rava, jaggery Fresh, ripe jackfruit is cut in pieces and juice is extracted from it. Fine-quality fried rawa (Somalina), jackfruit juice, jaggery, raisin and cashewnut are added and baked. Approximate quantity of ingredients is taken as per requirement.