 More than 70 % of the state’s population depends on agriculture and allied sectors for livelihood. Marginal holdings account for about 79 % of total land holdings, followed by 13 % for small holdings, 6 % for semi- medium holdings, 2 % for medium holdings, and 0.1 % for large holdings. Uttar Pradesh’s climate is humid, with temperatures varying from 0 to 50 degrees Celsius. 1 Wheat is cultivated in the rabi season (November to April). 2 Exceptions include a study by Kumar, Singh, Saroj, Madhavan, and Joshi (2019) that conducts a macro analysis of KVKs, but they do not study the adoption of new technologies as a consequence of KVKs. 3 Literature on social networks (Munshi, 2004; Bandiera & Rasul, 2006; Conley & Udry, 2010; Maertens & Barrett, 2013; Beamen et al. 2021) has focused largely on the impact of information diffusion through social networks, but does not study the extent to which social network can generate information spillovers of public-sector agricultural advisory services. 4 Bigger districts have multiple KVKs. For example, Uttar Pradesh’s Gorakhpur district has two KVKs. 5 In India, the average revenue farmers earn from cereal cultivation on one hectare of land is INR 50,000–60,000. D. Varshney, P.K. Joshi, A. Kumar et al. World Development 160 (2022) 106067 2 Average rainfall varies from 650 mm (mm) in the southwest corner to 1,000 mm in the eastern and southeastern parts of the state. The primary sources of irrigation are tubewells (71 %) and canals (18 %). In Uttar Pradesh, soil textures vary widely, from loam soil, sandy loam, and sand soil to alluvial soil, rocky soil, and clay loam. Uttar Pradesh is divided into nine agro-ecological zones (AEZs). These include the Bhabhar and Tarai regions, western plains, midwestern plains, southwestern semi-arid, central plains, Bundelkhand, northeastern plains, eastern plains, and Vindhyan. Appendix Table A1 presents the major crops grown in Uttar Pra- desh’s various agro-ecological zones and in all zones: wheat (41 %), paddy (24 %), sugarcane (9 %), pearl millet (4 %), and maize (3 %). This study focuses on wheat. The primary survey was collected from farmers in three agro- ecological zones of Uttar Pradesh: the southwestern semi-arid, central plains, and eastern plains. The survey was conducted in 12 districts of Uttar Pradesh.6 Four districts were selected from each agro-ecological zone. To select villages, we classiﬁed them into KVK and non-KVK villages. We deﬁne KVK villages as those in which KVK staff has conducted any type of intervention, such as frontline demonstrations or capacity-building programs. Non-KVK villages are those in which staff has not conducted any type of intervention. We prepare the list of KVK villages by the intersection of KVK activ- ity types, such as frontline demonstrations or capacity-building pro- grams, and the region’s key crop (wheat).