 Germplasm field days were organized for wheat and barley, lentil and linseed at New Delhi, rice in NRRI, Cuttack, and mothbean, mungbean, cowpea and cluster bean at Jodhpur. Plant quarantine: A total of 41,160 imported samples including transgenic and trial materials were processed for quarantine clearance. Of these, 1,186 samples were infested/ infected with different pests, 1,039 samples were salvaged through physio-chemical methods and 147 samples were rejected due to fungal and viral pathogens of quarantine importance. Important fungal interceptions included Fusarium solani in soybean from USA, Puccinia helianthi in sunflower from Australia, Bipolaris maydis in maize from Mexico, Phoma hebrarum in bittergourd from Thailand; important insects intercepted include Sitotroga cerealella in Zea mays from Thailand and Oryza sativa from Philippines; important nematodes include Aphelenchoides besseyi on O. sativa from Brazil, Philippines and USA, Meloidogyne incognita and Aphelenchus avenae on Malus domestica rooted plants from USA; and weeds intercepted include Bromus secalinus, Echinochloa crus-pavonis and Lolium rigidum. Besides a total of 1,513 samples of exotic germplasm of various legume crops were indexed for viruses after growing in PEQ greenhouses and detected 17 viruses, viz. ArMV, BCMV, BBSV, BBWV, BPMV, CLRV, CMV, CPSMV, GFLV, PSbMV, RCVMV, RpRSV, SMV, SBMV, TBRV, ToRSV and TSV. Of these, six viruses, viz. BBSV, BPMV, CLRV, CPSMV, RpRSV and ToRSV were quarantine viruses for India which resulted in rejection of 59 accessions of soybean. A total of 25 post-entry quarantine inspections were carried out by plant quarantine scientists for imported consignments at indentors’ site. A total of 2,550 samples were processed for export after issue of 15 phytosanitary certificates. Out of these 1,715 samples were subjected to X-ray Variability for pod length, pod shape, seed shape and seed colour in Drum stick germplasm from Maharashtra and Karnataka GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 20 radiography and 2,595 were released after prophylactic fumigation. Seed health testing for pest-free conservation: A total of 15,334 indigenous samples were processed for pest-free conservation of which 2,906 samples were subjected to X-ray radiography. A total of 1,074 samples were infested with insect-pests and of the total infested/ infected, 190 samples were rejected due to heavy insect infestation/fungal infection and rest were released for pest free conservation. A total of 82 in vitro accessions comprising Dioscorea (54) and Rubus (28) were virus- indexed for associated viruses. Plant germplasm registration: During the period under report, total of 105 genetic stocks belonging to 33 species were registered. Some notable registered germplasms were Herbicide tolerant rice mutant; Rice resistant to Brown plant hopper; Soft grained wheat suitable for biscuit making; Barley with high grain zinc content; Black Pepper with very long spike (29.