 While farmers in Haryana, Punjab and West Bengal practice commercial farming techniques, farmers of Orissa continue to prefer subsistence farming for large productions.  PLANTATION FARMING It is another subset of commercial farming. It makes use of both labour and technology to ensure the process is sustainable as plantations are spread across huge patches of land. It includes both agriculture and industry because of the nature of the crops grown. MODERN FARMING Modern farming methods refer to a type of agricultural production that involves a lot of money, manpower, and a lot of farm equipment like threshers, winnowing machines, and harvesters, as well as a lot of technology like selective breeding, insecticides, chemical fertilizers, and pesticides. Besides the above- mentioned farming techniques in India, there are other methods followed in different regions of the country. Much of these don’t fall under traditional farming methods in India.  AEROPONICS SYSTEM Aeroponics is a method of growing plants without the use of soil in an air or mist environment. It is a subtype of hydroponics that works by suspending the plant root in the air. Farmers will have more control over the amount of water they consume if they utilize this strategy. Aeroponics is the process where plants are grown in the air or mist environment without the use of soil. It is the subset of hydroponics, and suspends the plant root in the air to work. Farmers, by using this method will have better control over the amount of water to use.  AQUAPONICS Aquaponics is a closed-loop system that relies majorly on the symbiotic relationship between aquaculture and agriculture for fertilization. This farming method combines conventional aquaculture with hydroponics.  HYDROPONICS The hydroponics method of farming uses less soil and does not require any form of soil. The process requires growing healthy plants without the use of solid media, employing nutrients such as a mineral-rich water solution. Hydroponic farming is a subset of hydroculture, and the nutrients employed in these systems come from a variety of places. Growing healthy plants without the inclusion of solid medium using nutrients including water solution which is mineral-rich. Hydroponic farming is the subset of hydroculture, and the nutrients used in hydroponic farming systems have different sources.  MONOCULTURE This approach requires the cultivation of a single crop in a specified farming region. In a country like India, however, the Monoculture farming approach isn't extensively used. Monoculture refers to indoor farming, such as the cultivation of therapeutic plants. Monoculture is a modern agricultural approach in which only one crop or plant is produced. In plain words, monoculture is a modern agriculture practice where a single crop or plant is grown.  MODERN FARMING LEADS TO SOIL EROSION Soil erosion is the removal of the top fertile layer of the soil.