 Similarly, a blocking ELISA kit ‘Covid-19 Blocking ELISA’ was developed to detect SARS-CoV-2 antibodies in multi-species (dog, cat, lion or tiger). Using this kit, number of serum samples collected from Covid-19 affected (RT-PCR positive) lions and tigers from Arignar Anna zoological park, Chennai during 2021 were found positive. The kit is being validated using serum samples collected from different species. BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH Omicron and Delta Strains was carried out by isolation and genetic characterisation of the Omicron and Delta variants of SARS-CoV-2, revealing their classification as Delta (B.1.617.2) and Omicron (BA.2.10) variants. Three vaccine candidates, including inactivated Delta and Omicron vaccines, as well as a combination with Covid-19 blocking ELISA kit SARS-CoV-2 antibody detection ELISA Kit SARS-CoV-2 nucleic acid detection LFA kit an aluminium hydroxide adjuvant, were prepared. Preliminary evaluation in guinea pigs demonstrated promising immune responses. The challenge trials of the three inactivated vaccines have been completed in golden Syrian hamsters. Transcriptome analysis was done to assess disease progression and molecular factors related to susceptibility and resistance across species and time points. Host response and susceptibility to SARS- CoV-2 infection, lung explant cultures were established using lung tissues from cats and dogs (susceptible species). For the development of viral vectored vaccine, the SARS-CoV2 S1 gene was inserted into a recombinant NDV and a western blot revealed a 78 kDa band, confirming the presence of the immunogenic gene within the NDV framework. For evaluating the immune responses of NDV carrying the spike S1 gene, a specific immunisation protocol was implemented. The mice were subjected to different virus doses and administration routes. For the development of viral vectored and mRNA-based vaccines the codon-optimised spike and nucleocapsid genes were designed for mRNA vaccines. Self-replicating mRNA constructs (sr-mRNA-S and sr- mRNA-N) were generated, verified, and transcribed in vitro. The expression of SARS-CoV-2 proteins was confirmed through western blotting. Additionally, liposome encapsulation of these constructs showed promising results in terms of size and encapsulation ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 158 efficiency, which are crucial for vaccine delivery. The immunogenicity study of developed mRNA vaccine candidates has been initiated in Balb/c mice. Exploiting encapsulated Nanoparticle conjugated phytochemicals to combat antimicrobial resistance in poultry: The chitosan/alginate encapsulated nano silver entrapped with cinnamaldehyde (EAgC) and thymol (EAgT) were found to be effective both by in vitro and in vivo (Galleria mellonella larvae, Swiss Albino mice and broiler poultry) trials.