 For the online delivery of the e-courses, the open-source CMS MOODLE (Modular Object-Oriented Dynamic Learning Environment) and for the offline delivery of the e-Courses, POODLE (Offline version of MOODLE) is being used and courses integrated with POODLE are loaded into the CD’s/ DVD’s and made available offline. This portal provides 24/7 free services for online access to all the teachers and students in the field of agricultural education even in remote area. Till date, more than 60 lakh downloads have been made by students and other stakeholders of various AUs. 7.2. Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) (http://jgateplus.com) The Consortium for e-Resources in Agriculture (CeRA) is the first of its kind for facilitating 24x7 online accesses of all major journals in agricultural and allied sciences to all researchers, teachers and students, policy planners, administrators and extension specialists in NARS through IP authentication. Regional stations and KVKs are also members apart from SAUs. CeRA has had a profound impact on the growth of scholarly publications in the fields of Agriculture and Allied Sciences. Online availability and e-publishing system for the ICAR research journals has increased their readership by 4-5 folds, and reduced article processing time substantially. Support for access to e-Resources in Agriculture has provided an online access of around 3,000 journals to 142 CeRA member-NARS institutions throughout India. CeRA helped India improve its research contribution in the field of agriculture. Number of publications in agriculture and biological sciences showed linear growth except in 2013. As per Scimago the number of publications increased from 2,845 in 1997 to 14,072 in 2020. Similar trend has been shown in data extracted from Web of Sciences (WoS). According to data extracted from Scopus the number of publications ha increased from 2,830 in 1997 to 15,506 in 2020 (Fig. 4). Indian Agriculture after Independence 326 Fig. 4. Growth of publications (as per Scimago) 7.3. KrishiKosh (http://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) KrishiKosh is a digital repository which captures, preserves, archives and provides policy- based access to the intellectual output of NARS. It is a unique repository of knowledge in agriculture and allied sciences, having collection of old and valuable books, institutional publications, technical bulletins, project reports, lectures, preprints, reprints, records and various documents spread all over the country in different libraries of SAUs and ICAR Institutions. The KrishiKosh acts as digital platform to preserve institution’s intellectual assets and help in providing and managing open access to this literature. Currently, more than 2,70,000 items with 50 million pages have been digitized and stored. Currently, it has 96 member institutions. 1,75,000 theses from various SAUs have been uploaded and since April, 2017 the site has 23 million visits of researchers from 175 countries. 7.4.