 Analysis of physiological basis of drought tolerance conferred by ABAR6 revealed that the transgenic plants have enhanced root growth and Transgenic rice lines expressing double amino acid (T173I, P177S) substituted mutant EPSP synthase Development of transgenic pigeonpea and chickpea: At IIPR, Kanpur, a total of 100 putative chickpea transformants and 51 putative pigeonpea transformants were generated using Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated genetic transformation. Genetic fidelity of the transgenic chickpea lines derived from DCP92-3 was assessed using SSR markers having genome wide coverage. Detached leaf bioassay was conducted in T1 lines derived from two chickpea events using third instar larvae. Based on molecular analyses and insect bioassay data, three promising events each in chickpea and pigeonpea were identified for Event Selection Trial and application submitted to RCGM, Department of Biotechnology, New Delhi. At AAU, Jorhat, more than 200 transgenic lines have been no glyphosate 300 μm glyphosate SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 155 generated in chickpea using different Bt-Cry gene constructs harbouring either a Cry1Ac or a Cry2Aa gene. Of these, 12 lines had high level of Bt toxin (>30 ng/mg FW) and in 9 of these 12 lines, transgene segregated at a ratio of 3:1. Lines with complete protection against Helicoverpa were obtained. At UAS, Dharwad, 202 primary transformants for cry1Ac and 216 primary transformants for cry2Aa in pigeon-pea were generated. 53 cryAc positive and 20 cry2Aa positive plants were selected and the bioassay of all 53 transformants showed a maximum mortality of about 90.0%. In two events the progenies showed 15:1 segregation. In the progenies maximum larval mortality observed was about 84.0%. Molecular and genetic analyses of guggul for adventive embryony: The genome of guggul was sequenced, assembled and the transcriptome from different tissues both sexual and apomictic guggul (Commiphora wightii) plants which includes ovules, leaf and fruit wall tissue were annotated. Analysis of the assembled contigs reveals that most of the transcripts show very high similarity to apomictic genes from other species. Differentially expressed genes were identified with RSEM, abundance estimation and EDGE-R analysis. Only 265 transcripts showed expression restricted to the apomictic plants. Therefore these genes are being analyzed further to narrow down the search for the candidate gene. Understanding the mechanisms of non-host resistance against rust and blast in rice and wheat: A total of 57 rice accessions including seven cold tolerant varities were screened against non-host pathogen, Puccinia graminis tritici 40A. It was observed that Puccinia graminis tritici 40A interacts with rice genotypes albeit without any pustule formation.