 Seedlings were raised in the nursery with all the recommended agronomic practices to obtain healthy seedlings. Seedlings at 30 days were transplanted on 5 August in randomized block design (RBD), each treatment in 4 replications with 40 m 2 area for each microplot (replication). Fertilizer application was made @ 60 N: 30 P:30 K kg/ha. Half the dose was applied basal whereas the rest was applied in two split doses, one at the tillering and the other at panicle- initiation stages. First and second treatments of wild sugarcane were made at the scheduled period. Source of availability of wild sugarcane was found within 60 km of CRRI. Observations on percentage hill infestation and yield of rice were taken. In farmers’ fields three treatments were used: (i) planting S. spontaneum at insect infestation, (ii) insecticide treatment, and (iii) untreated control. Each farmer represented one replication with three plots as three treatments. Each plot size is within the range of 600–800 m 2The same experiment was conducted at Benakunda village of Bhanjanagar, Ganjam with 8 replications as well as at Vogra village of Athagarh block, Cuttack with 6 replications. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field survey Matrix analysis pertaining to the use of wild Saccharum spontaneum was done at village Benakunda of Ganjam district by covering 10 farmers. Saccharum spontaneum is planted after 7 days of transplanting by 40% of the farmers, and after 15 days or more by 60% farmers or sometimes after observing the insect incidence also. The farmers’ informed that where wild sugarcane is planted, the field remains almost free from caseworm. Under severe infestation, the population gradually comes down and infested rice plants recover from the damage. The practice Table 1. Matrix ranking for assessing the performance of wild Saccharum spontaneum for controlling caseworm/leaf roller in rice vis-à-vis other methods Parameter/character Method and score Saccharum spontaneum Insecticide Untreated At 7 DAT At 14 DAT At heavy infestation Reduction (%) of caseworm/leaf-roller 85 75 55 70 0 Plant healthy (%) after 1 month of application90 90 60 85 20 DAT, Days after transplanting.  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT gives better yield than the field where it is not used (untreated). About 20% farmers feel that without this practice the yield loss of grain may be up to 80%. Data of matrix ranking indicate that planting of wild sugarcane after 7 days of transplanting helps the most to reduce incidence of caseworm (Table 1) than delayed planting of Saccharum spontaneum. It was more efficacious than use of insecticide for reducing the insect incidence and to obtain healthy plants. Experiment Results of the experiment conducted at CRRI research station showed that planting of wild sugarcane at 5 DAT is more effective than the other treatments tried (Table 2). Incidence of caseworm was not observed on 20 DAT due to planting of wild sugarcane at 7 DAT and 14 DAT, Table 2.