4% of the total area under floriculture in India. The average monthly income per agricultural household in Himachal Pradesh during 2012-13 was higher (Rs 8,777) than the national average (Rs 6,426). The per capita income of people in Himachal Pradesh has increased from Rs 651 in 1970/71 to Rs 1,30,067 in 2016/17 as compared to the all India average of Rs 823 and 93,231 respectively. Several abiotic (drought, frost, hailstorms, floods, and insufficient chilling) and biotic (insect pests, diseases, nematodes, monkeys, stray/wild animals, and birds) are the major constraints to increase farm productivity. Because of the monkey menace and crop damage by the wild/ stray animals, many farmers have given up crop cultivation in many parts of Himachal Pradesh. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 194 Himanchal Pradesh is divided into four Agroclimatic zones: Shivalik Hill Zone (350-650 m amsl). Sub Tropical area including Una, Hamirpur, parts of Kangra, Sirmaur, Solan, Mandi and Bilaspur Mid Hill Zone (651-1,800 m amsl). Temperate area including Solan, Sirmaur, Bilaspur, parts of Kangra, Mandi, Shimla, Kullu and Chamba High Hill Zone (1,801-2,500 m amsl). Humid Temperate area including Shimla, Kinnaur, Chamba, parts of Mandi and Kangra Cold Dry Zone (Above 2,500 m amsl). Dry Temperate are including Lahaul & Spiti, parts of Chamba and Kinnaur Major Crops grown in the different agro-climatic zones Zones Crops Field crops Fruits MAP Flowers Spices Shivalik Hill Zone Wheat, Maize, Paddy, Gram, S u g a r c a n e , Mustard, Potato, Vegetable etc. Mango, Litchi, Citrus, Aonla, Pomegranate, Low chilling varieties of Peach, Plum, Pear, Strawberry Safed Musli, Aloe, Rose Gladiolus, Lillium, Marigold, Chrysanthemum, Rose Ginger, Turmeric Mid Hill Zone Wheat, Maize, Barley, Black Gram, Beans, paddy etc. Stone fruit (Peach, Plum, Apricot, Almond), Pear, Pomegranate, Pecan nut, Walnut, Kiwi Fruit, Strawberry Dil, Thyme, Tulsi, Aloe, Rose, Stevia Carnation, Gladiolus, Lillium, Marigold, Chrysanthemum, Alstroemeria Ginger, Garlic, Turmeric High Hill Zone Wheat, Barley, Lesser millets, Psedo cereals (Buck wheat & Amaranthus), Maize and Potato. Apple, Pear (soft), Cherry, Almond, Walnut, Chestnut, Hazel-nut, Strawberry Lavender, Rose, Taxus, baccata, Kuth Gladiolus, Lillium, Marigold, Chrysanthemum Ginger, Garlic, Cold Dry Zone Wheat, Barley, Psedo cereals (Buck wheat & Amaranthus), Peas and Potato etc. Apple and Hops, Grapes, prunes, Drying type of Apricot, Almond, Chilgoza, Pistachio nut, Walnut, Hazel-nut Hops, Seabuck- thorn, Kuth, Kala Jeera - - 10.1 Productivity Gaps and Major Constraints: The major limitations to increase crop productivity, profitability and diversification are: State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 195 Š Š Less than 20% of the total cultivable area is irrigated, while the rest of the area is rainfed along the steep slopes of the mountains.