 Keywords: awalia, akadia, bandage Shri Antaryami Pradhan, village Tansi, dist. Angul (Orissa) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bhayajibhai Amrabhai Pagi, Hathivan Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Calotropis gigantea 3173 Remedy to cure arthritis by using khipdo About 500 g branches of khipdo (Leptadenia reticulata) is used to cure arthritis in animals. Khipdo has small and round white flowers. It has straight branches with thin and long leaves (5 cm). Thick sticky fluid comes out of the branches when they break. A bunch of thin branches of khipdo are kept inside a mud pot, Shri Karsanbhai Vania, Lakadia, village Bhacchau, dist. Kutch (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3174 Cure of arthritis in cattle 3175 Use of nochi (Vitex negundo), kattukottai (Jatropa gossiphylla) and neern (Azadirachta indica) leaves for treatment of cattle wound 3176 Use of banana-leaf ash to control wound in cattle which is covered with dung. The pot is kept in a pit in the dung-hill for at least 7 days. Bunch of the plant is taken out and the water is filtered in another vessel. Precaution is taken while opening the mouth of the mud pot, as the warm vapours coming out of the pot may burn the face. About 250 ml of the filtered liquid is given to the cattle along with the fodder twice a day for 3 days. Within 3 - 4 days, arthritis in animals can be cured effectively. Keywords: khipdo, arthritis, mud pot, warm vapours The ingredients are: 1 small bulb of Allium vineale (bon nohoru), 3 leaves of Piper betel (pan leaves) and 4 pieces of ginger (Zingiber officinalis). These ingredients are mixed and then ground to make a paste. This is given orally (three doses) at every 3 hr interval daily to the affected animal. Keywords: bon nohoru, ginger, pan leaves Leaves of nochi (Vitex negundo), kattukottai (Jatropa gossiphylla), and neem (Azadirachta indica) are cut into small pieces and a little water is added to it. Then it is boiled properly. The mixture is applied on the wound. It gives immediate cure. Keywords: cattle wound, nochi, kattukottai, neem To control wound in cattle, 50 g banana-leaf ash (made out of a separate banana plant, called puthu vazhai) is mixed with 20 ml butter. This paste is applied twice daily. This mixture helps to heal the wound in cattle. Keywords: cattle wound, banana leaf ash, butter Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, Guwahati, dist. Kamrup (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation. Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri G. Palanichamy. S/o Shri Gopal Naidu, Navapatty, Kannivadi, dist. Dindugul (Tamil Nadu) 624 705 Shri A.E. Ramadoss, Adhanappattu. Thensiruvallur. Vanur.