 • The Council does not assume any responsibility for opinions offered by the authors in the articles and no material in any form can be reproduced without permission of the Council. • The Council is not responsible for any delay, whatsoever, in publication/delivery of the periodicals to the subscribers due to unforeseen circumstances or postal delay. • Readers are recommended to make appropriate enquiries before sending money, incurring expenses or entering into commitments in relation to any advertisement appearing in this publication. • The Council does not vouch for any claims made by the authors, advertisers of products and service. • The publisher and the editor of the publication shall not be held liable for any consequences in the event of such claims not being honoured by the advertisers. I N the pursuit of sustainable livelihood security for India’s farming community, the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) emerges as a pivotal initiative. Launched with a farmer- centric approach, FFP prioritizes Farmers, Innovations, Resources, Science, and Technology, addressing the complex and risk-prone realities of smallholder agriculture. The programme is not just focused on enhancing production but on broadening the scope of agricultural research to holistically address the challenges farmers face today. FFP stands out by fostering an enhanced interface between farmers and scientists. It ensures that the research conducted is directly responsive to the needs of farmers, based on the resources available at their disposal. This collaborative effort not only identifies and prioritizes farmers’ problems but also drives the formulation of research projects designed to solve these problems. The result is a demand-driven, need-based approach that is scientifically sound and strategically managed. FFP started in 2016-17 was envisioned as a tool to help realize double farmers' income by 2022, a vision set forth by India's Prime Minister and the Programme has been going on due to the positive impact on the farmers. With the involvement of 55 FFP institutes, including ICAR institutes, Directorates, and State Agricultural Universities, the programme directly engages thousands of farm families across nationwide. By facilitating training, workshops, fairs, and capacity-building initiatives, FFP provides essential support in various areas such as crop management, horticulture, livestock, natural resource management, and integrated farming systems. A key strength of FFP lies in its adaptability and problem-solving framework. The ongoing research and development efforts are presented in present as well as the next issue of the Indian Farming, which systematically outlines the achievements of the 55 participating institutes. This resource not only provides a graphical and tabular presentation of their work but also serves as a guide for future rural development projects and area-specific technological interventions.