 E DITORIAL MAHARISHI is back to revive Millets (S K Malhotra) Indian Farming 3 August 2023 Diseases panorama in major cool season pulse crops and their bio-intensive management strategies R K Mishra, A K Parihar* and G P Dixit ICAR-Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 024 Chickpea, lentil and field pea are the most important cool-season crops grown worldwide for their higher productivity and nutritional value. These crops are well known for their high protein, mineral and antioxidant properties. Cool season pulse crops are severely affected by several biotic and abiotic stresses at various growth stages, which hamper their production and productivity drastically. Among the biotic stresses, diseases like wilt, root rot, powdery mildew and rust are the most devastating yield-limiting factors, causing huge losses every year if the environmental conditions are favourable. Most of the cool season pulse crops are consumed directly as green vegetables and salads, so the chemical pesticides and fertilizers cause several detrimental effects and residue problems in humans, animals and wild life, and also directly pollute the environment. Hence, bio-intensive-based interventions are more appropriate, cost-effective and environment friendly approach to manage these major diseases of cool season pulse crops for higher productivity and nutritional security for a large population. Keywords: Cool-season crops, Disease, Management strategies, Pulses Indian Farming 73 (08): 03-06; August 2023 P ulses are most important food commodity that plays very important role in nutritional security of vegetarian and resource for poor population of developing countries and in soil health maintenance, and improvement as well. In India, pulse crops are being cultivated in rabi and kharif season, however, spring and summer season also has substantial area under cultivation of mungbean and urdbean. In cool season, 5 pulse crops viz. chickpea, lentil, field pea, lathyrus and rajmash are being cultivated in different parts of the country. Among these, chickpea, lentil and field pea are the major cool season pulse crops. Among these field pea has highest productivity (1441 kg/ha) followed by chickpea (1217 kg/ha) and lentil (904 kg/ha). However, the productivity of these crops is quite low as compare to other countries. One cause for this low productivity is the predominance of biotic and a biotic stresses. Among the biotic stresses, different phyto- pathogens such as fungi, bacteria, phytoplasmas and virus causes several diseases, which severely affect the crops performance under congenial circumstances and cause significant damage in term of quantity and quality of produce. Chickpea is mainly affected by Fusarium wilt, Ascochyta blight, dry root rot, Botrytis grey mould and collar rot. While in case of fieldpea, powdery mildew and rust are the major threat to cultivation.