, 2016; Kirschke et al., 2019; Schaub, 2021), and cleaner and more continuous river ﬂow in the Ganges river and Hindon sub-basin in India (INTACH, 2017; Chaudhary and Walker, 2019; Dutta et al., 2020; Sen, 2020). In Tanzania, societal priorities shifted from small-scale agriculture to agricultural intensiﬁcation (A). The status quo for agricultural water man- agement was smallholder farming under fairly water-abundant conditions (B). Efforts to adjust emerged with the Kilimo Kwanza plan (in English, “Ag- riculture First”) and policy instruments to promote the use of agrochemi- cals, machinery and improved seeds (C). This led to a change in farm composition, speciﬁcally, a 10 % drop in the share of smallholder subsis- tence farms and an increase in small and medium-sized commercial farms (E). Arable lands expanded by 38 %, but production increased much less (8 %). Water scarcity rose due to the strong increase in land expansion, and, inequalities among farmers deepened due to increased land and water grabbing (D). Overall, the compass analysis reveals that agricultural water management was modernized to accommodate the strategy of agricultural expansion and intensiﬁcation (F). However, that strategy ultimately led to increased water scarcity and inequity. The degree to which the reorientation unfolded is nonetheless signiﬁcant, as major changes were observed in plans, policies, farming practices, land and water resources, to accommodate the shift in priority from small-scale agri- culture to agricultural intensiﬁcation. This summary not only highlights how the water balance is a zero-sum game (strong increase in agricultural water use immediately results in increased water scarcity) with contested use of land and water resources, but also that gains in agricultural produc- tivity do not automatically follow from a strong increase in arable land expansion. In Germany, priorities shifted from agricultural intensiﬁcation to envi- ronmental conservation, due to growing societal concern about water pol- lution (A). The status quo was decades of intensive agriculture with excessive fertilisation (more than crops could absorb), resulting in polluted surface water and groundwater, and failure of Germany to meet EU water quality targets (B). Contestations arose among actors in favour of environ- mental reform (i.e. environmental organizations, water associations, green and left-wing political parties) and actors in favour of the status quo (i.e. farmer associations, central- and right -wing political parties). Farmers had measures at their disposal, for example, reducing manure and increasing buffer zones on their ﬁelds, but these were hardly imple- mented on a larger scale, as regulations were not rigorously enforced and economic instruments such as taxing or compensating to reduce nitrogen were barely applied (C). Hence, little change occurred and high nitrogen concentrations have remained in water bodies (both surface and groundwa- ter) (E).