 The Research Advisory Committee shall normally meet once in a calendar year at the Headquarters of the Institute, on a date and time as may be determined by the Chairman of the Committee. Only in exceptional cases, the RAC may be convened twice in a year. The duration of the RAC meetings may be of 1 to 3 days depending upon the agenda of the meeting. 71G (i) the proceedings of the Research Advisory Committee shall be forwarded to the Director- General, ICAR by the Member-Secretary, after getting the same approved from the Chairman, immediately and the Director of the Institute should ensure that the proceedings are deliv- ered to the Secretary, ICAR within a week of the meeting. (ii) the Director-General shall have the power to review/cause to be reviewed any decision of the Research Advisory Committee where he consid- ers the same is not in consonance with the Rules, general policy, practice or the priorities of the Council provided that any order on the basis of such review shall be passed within a period of one month of the date of receipt of the proceedings at the ICAR Head-quarters. If the proceedings are not received at the Headquarters these may be reviewed by the Director-General any time suo moto. Substituted by the ICAR Society at its 68th Annual General Meeting held on 15th March, 1997 and approval accorded by the Government of India, Deptt. of Agricultural Research and Edu- cation, vide letter No. 6(10)/93-CSC dated 23.5.1997. 27 (Hi) in case the Director of the Institute has reasons to differ from the views of the Research Advisory Committee, having regard to his accountability as Head of the Institute, he should after record- ing the reasons, in writing, forward the same with the proceedings of the meeting of the Re- search Advisory Committee to the Director-Gen- eral, for his decision. Till such time a final deci- sion on such matters is taken by the Director- General, the recommendations of the Research Advisory Committee shall not be operative or acted upon. Note: The outside experts and the Chairman of the Commit- tee shall be paid TA/DA as admissible to non-officials under the ICAR Rules. In addition, they should also be paid an honorarium of Rs l.OOO/- (Rupees one thousand only) for attending the meeting. STAFF RESEARCH COUNCIL Constitution 71H (a) Each Institute of the Council shall have a Staff Research Council consisting of the following members :- 1. Director of the Institute Chairman 2. Joint Director (Research)/Incharge (Re- search Co-ordination and Management Unit.) Member 3. Heads of Divisions/Sections Members *4. All Principal Investigators of the Projects. This shall include the Leaders of the ma- jor programmes at the Institute, Heads of Divisions (HODs) and the Project Coordi- nators.