 Biomass Pellets from Crop Residues as a Fuel Supplement in Thermal Power Plants 9 Biomass Pellets from Crop Residues as Fuel Supplement However, agricultural residues do not contain much resins or lignin, and so a stabilizing agents needs to be added in this case. Distillers dry grains or potato starch are some commonly used binders. The use of natural additives depends on biomass composition and the mass proportion between cellulose, hemicelluloses, lignin and inorganics. Pelletizing: Due to the friction generated in the die, excess heat is developed. Thus, the pellets become very soft and hot (hot up to a temperature of about 70 to 90oC). They need to be cooled and dried before its storage or packaging. The pellets may then be passed through a vibrating screen to remove fine materials. Commercial pellet mills and other pelletizing equipment are widely available across the globe. The cost of the commercially available biomass pellets is ` 9,000-10,000 per tonne. Economic Analysis of Using Biomass Pellets in Thermal Power Plants Following are the basic information based on which the economic analysis of using biomass based pellets for thermal power plants have been done: • Total installed capacity of coal based thermal power plant in North India (including states like Punjab, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh, Rajasthan, Chandigarh, Uttarakhand, Himachal Pradesh, and Jammu & Kashmir) is 44,560 MW. • Coal consumption in power plants is (@ 4,000 tonne per MW of power per year at 85% Plant Load Factor (PLF). • Recommended biomass based pellet substitution in thermal power plant is 10% with coal. • Cost of biomass pellets at the plant site including production and transport costs is approximately ` 10 per kg of pellets. • Cost of coal is approximately ` 6 per kg. • Based on these data, the increase in operating cost of power generation due to the substitution of 10% percent pellet with coal will be 6.7%. • To balance this increase in cost of production, the sale price of the electricity need to be increased by 6.7% of the current sale prices. • According to Motghare and Cham (2014), the cost of production of power from coal based power plant is ` 3.05 per Unit (kWh). • Due to the addition of crop reside based biomass pellets the cost of production will increase by ` 0.20 per Unit (kWh) of power. 10 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Table 1. Summary of costs and quantitative estimates of substituting 10% of crop residue based biomass pellets with coal as fuel for thermal power production in the existing installed capacity of 44,560 MW in North Indian States Particulars Quantitative Values Total Installed capacity in North India 44,560 MW Percentage of pellet substitution with coal as a fuel 10% for power generation Cost of biomass pellets at the plant site ` 10.00 per kg Cost of coal at the plant site ` 6.00 per kg Increase in cost of production due to the substitution @ 6.