 Advisory for Kharif field crop yy The Optimum time of Rice transplanting for mid and high altitude should be completed by month of June and in low altitude it should be completed by fifteen July. Delay in transplanting will affect reproductive phase and yield will be reduced significantly. yy 1000 sq.m nursery area is sufficient for transplanting of one hectare land. During nursery seed bed preparation well decomposed FYM should be applied 2-3 days before sowing @ 10 q/ 1000sq.m or vermicompost can be used @ 500kg/1000 sqm. yy Root dipping of Paddy seedling with Zinc soulblizing bacteria @ 3.5 kg/ha yy Use high yielding and quality seed @ 30 -40 kg/ha depending on seed size. yy In addition Azospirillum may be applied @ 2kg /1000 sq.m area . yy Besides the nursery preparation farmers are also suggested to start main field preparation for paddy transplantation through repairing old bunds by maintaining 20-30 cm height in lowland situation. yy Sown green manure crop viz. dhaincha (Sesbania aculeata) in the month of May. After 40 days (knee height) crop should be incorporated through ploughing (Trampling) 10-15 days prior to transplanting. yy Before transplanting, application of FYM 8-10 t/ha or vermicompost @ 3-6 t/ha either alone or in combination should be applied before 15 days of transplanting. yy Spray of neem based formulation (1500ppm) @ 0.5% or 5ml/lit two to three times can be used for pest management. yy Regular monitoring to control the Fall army worm incidence during the crop growing period of maize. yy Apply neem based formulation (1500 ppm) @ 0.5% or 5ml/litre at 7-10 days intervals for Fall Army Worm Control. yy Hand picking and destruction of egg masses and neonate larvae in mass by crushing or immersing in kerosene water. yy Apply mud slurry in the whorl of affected maize plants soon after observation of FAW incidence in the field yy Weeding and other intercultural operations of maize should be restricted if tasseling emergence start. 2. Advisory for Kharif Horticulture crops yy In high altitude where nursery will be grown for the winter vegetables farmers are advised to use polythene covers/shade above the nursery to protect seedling from untimely extreme weather condition. yy Provide support of bamboo structure for climbing upward the plants like bottle gourd, bitter gourd, cucumber and bean. yy The Ginger/Turmeric plot should be well drained to prevent rhizome rot. The field must be inspected regularly for disease appearance and more often when it rains. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 89 yy Apply bio mulch @ 5 t/ha to cover the ridges and furrows of the field. Start spraying Copper Oxychloride (COC) @ 0.25 % at weekly interval. yy Regular monitoring for increase in pest and disease of large cardamom should be done. Shade management should be done with the proper lopping of trees.