 Chaals without lining are not effective at all locations because of excessive seepage losses. To increase their efficiency in storing the harvested rain water, either the chaals have to be lined with suitable lining materials, or locations have to be identified for constructing chaals, that are low lying and naturally have very low permeability to water. Polythelene and RCC were two very effective lining materials for Chaals used traditionally in the village Trenching along the hill-side wall Terraced block Soil-moisture conservation Land shaping had significant effect on soil- moisture conservation. Soil moisture in all soil layers and at all dates was significantly higher in plant basins terracing and trenching. Trenching enhanced water 6 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture checking seepage losses in chaals. Since RCC is very expensive, polythelene is recommended to check seepage losses from each tank. Conclusion These studies have shown that chaal is an effective structure for harvesting water from lining material. Bitumen, being hydrophobic in nature, is also effective in reducing seepage losses from farm ponds, but its mode of application needs to be standardized in loose and gravelly soils. Land shaping (terracing and trenching) was very effective in conserving soil moisture in tree basins by directing the run-off water towards tree basins and harvesting the rain water. The moisture conservation effect was further enhanced when land shaping was coupled with mulching and observed significant growth of apple trees. Pine- needle mulch was comparatively more effective in moisture conservation. The pebble mulch was also effective, and may be easy to apply at on farm level because of its easy availability locally. However, due to fragile nature of the land scape, the terracing and trenches were damaged due to snowfall and rains, and had to be repaired even after 1 year of construction. Water stored in polythelene-lined tank Unlined tank (control) Bitumen-lined tank Water stored in RCC tank Cocopit mulch Pebble mulch Pine-needle mulch Control plot with no mulch 7 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 3. SOIL AND WATER MANAGEMENT 3.1 Cultivation of apple in Himalayan region Description of the ITK Traditional apple-orchard farming involves the use of contour ditches, water-control canal, soil traps, bench terraces and hedge rows of fast-growing leguminous plants, which have been adopted by the farmers of Himalayan region. Soil and water erosion is a serious problem in hilly regions. Since earlier times farmers used to practice this technology in an integrated way to improve soil and water conservation and manage nutrients in apple orchard. This technology helps in stabilizing the fragile eco-system dominated by apple-farming system.