 Dissemination of Waste Management Technologies Teaching and preaching through practical demonstration are the most effective Gandhian ways to disseminate ideas to the public. For any technology and concept for rural development, the practical example should be shown first to people and then approach of “learning by doing” is to be followed. Gandhiji was of the opinion that the rural mass should be educated about the new technologies and they may be motivated to use these technologies/methods or ways of living. Further, Gandhiji considered that school education was the foundation of rural development. We should educate the rural youth, student and children first about the new and future technologies which can save our environment and nation future. The information given to rural youth, student and children remains longer in the society and has long term positive and tested impact. It is because the children grow and judge the knowledge given to them on many forums for long time and then the real implementation of technology/knowledge occurs. Gandhiji used to say that children learn much faster than others. Also, children are our future and thus the best level of education should be given to them. 5. Conclusion The Gandhian philosophy of overall development of rural sector is based on the use of local resources for self-reliance. The use of waste for rural benefits further adds into this philosophy. The waste to wealth was also one of the main ideas of Gandhiji. The rural sector produces mainly two types of wastes viz. agricultural wastes and animal excreta/waste. All these can be channelized to generate the energy and to provide rural livelihood security in Indian context. The agricultural waste can be dealt using different technologies like briquetting, charring, composting, bio-methanation, gasification and electricity generation, and converting those into food, feed or industrial material. Animal waste mainly excreta can be converted into wealth using bio-gas generation, composting, pelleting, electricity generation and bio-CNG for automobiles. The excreta produced in the villages can also be routed to bio-methenation system to generate the fuel gas which can produce either electricity or illuminate by burning in mantels. The integration of all these technologies can also solve the problem of rural India. The final target is the use of these resources for income and employment generation in rural areas for their sustainable livelihood security. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 119 Chapter 11 Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles Vilas A Tonapi, Nepolean Thirunavukkarasu, Lakshmi Kant and K Haiprasanna “I submit that scientists have not yet explored the hidden possibilities of the innumerable seeds, leaves and fruits for giving the fullest possible nutrition to mankind.