 Rainfall in high rainfall areas is usually sufficient to meet the water demand of current season crops. However, aberration in spatial and temporal distribution leads to water shortage during the cropping season. So, proper conservation and management of excess rainwater is needed to overcome water shortages during dry spells in rainy season. Also, in good rainfall years, with the harvested water, a second season crop is often feasible. Efficient rainwater management can bridge the Indian Farming 19 January 2025 yield gap between rainfed and irrigated agriculture. Rainwater harvesting and management Field bunds and management: In uplands, graded bunds should be provided across the slope, so that these act as a series of miniature barriers to check the loss of water and soil through runoff. The bund height should gradually increase from ~ 5-15 cm from upper reach to lower reach for rice crop. Previous studies reported that for medium lands, the optimum bund height is 20-25 cm for rice crop. Further, the runoff loss reduced substantially with 22 cm bund and with an increase in bund height, number of irrigations of 6 cm each during dry spells also reduced (Table 1). Bund management in terms of sealing in each season is required to check free flow through holes in bunds and additional return may be obtained from field bunds by growing crops such as pigeon pea, black gram, maize and yam in flood free areas. Table 1. Bund height (cm) and number of irrigations for rice crop in a medium land Bund height (cm) Irrigation number (6 cm each) 6 4 10-14 3 18 2 Check dams: Temporary check dams are usually made from rocks, sandbags, concrete blocks, or wood. Permanent check dams are masonry structures and are very common. Sometimes, the masonry head wall of a permanent check dam is replaced with high quality folded rubber sheets anchored to masonry base which can be inflated and deflated to check and flush out sediments, respectively. ICAR-Flexi check dam: ICAR-flexi check dam or rubber dam is an inflatable structure built across a stream and used for water conservation, flood control and regulating flow of water in the stream. When it is inflated, it serves as a check dam/weir, while when deflated, it functions for flood mitigation and sediment flushing. Such flexi dams with a height from 0.5-1 m were tested across stream widths ranging from 2-5 m. The water stored in the upstream side of the dam extends to a length of 0.8-1.7 km. The additional volume of water stored in the upstream side varies between 4,800-10,000 m3 during monsoon season. In case the stored water is used for irrigation in dry spell, it gets continuously filled up by the water flowing from the upper catchment during monsoon. Harvesting potential can be enhanced by integrating the check dams with ponds in the storage area of the upstream side. In kharif season, when paddy crop suffers from dry spell, the flexi check dam helps in diverting water to fields and increasing paddy yield up to 62%.