 AI can be used to determine the soil health, water availability and level of desertification or salinity so that appropriate interventions such as afforestation, cropping system changes, or water management measures can be made. Few drought-tolerant fruits such as aonla, jamun, bael, dragon fruit, pomegranates or guava are Distribution of mango shoot gall psylla under different future climate change scenario by 2050 in India Epidemic prediction for banana wilt caused by Fusarium oxysporum (Foc TR-4) *Map not to scale *Map not to scale Indian Horticulture 76 suitable for the soil conditions of the region they can survive and produce fruits even in extreme conditions and can also be planted for rehabilitation of wastelands. AI can make suitability maps of the environment for example, temperature, type of soil and water supply so that these crops are planted in the right area. By applying artificial neural networks, stakeholders can improve the outcomes of land restoration programme, identify areas that require further attention, and apply proper strategies for sustainable land utilization with increased biomass production and better perspectives for biodiversity. This can help generate employment in rural areas, build up rural infrastructure, and maintain ecological balance. It is expected that the use of AI in agriculture will increase to the point where it is practically indistinguishable from precision farming. AI models will evolve from simple yes or no crop viability answers to comprehensive crop environment management. Facts gathered from satellite, drone, IoT, and weather models will be processed in real- time and made available to farmers as specific minute- by-minute recommendations for irrigation, fertilization, and pest control. Such real-time interaction will result in more concentrated resource utilization, greater efficiency, less waste, and increased sustainability. AI will also be able to handle more sophisticated environmental impacts as farmers deal with climate change. Improving models that show long-term changes in climate results will help farmers plan for climate change. Indeed, AI is expected to enable advances in biotechnology, resulting in the development of new smart crop varieties capable of dealing with adverse environmental conditions. SUMMARY Artificial intelligence has to become the key driver of the horticulture sector, which will provide precision agriculture and sustainable farming. From the arrangement of crop yields and the choice of the crops to be grown to the improvement of the use of resources and the fight against climate change, AI’s inclusion will revolutionize the cultivation, management and marketing of crops. AI provides farmers with solutions based on real-time data and predictive, thus helping them make the right decisions and produce better crops while minimizing the effects they have on the environment.