 Value Addition to Agro and Animal based Fibres ● Each unit has optimized the dyeing conditions, namely dye material extraction time, dye material concentration, dyeing time, mordant concentration and mordanting method for four natural dyes selected on the basis of local availability. ● A total of 1944 new shades have been developed and documented through shade catalogue. ● The optimum dyeing conditions by prescribed methods have revealed satisfactory colourfastness to washing, light, rubbing and perspiration. These are now ready to be taken up as entrepreneurial activities by farm women. NATP PROJECT on Empowerment of Women in Agriculture has been launched this year. Dr (Mrs) Tej Verma, ADG (Home Science) is the Mission Leader and DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 164 Dr (Mrs) Pushpa Gupta, Dean, College of Home Science, Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur is the Principal Investigator. The Project is operative in seven states including SAUs and ICAR Institutes for the period of two and half years with budget allocation of Rs. 3.65 crores. NATIONAL ACADEMY OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH MANAGEMENT, HYDERABAD National Academy of Agricultural Research Management is the lead Centre in providing the human resource development back up to the NARS and policy support to the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). In pursuance of its HRD activities, a variety of training programmes were organized by the Academy for the benefit of scientists/teachers from the ICAR and the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) within the country as well as from developing country NARS in Asia and Africa. 981 participants were benefited from the Academy’s programmes in the areas of agricultural scenario, research project management, personality International training programmes witnessed a spurt at NAARM in the year under report. A Srilankan team at the NAARM development, administration and financial management, information and communication technology, stress management, creativity, team work, and participatory methods. Retreat Programme for the top 20 senior executives of ICAR was organized by the Academy under NATP, at the Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad to sensitize them on macro-economic transformations occurring in the global scenario with special emphasis on agriculture and the challenges confronted by ICAR in achieving its vision 2020. The year witnessed a spurt in the international training programmes. Five International Training Programmes organized during the year led to capacity building of 31 participants from Sri Lanka, Tanzania and Yemen in the areas of agricultural research management. On the research front, various institutional and externally funded projects were pursued actively.