 Tuberculosis recombinant proteins: Tuberculosis recombinant proteins (ESAT-6, CFP-10, and MPB86) can be used as diagnostic antigen for differentiation of Mycobacterium bovis and non-tuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) in cattle. Canine babesiosis: Immuno chromatic test (ICT) for diagnosis of babesiosis was developed for rapid and sensitive detection of Babesia gibsoni infection in canines. The test was standardized with 20 nm gold particles coated with recombinant B. gibsoni secreted antigen 1 (BgSA1). A comparison of various immuno- assays like microscopy, nested-PCR and indirect ELISA with rBgSA1 for detection of antibodies to B. gibsoni showed 12/134 (8.9%), 46/134 (34.3%) and 38/134 (28.3%) dogs positive, respectively. Relaxin based pregnancy diagnosis: To develop a relaxin based methodology for pregnancy diagnosis Establishment of DNA Bank of Indian wildlife A DNA Bank of different wildlife species was established at the Wildlife Centre of ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar. Genomic DNA from 52 wildlife samples (14 blood/38 tissue) from 17 different species were isolated and stored at —20°C. These will be useful for species identification, which is required in forensic investigations. Diagnostic preparedness against avian influenza H7N9 virus The H7N9 influenza virus is considered as a major threat to poultry industry as well as public health in India. The first incidence of H7N9 avian influenza virus in China in 2013 caused mortality in human population. Since H7 avian influenza virus has not been reported from India, H7N9 virus was generated for its diagnostic preparedness through reverse genetics using synthetically prepared genes from genetic sequences available in public database. In an effort to develop diagnostic tool for H7 subtype AIV, the haemagglutinin (HA) of H7N9 virus was cloned, expressed and purified from Escherichia coli. Western blot analysis using anti-H7 serum confirmed the expression of rHA. The recombinant HA was used to develop an indirect ELISA test for detection of antibodies against H7 avian influenza that would provide a rapid and economical approach for early response to impending influenza virus pandemic. Monoclonal antibodies against H7N9 virus were also developed and were found useful in detecting H7N9 virus in the virus infected MDCK cells. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 78 in bitches, the ProRlx was expressed in recombinant form both in prokaryotes and yeast. However, the hyper immune sera raised against the recombinant Rlx could not differentiate the pregnant and non-pregnant bitch serum in ELISA format, probably due to sharing of the epitopes among the Rlx precursor proteins. Therefore, seven peptides were synthesized in linear and MAP format for canine rlx targeting different epitopes. The seven peptides were purified and characterized with available rabbit anti-relaxin antibodies. Polyclonal hyper immune sera were raised against the seven synthetic peptides in guinea pig and chicken.