 Self- sufficiency of rural India means fulfilling the basic needs- food, clothing and other necessities, and sustainable rural development, wherein goats play a key role. Therefore, among livestock, goat is considered one of the most inclusive species. India has rich genetic resources with 34 goat breeds distributed in different ecologies and each one of them performing well in their habitats under optimum feeding, bearing natural resistance for diseases and climatic fluctuations. Goats, being primarily owned and reared by the marginal and small farmers are important among resource poor people for their sustainable livelihood and nutritional requirement. Demand for goat meat/mutton has increased with the increase in per capita income and other associated factors. The gap between demand and supply of goat meat/mutton will widen in future as meat demand may grow at faster rate than that of production. Goat milk, which is also known as natural functional food contributes 4% to central milk pool. Majority of goats in the country are reared under extensive production system and highly depend on common resources. Permanent pasture and grazing lands, the most important commons, are gradually shrinking. The improvement in share of goat ownership with marginal category by 2% between 2001 and 2007 has been recorded. Moreover, flock size per goat rearing households has shown increasing trends among all the categories of land holdings. Unit level data from 59th and 70th rounds of National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) (Land and livestock holdings) indicate that overall flock size has marginally increased between 2002 and 2013 and the goat rearing households have increased by 17% during the same period. Goat, popularly known as poor man’s cow, has now becoming a symbol of prosperity in the rural India. Goat has been found to be best alternative for supplementary income and milk for the rural people who are unable to rear cattle or buffaloes. Demographic change in livestock population in the country showed a shift in favour of small ruminant particularly for goat (Dixit et al. 2012). Goat possesses tremendous potential for adapting to different agro-climatic conditions and on wide range of feedings. 2.1. Goat Population Dynamics There is significant growth in population of goat in India during the last three decades. As per 20th livestock census 2019, goat population in India has increased from 95 to 148.88 million between 1982 and 2019. The highest increase of 16% in goat population was recorded during 1982 to 1987. About 13% increase has been recorded between 2007 and 2013. Similar trends have been noticed between 2012 and 2019, wherein about 10% increment in the goat population was observed. Growth in goat population is demand-driven. In urban areas, demand 41 for livestock products rises faster than the other food groups when income starts to increase (Gandhi and Zhou 2010). 2.2.