 The maturity was also at par with that of the local cultivar and VLQPMH 59, therefore, fitted well in their existing cropping sequence. The impact According to the farmers, the taste of rotis made from VLQPMH 59 flour, was good than that of their local cultivar. Though the grain of VLQPMH 59 was sold relatively at lower rate in the local mandi @ ₹ 20–22/kg, compared to their local cultivar @ ₹ 24-–25/kg, the overall gain was much higher due to its significantly higher yield than the local cultivar. The income from 1 acre of maize cultivation increased from ₹ 44,000 to ₹ 46,200 with a net benefit of ₹ 21,905 in the improved practice. The benefit-cost (B:C) ratio rose from 0.92 to 1.87 with the interventions. Overall, the farmers earned an additional benefit of ₹ 12,600 from additional yield and use of maize sheller compared to the conventional practice. The sheller saved considerable time and energy compared to manual shelling and significantly reduced the drudgery involved in manual shelling. Anantnag in Jammu and Kashmir. The seed was shared with more than 300 tribal farmers in the Jammu and Kashmir regions. The improved wheat varieties showed an average yield advantage of 16–18% over the local cultivars of the tribal farmers. Establishment of Farmer Participatory Seed Production System: Rajmash is the main cash crop of remote villages (Kailashpur, Malari, Gamshali, Niti etc.) of Niti Valley. The climatic conditions for taking seed crop of French bean are very congenial and hence as part of the institute’s work plan to establish a farmer- participatory seed production system at local level. Seed production programme was undertaken at Kailashpur (near international border with China) in Chamoli district of Uttarakhand during rainy (kharif) season. A total of 7.17 q seed of French bean variety VL Bean 2 was procured from 7 Self Help Groups of the village. However, approx. 90% VL Bean 2 seed of last year produce was distributed among 500 tribal farmers of Niti-Mana valley. Farmers got 77.14% hike in yield as compared to their local rajmash with 175.55% income enhancement. Frontline demonstrations of VLQPM Hybrid 59 in Kashmir during kharif 2022 RESEARCH FOR TRIBAL AND HILL REGIONS ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 187 SUCCESS STORY Improved Wheat-Production Technology The challenge The availability of quality wheat seed is a major concern for the farmers of Uttarakhand hills. Moreover, there is a need to demonstrate the yield potential of newly released varieties to popularize it among the farmer’s community. VL Gehun 967 is a newly released and notified wheat cultivar having excellent agronomic characteristics which need to be popularized among farmers.