 Reddy, Senior Scientist (Horticulture), Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad 500 059 (Andhra Pradesh). Results and discussion An unstructured interview was conducted to obtain the details of the ITK prior to conducting the experiment. The experiment was laid out at Forest Research College, Mettupalayam (Tamil Nadu) for 3 years (2002-2004) for trees of teak, mango and neem to assess the effect of soil moisture-conservation practices by making micro-depressions around the basin of the plant (ITK method). This was compared with the conventional basin method for the first and second years. As a part of cross validation, the experiments were conducted at Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA), Hyderabad with grass mulch in 3 years old trees of mango and teak during third year 2004. Moisture content in soil More moisture was retained in the treatments under teak and neem compared with the treatments in mango. The moisture content was maximum at 60 cm depth in both the treatments throughout the period. With increase in soil depth from 15 to 60 cm, soil-moisture retention increased. Biometric observations It is evident that the growth of trees was faster in the method of micro-depressions over the other treatments and the difference was still obvious with pebble mulch during summer. Soil analysis Available nitrogen and potassium content in soil was not influenced by the treatments. However, available phosphorus content (20.3 kg/ ha) was higher in the treatment of micro-depression than in the basins (15.7 kg/ha). The growth of teak and mango at Mettupalayam and Hyderabad indicate that while micro-depression favoured growth of the trees at Mettupalayam, it had no impact on tree growth at Hyderabad. Treatments in mango recorded lower percentage of soil-moisture retention, which might be due to the variation in the distance of micro-depressions made. High rainfall intensities lead to filling of the micro- depressions with soil and all the treatments would be at par with each other at this condition, whereas micro- depressions (ITK) were helpful in retaining more moisture during low-intensity rain-fall periods and helped avoid death of trees due to continuous droughts. Conclusion The advantage of the micro-depressions method is that it can retain the soil transported by erosion in the run-off water, by collecting in the micro- depressions. The micro-depression method has been found to intercept more run-off water compared with basin method. This method has been found to be useful where trees are grown under rainfed conditions. Soil fertility tends to improve in plots where micro- depressions were made at Mettupalayam. 3 Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture 2.2 Rain-water measurement using rolu (indigenous raingauge) Description of the ITK Rolu (7.4” depth, 9” diameter hole on a 3’x3’x1.5’ granite stone block) is useful in knowing the quantity of rainfall for sowing.