 (iii) An undertaking from the organization expressing willingness to mortgage the land in favour of ICAR and execute an Indemnity Bond, in case a decision is taken by the competent authority in ICAR to sanction the KVK to the said organization. (iv) Valid registration certificate of organization, (v) Three years Audit Utilization Certificates (AUCs), 15 Recommendations (vi) Latest Annual Report of the organization, (vii) The proof that the organization has been working in the concerned district for a minimum period of five years in the area of agriculture and allied sectors. (b) Process of sanction ●Applications should be scrutinized by concerned ZPD, as per the criteria for establishment of KVK, for further consideration by the Site Selection Committee. ●A Site Selection Committee constituted by the ICAR must visit and recommend both the site and organization for the establishment of KVK. ●Once considered for sanctioning of KVK, the MoU has to be executed by concerned Government Organization (SAUs/State Departments), whereas in case of NGOs an Indemnity Bond, duly executed by the President/Chairperson, Secretary of the NGO, surety and two witnesses, must be submitted along with Agreement. ●In the case of NGO, the land at the selected site has to be mortgaged in favour of ICAR first before sanctioning of KVK and the cost involved for registration of mortgage deed be shared equally between the concerned NGO and ICAR. (c) Post sanction ●After fulfillment of all essential formalities and submission of necessary documents, official order conveying sanction of the competent authority regarding establishment of new KVK be issued. ●Along with the sanction order, the staffing pattern, AUC format, initial budget allocation, terms and conditions for grants, a copy of MoU/Agreement, duly executed, be also conveyed. ●The concerned ZPD should give wider publicity to the new KVK sanctioned in the district. Further the Committee recommends that the sectoral designation of KVKs viz., Pashu Vigyan Kendra, Mathsya Vigyan Kendra, etc should not be allowed as KVKs have to work on an Integrated Farming System mode and farmers as well as other stakeholders have to be provided technology backstopping rather in a holistic manner. 4.2.2 Additional KVKs in the district In XI Plan, one additional KVK in 50 selected large districts was approved to have effective dissemination of new technologies. The committee recommends that this new initiative should be very selective with full justification and due consideration of the following criteria for the establishment of additional KVK in selected districts. (i) Large rural population (ii) Bigger geographical area (iii) Higher net sown area 16 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (iv) More tribal/SC/ST population (v) Relative backwardness (vi) Mountainous (5000 ft above MSL) and difficult/border areas 4.2.