 In the acute form, there is a sudden onset of fever with an elevated rectal temperature of 40–41°C. The affected goats show dullness, sneezing and serous discharge from the eyes and nose. During this stage, farmers often think that the animal has developed cold exposure and may attempt to protect from it. In the process, goats may be congregated and it may accentuate the viral transmission. In 2–3 days, discrete lesions develop in the mouth and extend over the entire oral mucosa, forming diphtheric plaques. During this stage, profound halitosis (foul smell) is easily appreciable and the animal cannot eat. Diarrhoea develops 3–4 days after the fever and is profuse and faeces may be mucoid or bloody depending upon the damage. Dyspnoea and coughing occur later due to secondary pneumonia. Death occurs within one week of the onset of the illness. Control: Lesions around the eyes, nostrils and mouth should be cleaned twice daily with a sterile cotton swab. Our experience indicates that fluid therapy and anti-microbial such as Enrofloxacin or Ceftiofur on recommended doses along with mouthwash with 5% Boroglycerine can be of benefit in reducing mortality. Immediate isolation of affected goats from clinically healthy goats is recommended. Provide a soft, moist, palatable diet to the affected goats. If possible, parenteral energy infusion in anorectic goats along with appetizers may be useful. Immediate biosecurity measures should be taken for notification of disease to the nearest government veterinary hospital. Vaccination is the most effective way to control PPR. The vaccine can protect small ruminants against PPR for at least 3 years (Table 1). It is important to note that farmers should avoid providing any stress such as transportation, inclement weather, etc. to the goat for at least 3 weeks post-vaccination. Table 1. Vaccination schedule of goat for disease prevention Disease vaccine Dose and method Time schedule PPR (Raksha PPR®) 1 ml and subcutane- ously Age of 4 months and annually Brucella* (Rev. 1 strain vaccine) 1 × 109 CFU and Subcuta- neously Age of 3–5 months (Female) Enterotox- emia (ET vaccine) 2 ml and subcutane- ously Age of 4 month, and revaccinate 8 weeks later and annually Goat Pox* (Raksha Goat Pox®) 1 ml and subcutane- ously Age of 3–4 months and annually *Not in general use in field conditions in India. Contagious ecthyma/ORF ORF is primarily a disease of goats caused by a parapoxvirus with zoonotic potential. It is a highly contagious viral skin disease affecting the mouth, udder and coronet of the hoof. The disease is characterized clinically by the appearance of papules, pustules and scabs of the skin commonly in the mucocutaneous junctions at the commissures of the mouth and nose. It can also predispose these immunocompromised goats to other infections like mastitis, PPR, etc. Similar to PPR, stress plays a role in susceptibility to this disease.