 It is now mandatory for all ICAR-Institutes/Headquarters/PC Units with ICAR employees to submit the Annual Training Plan (ATP) and applications for attending training program in ICAR/Non- ICAR institutes. (URL: https://hrm.icar.gov.in/). Foreign Visit Management System: Foreign Visit Management System of DARE-ICAR (DARE-ICAR FVMS) is an online system (URL: https:// fvms.icar.gov.in) for managing all activities of foreign visits/training/fellowships undertaken by ICAR employees. The workflow process of foreign visit application is digitized in FVMS thereby reducing delays in foreign visit proposals. The system enables the employee to submit the application online which goes through the online approval process and the status of the application is displayed to the employee. It benefits both applicant and DARE officers in processing of visit application more efficiently and transparently. The system maintains repository on the foreign visit deputation report in searchable format. KVK Portal and KVK Mobile App: Krishi Vigyan Kendra Knowledge Network or KVK Portal (https:// kvk.icar.gov.in/) and KVK Mobile App were developed to disseminate knowledge and information from KVKs to farmers. The significant achievements during the year includes effective monitoring and management of Krishi Kalyan Abhiyan (KKA) along with other events through the system. Module for Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) under Agriculture Extension Scheme was also developed and implemented. IVRI-Waste Management App: The App was developed to impart information and knowledge to graduating veterinarians, field vets, general public, farmers and other stakeholders about management of waste originating from agriculture, livestock and household activities. IVRI-Dairy Manager App: App was developed to impart knowledge and skills to graduating veterinarians, field veterinary officers, development organizations and entrepreneurs for promoting dairy farming. IVRI-Artificial Insemination App: The app is targeted to impart knowledge and skills on various aspects related to AI, viz. symptoms of heat, stages of estrus cycle, heat detection, AI kit, proper time of AI, common sanitary measures, thawing, loading of AI gun, semen deposition and post AI advice and follow-up. Hindi version has been released. IVRI-Vaccination Guide App: It was designed and developed to impart knowledge and skills on vaccination in livestock related to all the major bacterial and viral diseases. For each of the disease in various species, the information on the causative agents, types of vaccines available, serotype/strain used for the vaccines, vaccination schedule and commercially available vaccines are provided in the App. The App also provides detailed information about the Government and Private Institutions involved in vaccine production in the country. The app is available in Google Play Store and can be installed freely.