 These changes have a huge effect on plant growth and development. Some common type of bicoloured mulches are silver black mulch, yellow colour mulch and blue colour mulch. Nylon mulch mat: Nylon mulch mat (of 90 GSM thickness) is porous in nature which allows rainwater infiltration and proper soil aeration. Hence, it can utilize rain water which otherwise can not be utilized by the use of polythene mulches. This property of nylon mulch mat makes it an extremely useful orchard floor management practice under rainfed conditions of the state. Other than that it is quite economic in nature due to its high durability. On field rain water harvesting: Water harvesting in its broadest sense Bunding are made individually for each tree. While the crescent bunds help to collect rain water, the catch pits conserve the same. Black polythene mulch in nectarine Bicolour mulch in nectarine Table 3. Response of plastic mulch on different fruit crops Crop Thickness of film (micron) Increase in yield (%) Apricot 100 30-35 Peach 100 30-35 Guava 100 25-30 Kinnow 100 45-50 Pomegranate 100 35-40 Strawberry 25 40-50 Source: Anonymous, 2011. Practical manual on plastic mulching. National Committee on Plasticulture Application in Horticulture, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, New Delhi. Nylon mat mulch in nectarine Table 2. Recommended thickness of plastic mulch for different crops Thickness (microns) Crops Recommended 20-25 Annual - short duration crops 40-50 Biennial - medium duration crops 50-100 Perennial - long duration crops Source: Anonymous, 2011. Practical manual on plastic mulching. National Committee on Plasticulture Application in Horticulture, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India, New Delhi. Rainwater harvesting by making small ponds in orchards Crescent bunding Source: FAO, 1999 will be defined as the “collection of runoff for its productive use”. Ex situ water conservation is the process of collecting and concentrating runoff water during periods of peak rainfall into an on farm water reservoir such as small farm pond, tank etc. for future productive uses. Crescent Bunding: Crescent shape or semicircular bunds with a diameter of 6 to 13 m are prepared and catch pits are also dug on the same time on upper side of slope. Modified system of tree basins Half moon system: In half moon system, semicircular bunds are created at downstream side of the plant. The shape and design of the structure is semicircular with bunds having 30 cm width and 30 cm high at a radius of 2.5 m away from the tree trunk and 5% outward slope for rain water collection. Full moon system: In full moon water harvesting system, circular bunds are created around the periphery of the plant. The shape and design of the structure is circular bunds having 30 cm width and 30 cm high at the radius of 2.5 m away from the tree trunk and 5% inward slope for rain water collection.