 Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 243 Control of bacterial infection in animals Volume 2, page 336 Pepper and garlic Pepper: Bengali and Hindi: kalimirch, kalamorich, golmorich; Gujarati: kalamari, kalomirich; Kannada: kare menasu; Malayalam: kurumulaku, nallamulaku; Marathi: kalimirch, mire; Sanskrit: maricha, ushana, hapusha; Tamil: milagau; Telugu: miriyala tige. Pepper: Black pepper Pepper: Piper nigrum Linn. Contents Active ingredients Geographical indications VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY : Pepper: Pepper contains oleoresin, which is responsible for pungency and aroma. It is used as aromatic stimulant in cholera, weakness, vertigo and coma. Pepper retards the development of rancidity in oils and fats, frozen ground pork and beef. : Pepper: A branching, climbing perennial shrub, mostly found cultivated in the hot and moist parts of India, Sri Lanka and other tropical countries. Branches stout, trailing and rooting at the nodes; leaves entire, 12.5-17.5 by 5.0- 12.5 cm, very variable in breadth, sometimes glaucous beneath, base acute rounded or cordate, equal or unequal; flowers minute in spikes, usually dioecious, but often the female bears 2 anthers, and the male, a pistillode; fruiting spikes very variable in length and robustness, rachis glabrous; fruits ovoid or glabrous, bright red when ripe; seeds usually globose, testa thin, albumin hard. Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 258 Control of warts in cattle Volume 2, page 336 Onion and ginger Ginger: Bengali: ada\ Hindi: adrak, ada; Kannada: hasisunti; Malayalam: andrakam, inchi; Marathi: ale; Sanskrit: ardraka; Tamil: allam, inji; Telugu: allamu, sonthi (dry). Ginger: Ginger Ginger: Zingiber officinale Rose. Ginger: Ginger contains small quantities of glucose and sucrose. The principle carbohydrate of rhizome is starch. The free amino acids present in ginger include glutamic acid, aspartic acid etc. The characteristic pleasant and aromatic odour of ginger is due to an essential oil. The oil contains sesquiterpenes hydrocarbons (50% or more), sesquiterpeas alcohol, monoterpenoids and associated compounds. The pungency of ginger is due to oleoresin known as gingerin. The pungent principle of ginger oil is oxymethyl phenol. Gingerin obtained from the oleoresin by hexane extraction is highly pungent. It is one of the Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Geographical indications Habit best known species. Green ginger is the raw rhizome and substantial quantities of it are locally used as a constituent in culinary preparation; some quantities are also utilized in the preparation of pickle and canned ginger and soft drinks like ginger cocktail. Ginger: A herbaceous, rhizomatous perennial, reaching up to 90 cm in height under cultivation.