 Incidentally, the response of different fruit crops under elevated CO2 condition is a function of nutrition status of the crop, where soil microbial ecology plays a pivotal role. Although, the carbon stocked into the trees is subjected to stiff challenge against long term storage and released into the atmosphere through respiration of soil micro-communities. The carbon stored into the perennial framework of fruit crops is petrified with numerous organic compounds, and then subsequently distributed into various parts of the plants to discharge multiple functions, including their implications on computable economic outcome. While comparing the carbon storage into the soil, which is relatively more unstable, variable, and vulnerable to decomposition, compared to carbon stored into the woody fabric of fruit crops. Therefore, we need a shift of concept, despite the fact that researchers across disciplines are concerned about storing carbon into the soil for an extended period. In either care, recalcitrance of carbon and its residence time would be of paramount importance to exploit atmospheric CO2. Such a concept is anticipated to be successful with minor modifications in photosynthesis system of field crops and intervention of microbes, especially endophytic in nature to store carbon inside the plants tissues. Considering endophytic microbes as beneficial bioagents and potent colonizers of plant’s tissues, we might be able to use the world’s tiniest organisms to solve the world’s most pressing problem. SUMMARY A cultivar evaluated under both intensive farming, organic farming or natural farming system may not perform with similar magnitude of success. The major difference lies with respect to differential soil health indices, which are yet to be streamlined. While talking about Soil Health Card, do we need to breed the fruit crops specifically tailored to such forms of farming, an enigmatic answer still awaits for researchers to either refute such hypothesis or accept with sound scientific database. Hence, linking agroecology with sustainable agriculture is a forward looking agriculture model with more emphasis on genetic, functional and metabolic diversity of soil microorganisms within crop-based rhizosphere. The capacity of soil microbial communities to maintain functional diversity of critical soil processes could ultimately be more important to ecosystem productivity and stability than mere taxonomic diversity. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: aksrivas2007@gmail.com Table 1. Fruit yield and quality parameter of citrus crop in response to different combinations of microbial consortium and vermicompost as varied modules of integrated soil fertility management (Pooled data: 2007–16) ISFM module Yield (kg/ tree) Fruit quality parameters Juice content (%) TSS (0Brix) Acidity (%) TSS/ Acid ratio Module I 67.7 40.2 8.4 0.96 8.92 Module II 71.0 39.6 8.6 0.93 9.23 Module III 80.5 41.5 9.5 0.86 10.05 Module IV 83.2 42.7 8.4 0.91 9.56 Module V 88.8 44.2 9.