 Singh, Deepak Vishwanath Pawar, Dasari Sreekanth and Jamaludheen A. ICAR-Directorate of Weed Research, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482 004 For agriculture, land is considered an important basic unit; however, it is a limited resource. As per the land use statistics for 2018-19, a conservative estimate revealed that from the total net sown area of 139.3 million ha, fallow lands (other than current fallow) and current fallow lands comprise 11.63 and 14.53 million ha, respectively. The net sown area of Madhya Pradesh is 15.2 million ha, out of which 1.75 million ha land is categorised as current fallow land and fallow land (other than current fallow). Modern technological components also led to creation of current fallow due to the non-availability of appropriate resources to the farmers and lack of understanding of technical know-how of the technologies. Weeds are considered as an important constraint leading to 37% yield losses if not controlled properly. Empowering the farmers on technical know-how of integrated crop management practices and availability of appropriate resources as critical inputs were the basic objective for revival of under-utilised lands after wheat harvest. Two adjoining villages namely Umariya Choubey and Barauda under Panagar block of Jabalpur district were selected for implementation of the Farmer FIRST Programme. This article describes the successful revival of underutilised lands after wheat harvest through technological intervention and availability of appropriate resources as critical inputs in adopted villages under FFP. Keywords: Blackgram, Fallow land, Farmer FIRST, Greengram, Weed management J ABALPUR is situated at 23.1815° N, 79.9864° E with an area of 5198 km2. It is considered as one of the most populous districts of Madhya Pradesh. The literacy rate of Jabalpur is 82.4%. Two adjacent villages namely Umariya Choubey and Barauda under Panagar block of Jabalpur district were selected under the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP). The activities under FFP were started on 1 February 2017. The total households of Umariya Choubey and Barauda were ~ 366 and 243, respectively. Umariya Choubey and Barauda contain 688 ha and 380 ha of cultivable land, respectively. The major crops grown in these areas were rice and wheat. Weeds were considered a serious constraint in crop production. During the summer season, lands were mostly kept fallow. Before the inception of FFP, only 2.1% and 5.6% of the total cultivable lands were used for greengram and blackgram cultivation during summer season in Umariya Choubey and Barauda, respectively. Indian Farming 74 (11): 04-06; November 2024 Farmer-scientist interface meeting Intervention Before the adoption of Farmer FIRST Programme, farmers in these villages were mainly dependent Indian Farming 5 November 2024 on traditional agriculture and that resulted in low yields besides loss of resources.