 He briefly presented the report on outcomes of the meetings. Agenda 5.2: Accreditation of Agricultural Universities Presenting the status of accreditation, ADG (EQR) mentioned that at present, 31 AUs stand accredited and the PRT visits of three universities (SVVU, Tirupati; SKUAS&T, Jammu and NAU, Navsari) have been completed. Self Study Reports of 10 other universities have been received or are under revision and another 3 SAUs have submitted progress report for extension of Accreditation. He requested the remaining 13 SAUs to submit their Self Study Reports at the earliest as it is already under consideration to link the financial assistance with accreditation status of the university. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.3: Governance and Adoption of ICAR Model Act ADG (EQR) mentioned that the acts of different universities have variations in composition of Board of Management and other statutory authorities of the university as well as in selection procedure and tenure of university officers including Vice Chancellors, Deans and Directors and others. A suggestion was made that the provisions of Model Act for Agricultural Universities in India developed by the ICAR, may be appropriately incorporated, on priority, in the acts and statues of 5 the SAUs. It was mentioned that the same was submitted to the Planning Commission for taking it up with the State governments, and more recently (in December, 2010), the Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR has conveyed the same, through a D.O. letter, to the Chief Secretaries of all states. All the Vice Chancellors were requested to pursue further necessary action. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 5.4: International Cooperation/Programmes 1. ICAR International Fellowships: ADG (EQR) mentioned the purpose, availability and progress with the ICAR International Fellowships Programme. He presented that the AUs may make use of the scheme for faculty improvement as well as facilitating their pass out master’s students for Ph.D. study abroad. [Action: All VCs] 2. India-Africa Fellowships: ADG (EQR) briefly presented the new programme started in July, 2010 to offer 75 fellowships each year to African students for M.Sc. and Ph.D. studies in Indian AUs to support the agricultural human resource development in Africa. He mentioned that some of the candidates have reported difficulties in initial settlement due to change of environment, quality of food, communication problem, and medium of instruction not being English and non- payment of fellowship on time. It was requested that the AUs may extend their continued cooperation and help to these students. [Action: All VCs] 3. India Afghanistan Fellowships: For agricultural human resource development in Afghanistan, DARE/ICAR has started in July, 2010 a new programme to offer 115 fellowships every year to Afghans for undertaking M.Sc. and Ph.D. degree programmes in Indian AUs. The programme is for five years.