8) in Western dry region (ACR 14) followed by western Himalayan region (17.4). The gender knowledge system in agriculture portal was enriched with a dynamic database on state/district wise gender work participation in agriculture. Enterprenurship and skill enhancement of farm women: Under the ICAR-CIWA-IRRI collaborative project a Women Farmer Producer Company named “Chitri Dora” was formed with the help of guarantee partner PRAGATI at Koraput involving 1,031 tribal women farmers, covering 30 producer groups, for collective marketing of aromatic rice. A rubber sheller rice processing unit was established in B. Ghatarla village Drudgery reduction and vulnerability Stripping the pod from the vines of the crop and decorticating of the pods is a laborious activity. Under AICRP on Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture, a groundnut stripper was developed and tested for 20 hours as per the “Test code for power thresher for groundnut” with essential modification. The designed machine works in two modes, viz. stripping operation and decorticating operation. For farm women a manual disc ridger was also developed and tested for operational parameters to form ridges and channel with proper work rest cycle. The output capacity is 427 m2/h, which is more than 5 times the traditional method of using spade. The walking speed of the subject is 1.78 km/h. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 133 SOCIAL SCIENCE Distribution of female cultivators across districts in India Distribution of female cultivators in 15 agro-climatic regions of India Distribution of female agricultural labourers across districts in India Distribution of female agricultural labourers in 15 agro-climatic regions of India Searchable dynamic database on district-wise work participation in agriculture (https://icar-ciwa.org.in/gks/index.php/information-and-statistics-section/142-districtdata) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 134 SOCIAL SCIENCE of Kotpad block in Koraput district and 5 members of the producer company were trained on operation of the rice processing unit. Under the entrepreneurship development programme with fisheries, participation of rural women in four villages of Satyabadi block, Puri district was taken up with the technology of polyculture of Indian major carps with small indigenous fishes in homestead ponds. Skill based capacity development of 200 fisherwomen of SHGs, Puri was imparted on value addition of fish in entrepreneurship mode and 40 master trainers were trained from 17 SHG groups. The market linkage was ensured with Mission Shakti, Odisha through digital technologies like e- banking, e-commerce and social media. The value added products were also displayed through the marketing website bikayi.com under the trade name Fishlikes. Market linkage of rural women SHGs was strengthened with Falcon Chilka Fresh retail outlets in Bhubaneswar for their economic empowerment.