37/kg compared to manual stripper and 50% reduction in cost of equipment as compared to existing decorticator which performs only one operation. A questionnaire to develop a scale for assessing level of mechanisation among farm women was developed. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 139 SOCIAL SCIENCE All India Coordinated Research Project (AICRP) on Home Science: The research projects under AICRP on Home Science were carried out through five components within the micro and macro ecosystems to bring about qualitative changes in family life of rural households. A total of 362 foods from different food groups having low Glycemic Index (GI) were documented and a database on low GI foods for the management of diabetes was prepared which were effective in maintaining blood sugar levels within normal levels and in reverting pre-diabetic status. The products of high fibre multigrain mix were formulated from locally available functional food ingredients for management of over nutrition/obesity. Region specific nutri-dense ready to use mix with focus on high calorie, high protein and micronutrient rich, Convenience mix was developed from locally available food systems for management of under nutrition. The nutridense food mix products increased the body weight of experimental group. Two MoUs were signed for commercialization of high fibre food mix. A mobile app on diet for diabetic persons was developed by AAU, Jorhat Centre. An effort was made to design and develop products for various end uses using locally available underutilized fibres under textile component. Products of the eco-based fabric such as clothing and gadgets for sportech, hygiene products were designed, developed and evaluated for functional performance and found that treated fabrics have no adverse effects on wearers. A patent on Biodegradable Mesta Composite Pots for Nurseries invented by AICRP on HS, UAS, Dharwad, was filed and published. A study on promoting Farm Women Knowledge Groups (FWKGs) for enhanced use of ICT in agriculture and allied sectors was undertaken and to enhance the use of ICT tools in these activities, capacity building programmes organized, intervention packages were validated and tested for their effectiveness. Based on the constraints faced by the farm women due to the effects of climate change, different region specific climate interventions were provided. Drudgery was characterized and field trials were conducted for promotion of gender friendly technologies in different production systems. Fifty one (51) improved technologies were recommended for farm women in 11 production systems, which can enhance the production and efficiency and reducing drudgery. Ergonomic assessment was carried out in different selected agro enterprises, where the extent of involvement of women was significant. Twenty one (21) technologies were developed for reduction of drudgery of women workers in the selected enterprises.