 This was not agreed to, as the NAE is based on the expertise and competence of the PIs/Co-PIs collectively, in the chosen field and two Co-PIs have purportedly left the scheme. 2. Dr. C. G. Joshi, PI of the centre “Metagenomic Analysis of Ruminal Microbes”, AAU, Anand made an excellent presentation highlighting the following significant progress made. Salient achievements: • The first stage of the experiment which consisted of adaption of animals (Mehsani buffaloes) on high concentrate diet, reared at S.K. Nagar campus, and collection of rumen sample at the end of six week treatment has been successfully completed. • A pilot study to standardize the methodology for metagenomic analysis of active and total rumen microbial communities was performed using 16 amplicon pyrosequencing from fiber adherent and liquid fraction of buffalo rumen and significant variations were observed in the active and total microbial communities present in the rumen liquid and solid fractions as well as variation between the fiber adherent communities compared to the ones enriched in the liquid fraction. • Analysis of effect of different feed regimens on rumen microbial communities has been undertaken. Expert comments: • The experts appreciated the good work done by the centre. In order to minimize physiological variabilities, the centre was advised to use dry animals as treatments and not to include lactating cattles. 3. Dr. B. P. Mishra, IVRI made a presentation on the work carried out under the centre “Development of Bio-sensors for Diagnosis of Peste des petits ruminants (PPR) and Brucellosis”. Salient achievements: • Full length N gene (1578bp) of PPR virus was amplified from vaccine strain using specifically designed primers. The amplified PPR-N gene was cloned in pET 32b vector and recombinant clone was confirmed by RE digestion and nested PCR. Sub- cloning of PPR-N gene was further done in prokaryotic expression vector pQE-30 to produce recombinant N protein. • Full length p17kDa gene of Brucella S19 strain was amplified using specifically designed primers and cloned in pTZ57R/T vector. The p17kDa gene was further sub- cloned in prokaryotic expression vector pQE30 and recombinant pQEP17 clones generated. Expression of desired recombinant p17kDa protein was checked by SDS- PAGE analysis. • The PPR virus specific hybridoma clone (4B11) was scaled up in cell culture and virus neutralization efficacy of mAb was checked in vitro. 3 • The monoclonal antibodies (4B11 and 4G6) were purified using protein-A affinity chromatography and after concentration by filtration, tested for their suitability as immobilizing molecule on sensor surfaces. Expert comments: • The good progress made by the centre was appreciated. Considering the certain administrative difficulties faced by the scientists, the Jt. Dir. (Research) who was present in the meeting was requested to ensure smooth running of the centre through periodical monitoring. 4. Dr.