 Central/States Agricultural Universities and other Departments to co-operate in conducting research through All India Coordinated Research Projects (AICRPs) / Revolving Fund Scheme / and any other such schemes funded/ sanctioned by the council under various schemes to the host institution from time to time at specified location(s) under the specified Supervisor/ Principal Investigator/Leader of the Host Institution. The 10 such MoUs were signed with the Central/State Universities. Besides these, 4 Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) were signed with other organization to collaborate research activities of national interest. 91st Foundation Day of ICAR and Award Ceremony Incentivizing individual employees and teams for their outstanding performance, across organizations, makes them more efficient, responsive and productive apart from improving their level of job satisfaction. The awards, besides recognizing merit and accomplishments, generate healthy competition among individuals, groups and institutions to strive and attain still higher levels of excellence in their respective areas of work. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research has been recognizing and rewarding the institutions, scientists, teachers, farmers and agricultural journalists every year. To commemorate the 91st Foundation day of ICAR, the Award ceremony was organized at NASC, New Delhi on 16th July 2019. Various ICAR Awards for the year 2018 were presented to the winners on the occasion. The awards were given in 21 different categories to 150 awardees, comprising 101 scientists, 8 administrative personnel (including 2 women), 3 journalists and 20 farmers (including 4 women farmers). It is heartening to note that out of the 80 scientists, 13 are women. Three Institutes,1 university, 2 AICRPs, 12 KVKs were also awarded. ❑ 17. Partnership and Linkages DARE International collaboration Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) is an international organization having close collaboration with Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR). It works through its 15 Research Centres. India has been a donor member of the CGIAR System for decades. Accordingly, it contributes to CGIAR System through its budgetary provisions. Out of these 15 Centres, International Crops Research Institute for the Semi-Arid Tropics (ICRISAT) has its headquarters at Hyderabad in the State of Telangana, India. The remaining CGIAR research organizations have headquarters elsewhere, but have strong presence in India in the form of a country or South Asia representative offices in India. India is also a voting member in CGIAR System. The Council and has assumed important role in CGIAR System as a permanent voting member. This responsibility requires reciprocation from India also. Activities carried out with CGIAR System and its Centres, during the stated period are presented here.