 The support also helped improve amenities in the hostels and other services in the campus, including facilities for disabled. Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on careers. Education Technology Cells were strengthened by publication of booklets, pamphlets and exhibit model products. Substantial support from Council was provided and the universities were encouraged to develop overall personality of students by teaching them self-defence, yoga, career development talks by guest faculty, conducting workshops, counselling for exams, etc. Niche Area of Excellence For strengthening capacity building and creating excellence in specific cutting edge areas support of ` 18.50 crore to ongoing 26 centres of Niche Area of Excellence (NAE) on “Genetic improvement of Kinnow mandarin for fruit quality: biotic and abiotic stress tolerance” at PAU, Ludhiana; “Crop regulation for increasing productivity of alphonso mango under climatic condition in Konkan region”, Dr. BSKVV, Dapoli; “Study of Clostridium perfringens and Dichelo bacternodosus (Anaerobic Bacteriology)”, SKUAST, Srinagar, was extended during the year. Presently, fourteen programmes are being supported , and fifteen programmes were concluded in the last financial year.The X Annual review meeting to review the programmes was organized at New Delhi on June 2, 2016. Significant achievements under the programmes were: • Identification and functional characterization of 2 cellulase, 1 multifunctional GH26 and 1 phytase recombinant clones by the centre at AAU, Anand from metagenomics library. Girls Hostel at College of Horticulture, Dr YSRHU V. Gudem for improving course curriculum delivery, student and faculty amenities, personality development leading to overall strengthening of infrastructure in AUs. A total of ` 242.25 crore were provided to complete these facilities during the year. Smart classrooms, supported by the Council enabled effective delivery of course curriculum, ensuring enriched learning experience. The support for the curriculum delivery enabled revision and modification DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 100 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 101 • Beside beta2-adrenoceptors, existence of beta3- adrenoceptor in buffalo myometrium was reported for first time in buffalo myometrium, at DUVASU, Mathura. • Dietary supplementation of pomegranate peel extract (as a source of polyphenols) and supplementation of Lactobacillus johnsonii CPN23 was found effective in alleviating DSS- induced colitis in rat model, at IVRI, Izatnagar centre. • Another centre at IVRI, Izatnagar developed bead based immunoassay(s) using recombinant proteins for sero-diagnosis of PPR. • Haematobiochemical and immunohistochemical studies were conducted for canine cancer, at KVAFSU, Bidar. • MAFSU, Nagpur, developed listeriolysion O (LLO) based ELISA for listeriosis which detected 15.73% antibodies to LLO (ALLO).