 Any industry based on agricultural produce should be on a cooperative basis so that the producers could secure the best value for their output. India has seen a lot of success stories of cooperatives, particularly in milk, sugarcane, fruits and vegetables, crops. Some of the successful cases are AMUL, fruits and sugarcane cooperatives in Maharashtra. The dairy cooperative movement in India could grow due to an increase in milk production. ICAR institutes are playing a great role in technological backstopping to cooperatives. ICAR-NDRI has helped milk cooperatives in producing various kinds of milk products with enhanced shelf life. Due to changing consumer behaviour and rising per capita income, demand for processed milk products is rising and NDRI has transferred these technologies and trained manpower through producing thousands of students who are managing dairy plant operations in various state dairy cooperatives in the country. ICAR-IVRI by its vaccine and other livestock technologies has helped millions of farmers through milk cooperatives. Similarly, ICAR institutes working in horticulture crops have helped fruit crops based cooperatives working in different states by enhancing not only their farm productivity but in post-harvest operations to improve the keeping quality. Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 12 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR The formation of farmers groups for seed production, forage seed, and minor forest produce collection and processing are other notable examples to build village society. Human resource development by KVKs: For agricultural development skilled manpower is vital. ICAR strongly address this issue by helping the KVKs operating under SAUs and through its own KVKs network. KVKs are directly working for rural development at the grass- root level for the transfer of agricultural technologies. Nowadays agriculture is not only a farmers’ job; it is growing as agri-business for both rural as well as urban areas. In the present scenario, farmers are educated, intelligent, attentive, skilled and eager to learn new things that may help in their work. They are using most modern technologies for better production and marketing of their produce. Hence, agriculture is flourishing as agribusiness and it has a better potential to uplift the socio-economic status of the rural community. KVKs are working with a vision of Science and technology-led growth leading to enhanced productivity, profitability and sustainability of agriculture. KVKs have the mission of Farmer-centric growth in agriculture and allied sectors. Capacity building of the farmers about the adoption of new technologies is done through ICAR and SAUs, which are eventually supported by ICAR. The KVKs are not only supporting agriculture but also the allied and non-farm activities through various capacity building programmes.