 To sanction contingent expenditure Full powers for items of recurring nature upto recurring/non-recurring with specific ` 50,000 each time and for non-recurring items upto purpose,other than repair and ` 50,000 following financial procedures of Host maintenance. Organization. 4. To sanction expenditure Sanction power upto ` 10,000 at a time, each for (in a financial year) on repairs to both recurring and non-recurring items. motor vehicles/motor cycles, only. 5. Repairs to graders, tractors, engine Maximum upto ` 10,000 per vehicle in a financial pumps, power tillers, agricultural year excluding replacement of tyres, tubes, and implements and machinery. batteries 6. Replacement of tyres, tubes, and batteries Full powers under standing instructions and prescribed norms. 7. To sanction expenditure on liveries, blankets, Full power in respect of Staff working under him, umbrellas, woolen coats & raincoats, based as per rules on book-value of each item. 8. To sanction for sale of farm produce Full powers as per the approved procedure and price list of Host Organization. 9. To sanction petty constructions and Upto ` 20,000 in a financial year per item of work minor repairs. 10. To sanction payment of demurrage charges. Upto ` 5,000 subject to the condition that demurrage charge does not exceed the value of article, and unavoidable delay. 11. Sanction to write off dead stock, livestock, Upto ` 10,000 following required procedure as disposal of stores & furniture based on decided by the Host Organization. the book value of the item. 7.9 Other points – Stores articles found to be unserviceable are to be disposed of promptly. Any delay in the disposal of these unserviceable items may cause deterioration in their conditions resulting in fetching lesser salvage value besides occupying precious storage space. – Assets Register in form is invariably to be maintained. In the absence of the Assets Register the position of assets, as shown in the annual accounts of the institute, cannot be authenticated. – Some of the formats related to financial management are presented in Appendix XXIX. The Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) who is the head of the AED is supported by Assistant Directors General, Scientists and Deputy Secretary (Agricultural Extension) at ICAR, New Delhi in overall monitoring and evaluation of KVKs. 8.1 National level: The Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) is the head functioning at the head quarter for all extension related activities at national level. He has overall responsibility for co-ordination, monitoring and implementation of activities by KVKs in different zones. In order to exercise this role, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension) is assisted by Assistant Directors-General, Principal Scientists, Deputy Secretary (Agricultural Extension) and Zonal Project Directors in 8 zones.