) (Agricultural extension Education; Molecular Biology & Biotechnology; and Food Engineering & Technology) have been started from the academic session 2017-18. A dozen of the courses are being delivered by the IARI faculty from India since then as per the agreement. Also, requisite laboratory consumables (chemicals, glassware, plasticware, etc.) have been procured and supplied to enable hands-on laboratory practical work. Five copies each of relevant ICAR publications have also been given to the YAU for their archive. So far, four students from Myanmar joined M.Sc. programme during the academic session 2017-18 and two students joined during the academic session 2018-19 in various disciplines at IARI under ACARE programme. Further, four villages within a radius of 30 kms of ACARE have been adopted under Participatory Knowledge Management programme for demonstration of suitable production techniques. In 2018, the ACARE has been dedicated by the Hon’ble President of India to the people of Myanmar. President of India dedicating ACARE to the People of Myanmar A Trainee Batch of ACARE Faculty in IARI, New Delhi 19 India-Africa Cooperation In the recent years, the South-South Cooperation (SSC) has emerged as a parallel mechanism to support the global quest for improved quality of life across the world. Over the last decade, sustained economic growth in emerging economies has fueled a shift in the global center of gravity from the North to the South. The South began looking beyond the North-South Cooperation (NSC) and Triangular Development Cooperation (TDC) - which was enabled by the Official Development Assistance (ODA) for development cooperation. This led to new development cooperation architecture with a considerable flow of resources within the Southern countries. India-UN Development Partnership Fund, a dedicated facility within the United Nations Fund for South-South Cooperation established in 2017, has drawn the focus following the announcement by Prime Minister Narendra Modi with the launch of a US$50 Million Commonwealth window. The Fund’s new Commonwealth window aims to catalyze the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in developing countries of the Commonwealth. The countries supported by this fund are located in various parts of the world and include some of the most vulnerable Member States of the Commonwealth. This got impetus through the first and the third India-Africa Forum Summit (IAFS) held in the year 2008 and 2015, China hosted the Global Group of Ministers meeting for South-South Cooperation in 2018 20 respectively in New Delhi. The Second India-Africa Forum Summit was held in the year 2011 at Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Under the IAFS, special Agricultural scholarships are offered to African Students for duration of two years and three years to pursue Masters and Ph.D programmes in Agriculture and allied subjects, respectively.