 Maps of pests and diseases will be produced by AI to provide farmers with warnings to prevent diseases from affecting their crops. For instance, AI has the potential to estimate pest infestation, such as the Apsylla cistellata that affects mangoes or diseases that affect mango plants, such as mango wilt. Real-time data make it easy for farmers to intervene at the right time, which in turn helps them to avoid using hazardous chemicals and embrace sustainable farming approaches. Areas at risk for banana wilt epidemics, specifically caused by the Fusarium oxysporum TR-4 strain, were forecasted. The predictions are based on current environmental conditions and disease spread models. Urban horticulture: As more and more people shift their residences from rural areas, urban farming will be more important in food production. It is possible to suggest crops with the use of AI to be grown on rooftops and vertical farming within the context of urban farming based on the variability of sunlight and temperature. This will assist cities in upscaling the production of their foods, hence minimizing transportation, increasing soil cover and decreasing greenhouse gas emissions. Yield prediction and quality control: AI will also become more important for estimating yields and quality. This reveals how assistance from AI in analyzing big data will enable farmers to effectively plan for planting and harvesting seasons in order to meet market needs. For example, AI could facilitate prediction of the yield of high-value crops, i.e., saffron and thus help farmers to decide on measures to increase income. For sustainable land use planning in horticulture, dependency on AI- driven models will be inevitable. What we are going to adopt over time and that is where AI will assist farmers in decision-making in terms of what crops should be grown in a certain piece of land with regard to output, soil quality and water retention. Targeting niche markets: A form of modeling that can be used to explore and develop new product markets is called Niche market. AI will change completely the way farmers produce for niche marketing. Using AI, farmers can determine where exactly a new crop/variety is to be grown and where the farmers can reach out for the high-end market, such as the market for organic foods, off-season produce, high-value crops. This will enable the farmers to manage their crop production practices and seek other related income-generating ventures. Restoring degraded lands: There are important functions of AI in the restoration of degraded lands, including the use of enhanced technologies in the collection of data, as well as the analysis of such data aimed at making relevant decisions. Satellite and GIS data can be processed using machine learning, which can determine wastelands and changes that occur in them over a given period.