 But when the crop fails due to poor rainfall or any other such uncontrollable reasons or when there are market surpluses and the demand is lower than the production in a community the net profit to the farmer gets reduced drastically and force his family to land in a great distress. Due to the financial difficulties faced by small and marginal famers, who own the majority of land holdings in India, Gandhiji advocated and believed that subsistence and commercial agriculture are more viable than the market agriculture. According to his ethical principles a farmer should possess only so much land which is enough for cultivating crops for himself and his family and must be able to support the livestock and other support systems associated with the land. He further supported growing cash crops like cotton and castor because of a remunerative market these crops have. Gandhian economic thought for a commercial farming is small scale and locally oriented production, using local resources and meeting local needs. This will make available employment opportunities everywhere, promoting the ideal of Sarvodaya. A concept of welfare of all, in contrast with the welfare of a few. This goes with a technology which is labour-using rather than labour-saving. Gandhian economy increases employment opportunities; it should not be labour displacing. Gandhiji had no absolute opposition to machinery; he welcomed it where it avoids drudgery. He also emphasized dignity of labour, and criticized the society’s contemptuous attitude to manual labour. The other principle of Gandhian economic thought, known as trusteeship principle, is that while an individual or group of individuals is free not only to make a decent living through an economic enterprise but also the accumulated surplus wealth should be used to form a trust for 175 the welfare of all, particularly of the poorest and the most deprived. In the contemporary India, subsistence farming is practiced only in few pockets while commercial farming is a practice in substantial shares of marginal to small land holdings. In the changing scenario, due to the shrinking farming population and simultaneously rising urban population subsistence farming may not cater to the food needs of all. We must, however, work between a market agriculture and commercial agriculture. Commercial agriculture sustains the food supply in a block or a district level and does not cater to long distances. Market agriculture, on the other hand, supports the farm produce to be sold in distant markets. Fast transport systems and advancement of scientific food handling methods are added supports for such market agricultural economy. Government supports are essential for the success of market agriculture economies. Recently the Government Introduced Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Bill, 2020.