 Replication Potential 19 Appendices Recommendation by Parliamentary Standing Committee of Agriculture 23 Advisory by Ministry of Urban Development 24 Awards 25 Visit of Policy Makers & Dignitaries to Project 26  1 Water, food and energy securities are emerging as increasingly important and vital issues for India and the world. Most of the river basins in India and elsewhere are closing or have closed and are experiencing moderate to severe water shortages. Wastewater/low quality water is thus emerging as potential source for demand management. Globally 20-million-hectare agricultural land is irrigated with wastewater and about 200 million peri-urban farmers use these poor-quality irrigation waters for growing diverse agricultural commodities. India is the third largest user of untreated wastewaters in agriculture, after China and Mexico. In India, daily usage of wastewater in diverse agricultural commodities such as vegetables, agro-forestry, fodder, flowers, aquaculture etc. ranges from 2.6 to 817 million litres per day. About 70% of the household economy in India is based on crops grown with wastewater. About 62 billion litres of sewage is generated daily from Class-I cities and Class-II towns in India which has the potential to increase present irrigable area by at least 1.1 million hectares. However deteriorating wastewater quality has been reported to decrease both crop yield and animal milk production over time. Continuous use of such wastewaters in agricultural lands have also reported extensive heavy metal contamination in soils, surface water bodies and shallow aquifers and thus extensive food chain contamination in most of the peri-urban/ rural areas of India. Dietary intake of contaminated food is known to cause several health problems. In 2002, about 2.4 million people died from water and sanitation-associated diseases, nearly all in developing countries. It has also been resulting in an economic loss of about R 4000 to 6000 per annum, due to direct illness and wage loss due to illness, to farmers practicing sewage farming. This emphasizes wastewater treatment as an essential pre-requisite for its safe reuse in agriculture. However at present only 31% of the municipal sewage and 21% of industrial wastewater are subjected to any treatment in our country, mostly through conventional technologies. These technologies are associated with high energy and trained technical manpower. As a result, many of these facilities have been reported to be operating at less than 25% efficiency and economically unviable. Many such drawbacks of conventional wastewater treatment technologies have been overcome through the development of the proposed novel, environment-friendly and economically remunerative technology namely, JalopcharTM.