 For high blood pressure: About 5-7 bael leaves are taken in the morning daily. The juice of bael leaves is added with honey and taken in the morning. 7. For jaundice: Juice of 100 soft bael leaves is extracted. The powder of 10 black pepper is dissolved into it. Mixture is taken daily in the morning and evening. 8. For diarrhoea: Fruit pulp of raw bael is dried. Seeds are taken out. If the dried pulp is consumed quickly, it stops loose motion. 9. or troubles during pregnancy: If one teaspoonful of raw fruit pulp is taken daily, it stops frequent vomiting and nausea during pregnancy. Little sugar candy may be added to the pulp for taste. 10. For typhoid: The body becomes weak due to high fever in typhoid. Bael leaves (200) are ground and boiled in 1 cup of water till it becomes thick. This paste is taken with a little honey, twice or thrice a day. xi) For healthy mind and brain: Ripe bael fruit is taken with fresh cream (butter) and sugar candy  powder which sharpens the concentration and intellect. B. Value addition to bael fruit: Villagers make bael squash and keep it at home, thus preserving and utilizing surplus ripe bael fruit for off seasons. Bael squash: Well ripened bael fruit is cleaned with water and the pulp is extracted. Lemon juice is added to the pulp in the proportion of 8 table spoonful of lemon juice to 1 kg pulp. This mixture is boiled in water (1 litre per kg). It is stirred well while boiling. The mixture is stained through steel stainer. For 1 kg pulp, 1 kg sugar is taken and it is boiled in ½ litre of water for 15 minutes. The stained bael juice is added to the sugar syrup. A little amount of preservative, potassium meta- bisulphite (¼ teaspoonful), is mixed with the sugar solution. It is kept in a sterilized bottle. The bottle is sealed with paraffin wax and kept for future use. Keywords: bael, pulp, asthma, anaemia, fracture, healing of wound, swollen joints, high blood pressure, jaundice, diarrhoea, typhoid, bael squash 2734 Storage of surplus mango (Mangifera indica) Methods of storage of surplus mango are very common in Tulasipalli village of Ganjam district in Orissa, which are in practise for more than 10 years. During the harvesting season, surplus fruits are collected from the nearby jungle areas. They generally preserve the fruits in raw stage or in ripe stage by sun drying and pickling . As mango is a delicious and nutritive fruit, the products made from it are also tasty and refreshing. A. Methods and processes 1. Preservation of raw and unripe mango by adding salt: Matured mangoes are selected and peeled with a steel knife and cut into two pieces. The pieces are put in turmeric and salt powder for a day. Then it is dried under hot sun for 7-10 days. It is stored in a glass jar. It is a method practised by farm women. It is called ambula, which is used as a substitute for tomato in the preparationof curry. Pickles are good appetizers and add variety to the daily diet.