 Due to all these advantages, it is becoming a highly demanded crop and fetches 3 to 4 times higher prices as compared to green okra pods. R K Yadav1*, Suman Lata2 and B S Tomar1 Research Lal Bhindi-1. Pusa Lal Bhindi-1 (DOV-68) This variety was released by ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi in 2022 which was approved by the State Seed-Committee for Agricultural & Horticultural Crops, Govt. of NCT of Delhi on 17 January 2023. Its fruits are reddish purple. It is moderately resistant to Bhendi yellow vein mosaic (YVMV) and Enation leaf curl virus (ELCV) diseases. All plant parts including stem and petioles are reddish purple. It yields 15 t/ha on short internodes. It is rich in anthocyanin (130 µg/g) and antioxidant content (357 µg/g GAE). It is suitable for both summer and kharif season. Plant morphology and characteristics: Plant is straight with 3-4 branches having dark red stem and petioles. Leaves are green with reddish veins and medium lobbing and serration. Flower is yellowish purple and the petals have purple claws at the base on both sides. Fruits are attractive dark reddish purple colour with 5 ridges, smooth surface, medium in length (10-12 cm) and less hairy. Package of practices of okra variety Pusa Lal Bhindi-1 Climate It is a warm-season vegetable crop and requires a Field view of Pusa Lal Bhindi-1 Pusa Lal Bhindi-1 at marketable stage Indian Horticulture 4 long warm growing season. The seeds will not germinate below 18°C. It is susceptible to frost and will not thrive well when there is a continuous cold spell. Soil It can be grown in all kinds of soils, but sandy loam, friable and rich in organic contents is considered good for its cultivation. Seed rate 12-15 kg/ha during spring-summer season. 8-10 kg/ha during rainy season. Sowing It can be grown throughout the year when frost and severe winters are absent. In plains and frost-free areas, the first sowing is done from second fortnight of February to March and the second during June to July. It is sown on flat beds, but in high rainfall or waterlogged areas, it should be sown on raised beds. Spacing: Row to row: 45 cm during spring and summer, and 60 cm during kharif. Plant to plant: 15 cm during spring-summer and 20 cm during kharif. Manure and fertilizers Twenty tonnes of well-rotten Farm Yard Manure, along with N: P: K @100:60:80 kg/ha should be applied. One- third dose of nitrogen and a full amount of phosphorus and potash should be applied at the last field preparation just before sowing. Remaining nitrogen (2/3) should be applied in three equal split doses at 30, 45 and 60 days after sowing. Irrigation The crop should be irrigated as per requirement during summer and whenever required in the rainy season. Always light irrigation should be given. Intercultural operations Apply pendimethalin solution @ 3 litre/ha in 500 litres of water immediately after sowing, when there is sufficient moisture in the soil.