 Though a fragile agroecosystem, it contributes 40% of food production, and supports two-thirds of livestock population. As rainfed agriculture is frequently exposed to various abiotic and biotic stresses, particularly climate extremes, sustaining production systems remain a major challenge. Out of total unirrigated operational land holdings, about 85% are small and marginal. The socio-economic factors in rainfed agriculture have greater bearing on livelihoods of small and marginal farmers. Therefore, the future challenge is sustaining the livelihoods of these farmers who will still depend on agriculture despite increased climate variability and shrinking land holdings. Rainfed agriculture also needs to address international commitments such as Paris Agreement, UNCCD and SDGs. A systems approach in programme mode is necessary with a paradigm shift from commodity centric to rained agroecosystem centric to ensure sustainability of rainfed agriculture. A comprehensive rainfed agoecosystem zoning considering the natural resources and socio-economic parameters is needed for identifying the domain areas to develop agroecology-specific technologies. For this, the information available at CRIDA on 'Prioritization of Rainfed areas and Risk assessment of Indian Agriculture to Climate change' would be very useful. Available information on climate change also have to be considered to examine the suitability of existing rainfed cropping systems. Currently, there is an imbalance between natural resources endowment and rainfed cropping patterns. Potential crop zoning within rainfed agroecosystem zones helps in crop alignment as per agroecology-specificity, crop diversification and developing alternate land-use systems. Refining available in-situ and ex-situ rainwater management technologies in the climate variability context is one of the priority areas as it provide opportunities for high return on investment in short period. Soil carbon management for enhancing soil quality in rainfed production systems is essential. Farm mechanization helps in savings seeds (20%), fertilizers (15-20%), time (20-30%), manual labour (20- 30%), besides increase in productivity (12-34%) and gross income (29-49%). Hence, seed to seed smart farm mechanization is needed in rainfed agriculture. Livestock, contributing to livelihoods and about 16% to the income of small farmers, is one of the important economic and risk mitigation activities in rainfed agriculture. Year round fodder production systems and nutrition management are required for sustainable livestock production systems. Resilient rainfed integrated farming systems need to be developed for enhancing resource-use efficiency, resilience, income and livelihoods. Drought early warning systems, monitoring and real time advisory mechanisms have to be developed using next-gen technologies such as machine learning, AI and public domain datasets.