9% samples were positive for cassical swine fever (CSF) antibodies. Japanese encephalitis virus and mosquitoes in Assam: Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) infection in mosquitoes was screened based on seasonal distribution. Mosquito samples were collected from Jorhat, Lakhimpur and Kamrup districts of Assam. The most prevalent vectors identified were Culex tritaeniorhynchus, Cx. gelidus and Mansonia spp. and found significantly higher during summer (April-September). Cx. tritaeniorhynchus and Mansonia were the most dominant mosquito species followed by Cx. gelidus. Phylogenetic analysis of JEV Reversion to susceptibility in Haemonchus contortus At ICAR-CSWRI farm, implementation of different worm management strategies like strategic drench during mid to late monsoon, community dilution through introduction of susceptible worms and breeding for disease resistance resulted in reversion to efficacy of benzimidazole anthelmintic against H. contortus. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 81 positive samples was performed for the envelope protein gene. The sequence analysis of PCR positive JEV samples revealed 100% identity with JEV envelope protein of human and equine from West Bengal, Vellore, Haryana and Lucknow, which also truly reflects on the phylogenetic tree. Vaccines developed • Cell culture classical swine fever (CSF) vaccine by adapting indigenous virulent CSF virus in cell culture system was developed. This new CSF vaccine provided 100% protection. Vaccine induces protective immunity from day 14 of the vaccination till 18 months as per the testing trials. Diagnostics developed • A highly sensitive multispecies mAb-based blocking ELISA for the detection of FMD NSP antibodies • Sandwich ELISA kit for detection of bluetongue virus antigen • Loop mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) and Real time (TaqMan) assays for food-borne pathogens • SYBR green dye based real time Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for detection of Mannheimia haemolytica • Pen-side diagnostic kits for detection of porcine circovirus and porcine parvovirus from biological samples of pig. The kits can detect the virus of interest (PCV and PPV) within 1 hour. • Multiplex RTqPCR assays in the form of kit for Avian Influenza diagnosis in field samples. • Monoclonal antibody based rapid test for detection of H5 Avian influenza virus in poultry. • A label-free peptide nucleic acid (PNA) biosensor for visual detection of multiple strains of Influenza A virus suitable for field applications. • Indirect ELISA kit for avian influenza antibody detection in chickens and Indirect ELISA kit for Porcine Reproductive and Respiratory Syndrome antibody detection in pigs. The Avian Influenza laboratory of ICAR-NIHSAD have been accredited by National Accreditation Board for testing and calibration Laboratory (NABL) for ISO:17025:2017. Equines Sero-surveillance: Total number of positive and seropositive percentage for various diseases were 556 (47.