 The root bark contains 80% tannin. A small tree up to 20 feet high, reported to be indigenous to Madagascar but frequently cultivated in home yards and garden in India. 80 Cinnamomum cassia Cinnamon H-Dalchini It is the source of cassia oil of commerce. It is grown in China. This species has been introduced into Sri Lanka. 81 Cissampelos pareira False pareira brava H- Akanadi B- Akanadi G-Venivel M-Paharvel T-Appatta Tel-Adivi banka-tige Kan-Padavali Root is bitter and possess diuretic, anti periodic and purgative properties. It is used in dyspepsia, diarrhoea, dropsy, cough and certain urinary troubles like cystitis. The leaves are used as external application for sores and itch. An alkaloid of the isoquinoline group, pelosine or beerin is present in in the roots to the extent of 5%. A climbing shrub distributed through out warm parts of Asia, East-Africa and America, and common in India and Sri Lanka. 82 Cissus quadrangolaris Edible stemmedvine H- Hadzora B-Hasjora M-Chaudhari G-Chudhari Tel-Nalleru Tam-Pirandai Kan- Mangaroli The powder dry shoot is used in the digestive trouble. The juice of the plant is said to be beneficial in scurvy. The stems are made into paste and given in asthama and the powdered root is considered to be specific in the treatment of fractured bones and infusion of the plant is purgative. Fresh shoots are powdered and applied for burns and wounds. A climber with stout fleshy quadrangular stems found throughout the hotter parts of India and Sri Lanka. The young leaves and tender shoot are used in the preparation of Pappadams and curries. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 329 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 83 Citrullus colocynthis Bitter apple H- Indrayan B- Indrayan G-Indrak M-Kaduvrin davana T-Peykkumutti Tel-Etipuchchha Kan-Pavame kkekayi Pulp of colocynth is a drastic hydrogogue cathartic producing large watery evacuations within 2– 3 hrs. The active principle of colocynth include a bitter emorphous alkaloid and resin, both of which have violent purgative action. The roots of the plant also possess purgative properties and are used in ascites, jaundice. An annual and perennial herb with a prostrate or climbing stem, bearing a smooth spherical fruits. It is native of the warmer parts of Asia and Africa. It is found in Arabia, Syria and Egypt. It occurs through out India and is seen growing wild in the warm, arid and sandy tracts of north-west, central and south India 84 Citrus grandis Pummelo H- Chakotra B- Chakotra G-Obakotru M-Panis MalPamparamasam Kan-Chakotre T-Pambalimasu Fruits are esteemed for dessert they are also made jams and marmalades. The fruit is considered to be nutritive and refrigerant. The leaves are useful in epilepsy, chorea and convulsive cough. A bushy tree about 15 feet height.