 Euryale ferox has been reported for various pharmacological activities comprising antidiabetic, anti-melanogenic, antihyperlipidemic etc. Harvesting and yield In pond system, harvesting required experienced farmer for picking matured makhana kernels from bottom of the pond which is very labour intensive. This is done with the help of a horn shaped bamboo pole, locally known as the 'Kaara’. Later on, the mud is sieved through a locally made bamboo screen or sieve known as the 'Ganiya’. The yield of makhana seed range from 22 to 30 quintals per hectare depending upon the variety. In field system, makhana harvesting is less labour intensive and less risky with higher seed yield collection in comparison to pond system. Seed processing The seeds (gudi) cannot be consumed directly and need to undergo manual processing to become 'pop' or popped makhana. The processing involves several steps, including cleaning, grading, sun drying, preheating, roasting, popping, and polishing. The value of makhana significantly increases after this processing steps that Indian Farming 42 March 2024 Indian Farming 43 March 2024 transforms a raw seed to a popped makhana. Initially, farmers sell the raw makhana seeds to processors at a price of approximately ` 90-120/kg. The conversion ratio of one kilogram of seed to popped makhana is about 30-40%, which means that from one kilogram of raw seed, nearly 350-400g of popped makhana are obtained. The popped makhana is sold at a higher price, usually around ` 250-400 per kilogram. Consequently, the value of the makhana is nearly doubled after it undergoes the transformation from seed to pop. Processing of pop Makhana pops are consumed in their raw form, but several companies in India are enhancing their appeal by adding value through the incorporation of various flavours such as onion, chili, pudina, cream, and other spices. These flavoured makhana pops undergo roasting and are then packaged in small packets similar to other snakes/chips, making them convenient for marketing and sale. Thus value addition allows the makhana pops to be marketed as a delightful and ready-to-eat snack option, making them increasingly popular among consumers. Grading and sorting Local wholesalers receive makhana from processors hailing from various regions, and this makhana is a mix of different pop sizes. The sorting process is carried out either manually or by using a makhana grader at the warehouses of the local wholesalers. The size grading is crucial as the market value of the makhana varies directly with the size of the pop. Larger-sized pops had higher prices in the market due to their increased demand and appeal to consumers. Challenges Foxnut farmers are experiencing a lack of skilled workforce on the ground. Workers need to spend hours in water to cultivate and harvest foxnut. But it is difficult to find skilled workers in the area. Weed management and proper harvesting are two crucial steps in foxnut farming.