 For the control of Alternaria leaf spot, seed treatment with Iprodione 25% + Carbendazim 25 % @ 2 g per kg seed is to be done. For Weed control used pre-emergence application of Oxadiargil @ 150g per acre within 24-48 hrs after sowing on wet soil. Apply 5-7.5 tonnes of FYM/compost/ha 2-3 weeks prior to sowing. It is desirable to apply fertilizers based on soil test values. Apply 50% N and 100% P & K as basal and remaining N as in two doses. Apply Gypsum @ 55 kg/acre in sulphur deficit soils which improves the oil content. Boron is an essential micronutrient for sunflower, which increases seed filling and yield. Apply Borax @ 2g/l as directed spray to capitulum at star bud stage. First dissolve borax in hot water and make up to the required volume. Bud initiation stage (35-40 DAS), flower opening stage (55-65 DAS) and seed filling stage (65-80 DAS) are the most critical stages in sunflower. Moisture stress at these stages causes significant yield reduction. During Yasangi season by adopting drip irrigation ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 371 method which can be scheduled for every 2-3 days can save 20-25 % of irrigation water. When sunflower is raised in isolated areas, birds particularly parrots pose serious problem. It is desirable to take up sunflower cultivation in large continuous blocks of 20-25 acres. Crop should be protected from seed filling to harvest through effective bird scaring particularly in the morning and evening hours. Tying of reflective ribbons above the crop will supplement the bird scaring. Safflower Safflower requires cool and dry climate during its entire growing season. High temperatures at the time of flowering are harmful to the crop. At all the stages of growth, excessive rainfall or humidity increases the infestation of fungal diseases. Some of the important diseases of safflower like Fusarium wilt can be transmitted through seeds. Therefore, it is always advisable to treat the seeds with appropriate fungicide like Thiram, Captan @ 3 g/kg seed or with Carbendizim @ 1g/kg seed. Planting time for safflower September 2nd fortnight to October 1st fortnight. Under extended rainfall situations, the crop can be sown till end of October to first week of November. Well drained deep black soils are most suitable. The crop can come up well even in light textured soils provided irrigation facility is available. Alkaline reaction favors wilt disease. Cultivation of cotton after safflower or vice-versa should be avoided as it results in poor yields and inefficient exploitation of nutrients because of their identical rooting habits. Under Rainfed conditions, the entire recommended fertilizers are to be applied as basal. In the traditional single cropped yasangi tracts of the state, application of recommended fertilizers 2-3 weeks prior to optimum planting time is recommended for maximum efficiency under receding soil moisture.