 With this in view, ICAR has intensified efforts towards farmers’ participatory research to develop and scale up location specific, cost effective and climate resilient technologies to enhance agricultural production, productivity and profitability in the agriculture sector and increase farmers’ income. To realise this, Indian Council of Agricultural Research constituted State Level Coordination Committees (SLCCs) headed by a Senior Vice Chancellor of an Agricultural University in each state. All the other Vice Chancellors and the ICAR Directors, Director, ATARI of the concerned region, one nominee each of the related central ministries as well as the senior representatives of the concerned State Departments as the members of the Committee. During the process of the development of the state specific documents, a series of review meetings at the level of the Council were held to discuss and revise the strategies during which eminent authorities including Prof. M.S. Swaminathan, Prof. Ramesh Chand, Secretaries of line departments and other stakeholders including NGOs were also invited to bring in wide ranging expertise to fine-tune the strategies. The documents provide strategies for all the agro-ecologies of the States keeping into mind the scope and potential for development of Horticulture, Livestock, Fisheries, Agro-forestry and Post-harvest processing in the states. The documents focus on enhanced production, reduction of cost, improvement in quality besides providing strategy for scaling out these technologies. The state wise documents were subsequently provided to the state governments from the levels of Hon’ble Minister and DG, ICAR for implementing in all agro-ecologies of their respective states. The state level coordination committees have been asked to oversee and implementation in close coordination with the respective state Governments to provide necessary technical help and guidance to implement these strategies. Indian Council of Agricultural Research through its Research Institutes and State Agricultural Universities is advising states to implement these strategies. ICAR, on its part is implementing the action plan in selected villages through KVKs and ICAR Research Institutes by involving other stakeholders including NGOs and the state agencies. ICAR Institutes notably Indian Institute of Sugarcane Research, Lucknow took initiatives for doubling farmers’ income in Public Private Partnership Model to harness the potential of sugarcane sector towards doubling farmers’ income, and initiated a joint venture with DCM Shriram Limited (DSL), New Delhi in command areas of four sugar mills in 2017 to double income of all 2028 farm families in eight villages of two districts by introducing technological, human resource and developmental interventions. Similar models are being developed & promoted in other ICAR Institutes.