 (p) Internal Audit of the Ministry, subordinate and attached offices under Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and its Grantee institutions, Autonomous Bodies etc. (q) To make available accounting information to all concerned Authorities/Divisions. (r) Budget co-ordination works of Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. (s) Monitoring of New Pension Scheme and revision of pension cases from time to time. (t) Computerization of Accounts and e-payment. (u) Administrative and co-ordination function of the accounting organization. (v) Roll out of PFMS under Central Sector Schemes in Grantee Institutions/Autonomous Bodies. (w) Non-Tax Receipt Portal (NTRP) in Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. 8. Accounting information and data are also provided to the Financial Advisor and Chief Accounting Authority to facilitate effective budgetary and financial control. Monthly and progressive expenditure figures under various sub-heads/object-heads of the grant of the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare are furnished to Budget Section of the Ministry including Senior officers. Progress of expenditure against budget provisions are also submitted weekly to the Secretary and Addl. Secretary & Financial Adviser as well as Heads of Divisions of the Ministry, controlling the grant for purposes of better monitoring of expenditure in last quarter of the financial year. 9. The Accounting organization also maintains accounts of long-term advances such as House Building Advance, Motor Car Advance and GPF accounts of employees of the Ministry. 10. The verification and authorization of pensionary entitlement of officers and staff members is done by the Pay & Accounts Offices on the basis of service particulars and pension papers furnished by Heads of Offices. All retirement benefits and payments like gratuity, cash equivalent to leave salary as well as payments under Central Government Employees Group Insurance Scheme; General Provident Fund etc. are released by Pay & Accounts Offices on receipt of relevant information / bills from DDOs. Internal Audit Wing (a) The Internal Audit Wing carries out audit of accounts of various offices of the Ministry to ensure that rules, regulations and procedures prescribed by the government are adhered to by these offices in their ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 182 APPENDICES day to day functioning. Internal Auditing is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve an organization’s operations. It basically aims at helping the organization to accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, control and governance processes. It is also an effective tool for providing objective assurance and advice that adds values, influence change that enhances governance, assist risk management, control processes and improve accountability for results.