 What is the population of plants used, and over how many generations has the purification taken place? • What are the primers used to separate the MON531 and BNLA106 event during the process of "purification"? Where were these primers developed? There has been mention of thousands of PCR being done by UAS, Dharwad especially for identifying purified event containing BNBt plants. The details of the 55 methodology, chronology of experimentation, population size, primers used, results etc. need to be provided. • What is the evidence to show that the BNLA106 event is on the same chromosome as MON531? 56 - - - - .~ ANNEXURE-IV-B Report of the visit of Dr. Ramesh V. Sontl (RVS) and Dr. Imran Siddiqi (IS) to NRCPB on 24"' March 2012 RVS and IS met with Dr. P. Ananda Kumar (PAK) on 24/3/12 at NRCPB. New Delhi to discuss his and NRCPB role and contribution in the development of BNBt cotton and the issues resulting from the same. PAK made a technical presentation describing his contribution and subsequent follow-up work in the light of questions that have been raised on the connection between BNBt and the paper he co-authored (corresponding author) in Current Science reporting on the development of novel Bt- transgenic cotton. He also provided a written response to a list of questions that had been communicated to him earlier by RVS with regard to his work relating to BNBt cotton. The information provided by PAK and the related discussions are summarized below. 1. PAK presented data from the Southern hybridization analysis in the Current Science paper and his recent Southern hybridization studies with purified Bn-BT. In the recent study he has also included the MON-531 material. This study indicates that the Dharwad event is different from MON-531. Dr. Ananda Kumar also presented data from flanking sequence information of the Dharwad event and development of event specific markers for the same. This analysis also indicates that the Dharwad event is different from MON-531. Dr. Ananda Kumar also requested that a third party verify the Southern analysis. The committee agrees with same. Some grey areas in the analysis were pointed out by PAK. These have to do with details about the event and will shed further light on the nature of the integration and are to be carried out. Further characterization of line no. 23 (purified Bn-BT) is in progress in PAK's laboratory with respect to the sequence of the insert which is expected to further establish its relationship to the construct pBINBt3 that was used for making the transgenic. Conclusion: Prima facie, it appears that the Dharwad event in the purified Bn-Bt, and presumably the original Bn-Bt, is different from MON0531 Recommendation: Third party analysis of Southern hybridization. Dr. Veluthambi of Madurai Kamaraj University has experience of performing Southern hybridizations with plant material. He may be contacted by ICAR for this 'service'.