 Fluidized bed reactor system for bio-oil production Solar-powered onion curing chamber: An onion curing chamber (200 kg capacity) was developed to remove excess moisture from the outer layers of onion bulbs prior to its storage. The temperature and relative humidity of air inside the curing room were maintained at 30°C and less than 65%, respectively, to maintain quality of onion for good market value. The air was heated using solar air heater and electric heater during sun-shine hours and off-sunshine hours, respectively. Onions were loaded in 20 trays @ 10 kg/ tray. The number of sprouted onions reduced during the curing period. After nine days of curing only about 12% onions sprouted, while for control sample, percentage of sprouted onions increased to 37% with the increase in storage time. Indirect solar-biomass hybrid system for drying of spices Use of multi-purpose SORF Machine: An existing machine was upgraded to perform stubble shaving, off-barring, root pruning and fertilizer placement (SORF) operations under trash mulched conditions. Energy Management To meet the future requirement of energy and food, an agri-voltaic system was developed in which electricity generation, crop production and rainwater harvesting can be done on a single land unit. Such system of 105 kW capacity was established at Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur. The electricity generated from the system is supplied to local grid through net metering system. About 400 unit of electricity (kWh) can be produced per day from the system. The interspace area and below PV panel area is used for cultivation of crops, which are about 49 and 24 % of the total under the system, respectively. In I season of 2017, moong bean (Vigna radiata), moth bean (Vigna aconitifolia), clusterbean (Cyamopsis tetragonoloba), sonamukhi (Cassia angustifolia), Aloe vera and sankhpuspi (Convolvulus pluricaulis) were successfully grown. Water harvesting system to collect rainwater from top surface of PV module and to store it in an underground water storage tank was also designed and developed in agri-voltaic system. The system of 105 kW capacity installed about 1 acre land has a potential to harvest about 1.5 lakh litres of water from top surface of PV modules in a year at Jodhpur. The stored water will be used to clean the dust deposited on the top surface of PV module as well as to irrigate the crops in the system. The agri-voltaic system has been installed at the rate of ` 49.84 per Wp, thus the cost of installation was about ` 52.33 lakh for 105 kW systems. Besides about ` 7 lakh cost has been incurred for establishing the rainwater harvesting system and water storage tank. Annual income from the developed agri-voltaic system will be about ` 7.5 -8.0 lakh per year. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 77 The use of SORF techniques improved the cane yield up to 30%, NUE by 13% with a net profit of ` 50,000/ ha (12.6% higher B:C ratio).