 Although the chief function of the department named ‘Department of Revenue, Agriculture and Commerce’ remained revenue and there was no work on agricultural development. Plantation research in colonial India, though the experimental farms were established in 1884, the provincial agricultural departments could seldom go beyond the collection of revenue data and famine relief operations. Primarily, the department was established by the government with a view to supply cotton to the textile industries of Manchester, and not to feed the famine-ravished India. Based on the reports of the Famine Commissions of 1880, 1898 and 1900, the government was determined to set up a central ‘Department of Agriculture’ controlled by the Imperial Secretariat and agriculture departments were to be set up in the provinces to primarily look after agricultural enquiry, agricultural development and famine relief in the country. Indian Agricultural Research Institute at Pusa, Bihar Crop Husbandry in Pre-independent India 37 However, the key duty of the agriculture departments both in the center and the provinces lingered on famine relief. In 1892, an agricultural chemist and an assistant chemist were allotted to look after research and teaching in India, which manifested the first scientific staff in the Department of Revenue and Agriculture. Eventually, in 1901, an Inspector General of Agriculture was appointed to advise the imperial and the provincial governments on agricultural matters. An imperial mycologist was appointed in the same year, and an entomologist was appointed in 1903. During the severe famines of 1899-1900, Lord Curzon, the then Viceroy of India, was convinced that the government must urgently concentrate on the agricultural sector to overcome the damages caused by frequent famines. As a consequence, the Agriculture Research Institute together with a college for advanced agriculture training, was established at Pusa (Bihar) in 1905; and its director was the agriculture adviser to the government till 1929. The Agricultural School at Saidapet, Chennai, which was established as early as 1868, was later relocated to Coimbatore during 1906. Likewise, a branch for teaching agriculture in the College of Science at Pune (established in 1879) was subsequently developed into a separate College of Agriculture in 1907. Similarly, agricultural colleges were established at Kanpur, Sabour, Nagpur and Lyallpur, now in Pakistan, between 1901 and 1905. Systematic research was initiated at the Agriculture Research Institute, Pusa (Bihar) for developing improved cultivars of major crops. The importance of strength of straw in wheat cultivation was mentioned in the reports. Another limiting factor in the growth of wheat in India was temperature. It used to be too hot during the sowing of wheat, and also advent of the hot weather in spring checked ripening and the crop withered.