, a person/organization should not be in a position to derive personal benefit from actions or decisions made in their official capacity. 8.8 Usual basis of accounting will be followed for contributions by which revenue, expenses, assets and liabilities are reflected in the accounts in the period in which they accrue. 8.9 Approval of Competent Authority at ICAR should be ensured at all the stages concerned. 9. Funding from ICAR CSR Fund 9.1 Governance and policy decisions regarding the CSR fund will be taken by the ICAR-CSR Fund Steering Committee. 9.2 The project proposals up to Rs. 25.0 lakhs will be finalized, approved and awarded by the Convener, CSR Secretariat. Such projects must be placed before the ICARCSR Steering Committee within 30 days of its approval for ratification ex-post facto. 14 9.3 Projects/Programme with a budget of more than Rs. 25.0 lakhs will be finalized and approved by ICAR-CSR Fund Committee. 10. Review Mechanism for CSR Funded Research Projects 10.1 Project approvals and review thereof will be in line with the established norms of ICAR. 10.2 An expert committee will review the projects submitted for CSR funding with appropriate authority having competence for approval of proposals. 10.3 Review mechanism of proposals received under CSR will remain the same as per ICAR main online project proposal mechanism. 11. Implementation of CSR projects 11.1 The investment from the ICAR CSR Fund will be project-based and for every project periodic mile stone should be finalized at the outset. 11.2 The project activities identified under ICAR CSR Fund are to be implemented by ICAR-institutes or specialized agencies found fit by the Expert Committees/ICAR CSR Steering Committee. Such specialized agencies would include: (i) Community based organization whether formal or informal; (ii) Voluntary Agencies (NGOs) (iii) Institutes/Academic Organizations; (iv) Trusts, Mission etc.; (v) Self-help groups; and (vi) Government and Semi Government organizations. 15 11.3 While entering into/ or implementing any CSR activity, the followings must be adhered to strictly: (i) Any intellectual property developed/generated under ICAR-CSR activities shall be dealt by the set guidelines of ICAR/DARE. (ii) No part of the fund and/or activity shall be used for brand building and/or marketing the products or services of the corporate entity/company, group of companies (in case resources are pooled for a particular project)/donor agency directly or indirectly. 12. ICAR CSR Website 12.1 All the information about the ICAR CSR Fund, its guidelines, procedures and list of activities will be placed in the ICAR website. 13. Review of Guidelines 13.1 Based on the practical reality in implementation of the guidelines, required changes can be made with the approval of DG, ICAR which shall be ratified in the subsequent Governing Body meeting.