 This treatment has been in existence for at least 50 years in the region and is followed by most farmers. There are no side effects. However, care must Bhuraji (1993) 268 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference be taken to maintain optimum proportion of sugar in the feed. The treatment should not be given to non pregnant animals (Banaskantha, Gujarat). 508 Recovery of animal after parturition Mixture of rice, urd dal and fenugreck seeds are cooked and given to the cattle at calving (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 509 Methods to minimize mortality rates in cattle Offspring birth is regulated in such a way that the birth takes place during April and May to ensure a higher survival rate. This is controlled either through isolation of sexes or through the covering of male genitalia during winters (Ladakh, Lahaul and Spiti valleys, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 510 Control of mange in camels Camels lose hair usually in winter. One can prevent this by applying a special oil. The ingredients used for making the oil are bhilama (Semecarpus anacardium). Copper sulphate and karanj (Pongammia pinnata) oil. Five to ten kg karanj oil, 50 g bhilama and 50 g copper sulphate are mixed thoroughly and boiled. After the oil cools down, it is applied using jute bags as swabs. The only precaution that needs to be taken is to see that the camel does not lie down. If it does, dust will stick to its body, making the remedy ineffective. After application of this oil, the hair growth returns to normal within 10 to 15 days (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Desai (1999b) 511 Suitability of traditional bamboo mat goat sheds in Orissa In central and western Orissa region goat rearing is a major source of income of many farmers. A survey of 100 farm families within different vilages of Kalahandi district revealed that 85% of the farmers construct a traditional bamboo mat goat shed, while 30% go for kutcha floors and only 2% have concrete floor houses as goatsheds . From a comparative study between the modern practice of goat housing system and traditional bamboo mat goat shed, it was found that in case of construction of traditional goat shed the initial investment is much less and not much of the skill is required. The materials used in this shed is cheaply available in the localities. While, in case of modern housing system, the initial investment is much higher and skilled persons are required to construct it. The main problems found with the traditional system of housing is lower height of the Mohapatra et al. (2002) 269 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference bamboo mat floor leading to difficulty of regular cleaning of the faces resulting in poor hygienic conditions and improper ventilation due to lack of windows on the wall.