 For AFLP analysis of 65 diploid cotton cultivars, 6 primer pairs were used. Most cultivars could be distinguished from one another using these primers. Citrus and banana. DNA fingerprinting of citrus using 15 AFLP primer-pair combinations indicated that the rough lemon types, the oranges and the pummelos could be differentiated using molecular markers. Molecular diversity analysis of over 34 banana accessions of 6 cultivars, collected from different banana-growing regions, has indicated the presence of considerable intra-cultivar variation. Neem. DNA fingerprints of 8 exotic and 69 indigenous neem were obtained with AFLP markers. Exotic lines were grouped into a separate cluster; indicating that Indian neem genepool is different from exotic. Plant Biotechnology Till date, physical map region of the long arm of the chromosome 11 of rice between position 57.3 cM and 84.3 cM has been developed by the National Research Centre for Plant Biotechnology, and more than 2 Mb data have been submitted to the Genbank after sequencing. Protease inhibitor and lectin genes and promoter sequences have been isolated from the indigenous legumes. These genes are being mobilized in different crops for developing transgenic plants with resistance to insect pests. Using genetic transformation systems, more than 100 Bt-transgenic rice lines from 3 elite indica rice cultivars, IR 64, Pusa Basmati 1 and Karnal Local, have been generated using a codon optimized, synthetic and truncated Bt-gene, cryIAc. A novel Bt-vip gene was cloned and sequenced from Bt Serovar tolwarthi. The deduced amino acid sequence has revealed that vegetative insecticidal protein (VIP) encoded by the novel gene (vipto) differs from the VIP3a with respect to 23 amino acids. The gene was cloned in a plant transformation vector, and transgenic tobacco plants were developed by Agrobacterium transformation. Insect bioassays using ONE RESTORER GENE FOR 2 CMS SYSTEMS (BRASSICA AND DIPLOTAXIS) A dominant fertility restorer gene from Diplotaxis catholica into Brassica juncea was introgressed that conferred male fertility to CMS B. juncea line, carrying D. catholica cytoplasm. This restorer was very efficient in conferring male fertility but in some cases restorer flowers lacked petals. A restorer that can bring about male fertility restoration without altering normal flower phenotype has been identified. The restorer gene of CMS (Moricandia arvensis) B. juncea has been found to restore fertility in CMS D. catholica as well. The restored plants produced normal flowers. This is the first instance where one restorer gene works for two different systems. l Standardized transformation protocol of mungbean for transfer of cowpea- protease inhibitor gene. l The restorer gene of CMS (Moricandia arvensis) Brassica juncea found to restore fertility in CMS Diplotaxis catholica as well. This is the first instance where one restorer gene worked for 2 different systems.