 Many institutes dealing with horticultural crops viz. IIHR, CISH, CITH, CIAH, IIVR, CTCRI, CPCRI, IISR and NRCs working on various horticultural crops like banana, grapes, pomegranate, 15 onion, garlic, ginger, turmeric, cardamom, black pepper etc. have contributed immensely in their respective domains. All horticultural crop institutes have also been involved in linking their research outputs with the upliftment of rural livelihoods and providing nutritional security. Few significant accomplishments and success stories of horticultural crops that help to realize the dreams of Mahatma Gandhi on rural livelihood and nutritional security are described in this chapter. 2. Gandhiji’s Ideas about Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 2.1. Gandhiji’s Vision on Rural Economy Mahatma Gandhi was vocal about the rural economy and rural industries. He advocated that the India’s progress was dependent on rural economy (Pandey 2008). Presently about 65% of our population still lives in rural areas, most of who live in poverty, while the rest of the country has shown exceptional progress. The Mahatma gave importance to self-sufficiency (Atma Nirbharatha) and felt that rural under-development is the cause for poverty. He used to quote “life should not be a pyramid with apex sustained by the bottom” in his speeches. He emphasized that life is an oceanic circle with individuals as center. Everyone should be ready to sacrifice for the whole unit. His concept was entirely based on sacrifice. From its inception, ICAR has always worked with commitment for the rural development and many horticultural technologies have helped the farmers to find livelihood and promote employment in rural parts of the country. Generating employment opportunities in different sectors by collectively identifying the areas and planning accordingly to materialize the concept of Atma Nirbhar Bharat is one of the major focuses of ICAR. 2.2. Gandhiji’s Experiments with Nutrition and Diet He laid serious emphasis on the quality of food taken by an individual and he conducted diet- related experiments either on himself or tested at his ashram. His experimentation with diet began early. At the age of 18, he began eating only unfired (uncooked) foods (Rivets 1959). The range of Gandhi’s experiments in the arena of diets varied. His interest in the use of orange peels for preparing jams and murabbas are similar to that of present-day dieticians. His strict regimen of two meals a day mostly comprised of fruits and vegetables (Fig. 1). The story of Mahatma nursing his wife Kasturba with dal, milk and green vegetables has been mentioned by various authors. In his book, Key to Health, he wrote, “Whilst it is true that man cannot live without air and water, the thing that nourishes the body is food. Hence Fig. 1. Gandhiji with Sardar Vallabhai Patel. His intake of food was mainly comprised of fruits and fresh vegetables.