 Therefore, in addition to the necessary support from researchers and planners, the widespread popularization of this technology among farmers in a participatory mode on a broad scale requires adequately targeted attention on a priority basis. To achieve the necessary growth rates in food production and agricultural productivity, resource usage efficiency must be significantly improved. This is due to the change in our vision of future agriculture in connection to food and nutritional security, environmental safety and market globalization. Laser leveling is evidently one of the ways by which we can address these issues to a great extent. Despite the fact that laser land leveling technology has a number of direct and indirect advantages, it hasn’t yet taken off as a common farming method in developing and impoverished nations. It calls for a range of well- planned and coordinated research, extension, participatory, economic and regulatory activities while keeping in mind the long-term sustainability of our production systems in order to accelerate its popularization and widespread acceptance. *Corresponding author’s email: raghubar. bhu@gmail.com Demonstration of laser land leveling in adopted village Uprama by KVK, Banka, Bihar Indian Farming 14 July 2023 Package of practices for organic mustard in Bundelkhand B Gangwar* and Deepmala Jain Institute of Agricultural Science, Bundelkhand University, Jhansi, Uttar Pradesh 284 128 India is the largest rapeseed-mustard growing country in the world, occupying second position in area and fourth position in production. Rapeseed-Mustard is a rabi annual, drought hardy crop, capable to grow under diverse agro-climatic conditions and different types of soils. Oil content in rapeseed-mustard varies from 33–46% amongst different species and varieties. Mustard oil is a great affordable alternative of palm oil. Organic farming of mustard is gaining importance in the country in recent years due to increasing soil, human and environmental concerns. The use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides is very low which can be substituted through organic sources. Therefore, growing of crops under organic management using recommended production technology provides a very good yield of 25–30 q/ha obtained in Bundelkhand region. Keywords: Bundelkhand region, Organic mustard, Production technology I ndia is one of the largest rapeseed- mustard growing country in the world, occupying second position in area (19.8% of world acreage) and fourth position in production (9.8% of world production). Mustard crop is capable to grow under diverse agro-climatic conditions and in different types of soils. Indian-Mustard is cultivated under both irrigated (79.2%) and rainfed (20.8%) across nation. Oil content in rapeseed-mustard varies from 33–46% amongst different species and varieties.