 For drought model development, 52 years of data of Sagar and Chattarpur districts of Bundelkhand region were used. The forecasting capability of MK-ELM and W-MK-ELM is benchmarked with Extreme Learning Machine (ELM), artificial neural network (ANN), least squares support vector regression (LSSVR) models and was found to be superior. Machine learning techniques based hybrid model for forecasting in agriculture: Agricultural dataset are mostly nonlinear, nonstationary and leptokurtic in nature. These properties of dataset pose a variety of problems in forecasting. Precise forecasting helps both farming community and policy makers to undertake informed decisions. Three different hybrid models, i.e. empirical mode decomposition based support vector regression (EMD-SVR), time delay neural network with error correction term (TDNN-ECT) and multivariate adaptive regression splines based artificial neural network (MARS-ANN) models were proposed. The EMD-SVR model has the capability of smoothing and reducing the noise (inherited from EMD) and the capability of filtering dataset and improving forecasting performance (inherited from SVR). TDNN-ECT uses the error correction term from the two co-integrated series as auxiliary variable. The auxiliary information in the form of ECT improves the forecasting accuracy. MARS-ANN hybrid model was developed in which the MARS algorithms were employed to extract important factors determining crop yield, and the extracted factors were used for yield prediction using ANN methodology. The performance of proposed hybrid models was evaluated with individual forecasting models using three different agricultural datasets. The results indicated that the performances of the proposed hybrid models are substantially superior as compared to the individual forecasting model. Regression analysis from sample survey data using calibration approach: The calibration approach is commonly employed in survey estimation to modify the sampling design weights using auxiliary information to produce efficient estimator for the finite population parameters. Efficient estimator of regression coefficients were developed by extending the calibration approach. In particular, calibrated estimators developed based upon the auxiliary variable(s) correlated with the dependent and/or explanatory variable. The estimators of variance of proposed estimators were also developed using two approaches, viz. analytical and bootstrap. The performance of the proposed estimators along with its corresponding variance estimators were evaluated through simulation studies. The empirical results based on simulation studies using both synthetic population and real data showed that the developed estimators performed better than the existing estimator. Further, the empirical results revealed that both analytical and bootstrap variance estimators perform reasonably well.