 In addition, Assistant Directors General of National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF), Coordination, Plan Implementation and Monitoring, Intellectual Relations and Human Resource Management also assist the Director General in their respective job roles. The research set up of the ICAR include 113 19. IP, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 206 Institutions which consist of 72 Research Institutes, 6 National Bureaux, 23 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes, 12 National Research Centres, 82 All India Coordinated Research Projects + Network Research Projects. The Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture (DKMA) functions as communication arm of the ICAR responsible for delivery of information/knowledge generated by the network of the ICAR and its institutions; and addresses mandate of ICAR through Publications, Information, ICT, Public Relations Unit and CeRA. The ICAR promotes research, education and frontline extension activities in 74 Agricultural Universities, which include 63 State Agricultural Universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, and 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculty by giving financial assistance in different forms. Indian Agriculture and rural life have undergone tremendous transformation since independence. Agricultural development is an integral part of overall economic growth and was the main source of national income and occupation at the time of Independence. It contributed about 50% to India’s national income and around 72% of total working population was engaged in agriculture at that time. Although the contribution of agriculture to national GDP is decreasing over the years, it is important that the growth of other sectors and overall economy depends on the performance of agriculture to a considerable extent. Because of these reasons, agriculture continues to be dominant sector in the Indian Economy. The post-Independence journey of Indian Agriculture has been quite impressive despite several limiting factors such as uncertainties of weather, declining soil health, increasing atmospheric temperature and emergence of more virulent pests and pathogens. Technological advancements in agriculture have been influential in driving changes in the farm sector. Although the amount of land and labour used in farming declined, the total farm output increased more than 5 times between 1950-51 and 2020. Similarly, the yield (kg/ha) has increased about four times during the same period. The digital revolution has opened new windows for Indian farmers. Technologies like precision agriculture, e-extension, drone-led operations, smart warehousing and transport optimization, real- time yield estimation and price information, credit and insurance management and e-marketing have proven their applicability in making agriculture predictable and profitable.