 Farmers, who are living in Delhi state, can successfully diversify their traditional agriculture by adopting or using various levels of protected cultivation technologies for production of horticultural crops looking to their resources, availability of emerging markets of usual and unusual off season horticultural produce, year round demand of high value vegetables like standard tomatoes, coloured peppers and parthenocarpic cucumbers etc. High quality nursery raising in vegetables is the other area, where improvement over the traditional system of nursery raising is required. All kind of protected technologies may not be economical and useful to the farmers in Delhi, because of their very high initial running and maintenance cost, but some protected technologies are simple and highly profitable under Indian conditions and more specifically for Delhi areas, which can be adopted by farmers for production of different horticultural crops in the different manners viz. plug tray seedling production under protected conditions; Off-season cultivation of vegetable crops under plastic low tunnels; Off season vegetable cultivation under State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 121 walk-in tunnels; Nursery raising for advancing vegetables ahead to their normal season; Insect proof net houses for virus free vegetable cultivation; Vegetable cultivation under Shade net houses during summer season; Low cost poly-houses for vegetable cultivation; Naturally ventilated greenhouses for high value vegetable cultivation. Seed Production: Seed is the most important input to harvest a good crop. The potential yield of crop depends on the quality of the seed used for cultivation of crop. Use of quality seeds alone can enhance the crop productivity by 15-25 per cent. One of the main reasons for low productivity of crops is unavailability of high quality seeds in the local markets. To enhance productivity, seed should be of high quality, which will express full potential yield of the genotype under favourable cultivation environments. Seed cultivation requires special skill and after care. Vegetable Cultivation: India has emerged as the second largest producer of vegetables in the world after China and is gradually striding towards achieving food and nutritional security at national level. The impact of the use of hybrids in improving the crop productivity especially cabbage, tomato, brinjal and onion has been realized in many vegetable crops. This steady increase in productivity has been achieved mainly by the use of quality seeds with built in inbred and hybrid vigor, coupled with the application of scientific production and protection technology, supported by government policies. The population of Delhi is around 1.4 crores which is causing phenomenal pressure on land, infrastructure and civic amenities.