 The basin is a hydrologically closed one, with outflows from the basin occurring only 50 % of the time, as evident from the exceedance probability at the downstream gauge location, S4 (Fig. 5). From the reservoir, water is released to the canal through canal sluices and to the river through the river sluices. Average annual reservoir inflow is around 370 mm, of which 56 % is released to LBP canal. The average release to the canal is around 24 m3/s and that to the river is around 17 m3/s (Fig. 6). Of the average releases from the reservoir, 55.7 % is the release to LBP canal, 39.4 % is discharged to the river and the remaining is the evaporation loss from the reservoir. From the upstream, 13 m3/s of flow is diverted for drinking water uses in Coimbatore and Erode districts and 0.7 m3/s for industrial uses. The inflow to the reservoir has increased over the years, with a positive trend noticed (Fig. 6). Even with increased flow, yield could not be improved, indicating yield to be responsive to factors other than the reservoir supply. Fig. 10. a. monthly flow calibration (1996–2005) and validation (2006–2015) of SWAT model for Bhavani River basin at S1 (Thengumarahada), S2 (Nellithurai), S3 (Savandapur) and S4 (Kalingarayan). b. Scatter plots between simulated and observed flows at S1 (Thengumarahada), S2 (Nellithurai), S3 (Savandapur) and S4 (Kalingarayan) locations. A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 12 The command area of LBIP falls in three districts – Erode, Thiruppur and Karode (Fig. 7). More than 90 % of the area is coming in Erode district. The land use map of the command area shows paddy as the major crop grown, covering 71 % of the area. Hence our analysis was focused mainly on paddy crop. Most of the analysis was accomplished through stakeholder consul­ tation. The Department of Agriculture in Tamil Nadu aims to increase crop production while maintaining the area under cultivation. Farmers are also interested in getting the most yield out of the area they cultivate. The goal of irrigation officials is to match supply with demand. As a result, for the purposes of this study, the performance objectives and metrics are as shown in Fig. 8. The objective of the agriculture depart­ ment and farmers are to maintain the crop yields at par with the long- term normal yield. The long-term normal yield for paddy in the study area is 4 t/ha. Performance metric in this case is the yield ratio which is the ratio of actual or model simulated yield to the normal yield. The irrigation managers are interested in matching the available supply of water to the crop water demand. The performance metric in this case is the supply–demand ratio. The threshold values for both performance metrics are set to one. Historical performance of the system with respect to the selected metrics represented in Fig. 9. reveals the system to be performing satisfactorily in terms of both the yield ratio and supply demand ratio.