 • Solid modeling is the process of creating items from basic shapes. Users can drag and drop prefabricated shapes into the workspace to construct solids. Users can build unique designs by merging pre- fabricated shapes. • The circuit features integrated into TinkerCad can effectively inte- grate motion and light elements into distinctive design compositions. • Users can commence their circuitry endeavors by either utilizing a pre-existing starter circuit or constructing their circuit utilizing preassembled wire components. The functionality applies to virtual circuits. • Circuit components can be operated by pre-existing code blocks or customized C++ programming. Individuals can meticulously adjust and establish parameters until they get the intended outcome. The hardware is implemented at EEE Department NIT Sikkim, as shown in Fig. 3. In Fig. 3, when the temperature is above the threshold value, the sensor response goes to the Arduino, which further passes a response to the LCD screen, LED, and motor circuit. Then the LED glows RED and the LCDs - “Temp: 46 Motor ON”. The motor starts operating until the temperature is below the threshold value. In Fig. 3, when the temperature is below the threshold value, the response through the sensors goes to the Arduino, which further passes a response to the LCD Screen, LED, and Motor Circuit. The LED glows GREEN, and the LCDs - “Temp: 16 Motor OFF”. The motor does not operate until the tempera- ture is above the threshold value. 2.4. Site selection India has many climates, from scorching hot deserts to bitterly frigid high-altitude places [55]. India is characterized by the presence of six distinct climate zones. There are six distinct climate types: Hot and Dry, Warm and Humid, Temperate, Cold and Sunny, Cold and Cloudy, and Composite. The stipulated conditions must prevail for more than six months in any region in India to be assigned to one of the first five cli- matic zones. Scorching daytime temperatures, low precipitation, and moderate winter seasons characterize hot and dry climates. This type of climate can be found in Rajasthan, Gujarat, Maharashtra, and other parts of India. Warm and humid climates are characterized by high humidity, bright sun, and glare from the sky and horizon. Long monsoon periods with significant rain are expected. This type of climate can be found in Tamil Nadu, Odisha, West Bengal, and other parts of India. A composite climate is one in which weather conditions differ from regular for at least half the year. A composite environment contains elements of hot and dry, warm and humid, and cold climates. This climate can be found in Bihar, Delhi, and Haryana, among other places. Temperate climates are characterized by moderate precipitation that occurs consistently throughout the year or during a specific period. These re- gions also have intermittent periods of drought, with summers ranging from pleasant to warm and winters ranging from chilly to frigid.