 As a consequence of reduced runoff, sub-surface drainage has also been observed to limit erosion on mineral soils (Gramlich et al., 2018). However, erosion may still occur along the banks of open drains. The cross-sectional profile of the open drain influences its capacity to slow the flow of water and allow sediment to drop out before reaching the main watercourse. In Ireland, Shore et al. (2015) identified three classes of sediment retention potential for open drains (Table 1), although crucially, soil type will affect the stability of side slopes (Tuohy and Fenton, 2013). Furthermore, the chemistry of ditches influences their potential to either attenuate or mobilize P (Shore et al., 2015; Moloney et al., 2019) (Table 1). Similar research has been conducted in New Zealand (Nguyen and Sukias, 2002) and elsewhere. Correct design and management of ditches can be used to moderate their role as a nutrient pathway to receptors (Sharpley et al., 2007) while retaining their intended function of removing water from the landscape. Efforts to retain sediment will reduce particulate P reaching watercourses. Indeed, two-stage ditches and sediment traps have been developed to amplify this effect (Davis et al., 2015). A major advantage of in-ditch mitigation measures is that they offer potential solutions without reducing farmed area. Modification of rivers and streams is an intrinsic element of artificial drainage. More rapid delivery of soil water to the surface watercourse as a result of subsurface drainage creates greater discharge in the watercourse itself. This discharge exerts force, causing erosion of banks and straightening (or ‘channelization’) of the profile of the river. Aerial photography of watercourses has revealed significant channelization over decades (Hajdukiewicz and Wyzga, 2019; del Tánago et al., 2016). As a consequence, water travels with greater energy which increases the erosion of riverbanks. This sometimes contributes to flooding of downstream reaches. Increased flow as the result of channelization can lead to streambed instability, decreased habitat variability, and consequently decreased fish assemblage (Lau et al., 2006). Excessive or prolonged low flows as a result of abstraction may impair the migration of fishes upstream which is critical for the reproductive cycle of certain species (Ohlberger et al., 2018). The area of land under irrigation has expanded worldwide, from 151 M ha in 1961 to 284 M ha in 2014 (Pellegrini and Fernández, 2018). This expansion has been greatest for 12 countries heavily dependent upon irrigation: Bangladesh, Chile, China, Egypt, India, Italy, Japan, Nepal, The Netherlands, Pakistan, Peru, and South Korea, which together account for an expansion of 64 M ha within that timeframe. Along with drainage, irrigation has been a core factor in bringing uncultivated land into production.