 Gender empowerment is a main factor of agricultural growth. Sex ratio, expressed as number of females per 1000 males, can serve as an indicator of gender justice and social sustainability. As the census conducted in 2011, sex ratio of India was 945 women over 1000 men in 2011 ( ORGI, 2011). (4) Knowledge sharing. Knowledge sharing is an important practice to help farmers and other stakeholders in gaining more pro- duction. The results of agricultural situation assessment survey conducted by National Sample Survey Organization (NSSO) show that 21.14% of farmers in 2019 have taken advice from the progressive farmers on cropping pattern, modern technology, etc. (5) Joint family. The cohesion of a society is bolstered by the ﬂow of mutually beneﬁcial collective activities that are generated by high levels of social capital. Norms, beliefs, and attitudes make individuals more likely to work together; trust, mutually beneﬁcial relationships, and mutually agreed-upon and enforced regulations and consequences are all examples that social assets make up social capital. Farmers living in a joint family system are more capable to deal with any distresses and positively contribute to agriculture sustainability (Jatav, 2022). At all India level, 28.43% of farmers lived in joint family system in 2019. (6) Working population. Knowledge about modern techniques provides an advantage to deal with the distresses faced by Indian farmers such as variability in rainfall and temperature and ﬂuctuation in market prices (Jatav, 2022). Further, it is expected that an educated farmer is more aware of agriculture system and would be more capable to deal with any constraints. Likewise, young farmers with compact modern technology are likely able to utilize agriculture resources more efﬁciently and sustainably. At all Indian level, 56.52% of rural population aged 15–45 years old belonged to working population in 2019. (7) Receiving remittance. A signiﬁcant part of the debate about the impacts of remittance on sustainable development focuses on speciﬁc development indicators that measure poverty and inequality. Remittances tend to reduce poverty, albeit modestly, but the impact on inequality is uneven and sometimes negative. In some cases, increased investment in human capital associated with the receipt of remittance improves health and education outcomes. Financial inclusion has also recently been highlighted as a key tool for maximizing the impact of remittance on development. Overall, the ability of remittance to advance sustainable S.S. Jatav and K. Naik Regional Sustainability 4 (2023) 218–234 224 development is necessarily linked to the policy and investment environment (Singh and Nayak, 2020; Jatav and Nayak, 2022). At all India level, 68.47% of farmers in 2019 received remittance from family members working in non-farm sectors. (8) Membership of agricultural credit society. The primary aim of agricultural credit society is to promote saving habits among its members.