 The cost per head of the machine is just Rs 3,500 and installation cost per acre is Rs 15,000, including of the installation of 3-inch PVC main pipeline and riser pipe; whereas, the installation cost of a conventional sprinkler system comes to a minimum of Rs 6,000 per acre with a 2-inch pipelines. The advantages are the followings: (1) The rain gun can irrigate 1 acre in Shri Annasaheb Udagavi, Sadalga. Chikkodi, dist. Belgaum, (Karnataka) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2934 Wooden marker for sowing cotton one hr 30 min. Sprinklers generally have two nozzles, one for applying water over long distances and the other for short distances. But Chandraprabha rain gun has a special LOPS nozzle, which covers both the distances. Also there is a provision to choose a nozzle size of 17, 19, 21 or 23 mm to achieve the required throw distance. For instance, a 17 mm nozzle throws water up to 100 feet radius whereas a 23 mm nozzle can throw water up to 140 feet. (2) Saving in water consumption 25 to 50% for different crops with conventional sprinklers, but it is 60 to 70% by Chandraprabha rain-gun. Hence it is possible to increase the irrigated area by more than double by using the same amount of water. (3) Since the water is applied with force, pests like aphids, whiteflies and scales, are effectively washed down. (4) Due to 3-inch pipe and wide nozzle, even composts such as biogas slurry can also be applied. Keywords: seed drill, tynes, seed rate, seed pipe, sandy soil Farmers of Antaram village, Mandal Shabad of district RangaReddy in Andhra Pradesh sow cotton with equidistance of 75 cm plant-to- plant and row- to-row with the help of a marker. The wooden marker consists of wooden beam with 3 wooden pegs fixed 75 cm apart. A wooden beam with 6 cm diameter of 3 m length is tied to the yoke operated by a pair of bullocks with the help of a person. At first the farmers use this tool to mark lines of 75 cm in one direction, and later the same tool is operated in opposite direction to make mini squares of length and width of 75 cm rows. On an average this tool can cover 1.5 ha in a day costing Rs 120. Shri V. Srinivas, Research Associate, TARIVLP,Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture, Hyderabad (Andra Pradesh) 500 059 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2935 Wooden blade harrow for intercultivation of cotton 2936 Mango harvesting in basket 2937 Coconut harvester Farmers reported that the square planting of cotton facilitates placement of cottonseed at intercept point for good germination. Later square planting of cotton helps reduce the cost of weeding operations by Rs 200/ha.