 pearlmillet + greengram systems is prevalent in Rajastan. Mixed cropping of Sorghum + pigeonpea in Madhya Pradesh and Utter Pradesh helps in reducing the risk of root nematode incidence. Mixed cropping with the crops like corainder, carrot were useful as the host plants for adults of many parasites (All rainfed regions). Sanghi (1993) 75 Increasing cropping intensity through relay planting of cucurbits with wheat Planting of cucurbits, viz cucumber, bottle gourd and bitter gourd as relay crop after cutting 75 cm wide strips of standing wheat crop at an interval of 2-3 m in the month of March is done in order to harvest early crop of cucurbits. The green wheat crop cut is used as fodder. The main focus of the system is that sowing of cucurbits is advanced considerably, and early marketing helps in fetching higher return from the harvest (Himachal Pradesh). Singh (1996) 36 CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 76 Increasing cropping intensity through maize + tomato inter- cropping Maize crop is sown by keeping a row to row distance of 75 cm in the month of June and tomato (tall varieties) on ridges in between rows with onset of monsoon. Tomato is staked on maize plants by tying with polythene ropes. Maize cobs are harvested in the month of August or September, while the tomato crop is continued up to October. Rainy season tomato cultivation is becoming popular amongst the farmers of rainfed areas in the region. Farmers in this region have small holdings, hence they do not want to sacrifice maize. Also, staking material is a limitation in the area, therefore using maize as staked material is a plus point in practice (Hamirpur, Himachal Pradesh). Thakur et al. (2000) 77 Increasing cropping intensity with a cover crop Farmers grow seeds of karingada (Citrullus lanatus) in the castor/sorghum fields at the beginning of monsoon. The vines of the karingada cover almost the entire surface of the field by the end of monsoon. This helps in conserving the moisture for the castor plant. After the rainy season and harvest of the crop, the Karingada fruit serves as a good feed for the animals. This system conserves higher soil moisture in the top layer of the soil. The reason can be that the broad leaves of the crop spread closely, might have acted as live mulch. Secondly, karingada root system penetrates deep into the soil very fast and it does not compete with the main crop for getting soil moisture from the same top layer (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Patel (1992g) 78 Ratooning of rice Economically poor farmers in this region first harvest early paddy by beheading the panicles and leave the plant as such. If there is good late rain, they get the second crop from the tillers which has not flowered earlier. And if there is no rain only straw is harvested. In the first crop, approximately 1.75–2 tonnes/ha yield and from the second crop 0.5-0.75 tonnes/ha yield is harvested (Faizabad, Uttar Pradesh).