 Large corporations, start-up businesses, and entrepreneurial ventures are being drawn to invest heavily in innovations, inventions, research and development, and other aspects of business due to favourable weather and soil conditions, high food demand, untapped opportunities, and various fiscal incentives provided by the government for inputs, production infrastructure, and the availability of cheap credit facilities. The future of agriculture lies in the efforts being made to turn all of the problems facing the industry into opportunities. Future Trends 1. Changing demand brought on by rising incomes, globalisation, and health consciousness is already having an impact on production and will have a greater impact in the future. In the future, there will be a rise in demand for dairy products, fish, meat, and fruits and vegetables. 2. There will be more research, technology advancements, and protected growing of high-value greens and other vegetables. The need for processed, high-quality products at reasonable prices will increase. 3. There will be more competition among private businesses to offer new products, better seeds, fertilisers, plant protection chemicals, specialised farm equipment, animal feed, etc. in cost-effective ways at prices that are competitive with one another, increasing returns on investment for farmers. The use of biotechnology and breeding India and Agriculture | 11 will be crucial in creating crop varieties that are more nutrient-dense, disease-resistant, climate adaptable, and delicious. 4. While some technologies will quickly become commonplace and be utilised widely in the future, others will take more time to develop for producing the same goods in a different way that makes more efficient use of resources and makes use of new resources as well, such as hydroponics, the use of plastics and bioplastics. Urban farming and vertical farming will increase, and there will be long-term efforts to identify new producing places such desolate deserts and seas. 5. The focus will be on precise application inputs in agriculture, with decisions based on soil testing and automation using artificial intelligence. Drones and sensors will be used in an economical way for accuracy, quality, and the environment. 6. In addition, small and marginal farmers will use these technologies with assistance from the government, farmer producer organisations, or private parties (FPO). The use of GPS technology, drones, robots, and other devices controlled by smartphones can make farming simpler and more fun while producing good results. These cutting-edge tools will improve agriculture and make it easier, more profitable, and more environmentally benign. 7. Usage nanotechnology to improve food quality and safety; in the near future, this will lead to efficient input use. Using nanomaterials in agriculture will decrease chemical waste, minimise nutrient losses during fertilisation, and be used to manage pests and nutrients to boost productivity.