 In North India (Uttarakhand), NGO named People’s Science Institute tried field trial in five farmers’ plots in 2007 and obtained 33% yield increase over conventional method. Later, 43 farmers of Uttarakhand tested this method on 0.8 ha in 2008 and observed 60% yield increase (from 1.5–2.4 t/ha) leading to more and more adoption by around 1000 farmers with some local modifications (use of 15–20 days old seedlings, spacing of 20 cm × 20 cm etc.). In Orissa, SFMI began in Koraput district in 2010 by NGO Pragati and initial yield was 2.1–2.25 t/ha over 1–1.1 t/ha in conventional method. Gradually, adoption of SFMI in Orissa has been increased and 4.5–4.7 t/ha yield from improved varieties (maximum 6 t/ha) has been noticed in 2016 along with climate resilience specially against cyclone. One popular local modification of Guli ragi method is Jamuna method of ragi cultivation in which instead of seedlings, seeds are sown in hole due to issues of high rainfall/water and other practices remain same. Globally, SFMI is practiced in Ethiopia, Nepal, Malawi, etc. In Tigray province of Ethiopia, an elderly woman farmer (Mama Yehansu) first adopted SFMI in 2003 by growing 30 days old seedling at 25–30 cm spacing and obtained 7.8 t/ha yield over 1.4–2.8 t/ha yield under conventional broadcasting method in rainfed condition leading to higher adoption by other farmers. In Ethiopia, they call this method as planting with space method and obtain 4–5 t/ha mean yield of finger millet. In Rampur, Nepal, SFMI (transplanting of 15 days old seedlings) has ensured 82% and 25% higher yields than direct sowing and conventional transplanting (30 days old seedlings). Since, 2015, farmers of Malawi have also started practicing SFMI. Benefits • It creates vigorous crop growth with 4–5 times increase in tillers. • Branching of culm is also higher in SFMI over conventional process. • It improves panicle length, number of fingers as well as test weight of finger millet grains. • Soil health is improved through organic manuring, tillage and weed control. • It ensures better weed control due to wider spacing of crop. Interculture operations help in improvement of root system. • It increases root volume and biomass for facilitation of nutrients and water uptake, resulting in yield improvement. • It prolongs the crop maturity leading to high vegetative growth and reproductive organ development. • It makes the crop to resist lodging, pest and disease attacks and to cope up with climate change. Limitations • Mechanical and financial support, policies and subsidies, availability of organic manures as well as technical know-how and adequate research works are lacking to limit adoption of SFMI especially from small- scale farmers. Comparative growth of ragi under SFMI (left) and conventional method (right) in Jharkhand Source: Abraham et al.