 Facebook, twitter, Youtube Channel etc. yy Publishing of agricultural research technologies in print media, electronic media and on Social Media platforms. 3. Main Tasks, Responsibilities & Scope of Work: a) Writing features on new technologies, new varieties and success stories. GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 21 b) Editing and designing of the content (including images) for print and e-mode including social media platforms i.e. Facebook, Twitter, Youtube Channel etc. 4. Time Frame The empanelment of press and media communication specialists will be for one year. 5. Deliverables a) To publish agricultural based Success Stories of entire NARS through print media, electronic media and social media platforms. b) To develop Feature/ News Reports for publication in Newspapers 6. Outcome: a) Enhanced visibility of the agricultural technologies developed by ICAR in regional and national media. b) Regular coverage of agricultural issues in print media c) Creation of sustainable information flow system d) Dissemination of ICAR technologies for the benefit of farmers and masses e) Motivation to farmers to adopt ICAR technologies f) Increased awareness among farmers to adopt innovative technologies 7. Monitoring the performance of the press and media communication specialists: A Committee will monitor the performance of press and media communication specialists on quarterly basis. 8. Qualification, Skills, knowledge and Competencies requirement press and media communication specialists: Qualification and Experience requirement for the empanelment of Press and media Communication Specialists Essential Qualifications: Master’s degree in Mass Communication/PG Diploma in Mass Communication/Journalism from a recognized university/Institute GUIDELINES FOR PROMOTING BRAND ‘ICAR’ 22 Experience: A communication professional having proven record of professional contribution of working in reputed press/media organization having at least 5 years’ experience in content writing/development for social/ digital media. Desirable Qualification & Experience: Excellent writing, editing, presentation and communication skills in English, Hindi and regional languages Experience in content writing/development for social/digital media in agricultural and allied sector will be preferable 9. Procedure for empanelment of press and media communication specialists: Through open advertisement in all format as per GFR provision 10. Selection Criteria: The selection will be based on the basis of weightage of marks in Qualification, Experience in the relevant field and performance in the interview Criteria for awarding marks: S.N. Parameters Max. Marks assigned 2. Master Degree 20* 3. NET/Ph.D 10 4. Experience 30 5.