 With the introduction of rice in Indo Gangatic alluvial plains, iron chlorosis in rice caused low yield, but subsequently after 5‐7 years, iron deficiency got reduced due to increased availability of iron under submergence. However. Mn deficiency became apperant which caused lower productivity of wheat. Currently about 5 lakh hs is suffering with its deficiency and needs regular foliar sprays to sustain high yield. • In mid nineties, deficiency of boron and its responses to crops were recorded in several areas. Deficiency is found more in acid and alkaline soils. In recent years, copper deficiencies is recorded in few location but it may emerge as important micronutrient in several areas of Punjab, North Uttar Pradesh , Tamil Nadu etc. Molybdenum deficiencies is recorded in few acidic soils but response is found more to pulse and few vegetable crops. Deficiency of magnesium is recorded in certain specific crops like cotton, tea etc. • Nutrient indexing for micro‐ and secondary‐ nutrients in low and high productivity areas of different AER has been initiated in different soil‐crop‐management system. The programme has been initiated at all 11 centres with respect to monitoring of 20 bench mark sites for emerging micronutrient deficiencies at 2‐3 sites representing different soil‐crop‐ management systems.. Data of periodic survey is in initial years revealed that more and more area is suffering with multi nutrient deficiencies. Reassessment of multi micronutrient deficiencies and developing digitized maps using GIS • Geo referenced based micronutrient fertility mapping has been initiated to forecast emerging deficiencies of various micronutrients in different soils periodically. All the centres have been provided GPS system and priorities are fixed to go GPS based soil sampling in future. • Studies initiated by Ludhiana centre to collect surface (0‐15 cm) samples and GIS based mapping on 1:50,000 scale , total 480, 690 and 408 sites were sampled in Muktsar, Patiala and Hosiarpur districts, in collaboration with Remote Sensing Agency, Punjab. Maps for various nutrient elements were generated and digitized using Arc info GIS. • Average micronutrient status, percent deficiency and total areas affected with different micronutrient deficiencies have been worked out. The deficiency of zinc was 37% in Muktsar comared 12% in Patiala but Patiala has maximum deficiency of B (36%). Hosiarpur soils has maximum deficiency of Mn 24% and that of Fe 10% .. • In Muktsar district, 42 per cent of (total cultivable area) in the district (1.1 lac ha) represented by category SSSS (all the micronutrients (Fe, Cu, Mn, Zn) are above the critical www.icar.org.in 60 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management limit), followed by category SSSD which spreads over an area of 46002 ha (17.5 % of TGA) and in this category all micronutrients except Zn are available to plants in sufficient amount.