 Among the micronutrients, zinc deficiency in soil, plants, animals and human beings is important. The dependence of human beings on low zinc rice-based diet induces stunted growth, improper development, low intelligence, diseases due to low immunity and subsequently death. Globally, zinc deficiency affects over 30% of the population. Some consider zinc deficiency as the second important factor after nitrogen. However, a survey by International Rice Research Institute revealed that nitrogen is the most important nutrient followed by phosphorus and potassium (joint second) and zinc and sulphur (joint third). Zinc deficiency is problematic in China, Japan, India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Sri Lanka, Philippines, United States of America and Colombia (under lowland) and in the Cerrado of Brazil (under upland). Role of zinc in plant Zinc is an essential component of various enzymes responsible for metabolic reactions in plants. Also, it has role in activation of several enzymes. Zinc is involved in auxin metabolism and this hormone is useful for adaptation to abiotic stresses through lateral root development. Indole acetic acid belonging to auxin group helps in stem elongation. Zinc is involved in protein and carbohydrate metabolism. Also, it is involved in pollen formation and in maintaining the stability of biological membranes. Zinc has role in chlorophyll synthesis, so, in deficient soil, zinc application prolongs the period of plant greenness. Symptoms of zinc deficiency Zinc deficiency symptoms are pronounced at early growth stages. Commonly, these appears at about 2 to 3 weeks after transplanting. Zinc is partly immobile in plants. So, the deficiency symptoms appear on the second or third leaves from the top. For testing the deficiency, second or third leaf from the top is selected. Rice leaves develop brown blotches and streaks that may fuse to cover older leaves. Affected plants remain stunted and die in severe cases. This leads to few surviving plants in field. Sometimes, the native zinc Indian Farming 8 May 2023 content in soil is available after the initial stress due to improved soil pH, redox potential and reduced concentration of antagonistic elements (Phosphorous, iron, manganese). In such situations, plants recover, but with reduction in plant height, tiller number and grain yield. Also, there is delay in maturity and increased chaff production. The extent of these adverse effects depends on the period for which the crop was subjected to deficiency. So, zinc fertilizer application should aim for early application so that the crop does not suffer much. matter and bicarbonate content, high magnesium to calcium ratio, and high available phosphorous. High soil pH is the main factor for widespread zinc deficiency in the calcareous soils of the Indo-Gangetic plains. Availability reduces by 100-fold for each unit increase in pH. Perennial wetness is the major cause for zinc deficiency on peat soils and in coastal saline soils.