 To appreciate the role of women in agriculture, we declared and also observed 15 October as Mahila Kisan Diwas. Two new awards, one for better performing KVK and the other for small and marginal farmer namely, the Pt. Deen Dayal Rashtriya Krishi Vigyan Protsahan Puruskar and Pt. Deen Dayal Antyodaya Krishi Puruskar, respectively, were introduced. With a focus on reaching out to the farmers, the Council adopted 10,700 villages under its ‘Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav’ programme benefitting about 3.5 lakh farmers. In order to take the technologies to different states, the Council convened Regional Committee meetings for effective Centre-State coordination and delivery. We have also fortified our dialogue process with other scientific organizations such as CSIR, ICMR, DST, DRDO, ISRO, IMD, etc. through discussion and by signing MoUs. The members of ICAR family deserve appreciation for their sincere efforts that enabled DARE/ICAR to achieve its mandate effectively. While the challenges are many, the opportunities do exist for way forward. It is time that we become more responsive, proactive and innovative. Partnerships for integration, convergence and synergy are what the ‘Team ICAR’ must continue to stand for, in our endeavor to make Indian agriculture a proud profession of our farmers and a preferred destination for our youth, as we envision doubling of farmers’ income by 2022. I am also happy to record that the ICAR organized different activities to fulfill the objectives of the ‘Swachh Bharat Mission’ programme and is committed to be a proud partner of this national mission. I take this opportunity to also call upon all the members of the ICAR Family to ensure a clean and hygienic environment in their respective institutions and their surroundings, and establish themselves as role models for the others. With promotion of less cash economy, I also would urge all our Institutes to enable digital transactions in letter and spirit. In this endeavor, I also appreciate the efforts of our KVKs to have organized awareness programmes for farmers to practice digital banking. I hope, with strong linkages with developmental agencies and private sectors, we would enhance our collaboration, both nationally and at international levels to make India a global leader in agriculture. As part of global outreach, ICAR is providing requisite assistance in establishing Afghanistan National Agricultural Sciences and Technological University and also Advanced Agricultural Research Centre in Myanmar. A landmark MoU was signed among BRICS Nations to establish a BRICS Research Platform for Agriculture with its Coordinating Centre in India. To further strengthen and mainstream agricultural research through international collaborations, we discussed and finalized work plans with ICRISAT, IRRI, ICARDA, IFPRI, Bioversity International and with some foreign Universities.