 PC 701 performed best among the tested Jhum field preparation for sowing Mixed cropping with millets in jhum field Performance of pearl millet crop in the experimental field Selection of farmers from different districts of Mizoram It was found that majority of the farmers no longer take up millet cultivation (48.57%) while 34.29% had not cultivated millets even in the past. Around 17.14% of the farmers currently cultivate sorghum while none are found cultivating other types of millet. Millet cultivation is and was concentrated 86.96% in jhum fields while some accounts, i.e. 8.70% in permanent farms and 4.34% in plains were also uncovered. It was found that millets were Champhai Lunglei Saitual Serchhip Hnahthial Khawzawl Lawngtlai Mamit Siaha Aizawl Kolasib most commonly planted in mixed cropping system and only 8.70% farmers reported intercropping. The main crops grown in mixed cropping system with millets are rice, maize and ginger. In the plains, it was reported by only one farmer that sorghum was mixed with mustard, pumpkin, brinjal and so on. Millets upon harvesting are normally sundried, de-husked by hand and stored. None of the farmers interviewed, had any knowledge about the nutritional properties of millets and cultivated for the sole reason of consumption. Out of the farmers who had cultivated millets other than sorghum, 100% consumed it by boiling solely for snack purpose or with rice for main food while 25% used it to prepare fermented alcohol in the past. millets. However, for a final and conclusive result, more research work is required in Mizoram. Opinion of Mizo farmers towards millet cultivation in Mizoram A survey was conducted during 2022–23 from all 11 districts of Mizoram with a random sample size of 150 Mizo farmers to collect information about millets in Mizoram. Indian Farming 27 May 2023 It has been a common practice by 100% of present and past sorghum cultivators to consume popped cleaned and dried sorghum grains as a snack. It was also slightly processed by 19.57% of people by mixing with jaggery to make sweet sorghum balls. Traditional practice of millet cultivation as border crop near roadsides and on the periphery of the fields was reported by 47.83% of the millet cultivators. They were also planted as sole crop in contrast to the practices of the traditional jhum system, for easier harvesting as well as a mark of territory due to their lofty heights. Out of the 72 farmers who had cultivated millets in the past stated various reasons for discontinuing their cultivation such as preference of other crops such as rice and popcorn (76.09%), lack of marketing opportunities (19.56%) and unavailability of seeds (4.35%). Prospects of millets cultivation in Mizoram Mizoram is a state inhabited by farmers accustomed to mixed farming under very difficult hilly terrain with the least mechanization options.