 It is native of Malaysia, Polynasia and introduced to India and Sri Lanka from Java. It is grown on a small scale in Coorg, Mysore, Bombay, Patiala, Madras, Punjab and Uttar Pradesh. 85 Citrus lemon Lemon H-Nimbu The fruit in the form of pickle is useful in hypertrophy of the spleen lemon peel is stomachic and carminative. Lemon oil is stimulant and rubefacient, when applied externally. Lemon juice is one of the best remedy of scurvy. It has been successfully employed in acute remedy, dysentery and diarrhoea. An anti-pneumonia factor is said to be present in lemon juice. A straggling bush or small tree, 10–12 feet. high. The wild stalk is a native of north-west India ascending to 4000 feet. Lemon is cultivated in home garden and small size orchard in Uttar Pradesh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu and Mysore. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 330 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 86 Citrus medica Citron H-Bara nimbu The fruits are used mainly for pickling. The juice is refrigerant and astringent. Preserved rind is used as remedy for dysentery. A shrub or small tree about 10 feet high considered to be native of India. Wild citron has been reported from Chittagong, Sitakund hills, Khasi and Garo hills. Citron is now cultivated sparsely through out the warm, moist region of India. 87 Cleistanthus collinus - H- Garari B-Karlajuri The leaves, roots and especially the fruits, act as violent gastro-intestinal irritants. The leaves are abortine facient. The leaves and bark contain saponin and tannin. Active principle present in the leaves is oduvin, a yellowish-white crystaline glucoside. A small deciduous tree distributed from the Deccan peninsula, northwards up to Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. 88 Clerodendrum inermi - H- Lanjai B-Banjai M-Vanajai T-Anjali Tel- Takkulakamu Kan-Kundali Mal-Nirnochi The leaves are mucilaginous, bitter and fragrant, and their medicinal properties resemble those of chiretta.Fresh and dry leaves posses alterative and febrifugal properties. A poultice of the leaves is used to resolve buboes. A liniment useful in rheumatism is obtained by boiling the root in oil. The leaves contain amorphous bitter principle resembling that found in chirayta. A straggling shrub occurring near the coastal region of India and Sri Lanka. 89 Clerodendrum phlomidis - H- Arni G- Arni M- Arni T-Takkari Tel- Takkolamu Kan-Taggi Mal-Tirrutali Root is aromatic and astringent and decoction of it is used as a demulcent in gonorrhoea. It is also used as a bitter tonic. The juice of leaves is useful as an alterative. A large shrub occuring in many parts of India. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 331 Sl. No.