 The second measure of food security of the households was monthly per capita food expenditure, which is the total expenditure on food (both at home and outside the home) divided by a household size per month. This tool has been shown to be an excellent measure of food accessibility (Jones et al., 2013; Ogundari, 2017). 2.4.2 The heteroskedastic linear regression. The heteroskedastic linear regression via the Maximum Likelihood Estimation was used to analyse the factors that influence the extent of UA participation among households. The extent of UA was the dependent variable in Model 1 (refer to Table 1 for details). The model is used primarily when the error variances are not consistent across all the observations (heteroskedasticity in the model). In such an instance, the use of Ordinary Least Square (OLS) regression to estimate the variables that influence the extent of UA will remain unbiased but inefficient. The heteroskedastic linear regression model can be modelled as: yi ¼ MiN þ εi; σ2 i ¼ expðziβÞ (1) where yi; i 5 1,. . ., j, is the dependent variable, thus natural log of the intensity of urban agriculture participation; Mi ¼ ðM1i; M2i; :::; MkiÞ are the k explanatory variables for Variable Description Measurement Model 1 Model 2 Supporting references Nutritious food Urban agriculture promotes the consumption of nutritious food Interval scale, from 1 5 strongly, disagree to 5 5 strongly agree þ Othman et al. (2019) Extension contact Contact with extension officers 1 5 Yes, 0 5 No þ Issahaku and Abdulai (2019) Contract Contract with buyers 1 5 Yes, 0 5 No  Mishra et al. (2018) Distance Distance from farm to the nearest market Number of minutes by walk þ Ayerakwa et al. (2020) Note(s): Model 1 is intensity of urban agriculture participation; Model 2 is the factors influencing food security, and the effect of the intensity of participation on food security. The superscripts of a and b represent the literature supporting variables used in each model Source(s): Authors’ compilation based on field data and literature review, 2019 Table 1. Extent of urban agriculture and food security 443 modelling the mean function; and zi ¼ ðz1i; z2i; :::; zjiÞ are the j variables in modelling the variance function. N’s are unknown variables in the mean function and β’s are unknown variables in the variance function. εi s’ are the error terms which are self-determining and identically distributed with mean 0 and variance σ2 i. Empirically, heteroskedastic linear regression model is expressed as: yi ¼ M0 þ M1N1 þ M2N2 þ M3N3 þ ::: þ ei (2) where yi is the natural log of the intensity of urban agriculture participation, Mi5 (M1, M2, M3,. . .Mk) are the independent variables explained in Table 1 under model 1, Ni 5 (N1, N2, N3,. . .Nj) models the variance function and e is the error term. 2.4.3 Seemingly Unrelated Regression (SUR) model.