com July–August 2021 53 A K Verma*, Gopal Carpenter, P S Gurjar, Maneesh Mishra and S Rajan New mango harvester for reducing drudgery and harvesting losses Mango is generally harvested by shaking and beating of branches which causes cracking and bruising of fruits, which results in about 8-10% losses at farm level. ICAR-CISH, Lucknow has developed a light-weight, user friendly mango harvester for reducing drudgery and harvesting losses. Fruit loss was observed to be 40% less with new harvester as compared with the old metallic harvester. Technology M ango is one of the most important fruit crops of our country and is extremely popular among masses. India is the largest producer of mango in the world accounting for 45.10% of global production. In India, Uttar Pradesh is the leading producer of mango accounting for 23.3% of country's total production. Dashehari is a leading commercial variety of Uttar Pradesh grown over sizeable area. However, farmers generally do not follow appropriate harvesting practices. Based on a survey conducted for estimation of post-harvest losses for Dashehari mango in Uttar Pradesh under AICRP (All India Coordinated Research Project) on fruits, it was revealed that 44% of the farmers irrigate the field prior to harvesting of fruits, through shaking the tree and striking the fruits with laggi (a harvesting tool with a hook on a bamboo pole), while 50% of the farmers harvest fruits by the same method without irrigating the field. While only 6% orchardists used different mango harvesters having a nylon fruit collecting net. The harvesting by shaking the tree and using laggi in an unirrigated field results in cracking of 8.44 to 9.45% of the harvested fruits due to impact sustained during the falling of the fruits on branches and hard ground, making them unfit for marketing. Due to shaking, some fruits get latent injuries during harvesting that result in rotting of fruits later during transport and marketing chain. As observed, the situation in irrigated fields was slightly better than unirrigated fields as cracking was apparently less i.e. 6.35-6.5% of the harvested fruits. However, only 1.4 to 1.6% of the fruits got cracked during harvesting with metallic pole harvester with a fruit collecting net designed and developed by ICAR-CISH, Lucknow earlier. Under Farmer FIRST Project (ICAR), several focused group discussions and farmer-scientist meetings were conducted for implementation of good agricultural practices (GAP) in mango orchards. The following reasons were attributed by mango farmers for less adoption (only 6% orchardists) of the metallic mango harvester: yy Heavy weight of harvester involves more drudgery in the harvesting operation. yy Blades mounted on the harvester for cutting of fruit pedicels are prone to rusting and frequently become blunt. yy It requires more time and labour for harvesting of fruits.