 Veneer grafting Veneer grafting has largely replaced inarching in many parts of the country due to its greater efficiency. Several factors, such as the age and thickness of the scion, the time of grafting, and the defoliation period of the scion stick, all play a role in determining grafting success. This method works best with rootstocks that are at least a year old. However, if the stock reaches a suitable thickness (about 1 cm) before a year, it can be used as rootstock. A scion stick that is 4-6 months old has a better chance of success. The scion sticks are pre-defoliated in order to activate the axillary and apical buds. At a height of about 20 cm, a downward and inward 3-4 cm long cut is made in the smooth area of the rootstock. A small shorter cut is made at the base of the cut to intersect the first and remove the piece of wood and bark. To match the stock cuts, the scion stick is given a long slanting cut on one side and a small short cut on the other. The scion is inserted into the stock in such a way that the cambium layers are on the longer side. The graft union is then wrapped in a 1.5 cm wide, 200-gauge polyethylene strip. The rootstock should be clipped in stages after the scion has been green for more than 10 days. Veneer grafting is advantageous because the graft can be prepared from scion sticks found in remote locations. Stone (Epicotyl) grafting Epicotyl grafting is a fast method of mango propagation that has a success rate of 75-80%. As rootstock, newly sprouted mango stones are used in this technique. The stones are planted on raised beds in June and July. The beds should be prepared by combining soil and FYM in a 2:1 ratio. Seedlings with tender stems and coppery leaves are lifted with stones after germination. After washing the soil, the roots and stones are dipped in a 0.1% Carbendazim solution for 5 min. Seedling stems are headed back, leaving a 6-8 cm long stem. A 4-6 cm longitudinal cut is made through the centre of the stem. On the lower part of the scion stick, a wedge-shaped cut is made starting on both sides. The scion stick should be at least 4-5 months old and 10-15 cm long, with plump terminal buds. The scion stick is then inserted into the seedling cleft and secured with polyethylene strips. After that, the grafts are planted in polyethylene bags containing potting mixture. The bags are kept in the shade to avoid heavy rain. Around 15-20 days after grafting, the scion begins to sprout. During this time, removal of any sprouts on the rootstock below the graft union should be taken care. July is the best month for stone grafting. The benefits of stone grafting include high success rates in areas with mild climates and high humidity, rootstock that is graftable in a short period of time, and the method being inexpensive and simple. Adverse climatic conditions significantly reduce grafting success rates.