 Crop diversity is projected to be higher in states with better total- road infrastructure, especially rural roads. The overall road length or infrastructure data was obtained from the CMIE database. g. Gross state domestic product per person (lngsdp) Crop diversiﬁcation may necessitate additional investments in land, seeds, infrastruc- ture, and other resources. Higher investment necessitates higher earnings. Many studies took agricultural income as a determinant factor. This study revealed that agricultural earnings have a positive impact on diversity [34–36]. One could counter that crop diversity is well predicted by per –capita, gross-state-domestic products. Because crop diversity occasionally depends more on demand than on availability. So, an increase in the per- capita, gross-state-domestic products could act as a catalyst for enhancing the demand for high-valued produce of Indian farmers. We converted the per-capita, gross-state-domestic products into a logarithmic form to normalize the data, i.e., lngsdp = ln(gsdp) where, gsdp stands for gross-state-domestic products per person. We used the CMIE database to obtain the per-person, gross-state-domestic-product data. h. Credit intensity (crint) Credit always enhances the investment and risk-taking ability of farmers. For crop diversiﬁcation, farmers need higher and steadier investment. Higher levels of agricul- tural credit may enhance farmers’ risk-taking abilities, which could accelerate the crop- diversiﬁcation process. It should be taken as the disbursement of lending money based on per hectare of cultivated land to better quantify the effect of agriculture. As a result, credit intensity (crint) was deﬁned as agricultural credit expressed in rupees per hectare of gross cropped area (GCA), i.e., crint = Agricultural Credit Gross Cropped Area (GCA) Credit intensity can have a positive or negative impact on agricultural-crop diversity. If agricultural credit is available, farmers may shift from lower-value crops to higher-value crops. Therefore, it may enhance the structural change of the cropping pattern [26,27]. However, it is true that agricultural credit is not the sole factor for structural changes. Farm ﬁnancing may not increase crop diversity if the existing cropping system or pattern is more proﬁtable for farmers, or if infrastructure, such as marketing facilities, roads, is underdeveloped. It may be put to good use in the existing farming system, or it could be diverted to non-farm purposes. We also used the CMIE database to obtain agricultural- credit data. i. Urban population (lnupop) The most important element driving crop diversiﬁcation, (i.e., the growth of high-value crops) away from traditional crops is urbanization [7]. The increasing trend of urbanization plays a crucial role in the cultivation of commercial crops [34]. Rural-to-urban migration always happens because of better job opportunities and higher income.