 Trademark for the technologies CAGEGROW®, CIFRI GI CAGE®, CIFRI PEN HDPE® and CIFLIN®, were registered. Mechanization and energy management: Machines and suitable methods were developed to mechanize different labour intensive farm operations. The newly developed machines included the following: multi-crop thresher for hill farming, which is lightweight for transportation, and portable for easy assemble and dismantle; garlic weeder for raised bed cultivation; hydraulically operated two-row pigeon pea harvester; cassava harvester cum lifter; fertilizer applicator for top dressing; cotton stalk puller; model farm machinery package for different agro-climatic zones of India; pneumatic precision planter; automated control system for tractor implements; package of machinery for banana crop; auger plough for green manuring and straw incorporation; irrigation channel former; vegetable transplanter for cell feed nursery; sprayer to control whitefly in cotton crop; intra-cum-inter row weeder for orchards; ginger harvester-cum-elevator; low heat grinding machine; alert system for chaff cutters; finger millet thresher; improvement of visibility of tractor cabin for operators. Some animal draught machines are found DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 6 OVERVIEW more economical and suitable to the hilly terrain such as weeder-cum-fertilizer applicator; multi-crop planter for intercropping; and a package of bullock drawn implements comprising MB plough, stubble collector, seed drill, fertilizer applicator-cum-ridger and maize dehusker-cum-sheller etc. Farmers reported that they could save 15–20% time of sowing and 25–30% labour cost in weeding as compared to traditional practice. A postural support system with plastic belts and plastic mould system was developed, which gives back support and transfers some of the load on back to legs of the worker reducing discomfort. Annular core biochar reactor with a capacity of 50 litre was developed. Micro algae harvesting system having harvesting efficiency of 93% was developed. The Water Balance Simulation Model (WBSM) was developed to simulate the performance of rainwater harvesting (RWH) system under different climatic regions. The simulation model analyzes the combination of different roof sizes, demand and sizes of tank for planning, design and implementation of RWH system in different agro-climatic regions. Post-harvest management and value addition: A rice flaking machine (capacity 80 kg/h), continuous makhana seed washer (120 kg makhana seeds/hour), dried chillies destalking machine (6.5–7 kg/h), and to assure the phytosanitary requirement for export (especially Drosophila suzukii) of Indian grapes, automated commercial fumigation chamber for treatment of grapes with SO2 and CO2 (1.50 tonnes grapes/batch) was designed, fabricated and established at M/s Sahyadri Farmers Producer Company Limited, A/P Mohadi, Nashik (Maharashtra).