 Field sanitary practices: The pathogen produces perithecia on crop residues. Weeds serve as connecting bridges between two growing seasons and also source of primary inoculum. Therefore, clean cultivation practices should be adopted to break the continuity of life cycle of the pathogen. Deep ploughing: Deep ploughing can be implemented to reduce the primary source of inoculum by burying crop residues into deeper soil layer. Eradication of weed hosts: Elimination of certain weed hosts like Brachiaria spp., Cenchrus spp., Chloris spp., Digitaria spp., Echinochloa spp., Eleusine indica and Lolium spp. will be helpful for reducing primary inoculum load. Crop rotation: Crop rotation with non-grass crops like soybean, potato, jute cultivation could be followed. Alternate date of Planting: Planting should be done in such a way that early flowering and heading of crops will not coincide with the favourable weather of wheat blast pathogen infection. Breeding for host resistance: Because of high variability and extensive host range, development of resistant cultivar is vital. Gene deployment can be done to encounter the gene flow within the population of different pathotypes. Chemical treatment: Seed treatment and spraying of chemicals combining strobilurins and triazole fungicides from flowering to heading stage will give better results. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: 13krishnaag@gmail.com Indian Farming January 2022 11 Sugarcane Jaggery: An alternative of sugar for healthy living Rajan Bhatt*, Lenika Kashyap and Anuradha PAU-Regional Research Station, Kapurthala, Punjab 144 602 India is the world’s largest sugar and sugarcane producer. More than 70% of global production is done in India, with 53% being processed into white sugar, 36% into jaggery and khandsari, 3% for chewing as cane juice, and 8% as seed cane. India is world’s leading jaggery producer and user. Sugarcane jaggery, often called “gur” is a natural, traditional, and nutritious sweetener made by concentrating sugarcane juice. It is a non-centrifugal, unprocessed sugar that contains all of the minerals and vitamins found in sugarcane juice. Jaggery is made by condensing sugarcane juice and it comes in solid blocks and granulated form. Granulated jaggery is becoming popular due to its ease of handling, packaging and storage. Although the methods for converting sugarcane and producing sugar, gur and khandsari varies, the creation of these consumable end products adds a significant amount of value. Millions of individuals will be able to find work as a result of this. Jaggery and khandsari have resisted competition while also addressing ethnic desires and maintaining farmers’ interests. Jaggery is traditionally made on the farm by cane producers. With the arrival of new entrepreneurs that embarked into jaggery manufacturing as a pure business by purchasing cane from cane growers, this tendency has shifted.