 Bhringraj: It is also known as Eclipta alba, a herbaceous plant commonly found in India, China, and Southeast Asia. It has been used for centuries in traditional medicine to treat a variety of ailments. Ecliptine is main active constituent and whole panchang (leaf, stem, root, fruit, bark) is medicinally valuable. Hair oil is a very famous product of this weed and powder prepared from this plant is also available in market. It has been recognized beneficial for hair health, liver support, anti- inflammatory, digestive aid, immune system support, skin health and anti-aging. Bhumi Amla: Scientifically known as Phyllanthus niruri, this is a small herbaceous plant that is widely distributed in tropical and subtropical regions around the world. It is commonly found in India, Southeast Asia, and the Amazon rainforest. The plant typically grows up to 50 cm in height and has small green leaves. It produces small, round, yellowish-green fruits. The entire plant, including the leaves, stems, roots, and fruits, is used for medicinal purposes. Leaves and stem are rich source of lignans, flavonoids, alkaloids, and tannins. The plants have the vital medicinal properties such as antiviral, antioxidant, diuretic properties, anti-inflammatory, antidiabetic, anti- urolithiatic and is also good for liver. Ardusa: Scientifically known as Adhatoda vasica, this medicinal plant holds significant importance in traditional systems of medicine, particularly in Ayurveda. It is native to the Indian subcontinent and can be found in various parts of Southeast Asia. It has large, lance-shaped leaves that are deep green and smooth. The flowers of Adhatoda vasica are white or purple in colour and have a tubular shape. Active constituents present in this plant are vasicine, vasicinone, vasicol and adhatodine. Leaves are mainly used as medication for the preparation of syrup, decoction, tablets and powder which have been proved effective in respiratory disorders, bronchial asthma, cough and cold, anti-inflammatory and analgesic, antimicrobial activity and skin disorders. Rosary pea (scientifically known as Abrus precatorius): It is a flowering plant native to tropical regions of Africa, Asia, and Australia. It is commonly found in countries such as India, Thailand and the Philippines. In Gujarat, it is commonly known as Chanothi. While the rosary pea is aesthetically appealing, it is important to note that it is highly toxic. The seeds of the rosary pea contain a potent toxin called abrin, which is considered one of the most poisonous plant toxins. Leaves are used in the preparation of paste and decoction to be used in the treatments of mouth ulcers, wound healing and skin disorders. Brahmi: It is also known as Bacopa monnieri, is a herbaceous plant commonly found in India and Southeast Asia. It has been used for centuries in traditional medicine to treat a variety of diseases. This weed contains important active constituents such as bacoside-A and bacoside-B.