 Private investment to promote horticultural crops, particularly long-term tree fruits and pro-poor agricultural value chain with participation of small holder famers are still very negligible. Nutritionally rich horticultural crops, farmer-friendly MSP and procurement policy, land use planning including land capability and productivity will create an enabling environment for enhancing farmers income. Horticulture is slowly emerging as the driving force in boosting farm economy. Post-harvest technological R&D needs close linkage in food processing and export of fruits and vegetables. A policy shift towards integration of PHM activities in Horticulture sector, integration of processing varieties of horticulture crops and export of processed fruits & vegetables need more attention. CONCLUSION In the age of AI, Indian Horticulture cannot be a passive player. Fruits and vegetables are rich source of nutritive value, and India having climatic advantage of almost all types (tropical, sub-tropical, temperate fruits, coastal, arid etc.) of eco-system and rich natural resource is an ideal country for adopting advance technologies. Further, with the digital technology, knowledge products are available in wide range of crops, HVCs in particular. Also, for fruits, several horticulture technology in digital sector to be used in neighbouring countries can also be licensed with negotiable policy support. Some requirement on skill development for management of digital horticulture in the country is also needed. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Dilip Ghosh (Director), ICAR-Central Citrus Research Institute, Nagpur, Maharashtra 440 033. *Corresponding author: director. ccri@icar.gov.in November–December 2024 87 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at https://epubs.icar.org.in/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Already have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions. Author Guidelines Title of the article: Catchy, short and attractive; Compel the readers to read the article; Time-oriented; Serve the purpose of audience – means it should be audience-oriented, and News-oriented. Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader.