 The male yaks could carry a load up to 35% of the live body weight (135 kg) and are able to walk 14 km, with a speed of 4-6 km/h. The ambient temperature and percentage of load carried showed negative impact on work physiology of yak. ❑ Launch of multi-purpose green fishing vessel, FV Sagar Harita ICAR-CIFT, Kochi launched the 19.75 m multi-purpose energy efficient fishing vessel, FV Sagar Harita on 18 April 2016. The vessel is built under the project “Green Fishing Systems for the Tropical Seas” funded by National Agricultural Science Fund (ICAR- NASF). The vessel has array of novel features such as hull is made of marine grade steel, and cabin and wheel house are made of FRP to reduce weight, improve carrying capacity and speed. It is powered by 400 hp main engine and has 400 watt solar powered emergency lighting, acoustic trawl telemetry system with under-water sensor, fishing gear handling equipment’s (such as split trawl winch, long line setter and hauler and gillnet hauler) and two RSW (0 to -10oC) tanks of one ton capacity each. Light weight bullock cart of 800 kg payloads for three hours on the tar road comfortably with a fatigue score of 13. Under plain kachha road, the average draft increased from 92.1 to 324.4 N and the average speed decreased from 3.60 to 2.69 km/h when pay load increased to 800 kg. The small size bullocks could sustain pulling 800 kg payloads for three hours on the tar road comfortably with a fatigue score of 14. Plastic mulch for potato cultivation under drip irrigation Experimental trials were conducted to study the effect of plastic mulching duration and mulch colour on soil temperature, growth parameters and yield parameters of potato (variety: kufri badhsha) under drip irrigation. The duration of the plastic mulching varied from zero to the entire duration of the crop. Silver and black colour plastic films (0.03 mm thick) were used in the study. Plastic mulch films were removed after 60, 70 and 90 d (till the end of crop duration). Growth parameters such as plant height (51.6 cm), number of stem per plant (5.4), stem girth (6.6 mm) and SPAD value (50.3) were higher under the black mulch followed by silver mulch in comparison to no mulch conditions. Water use efficiency (WUE) was found highest under black plastic mulch removed after 10. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition MACHINES/ EQUIPMENT DEVELOPED Indigenous Pilot Plant for Production of Protein Isolates from De-oiled Cakes ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana has designed an indigenous pilot plant for production of protein isolates from groundnut de-oiled cake. The capacity of the pilot plant is 40 kg of raw material/day. Isolates produced from this plant contained more than 90% protein. The de-oiled cake (DOC) left after oil extraction from major oilseeds viz. soybean, groundnut, mustard and sunflower is about 10 million tonnes (soy meal: 4 MT, groundnut cake: 3 MT, mustard: 2 MT, sunflower cake: 1 MT).