 It was reported that more than 500 species from Arunachal Pradesh, 256 from Assam, 526 from Nagaland, 194 from Tripura, 423 from Sikkim and 834 species from Meghalaya possess medicinal value and these plants have been used by the tribal community of this region for the time immemorial. Organic production technologies ICAR Research Complex for NEH Region, Umiam and especially its Sikkim Regional Centre have developed research-based technological options for climate resilient mountain horticulture production systems encompassing organic production techniques of mandarin, kiwifruit, pear, guava, chayote, cherry pepper, okra, pea, ginger and turmeric, etc. Organic production technology of 14 high value vegetables viz., broccoli, cauliflower, cabbage, coriander, lettuce, fenugreek, spinach, leafy mustard, pakchoi, garlic, pea, beetroot, carrot, and radish under low-cost plastic tunnels have been standardized for year- round production in various cropping sequences. Organic production technology for tomato, capsicum, cucumber, gourds, under low-cost plastic shelters during summer and rainy season and off-season vegetable production techniques in low-cost greenhouse for high priced vegetables viz., broccoli, tomato, cucumber and capsicum have also been standardized. These technology packages have already been shared with all the Departments of Agriculture and Horticulture of all the states in the Northeast. Soil acidity is common in the NE as a result of high rainfall and leaching of bases from the surface layer of soils. The management of acid soils can be solved either by addition of lime to counteract the abnormality of such soils or by manipulating agricultural practices to obtain the optimum crop production under the stress of soil acidity. Under organic farming, limited options are available to meet the nutrient requirement. The sources are recycling of organic matter, enrichment of compost, vermicomposting, animal manures, urine, farmyard manure, litter composting, use of botanicals, green manuring, etc. Use of biofertilizers like Azolla, Azospirillum, Azotobacter, Rhizobium culture, phosphorus and potash solubilizing bacteria, in combination may also enhance soil fertility. Different types of cakes viz., neem cake, karanj cake, etc., may also enhance soil fertility in organic production. Organic insect pest and disease management technologies include identification of tolerant varieties and adjusting sowing dates of major crops to minimize insect pests and diseases. Different locally available botanicals, bio-control agents (entomopathogenic fungi, Bacillus thuringiensis products, Metarhizium spp., Beauveria spp., NPV, etc.), oil-based formulations, and neem formulations, traps and lures, nematicides etc. are recommended against insect pests. Effective mechanical and cultural methods for management of major insect pests are also available.