 It is also important that India should focus on providing adequate funds to those states which are vulnerable to the various climate change induced risks, which adversely affect the agrarian prospects of the individual states as well as the livelihoods of the farmers especially in the North-Eastern states. 5. Conclusion The essence of the Gandhian approach was treating Nature as a friend and benefactor of humanity. The person at a century ago had vision of sustainability and environmental concerns. On the analysis of basic problems of Indian economy, it is observed that still the pattern of unequal distribution of income, unemployment, poverty, inequality exist as they were when Gandhiji used to advocate the spinning of wheel as a solution for all the problems. His attention on the Khadi and village industries, therefore, was not a temporary measure, but a lasting solution to the root problems of India’s unemployment and poverty. There is no doubt that we need to safeguard our planet from pollution and adverse effects of climate change through adoption of sustainable approaches. We need to follow principles of Bapu as Satyagrah, Sarvodya, Swaraj and Swadeshi. The ICAR, along with its Institutes and universities is engaged in research and development of natural resource conservation and environmental protection since its inception with substantial positive impacts on rural livelihood and environment. Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 107 Chapter 10 Small Agri-Enterprises and Waste Management: Gandhian Thoughts CR Mehta, S Gangil, R Naik and SK Giri “It is quite strong to say I don’t believe in machinery. This spinning wheel is a beautiful piece of machinery. How can I be against machinery? This body itself is the most delicate machinery”. MK Gandhi 1. Introduction Increase in agricultural production has simultaneously resulted in the generation of large quantities of agricultural crop residues, livestock waste and other agro-industrial by-products. A significant increase in global agricultural wastes production is expected if the developing countries continue intensification of farming systems. This has opened up ample scope for the establishment of rural entrepreneurship based on utilization of various agro-wastes viz. residues from the growing and processing of raw agricultural products such as crops, fruits, vegetables, meat, poultry, and dairy products. It is estimated that about 350 million tonnes (Mt) of agro-based organic waste is produced in India every year (Harshwardhan and Upadhyay 2017). Converting some of the waste materials into valuable products or energy could be an efficient way of waste management. People in rural India have limited access to energy.