 Initially up to 6 months, there were no visible symptoms of the damage but gradual increase in insect population was recorded. Bioagent population increased from negligible to 125.5 adults per meter square in 11 months and started to decline in due course with the decrease in population density of the weed. With the increase of bioagent population 50, 80 and 100%, control of S. molesta was achieved by 8, 11 and 18 months, respectively. The insect kills the weed by feeding on terminal buds and new growth while its larvae tunnel through buds and rhizomes. Killing of terminal buds checks the regrowth of the weed. LCMS/MS Detection of herbicide residues in LCMS/MS UASD AMF consortium (native) Control Multi-residue analysis method for determination of herbicide residues: A multi-residue analysis method was developed by the ICAR-DWR, Jabalpur for simultaneous determination of 30 herbicides in agricultural commodities using LC-MS/MS. Similarly, a multi-residue analysis method using TLC with the detection limit of <0.01 µg/g was also developed for Simultaneous detection of six herbicides by TLC Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 100 Integrated Farming System model for enhancing system productivity in transitional plain of Luni Basin: An integrated farming system model for enhancing productivity and profitability in transitional plain of Pali was developed for 1 ha area also compared with the conventional farming system. Integrated farming system comprising 70% area for crop production, 27% area for fruit and vegetable production and 3% area for livestock in which goat unit comprising 5 females and 1 male were taken. Boundary plantation with Ailanthus excelas (Ardu) was done. In crop production component, sorghum, cluster-bean, greengram in kharif, wheat, mustard, cumin in rabi; fodder sorghum, fodder pearl millet and summer greengram were taken during summer in integrated farming system and in conventional farming system sorghum, cluster-bean, greengram in kharif, wheat, mustard and cumin in rabi; season. Fruits and vegetable in horticulture component were accommodated in 27% area. Pomegranate, guava and ber, and within row space papaya were taken as fruit and in between rows of fruits lady finger, brinjal, bottle guard in kharif; onion, garlic, carrot in rabi, ladyfinger, water melon and muskmelon in summer were taken. The Integrated farming system model was found nearly three times more beneficial than conventional farming system. HORTICULTURE Crop Production Fruit crops Vertical expansion of nursery under protected conditions using soilless rooting medium: An efficient technology for multiplication of clonal rootstock (M-9, MM-106, MM-111, P-22, B-9, M-27) of apple under greenhouse conditions was standardized. The technique involves wounding/incision on branches with diameter of 5 mm at 30 cm above ground level using sharp knife/ blade to remove the bark followed by application of 2,500 ppm IBA as rooting hormone.