 This variety can help to increase the farm income of sugarcane growers and ultimately sugar industry of the state. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: rajansoils@pau.edu ICAR New Portals The Council has created the following portals for effective governance by utilizing the information and communication technology. ICAR Data Centre and Unified Communication portals to secure institute information and information transmission.  ICAR-Enterprise resource planning (ERP) System to this manage the human resource in information of the council including pay roll, finance and budgeting.  KVK Knowledge Network Portal (http://kvk.icar.gov.in) to share basic information and facilities of KVKs with contingency plans, demonstration schedule, and advisories.  Management System for Post-Graduate Education (MSPGE) enabling academic and e-learning modules while also being a repository of academic records  E-Samvad, an online interface of the Council to answer citizens queries.  KRISHI –A knowledge repository portal of digital information pertaining to research experiments, outputs, publications, etc.  E-Krishi Manch, a dedicated portal for farmer-scientist interaction. Indian Farming 35 May 2023 System of finger millet intensification Saikat Biswas* and Rupa Das Ramakrishna Mission Vivekananda Educational and Research Institute, Morabadi, Ranchi, Jharkhand 834 008 Finger millet can tolerate harsh conditions and provides higher nutritional cereal than rice and wheat. It can grow in areas having water scarcity or in regions with a certain risk of failure of conventional crops. Finger millet cultivation has the potential to bridge the demand and supply of food grains in resource-poor areas and therefore, its production needs to be increased by various means such as the system of finger millet intensification (SFMI). SFMI follows the principles of system of rice intensification (SRI) and is traditionally practiced with different names like Guli ragi method in Karnataka. Although the research is very less in this regard, this method has already proved its potential to ensure vigorous growth and sustainable yield utilizing less/cost-effective resources. Still, its adoption by farmers is poor and needs strong policy, subsidies and other support from public, private organizations as well as strong extension services for the technology dissemination. Keywords: Finger millet, Guli ragi, Sustainable yield, System of finger millet intensification F INGER millet (Eleusine coracana L.) or ragi is an important cereal crop grown in low-rainfall, resource poor conditions as food for poor people. India is a major producer of this crop. Finger millet is nutritionally richer than the common cereal crops like rice, wheat etc. This crop can grow in wide range of agro-climatic conditions exhibiting highest productivity among other millets.