 Rao raised the following issues: ● Second Green Revolution must include rainfed agriculture through enhancement of the productivity and by minimizing the post-harvest losses. ● Diversify in secondary agriculture to accommodate the rural population profitably. Still 30% of the population is below poverty line. ● Maintenance of quality of soil, water and air in the agro-ecosystem must be ensured. ● Inclusion of WTO related issues, IPR, Codex standards etc in the course-curricula and involvement of the VCs’ and Deans in active teaching. ● Need to review the land grant model which, in USA has diversified. He lamented the narrow approach of excluding non-agricultural streams in the student enrolment. While the world is witnessing consolidation of universities and companies, we witness increased fragmentation of AUs into Horticulture, Animal and Veterinary sciences etc. Dr C. Devakumar, Assistant Director General (Education Planning & Development), ICAR in his vote of thanks hailed Hyderabad as the agriculture knowledge city and appreciated the ICAR–AU axis practised in the city. 8 The Chairman highlighted the importance of the role of achieving high standards of education and improving the productivity of Universities. After a round of introduction, the DDG (Edn) called for increased efforts in enhancing the quality of students coming out, especially personality traits, communication skills and stakeholder needs. Dr P.K. Joshi, Director, NAARM also highlighted the need to impart business management traits to students. He also recommended that the Deans alongwith senior officials from Education Division of ICAR may be enabled to visit some good Universities in USA to appraise them with the latest teaching systems. He also proposed higher education management modules for Deans. The Deans of different Universities expressed their difficulties and also made some suggestions. Some of these are listed below: 1. Faculty shortage is rampant. Recruitments or some alternate innovative methods of sharing the teaching is necessary. 2. Most faculty members need exposure to other universities in India or abroad. 3. Faculty training programmes should be organized. 4. The public awareness of opportunities in higher agricultural education should be increased and also to the school students at IX–XII standards. 5. The employment opportunities in agricultural stream are much brighter than other streams. But other streams such as medicine have created status symbol which we need to capture vigorously, considering the role of agriculture in the economy of the country. INTERACTIVE SESSION – I (25 June 2010 at 11:30 am to 1:30 pm) Themes : Course-curricula and needed revisions suiting to changing demands of the job market, entrepreneurship skills and agricultural development. Chairman : Dr S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR Rapporteurs : Dr Viraktamath, Director, DRR, Hyderabad Dr H.S. Gaur, Dean, IARI, New Delhi 9 6.