org/news/supporting-agrifood-systems TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 55 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 56 A common service layer has been depicted in the figure below: (Source: https://www.onem2m.org/) Figure 40: oneM2M Architecture Deployment of loT Applications using oneM2M Standards based Common Service Layer The oneM2M compliant field domain application on the Gateways would send the data to the oneM2M based Common Service Platform. The data consuming applications for the various domains hosted on the cloud would be collecting the data from the Common Service Layer Platform received from the respective sensors in a secured manner for visualization, analysis or for taking some actions. This architecture ensures that only authorized and authenticated devices and applications are able to communicate. It also makes it possible to share the data among divergent applications without the need for additional layer of software. The Common Service Layer mentioned here is a horizontal layer of functions commonly needed across different market segments / not segment-specific. This is similar to generic versus use case-specific computer/OS in early times of computers. It would enable the industry to develop standard based applications which would reduce the development, test and deployment lifecycles. By deploying the Standards Compliant Common Service Layer Platform, M2M Service Providers can offer wide range of services developed by the industry. It can also play a pivotal role in the Smart City Projects by easing the development efforts of the application providers offering solutions for smart city project. Major benefits of oneM2M Standards Following are the major benefits of oneM2M Standards: Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report A common service layer has been depicted in the figure below: Information Can Flow Across Silos Smart ( Smart Smart a ee r Emergency : mart Transportation Infrastructure — Infrastructure } Smart Transportation Services Emergency Services 2 2 nu = ° & o = = 2 £ Information Flow Information Flow XN (Source: https://www.onem2m.org/) Figure 40: oneM2M Architecture Deployment of loT Applications using oneM2M Standards based Common Service Layer The oneM2M compliant field domain application on the Gateways would send the data to the oneM2M based Common Service Platform. The data consuming applications for the various domains hosted on the cloud would be collecting the data from the Common Service Layer Platform received from the respective sensors in a secured manner for visualization, analysis or for taking some actions. This architecture ensures that only authorized and authenticated devices and applications are able to communicate. It also makes it possible to share the data among divergent applications without the need for additional layer of software.