 Presently, bio-ethanol in India is mainly produced from C-heavy molasses, a by-product of the sugar industry. Ethanol derived from sugarcane molasses emerged as a major potential substitute component for gasoline and is being presently being blended up to 10% in Petrol under Ethanol Blended Petrol (EBP) Programme run by Government of India. National Policy on Biofuels-2018 allowed production of ethanol from damaged food grains, B-Heavy molasses, sugarcane juice and surplus food grains which is expected to augment the ethanol supplies further. The production of ethanol from any lignocellulosic biomass generally involves four steps – feedstock pre-treatment, enzymatic saccharification, fermentation and ethanol recovery. One kg of rice straw contains roughly 400 g of cellulose which is theoretically enough for producing 250 to 300 ml ethanol. There is another thermo-chemical route for ethanol production from crop residues wherein the biomass is gasified and converted to syngas and then to ethanol using chemical processes. Presently, there are more than 7-8 commercial projects worldwide which have been set up on 2G Ethanol technology. The details of few of the commercial projects is given in the Table: There are two showcased technologies at demonstration scale available in India. These are explained below: a) DBT-ICT technology: The Institute of Chemical Technology (ICT), Mumbai has developed India’s first home grown technology to convert biomass to ethanol with funding from Department of Biotechnology. The demo plant of 10 tonne/day from Biomass to ethanol based on ammonia and acid Alcohol Production from Paddy Straw (Lignocellulosic Biomass) 30 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options process followed by enzyme hydrolysis has been developed and installed at Kashipur, Uttarakhand. b) Praj technology: A demonstration project of 12 tonne per day capacity has been set up by M/s Praj Industries in Pune. The project was set up in 2017 and has been running since then. Oil PSUs are in the process of setting up twelve 2G Ethanol project in the Country with an approximate investment of ` 10,000 crore. One such project will be set up by Hindustan Petroleum Corporation Ltd. in Bathinda, Punjab for which foundation stone was laid in December, 2016. Foundation stone for Bio refinery in Numaligarh, Assam has been laid by on 09.02.2019. It is estimated that one 100 kl per day bio-refinery will require around ` 800-1,000 crore of capital investment. A typical 100 kl per day will consume around 0.15 million tonnes of biomass per annum and will produce around 300 lakh litres of ethanol per annum. Table 11.