 The salient features of the sleeping bags are: • inner layer of 100% cotton for better comfort and to avoid static charge generation; • high abrasive resistant, light weight outer layer of Polyester fabric; • anti-bacterial inner cotton layer to avoid odour generation due to sweating; and • sleeping bag has pocket to place mosquito repellent pouch as well. This technology was released during 92nd Foundation Day and Award Ceremony of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) held on 16 July 2020. Agro-residue reinforced natural rubber garden pots: ICAR-CIRCOT developed technologies for efficient utilization of agro-residues to develop innovative sustainable and biodegradable composites. The present product was developed as an alternative to conventional clay and plastic pots. Manufacturing technique involves use of different agro residues for reinforcing natural rubber to develop an innovative rubberized composite. The composite is prepared by minimum fan diameter of 490 mm. The trash fan should generate an air volume of 4,800 m3/h and run at a pressure of 363 mm wgp. The minimum fan tip speed of 4,192 m/min, i.e. about 3,000 rpm should be maintained. The minimum air velocity through 254 mm ducting should be more than 17 m/s. The 1D-3D cyclone with diameter of 815 mm and height of 2,445 mm needs to be employed to separate out air and trash passing through the trash fan with a pressure drop of 360 mm wgp. The compactor enables the volume reduction and cost effective disposal of gin trash after treatment. The screw conveyor of compactor should have pitch and diameter of 320 mm and should run at a speed of 72 rpm. With this protocol the developed system successfully attained the intended function of destroying PBW and the mortality rate of larva and pupae was 100%. Cotton interlined sleeping bags for better comfort: Defence personnel, Central and State Reserve Police force, Anti-Naxalite Task Force, and Trekkers need sleeping bags for protection from external environmental elements, insect/ reptile bites, etc. during outdoor stays. At present sleeping bags are manufactured using synthetic materials especially Nylon, Polyester and Polypropylene and are mostly imported. M/s Shree Agro Invent-Tech Pvt Ltd, Mumbai which is a start- up incubated at ICAR-CIRCOT has developed an innovative sleeping bag with the functional finishing technology licensed from CIRCOT with more comfort. These sleeping bags can be modified to protect user (a) Gin trash treatment system, (b) Pink bollworm infestation a b mixing of pulverized agro-residues with natural rubber. Different colours are mixed into the composite mixture. The rubberized composite sheet was molded into different shapes and sizes of garden pots at specific temperature and pressure. These pots are 10–15 times more durable than conventional pots, dimensionally stable, unbreakable, and due to flexibility reduce damage to growing roots, and is biodegradable.