 a) Committee & its Terms of Reference b) Methodology & Approach 3 3. Restructuring of ARS Disciplines 6 4. Eligibility Qualifications 12 5. Revision of Score Card for Direct Selections 14 6. General Reforms 15 7. Other Recommendations 21 I Acknowledgement I, on behalf of the Committee to review the Agricultural Research Service (ARS), would like to take this opportunity to thank Hon’ble Shri Sharad Pawar, Union Minister of Agriculture and Food Processing Industries for instituting this Committee. We sincerely thank Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR who provided wise insight on various issues concerning required improvements in the existing ARS system, which came into being in 1975. We also thank all Deputy Directors General and other senior officers for their overwhelming support and cooperation during the process of this review. As Chairman of the Committee, I would especially place on record my sincere appreciation for Dr. C.D. Mayee, Chairman, ASRB for his active involvement and valuable guidance all through and for drafting the recommendations. All Committee members had made strenuous efforts in drawing a conceptual framework that formed the basis of our discussions and wide consultations with the experts in various disciplines. Details provided by Dr. Arvind Kumar, DDG (Education) concerning post-graduate education in agriculture and allied sciences had helped the committee in conceptualizing its recommendations. The committee also acknowledges the help of Shri K.K. Bajpai, former ADG (Admn. & Coordination), ICAR in defining qualifications for direct selections and thank Shri J. Ravi, Director (Personnel) for his active involvement. The committee would also like to thank various Directors of ICAR Institutes, Vice-Chancellors and members of the scientific community for their feedback and valuable suggestions concerning required improvements in the ARS system. Finally, it is our expectation that recommendations of the Committee will be implemented by the ICAR as a package, so that there is a perceptible change in the service and an enabling environment is created for much better performance of agricultural scientists in meeting the emerging challenges before Indian agriculture. (R.S. Paroda) Chairman 16 March, 2011 ARS-Review Committee II III EXECUTIVE SUMMARY A committee to review the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) was constituted under the chairmanship of Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, ICAR and Secretary, DARE. The committee was assigned the task to review: (i) the existing areas of specialization in the ARS and suggest necessary changes, (ii) recommend eligibility qualifications for ARS, (iii) examine the existing score card for direct selections and (iv) to propose necessary reforms in the ARS system. The Committee had extensive discussions during its six meetings and ensured wide consultation through members representing different disciplines.