 Sales and Advertisements Business Unit plays a key role in distribution and marketing of the publications brought out by the Council among students, scientists and researchers, etc. It par- ticipates in exhibitions and fairs and displays books, journals, periodicals brought out by the Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture of ICAR. During 2001-2002, the Business Unit promoted the sale of books and periodicals both in English and Hindi and earned a revenue of about Rs 35 lakh (up to 28 February, 2002). ICAR Publications Stall during XV World Book Fair, New Delhi, 2002. Shri Shripad Y Naik, MoS for Agriculture, signing in the visitors’ register at the sales counter of DIPA at the India International Trade Fair held from 14-27 November 2001 at Pragati Maidan, New Delhi DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 224 Art and Photography Art Unit has played an important role in enhancing the image of the ICAR by designing and illustrating all the publications and publicity material brought out during the period. Art Unit has successfully adopted the Digital Designing process for all its publi- cations, which has improved the quality of designs in conformity with the new development in printing industry. In collaboration with ARIC (DIPA), Art Unit has digitalized with database all the photographs available in the Photo Library (DIPA) for the purpose of printing the photographs on WEB page of ICAR. The Unit has also started sending photographs by electronic media to international organizations (FAO), as per their requirements. Apart from regular job, a number of special issues of journals were brought out during this period on different subjects for students, scientists, agricultural commu- nity, as well as for general public. All the designs created by the Art Unit were highly appreciated in the Council and also by several international organizations. The Photography Unit provided photographs, colour transparencies for various publications of the ICAR. It covered other activities of the ICAR including visits of dignitaries from other countries and press conferences of the Union Minister of Agriculture and the State Ministers of Agriculture. INFORMATION Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC) Agricultural Research Information Centre (ARIC) is the central source of re- search information of ICAR. During the period under report, it collected and pro- cessed the information on A P Cess Fund Schemes, Research Projects (RPFs), Agricultural Colleges, Indian Agricultural Periodicals, All-India Coordinated Re- search Projects (AICRPs), Deputation Reports, Retired ICAR Scientists, Crop Va- rieties released by ICAR and National Agricultural Research Database.