 The main diara land is located on the beds of rivers. It is frequently inundated by swollen flood waters. Upland diara is the result of continuous decomposition. It is an elevated land. It is less frequently flooded and not much different from non- diara lands. Cultivation in riverbeds starts after the cessation of the southwest monsoon and recession of floods in the rivers, around late October. Most of the cucurbits are sown from November to January. Young plants are protected in the early stages against low temperature and frosty winds, especially in northwest India, by Saccharum grass screens (Nandpuri and Lal, 1978). Later in February this grass is spread over the sand as a mulch and bedding, and the vines are allowed to grow over it. This helps protect the young and tender plants from the heat of the scorching sand during summer and also avoids drifting of the vines during strong winds. Usually some organic matter is the only basal manuring given to the crop. The seedlings are ideally first raised in  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Bed preparation, germination and plant growth on sand dunes   HORTICULTAURAL CROPS polyethylene bags of 10 × 15 cm size made of 100–gauge thickness. Misra (1962), while describing the cultivation of melons on bare new sand dunes, has recommended mulching with Crotalaria burthia. No systematic work has been done on the fertilizer requirements of riverbed- grown cucurbitaceous crops. Purewal (1957) recommended the applivation of 30–60 g. ammonium sulphate per pit at the time of thinning. In a survey on muskmelon cultivation (Anonymous, 1980), it was observed that farmers apply basal dose of manure before sowing or planting. This consists usually of an organic manure such as FYM, compost or castor cake in Gujarat, and groundnut cake or bat guano in Andhra Pradesh. These organic manures provide some kind of warmth to the germinating seedlings. In some areas superphosphate, ammonium sulphate, or any standard fertilizer mixture is also given as basal application, but it is not known whether all the nitrogen is fully available or some is leached away. After 30–40 days of sowing, top-dressing is usually done in two split doses with chemical fertilizers at varying doses in different regions ranging from 250 kg/ ha ammonium sulphate to 125 kg/ha urea or calcium ammonium nitrate (CAN). Use of bentonite clay at the rate of 2 kg/pit followed by 0.75 kg FYM/pit increases the yield in Rajasthan by improving moisture use efficiency and moisture content in round melon, (kakri) or serpent melon and water melon (Singh and Singh, 1975; Singh et al. 1975). No scientific information is available on nutrient requirements of riverbed- growing cucurbitaceous crops. One indirect report is available on nitrogen nutrition of cucurbits. Sen et al. (1980) found that nitrogen content in the leaves of many cucurbits was often much higher than of the sandy soils on which they grow.