 Biofertilizers: Biofertilizers are microorganisms that have the capability of increasing the fertility of soil by fixing atmospheric nitrogen and phosphate solubilization. Biofertilizers, viz. Rhizobium, Azotobacter, Azospirillum, PSB and Pseudomonas etc. have been found to be very effective tools of fertility management and biological nutrient mobilization. Recently, customized consortia of such biofertilizer organisms, better adapted to local climatic conditions have also been developed and are available commercially. Efficiency of such microbial formulations is much higher under no-chemical use situations, therefore, application of such inputs needs to be ensured under all cropping situations. Some important and widely used bio- fertilizers are given here. Rhizobium, Frankia and Anabaena azollae fix atmospheric nitrogen in roots of leguminous plants, form tumour like growth known as root nodules. These are widely used biofertilizers which can fix around 100-300 kg N/ha in one crop season. Blue Green Algae, Azolla, Azotobacter, Azospirillium, Beijerinkia, Clostridium, Klebsiella, Anabaena and Nostoc grow on decomposing soil organic matter and fix atmospheric nitrogen in suitable soil medium. Azotobactor has beneficial effect on vegetables, millets, cereals, sugarcane and cotton. Azospirillium has beneficial effect on oats, barley, maize, sorghum, forage crop and pearl millet. It fixes nitrogen by colonising root zones. Bacillus megaterium var. phosphaticum, Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus circulans and Pseudomonas striata are beneficial bacteria capable of solubilizing inorganic phosphorus from insoluble compounds. Phosphorus solubilization ability of rhizosphere microorganisms is considered important in plant phosphate nutrition. Fungi like Penicillium, Aspergillus awamori and Fusarium play a noteworthy role in increasing the bioavailability of soil phosphates for plant nutrition. Arbuscular mycorrhiza like Glomus sp., Gigaspora sp., Acaulospora sp., Scutellospora sp. and Sclerocystis sp., Ericoid mycorrhizae-Pezizellaericae, Ectomycorrhiza-Laccaria sp., Pisolithus sp., Boletus sp., Amanita sp. and Orchid mycorrhiza- Rhizoctonia solani are phosphate solubilizing microorganisms (PSM) that can play an important role in phosphorus nutrition in many natural and agro-ecosystems. Silicate and zinc solubilizers like Bacillus s p . along with recommended dose of major nutrients increases the availability of the essential nutrients in the rhizosphere zone. Pseudomonas fluorescens is known to enhance plant growth and reduce severity of various diseases. The efficacy of bacterial antagonists in controlling fungal diseases was often better as alone, and sometimes in combination with fungicides. Blue-green algae reduce soil alkalinity and it is good for rice cultivation and bio-reclamation of land. The process of preparing various cow dung, cow urine filtrates has been described here. These filtrates enrich the soil.