 The Principal Executive Officer of the ICAR is the Director General, who also functions as Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Government of India. The General Body of the ICAR Society, headed by the Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare is the supreme authority of the ICAR. Its members include; Ministers for Agriculture, Animal Husbandry and Fisheries, and the senior officers of the various state governments, Members of Parliament and the representatives from industry, research institutes, scientific organizations and farming community (Appendix 1). The Governing Body (Appendix 2) headed by the Community Director General, who is also the Secretary, DARE is the chief executive and decision making authority of the ICAR. The Governing Body consists of eminent agricultural scientists, educationists, public representatives and representatives of the farmers. It is assisted by the Accreditation Board, Regional Committees, Policy and Planning Committee, several Scientific Panels and Publications Committee. In scientific matters, the Director General is assisted by eight Deputy Directors General, one each in (i) Crop Science, (ii) Horticultural Science, (iii) Natural Resource Management, (iv) Animal Science, (v) Agricultural Engineering, (vi) Fisheries Science, (vii) Agricultural Education, and (viii) Agricultural Extension, who are also assisted by Assistant Directors General, and are the Heads of their Subject Matter Divisions (SMDs) for the entire Country. SMDs are responsible for extending all technical and financial guidance and support to the Research Institutes, National Research Centres and the Project Directorates within their respective Divisions. In addition, Assistant Directors General National Agricultural Science Fund (NASF), Coordination, Plan Implementation and Monitoring, Intellectual Property and Technology Management, International Relations and Human Resources Management also assist the Director General in their respective job roles. The ICAR also recruits scientists and other posts, and services through an independent recruitment body, Agricultural Scientists’ Recruitment Board (ASRB), which is accountable to the ICAR Society. ASRB receives funding from the Government of India. The Senior Officers at the ICAR (headquarters) are listed in Appendix 3. The research set up of the ICAR includes 112 Institutes: 69 Research Institutes (Appendix 4), 6 National Bureaux (Appendix 5), 23 Project Directorates and Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (Appendix 6), 14 National Research Centres (Appendix 7), and 81 All India Coordinated Research Projects+Network Research Projects (Appendix 8).