 Technologies for organic disease management include organically permitted fungicides like elemental sulphur, copper-based fungicides, locally available botanicals, plant extracts, bio-control agents (Pseudomonas fluorescens, Trichoderma viride), cultural and mechanical management measures for diseases of major crops. Strategies for sustainable organic horticulture development y Evolve/refine location and niche crop specific organic production packages of practices. y Establish efficient and cost-effective organic seed and planting material supply chain to augment productivity of horticultural crops. Indian Horticulture 14 y Strengthen the input supply chain for organic/bio pesticides, bio-fungicides and bio-weedicides. y Document and characterize local germplasm for effective use in genetic enhancement of crops to meet the challenges of biotic and abiotic stresses and improve yield and quality under organic management. y Identify and develop multiple resistance broad genetic base designer varieties, especially in vegetables and flowers for high productivity and quality under organic management. y Initiate studies on the impact of climate change on horticultural crops and develop mitigation strategies by early forecasting, varietal selection, agronomic management, cropping systems, soil conservation and water productivity. y Advocacy for a designated Organic Agri Export Zone in NE India to facilitate export and concurrent support to contract/cooperative farming. y Structure extensive human resource programs with greater emphasis on training farmers for organic cultivation of horticultural crops, livestock and poultry. y Design horticultural crops-based integrated organic farming systems for small holder farmers as climate change mitigation and income enhancement options. y Generate rural-based infrastructure for processing, storage, and smart packaging and value addition for fruits and vegetables products. y Vitalize the extension network for dissemination of knowledge/technologies and monitor the adoption of organic farming. y Bolster mechanization and automation in horticultural crops by development and use of appropriate tools/ equipment. Prospects Organic farming provides a plethora of opportunities to launch various businesses and start-ups from seed to seed/fruit, processed and value-addition in the input supply chain and also the consumer value chain. The total commercial output for sale from certified organic area, in-conversion and wild harvest production was 29,72,294.29MT while the total organic export was only 3,12,800.51 MT valued at ` 5,525.18 crore ($ 708.33 million). We do not have even a toe-hold in the international organic market. This is largely because we export commodities and very less quantities of high value, low volume processed products.