 NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 108  To recommend strategies for refinement of CAFT programmes to be organized during XII plan period Participants  4 from ICAR organizations  17 from SAUs  3 from other organizations like private colleges, rubber board  Apart from these delegates, delegates 10 other delegates and NAARM faculty participated as experts  Representation from Disciplines-Crop sciences- agricultural microbiology, plant breeding, entomology, agronomy; Horticulture-floriculture and vegetable science; Animal sciences-veterinary pharmacology, veterinary gynecology and obstetrics, animal physiology, veterinary parasitology, veterinary surgery and radiology, veterinary microbiology; Home sciences subjects; Agricultural Engineering, SWC Engineering and farm machinery and power; Social sciences-Agricultural economics, extension and home science extension  Representation from States-Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Jammu & Kashmir, Kerala, Uttar Pradesh, Punjab, West Bengal, Madhya Pradesh Pedagogy  Capturing the perception and opinion of participants through video recording about their opinion on effectiveness, impact of CAFT programmes  Presentation of study results by study team followed by brainstorming  Capturing the opinion of participants on future strategies for CAFT in XII plan period Resource Material  Background paper  Technical bulletin in the similar line on “Training transfer at NARS and its implications” Recommendations of the Workshop Given in the final recommendations of the study Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 109 

¥ -- IC ..... CflttSl 31 C?!'l4 EITGf q R lSI C! ~, STO "lIJiS! Q'l~IG 'Cfffdf, ~ ~ccll 1 1 0 0 0 1 REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE A committee was constituted under the Chairmanship of Dr. R.S. Paroda, former Director General, leAR and Chairman, TA.f\S to review the existing disciplines in the Agricultural Research Service (ARS) , eligibility qualifications for these disciplines, score-card for direct selection to various scientific positions and to suggest management reforms in the ARS. The Committee submitted its report to the President of the ICAR Society on 16th March, 2011 and the same was placed in the Governing Body at its meeting held on 6th April, 2011. The GB has endorsed the report and further action to implement the specific recommendations of the Committee is being taken in accordance with the relevant rules. The report is being uploaded in the lCAR website for perusal and suggestions. Suggestions may be mailed till 21st May, 2011 to Director (Personnel) - jravi icar@yahoo.co-in. :~-) [ ::t~~_ .- (Rajiv Mangotra) Deputy Secretary (P) REPORT OF THE ARS REVIEW COMMITTEE Contents Page No. Acknowledgement I Submission Certificate II Executive Summary III 1. Preface 1 2.