 As a result, implementing a monitoring module is essential for diagnosing faulty situations and averting abnormal network performance stemming from the control system. Therefore, the monitoring, control theory, and decision support technologies must be carefully considered in an efficient irrigation system to provide a precision irrigation setup [114]. Figure 4. Smart irrigation water-saving (SIWSS) monitoring and control systems (redraw from [20,112]). Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 16 of 40 3.3.1. Smart Irrigation Water-Saving Controlling Tools (a) Open-loop control system (OCS) OCS is the control system with no feedback system and is a one-way signal flow system without input [115]. Christ and Wernli Sr. [116] informed that an OCS represents a condition on a functioning machine with two fundamental states: “On” or “Off”. This system is crucial for the proper operation of the equipment. An example of OCS feedback is a simple light switch that, upon activation, remains in the “On” or “Off” position until manually changed. It is easy to design and implement. It is economical compared to several other control systems. Their maintenance is simple and easy to construct and use. However, it has some disadvantages. Its bandwidth is less, and due to the one-signal system, it does not allow or facilitate the automation process [117–119]. Moreover, the farmer makes decisions using irrigation timers in the OCS irrigation control system. However, the volume and time of the irrigation water delivered to the crop are judged according to the traditional scheduling method. Its advantage is that it is simple to install, operate, and maintain because no sensors and actuators are required to implement or manage the system [120]. (b) Closed-loop control (CLS) A CLS, called a feedback control system, employs an open loop system in its forward path, with one or more feedback loops or paths between its output and input. The term “feedback” denotes that a portion of the output is returned to the input, contributing to the system excitation. It eliminates the shortcomings of open-loop control [121]. CLS is designed to automatically achieve and maintain the desired output condition by comparing it with the actual condition. In the control system, the operator manually or automatically defines and sets the point/control value, representing a higher level of automation than the envelope protection system [122]. In other words, a CLS is a fully automatic control system whose control action is somehow dependent on the output. CLS plays a significant role in a broad application range, from production machinery via automated vehicles to robots. CLS robustly operates the actual values of a process to match pre-determined set points, typically in in situ conditions and with significant precision [123].