 Fish Transplantation worthiness of cryopreserved germ cells of Indian major carp: Cryopreservation is an essential tool for germplasm conservation and improvement of productivity in aquaculture. The transplantation worthiness of isolated cryopreserved germ cells (GCs) of Indian major carp, rohu (Labeo rohita) was tested by their viability and colonization ability in the allogenic host (Catla catla). Rohu GCs were successfully cryopreserved with significantly higher viability using slow cooling rate of –1°C/min and a medium containing dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). The frozen/thawed GCs colonized and proliferated in the recipients’ gonad. This technique of transplantation of GC into adult gonads paves way for further applications in surrogate animal development. Surrogate broodstock development: Production Caribro-Dhanraj At 44th RSPPT (Gurgaon) CARIBRO-Dhanraja secured III rank with 6-week body weight of 1.59 kg, FCR (0- 6 weeks) 2.3%, mortality 4.6% and dressing 71.56%. Margin of receipt over feed cost at 6-weeks was ` 1.94/bird. Fertile eggs were procured from village areas, chicks were hatched and performance was evaluated. Variety development Narmadanidhi, a dual purpose colour bird, for rural poultry farming was developed and released under AICRP on Poultry Breeding at NDPCVVV, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh. Male birds attained 1 kg body weight in 9-10 weeks of age, while body weight at 20 weeks ranged from 1.6 to 2.2 kg in males and 1.3 to 1.7 kg in females. The annual egg production is about 180 eggs under backyard system. Jharsim, a multi-coloured bird, suitable for rural poultry production was developed and released under AICRP on Poultry Breeding at BAU, Ranchi, Jharkhand. The body weight at sexual maturity is 1.6-1.8 kg and annual egg production is 120-130 eggs. Narmadanidhi Jharsim Adult common carp Cyprinus carpio (A), testis (B) and ovary (C) showing absence of germ cell after heat-chemical treatment [Scale bar = A (2-cm), B & C (50-μm)] LIVESTOCK IMPROVEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 60 of surrogate broodstock will help propagate commercially important fishes that are difficult to breed in confinement and also aid in recovery of endangered fish populations. Sterile gonads of common carp, Cyprinus carpio were produced using heat-chemical method. These common carp with sterile gonads can be used as recipient for transplantation of donor germ cells, for development of surrogate broodstock. On injection of cytotoxic drug, busulfan, severe gonadal degeneration was observed after 10 weeks at 38oC water temperature. Hundred per cent sterile (devoid of endogenous germ cells) male and female were obtained. Quantitative analysis of vasa gene transcription and change in colouration of gonads were found to be additional tools to measure the degree of gonad sterility. Broodstock diet for pearlspot: EtroBroodPlus, a functional feed for sustaining higher fry yield was developed by ICAR-CIBA.