 In contrast to biological crops, its electronic version, i.e. e-Crop computes the quantity of food produced and stored in its storage organs by its biological counterpart. The biological processes involved in food production are simulated in the e-Crop with the help of mathematical formulae. This is a weatherproof electronic device which works directly in the field. Sensors in the device are used for collecting data on weather and soil parameters. The data collected by the sensors are sent to the control unit for processing from where it is sent to the cloud. Sensors are positioned on the exterior of the box. This system simulates crop growth real-time, in response to weather and soil parameter data collected from the field and generates agro-advisory and send it to the farmer’s mobile as SMS. This device can be used for giving real-time agro- advisory of any crop to reduce yield gap and to achieve targeted yield. Weather parameters of the day; the potential yield that can be achieved by the crop after its stipulated duration as per its present crop condition and anticipated weather scenarios; N, P, K and moisture required to be applied to achieve this targeted yield etc. are part of the advisory received in the mobile phone as SMS and the farmer can follow these strategies to increase the yield to the desired level. Such appropriate diagnostic tools that help in the application of fertilizers at the time of demand and in smaller and frequent doses can help to reduce the losses while maintaining or increasing the yield from the crops. This is an excellent device for precision farming, which collects the data real-time from the field, generates advisory and inform the farmer about the present and future status of the crops as well as the strategies to manage the crop to get better results. The data collected by the devices installed in different fields give a very clear realistic overall status of the crop at present and in future. This information will be useful to the policy makers and planners as well as for averting the market risk which usually emanates from an unexpected boom in production/supply, fall in prices etc. If information about the production is known well in advance, sufficient precautions can be taken to avoid such risks. A web interface is used to manage smart farming with e-Crop. This web interface resides in the cloud and communicates with the control unit. The main function of this interface is to add users and their privileges, and input various values of crops, fertilizer, soil type, locations, adding new device etc., according to the privileges assigned to different users. Problems solved by e-Crop: The e-Crop helps to achieve higher productivity by reducing yield gap. This product calculates plot-by-plot yield gap daily and quantifies, N, P, K and water requirement to reduce it. This information is sent to the farmers daily as SMS.