 Lentil lectin also displays antiviral activity against SARs- CoV and MERS-CoV. This lectin also blocks the binding of ACE2 to the S trimer and inhibits SARS-CoV-2 during the early stages of infection. Supplying mice with it resulted in no cytotoxic activity or weight loss. Based on these results, the authors highlighted the importance of their work in developing new strategies against SARS-CoV-2. Another study in the medical area evaluated the effect of free polyphenols or those bound to lentil shells and their digestive products on the anti-inflammatory mechanism based on the NF-kB and Keap1-Nrf2 pathways in HT-29 model cells. In total, 27 polyphe- nols and 5 non-phenolic constituents were identified in the free and bound fractions. Catechin glucoside, kaempferol tetraglucoside, procyanidin dimer, and dihydroxybenzoic acid-O-dipentoside were the main polyphenols in the digestive products. These digestive products reduced inflammatory mediators and presented anti-inflammatory activity by inhibiting Nf-kB and activating Keap1-Nrf2. These results indicate that lentil shells are a good source of anti-inflammatory ingredients [92]. Moreover, lentil phenolic compounds protected liver cells against cytotoxicity-induced oxidative stress. The effects of lentil phenols on stress-induced hepatotoxicity in AML12 and BALB/c mouse hepatocytes were evaluated. Treatment with H2O2 caused a marked decrease in cell viability. However, pretreatment with phenols (25–100 µg/mL) for 24 h preserved 50% cell viability at 100 µg/mL. Phenols drastically reduce ROS levels, partly by inducing the expression of antioxidant genes. Additionally, pretreatment with phenols (400 mg/kg) for two weeks reduced serum alanine transaminase and triglyceride levels by 49% and 40%, respectively, and increased glutathione peroxidase expression and activity in CCl4-treated BALB/c mice. These results suggest that lentil phenols protect liver cells against oxidative stress, partially through the induction of the cellular antioxidant system, thus representing a potential source of nutraceuticals with hepatoprotective effects [93]. 9. Use of Lentils in Soil Bioremediation Other uses of lentils are in the bioremediation area; however, this is not directly related to nitrogen. Sulfonylureas are popular herbicides used to control weeds, which, despite helping with agricultural problems, also affect the development of crops grown in soils treated with these herbicides. Therefore, Rainbird et al. [94] evaluated the phytoremediation capacity of lentils grown in uncontaminated soil and soil contaminated with Chlorsulfuron, with or without PulseAider supplementation. The results showed that the presence of lentils increased the degradation of Chlorsulfuron and the degradation rate increased in the presence of PulseAider. This study offers a feasible and economical solution for residual remediation of sulfonylurea herbicides.