 Control is possible by avoiding the mixing goat and sheep populations, and isolation of infected goats from the herd. Though vaccines are available, vaccination is not practiced in the field situation. Recovery from clinical disease or vaccination provides only partial immunity for up to 3 months. Recurrence is common but is usually less severe. Treatment is supportive to keep the animal feeding and heal the lesions faster using 5% boro- Diagrammatic representation of factors responsible for stress related to PPR promoting its transmission Stress Introduction of recently purchased animals Change in husbandry and trading practices Sudden change in weather History of recent movement or gathering together of sheep or goats of different ages with or without associated changes in housing and feeding Contact in a closed/village flock with sheep or goats that had been sent to market but returned unsold PPR affected goats with discharge from nose Post mortem finding of lungs showing pneumonia of antero-ventral part, atelectesis in PPR Indian Farming 31 July 2023 glycerine solution, antiseptic and fly repellents. Endo-parasitism Infection with endo-parasites remains an important problem goat farmers face in our country. Goats that graze are always exposed to parasites and are thus constantly re-infected even after routine deworming. These parasites cause losses to farmers in many ways. Goats with worm load tend to have poor growth rate, weak, diarrhoeic, neurological problems, anaemic and poor feed utilization. Parasitism can also cause decreased fertility, abortion, unthriftiness, increased susceptibility to disease and death. The most important intestinal parasites affecting goat health are the gastrointestinal trichostrongyles (Barber pole worm or Haemonchus contortus) in a commercial goat herd. In field conditions, goats kept on grazing often suffer from cyst formation (metacestode stage) due to cestode parasite primarily Echinococcus (unilocular hydatid cyst), Taenia (Gid, Coenurus cyst), etc. Goat acts as intermediate host which acquires eggs while grazing, released in faeces of canids. Effective control of this parasite will significantly contribute to the goat’s health and reduce loss due to mortality. Barber pole worm: Barber pole worm commonly referred to as Haemonchus contortus, is a major problem for goats specially if managed under a semi-intensive and intensive system of farming. It is copper-coloured worm. Adult male and female worms feed on blood and produce eggs. Adult females may deposit as many as 5000 to 10000 eggs per day. Clinically characterised by anaemia, low packed cell volume (PCV), diarrhoea, dehydration, peripheral, and internal fluid accumulation. Recently it has become a significant problem limiting the productivity of goat farming. Indiscriminate and frequent use of anthelmintic and development of resistance, overstocking of goats, climate change such as high temperature and moisture and many other undetermined causes.