 Nutritious cereal-based production system ● M 35-1 sorghum proved the most suitable genotype, having high regeneration capacity in tissue-culture response. ● Early-sown sorghum (first fornight of July) escaped the blast diseases. Resistant varieties showed increased activity of phenyl alanine ammonia lyase (PAL) and peroxidase and increased level of phenol compared with the susceptible ones. Total chlorophyll content was more in resistant varieties. ● Growing cowpea as an early-season crop either for vegetable purpose or for incorporation into the soil, followed by second crop of transplanted finger millet later in the season was found as a profitable crop sequence at Bangalore, Berhampur and Coimbatore. MISSION MODE PROGRAMMES Three more subprojects have been approved under the mission mode (MM,) making a total of 41 subprojects at the cost of Rs 1,771.6 million. The achievements under Mission Mode are as follows: Crop Sciences ● About 411 exploration surveys resulted in collection of 24,599 germplasm lines of different crops including 1,651 herbarium specimen. A total of 8,929 germplasm were assigned IC number and stored for mid-term storage. The number of field gene banks with CCPIs is 15,670. ● Two GMS hybrids in cotton (AAHI and PKHVY 5), two varieties and one hybrid in sorghum (CSV 216 R, RSLG 262 and SPH 1010), four single- cross, early-maturing maize hybrids released for higher productivity. Male- sterile genotypes (CMS, GMS) and R lines resistant to cotton leaf curl virus and tolerant to bollworm were identified in cotton. Two CMS (GT 288A and 67A) along with 20 fertility restorers were developed in pigeonpea. ● Substantial progress was made in synthesizing the three Bt genes (cry1F, cry1Aa and cry1IA5) to make them suitable for plant expression. ● Standard protocols for isolation of protease inhibitor proteins from chickpea, cowpea and pigeonpea were established; transformation and regeneration protocol for pigeonpea and Brassica was standardized and being further refined. Simultaneous isolation of protease inhibitor gene from indigenous legumes was accomplished. ● The putative molecular markers for genes Lr 19, Lr 32 and Lr 28 were identified. ● The process for the manufacture of azadirachtin was refined; technical know- how for the preparation of dihydroazadirachtin was developed (patent has been filed); Azadirachtins A, B and H were separated by medium pressure liquid chromatography and characterized spectroscopically; and some potential stabilizers capable of stabilizing azadirachtin were identified. NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL TECHNOLOGY PROJECT 197 Household food and nutritional security Production of quality seed and planting material was taken up in mango, litchi, seedless lime, kagzi lime, coorg mandarin, arecanut and black pepper. In front-line demonstration of improved technologies, 5,250 plants of litchi, 928 plants of mango, 1,000 seedlings of acid lime and other crops were produced for distribution to the farmers.