 In 19 countries, more than 50,000 hectares are under biotech crops; and 9 countries are from the Asia-Pacific region. Top 5 countries cultivating GM crops are USA, Brazil, Argentina, Canada and India. Biotech crops would alleviate poverty and hunger by contributing towards sustainable development goals (SDGs) 1, 2 by providing better food and income along with fulfilling SDGs 3, 6, 13, 14, 15 by safeguarding environment and conservation of biodiversity. Gene editing is simpler and more efficient technique used in crop sector. Gene editing tools like CRISPR-Cas9 allow scientists to develop more nutritious, climate-resilient crops for sustainable farming systems without introducing any foreign DNA from other plant species. Scientifically speaking, gene-edited pro- ducts need to be treated similar to the products obtained from the traditional breeding with the highest precision. There is an active debate at the global level and particularly in Asian and African countries for regulation of gene-edited products with major questions (i) how to do a risk assessment for a gene-edited product? (ii) Is the existing risk assessment framework necessary for the safety assessment of gene-edited products? (iii) Can genetic detection techniques be employed to differentiate between the gene-edited product and a similar product obtained by the conventional breeding? For the past over 25 years, GM crops are being cultivated and consumed in several countries including in Asia with no adverse effects on the health and environment, therefore, they appear to be safe to grow and consume. However, debate is still on. Enforcement of any regulation would be very difficult in most gene-edited products (SDN 1) as the detection of the change(s) at gene level is not possible by examining phenotype without information of specific gene edits. Only those products such as SDN 2 and 3 with foreign DNA where detection is possible may have to be subjected to safety assessment. To save the cost, time and energy to provide solutions through gene editing to the contemporary issues related to production and productivity, harmonization of regulation would be a win-win situation for governments and regulators, product developers and public and consumers. 103 Cutting-edge Research Agri-biotechnology offer opportunities for the transformational change in agriculture. All the crops are affected by adverse climate, diseases and pests due to which there are almost 50 per cent pre- and post-harvest losses which decrease farmers income. Agri-biotechnological crops produced through gene editing will allow disease-resistant crops to manage the pest infestations and will help in withstanding climate change. The concept of developing disease resistance and climate-resilient traits is not new in breeding but being capable of doing it in a fraction of time as compared to conventional approaches makes it a revolution worth considering in the world of biosciences or agricultural science.