2 seconds Pollinators in chrysanthemum crops would also offer an entrepreneurship opportunity and a new source of income for rural youths and farm women. These varieties are ideal for higher seed production in cross pollinated crops. These are suitable for gardens to conserve the biodiversity and off-season flora for apiculture farmers also and useful to support pollinator’s network in pollination-dependent crop. Pollinator-friendly genotypes of chrysanthemum Authentication of Tinospora cordifolia-based herbal supplements: A high-resolution mass spectrometry (HRMS) method was developed to distinguish Tinospora cordifolia from closely related species, T. crispa and T. sinensis, for authenticating herbal supplements. UNIFI software facilitated automatic ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 84 CROP MANAGEMENT Culture of Turkey tail mushroom concentration of 1.74 µg/g of ergocalciferol, while a 10-minute exposure resulted in a concentration of 57.61 µg/g of ergocalciferol, compared to the control sample with a very low concentration of 0.06 µg/g. To obtain 100% of the recommended daily allowance (RDA) of vitamin D (18 µg/day), 20-28 g of fresh Elm Oyster mushrooms exposed to 5-second UV pulse generator light is required. Culture of Turkey tail mushroom (Trametes versicolor): Cultivation technology for medicinal mushroom Trametes versicolor (Turkey tail mushroom) was standardized. Combination of 90% wheat straw and 10% wheat bran was identified as the best substrate formulation. Total crop yield was estimated to be 7.5% BE. Crop Protection Biological control of tea mosquito bug in guava: Biological control of tea mosquito bug (Helopeltis antonii) by application of Beauveria bassiana WP @ 10 g/l (109 CFU/g - 4 sprays) recorded best results in reducing fruit damage (81%) and equally effective as chemical spray on guava with good yield, benefit cost ratio and least effect on natural enemies. Management of hoppers and thrips: Oil-based formulation of Metarhizium anisopliae revealed that M. anisopliae when sprayed at one ml/l showed best results in reducing hoppers population after every spray with higher productivity at Bengaluru (89.71 kg/ tree), Mohanpur (78.09 kg/tree), Pantnagar (50.61 kg/ plant), Paria (39.9 kg/tree), Periyakulam (67.03 kg/ plant), Sangareddy (30.02 kg/tree) and Vengurla (29.46 kg/tree).