Jha,Research Associate,Department of Fisheries Ranchi Veterinary College, Birsa Agricultural University, Kanke, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 Location of use of the ITK : Banpur, Jori, Kisko, Lohardaga (Jharkhand) Experimenter : Dr B. K. Roy, Associate Professor, Department of Pharmacology and Toxicology, Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi (Jharkhand) 834 006 METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Banpur, P.O. Jori, block Kisko, dist. Lohardaga (Jharkhand). PRA and field study PRA tools were used in Banpur village of Lohardaga district in Jharkhand, having 20 Table 1. Performance assessment of root of daydhapara as anthelmintic agent for cattle, buffalo, goats and pigs in comparison to allopathicmedicine Criterion Paste of root of Allopathic daydhapara medicine Extent of cure 6 8 Cost effectiveness 10 2 Safety 10 6 Influence on milk yield 4 2 Improvement of health 3 4 Fig. 1. Use of root of daydhapara as an anthemintic agent for cattle  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY respondents to study the effectiveness of practice. The parameters or factors included in the study were: extent of cure, cost effectiveness, safety, influence on milk yield and improvement of health. Experiment An experiment was carried out in 20 replicates having two groups of cattle. In the first group of 10 animals, 250 g of root of daydhapara was mixed with 2 spoon salt was administered orally once for 3 days. The stool was examined before and after administration of the paste. In the second group one bolus of panacur to each of 10 affected animals was given once only. The stool was examined after 24 hr of anthelmintic administration. The technical parameters included; extent of worm removal, duration of treatment and milk yield. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION PRA and field study The results given in Table 1 show that the ITK adopted by farmers is very cheap, for which they have scored 10 out of 10. However, they consider that it is less effective as compared to allopathic medicine, and is 100% safe. However, they scored 3 for its effect on milk yield as compared to 4 for allopathic treatment. Table 2. Effect of paste of root of daydhapara mixed with salt and allopathic medicine in worm elimination in cattle Days after Paste of daydhapara Panacur Treatment (% effectiveness) (% elimination) 1 10 80 2 15 - 3 20 - Experiment Result presented in Table 2 show that the ITK material removed 10% of helminthes after 1 day treatment which increased to 20% after three days of the treatment. However, the allopathic medicine after single dose removed 80% of the helminthes from gastrointestinal tract. In fact, 100% of elimination of helminthes is not desirable by an anthelmintic; only 80% removal of helminthes is ranked excellent and below 60% elimination by an anthelmintic agent is ranked poor.