 By using this practice infestation of the disease is reduced to a great extent. Keywords: paddy blast, delayed application of basal dose of urea Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu, Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2365 Method of saving maize seed from insects When the maize seeds are sown in field and if it does not rain after sowing, the insects eat the maize seed and crop production is reduced. To save the seeds from insects, the maize seeds are dipped in cow urine for sowing in the field for 10-12 hr. If it does not rain after sowing up to 20-25 days, the seeds remain unaffected. It is followed in Kasoli area of Shri Pawan Kumar Parihar Himchal Pradesh Government Press, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  Solan district of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: maize, cow urine 2413 Use of wood ash for controlling cutworm attack in maize Cutworm attack is very common in maize and it causes heavy damage in maize crop. Farmers in hilly areas use dust of wood ash in maize to protect the crop against cutworm. This practice is fully effective and is used by the farmers of Mogla area of Rajouri district in Jammu & Kashmir. Keywords: wood ash, cutworm, maize Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2372 Indigenous methods of preventing blister beetle infestation in maize This technique is reported to be prevalent in maize crop. The maize growers of the intermediate zones in Jammu and Kashmir collect blister beetles and after killing it is set on fire. The blisters are also exposed to the smoke emanating from fire. As a result it gets destroyed and thus the menance of the insect is averted. This smokes also act as repellent for other insect pests, including blister beetles. Keywords: blister beetle, maize crop, smoke Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documenta tion and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher- EKashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2400 Treatment of maize seed with deodar oil Cutworm is the major insect-pest of maize crop. When maize is taken after mustard, the infestation may go as high as 75%. Therefore, the farmers of maize-growing areas of Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir treat maize seeds with deodar oil.