99% icar annual report 2022-23 227 aPPENDICES In order to ensure safety measures on PFMS platform, the following features are being enforced for treasury operations: (a) Verification of each payment request with physical bill without fail before putting the digital signature by Pay &Accounts Offices (PAOs). (b) Use of NIC/GOV domain e-mail IDs for user registration by the officials dealing with PAO and DDO module of PFMS. (c) Immediate deactivation of user(s) found to be no longer active (d) Deactivation of user ID /Digital key of PAO/ AAO user type at the time permanent transfer/ superannuation). (e) Use of NIC/GOV domain e-mail IDs for user registration by the officials dealing with PAO and DDO module of PFMS. (f) Implementation of OTP based log in system on PFMS in phased manner. (II) Implementation of electronic Bill (e-Bill) System of Public Financial Management System (PFMS) In pursuance of the Digital India Initiative of Hon’ble Prime Minister, it was decided to develop a system to enable end to end digital processing of bills and claims from vendors, suppliers, contractors and all other typ es of payees of Government. The system was developed in the PFMS for the use in all Civil Ministries and Departments. With the initiative of e-bill, the complete payment system has become paperless. yy End-to-End electronic processing of claim and bill through PMFS on pilot-roll out of electronic Bill (e-Bill) system has been introduced in Department of Agricultural Research and Education w.e.f. 1 June 2022. icar annual report 2022-23 228 4(i) Minister-in-charge of the portfolio of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare in the Union Cabinet-President of the Society. President 1. Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Ex-officio Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi-110 001 4(ii) Minister of State in the Union Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare dealing with ICAR- Vice President of the Society Vice President 2. Shri Kailash Choudhary Ex-officio Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India, Krishi Bhavan, New Delhi-110 001 4(iii) Union Ministers holding charge of Finance, Planning, Science and Technology, Education and Commerce (in case the Prime Minister is holding any of these portfolios, the Minister of State in the Ministry/Department concerned). 3. Smt. Nirmala Sitharaman Ex-officio Minister of Finance and Corporate Affairs, Government of India, North Block, New Delhi-110 001 4. Shri Rao Inderjit Singh Ex-officio Minister of State (IC) for Planning, Statistics and Programme Implementation and MoS of Corporate Affairs, Government of India, Room No. 132, NITI Aayog, New Delhi 110001 5. Dr. Jitendra Singh Ex-officio Minister of State (IC) for Science and Technology and Earth Sciences, Government of India, CSIR Building, 2 Rafi Marg, New Delhi-110 001 6.