The treatments were imposed on tomato and lady's finger at BAU, Ranchi and lady's finger at OUAT, Bhubneswar and bitter gourd and brinjal at BCKVV, W.B. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The results presented in Table 1 show that in tomato the application of insecticide was more effective than ITK but ITK was better than the Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Table 1. Effect of application of starch, animal urine and dusting of cowdung ash vis-a-vis chemical insecticides on insect-pest infestation in vegetables Figures in parentheses represent data of OUAT, Bhubaneshwar control. The fruit yield observed at BAU, Ranchi was maximum (205.29 q/ha) in insecticide application than the other treatments. In lady's finger, insecticide spray was more effective than the other treatments, but ITK was better than control in reducing the insect pest. All the treatments were ineffective in bitter gourd. A similar trend was observed by OUAT, Bhubneshwar at BCKVV, W.B. The yield of bitter gourd was very poor due to attack of fruit fly and epilachana beetle. But ITK method was more effective to control the insect pests in brinjal and gave highest yield (113.30 q/ha), followed by chemical insecticide (105.59 q/ha) and control (97.27 q/ha). CONCLUSION Spraying of animal urine mixed with starch followed by dusting of cowdung ash to control major insect pests in tomato and lady's finger was effective, compared to control but the application of insecticide was more effective than ITK at BAU, Ranchi. In brinjal the ITK method was more effective than that of chemical insecticide. However, no treatment was found effective in bitter gourd. □ Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : 1417 : Control of shoot and fruit borer through use of tobacco (Nicotiana tobaccum) soaked water in brinjal (Solanum melongena) : The shoot and fruit borers are very common in Kauwakol, Jorawardih and Mananiyatari villages in Kauwakol block in Nawada district of Bihar. Tobacco is soaked in water in the ratio of 1 : 10 overnight and the extracted liquid is filtered through fine cotton cloth. The filtered material is sprayed either with spray machine or fine broom. Before spraying, 1-2 teaspoonful detergent powder is mixed in the filtered liquid. This is an age old practice by majority of the farmers in these villages. Shri Mahavir Singh, village Kauwakol, block Kauwakol, district Nawada 805 106 (Bihar) Village Kauwakol, Sokhodeora, block Kauwakol, district Nawada, State Bihar 805 106 Dr S. Choubey, Sr Scientist-cum-Training Organiser, Department of Agronomy and Dr R.P.