 Keywords: dropping tail switch, mustard oil, iron rod Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  2495 Use of whey, wood ash and black pepper for treatment of hair loss in cattle Hair loss is very common problem in cattle throughout the year. For its treatment, about 1-2 litres whey is mixed with a few grams of wood ash and a little amount of black pepper. This content is properly mixed and given orally to the animal for a few days in small doses to cure hair loss problem among cattle. This treatment is used in Balot village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: hair loss, cattle, whey, wood ash, black pepper Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel, Himachal Pradesh University, Summer Hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2622 Use of mustard oil to treat the loss of hair from cattle tail Sometime hair loss from tail of animals starts and spread to whole body. In some cases bleeding starts from tail and it causes the death of animal. For treatment of this disease, a sharp cut is made with blade on the lower portion of the tail and then it is dipped into hot mustard oil. Then this portion is tied with thread. Mustard oil is smeared twice a day on the tail and whole of the body for 3-4 days. This technology is being followed in whole Theong tehsil of Shimla district in Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: hair loss, sharp cut in tail, mustard oil Shri Deep Ram Verma Jagheri, Theog, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 201 2586 Use of aak to control worm infestation on the tail of animals Sometimes a kind of parasite attacks the tail end of animals due to which the tail gets necrosed necessitating amputation of the tail. The nomads rearing the animals have observed that if treatment is done with milk of aak (Calotrpis procera), the parasite is expelled from the tail. This practice is being used by the farmers in Sunderbani area of Rajouri district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: aak , parasite Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricul- tural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2636 Use of aak leaves to control the afra disease in animals About 5-6 leaves of aak (Calotropis gigantia) are collected and fed to affected animal thrice a day by putting in bread (chapati). The practice is continued for 4-5 days to get complete relief. It is in vogue in Suhagi village of Jabalpur district of Madhya Pradesh.