 Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 44 Use of shallu or hallu (Lepidium sativum) in animal ration Volume 2, page 329 Shallu or hallu Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Bengali: halim, aleveri; Gujarati: asalio, halim; Hindi: halim, hurf; Kannada: allibija, kurutige; Marathi: ahliva; Punjabi: halim, Shargundei, tezak; Tamil: aliverai; Telugu: adalavitulu, adeli, adityalu. Garden cress Lepidium sativum Linn. Its leaves are consumed as salad. It is also cooked with vegetable curry and is used as garnish. It also has medicinal use and is used in the treatment of asthma, cough and bleeding piles. Leaves are mildly stimulent and diuretic. The root is used in secondary syphilis and tenesmus. The seeds of the plant are rubefacient, galactagogue, emmenagogue, laxative, tonic, aphrodisiac and diuretic. A small, herbaceous, glabrous annual, 15-45 cm high, cultivated as a salad plant throughout India; it is found as an escape. Leaves variable, entire or variously lobed or pinnatisect; radicle leaves long-petioled, twice pinnatisect, cauline leaves sessile, linear, linear-oblong or pinnatifid; flowers small, white, in long racemes; pods small, orbicular-ovate, notched at apex, winged; seeds solitary in each cell. It is a poly-morphous species, considered to have originated primarily in the highland region of Ethiopia and Eritrea; Europe and western Habit Asia are regarded as secondary centres of form origination. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 54 Barley feed for weak animals Volume 2, page 330 Barley Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Bengali: jabjau; Gujarati:yaw, jav, ymvah; Hindi: jau, jav; Kannada:y'ave godhi; Marathi:y'ava; Punjabkjaon; Sanskrit: yava; Tamil: barliyarisi; Telugu: barlibiyam, yavaka. Barley Hordeum vulgare Linn. The bark of barley is ground to flour for local consumption. Barley grain is demulcent. Powdered parched grains are used in the form of a gruel for painful and atonic dyspepsia. It is given in feverish disorder, inflammation of the membranes of the chest, diarrhoea and catarrhal disorder of bowel. The straw is used as a roughage for livestock or as a bedding. Geographical indications Habit An annual erect, stout, tufted herb, 2-4 ft high, resembling wheat in habit; leaves few, linear-lanceolate, upper one close to the spike; sheath smooth, striate; ligules short, membranous; spikes terminal, linear-oblong, compressed, 2—21/2 in.