 Diagnostics were also developed for several viral diseases of national importance using coat protein for simultaneous detection of several viruses as Cucumber mosaic virus, Papaya ring spot virus and Groundnut bud necrosis virus. One step lateral flow assay has been developed for on-farm detection and identification for four viruses viz., large cardamom chirke virus, Cardamom bushy dwarf virus, Potato virus Y and Papaya ring spot virus. Multiplex PCR was standardized for detection of six RNA viruses infecting potato namely PVX, PVY, PVS, PVM, PLRV and PVA. Multiplex PCR was also standardized for the detection of Poty, Carla and Alexi viruses in Garlic. A microarray has been developed for detection of plant viruses and viroids for which sequences were available. Several viruses and viroids were detected using this chip from different crops such as grapevine, chilli, tomato and sugarcane. 2.3. Epidemiology of major plant diseases On the basis of a series of epidemiological investigations by wheat researchers, the stem rust rules were formulated using climatic data which explained the nature and recurrence of Puccinia graminis tritici and P. triticina. These rules suggested that the urediniospores originating from the Nilgiris spread to Central India under the influence of tropical cyclone that occurs in the Bay of Bengal during November. Based on this a disease management strategy was formulated and implemented to contain crop losses. On a similar basis, the nature and recurrence of the leaf rust (P. triticina) and the stripe rust (P. striiformis) over the Indo-Gangetic Plains. Gene matching techniques developed helped in postulating the resistance genes in the variety before its official release. The work on late blight forecasting in India started in 1950’s when Chaudhuri and Pal (1959) utilized the rainfall data and dates of appearance of late blight in Darjeeling hills for 12 years. A computerized forecasting model ‘JHULSACAST’ for western Uttar Pradesh which has 3 important components: late blight prediction model, a computer programme for forecasting and an interface to utilize weather data from an automatic weather station. Recently, JHULSACAST model was implemented in western Uttar Pradesh using Wireless Sensor Networks (WSN) to forecast late blight and the model could forecast the disease well in advance in comparison to other forecasting models tested. Indo-Blightcast, a web-based pan India model has been developed for forecasting potato late blight across the country (Singh et al. 2016). The advantages of Indo-Blight cast model are that it predicts late blight appearance using daily mean temperature and RH data available with meteorological stations and is an improvement over JHULSACAST.