 Involvement of Krishi Vigyan Kendra’s, NGO’s and Self-Help Groups (SHG’s) makes them popular and helps them to sell out their fresh as well as value added products. They are also providing training facilities in remote areas. For further information, please write to: Dr Nirmal Kumar Meena (Assistant Professor and PI), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Jhalawar, Rajasthan 326 023. *Corresponding author: nirmalchf@gmail.com Processing and value addition of Karonda July–August 2023 15 O NION (Allium cepa L.) is one of the most important commercial vegetable used as salad, vegetable and spice all over the world. It belongs to the family Alliaceae. India is second largest onion producing country in the world after China. Soil Soil for onion cultivation should be light, deep friable and highly fertile. Sandy soil needs more and frequent irrigation along with additional supplement of FYM or compost. In general, sandy loam to clay loam soil with pH 6.0-7.5 is more suitable. Highly alkaline and saline soils are not suitable for onion cultivation. Addition of well decomposed organic manure helps in improving fertility status of soil, besides improving the soil physical conditions and availability of microorganisms. Onions are very much sensitive to the effects of high watertable, so, well drained soils are best. Varieties of rabi onion The selection of suitable variety is most important. Some suitable onion varieties for rabi season are given below. Bhima Red: This variety is released by Indian Council of Agricultural Research- Directorate of Onion and Garlic Research (ICAR-DOGR), Rajgurunagar, Pune, Maharashtra and recommended as rabi variety for Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh. Crop duration varies due to season, climatic conditions, soil type, etc. Duration of this variety is 110-120 days after transplanting (DAT). Average total yield of 30-32 t/ha can be obtained from this variety. Bhima Shakti: This variety is released by ICAR- DOGR, Rajgurunagar, Pune in 2011 and recommended for rabi season in Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh, Delhi, Gujarat, Haryana, Karnataka, Madhya Pradesh, Maharashtra, Odisha, Punjab, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh. Agrifound Light Red: This variety was released by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF) in 1988 and recommended for rabi season all over the country. Generally about 100-120 days are required for harvest after transplanting. Average yield of 30-32.50 t/ha can be obtained from this variety. NHRDF Red-2 (L-355): This variety is released by National Horticultural Research and Development Foundation (NHRDF). It is recommended as rabi variety for zone-III (Delhi, Uttar Pradesh, Haryana, Bihar and Punjab), zone-IV (Rajasthan and Gujarat) and zone-VI (Maharashtra, Karnataka and Andhra Pradesh). Duration of this variety is 100-120 DAT. Average yield of 30-35 t/ha can be obtained from this variety.