 Collection of germplasm from indigenous sources: Survey led to collection of 14 Musa accessions from lower and upper Dibang districts of Arunachal Pradesh; 16 elite clones comprising three high yielding Grand Naine, two ultra dwarf and three dwarf Grand Naine, six high yielding Ney Poovan including a shy suckering (without side suckers) type and two high yielding Nendran having green pseudostem from Tamil Nadu and Karnataka; one thornless accession of wild ber (Zizyphus rotundifolia) from Bikaner, Rajasthan; 11 bael, 9 guava, 3 acid lime and one each of lemon, Manila tamarind and jamun from Gujarat, Maharashtra and Uttar Pradesh; 299 germplasm of 36 vegetable crops from hilly and border area of Tripura; 118 new collections of tropical tuber crops including 29 sweet potato, 21 taro, 20 greater yam, 8 elephant foot yam, five each in bunda and aerial yam, four in cassava, 26 minor tuber crops from different sources/regions; 95 seed spices germplasm lines from Uttarakhand, Bihar and Rajasthan; 170 new wild mushroom germplasm accessions (important edible specimens of mushrooms Agrocybe aegerta, Auricularia sp., Flammulina velutipes, Agaricus sp., Pleurotus sp., Ganoderma sp., etc.) from the forest of Himachal Pradesh, Maharashtra and Chhattisgarh. Strains (30) of mushrooms as pure tissue cultures were conserved in the Gene Bank. Characterization and identification of germplasm: On the basis of morpho-taxonomic characterization, seven new banana germplasm accession were identified Musa saddlensis—bunch and fruit with seeds Musa thomsonii—bunch and fruit with immature pink seeds Collection of new edible mushroom GENETIC RESOURCES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 24 (IC0627268, INGR19027), a male sterile line of ashwagandha, were registered with ICAR-NBPGR, New Delhi. LIVESTOCK New breeds registered Breed Registration Committee approved registration of 15 new breeds of livestock and poultry. These include two breeds of cattle; three of buffaloes; six of goats; and one each of sheep, pig, donkey and chicken. Total number of indigenous breeds now in the country is 184, which includes 43 cattle, 16 buffaloes, 34 goats, 43 sheep, 7 horses and ponies, 9 camel, 8 pigs, 2 donkey, 1 yak, 19 chicken, 1 duck, and 1 of geese. Ladakhi cattle: Ladakhi cattle (INDIA_CATTLE_ 0700_LADAKHI_03042), native to Ladakh region, are small, short statured, black or brown animals well adapted to extreme cold climatic and hypoxic conditions. Body is compact with short legs. These cattle are reared under extensive system for milk, draught and manure purposes. Horns are curved slightly upward and forward ending with pointed tips over the forehead. Forehead is straight, small and hairy with slightly long face. Udder is small and bowl shaped. Milk yield 2 to 5 kg/day, milk fat 5%, and is used mainly for producing butter and churpi, an important part of local diet.