2 Besides, the latest major interventions include the ‘Atma Nirbhar Bharat – Agriculture’ which includes comprehensive market reforms and creation of ‘Agricultural Infrastructure Fund (AIF)’ worth Rs. 1 lakh crores including Rs 500 crores for the Bee-Keeping initiative. In addition to this several market reforms have been rolled out. These include a. Model APLMC (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2017 b. Establishment of 22,000 number of Gramin Agriculture Markets (GrAMs) as aggregation platforms Agri-Export Policy, that targets to double agri-exports by 2022 c. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion & Facilitation) Act, 2020 d. The Farmers (Empowerment & Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020 e. Amendments to Essential Commodities Act, 1955, that deregulates various agri-commodities f. Promotion of 10,000 FPOs by 2024 The Government also created Corpus Funds for the benefit of farmers such as : a. Micro Irrigation Fund – Rs. 5,000 crores b. Agri-Marketing Fund to strengthen eNAM and GrAMs – Rs. 2,000 crores Atmanirbhar Bharat Abhiyaan (ABA): 1.11 It is the vision of new India announced by the Hon’ble Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi on May 12, 2020. In agriculture, ABA aims to strengthen Infrastructure, Logistics, Capacity Building, Governance and Administrative Reforms. The components of the ABA for DAC&FW are as follows: Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF): 1.11.1 Central Sector Scheme of financing facility under Agri Infrastructure Fund is operational from the year 2020-21 to 2029-30. The aim is creation of infrastructure at the farm gate. The scheme shall provide a medium - long term debt financing facility for investment in viable projects for postharvest management Infrastructure and community farming assets through interest subvention and financial support. Under the scheme, Rs. 1 Lakh Crore will be provided by banks and financial institutions as loans to Primary Agricultural Credit Societies (PACS), Marketing Cooperative Societies, Farmer Producers Organizations (FPOs), Self Help Group (SHG), Farmers, 7 Joint Liability Groups (JLG), Multipurpose Cooperative Societies, Agri-entrepreneurs, Startups and Central/ State agency or Local Body sponsored Public Private Partnership Project. The National Beekeeping and Honey Mission (NBHM): 1.11.2 Rs.500 crore from 2020-2021 to 2022-2023 is allocated for the sector. The scheme (NBHM) has following three Mini Missions under which main thrust will be given for setting up of infrastructural facilities, etc. for overall promotion and development of scientific beekeeping in the country: A. Mini Mission-I: will concentrate on production & productivity improvements of various crops through promotion development/ extension/ adoption of scientific beekeeping by the farmers/ beekeepers/ other stakeholders.