01) during different months except for February—March, April-May, and September—October and their mean values were comparable but showed significant differences (p < 0.01) with other months of SCM quarters. Similarly, the mean values of the udder thermograms of the CM quarters of Sahiwal cows showed significant differences (p < 0.01) among the different months and were comparable between February—March, August—April, May-June, and September—October but showed a significant difference (p < 0.01) between other months. A similar pattern was observed in the teat skin surface temperature of the Sahiwal cows. Similarly, seasonal assessments of mastitis using thermal image analysis were carried out in Tharparkar, Gir, HFCB, and Murrah buffalo cows. The developed DL-CNN model had training and validation accuracy of (normal vs. clinical) to the tune of 0.96 and 0.98, respectively, and the sequential model (normal vs. subclinical) to the tune of 0.98 and 0.95. The testing accuracy for the DL-CNN sequential models was 0.96 in Murrah buffaloes. Similarly, the training and validation accuracy of the sequential model (normal vs. clinical) via the augmented dataset in Sahiwal cows reflected a TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 99 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 100 performance to the tune of 0.994 and 0.938, respectively and the sequential model (normal vs. subclinical) to the tune of 0.941 and 0.751. The testing accuracy for the DL-CNN sequential model (normal vs. clinical) was 0.93, and the sequential model (normal vs. subclinical) was 0.77. Objective/Purpose • To enhance sub-clinical mastitis detection accuracy, utilize Infrared Thermography (IRT). • Develop deep learning convolutional neural network (DL-CNN) algorithms to predict intramammary infection (IMI) status automatically and accurately. • Implement precision farming techniques to provide actionable insights for proactive decision-making and optimize overall health management practices. The schematic representation of the mastitis assessment and further algorithm development in Murrah buffalo is depicted below: Figure 2: Mastitis Assessment Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report performance to the tune of 0.994 and 0.938, respectively and the sequential model (normal vs. subclinical) to the tune of 0.941 and 0.751. The testing accuracy for the DL-CNN sequential model (normal vs. clinical) was 0.93, and the sequential model (normal vs. subclinical) was 0.77. Objective/Purpose * To enhance sub-clinical mastitis detection accuracy, utilize Infrared Thermography (IRT). * Develop deep learning convolutional neural network (DL-CNN) algorithms to predict intramammary infection (IMI) status automatically and accurately.