 Keywords: Calcareous soils, Diara, Impact assessment, Land use plan, North Bihar, Tall lands, Ushar Indian Farming 73 (10): 03-07; October 2023 T HE Indo-Gangetic Plains (IGP) has been regarded as one of the most fertile lands in India, occupying about 0.7 million km2 area of the subcontinent. Its least fertile part is commonly known as Ushar Bhumi. In Bihar, Ushar lands predominantly occur in Northern, North Western and North Frontier parts of the state. The physiographic sub division is the North Bihar plains and Awadh plains (Extension from Uttar Pradesh). The soils of the region suffer with severe constraints of high pH, high calcareousness, frequent flooding, heavy siltation and impeded drainage situation damaging the crop growth. The four major tributaries of mighty Ganga namely, Gandak, Burhi Gandak, Kosi and Mahananda are responsible for frequent flood hazards and heavy siltation in the region, every year. The sediments carried and deposited by these tributaries from Nepal-Himalayas are the major causes of formation of salt affected soils. This belt is popularly known for rice-wheat, maize-wheat and maize-maize based cropping systems as the major agricultural practices. Anonymous records for past few decades revealed that there is a sharp decline in productivity of major crops, which has imposed a serious impact on the livelihood security of farmers of the region. Traditional and faulty agricultural practices with low input management might have caused severe physical and chemical degradation of soils, too. There has been a necessity to look after the causes of soil degradation and to assess suitable cropping practices in the region. Henceforth, a shift is required to new cropping/ plantation/ allied systems from the traditional practices to increase farm level productivity. Soil resource inventory based alternate land use plan can provide the impetus towards agricultural sustainability to enhance livelihood security of the farmers of the region. Methodology The study area is situated in Motihari block of Purvi Champaran district, Bihar, encompassing 23,577 ha area. It represents the agro-ecological sub region of 13.1 i.e., North Bihar and Avadh plains, hot moist sub-humid eco-region with an annual precipitation of 1202 mm. Detailed soil resource inventory was conducted using Sentinel-2 multispectral imageries. Representative soils were selected from different landforms viz., meander plains, young alluvial plains, active flood plains and Char lands (point bars) (Fig. 1). Representative soils were examined for their morphological properties through free survey technique and physical and chemical properties through standard analytical Indian Farming 4 October 2023 protocols. The study area has been marked with several ox-bow lakes, covering about 5% of the geographic area of the block. They mostly occurred in low-lying (depressed) areas of meander plains, due to meandering course of the river Burhi Gandak.