 Increasing the fertilizer-use efficiency Enriching organic sources Increasing nutrient-supplying capacities of indigenous phosphatic resources Monitoring the emerging nutrient-related problems Promoting integrated nutrient management Developing and refining inoculation technologies. WATER MANAGEMENT Water is a key input for improving crop production. Since independence, a huge investment has been made for creating irrigation potential using both surface and groundwater. Though about 64 million ha may now be irrigated, efficient utilization of water to overcome waterlogging, soil salinization and low crop productivity remain a key concern. OBJECTIVES Improving use-efficiency of available water resources Integrated water management Conjunctive utilization of surface and groundwater resources in canal commands Putting to use poor quality groundwater, drainage effluents and sewerage for irrigation. Mined watershed treated mechanically and Clear water now flows longer from the low peaks of vegetatively the watersheds that had been spoilt due to mining Completely degraded watershed due to mining Grasses and trees provide an effective vegetation Horti-pastures raised on drip irrigation in degraded cover to the Shiwalik watershed sandy soils Clean water harvested into a pond from the Shiwalik watershed SUCCESS AT WATER HARVESTING, CSWCRT i, DEHRA DUN Multipurpose water reservoir with earthen embankments Harvesting of rainwater at Rel Majra, Ropar, Punjab, with the help of the scientists of the CSWCRTI, Dehra Dun, has led to the transformation of the degraded rainfed hilly terrain into a community-managed highly productive land ACHIEVEMENTS Affordable drip system developed by the CAZRI, Jodhpur, for irrigating the high-value crops Excess rainfall in rice fields is measured by this device developed by the Water Technology Centre for Eastern Region, Bhubaneswar, Orissa Nadi, an indigenous structure for harvesting water in the Thar desert of Rajasthan Water requirements of crops have been determined and irrigation schedules for crops and cropping systems in different agro-ecological situations advised. Methods for water economy have been evaluated for field adoption. Surface and sub-surface drainage designing criteria have been enforced. Technologies have been developed for rainwater harvesting and recycling. Water quality standards for irrigation have been tested. 5 as IN FUTURE... Developing water production functions Enhancing water- and nutrient-use efficiency by adopting efficient irrigation schedules, and resorting to micro-irrigation for fertigation Conjunctive utilization of water from various sources and of varying quality Developing water management models by optimizing water demands and augmenting water supplies Developing technologies for recharging groundwater and computing regional salt and water balances.