 and also can be chemically converted into some other important compounds like menthone, carvone or thymol and into high value commercially important menthofuran through biotransformation. Therefore, this new variety CIM-Vishisht will be helpful in opening new avenues for industry and research. Other mint varieties Some of the prominent varieties of mint developed by CSIR include: Sambhav, Ganga, Damroo, Neerkalka, CIM-Indus, CIM-Patra, Anant Carvomint, and CIM- Madhuras. Neerkalka is a hybrid mint plant developed by employing sexual crossing between Mentha arvensis and Mentha spicat. It has high oil yield and shows combined characteristics typical of both parent plants. Another CSIR developed variety of mentha, CIM-Indus contains menthofuran, one of the major aromatic constituents of the essential oil extracted from the leaves of Mentha piperita. Another high menthofuran containing mint genotype is CIM-Patra, which is an ideal candidate for commercial utilization. Yet another CSIR developed variety of sweet smelling peppermint (Mentha piperita) christened CIM- Madhuras produces characteristic essential oil having medicinal, therapeutic and beverage properties. Cultivation Climatic requirements: Mentha can be grown all over India, wherever assured irrigation is available. It needs a well distributed rainfall of 200-250 cm and bright sunshine for good growth. Soil Type: Well-drained, sandy loam to loamy soil with moderate to high organic matter, is best for this crop. The soil should be free from acidity, salinity, alkalinity and water-logging. Rotations: Mentha-Potato, Mentha–Toria, Mentha– Oats (fodder), Mentha-Basmati, Mentha–Wheat–Maize– Potato, Mentha-Maize-Potato, Mentha-DSBR-Potato Time of planting: The best planting time is the mid- January to the end of January, however, Kosi should be planted from end of January to mid of February. The crop can also be raised by transplanting in April. Seed rate: Mentha is propagated through suckers. About 2 q of freshly dug 5-8 cm long suckers are enough for one acre. Method of planting: The suckers are laid end to end, 4-5 cm deep in furrows, 45 cm apart and are then covered with soil by planking lightly. For higher biomass production and water saving, planting should be done on 67.5 cm wide beds (two rows) or ridges should be made at 60 cm spacing after broadcasting the suckers. Apply 24 q of paddy straw mulch per acre and apply a light irrigation after planting. Fully matured menthol mint crop Indian Horticulture 12 yy Use two quintals of disease free sucker for planting an acre. yy Do not plant sprouted suckers, as most of such suckers die. yy Sow the crop during mid January to end January, however, Kosi variety can be sown up to mid February. yy For water saving and higher yield, sow the crop on beds/ ridges and apply paddy straw mulch @ 24 q / acre. yy For higher returns, grow mentha as an intercrop in sunflower/sugarcane or onion as an intercrop in mentha.