 Develop & domesticate commercially important fin fishes’ brood stocks and SPF, SPR, SPT brood stocks for shrimps. b. Promote species diversification & establishment of hatcheries. a. Implement research, training and extension programmes on optimum utilization of water resources for maximizing per ha production. b. Promote location specific and economically feasible technologies generation c. Establish disease diagnosis centres/ laboratories. d. Provide insurance cover to shrimp/ fish crop. e. Develop proper policies at par with agriculture sector. f. Promote land allotment on the basis of carrying capacity of water bodies. 3. Marine-water Capture fisheries: • Low catch per unit • Poor or unexploited fisheries resources. • Mariculture policy does not exist. • Poor mechanization of fishing crafts and gears • Poor species diversification a. Designing fishing gears, crafts, methods & equipments. b. Effective utilization & outreach programmes on Potential Fishing Zones (PFZ). a. Promote cage, pen, seaweed, oyster, and mussel farming policies in marine waters. b. Species diversification by including seaweeds molluscs. c. Promote research, training and extension programmes. d. Promote sea ranching programmes and marine ornamental fish culture. 2. Promoting on-farm ancillary activities: State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 160 Sl Issue Status Action Plan (Including policy No reforms) Implementing Strategy 1. Promoting on- farm honey production (Apiculture) At present, there is no prevailing scheme / project on honey production or apiculture popularization in the state. a. Purchase, distribution and maintenance of honeybee colonies. b. Increasing awareness on bee conservation by avoiding pesticide usage at the time of flowering. a. Devise mechanism for purchase of honeybee colonies. b. Identify farm pockets and distribute honeybee colonies to farmers. c. Train farmers on apicultural activities. d. Conduct research on beekeeping especially on bee breeding and nucleus colonies. 2. Incentivizing mushroom cultivation A viable venture with low input and high income. However, expertise is critically lacking in the state on profitable production and marketing. a. Prioritize training on mushroom cultivation and marketing. b. Strengthen spawn laboratory and other infrastructure among stakeholder agencies. a. Promote training on different aspects of mushroom cultivation and marketing. b. Create awareness on functional / nutritional benefits of mushroom. c. Develop Spawn availability and substrate pasteurization centers along with dehydration facilities. d. Incentivize mushroom growers association. 3. Invigorating organic farming 1. Increasing area under organic farming • The state is most suited for organic farming as a significant portion of its agricultural land is rainfed. • P i o n e e r state to establish first ever Organic University in the country. a. Demonstrate and organize training on different organic farming techniques. b.