 l Compared with plant foods iodine content was found to be higher in milk. l Amaranth grain an unconventional and underutilized crop had an exceptionally higher iodine content. l Unconventional green leafy vegetables from hilly region contained higher iodine content. l RDA of iodine requirement could be met when the intake of population is adequate in terms of major foods such as cereals and pulses. However, inclusion of milk and green leafy vegetables in the daily dietary will also help in meeting the requirement of iodine. Value addition to agro and animal based fibres and indigenous dyes Keeping in view of the increased demand for eco-friendly products in textiles world wide, the All India Coordinated Research Project has rightly aimed at developing the eco-friendly natural dyes and processes on natural fibres. Around 36 new sources of natural dyes were identified and their dyeing procedures were standardized for silk/wool and cotton and around 5,184 shades were developed by all the nine AICRP centers. Mordanting with different combinations of mordants developed new natural shades on cotton and silk/wool. Six mordant combinations were selected namely, alum + chrome, alum + copper sulphate, alum + ferrous sulphate, chrome + copper sulphate, chrome + ferrous sulphate and copper sulphate + ferrous sulphate. Three mordant proportions, viz., 1 : 1, 1 : 3 and 3 : 1 and three mordanting methods were selected. Each AICRP–CT center has developed new shades on cotton and silk/wool with 6 mordant combinations using 4 natural dyes optimized earlier. Thus an additional 3,888 shades on silk/wool and cotton were developed using 36 natural dye sources during the current year. The dyed samples were assessed for colour fastness to all serviceable conditions such as washing, sunlight, crocking and perspiration. The results revealed that combining mordants have improved some of the shades. Combining two natural dye sources by union dyeing produced several new shades. A total of 972 shades were produced by union dyeing. Among these 324 best shades were selected for which colour fastnesss tests were carried out. The combination of dyes produced a wide variety of shades to fill the spectrum of colours for the weavers and dyers in natural dyeing. The technologies developed by each center were introduced to the artisans and COMPREHENSIVE CHILD CARE THROUGH FARM CRECHE The project on Comprehensive Child Care through farm creche—an intervention for optimum developmental outcomes of infants was concluded from birth to 18 months and 497 from experimental group drawn from nine AICRP (CD) centres with an interval of six months between two testing. The result indicated a improvement in psychomotor and mental development indices of infants from birth to 36 months. Another component on Empowerment of Rural Girl Child for quality life and prevalence Etiology of exceptionalities in Rural Areas was also initiated during this period.