 In the first phase, the problem was tackled by sampling from two dimensional populations where, in one dimension selection of sampling units was considered and in the other dimension sampling was spread over time in which the selected units were observed. An approach for a variety of sampling designs associated with sampling overtime was developed using the varying probability sampling methods. This method was tested on secondary data in which different duration of time intervals—on which the data were to be collected and also the periodicity for the systematic sampling interval—were tackled. A span of 7 days in a gap of 14 days was a suitable plan for observing partial harvest data for different vegetable crops. In the second phase, a survey was conducted in rural areas of Delhi during 1995-96, through which the methodology developed for estimation of vegetable production based on partial harvest was demonstrated. This method will be useful for the State Agriculture departments that are providing statistics of production of vegetable crops to the Ministry of Agriculture, Government of India. ● A need was felt to estimate, with reliable precision, the quantum of intake by animals through grazing. The IASRI, New Delhi, conducted studies to evolve technique for determination of intake through grazing and gave precise estimates of intake. The total intake by an animal is through stall feeding and grazing. On an average intake of a cattle per day was 3 kg green, 6 kg dry fodder, about 1 kg concentrates and 6.3 kg herbage through grazing; and intake of buffalo was 3 kg green, 7 kg dry, 3 kg concentrates and 8.4 kg herbage through grazing. The technique evolved for estimation of intake through grazing is based on statistical principles. The findings of the technique were encouraging. The results would be useful for to the dairy planners and other agencies involved in animal husbandry activities. ● A fatigue score card based on qualitative and quantitative physiological characteristics of camel was developed in collaboration with Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Rewari, under the aegies of the All India Co-ordinated Research Project on Utilization of Animal Energy. This fatigue score card is very useful for the farmers, military, farms, etc. Suitable work cycles were also obtained for various draughts. ● A linear programming approach was developed for estimating/projecting the energy requirement in agricultural sector. The approach uses the maximization of yield subject to the constraints on the availability of energy SAMPLING PROCEDURE FOR SELECTION OF REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES OF FERTILIZERS FROM SHIP A suitable procedure is necessary to check whether the imported fertilizer is as per specifications given in the supply order.