 As part of the integration activity for multi-analyte detection system, the detection of bacteria {Listeria monocytogenes) in milk was achieved by the joint efforts of three Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 52 consortium partners, and a kit for the detection of pesticide residues based on nanoparticles was also developed. 2.5 Metabolomics in Agriculture Identification and characterization of specific genes/metabolites linked with rancidity and their bioavailability patterns in landraces and elite cultivars of pearl millet for the development of nutri-rich products: To identify the putative genes and reconstruct the pathway linked with flour rancidity, de novo transcriptome sequencing of landraces (Damodhar Bajri and Chadhi Bajri), hybrid (Pusa1201) and composite (PC-701) were carried out. In-depth annotation domain search analysis identified and facilitated the cloning of five lipases and two lipoxygenases. The expression analysis of TAG-lipase showed maximum relative fold expression during mealy- ripe stage of endosperm development in diverse genotypes of pearl millet. Similar pattern was observed in case of lipoxygenase (LOX and LOX- 6) genes. A direct correlation was observed between the expression and activities of lipase and lipoxygenase in endosperm tissue of pearl millet. The open reading frame of putative TAG- Lipase gene cloned from Pusa1201 was further mobilized in pMal C5x expression vector and was expressed by inducing with 0.8 mM IPTG. The transformed E. coli cells were harvested and further recombinant lipase protein of ~14 kDa was purified using anion exchange column and ultra Amicon column. Rice rhizosphere metabolome - and microbiome functions for improved crop establishment, growth, and yield: The metabolite profiling of seed exudates showed distinct differences among the genotypes tested (cv. Pusa Basmati 1509, cv. R-43, and cv. Sulendhas). The seed microbial diversity differed in these three contrasting rice genotypes, illustrated by the group-specific q-PCR and meta transcriptomic analyses. The number of Bacterial 16S rRNA gene copies in cv. R- 43 was significantly higher than other genotypes. The predominant endophytic bacterial morphotypes were isolated and purified from seed husks and grains of different rice cultivars. From a total of 144 isolates, 45 isolates that exhibited an equal or more than 5 bonitur values were chosen for characterizing their environment adaptive functional traits. The metabolite profiles of rice rhizosphere under puddled-transplanted Heterologous expression of TAG-Lipase gene in E. coli system for the purification of recombinant protein, a) pMal C5x vector, b) Induction of E. coli cells using IPTG, c) Induced MBP with lipase protein, d) Purified recombinant lipase protein. 53 Salient Achievements of the Projects and dry direct-seeded experiments showed clear distinctions between the control and modified nitrogen environments by hierarchical clustering.