 National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) NAHEP is designed to strengthen the national agricultural education system in India with an overall objective to provide more relevant and high quality education to agricultural university students through promoting efficiency and competiveness via increased teaching and research standards through improved and enhanced faculty competency and commitments. There are four key components under NAHEP, namely; Institutional Development Plan (IDP), Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST), ICAR to support excellence in Agricultural Universities (AUs), and ICAR Innovation Grants (IG) to AUs. Till September 2019, out of 75 participating AUs, 44 AUs were awarded under IDP, CAAST and IG component. Under Component 2 (Investments in ICAR for Leadership in Agricultural Higher Education) is awarded to IASRI lead centre and NAARM, Hyderabad and NIAP as a cooperating centres. Institutional Development Plan: The major activities by AUs under IDP component included strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure, AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 107 Some of the isolates showed significant drought tolerance to chilli and tomato and salinity tolerance in tomato and paddy. Further, these isolates are being evaluated under field condition. ICAR-NICRA pest predict models were validated and developed for forewarning pest and diseases in paddy (Gundhi Bug, Stem borer pest and blast disease). MPKV, Rahuri developed the infrastructure for undertaking the advanced studies in Climate Smart Agriculture and Water Management for the post graduate/ Doctoral level students. In the centre at BCKV, Mohanpur on Conservation Agriculture (CA) theme, Demonstration unit has been established in university farm, and experiments are being conducted on location specific conservation agriculture technologies.22 Ph.D. and 13 M.Sc./M.Tech are currently pursuing research in this area. The centre also formulated and offered three specialized courses on conservation agriculture for the Ph.D. and M.Sc/ M.Tech students working on different thematic areas of the centre. Genomics Assisted Crop Improvement and Management centre carried out research in the area of marker assisted selection for biotic stresses in rice, maize, chillies, groundnut and validation of SSR markers in finger millet, dolichos bean and horse gram were performed by IARI, New Delhi. CAAST centres supported International training for faculty and students at 12th AFAF, Iloilo City, Philippines, Washington State University Pullman, USA, North Carolina State University, USA, etc . Workshops and Discussions: Brain storming sessions, group discussions, and panel discussions were also organized on a number of topics Short course on “Protected cultivation of vegetable crops” was delivered to the university students.