 Details of cell lines originated from different fish tissues and maintained in NRFC Tissue Number Fin 27 Gill 10 Eye 6 Heart 7 Spleen 5 Kidney 4 Caudal peduncle 4 Brain 4 Muscle 4 Thymus 4 Liver 2 Testes 1 Barbels 1 Peritoneal 1 Blood lymphocytes 1 These cell lines have extensively been used to study the susceptibility of cells to various viruses, such as viral nervous necrosis virus (VVNV), cyprinid herpes viral haematopoietic necrosis virus (CyHv2), tilapia lake virus (TiLV), red sea bream iridovirus etc. and also to assess cytotoxic effects of extracellular components from various bacteria and numerous heavy metals as well as pesticides. The repository is continuously supplying authenticated and contamination-free fish cell lines to researchers through a Material Transfer Agreement (MTA) within 15–20 days of request. The NRFC has provided critical inputs to India’s National Surveillance Programme on Aquatic Animal Disease (NSPAAD) to tackle the threat of aquatic diseases. It enabled the researchers to study the first report of Cyprinid herpes virus-2 in goldfish Indian Farming 37 December 2023 in India. Since August, 2013, a total over 130 fish cell line requests have been processed and distributed to researchers all over India for R&D works. ICAR-NBFGR through NRFC has conducted several short-term hands-on training programmes to build human resource capacity and supported researchers and students working on cell lines. Some of the issues like cross- contamination with other cell lines or with mycoplasma is a serious problem faced by researchers working on cell culture. It has been reported that almost 1/3rd to 1/5th of the cell lines have been misidentified. Hence, accessing authentic cell lines becomes important for the right interpretation of experimental results. NRFC ensures that the developed/ submitted cell lines are authenticated and fully characterized before assigning the accession number to them. Once a cell line is received from a depositor, it is subjected to various checks. A mycoplasma detection test is performed to ensure that only mycoplasma-free cell lines are accepted. DNA sequencing of COI and 16S region is undertaken to authenticate the species of origin of the cell line. Chromosome preparation and immunostaining is performed to offer more information about the cell line. Only when the cell lines clear all the tests, an accession number is provided and the cell line accepted is for deposition in the depository. This ensures that researchers are able to work on authentic and contamination-free cell lines. For long-term storage, the cell lines are cryopreserved using liquid nitrogen. There is scope to further expand NRFC based on the intensity of application in future. SUMMARY New and innovative technologies are always needed to meet the food security and nutritional requirements of every individuals in the growing global population.