 Post harvest management, farm mechanization and value addition The action points / success indicators for development / refinement of equipment would include intended performance of the equipment and its commercial viability. Test results and on-farm trials will be used to judge the expected output. The success indicators will cover technologies developed to create innovative products that are commercially acceptable in competitive markets. page : 17 of 21 Generated on : 30/03/2012 Results-Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research and Education - (2012-2013) Section 5: Specific Performance Requirements from other Departments 1. A strong network support for channelizing awareness through training programmes, inputs like monetary support / loans, availability of germplasm, medicines, etc. and market access through state development agencies, KVKs and NGOs would play a major role. (State AH departments, DADF, KVKs, NGOs). 2. Development of animal disease diagnostics and vaccines requires sound commitment for monitoring support for production of diagnostic vaccines whereas for validation under field conditions, a strong commitment and participation of state agencies will be required. (State AH departments, Pvt. Industry for up-scaling). 3. The quantity of breeder seed produced is based on the quantity indented by Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, which in turn collects indents from various seed agencies including State Departments of Agriculture. 4. Technology adoption would depend upon the proactive role of development departments namely DAC, DST, DBT, DADF, SAUs etc. 5. Regarding the achievements related to technology assessment through OFTs and capacity building through training programme, the support of ICAR institutions and SAUs are required in order to ensure timely technology and methodology backstopping. In addition, farmers participation, sponsorship of trainees from the line departments, availability of required demonstration plots for conducting OFTS trials are some of the much needed support from the stakeholders. 6. The success with respect to promotion of technologies covering gender issues requires the collaboration of AICRP centres, Agricultural Engineering Division and the line departments are important in generating suitable gender data base, assessment of the technologies keeping in view the gender perspectives and their dissemination. 7. Popularization and commercialization of tools and equipment will require continued support of Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Ministry of Agriculture for frontline demonstrations on large scale and capacity building of stakeholders and proactive role taken by various line departments in promoting improved technologies. 8.