 Tall, evergreen tree with a straight trunk considered to be a native of the drier parts of Sri Lanka, very commonly cultivated all over India in gardens and avenues. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 370 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 216 Polygonum aviculare - H-Machoti B-Machuti Said to possess astringent, tonic, antipyretic, antiseptic, diuretic, haemostatic and vermifuge properties. It is used in treatment of diabetics, rheumatism, fever and external and internal ulcers. A decoction of the herb is given in dysentery, diarrhoea, bronchitis and bleeding piles. Highly variable annual herb, with prostrate stem and branches up to 60 cm, distributed from Kashmir to Kumaoun at an altitude of 1800–3600. 217 Polygonum hydropiper Water pepper B-Packur Herb possesses stimulant, diuretic, styptic, emmenagogue and lithontriptic properties. Liquid extract of the plant is used as an oral contraceptive. Infusion of the herb is used in uterine disorder and as a haemostatic. The bruised leaves and seeds are used as vesicants and are substitute for mustard poultice. The leaves are chewed to relieve toothache. The roots are bitter and possess stimulant, diuretic, carminative, tonic and anthelmintic properties. The juice (root) is used as wash for skin affections. Glabrous often glandular, reddish, annual or perennial herb up to 80 cm high, distributed through out India in wet places, ascending up to an altitude of 2100 m in the Himalayas. 218 Pongamia pinnata Karanj H-Mar B-Mer G-Karanj Tel-Gaanuja T-Porya Kan-Honge M-Punga O-Karanju Kuaranjn is the active principle for the curative effect of oil in the skin diseases. Oil possesses insecticidal and anti- bacterial properties. Leaf act as a galactagogue. Juice of the root is used for cleansing foul ulcer and cleaning teeth. Dried flowers are used in decoction to quench thirst in diabetes. Medium sized glabrous tree, with a short bole, crown up to 180 m high, found almost through out India, up to an altitude of 1200 m. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 371 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 219 Premna integrifolia - H-Agetha B-Bhutbhiravi M-Aran G-Mothi-arni Tel-Pomanti T-Munnay Kan-Takkit Mal-Munna O-Aguyabat The roots form a constituent of the well known ayurvedic medicine Dasamula, used as a cure for obstinate fever. Prescribed as a laxative, stomachic cordial and tonic. Leaves possess carminative and galactagogue properties and are used in the preparation of soup given as stomachic. Decoction of the leaves is used in the treatement of colic and flatulence. Aqueous extract of the plant showed a powerful action on the uterus of the animal.