) are switched on only when the temperature inside the drying chamber is less than 55°C and switched off when the temperature exceeds 70°C. A separate control circuit is also incorporated to switch off the heating system once the drying is complete. This is done by monitoring the exhaust temperature using thermistor sensors. Development of Solar Tunnel Drying System for Agricultural Produce Solar tunnel dryer (STD) with 3-tier drying chamber has been developed under an ad-hoc scheme at IIT, Delhi. The division of drying chamber in 3-tier has made it thermally more efficient (by reducing heat wastage) and economically viable (by reducing length of the dryer). The solar tunnel dryer has the capability to dry about 2,000 kg low moisture crop, e.g. barley within 2 days. This modification enhances drying rate and reduces drying time. The length and diameter of STD are 6 m and 1.5 m, respectively. Experiments were also conducted on tomatoes. The observed initial moisture content of tomatoes was 94% (wb) and the final about 6%. The rate of drying is much faster inside the drier than in open under the sun. Snowball Tender Coconut Machine A machine for production of snowball from tender coconuts has been developed at CPCRI, Kasaragod Centre of AICRP on PHT. It has a capacity of 20 nuts/operator/ hour. The machine is operated by 0.75 kW electric motor. Packaging technology for the snowball tender nuts has also been developed. Briquettes are also prepared from the pith and shell pieces of tender coconuts. Thus, whole of the coconut is used in this value-addition process without any part going as waste. Development of Intermediate Moisture Coconut Chips Process for production of intermediate moisture coconut chips has been developed at CPCRI, Kasaragod Centre of the AICRP on PHT using osmotic dehydration. The maximum rate of dehydration and best colour of the chips were obtained at 55– 63° Brix. Agitation is not required but stirring of the syrup once every 10 min. was found best. The sweet coconut chips prepared by using 55-63° Brix sugar syrup strength with salt concentration of 3-4% with respect to syrup volume followed by hot air drying at 50°C is recommended for use of the product as snack food. Refined Technology for Bottling of Sugarcane Juice A process has been developed at TNAU, Coimbatore to preserve sugarcane juice up to 120 days in glass bottles using sodium benzoate (125 ppm) and pasteurization of filled bottles. The process costs less than Rs 2/180 ml bottle. Feasibility report of the project has been prepared for the benefit of the potential entrepreneurs. A pre-grinder for oilseeds of 100 kg/hr capacity has been developed at CIPHET, Ludhiana PRE-GRINDER FOR OILSEEDS This machine consists of 2 mild steel rollers having 45 cm length and 20 cm diameter. These two rollers rotate in opposite directions at 400 rpm. The gap between the rollers can be adjusted from 1 to 10 mm. This machine is operated by 1 hp 3-phase motor.