 The brief features of the machine are; it has three integrated crushers with a total crushing capacity of 18 metric tonnes/day of cotton-seed and 28 metric tonnes/day groundnut and other seeds, the 30 HP motor that powers the machine is an integral part of the main body of the machine, the motor is linked with the three crushers using a planetary gear system, which increases the efficiency of utilization of the power generated by the machine, the machine receives the feed through the conventional hopper, the seeds received through the hopper are steamed in chambers, the machine has three parallel chambers for steaming the seeds and each chamber leads to a separate crusher. The chambers have been designed in such a way that seeds get steam from all the angles. Pressing machines follow the steam chambers: one pressing machine is connected to each steaming chamber. The pressing machines push the seed into the crusher, ensuring that the seeds are not pushed back. The pressing also ensures maximum supply to the crusher by compacting the seeds. The seeds are then crushed in a screw press. The design of the screw press crushing is such that it allows maximum space for the oil to come out. The length of the machine is 3055 mm, width is 1045 mm and height is 2145 mm. Alloy steel has been used in manufacturing the machine to increase Shri Kalpesh Gajjar, Mehsana (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator its life span. The advantages of Swastik oil extraction over conventional oil extraction are the following: (1) Conventional oil expellers are driven by 30 HP foot-mounted electric motor, using sheave and belt technology for crushing 6 to 10 tonnes oilseeds/day. The Swastik oil expeller employs 30 HP flange-mounted electric motor using transmission through planetary gears for crushing 18 to 28 metric tonnes oilseeds/day. (2) Conventional expellers having crushing capacity of 6 to 10 tonnes/day have 3,000 mm length, 1,500 mm width and 2,200 mm height, and requires a total 9.2 m x 3.8 m space. Swastik oil expeller with a capacity thrice that of conventional expellers requires only 10x4 m space. (3) A conventional expeller would require two labourers to manage it. Thus six labourers would be required for a total capacity of 18 metric tonnes/day. But three labourers are needed to operate Swastik oil expeller in shift. (4) In conventional oil expellers power transmission through sheaves and belt technology cause transmission losses and add to the cost of the machine. In Swastic direct transmission of power by the motor reduces transmission losses and reduces accessories. (5) In conventional oil expellers the machine needs mounting on a concrete foundation due to the vibrations caused by the belt.