 Then 250 g of this mixture is given to cow or buffalo along with fodder twice a day. Within a few days cattle starts yielding milk. Keywords: sabarkand, dukarkand, fodder The ingredients used to cure agalactia are: molasses (25 g), bulb of Costus speciosus (jamalakhuti) 200 g. bulbs of tholapadma 200 g and seed of Trigonella foenum-graceum (methi) 50 g. All these ingredients are boiled in 1 litre water and molasses are added to it to prepare a decoction. The water and the contents are administered orally, daily for 3 days. Keywords: jamalakhuti, tholapadma, methi, molasses Tribal women of Adi community have identified the ogok plant for increasing the cow milk and weight of pigs. Milking efficiency of local cow breed of Pasighat area of East Siang district (Arunachal Pradesh) is very poor (about 1-2 litres/time). To increase the milking efficiency, 5-6kg ogok grass is collected, which is perennial in nature found under plain ecology where soil is moist humid with good organic matter. This fodder is given as a Madurai (Tamil Nadu) 625 010 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Devrambhai Haribhai, Ganagarde, Jakhana Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati (Assam) Dr Ranjay K. Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3373 Use of wild banana and Colocasia with rice husk to increase the weight of pigs 3374 Practises followed in Andaman and Nicobar of Island for animal management supplement to the cow (thrice a day, i.e. morning, afternoon and evening time) as such without making into small pieces. By giving this fodder about 1 litre milk yield/time is increased. To increase the weight of pigs, only small tender parts of this grass is fed. Sometimes this may be supplemented by mixing husk and local banana after boiling. About 70- 80% cattle owners use this wisdom and it is prevalent among them since time immemorial. Keywords: ogok grass, pig, cow, milk efficiency, body weight To increase the body weight of pig, 2- 3 kg inner part of pseudostem (pith material) of newly grown wild banana and 1 -1 1/2 kg colocasia stems are collected, and are mixed with rice husk, and then boiled for 30 min. These all materials are mixed together and fed to the pig. This dose is given twice a day during morning and evening. This practice is very old and effective to increase the body weight of pig rapidly. Adi tribe of Pasighat areas of East Siang district (Arunachal Pradesh) are following this wisdom since age-old time.