 Score sheet for pain after application of ITK ointment and iodine over swelling of limb/joint at MASFSU Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Table 10. Score sheet for weight bearing in motion after application of ITK ointment and iodine ointment over swelling of limb/joint at MASFSU on 0 day in iodine ointment group and animals started weight bearing without any lameness (Table 9). Up to day 21, the animals were able to bear moderate weight and later on started full weight bearing. During motion the animal in group I had weight-bearing score 0.1, which became 0.8, 1.4±0.16, 2.1 ±0.18 and 2.9±0.20 respectively on days 7, 14, 21 and 30. It indicated that after day 21, animals were able to bear complete body weight on affected limb. In group II, the weight bearing score was 0.1 on day 0 and after day 21 they were able to bear complete body weight on the affected limb (Table 10). Average score for weight bearing in standing position on day 0 was 1.00 in both ITK and iodine ointment treatment groups, indicating that they were unable to bear weight by the affected limb. The score for weight bearing in standing position on day 30 became 2.5±0.2 and 2.8+1.3, respectively in ITK and Iodine ointment groups. It indicates that animal started bearing weight without showing any symptoms of lameness, and both the treatments are effective. The average score for weight bearing in motion was 0.1 both ITK and iodine ointment groups compared with 2.9±0.20 and 3.0±0.21 on day 30 respectively. These finding indicated that the application of both the ointments was effective and resulted in progressive improvement in bearing weight during motion (Table 11). Weight bearing depends upon extent of inflammation of the joint, flexor tendon, ligament, nerve, weight of the animals and the type of work extracted. If such animals are used for heavy work, they show signs of lameness. However, low-grade inflammation of the part could be treated successfully with ITK ointment. If ligaments or tendons are affected, more time is required for healing. Therefore weight bearing is delayed. CONCLUSION The ITK preparation consisting of geru 30 g, snail shell powder 50 g boiled in caster oil. Alua 20 g and kudru or sahajan gum 50 g and proprietary preparation—iodine ointment were found effective in the treatment of swelling of neck or shoulder and limb or joint in bullocks and bulls. There was decrease in swelling and pain scores of joints and limb at different time intervals after commencement of treatment using ITK. Of the 16 animals, 8 recovered completely, whereas in Contents VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY spite of reduction in pain and swelling, the rest of the animals did not show complete recovery, especially those having osteoarthritis and chronic capped elbow. The findings at both the centres validated the efficacy of ITK in treatment of swelling of shoulder and joints in animals.