 The Governing Body with the approval of the Presi- dent shall prescribe the procedure for recruitment, training, examinations, assessment, clearance of probation, confirmation and promotion of person- nel to and in the service of the Council. * 24. The Composition of Committees, Boards or other such bodies for promotion, selection, recruitment and other matters incidental thereto or connected therewith for various posts under the Council shall be as prescribed in consultation with the Chairman, Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board or any other member authorised by him and duty-approved by the President, ICAR. 25. The appointing authority for various categories of posts will be as specified in the relevant Service Rules, or in the Regulations to be framed in this regard duly approved by the Governing Body and the President. 26. The Director-General may on his own or on the advic.e of the Directors of the Research Institutes or Vice-Chancellors of the Agricultural Universities Tills issues with the approval of the Government of India, Department of Agricultural Research and Education vide their letter No. 4-1/87-Cdn dated llth July, 1988. 45 Grant of Fellowships Transitory Provision regarding Recruitment and Appointment to various posts invite an eminent Indian Scientiest for appointment in a suitable grade according to his qualifications and experience with the concurrence of the Agricultural Scientists' Recruitment Board and with the approval of the President. 27. The Director-General may offer a Fellowship to any highly qualified Scientist for a period not exceeding 3 years for conducting research in any scientific field. The quantum of fellowship and cognate matters shall be as prescribed by the Governing Body. 28. Notwithstanding anything contained in these bye- laws, the provisions of the existing Bye-laws 38 to 42 of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Bye-laws relating to recruitment and appointment to various posts in and under the Council shall continue to be in force till such time as the Recruitment Rules for various categories of posts in the Council as provided in Rule 73 of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Rules are framed and enforced. Applicability to permanent and temporary employees Applicability to Rules and Orders of Government of India •• (2) CCS(CCA), CCS (Conduct) Rules- Applicability of in. SERVICE CONDITIONS 29. These Bye-laws shall apply to permanent and temporary employees of the Society but shall not apply to any person employed on casual or daily- wage basis. 30. (a) Except in regard to matters for which specific provision has been made in the Rules, Bye- laws, Regulations or Orders made or issued by the Society, the service and financial Rules framed by the Government of India and such other Rules and Orders issued by the Government of India from time to time, shall apply mutatis mutandis to the employees of the Society in regard to matters concerning their service conditions.