 As a prevention, farmers in Saurastra add castor oil to the irrigation water. A tin is suspended over the water channel so that the oil drops into the running water drop by drop. Some farmers also believe that this helps to control of soil pests such as white ant, locally called ‘Talkidi’ (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Kheda (1992) 177 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 80 Use of wood ash to vegetable crops to supply nutrient and protect the crops It is common practice to sprinkle wood ash on vegetable crops especially growing in kitchen garden and to spread it around plants to ward off pests and to enhance nutrients status of the soil. To achieve this, a thick layer of ash is spread on the soil around plants and it is also sprinkled on foliage to protect it against a varieity of pests. This is because it is source of phosphorous for plants and it also acts as a physical poison usually causing abrasion of epicultucular waxes and thus exposing pests through dessication (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 81 Improvement in the yield of garlic, ginger,turmeric and other bulb crops by application of ash Fuelwood ash contains potassium (K) which improves the yield of crops like garlic, ginger, turmeric and other bulbus crops.Therefore, turmeric and other bulbus crops.Therefore, fuelwood ash has got widespread application in hill areas particularly in kitchen gardens (Kumaun hills, Uttar Pradesh). Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 82 Enhancing vegetable production by using mixture of kitchen ash and poultry manure The mixture of kitchen ash and poultry manure is applied to increase the production levels of vegetable crops such as tomato, brinjal, capsicum and cauliflower through optimal supply of nutrients and improving the soil physical properties (Nubra Valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 83 Application of tank silt to coconut gardens Coconut gardens are applied with 6 - 8 tonnes of tank silt/red earth/ha to improve nut size and yield. This improves soil properties and supply nutrients (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 84 Quality improvement in potato through application of kitchen ash and goat manure Application of kichen ash and goat manure mixture improves the potato size and quality on account of optimal supply of nutrients. This organic manure mixture improves the soil structure, porosity and waterholding capacity of the soil. In this way there is an overall improvement in physical, chemical and biological properties in terms of microbial population etc. that might contribute to the increased size of potatoes (Nubra Valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 178 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 85 Inducing fruit bearing in coconut At times coconut trees grow taller by the year but bear no fruits. Driving an iron nail into the trunk results in inducing fruits. An iron rod of about 0.