 Among all brinjal and WRC genotypes tested, high level of resistance was detected in WRC than cultivated varieties. Edible WRC of brinjal, Solanum sisymbriifolium (Man-1), S. incanum (MZBR- 15), S. macrocarapon (Sentiderm -MZSEN-1), S. underatum (EC 790349) and S. torvum (MZTO-1) and S. aethiopicum var. gilo (Samtrok MZSAM-1, Samtrok MZSAM-2, and MZSAM-3) showed high level of resistance (R) with the least wilt disease index. All cultivated varieties of brinjal, Pusa Bhairav, Pusa Shyamla, Pusa Uphar, Pusa Ankur, Pusa Purple Round were highly susceptible to Fom Megh-1 in the north eastern region and recorded the maximum disease index (DI) up to 100% at fourth week after inoculation. These results are important for breeding resistant rootstocks and cultivars that can be used to manage this endemic disease. Eco-friendly management practices for managing insect pests of cucumber: Insect pest infestation in cucurbits causes heavy losses through reduction in yield, lowering quality of produce and by increasing cost of production. The extent of losses can be up to 100%, depending on the cucurbit species and the season. Therefore, eight modules were evaluated for eco- friendly management of major biotic stresses in cucumber (variety: Malini) during kharif season under field condition. Among the bio-pesticide modules tested, combination of neem oil, fruit fly trap and Trichoderma based module was effective in reducing biotic stresses in cucumber. Module I: Neem oil spray + fruit fly trap + Trichoderma (seed treatment + foliar spray + soil drenching) showed effectiveness against red pumpkin beetle (0.64 beetle/plant) and fruit flies (14.24% fruit damage) in cucumber, whereas in control (1.8 beetles/plant) and fruit flies (36.5% fruit damage). Module I also recorded 39.03% increase in yield over control plots. Therefore, neem oil + fruit fly trap based module may be considered as an important component for eco-friendly management of insect pests in cucumber for promoting organic production of cucumber in Meghalaya. Package and practices of dragon fruit cultivation under Mizoram condition: Dragon fruit cultivation has a huge potential in Mizoram as the climatic condition is highly suitable for better yield and quality with a high market demand fetching a market price of ` 200–250/kg. The fruits start bearing after 15–20 months of planting and can continuously take yield up to 25–30 years with proper orchard management. Dragon fruit has huge neutraceutical properties and many health benefits and can control many diseases. It can therefore be considered as a super fruit, fruit of the future and super food for heart patient. The experiment was conducted to develop standard package to benefit farmers and other allied sectors in Mizoram.