 Inspite of great demand and opportunities for agricultural graduates in the above sectors, the agricultural graduates are unable to decide their career options even after four years of university education. Unlike medical and engineering disciplines, for which there is great awareness amongst the parents and students, the agricultural education has not received much attention due to lack of matching publicity and visibility. A useful compilation and guiding tool for the students seeking admission to various undergraduate programmes in Agriculture and Allied Sciences in AUs under the ICAR-AU system was published by Rana et al. (2018). Apart from students and parents, the information is useful for the educational institutions to guide the 10+2 pass-outs to choose agriculture as one of the career options. Currently, almost every graduate looks for a white-collar job preferably in public sector. With government resolve to phase out non-performing assets, job opportunities in government sector are shrinking faster than the number of graduates coming out of SAUs and other institutions. According to an estimate (IAMR, 2001), 43% of the graduates and 23% of postgraduates (M.Sc.) find it difficult to access gainful employment. Hence, in order to ward off rising unemployment on account of excessive dependence on public sector jobs, there is need to develop graduates/postgraduates who are not job seekers but job providers. In this pursuit, futuristic Agricultural Education will need to be enriched with real life subjects and their delivery through project work rather than through mere classroom lecture alone. Although the recently revised curricula and syllabi of UG and PG programmes have to some extent addressed these issues, still there is need for reorienting them to address stakeholders’ concerns and needs (NAEP Project Document). “A fundamental change is needed in the way we think about education’s role in global development, because it has a catalytic impact on the well-being of individuals and the future of our planet. ... Now, more than ever, education has a responsibility to be in gear with 21st century challenges and aspirations, and foster the right types of values and skills that will lead to sustainable and inclusive growth, and peaceful co-existence.” (Irina Bokova, Director- General of UNESCO). Education (SDG-4), essential to achieve all the sustainable development goals, has its own dedicated Goal, which aims to “ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning opportunities for all.