 I am extremely happy to know that Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) led National Agricultural Research System (NARS) has developed 87 biofortified varieties of cereals, millets, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits through plant breeding approach. I am sure that these varieties would contribute to nation’s food and nutritional security more effectively. The bulletin entitled ‘Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition’ would help in their popularization. My heartiest congratulations to all the developers of these biofortified cultivars. (SHOBHA KARANDLAJE) MESSAGE 540  N utrition plays central role in growth and development of healthy mind and body. We are committed to providing a better and sustainable future for all the citizens through nutrition and food security. Our aim is to ensure healthy lives and promote well-being of people of all ages through nutritious food. It has been estimated that alleviating malnutrition is one of the most cost-effective measures, with every $1 invested in proven nutrition programme offering benefits worth $16. ICAR has developed 87 biofortified cultivars in 16 crops that can be integrated into the food chain to enable better health of human and animal populations. Of these, 48 cultivars are multi- nutrient-dense in nature with two or more traits combined in a single genotype. Dedication of biofortified crop cultivars on October 16, 2020 (World Food Day) and September 28, 2021, respectively by the Hon’ble Prime Minister to the nation is a testimony to the commitment of the country and of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) towards fulfilling country’s food and nutrition security. This bulletin entitled, “Biofortified Varieties: Sustainable Way to Alleviate Malnutrition” highlights the yield potential along with respective nutritional characteristics of the varieties for propagation and use in the country. I do hope that the information contained in this bulletin will be of immense use towards building a malnutrition free India. (T. MOHAPATRA) Dated: 24 January, 2022 New Delhi FOREWORD  Contents Page No.