17 ha prior to project) and a net profit of ` 20,560. On an average, 174 kg vegetables were harvested from the trellis system around ponds and pond bunds with a monthly income of ` 6,419 (pond area ranging from 0.08 to 0.22 ha). Women friendly gill nets introduced to facilitate regular biweekly harvesting of small indigenous fishes resulted in a harvest of 200– 750 g/15 days which was entirely used for home consumption. A study was conducted to study the effect of supplementary feeding on production performance of Vanaraja laying hens and income of farm women reared under extensive system of production. Supplementary feeding @ 35 g/bird/day during 16-40 weeks of age resulted in significantly higher egg production and egg size. Calculating the feed cost at ` 20/kg, the net return was higher by ` 1,790 per beneficiary (n=20) due to supplementary feeding. A family poultry production model was developed for enhancing income and improving nutrition security of farm families through working with a cluster of 40 farm families in Chanrapada and Parichanrapada villages of Nimapada block of Puri district, Odisha. Drudgery and vulnerability: The existing technologies related to fish processing developed by ICAR and other national institutions were documented and also assessed the gender based drudgery prone activities, testing the solution through available/ refined technologies in fish processing. Drudgery experienced by women was assessed on a 5 point scale, with the highest score given to drudgery experience during marketing of fish (28.01). Two model prototypes of disc ridger based on the anthropometry and strength of farm women were developed and tested. As a part of livelihood improvement of tribal farm women through secondary agriculture, technological interventions in the processing of ragi, mango, tomato and cashew nut was given to tribal women of Ganjam district and a schematic model for establishing small scale enterprise was developed. Under the collaborative project of ICAR-CIWA and Mahindra and Mahindra, custom hiring centre was set up by the cluster or village level organization in 42 villages in districts Mayurbhanj and Koraput. On-farm skill demonstration through resource farmers, refresher trainings at cluster level, interactive session with scientists, exposure visits and linkage with service/ repair centres was imparted by ICAR-CIWA. Drudgery reducing tool kits were distributed to 360 women farmers and effectiveness was also studied. Under AICRP on Ergonomics and Safety in Agriculture, a pre- and post- perception study, physiological test and postural analysis was done for newly developed harvest bag. Performance evaluation and economic analysis of the women friendly power operated groundnut stripper-cum-decorticator showed stripping output capacity of 12.12 kg/h, reduction in stripping cost of ` 0.