 The recognition that a considerable initial investment may discourage numerous farmers from adopting innovative solutions is crucial, given that they frequently operate with limited financial re­ sources. This suggests that in order to promote broader technology adoption and mitigate this obstacle, it may be necessary to implement targeted financial support mechanisms or subsidies. This figure high­ lights the crucial issue of farmers’ lack of information and awareness about modern technologies. Without understanding, farmers may distrust new practices and be hesitant to adopt them. Effective communication, training, and agricultural extension services are needed to solve this problem. This highlights the need for extensive awareness efforts and instructional programs to equip farmers with the proper knowledge. To know the current scenario, an attempt has been made to analyze the rate of non-adoption of newly emerged technology based on the major crop reported by the respondents. Detailed information is given in (Table 5). The data given shows in Table 5 that drone technology, hy­ droponics, and vertical farming are completely unadopted across all five crops: cotton, peanut, wheat, maize, and soybean. Examining the fea­ tures of each crop and the technologies linked with it reveals potential contributors to this situation. Drone technology, with its capabilities for field monitoring, spraying, including data collection, has the potential to benefit all five crops. However, its high initial cost and regulatory bar­ riers may prevent widespread use, particularly for crops with low profit margins. Furthermore, its efficacy may be diminished in crops with dense canopies, such as cotton and peanuts. Although it provides precise control over nutrient intake and water utilisation, hydroponics has acceptance problems due to infrastructure needs, water scarcity in some areas, and labor intensity when compared to conventional soil-based agriculture. Despite its benefits in terms of space use and resource effi­ ciency, vertical farming faces acceptance challenges due to high estab­ lishment costs, potential constraints in market demand for vertically grown products, and the technical skills necessary to manage its systems. From (Table 5) we can say that the non-adoption of newly emerged technology was reported 100 % by the farmers. However, technology like drones, hydroponics, and vertical farming has taken the most focus of farmers, but still, non-adoption exists; that shows some serious factors are restraining farmers from adopting them, which are discussed in the first objective. The technology farmers are primarily interested in is hydroponics, as it uses resources efficiently like space, water, fertilizer etc [30]. The second most attractive technology was drone technology by farmers, which can be helpful for spraying on standing crops. Traditional manual spraying was tedious and could not be performed in an area humans could not reach.