 This service also helps food companies procure pesticide residue free or IPM agriculture-produce for which they pay good incentives to the farmers. BharatRohan also provides seed companies with valuable aerial intelligence data for their Hybrid Evaluation Trials, besides serving agri-chemical companies for their product testing experiments toxicity studies, evaluation trials and data compilation for approvals, geography and bio-efficacy studies. Their technology and proprietary algorithms are capable of gathering miniscule colour changes occurring in the plants due to different biochemical changes occurring in different phenological conditions. The company is serving more than 2,000 farmers directly across Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Telangana, Karnataka and Maharashtra. Also, serving one of the biggest agrichemical companies, seed companies and food companies in India. PPPPProject 1: roject 1: roject 1: roject 1: roject 1: Peppermint Cropping System in Barabanki: BharatRohan is working on Mentha cropping system which is a very significant revenue source. The cropping system involves Mentha, paddy and potato crop. Bharat Rohan built spectral libraries in association with CSIR-Central Institute of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants, Lucknow. These libraries are correlated with and applied on Drone/UAV based Hyperspectral Data acquired from farmers field using various proprietary unmixing models. CSIR- CIMAP, also provides their phenomenal support in creating precision agriculture advisories for the local farmers for Aromatic Crops. BharatRohan’s Crop AssureTM services help peppermint farmers save INR. 3,620 per acre by precisely applying the agriculture inputs where they were required. Moreover, the productivity of Peppermint oil increased from 50 kg per acre to 70 kg per acre. The company provides unprecedented advisory services through a proprietary ICT Platform, diagnose pest attacks, disease outbreaks in the crops of interest and suggest control methods, promote use of sustainable precision agriculture practices, and acquire, process and analyse farm level precision agriculture data and support farmers in implementation of precision agriculture advisory from the stage of sowing to the harvesting. PPPPProject 2 roject 2 roject 2 roject 2 roject 2: Serving seed companies with aerial intelligence for Hybrid Evaluation Trials (HETs) and High-throughput Phenotyping Experiments. Seed companies carry out (HETs) and High-throughput Phenotyping to understand various genetic traits of the newly developed varieties. These experiments also help them in selecting the best variety to be released for farmer use. Companies spend a lot of manpower in collecting Crop Height Information which is often imprecise and bound to be biased. Indian Farming January 2020 52 Indian agtech in 2017 reached a new peak with more than 600 start-ups working for solving problems of Indian agriculture (AgriUdaan Experience of ICAR_NAARM).