 We asked farmers to detail the steps they had taken to protect themselves against the vagaries of climate change, as well as ways in which they have adapted their practices. Their responses were much broader in focus, covering practices that may not directly relate to climate change adaptation, but more toward reducing uncertainty in incomes and livelihoods. Many such adaptation strategies were under­ taken by farmers at an individual level, based on their own experiences of climate shocks in the recent past and in consultation with larger farmers in the village. The most dominant adaptation strategy was to increase chemical pesticide use to counter the increase in pest attacks and new pests in the region. Some farmers reported using masks and gloves for safety while spraying pesticides. While men favored and made decisions about chemical pesticide use, women were more aware of natural pesticides, given their role in the preparation of natural alternatives to chemical fertilizers. Diversifying from monocropping to multicropping systems, as well as diversifying from food to cash crops and vice versa, were common adaptation strategies mentioned by both men and women. Many now prefer to grow cotton (over maize and vegetables) because it is less likely to be attacked by pests. Farmers prefer short-duration crops such as sorghum, castor, potato, and even flowers to minimize the risks of crop loss. Farmers are increasingly relying on horticulture, seen as more profitable and less risky. Farmers in Kutch and Surendranagar districts are now growing pomegranates and dates. The need to diversify sources of income by moving into non-agriculture-based employment or men migrating while women continued to manage farms was high­ lighted as an important adaptation strategy. Other important strategies included: opting for more resistant and hybrid seed varieties that require less water, take less time to mature, grow faster, and are resistant to heat; increasingly using machines and modern equipment; constructing watershed structures and rainwater harvesting to prepare for water scarcity; practicing crop rotation to improve soil quality; harvesting early due to climate warnings; border (or trap) cropping to protect main crops from pests; and increased monitoring of crops to check for growth, quality, diseases, and water and fertilizer requirement. Soil testing as an adaptation strategy was mentioned by some farmers to understand and improve the nutrient composition of the soil and seek recommendations for suitable crops based on soil condition. However, more farmers reported facing chal­ lenges in accessing soil-testing facilities. It can be inferred that several gaps need to be addressed to encourage farmers to carry out soil testing, including the location of centers, application process, correct approach for soil testing, interpretation of results, and recommended measures for treatment or changes in agricultural practices.