 Ramalingam 2/27 Annanagar Street, Koppu, Kuzhumani, Tiruchirapalli (Tamil Nadu) 2517 Use of vellai kundumani seeds with boiled pearl millet to drop retained placenta after delivery Sometimes the placenta of animal is not dropped naturally after calving. To solve this problem, farmers give 2-3 seeds of vellai kundumani with boiled Shri M. Lawarance 808, Housing unit, Rajagopalapuram, Pudukottai (Tamil Nadu) 622 003  pearlmillet to the animal. Farmers of Rajagopalapuram village in Tamil Nadu are using this practice since 15 years. Keywords: vellai kundumani, boiled pearlmillet, retained placenta 2537 Use of leaves of bhindi (Abelmoscus esculentus) for removing retained placenta Farmers of Thachakudi village are using since long time the feeding of green leaves of bhindi (Abelmoscus esculentus) to the animal for removing retained placenta during delivery. Keywords: bhindi, green leaf, retained placenta Shri M. Kamraj S/o V. Manikam, Thachakudi, Kuzhumani (Tamil Nadu) 639 103 2592 Treatment for expulsion of placenta After calving, usually the placenta drops naturally. In some cases placenta is retained in the body of the animal, which may cause poisoning as it is injurious to health. Villagers practise some of the treatments for easily dropping of placenta. The following treatments are most effective for this problem. a) Combination of hingota (Balanites roxburghii), bamboo stick (Dandrocalamus strictus) and chirmi (Abrus prekatirius): hingota (3 fruits for buffalo and cow and 1 fruit for goat), bamboo stick(50 g for buffalo, cow and goat) and chirmi (1 piece for buffalo and cow, and ½ piece for goat) are taken. Hingota fruit should be dried and its skin (rind) should be removed. Bamboo should be 4-5 years old, exposed to all types of weather conditions. It is cut into small pieces and crushed. Chirmi is crushed to powder form. About ½ litre of water is taken and all the materials are added into it according to the dose specified for each type of animal. It is boiled. The decoction is cooled and fed to animal. Placenta will automatically be expelled within 4-5 hours. b) Combination of hingota and bamboo sticks: Hingota (5 fruits for buffalo and cow and 1 fruit for goat) and bamboo stick (50 g each for buffalo, cow and goat) are taken. Decoction of hingota fruit and bamboo sticks is prepared in ½ Shri Raju Ram S/o Shri Harji Ram, Gangana, Borananda Jodhpur (Rajasthan) 342 003  litre water and it is fed to the animal. Placenta will automatically be expelled within 4-5 hours. c) Hingota: 12 fruits for buffalo, 10 fruits for cow and 1-2 fruits for goat are taken. Decoction of hingota fruit is prepared in water as stated above and fed to the animal. Placenta will automatically drop within 4-5 hours. d) Bamboo sticks: 300 g for buffalo, 250 g for cow and 100 g for goat are taken. Decoction is prepared in water as stated above and fed to the animal. Placenta will drop automatically within 4-5 hr.