05% red chili extract had microbiologically safe and organoleptically acceptable shelf- DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 128 life of 14 and 28 days under refrigerated (5 ± 1ºC) and frozen (–18ºC) conditions, respectively. Determination of BHC and DDT residues in spent hen tissues: The BHC level in muscle of spent hen carcass ranged from 0.1–0.3 ppm while in liver and adipose tissue it was 0.1–0.2 ppm and 0.5–1.2 ppm, respectively. Adipose fat was store house of BHC. The level of DDT was recorded to be 0.1–0.2 ppm in muscle and liver while it was higher (0.4–2.1 ppm) in fat tissue. BHC was also higher in adipose fat (68%) followed by muscle (50%) and liver (34%). On the other hand, DDT occurred at higher rate in all tissues compared to BHC. WOOL AND WOOL PRODUCTS TECHNOLOGY Processing Technology of Hand-made Felts Hand-made non-woven felted products were developed using camel wool, coarse sheep wool and their blends. The product thickness ranged from 2 to 5 mm and area density 300 g to 500 g/sq. m. The products have unique feature of natural colour, warmth, and strength.These can find application in floor coverings, jackets, etc. Embroidery and colour designing through patchwork would enhance the quality of felt. Light Weight Hand-made Felts These felts were prepared by using Angora hair in blends with fine quality sheep wool and have area density of approximately 100 to 200 g/sq. m. These products have unique whiteness, and can be dyed with natural and synthetic dyes. EQUINE AND CAMEL HAIR BLENDS WITH WOOL Indian camel and equine hairs are having unique characteristic of natural colours ranging from light to dark brown, grey and light black. However, the fibres are coarse. The fibre quality of fineness and stiffness changes with the age of the animal, i.e., younger animal produces better quality fibres. These hairs are not commercially utilized and there is no commercial marketing centre. To explore the possibility to utilize fibres in small and medium sector enterprises, it was tried to blend colour camel hair and equine hair with white fine wool in different proportion to obtain various shade ranges, i.e., from light grey to dark grey and brownish colours. These blends were processed on standard woolen spinning system into yarn linear density of 2 to 4 Nm. The furnishing fabrics having weight per sq. metre of 300 to 400 g/sq. metre were developed on handlooms. The various camel and equine blended products, which have exclusive natural colour resistant to fading on washing and sun exposure and also have higher drape and attractiveness over the traditional furnishing fabrics which are generally dyed. Moreover, these hair-blended products are low cost and unique fire extinguishing property. Exploitation of these non-conventional hairs for commercial products will enhance the marketability of fibre and enhance the income of hair producers.