 Increased branching results in more fruiting shoots in young trees and encourages precocity which is pre-requisite for high density planting system. Thus, after 2-3 years, the entire canopy develops. The ‘Amrapali’ forming an uneven or irregular canopy where as ‘Ambika’, ‘Arunika’, and ‘Dashehari’ forming a compact, semi-spherical canopy. Pruning The tree under high density attains optimum canopy shape and size within 3-4 years and the canopy expansion is slowed down when bearing starts. Pruning strategies for mango is based on requirements of the tree. Annual pruning in mango is done for flowering management, Five years old mango variety Amrapali in flowering Three years old Arunika in blooming Five years old mango variety Dashehari in flowering Five years old Amrapali laden with fruits Indian Horticulture 20 and efficient technology to supply precise amount of water directly to root zone by saving of water through percolation and seepage losses. The water requirement in mango is determined by using pan evaporation, pan coefficient, crop factor, wetted area, and plant spacing. The water requirement is assessed on daily basis and applied through drip on alternate day. During the rainy season (June to September), rain provides 30-40% of total crop water requirements, whereas from October to May crops require 60-70% irrigation water for better productivity and quality. Drip irrigation is the best method for water management in mango when there is a water shortage. Yield The mango under high density planting system starts bearing 2nd year onward; however, good fruiting takes place in 3rd year onwards. In Amrapali, 3.5 to 14.0 kg fruits/tree (5.6 to 22.40 t/ha) were harvested after 3 to 5 years. Dashehari bears good fruits at 5×5 m spacing and 6-7 t/ha fruits in 5th year, while in traditional spacing (10×10 m), 2-3 t/ha yield was recorded. Average fruit weight recorded was about 220-260 g in Amrapali and Dashehari. Mango orcharding under high density planting is more profitable, although it requires more initial investment, which is offset by early production. Since most of the canopy is close to the main trunk hence, more fruit is produced. Because of the controlled canopy growth, HDP is very easy to care for and upkeep. After 4-6 years, HDP yields are 10-12 times higher than standard spacing. For further interaction, please write to: S Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Kakori, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 227 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com control tree size; reshaping of the trees to smaller and more manageable size. Pinching and tip pruning force the formation of lateral shoots from dormant lateral stem buds. Through frequent pruning of young trees, tip pruning in mango helps to shorten the juvenility and accelerate branching of lateral branches, resulting in a dense spreading canopy that flower 1-2 years earlier than conventional plantations.