 Agency responsible for maintaining breeder seed Name of the institute/organization/agency responsible for maintanence of the breeder seed of variety/parental line of hybrid 19. Quantity of the breeder seed in stock (kg) Quantities (kg) of available seeds with reference to variety, hybrid, inbred/A/B/R lines of the hybrid are to be indicated clearly. 20. Information on acceptability of the variety by farmers/ consumers/ industry Any information on such aspects can be given. 21. Specific recommendations, if any, for seed production (e.g. staggered sowing, planting ratio of parental lines of hybrids in foundation and certified seeds production, probable areas of seed production) The seed production technology and specific requirements should be mentioned clearly along with the proposal. With respect to seed production of hybrid, the staggered sowing of parental lines, if required, should also be clearly indicated. The planting ratio of male and female parents in the seed production plots should be indicated. In addition, if there are some other precautions needed, they are to be mentioned clearly. The probable areas of seed production need to be given. 22. Vivid presentation (field view, close-up of a single plant and a seed/economic parts) The proposal should invariably have coloured pictures with a clear field view of the variety, a close-up of a single plant and seeds/economic parts. Photograph of other plant parts which may help in identification of varieties can also be given. The cover page of the proposal should also have a coloured photograph of the variety and should be well-designed. 23. Whether recommended by any workshop, seminar, conference, state seed committee etc. Details of workshop/ conference/ seminar/ or state variety release committee be given, which recommended the variety for release. 110 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS 24. If so, its recommendations with specific justifications for release of the proposed variety The specific recommendations of the workshop/conference/state variety release committee along with the documents should be attached. 25. Specific area of its adaptation The zones and states for which variety is proposed 26. Acknowledgement of the submission of the seed sample of variety/hybrid/inbred/ A, B and R lines of the hybrid from the NBPGR and IC numbers The acknowledgement certificate issued by the NBPGR providing details of the IC number with respect to variety, hybrid and parental lines of hybrids should be part of the proposal 27. Package of practices along with the attainable yield levels A note on the package of practices of crop with respect to the variety needs to be provided, highlighting particularly specific requirements of the variety to realize its attainable yield levels. 28. Others • One-page ‘executive summary’ of the proposal may be provided in the beginning, highlighting specific features of the variety/hybrid.