 As the relationship between irrigation intensity and daily incomes is – in theory – non-linear, we used a non-parametric random forest model to estimate the shape of average yield and daily incomes for different irrigation frequencies within our dataset (Hastie and Tibshirani, 1990; Roberts, 2004; Yee and Mitchell, 1991). Various factors (e.g. soil types, varieties, fertilizer rates etc.) may influence how farms with lower irri­ gation frequencies respond to increasing their levels of irrigation. Nevertheless, due to its large size our dataset covers many variations across these factors including across irrigation frequencies. The average yield and income values for high irrigation frequencies thus serves as a reasonable baseline for these systems. Given that our dataset does contain some of the key contributing factors, we investigated their impact by including them in the random forest regressions to calculate partial dependency plots (Lundberg and Lee, 2017; Yang, 2021) that account for a large number of predictors including soil and drainage class, education, fertilizer rate, share of crops sold, landholding size, weeding times, abiotic and biotic stress occurrence, crop duration, market distance, variety type, planting date, plot ownership, timeliness of input availability, market distance, and irrigation sources. The yield prediction model was fit with the fast ranger implementation of random forest in R (Wright and Ziegler, 2017) to overcome performance issues with the original implementation (Liaw and Wiener, 2002). The model was run with 500 trees and mtry set to the square root of the number of variables. This model showed that benefits of irrigation varied regionally and with other factors and co-variates such as soil type, crop types, input intensity, and farmers’ education (which lie outside the scope of this paper). However, as expected due to the large size of the dataset, the sign and magnitude of yield and income levels between rainfed and fully irrigated systems were confirmed even when other factors and cova­ riates were accounted for (see Section 3.2). Importantly, farm size remained the major governing variable for daily incomes. In addition, studies regarding the efficiencies and farm size – productivity dynamics among small farms (Deininger et al., 2017; Paul and Githinji, 2018), indicate a certain degree of endogeneity may affect causal inference analytics on the impact of irrigation on farm incomes and need to be carefully considered in future studies. In the Supplementary materials, we provide exploratory overviews of (i) partial effects estimates of GAM models for irrigation frequency and FDPIs across IBI groups and (ii) smoothing splines for estimated FDPI across irrigation levels for different crop type and soil type combinations to provide interested readers further details.