 Orchard preparation for inter-cropping If we wish to grow intercrops in a mango orchard, first of all, efforts are made to level the orchard area by ploughing and levelling the field. Provision of drainage by making drainage lines is a must for the success of intercrops as water stagnation and high humidity lead to the incidence of various diseases, resulting in a huge loss to the farmers. Well rotten farm yard manure @ 25 to 30 MT/hectare should be applied invariably before sowing of any tuber crops like turmeric, elephant foot yam during summer. FYM is also applied to standing crops before weeding and earthing them during the rainy season. As stated earlier, mid-aged trees are pruned in such a way that they are centrally opened to facilitate sufficient solar radiation for the success of both the main crop as well as the intercrop. While sowing or planting, care is taken to avoid any sowing or planting in the tree basin area up to 2-2.5 m away from and around the tree trunk. A basin is prepared around the tree trunk for irrigation and other purposes. Thus, approximately 70-80% area of the orchard is available for intercropping depending upon the age of orchard. The cultivation practices for these crops are given below. Elephant foot yam crop harvest from mango orchard July–August 2021 25 Growing turmeric (Curcuma longa L.) in a mango orchard Turmeric has immense potential for growing as an intercrop in mango orchards as it tolerates shade to a great extent. Sandy loam soil is considered the best as it facilitates the growth of the rhizomes. Turmeric varieties, viz. Rajendra Sonia, Narendra Turmeric-1, Narendra Turmeric-2, Narendra Turmeric-3, are popular in Uttar Pradesh. Other varieties, like Suvarna, Suguna, Sudarsana, IISR Prabha, IISR Prathibha, IISR Alleppey Supreme and IISR Kedaram from ICAR-IISR, Kozhikode, Kerala; Co-1, BSR-1, BSR-2 from TNAU, Coimbatore; Roma, Suroma, Ranga, Rasmi and Surangi from OUAT, Odisha; Mega Turmeric-1 from ICAR Complex, NEH region Meghalaya; Kanti, Sohba, Sona and Varna from KAU, Thrissur and Sugandham from Sardarmkrushinagar Dantiwada Agriculture University, Jagudan have also been recommended for cultivation in different parts of the country. Varieties recommended for the region should only be selected for intercropping. The soil is brought to a fine tilth by ploughing and planking. Fertilizers should be applied based on soil test. In general, a dose of 100-120 kg nitrogen, 60 kg phosphorus and 60 kg potash is sufficient for one hectare of orchard area. Full dose of phosphorus, potash and half dose of nitrogen is given as basal dose at the time of sowing while rest nitrogen is applied as top dressing in two split doses, first at 35-40 days and second 75-90 days after sowing. Planting should be done in orchard by making furrows and ridges. Well developed, healthy, disease free, split mother or finger rhizomes are used for planting.