 The tiny newly hatched nymphs climb up the tree shortly after hatching. They begin sucking the sap of delicate plant parts after crawling up the tree. IPM strategy yy Polythene (400 gauge) bands of 25 cm width around the tree trunk in November and December have been found to be an effective barrier to stop the ascent of nymphs to the trees. yy The entomogenous fungus Beauveria bassiana has been found to be an effective bio-agent in controlling the nymphs of the mealybug. yy The flooding of orchards with water in October kills the eggs and ploughing the orchards in November exposes the eggs to the sun’s heat. yy If nymphs ascend on the tree, spray malathion 50 EC (0.075 %). Inflorescence midge (Procontarinia mangiferae and Erosomyia indica Grover) The midge damages crops in three stages. The first attack occurs when the floral buds burst, followed by fruit set and tender new leaves. The most destructive attack is the first, which destroys the entire inflorescence before flowering and fruiting. The flies deposit their eggs on the inflorescence. The minute maggots penetrate the tender Mealybug attack on different parts of mango Inflorescence midge attack on inflorescence, fruits, and leaves of mango parts and feed on them after hatching. The floral parts eventually dry and fall off. Pupation occurs when the mature larvae drop down into the soil. Between January and March, there are three to four overlapping generations of the pest. When the weather becomes unfavourable, the mature larvae go into diapause in the soil rather than pupating. They end their diapause in January of the following year. IPM strategy yy Because the larvae pupate in the soil, ploughing the orchards exposes both pupating and diapausing larvae to the sun's heat, killing them. yy Spraying of 0.045% Dimethoate at the bud burst stage of the inflorescence has been found effective in controlling the pest population. Fruit flies (Bactrocera dorsalis Hendel and B. zonata) The oriental fruit fly is one of the most serious pests of mango in the country, causing problems with fresh fruit exports. The most common fruit flies are Bactrocera dorsalis and B. zonata. The female uses its pointed ovipositor to puncture the outer wall of mature fruits and insert eggs in small clusters inside the mesocarp of maturing fruits. After hatching, the larva feeds on the pulp of the fruit, which appears normal from the outside but eventually drops down. The mature maggots drop into the soil to pupate. The emergence of fruit flies begins in April, with the highest population recorded between May and July, which coincides with fruit maturity. July–August 2021 43 IPM strategy yy The soil is raked around and below the trees to a depth of 6 cm twice – Two weeks after the fruit reaches maturity and three weeks later. yy Ploughing may be done in the winter.