 Common name: Chebulic myrobalan Family: Combretaceae Vernacular name: Silikha (Assamese) Time of flowering: March – April Period of fruit availability: November – January Image of fruit Name of the fruit species Syzygium jambos Alston. Common name: Myrtaceae Family: Rose apple Vernacular name: Bogi Jamu (Assamese) Time of flowering: Feb. – March Period of fruit availability: May – June Nephelium lappaceum Linn. Common name: Wild rambutan Family: Sapindaceae Vernacular name: Tader (Adi) Time of flowering: February Period of fruit availability: April – May Calamus tenuis Roxb. Common name: Cane fruit Family: Arecaceae Vernacular name: Jeying (Adi); Heiri (Meitei) Time of flowering: Dec. – January Period of fruit availability: April – May Haematocarpus validus (Miers.) Bakh. ex F. Forman Common name: Blood fruit Family: Menispermaceae Vernacular name: Theichhungsen (Mizo) Time of flowering: Dec. – January Period of fruit availability: June – August Viburnum foetidum Wall. Common name: Stinking viburnum Family: Caprifoliaceae Vernacular name: Yolyu (Apatani) Time of flowering: June – July Period of fruit availability: September – October Castanopsis hystrix J. D. Hooker & Thomson ex A. de Candolle. Common name: Chest nut Family: Fagaceae Vernacular name: Amke (Adi) Time of flowering: October Period of fruit availability: August – September in the seasonality chart figure. List of underutilized fruit species sampled from various locations of the region with vernacular names of various ethnic communities have been given to each species in the table along with photographs to elaborate the same. Underutilized fruit species recreate an important role in mitigating hunger through diet diversification as they are reservoirs of minerals, vitamins, carbohydrates, proteins, antioxidants and also it can be considered as risk aversion and a resilient crop towards climate change owing to its wider phenological and soil adaptability in this difficult region. However, with rapid land transformation, growing connectivity, deforestation due to uncontrolled Jhum, wood felling, etc. regrettably, resulted in the decline and loss of these species, henceforth facing rarity. Several studies regarding these fruit species have been highlighted in different aspects nevertheless most of the studies were in bits and pieces. Therefore, a small effort on developing a seasonality chart will create a catalogue of wild underutilized fruits which need to be consumed during a certain season. Further, promoting the use of underutilized fruit species needs to be achieved by highlighting their importance in their current production areas as well as exploiting further opportunities to extend their production and consumption as most of these fruit species are preferred in the region for their delightful taste, medicinal value and being a source of food and nutrition which betokens the natural essence of these wild underutilized fruit species.