 1977 World Bank's Training & Visiting (T&V) program was scaled up to several states. T&V, agriculture extension was expected to act as a 'transmission belt' between agricultural research centres and farmers by recruiting, training and deploying a large and dedicated cadre of technical workers with formal training in agriculture technology. The T&V based agriculture extension system (AES) played a key role in ensuring the success of the Green Revolution in several regions of the country. While the focus of the early AES was on the demonstration of high yielding varieties of seeds and agronomic practices and training farmers in adopting the same, it also played a major role in ensuring timely availability of inputs such as seeds, fertilizers and agricultural chemicals. 1998 Indian Government, with the support of the World Bank, introduced the Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) under the Innovation in Technology Dissemination (ITD) component of Agriculture Extension System in India: A Meta-analysis 477 the National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP). It was first introduced in 28 districts in seven states from 1998 to 2003 under the guidance of MANAGE (National Institute of Agricultural Extension Management). The main goal of ATMA was to bring together different agencies involved in extension activities on one platform. 2014-15 The National Mission on Agriculture Extension and Technology (NMAET) was launched by the Department of Agriculture and Farmers' Welfare (DACFW) in 2014-15 and take a holistic view of extension by embedding components for technical support and training in four major sub-schemes. It aims to make the system farmer-driven and accountable by restructuring and strengthening existing agriculture extension program to enable the delivery of technology and to improve the current agronomic practices of farmers. NMAET consists of 4 Sub Missions:  Sub Mission on Agricultural Extension (SMAE)  Sub-Mission on Seed and Planting Material (SMSP)  Sub Mission on Agricultural Mechanization (SMAM)  Sub Mission on Plant Protection and Plant Quarantine (SMPP) Source: Gulati et al. (2018) CONCLUSION 1. Over the years the understaffed extension departments are burdened with non-extension works such as the distribution of subsidies and inputs, by ignoring core extension activities. Therefore, considering the limited number of extension personnel’s, the government need to provide enabling environment to private and civil society extension service providers to promote multiple channels as public extension alone cannot meet the growing service needs of the farmers. 2. Currently the extension personal are less than the recommended ratio of 1:750 at a national level.