 Internet connection Device The IoT system is connected via Wi-Fi for uploading data in the cloud system Cloud system Device All the water quality data are stored in the cloud system for monitoring and other research purpose. Web-Interface Device A web-interface was developed to display the real-time water quality data and provide access to download the data in excel format. Power supply system Device The power supply system can be electric or solar powered for operating the aerator as well as the IoT system. Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Connection scenario (sender to receiver) Network type (WAN, MAN , LAN, PAN) -Mobile Technology (GSM, 2G, 3G, LTE, WiFi, (CDMA), -Fixed line broadband. Networks should have Ipv6 or dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability. DO Monitoring System to Cloud Platform (Thingspeak) (Internet access) Wi-Fi Client mode (DO system) to any Wi-Fi enable Access point (AP) with internet. wireless local-area network (WLAN) Currently use Fixed line broadband with Wi-Fi Enable access point (AP). Possible any Wi-Fi Enabled 2G, 3G,4G,5G Dongle/Router Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 7. Appendix Appendix 1: Actor / Business role S No Actor Business role 1 Fish farm Farm where fishes are grown. The developed DO system is deployed. It reads the DO data from the sensor, transferred the 2 loT based DO monitoring data to the cloud, signals the aerator for start system functioning when needed. The system can monitor and control the DO level in real-time with acceptable range. This helps to maintain the good water quality and promote fish growth. Appendix 2: Actor role Actor name Actor type Role description DO sensor Device It senses the DO and temperature of the water area loT system Device It is the main processor system, reads the DO data from (Micro- the sensor, transferred the data to the cloud, signals controller) the aerator for start functioning when needed. Aerator Device Its task is to oxygenate the water column, or portions of the water column, thereby preventing the occurrence of low-DO conditions. Internet Device The loT system is connected via Wi-Fi for uploading connection data in the cloud system Cloud system Device All the water quality data are stored in the cloud system for monitoring and other research purpose. Web-Interface Device A web-interface was developed to display the real-time water quality data and provide access to download the data in excel format. Power supply Device The power supply system can be electric or solar system powered for operating the aerator as well as the loT system. Appendix 3: Communications technologies Scenario Communication network Technologies Connection scenario (sender to receiver) Network type (WAN, MAN, LAN, PAN) -Mobile Technology (GSM, 2G, 3G, LTE, WiFi, (CDMA), -Fixed line broadband. Networks should have Ipv6 or dual stack (IPv4 and IPv6) capability.