 Keywords: balibhainso, dysentery Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot no 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2711 Use of aak (Calotropis gigantea) for cure of sterility Villagers of Chandaka of Khurda district in Orissa are using this age-old treatment. In this treatment, fresh root juice of aak (Calotropis gigantea) is given orally on empty stomach for 3 days during mensuration to cure sterility. Keywords: sterility, juice, aak Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot No. 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2673 Use of walnut leaves and barks for teeth and gum People of Rajouri district in Jammu & Kashmir use fresh leaves of walnut tree for cleaning of teeth. The bark of this tree is used for the same purpose as well as for the Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of  colouration of leather. It is believed that if the teeth are cleaned the leaves or bark of walnut tree regularly, it become germ-free as the leaves of walnut tree have germicidal property. Keywords: walnut leaves and bark, teeth and gum, germicidal property. Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2670 Use of bamboo leaves for treatment of pyrrhoea In rural area people are less aware of their health. Due to this, pyrrhoea develops and teeth become yellow and hollow or cavity develops. Many villagers use vegetation brush (datun) made of neem tree. Similar treatment is suggested by an experienced person, Shri Manji Nanoma. Green leaves of bamboo (Dandrocalamus strictus) are dried and ash is prepared after burning it. This ash is used as tooth paste, once a week. Many people of Naya Talab, Hathai in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan are using this treatment and it is being practised from generation to generations. Keywords: pyrrhoea, bamboo leaves, datun, ash Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma, Naya Talab, Hathai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 2709 Driving away mosquito by using bherua (Chloroxylon swietenia) leaves Fresh leaves of bherua (Chloroxylon swietenia) are hung to drive away mosquitoes. This practice is being used in Chandaka village of Khurda district in Orissa. Keywords: mosquito, bherua Dr Arati Bala Prusti Plot No. 2658, BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 014 2690 Uses of sea buckthorn The people in high mountainous area have been using sea buckthorn fruits for curing several ailments including skin, tumor diseases, digestive disorders, respiratory ailments and foot and mouth disease in cattle. Major traditional uses of sea buckthorn are wood for fuel and timber, fodder for goats and cattle, fencing to protect fruit trees, in nurseries, in orchards, maintenance of irrigation channels, soil conservation, improving fertility, subsidiary food items, medicinal products and alcoholic preparations.