 The paste is also used to treat eczema and other skin problems (Tamil Nadu). Rajan and Sethuraman (1997) 472 Control of ringworm infections Leaf, seed, fruit, stembark of Annona reticulata are the useful parts. Important constituents are amorphorous alkaloid, resin, tannic acid that act as vermicide, insecticide, pediculocide, antibacterial, tonic, astringent and fruit is antihelmentic and controls ringworm infections (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 473 Ethnoveterinary worm killer Plant seed and leaf of kiramar (Aristolochia bracteata) are the valuable parts containing volatile alkaloids which are used as purgative, emmenagogue, alterative, anti periodic and anthelmintic. Mainly cures syphilis, gonorrhoea and skin diseases. Leaf juice mixed with castor oil is applied on ulsers and on eczema (Gujarat). Parabia et al. (2000) 474 Use of Delonix elata for worm Leaf and stembark of Delonix elata contain hentriacontaine, b-sitosterol, glucoside, hentriacontarol, protocatechuic acid, quercetine and are used as antiperiodic, febrifuge, rheumatism, flatulence, worms (Gujarat) Parabia et al. (2000) 475 Treatment of intestinal worms in calves Mamejvo (Enicostema hyssoplifolium) is pounded and given to the calf twice or thrice a day. The plant grows to a height of hardly one foot and has very small leaves. The practice is very old (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Mavjibhai (1993) 262 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 476 Treatment of intestinal worms in calves Roots of sasani ghoghdi are pounded thoroughly and mixed with water. Approximately two glasses of the suspension are administered to the calf early in the morning. There is a belief that excessive feeding of milk increases the worm in young calves. This practice is quite old and has not changed over the years (Jamnagar, Gujarat). Bhoya (1993) 477 Treatment of intestinal worms in animals Juice extracted from the mamejvo plant is to be administered in mornings and evenings for three consecutive days to animals .It is believed that this treatment is a broad spectrum method and helps to eliminate all types of intestinal worms. The mamejvo plant which grows in the monsoon reaches a height of two to three feet (about 30 to 60 cm) and bears white flowers (Surendranagar, Gujarat). Dabhi (1994) 478 Control of intestinal worms Two to three branches of ‘fafada thor’ (Euphorbia spp) are burnt to ashes. Then 50 g of ash is mixed with water and given to the animals to drink once for 2 days. Another treatment for intestinal worms is to make a powder after the drying the following: bark of Holarrhena antidysentrica(10%), Tinospora cardifolia(40%), leaves of Mentha piperita (10%), Butea monsperma seeds (20%) and Phyllanthus emblica (20%). Dose of 3 g each of this mixture twice a day helps eliminating the intestinal worms (Banswada, Rajasthan). Thakor (1992) 479 Earthworms control intestinal worms During monsoons earthworms become conspicuous in wet soils.