 Additional returns of Rs.7338/- per hectare from Safflower cultivation. Southern Zone: Nellore (paddy, bajra, jowar and ragi crop, tobacco, groundnut, chillies, sesame, sugarcane) Livelihood diversification and stability of income Mushroom production Nellore climatic conditions demand cultivation of Milky Mushrooms & Oyster Mushrooms and there is heavy demand for the mushrooms in urban areas. Farmers are engaged in the mushroom production in lean periods of the day (After farm work) as it is less laborious and able to utilise their time and labour for additional income. In terms of income, the farmer is earning an additional income of Rs. 2000-3000 per 10 kgs of mushrooms per cycle (45 days) in addition to their farm income with B:C ratio of 3:1 to 4:1. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 27 Area Major Intervention Objective contribution Livelihood diversification and stability of income Rural Feed Processing Unit at Nellore National Research Centre on Meat (NRCM), Hyderabad has taken up rearing of ram lambs under stall feeding with ‘Complete Feeds’ under world bank funded National Agricultural Innovation Project. For this purpose a Rural Feed Processing Unit has been established at Chennur village of Gudurmandal in Nellore dist. of A.P. Under this, farmers are made to rear weaned ram lambs of 3-4 months age under complete confinement in their stall and the animals were never allowed to go out for grazing till they attain market weight. In the stalls, ram lambs were offered with complete feed in the feeders which can meet all the nutrient requirements in dry mash farm as seen in the case of broiler poultry rearing. The ram lambs attained market weight in 120 days of feeding. The profit earned within 4 months is about Rs.2670-2070 per animal. Scarce Rainfall: District: Kurnool (rice, sorghum, groundnut, cotton, Bengal gram, sunflower, castor, red gram, mango, sweet, orange, tomato, onion, coriander, brinjal) Productivity enhancement Reviving cultivation of rice fallow pluses with the introduction of disease tolerant varieties A significant decline in rice fallow pulse area was witnessed in Andhra Pradesh due to severe incidence of Yellow Mosaic Virus (YMV) disease in short duration pulse crops (blackgram and greengram). Demonstration of YMV tolerant cultivar TBG-104 in participatory cluster frontline demonstrations by KVK Kurnool indicated a bridgeable yield gap of 9.84 q/ha and additional net returns of Rs. 57124/ha Crop diversification with Foxtail millet (Setaria italica) Cotton and pigeon pea were the main crops grown in Yagantipalle village during kharif season. Most of the crops got affected with late onset of monsoon, followed by dry spells during critical stages of crop growth, which in turn severely affected the crop yields. The short duration millets viz.