 Spread leaves of Piludi (Salvadora persica) at the bottom of a closely knit bamboo basket and fill it with paddy seeds; water (about 10 to 12 litres) is poured slowly over the basket. It is then covered with leaves of the same tree and weights are put on the basket to keep the seeds pressed. If necessary, a little water is sprinkled over basket a couple of times. Sometimes, leaves of aval (Cassia spp) are used instead. The basket is kept undisturbed for 24 hrs after which seeds are sown in nursery immediately. This is believed to help in early and vigorous germination. This is a traditional practice in this region but very few people practice it now. Shri Shankardan Gadhvi has used this practice consistently twice during last two years and found it effective (Kheda, Gujarat) Gadhvi (1995) 81 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 177 Paddy seedling treatment by neem and ash to control pest and disease Before transplanting paddy seedlings are kept in small plots of standing water mixed with ash and pulverised neem seeds. For 15 sq.ft., half kg of neem seed and 1 kg of ash is sufficient for mixing with water to accommodate 50 bundles of seedlings at a time for 1/2 to 1 hr. Treated seedlings produce healthy crops, free from pests and diseases (Perambalur, Tamil Nadu.). Selvarani (2000) 178 Indigenous agriculture knowledge in eastern India Traditional technical knowledge on Beushening operation, in direct seeded rice crop has no other alternative in flood and drought prone rainfed lowlands.This system provides a minimum assured yield even in aberrant rainfall condition. Double transplantting is the answer to multiply rice seedlings in scarcity situation such as damage of established crop in field due to flood. This technology can be applicable for rice hybrids because their seed cost is prohibitive.Control of stink bug through non-chemical means assumes special importance because this pest damages the crop in grain filling stage. Trapping with rotten crabs or eels, repelling with the odour emanating from the peels of grape fruit and encouraging the predatory birds by providing support made of bamboo or wooden sticks are some solutions based on traditional knowledge. Scaring away sparrows from rice field is possible by putting the dark coloured pseudostem of Colocassia shaped like head of snake.Storing of rice seeds in containers made with several layers of paddy straw is ideal for maintaining viability. Pulse beetle can be managed by storing pulse grain mixed with dried leaves of neem. Traditional way of maintaining viability of bitter gourd seeds by storing inside cowdung cakes is another practise. It is easier to control rhinoceros beetles in coconut orchard by trapping into oily extract produced after boiling the ground castor seeds with water.