 Migration duration is fairly evenly distributed, with approximately one-third of migrants having been away for less than 5 years (32.49 %), 5–10 years (35.22 %), and more than 10 years (32.29 %). Remittances play an important role in increasing overall well-being and promoting economic growth at both the individual and commu­ nity levels(Ghosh Dastidar, 2017). The efficient use of remittances is determined by the receivers’ unique needs and ambitions and the larger context of the receiving community. Table 2 indicates detailed infor­ mation about remittance utilization in various sectors according to the migration types as well as region-wise in the Middle Ganga Plain. The analysis further revealed that medical expenses have the highest share of remittance expenses, around 63 %, followed by daily needs, including food, around 60 %, and education of the children, about 56 %. Social ceremonies, such as festivals and gifts to relatives, have a percentage of 51.5 % while paying dowry has a percentage of 45.6 %. Loan repayment accounts for 42.3 %. For investment, the highest percentage is spent on constructing a new house at 50.2 %, followed by repair/maintenance of the house at 51 %. Purchasing of ornaments and investing in buying livestock are also listed under this category. Other household purchases include a motorcycle, television, fridge/washing machine, and mobile/ camera, with the highest percentage spent on a motorcycle at 24.4 %. Under agriculture, hiring a labourer has the highest percentage at 29 %, followed by purchasing hybrid seeds at 26 %. Purchasing fertilizers/ pesticides and tube wells are also expenses listed under this category. Table 3 presents the percentage distribution of agricultural expenses farmers incur in relation to different background characteristics. The agricultural expenses are categorized into four types: hiring labour, purchasing hybrid seeds, purchasing fertilizer/pesticides, and purchas­ ing a tube well. Use of remittance in different categories of agricultural expenses represents on the basis of various socio-economic, de­ mographic and migration characteristics. The background characteris­ tics include age categories, such as less than 30 years, 31–45 years, 46–60 years, and more than 60 years. For instance, farmers under 30 years old spend their remittances in agricultural expenses on hiring la­ bour, purchasing hybrid seeds and purchasing fertilizer/pesticides around 44 %, further 46 % on purchasing a tube well. The total agri­ cultural expenses incurred by this age category is 52.44 %. The age group of more than 60 years has the highest proportion of remittance expense in every agricultural sub-category. For the age category of more than 31 – 45 years, 56.58 % of them spent their remittance as agricul­ tural expenses on hiring labour, around 54 % on purchasing hybrid seeds, 54 % on purchasing fertilizer/pesticides, and 49 % on purchasing a tube well.