 Therefore, bio-intensive disease management strategies for important cool season pulses given in this article are need to be adopted judiciously to accelerate productivity. This would certainly be helpful in achieving the target of pulse production in the stipulated time frame. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: ashoka.parihar@gmail.com Stem/white rot infected (a) chickpea (b) lentil and (c) fieldpea A B C Indian Farming 7 August 2023 Relay seeding of berseem in mustard crop influences system productivity and economics Y P Singh* Rajmata Vijayaraje Scindia Krishi Vishwa Vidyalaya, Gwalior, Madhya Pradesh 474 002 In the semi-arid tropics, mustard-based cropping systems grown in monocropping resulted in declined soil fertility, system productivity and profitability. It was observed that by growing the relay crop of berseem in mustard, soil fertility, system productivity and profitability can be improved. The relay cropping of berseem in mustard was introduced in 2018–19 in 32 ha in Farmer First Programme (FFP) project adopted villages of Morena district of Madhya Pradesh and its adoption has expanded to 11,800 ha. Compared with existing system of without relay cropping, the relay legume crop of berseem enhanced the productivity of rainy (kharif) season crops- pearl millet, paddy and greengram and winter (rabi) season mustard. Like-wise system-based mustard equivalent yield (MEY) in relay cropping system increased from 35–62% with additional net profit from `29,000-46,300/ha as compared to without relay cropping. The water productivity was also increased from 6–19% with relay cropping as compared to without relay system. Thus, the relay cropping of berseem in mustard gained popularity among farmers as an appropriate farm adequate, knowledge-intensive, eco-friendly, profitable and socially acceptable technology. Keywords: Adaptability, Berseem, Mustard-based system, Relay cropping, System productivity I n oilseed crops, Indian mustard (Brassica juncea) is second most important crop grown with pearl millet/greengram/blackgram/ maize/paddy-based cropping systems. These cropping systems are grown in limited irrigated areas as monocropping under intensive tillage, improper crop establishing and imbalanced use of chemical fertilizers. The cultivation practice of mustard has been showing signs of fatigue and stagnating productivity. Reasons behind are deteriorating soil health and resources due to monocropping, mechanized intensive and repeated tillage, and burning of crop residues. To improve system productivity, it is necessary to diversify the existing system through legume crop-based relay cropping system. The present innovative study on legume crop of berseem (Trifolium alexandrinum) relayed in mustard in pearlmillet/ Indian Farming 73 (08): 07-10; August 2023 paddy/greengram cropping systems was conducted in FFP project adopted villages of Morena district of Madhya Pradesh.