 Further, the committee is holding wide ranging discussions/consultations with former Chairman, Members of ASRB, DDGs and Directors in ICAR system and Vice Chancellors of some SAUs during these meetings. The report is likely to be submitted shortly. • Revised APAR introduced for all scientific positions: Revision of APAR format for various scientific positions was initiated with reference to extant DoPT guidelines and formats were developed by NAARM in consultation with all SMDs and ASRB. The revised APAR formats were further examined by a committee in consultation with all SMDs and thereafter have been adopted for implementation vide circular dated 20 June 2017. INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND TECHNOLOGY MANAGEMENT IP protection and grant of titles Patents: Patent applications (101) from 31 ICAR institutes were processed at Indian Patent Office. These Patent applications filed Agricultural implements: Side view image capturing device; and double roller banana pseudo-stem fibre extractor. Animal health/ vaccines/ diagnostics: A process for the preparation of CARI poultry semen diluent. Cotton and jute textile processes: Integrated grading system for natural fibers including jute fiber and; and digital color and luster meter for lingo-cellulose fiber. Dairy products and processes: Caseino phosphopeptides-divalent metal (iron/zinc) nan complexes and method of preparation; construction of mutant strain of kluyvero-mycesmarxianus for enhanced galactose utilization; and preparation of buffalo milk casein hydrolysates with enriched ant oxidative peptides and the process. Fish/marine products and processes: Spring- less apparatus for holding bivalves during a pearl production surgical operation; and process to prepare anti-dyslipidaemia concentrate from seaweed. Food products and processes: Process for preparing Nutmeg taffy, cashew apple crunch and resultant food product; and process for making uniform, smooth and succulent seekh kebabs without hardening of outer layer. Plant-protection methods and processes: Process of obtaining swertiamarin powder concentrate from Enicostemma species and an encapsulated formulation based on the same; semi-synthetic diet for mass rearing of five species of genus Bactrocera of agricultural and quarantine significance; apparatus for in vivo mass production of entomo- pathogenic nematode; process and kit for insect facilitated controlled pollination in oil palm; and liquid culture process for mass multiplication of chlamydospores. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 127 included application filed (20), application published (50) and patent granted (31). Thus, taking the cumulative figure to 1,045 patent applications filed, and 212 granted from 75 ICAR institutes.