 Use grow bag, soil less medium and organic inputs for vegetable cultivation. Use drip or wick irrigation sources for assuring wetness for better growth of plants. Use soil less medium @ 5kg/bag. Farmers interested in vegetable cultivation can start seedling production through nursery method. Farmers should use good quality seeds in warm and protected place by using seedling trays or seed beds with fertile soil enriched with FYM or compost. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 424 Seeds should be treated with pseudomonas florescence (10g/Kg). To control Root Knot Nematode, apply Pochonia chlamydosporia 10g/l and apply apply Neemcake 1kg Per Plant. Similarly, to control Powdery mildew, spray Bordeaux mixture 1% in the affected areas. To control fruit rot soil drenching with Tricoderma 10 g/l can be performed. Coconut: Farmers need to provide staking to young coconut seedlings as protection from heavy winds. The green manure crops should be ploughed in and incorporated into the soil during August- September. To conserve moisture farmers are advised to use natural mulching materials near the coconut basin like green or dry leaves at the close during the onset of northeast monsoon. Farmers are advised to collect all the bio wastes of the farm and compost it for manure. Sanitize the field to control Rhinoceros beetle, Crown cleaning and Fill crown with sand 250g +4 naphthalene ball can be administered and effectively hook out the beetle using beetle hook. For preventing and controlling bud rot sanitize the field clean the Crown cleaning and drench with Bordeaux mixture. Banana: Take care of newly planted banana with organic manure (10kg/ plant). Irrigate twice a week, provide shade, and mulch using dried leaves. Be vigilant about rhizome weevil. Apply neem-garlic emulsion to control the vectors spreading Bunchy top virus. Spray neem oil and garlic emulsion @6ml/litre on the lower leaf surface to control mites. Provide stake to banana plant or protection from heavy winds. It is advised that farmers have to sanitize the field and perform the weeding periodically. Use the dried banana leaves for Mulching. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 425 To prevent Rizhome rot use healthy planting materials, remove the outer layer of rhizome then soak in cow dung slurry and shade dry after the use of this panting material, soil drenching with Bordeaux mixture 1%, field sanitation and avoid water logging. To prevent Rhizome Weevils and Pseudo stem weevil use healthy planting materials. Remove the outer layer of rhizome then soak in cow dung slurry and shade dry after the use of this panting material. Livestock: Animal growers are advised to avoid water logging near livestock farms including poultry sheds. For livestock keep the hooves away from water to avoid hoof rotting disease. It is advised to take measures to reduce the tick and flies’ problem. It is always to be kept in mind that the farm area must be disinfected using disinfectants regularly.