5 ml or seriboost poshan plus @ 7ml or Poshan during morning hours @10 ml per one liter water per one acre after 25 days of pruning and repeat after 1 week. Š Š Compost sericulture wastes with super phosphate/waste decomposer, cow dung, ash and water in pits Š Š Spraying of Dimethoate @ 3 ml per 1 ltr water to control pest in mulberry (safe period is 20 days) or Neem oil @ 5ml per 1 ltr water (safe period is 1 week). In Silkworm rearing: Š Š Disinfection and maintenance of hygiene. Š Š Maintain optimum temperature and humidity. Š Š Remove diseased larvae, preferably before mummification and dispose them Š Š properly. Š Š Application of bed disinfectants as per the recommended schedule and quantity. Š Š Rearing bed should be kept thin and dry. Š Š Control mulberry pests to avoid cross contamination. General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, dairy & fisheries Cattle, Sheep & Goat Š Š Make silage from surplus green and feed the cattle along with hay and crop residues whenever there is fodder shortage. Š Š Grow hybrid Napier, Super Napier, CO 4 and multi cut fodder Jowar COFS-29/31/33 for green fodder along with leguminous fodder varieties such as Hedge lucerne, Fodder cowpea, Stylo. Encourage fodder trees such as Avisa, Subabul and Moringa. Š Š If ad libitum supply of good quality leguminous fodder is available, no extra concentrates are necessary upto 10 kg milk production in cows and 7 kg in buffaloes Š Š Periodically spray water during peak hot hours to reduce temperature and heat load on animals. Provide ventilation for free circulation of air in the sheds. Š Š Provide green fodder/silage/concentrates during day time and roughages/hay during night time during high temperature periods Š Š Roughages (air dry basis) for computation of ration for dairy cattle should contain not less than 1% and not more than 2% of cow live weight Š Š Allow animals to graze early in morning or later in evening. Š Š Provide clean drinking water throughout the day and mineral mixture in the feed. Š Š Prepare feed with locally available ingredients like jowar, maize, ragi, bajra, broken seed and coat of pulses and oil cakes ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 151 Š Š Identify and quarantine sick animals and sanitize animal sheds. Š Š Vaccinate animals for specific diseases according to seasons. Š Š Encourage farmers for periodic deworming in livestock. Poultry Š Š Add anti-stress probiotics in drinking water during summer. Š Š Add 1 kg of sodium bicarbonate/tonne of feed to improve shell quality Š Š Cultivate azolla as supplementary feed. Š Š Utilize broken rice or bajra (up to 30-40%), cotton seed meal (1%) in poultry when there is shortage of maize Š Š Link supply of poultry produces (egg and chicken meat) with the essential commodity supply chain to all the notified / targeted areas.