 Total Climate resilient practices tailored to context and location specific situation under 4 modules were demonstrated by 121 KVKs. During 2018-20, as many as 30971 participatory demonstrations on NRM; 24737 demonstrations on resilient practices of short duration, drought/flood tolerant cultivars, crop diversification and resilient cropping systems and interventions covering 637890 livestock and fisheries; 4101 trainings covering 76775 farmers; 7575 extension activities covering 141544 farmers were conducted by the KVKs. The model attracts traction of States in India and in SAARC countries. Maharashtra put the model in 5000 villages under World Bank funded Project on Climate Resilient Agriculture (PoCRA) and SAARC initiated consortium for scaling up climate smart agriculture in South Asia (C-SUCSeS) through Climate Change & Food Security (CCAFS-India) in in its 8 Member States. NABARD entered into an MoU with ICAR for climate proofing of NABARD watersheds. 5.4. Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP) Farmer FIRST provides an opportunity for the researchers, extension personnel and farmers to work together. Under this scheme, the research initiative is decided based on need and interest of farmers where scientists’ role is of facilitators. The project is being implemented at 52 centres across the country covering about 45,000 farm families. 5.5. Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA) ARYA initiative of ICAR was undertaken in 25 districts initially to develop a comprehensive model to attract and empower the youth in rural areas to take up various agriculture, allied and service sector enterprises for sustainable income and gainful employment. The programmes also aimed at enabling the farm youth to establish net work groups to take up resource and capital-intensive activities like processing, value addition and marketing and demonstrate functional linkage with different institutions and stake holders for convergence of opportunities available under various schemes/programmes for sustainable development of youth. Over 42,000 youth have been facilitated by KVKs in 25 districts. The project is planned to be extended to another 75 districts making the total districts under this initiative to 100. Achievements in Agricultural Extension in Independent India 347 5.6. Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav (My Village My Pride) The essence of this program is incorporating direct delivery of scientific technology and practice to farming community. Under MGMG, the scientists of ICAR Institutes adopt villages and introduce the technologies developed by ICAR in the villages. A team of four scientists adopt a cluster of five villages based upon proximity and make regular visits to the villages and extend technical guidance to the farmers. Multidisciplinary teams of scientists of ICAR Institutes and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) have covered 13,500 villages.