 (xxviii) To constitute the Scientific Advisory Committee and conduct its meetings as per the norms issued by the FIRST PARTY from time to time. (xxix) To allow the FIRST PARTY to review the KVK by Quinquenial Review Team (QRT) and agree to follow the approved recommendations by the FIRST PARTY. (xxx) That the KVK shall submit a monthly, half yearly, annual report and any other periodic report, in the prescribed proforma, as asked for by the FIRST PARTY about the work of the KVK and also the working plan for the next year to the FIRST PARTY. In the event of an unsatisfactory progress of work of the KVK as assessed by the FIRST PARTY, the FIRST PARTY may stop the release of further grants to the KVK or terminate the project funding without assigning any reasons thereof. (xxxi) That the contingencies purchased if any out of the grants given by the FIRST PARTY will be deemed to have been utilised appropriately for the purpose for which these have been sanctioned and a certificate to this effect is to be furnished to the Council along with AUC. (xxxii) That the stores of capital nature acquired for KVK out of the grants given by the FIRST PARTY shall be maintained in good condition with proper record. The vehicles, farm machineries and equipments will be maintained in the stock registers of the SECOND PARTY which should be presented to the FIRST PARTY officers for inspection and to the Auditors for check and endorsement. (xxxiii) To provide all financial powers to In-charge of KVK as per guidelines/norms provided by the FIRST PARTY for this purpose. 144 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (xxxiv) To permit the KVK Personnel/staff to attend relevant Workshops, Seminars, Symposia, Conferences, Meetings, etc., organized by the FIRST PARTY. 8. Further, both the parties mutually agree: (i) That the Project is essentially a cooperative/partnership venture. (ii) To their commitment to carry out the activities and achieve the objectives as mentioned hereinabove and mutually agreed upon. (iii) That the KVK or the Scientists responsible for doing outstanding work, organizing training programmes and other mandated activities and thereby significantly contributing towards agricultural production in the area shall be given due recognition. (iv) That recruitment procedure, promotion shall be as per guidelines issued by the FIRST PARTY and other service conditions of the KVK personnel will be as per the rules and regulations of the SECOND PARTY subject to the condition that the staff of the KVK would not be entitled to any service benefit in excess of the benefit available to the employees of the FIRST PARTY. (v) That the promotional policy, including the pay and eligibility criteria, will strictly be as per the guidelines issued by the FIRST PARTY. (vi) That the posts in KVKs are sanctioned in a particular pay scale or pay band and grade pay. However the SECOND PARTY can promote the staff following the CAS/MACPS guidelines.