 Value addition at producer’s level could be attractive alternative for strengthening the milk value chain to deliver quality assured products to consumers and provide remunerative prices to producers. Optimizing product mix for better return and process line for indigenous dairy products, as it appears to be the best option for new enterprise considering the demand and low investment required. Product testing and diagnostics: Under the gambit of FSSAI there is growing demand for food testing laboratories and there is a scheme for establishment of Food testing lab through financial support of Ministry of Food Processing Industries (MOFPI). Persons having expertise in food quality, safety and management system may undertake accreditation job for NABL, HACCP, ISO and other safety management systems. However, that requires experience of field conditions. Another area for entrepreneurship development is manufacturing of rapid diagnostic kits and equipments to test adulterants, antibiotic residues, pathogens, mycotoxins, heavy metals and other pollutants. Ingredient production and marketing: Food ingredients play an important role in quality enhancement of food products. Nowadays, excellent range of ingredients are available that can be marketed. The marketing of ingredients would be more remunerative, if technical and application services are provided. Likewise, to cater the need of growing fermented food market, there is rapidly growing demand of appropriate microbial cultures with novel techno-functional characteristics. Milk nutraceuticals have a great demand and occupy a pivotal position in market. Converting waste into value added products: Community based approach for converting farm waste into value added products/service including vermin-compost, electricity, fuel and liquid fertilizer, may also be taken up as enterprise. There are successful business models that reflect the economic potential of farm waste in dairy value chain. Farm and dairy processing equipment: Mechanization both at dairy farm and milk processing unit in SME (Small and Medium Enterprise) offer emerging opportunity to fabricators and engineers to start manufacturing such equipment. Mechanization is essential for enhancing the product quality and there is requirement of fabricators for small scale processing equipment. Moreover, there is also need for energy efficient service/ utility systems to support small scale production. As packaging could be an effective tool for shelf-life and marketing that necessitate efficient packaging system and lines. Under Make-in-India mission it can be taken up and supported technically by ICAR institutes. Market statistics also suggest a growing demand of Indian Farming January 2020 35 equipments in export market as well. Government schemes for promotion of dairying and food processing Government has launched and modified various schemes for the promotion of entrepreneurship in dairy and food processing sectors.