 This system broadens the mind of Mizo cultivators to a variety of crops which can include millets, if the essential spread of awareness is taken up by agriculture extension personnel of government and private agencies to farmers and consumers on millets and their numerous prospects. Millets, as stated frequently by many researchers, are an extremely nutritious group of cereals. These nutri-cereals have the potential to provide the required nutrients to the malnourished population of poor rural communities. Due to their climate resilience, adaptability to biotic stresses and lesser inputs requirement, they are convenient for cultivation. Millets are a group of sustainable crops and their cultivation is in line with the currently favoured organic farming system and is environmentally suitable in view of present-day climate change scenario. Another promising prospect in millets cultivation is that a great deal of previously mentioned value-added products are processed from the nutri-cereals and these commodities will help boost farmer income. In view of IYM and the ongoing popularization of millets cultivation worldwide, the demand for fresh and processed millet products are on the rise extensively. This trend further increases the potential of export opportunities which will be tremendously beneficial. Millets cultivation will also be favourable not only to the food sector of Mizoram but also in its animal husbandry sector. Millets are used and widely grown as forage crops in many parts of the world, especially in developed countries and can provide sufficiently nutritious feed for livestock. Cultivation of millets in Mizoram has numerous potential to uplift the income and further livelihood of Mizo farmers. SUMMARY Millets are nutritionally rich, require least agronomic management, can be grown in low fertile soil and are resistant towards pests and diseases. These properties of millets are best suited for Mizoram for its cultivation on a large scale. As found by the survey, cultivation of millets in Mizoram is inadequate and lacking in millet production as compared to the national average. Several initiatives are currently taken up by the state government to popularize millet production on account of IYM. Many regions of the state are potential areas to popularize and increase millet production even on a large scale. IYM provides an excellent opportunity for the state to improve its millet output. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: jeetendra.soni@icar.gov.