 Therapeutics Development of in vitro serology based statistical models for potency testing of commercial FMD vaccine: ICAR-IVRI, Bengaluru developed a serology based (serum neutralization test) statistical model for potency testing of FMD vaccine. The tests were standardized by estimating antibody titer on 28th day after vaccination before challenging them. The protection data of individual animals were correlated with antibody titer by statistical modelling technique such as probit and logistic regression. The cut-off or threshold antibody level for each of three virus types was established to replace challenge-based potency testing. Except administration of vaccine and collection of blood, no other intervention is required on the animals. This method has additional advantage of finding the protective level of antibody response for all the three types of virus present in the commercial FMD vaccine. Selection of bovine viral diarrhoea (BVD) vaccine candidate strains: Based on the genetic, antigenic characterization of currently circulating bovine pestiviruses in India and virus growth kinetics studies, 3 BVD vaccine candidate strains, one each for BVDV- 1, BVDV-2 and HoBiPeV species were selected to develop inactivated vaccine. Live attenuated Classical swine fever cell culture vaccine: Live attenuated CSF cell culture vaccine was developed from an indigenous strain. The titre of the vaccine virus was very high (1×109 TCID50/ml) and around 60 lakh doses can be produced from a 75 cm2 LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 80 culture flask. This vaccine will be highly cost effective and can be easily scaled up. This technology was assigned to AgrInnovate India Ltd for commercialization. present study documented that anti-CPV IgY have significant therapeutic potential in management of CPV associated gastroenteritis of dogs. Biomarker discovery for subclinical endometritis in dairy cattle through comparative proteomics approach: Few uterine fluid proteins that could act as potential candidate biomarker(s) for early diagnosis of SCE in dairy cattle were identified. Proteomic profiling using tandem mass tags (TMT) coupled with mass spectrometric analysis identified a total of 717 and 148 unique proteins in subclinical endometritis affected Deoni and HF crossbred cows, respectively, as compared to normal cows. The expression of protein SCE1 in uterine fluid of subclinical endometritis affected Deoni and crossbred cows was > 2 folds in both LC-MS/MS analysis and Western blotting. Use of anti-CPV IgY can augment therapeutic response in managing parvovirus infection in dogs: Canine parvovirus (CPV) specific egg yolk immunoglobulins (anti-CPV IgY) were produced by inoculating CPV antigen to white leghorn birds and IgY was extracted. Sixty parvovirus infected dogs were enrolled randomly in this study.