 It is a regular bearing, medium-sized fruits, orange-coloured pulp, free of spongy tissue and fibre. Sindhu (Ratna × Alphonso) born fruits in clusters with a seedless fruit having a very thin stone. Konkan Ruchi (Neelum × Alphonso), Suvarna (Alphonso × Neelum), Konkan Raja (Bangalora × Himayuddin) and Konkan Samrat (Alphonso × Tommy Atkins) are some other hybrids released from Vengurle. The Agricultural Experiment Station, Navsari, Paria developed and released the hybrids Neeleshan Gujarat (Neelum × Baneshan), Neeleshwari (Neelum × Dashehari), Neelphonso (Neelum × Alphonso) and Sonpari (Alphonso × Baneshan). Bihar Agricultural University, Sabour, Bhagalpur, released Prabhashankar (Bombay × Kalapady) in 1951 as a first mango hybrid. Alfazli (Alphonso × Fazli), and Sundar Langra (Langra × Sunder Pasand) were released in 1980. Sabari (Gulabkhas × Bombai) has a red peel and a reddish yellow pulp. Jawahar (Gulabkhas × Mahmood Bahar) is a mid-season cultivar with greenish-yellow ripening fruits that taste sweet and agreeable. The Horticultural Research Station, Periyakulam, developed PKM-1 (Chinna Suvarnarekha × Neelum) and PKM-2 (Neelum × Mulgoa), respectively, in 1981 and 1990. Both bear regularly, producing good-quality cluster fruits. Mahatama Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri developed Sai Sugandha (Totapari × Kesar) and released it in 1998. Clonal selections There has been a lot of variability in the most popular commercial mango types. In addition to hybridization, clonal selection has been employed to identify promising seedlings. The clonal selection or superior seedlings have been identified in different mango growing areas of the country. When compared to the parent type, these clones may produce higher yield, have a better look, or mature earlier. Primarily, fruit yield and quality have been used to identify superior clones. Cardozo Mankurad is a selection from Mankurad made by the Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute, Ela, Old Goa. Paiyur-1 is a clonal selection of Neelum mango, released in 1992. It is a regular bearer, with good quality fruits and excellent taste. Dashehari-35, a clonal selection from Dashehari made at ICAR-CISH, Lucknow, has a consistent yield and is recommended for cultivation in Telangana. GBPUA&T, Pantnagar Dashehari clonal selections are, viz. Pant Chandra and Pant Sinduri. At Sabour, Subhash from Zardalu seedling and Menaka from Gulabkhas seedling were selected. At CHES, Bhubneshwer, Arka Neelachal Kesari, a clonal selection of Gulabkhas was selected. The Fruit Research Station, Sangareddy released Manjeera in 1985. Amrapali Arunika Indian Horticulture 8 Vasantrao Naik Marathwada Krishi Vidyapeeth, Parbhani released Niranjan, as a selection from the Royal. Phule Abhiruchi is a selection of GK-PM-5 in 2014 and is recommended for pickling in Maharashtra. Indira Gandhi Krishi Viswavidyalaya, Chattisgarh released in 2015, Nandiraj is a clonal mango selection from Nayapara, Jagdalpur.