 Lymphocyte stimulation test (LST) was sensitive in detecting subclinical paratuberculosis. PCR was standardized on clinical and postmortem samples for the diagnosis. Luminol-dependent chemiluminescence activity was higher for M. paratuberculosis than staphylococcus antigens l SDS-PAGE profile and immunoblotting of cell surface proteins of Listeria spp. and outer membrane proteins of 32 different serotypes of Salmonella revealed 28 and 75 kDa polypeptides to be immunodominant and L. monocytogenes-specific, and 32 kDa of OMP to be common and immunodominant among Salmonella spp l Using synthetic peptide approach, VP7 protein sequences of bluetongue virus (BTV) were exploited and three most reactive VP7 specific peptides were identified at the IVRI using BTV specific sera, which were 122–139, 163–180 and 339–349. Antipeptide antibodies against multiple antigen peptide (MAP) 122–139 reacted up to 1 : 12,000 and also specifically to VP7 of BTV in western blot, ELISA and dot-ELISA l An indirect ELISA was standardized for serodiagnosis of caprine toxoplasmosis. Major polypeptides of tachyzoite antigen of Toxoplasma gondii in the MW range of 104-12 kDa were identified in silver stained SDS gradient (5–15%) gels. Immunodominant antigens of T. gondii in the ascitic fluid of infected mice were identified by western immunoblotting with positive caprine sera l Diagnosis of parasitic diseases of domestic animals: At the IVRI, Izatnagar, the antigen (s) of F. gigantica were purified, and evaluated using F. gigantica infected sera from experimentally infected buffalo yearling calves by using ELISA, western blot and dip-stick ELISA with 100% sensitivity. Anti- fasciola antibodies were detectable as early as two weeks post-infection. Cysteine proteinase (defined protein antigen) was purified from F. gigantica regurgitant and the isolation protocol was standardized. A cDNA of F. gigantica fatty acid binding protein (FABP) was cloned in a suitable vector and expressed as recombinant protein using prokaryotic (E. coli) expression system. Purification was achieved up to 90 to 95% level. The usefulness of FABP fusion protein of F. gigantica as a diagnostic antigen needs to be tested by ELISA and dot-ELISA. l Diagnostics for classical swine fever were developed: The CSF virulent virus obtained from CADRAD, IVRI, Izatnagar, and CSF vaccine virus (lapinised) obtained from Biological Products Division, IVRI, Izatnagar, were used for standardizing the RT-PCR for detection of CSF virus. For the virulent strain, spleen, lymphnodes and tonsil samples from an experimentally infected pig were used, while the vaccine virus was used after suitable dilution of the freeze-dried vaccine (spleen suspension of rabbit). The protocol was standardized with known positive tissue samples. The protocol was successfully applied to field outbreak samples originating from the last reported outbreak of swine fever in Punjab.