 SUMMARY That Amrit can be used for table and processing Vertical expansion of nursery under protected conditions using soilless rooting medium An efficient technology for multiplication of clonal rootstock (M-9, MM-106, MM-111, P-22, B-9, M-27) of apple under greenhouse conditions was standardized. The technique involves wounding/incision on branches with diameter of 5 mm at 30 cm above ground level using sharp knife/blade to remove the bark followed by application of 2,500 ppm IBA as rooting hormone. The treatment starts from the second week of June till the last week of August. Small polybags (filled with rooting medium) are fastened at the points where rooting needs to be initiated. A lightweight substrate (cocopeat) having high moisture holding capacity is used as rooting medium. Staking is accomplished with the help of bamboo poles to hold the bags in a proper position and to keep the plants straight. This technology is very useful in promoting the vertical expansion of the nursery in greenhouse conditions and the multiplication of number of plants per unit area has increased by three to four times with minimum utilization of extra inputs and area. One more additional benefit of this technology is that under the greenhouse conditions, the rootstocks attain sufficient girth (> 6 mm) and all the plants are suitable for budding. The technology not only produced the additional 3-4 rootstocks but also the budded plants which have added advantage to this technology. Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Indian Horticulture 14 G INGER (Zingiber officinale Roscoe), a rhizomatous herbaceous perennial plant belonging to the family Zingiberaceae, is an important spice crop. In India, during 2020-21, ginger is cultivated on an area of 1,75,764 ha with an annual production of 18,84,775 t with productivity of 10.72 t/ha. In India, Madhya Pradesh, Karnataka, Assam, Odisha, West Bengal, and North-eastern states cultivate ginger extensively. Increasing ginger productivity through improved varieties, use of resources to achieve higher yields, while promoting the sustainability of farming systems and progressing from subsistence farming to market-oriented agriculture, are to be developed and adopted. IISR Vajra The ICAR-Indian Institute of Spices Research, Kozhikode through its systematic germplasm evaluation programme developed an extra bold and high yielding ginger variety, IISR Vajra, for the benefit of farmers. It is a clonal selection (Acc. 247) from the vast repository of ginger germplasm maintained at the institute. During 2005-2010, ginger germplasm accessions were evaluated for its bold rhizomes and identified 13 accessions with bold rhizomes. These genotypes along with a released variety IISR Varada were evaluated during 2013-2016 to assess the yield performance under Kerala conditions. The results indicated that in terms of yield, Acc. 247 performed significantly higher compared to the national check. Maximum yield per hectare was recorded in Acc.