 At 60, 90 and 120 ppm concentration, 100% mortality of larvae was recorded. The NRC for Mushroom, Solan, organized 6 training programmes, and one each of Kisan Goshti and Kisan Mela. FLORICULTURE ROSE Maximum plant height, number of flowers and stem length of cut flowers were obtained with the application of NPK @ 400 : 200 : 200 ppm. Diafancanazole @ 0.05% was effective in controlling powdery mildew followed by Hexaconazole @ 0.05% at Pune. Bavistin @ 0.1% controlled black spot at Ludhiana. Vase-life of rose cut stems was enhanced by pulsing treatment with a solution of sucrose (2%) + aluminium sulphate (300 ppm) at Ludhiana. Maximum vase-life was recorded in 1.5% sucrose + 300 ppm citric acid solution at Pune. Vigorously-growing Red Reishi mushroom DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 64 GLADIOLUS Gladiolus, Phule Prerana and Phule Neelrekha, have been released by MPKV, Pune. The NBRI, Lucknow, has developed mini chrysanthemum varieties, viz. NBRI Little Darling, NBRI Kusum, NBRI Indiana and NBRI Mini Jessie through conventional breeding. Benomyl 0.2% + Captan 0.3% was effective against Fusarium wilt and Fusarium corm rot in storage at Pune. Dithane M 45 (0.2%), Kavach (0.2%) and Rovral (0.2%) were found effective in controlling Botrytis blight along with improvement in cormel yield. At Pune, sucrose (4%) + aluminium sulphate (300 ppm) + sodium hypochlorite (25 ppm) increased vase-life of cut spikes. Holding solution containing 8-HQC (250 ppm) and sucrose (1.0%) was effective in opening of flower buds, increasing vase-life, floret size and longevity of flowers of Eurovision and White Prosperity at Lucknow. Packaging with polythene sleeves for 24 hr was best for floret opening, floret size and vase-life. CHRYSANTHEMUM Six sprays of chlorothlonil 0.2% or Mancozeb 0.02% at 15 days interval starting the first spray immediately at the disease appearance was found effective in controlling leaf blight disease, increasing flower yield and monetary returns. Application of Dithane M 45 (0.2%) at 15 days interval has been recommended for the control of leaf spot at Ludhiana. At Pune, chlorothlonil (0.2%) proved most effective in controlling leaf blight disease. Wrapping with butter paper was better than other materials in spray chrysanthemums at Lucknow. ORCHID A cheap method of micropropagation of orchids has been developed using isabgol as gelling agent and polypropylene bags as culture vessels at Barapani. Work has been initiated on the performance and cost : benefit ratio of low-cost polytunnels for providing suitable growing conditions to orchids. Crosses have been attempted to develop superior hybrids of cymbidium. Potting mixture with equal proportion of leaf-mould, FYM and sawdust has been found suitable for development of new shoots. ANTHURIUM Anthurium plants grown under 80% shade level with closed sides produced highest number of leaves and good quality of flowers with highest spike, spathe and spadix length.