 They are applied in bleeding piles, bowel infection and urinary complaints. The root is pasted and applied over body as a sedative in fever. A perennial, diocious climber with tuberous root found through out India from Himalayas to Sri Lanka up to an altitude of 1500 m. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 363 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 194 Moringa pterygosperma Drumstick tree H-Shajna B-Sajina M-Shevgi G-Midhosaragavo Tel-Mulaga T-Murungai Kan-Nugge Mal-Murinna All parts of the tree are considered medicinal and used in the treatment of ascites, rheumatism, venomous bites and as cardiac and circulatory stimulants. The root of the young tree and also root bark are rubefacient and vasicant. The leaves are rich in Vitamin A and C, and are considered useful in curvy and catrrah affection. They are also used as emetic. A paste of leaves is used as an external application for wounds. Flowers are used as tonic, diuretic and cholagogue. The seeds are considered antipyretic, acrid and bitter. The seed oil applied in rheumatism in gout. A small or medium sized tree about 10 m high, found wild in sub-Himalayan tract, from Chenab east wards to Sarda and cultivated all over the plains of India. The tree is indigenous to north-west India. 195 Morus alba White mulberry H- Tut B- Tut M- Tut G-Shetur Tel-Reshme T-Musukette Kan- Hiponerie O-Teto The leaves are good source of ascorbic acid (200-300 mg/100 g). Mulberry leaves are principled diaphoretic and emollient. Decoction of leaves is used as gargle. The fruit is cooling and laxative. It is used for sore throat, dyspepsia and melancholia. The root is reported to possess anthelmintic and astringent properties. The bark is used as a purgative and vermifuge. A monoccious occasionally dioccous shrub, moderate sized tree with a fairly straight grow up to 3 m high. It is indigenous to China. It is extensively cultivated through out the plains of India and in the hilly areas of Himalayas up to an elevation of 3,300 m. 196 Moschosma polystachyum - - The crushed leaves are used as external application to sprains. Decoction of leaves is given as a sedative for epilepsia, palpitation of heart, neuralgia and convulsions. The juice of plant is used in curing headache in children. A herbaceous, erect, much branched annual, 60–100 cm high found in wet places in Bihar, West Bengal, from Nellore south-wards to south Travancore, Konkan and Gujarat. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 364 Sl. No.