 The objective of this scheme is to provide farmers, particularly small and marginal ones, with required information, knowledge and advisories on regular basis by adopting villages. During interaction with scientists, farmers put forth their issues like, apropos technological availability, loans, market price, extension programmes and support provided by different agencies, etc. MGMG has been implemented by 121 institutions (ICAR institutes and SAUs) during the period under report). A total of 1,154 groups involving 4,417 scientists covered 4,055 villages, conducted 41,402 field activities including awareness, demonstrations, training, meetings, etc. by which 66,2916 farmers have been benefited. Pulses seed-hubs: Seed-hubs have been set-up at 95 KVKs for production of quality seeds of major pulse crops. During the year, 34,728.25 q seeds of pigeon pea, blackgram, greengram, lentil, chickpea, field pea and lathayrus were produced and made available to farmers. Crop residue management: The states of Punjab, Haryana and western Uttar Pradesh, also known as the birthplace of Indian Green Revolution, are the major Integrated Farming System Hatching of Kadaknath Eggs SUCCESS STORY Duck farming provided lucrative income to Shri Baijnath Mahto during COVID-19 Farmers of Ramgarh district, Jharkhand, were mainly growing the cereal crops and vegetables. The farmer Sri Baijnath Mahto, resident of village Takha, block, Mandu, Ramgarh has started duckery unit under the technical guidance of KVK, Ramgarh. Training and exposure was provided by KVK in the January 2020. He started with 500 birds of Khaki Campbell ducklings, which started egg production from April 2020 in a range of about 80–100 eggs/day. Further, he integrated duck farming with fisheries and vegetable cultivation for higher return. For vaccination and diagnostic services, he linked with animal husbandry department, Jharkhand. During COVID-19 period, he lost farm income but he received ` 72,000 income through selling of eggs during the year which was helpful for his family livelihood. Module-wise no. of demonstrations/programmes Direct Seeding of Rice with drum seeder (KVK, Chittoor, Andhra Pradesh) Check dam filled with rainwater – KVK, Chikkaballapur, Karnataka Animal health camp – KVK, Jodhpur, Rajasthan TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 147 contributors to the national food basket for paddy and wheat. Most of the farmers of these states generally resort to burn paddy straw in the field itself due to short window (10–20 days) for timely planting of ensuing crops. The enormous burning, that too within a span of 15 days, leads to atmospheric pollution problems, massive nutritional losses and deterioration of physical and biological health of the soil.