 It can be cultivated in tropical wet zone or intermediate zone as well as dry zone with the irrigation facilities. Heavy rain fall areas are partially suitable for the crop. Generally, an altitude up to 1500 m altitude is suitable for the cultivation. Three types of Dragon fruit types, viz., Red skinned fruit with white and pink/red pulp and third one has yellow skin with white pulp. Red and pink pulp cultivars showed better adaptability to a wide range of climate and yield potential compared to white pulp cultivars. Value addition and processing Presently, fresh juice of dragon fruit is sold in Indian market. Many value added products can be produced on commercial scale with attractive colour without adding any synthetic colour as fruit contains bright purplish to pink colour pigment. Different products include ready- to-serve beverage (RTS), squash, fermented beverage, jelly, osmotically dehydrated cubes or slices, frozen cubes or slices, ice cream, flavored milk and yoghurt can be prepared from the dragon fruit. Arka RTS beverage technology is developed and commercialized from ICAR- IIHR; Bengaluru can be helpful for startup business. Techno-Economic Feasibility Dragon fruit being a perennial climber requires natural or artificial support adjacent to them. Thus, the provision of properly designed artificial support is essential for the proper growth of the plant. At IIHR, Bengaluru, four different trellis systems (a single pole with cement ring, single pole with an iron ring, continuous pyramid stands, and ‘T’ stands) were evaluated for their suitability for the support system. Single pole system showed better performance in terms of growth and yield when comparatively other trellis systems. A technology for off season production is in progress, trial has been initiated in farmers field for the producing off-seasonal fruits by adopting technology of LED bulbs (14w 1500 lumens). Further in dragon fruit it is very important to manage sunburn injury. To overcome this problem dragon fruits were grown under shade net house and anti-transpirants [kaolinite (50 g per litre of water) plus neem soap (4 g per litre of water) along with sea weed extract and humic acid (4 mL per litre of water)] were sprayed during the month of January, March and April resulted in reduction of damages caused by sun burn. Further, filler crop (drumstick/sesbania/glyricidia) can also give some level of control from the physiological injury. However, under heavy shade the plants may become etiolated with reduced flowering and production levels, thus minimal amount of shade is advocated to prevent bleaching of the stems. These technologies can be adopted for good horticulture practice in Northeastern regions. Dragon fruit provides fast return with economic production in the first year after planting (1.5 t/acre accommodated 448 poles), and full production is attained within 3-4 years. The life expectancy of the crop is about 20 years.