 The kit will allow the farmer to monitor soil health without much scientific skill and equipment. Desertification/land degradation map of Rajasthan ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 11 SOIL AND WATER PRODUCTIVITY Minor millet based agroforestry systems in foothills of NW Himalayas Small millets play a pivotal role towards nutritional security. The Morus alba + finger millet-wheat based agro-forestry system (AFS) in foothills of north-western Himalayas (Dehradun) on 4% slope was found to be most potential for soil-water conservation, productive and environmentally sustainable agro-forestry system among different land uses as it produced 1.4 and 3.1 tonnes/ha of finger millet and wheat grain, respectively. The recorded runoff was minimum at 21.6% with the soil loss of 12.6 tonnes/ha in comparison to cultivated fallow of 32.9% and 30.2 tonnes/ha, respectively, indicating the higher relative potential for soil-water conservation. It recorded the highest organic carbon of 0.68 which was 2.24 times higher than initial value as that of other soil fertility parameters. While the soil conservation efficiency of multi-purpose trees (MPTs), millet crops and tree-crop combinations was 21, 30 and 36%, respectively, in ascending order and the runoff conservation efficiency was 13.1, 22.4 and 32.6, respectively. The soil fertility and structure parameters showed marked improvements in tree-crop combinations of the agro-forestry systems land uses. Organic carbon increased from 0.27 to 0.62% in tree-crop combinations, 0.26 to 0.47% in sole trees and 0.27 to 0.41% in sole field crops. The AFS also produced the highest 3.7 and 3.3 tonnes/ha of fresh fodder and dry fuel wood, respectively. Overall, it recorded the highest system productivity with B : C ratio of 1.88 and net returns of 1.19 lakh/ha/yr besides the soil- water conservation potential. Mini pan evaporimeter for on-farm irrigation scheduling: For scientific irrigation scheduling an inexpensive and easy to use small size pan evaporimeter was developed for on-farm irrigation scheduling by the farmers. The evaporation data recorded using mini pan evaporimeters and USWB Class A pan at ICAR–Indian Institute of Water Management research farm, Bhubaneswar, Odisha were compared for summer, kharif and rabi seasons. The regression analysis showed that 30 cm GI mini pan had highest regression coefficient (0.86–0.89) with USWB Class A pan followed by 20 cm GI mini pan evaporimeter (0.80–0.87). Field evaluation of mini pan evaporimeters (GI mini pan with 30 and 20 cm diameter) for on-farm irrigation scheduling against USWB Class A open pan evaporimeter during kharif, rabi and summer seasons showed that the crop (paddy in kharif, tomato in rabi and maize in summer) yield and yield parameter, and water requirement did not vary significantly with irrigation scheduling using mini pan evaporimeter and USWB Class A pan treatments.