 Light irrigation at morning and nursery beds are covered with polythene sheets or dry paddy straw. About 15-20 cm tall seedlings are chosen for planting. Planting during spring (February-March), monsoon (June-July) and autumn (October- November). Spacing of 1.8 x 1.8 m. is normally followed. However higher density cultivation with spacing of 1.5 x 1.5 m. /ha enhances the returns. Pusha Nanha is adopted for high density planting,6400 plants/ha. Papaya plant needed heavy doses of manures and fertilizers. Apart from the basal dose of manures @10 kg /plant applied in the pits, 200-250g. each of N, P2O5 and K2O getting high yield. ZnSO4 (0.5%) ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 161 and H2 BO3 (0.1%) are sprayed to increase growth and yield. The irrigation schedule is fixed based on soil type and weather conditions of the region and avoid waterlogging. Deep hoeing is recommended during the first year to check weed growth. Application of Fluchloralin or Alachlorin or Butachlorine (2.0 g./ha.) as pre-emergence. Intercropping shallow rooted leguminous crops after non- leguminous is beneficial. About 10% of the male plants are kept in the orchards for good pollination. The insect/pests mostly observed are fruit flies (Bactrocera cucurbitae), grosshopper (Poekilocerus pictus), aphids (Aphis gossypii), red spider mite (Tetranychus cinnabarinus), stem borer (Dasyses rugosellus) and grey weevil (Myllocerus viridans). control by Dimethoate (0.3%) or methyl demeton (0.05%). The main diseases reported are powdery mildew (Oidium caricae), anthracnose (Colletotrichum gloeosporioides), damping off and stem rot. Application of wettable sulphur (1 g/l.) carbendazim/ thiophanate methyl (1 g./l.) and Kavach/ Mancozeb (2 g./l.) are effective control measures Full size fruits are harvested when they turn light green in colour with tinge of yellow at apical end. The economic life of papaya plant is only 3 to 4 years. The average yield of 75-100 tones /ha. Fruits are highly perishable in nature. They can be stored for a period of 1-3 weeks at a temperature of 10- 13oC and 85-90% relative humidity. Guava Guava is grown in both tropical and sub-tropical regions. Heavy clay to very light sandy soil having pH between 4.5-8.2 and good quality in river basins but sensitive to waterlogging. Varieties: L-49, Allahabad Safeda, Lucknow Safeda, Apple Colour, Chittidar, Red Fleshed, Allahabad Surkha, Sardar, Mirzapuri Seedless, CISH-G-1, CISH-G-2, CISH-G-3. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 162 Land is prepared during the summer season by ploughing, harrowing, leveling and removing weeds. Planting is done during the rainy season June-July is the ideal time for planting at 5-8 m distance according to variety, soil fertility and availability of irrigation facilities. Fertilizer 600 g. N, 400 g. K should be applied in the first week of May for rainy season and July for winter season crop. Drip irrigation is very beneficial and 60% of the water saved. Pre-emergence uses of diuron (1.