 Copper fungicides should not be used because of the extreme susceptibility of oil palm seedlings to copper burn (scorching). A preventive spray of Chlorothalonil @ 2.5 g/1 of water or Propiconazole, Azoxystrobin or Difenconazol at 0.1 percent are effective and can be used to combat the disease can be repeated at 15 days interval. Curative spray with any the above fungicide can be done at 7-10 days interval. Diseases in Main Field Basal Stem Rot (BSR): It is caused by the fungus Ganoderma boninense. The early symptoms of BSR infection are similar to those of drought owing to blocking of water and nutrient uptake by the residing fungus. Palms show abnormal foliar symptoms such as one-sided mottling of the canopy, flattening of the crown, multiple unopened spears and drying of lower leaves (skirting). At the advanced stage, formation of basidiocarps can be seen at the lowest stem of fully infected oil palm trunks. Ultimately, palms collapse due to disintegration of woody tissues. As early identification of the disease is difficult in this case, Integrated Disease Management concept by combining cultural, chemical and biological methods is always an effective strategy. Isolation of the affected palms by digging a trench (1 m deep and 0.5 m width) 1.5 m away from main trunk followed by drenching with chemicals such as formaldehyde. Basin application of Trichoderma sp., multiplied on completely decomposed farm yard manure @ 5-15 kg per palm at 3 months intervals. Regular application of 5 kg neem cake or Trichoderma fortified neem cake (1:100) per palm per year. Root feeding of hexaconazole 5EC (5 ml per 100 ml of water) thrice a year at quarterly intervals. Complete removal and destruction of the dead palms, stumps, boles and major root masses in the bole region. Bud Rot (BR): Bud rot is a complex disease of unknown etiology. In India, disease incidence is more during monsoon season particularly October-November. The disease begins with appearance of necrotic lesions in the middle of unopened spear and descend towards the meristematic zone. Necrosis of tissue invites colonization of several pathogenic and saprophytic organisms culminating in to bud rot in the final stage. Rotting begins at the basal portion, close to the meristem, and the spear emerges with a gentle pull. Rotten tissues have an unpleasant odour. The management includes: Manage the attack of red palm weevil and rhinoceros beetle. As a preventive measure, Spraying or crown drenching of the spear cluster with Chlorothalonil @ 1% (3ml) + Plantamycin (2 g) in 300 ml water once during the onset of monsoon and another during post-monsoon season. Crown surgery is done by cutting and removal of rotten tissues, cleaning with 3% sodium hypochlorite followed by fast flaming, smearing of Chlorothalonil @ 1% or Hexaconazole @ 0.2%. The exposed portion should be covered with dried leaves or perforated polyphone sheet.