 Anisophalins rumphii Stembark, leaf, fruit, gum, pulp of kavitha (Feronia elephentum) contain citric acid and are used as astrigent, stomachic, stimulant, acrid, aromatic, carminative, astringent, used for venomous insect bites, reptiles, salivation, sorethroat, bilioiusness. Parabia et al. (2000) 265 Medical uses of Prunus domestica, P.communis, P.inisititia Furit that contains seed-oil, malic acid, pectin, albuminoids is used as cooling agent, laxative, astrigent, bilious state, body heat, enlarged liver, gonorrhoea, piles, leucorrhoea, irregular menstruation. Parabia et al. (2000) 228 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 266 Medicinal uses of Curcuma longa: C.domestica Tuber, rhizome of haldi (Curcuma longa) which contain curcumin, aromatic turmeric oil, terpenoids, Juvabaine are used as carminative, cooling agent, stomachic, astringent, antiinflammatory, antihistamine, antibacterial and also used in bronchitic, respiratory disorders, cough, cold, in gasteric disorders. Parabia et al. (2000) 267 Medicinal uses of Commelina benghalensis Kanchara (Commelina benghalensis) contain n-octacosanol, n- tricontanol, stigma-sterol, compesterol which are used as demulcent, refrigerant, laxative, bitter, emollient and in leprosy. Parabia et al. (2000) 268 Medical use of guggul Gum, resin and essential oil of guggul (Balsamodendron mukul) contain myrcene act as astringent antiseptic, antispasmodic, diaphoretic, echbolic, antisupurative, aphrodisiac, emmenagogue, anti rheumatic and antihyperlipidimic. Parabia et al. (2000) 269 Medicinal use of Jatropha Leaf, seed and root of danti (Baliospermum axillare) are the medicinally important parts. Oil is extracted from seed which is used as drastic purgative, stimulant, rubifacient, hydragogue, cathartic. Seed acts against snake bites, leaf cures asthama and oil cures rheumatism. Parabia et al. (2000) 270 Medicinal use of hingol Stem bark, leaf, fruit and seed of hingol (Balanites rozburghii)are the useful parts containing saponin, organic acid, mucilage and sugar. Stem bark, unripe fruit and leaf are used as purgative, anthelmintic. Seed is used in curing cough, burns, excoriations, freckles and colic. Fruit cures snake bite. Parabia et al. (2000) 271 Neem and its medicinal importance for cattle Entire plant of neem (A. indica )is useful containing margosine and seed contains bitter oil. Leaf, seed and fruit are used as antibacterial, antiviral, insecticide, bitter tonic, antiseptic. Fruit used as astringent purgative. Gum is used as demulcent. Leaf used as emmenagogue, anthelmintic. Dry flower used as stomachic, oil used as antiseptic irritant. Leaf used in skin disease, abortion, foot and mouth diseases and its bark for dengue fever. Plant used as alternate feed and fodder during drought. Flower used to cure blindness in sheep/goats. Fruits are used in leprosy, bronchitis, intestinal worms. Oil in rheumatism. Parabia et al.