 Š Š Standardization of fishing vessels and restrictions of their endurance and capacities would also be needed for reduction of fishing effort and hence by catch of juveniles. Š Š Delimitation of an appropriate proportion of the fishing ground as Marine Protected Area (MPA) is one the most effective measures to unequivocally prevent overfishing, shelter spawning biomass and protects the ecosystem services, on a long-term sustainable basis. Š Š Implementation of the Minimum Legal Size (MLS), based on scientific advice must be enforced towards disincentivising juvenile fish capture and landing. Š Š Area closures and temporal closures of fishing operations in affected areas and seasons, based on historical data on peak juvenile by catch abundance should be used fruitfully for juvenile by catch reduction. Š Š Juvenile mortality in shrimp fish trawl systems should be reduced by using specially designed BRDs for juvenile exclusion such as Juvenile Fish Excluder cum Shrimp Sorting Device (JFE- SSD) and Juvenile and Trash Excluder Device (JTED). FS 4 i Name of the Applicant Swadeshi Science Movement, Kerala ii Title 26th Swadeshi Science Congress iii Venue and Date(s) 7-9 November, 2016 at Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute (CMFRI), Kochi, Kerala iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakhs v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(64)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendation: Š Š New technologies to harvest untapped tuna and other deep sea fishes as well as preserving the catch without compromising the quality should be developed. FISHERIES SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 70 FS 5 i Name of the Applicant ICAR- Inland Fisheries Society of India (IFSI), Barrackpore, Kolkata ii Title National Seminar on Priorities in Fisheries and Aquaculture iii Venue and Date(s) 11-12 March, 2017 at College of Fisheries, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Rangeilunda, Berhampur, Odisha iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(113)/2016-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š Diversification of aquaculture practices with high value indigenous fish species and genetic improvement of cultured species is required for doubling the income of farmers. Š Š Cat fish culture with emphasis on Pabda (Ompok bimaculatus) and Magur (Clarias batrachus) and integrated farming system should be promoted in North Eastern States. Š Š Popularization and dissemination of cage culture technology should be taken up in reservoirs as a means of intensive fish production with emphasis on species diversification for sustainability and profitability. Š Š Exotic fishes like African catfish, big headcarp and tilapia should not be promoted for culture in enclosures in open waters. Š Š Prioritization of ecosystem based management model for reservoir and wetland fisheries development; bringing potential small reservoirs and wetlands under culture based fisheries regime for improving per unit water productivity is the need of the hour.