 Okra: In the last five years, Okra has become the most valuable vegetable crop in India both in terms of increased popularity and high revenues for not only the seed sector but also the small farmer. The acreage per unit area yields have seen huge increases in last decade rising from 4.6 t/ha in 2011 to 6.8 t/ha in 2018 and 13.5 t/ha in 2021 as per FAO Stats. Hence the production increase has been largely due to genetic gain for yield and not just increased acreage (Fig 3). From a seed revenue of `₹91 crore in 2011 the same has reached ₹`750 crore in 2019. Estimated 2020-21 revenue was `1,000 cr. This transformation was started by the release of highly popular YVMV resistant varieties like Parbhani Kranti by Drs Y S Nerkar and N D Jhambale from Parbhani; Arka Anamika by Dr O P Dutta from ICAR-IIHR, Bengaluru and Varsha Uphaar by Dr B.S.Dhankar from HAU, Hisar. By 1990 the first hybrids of Okra, Vijay and Varsha by IAHS, Bengaluru appeared in the market that showed improved yields over OP’s to around 20-25%. This was followed by a market leading hybrids Sun 40 and Sun 8 by the author in 1994. Hybrids by other private sector companies with significant market share kept on getting introduced, viz. MH 10 by Mahyco; Sl 152 by Syngenta; Avantika by BioSeeds; Shakti by Nunhems; JK 7315 by JK Seeds; US 7109 by Seed Works etc during 2001 to 2014. Their popularity kept increasing because of their stable virus resistance and better yield over OP’s. The game changer has been the release of the short internoded strongly virus resistant hybrids, like Radhika where good tolerance to the other important menace Okra Leaf Curl Virus (OLCV) was combined with YVMV by Advanta which has helped increase yields over previous hybrids by about 20%. The spread to the smallest farmer, who grow 80% of our food, has been relatively easy as no changes in their agro-techniques were needed for them to adopt the new hybrid/s. Fig 3 also summarizes the transition and progress in the crop from 1961 to 2019. One of the key factors for success by private sector has been the selection of early generations under hot spots within the country followed by multilocation hybrid evaluation across the country to help reject nonstable hybrids. In Fig 3 one can also see the pod segment potential, green and purple already in the market. Seven ridge types and baby okra are also in pipeline. Hot and sweet peppers: Among peppers, impact in peppers from private sector has been on Hot Pepper (Chillies) while on Sweet Pepper (Simla Mirch) the impact is more on hybrids for protected culture. The two main segments in hot pepper have been the Dry and Fresh Green and over time a dual segment has also emerged where farmers harvest green chillies a few times and then leave the rest to dry on plant and harvest the red ripe and dry fruits for spices at the end. Product Fig. 3.