 Assessment of heat stress in pigs: The whole transcriptome changes in indigenous (Mali) and exotic (Hampshire) pigs during summer and winter were examined. Considering the size of pig genome, whole transcriptome sequencing was done. The RNA sequencing generated an average 110.54 million of 100bp paired reads per sample. About 88.35% of reads were mapped to the reference Sus scrofa genome. The Stressol –G, herbal powder based bolus to reduce the climatic stress in goats Venn diagram showing significantly up-regulated genes in indigenous (Mali) and Exotic (Hampshire) during two different seasons (Summer Vs Winter) Venn diagram showing significantly down-regulated genes in indigenous (Mali) and Exotic (Hampshire) during two different seasons (Summer Vs Winter) CLIMATE CHANGE AND RESILIENT AGRICULTURE DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 20 analysis revealed 421 upregulated and 802 down regulated genes and several gene isoforms differentially expressed due to change in ambient temperature in Hampshire breed. Indigenous Mali pigs recorded only 14 upregulated and 45 down regulated genes in response to change in ambient temperature indicating better adaptation.  4. Genetic Resources Crops Germplasm augmentation, conservation and use: Total 21 explorations were undertaken and 1,532 accessions were collected comprising 1,095 cultivated and 437 wild accessions. The explorations were undertaken mainly two each in Andhra Pradesh, Assam, Chhattisgarh, Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and one each in Andaman and Nicobar, Arunachal Pradesh, Karnataka, Nagaland, Odisha, Tripura and Uttarakhand. The population of Momordica cochinchinensis collected from the middle Andaman Island was described as a new subspecies, i.e. Momordica cochinchinensis subsp. andamanica, which was subsequently validated through DNA barcoding of matK and rbcL chloroplast loci. During the period, 411 herbarium specimens were added to the National Herbarium of Cultivated Plants. Germplasm added to the National Genebank for long-term storage comprised 2,821 accessions of orthodox seed species and 15,399 accessions of regenerated material. Ten accessions were added to the in-vitro Genebank and 581 accessions of seeds (291), pollen (4) and genomic resources (286) of different crop species were successfully cryostored. A total of 28,516 accessions were imported from 39 countries. Additionally, 8,239 entries (26,352 samples) of CGIAR trials/nurseries were also imported.