 The Karewas of Kashmir and kandi areas of Jammu region are best suited for dry farming, horticulture and fodder crops. The side valleys should be earmarked for fodder cultivation and cultivation of medicinal plants. However, these examples are illustrative and demonstrate the need for evolving the micro-region specific diversification strategies. Comprehensive cost of cultivation studies needs to be conducted in each zone. Š Š The farmers of the Ladakh region have successfully experimented the cultivation of vegetables in the poly green houses. Three varieties of tomato namely SL-12, PED and AC-238 and N-13 Nasik red onion have shown a positive result in production. Among other vegetables are brinjal, capsicum, broccoli, green chilli and paprica. This can ensure supply of vegetables to metropolitan cities during off-season and fetch a good price. From Ladakh the only viable mode of transport is air freight. Hence there is a need for working out an arrangement so that quick transportation of these products can be organized. Š Š The state government should also encourage the production of high-value, low volume crops like saffron, black zeera and other spices. The Kashmir region is ideally suited for the cultivation of these kinds of non-traditional crops. It has been observed that during the past three years the area coverage and production of the spices has been constantly declining. Š Š The state has extensive inland water bodies, particularly in the valley, which provide excellent habitat for almost any kind of temperate fish. The lakes cover an estimated 0.3 lakh hectare, predominantly in the valley (about 98 per cent of total). River Jhelum flowing, over 162 km in the valley, with its extensive tributaries has enough potential to sustain fish production. The Indus river system has carps, catfishes, the exotic rainbow and brown trouts. The trouts of Kashmir are very rich and attract sport fish enthusiasts. The state offers a favourable habitat for sport-fish like trout in its cold-water streams, particularly State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 232 in the Lidder and Sindh valleys. Paddy-cum-fish culture is gaining rapid ground in the tropics and subtropics but not in temperate climate. Fish farming as an adjunct to paddy cultivation has a lot of potential either as integrated simultaneous crops or as different crops in the same lands in alternate seasons. Such possibilities with particular reference to compatible fish species should be studied scientifically and a package of technical and management practices evolved for propagation among farmers. Š Š To improve marketing of fish, particularly the fish harvested in Jammu region, which is closer to the Punjab, the possibility of selling fish in the neighbouring Punjab districts of Gurudaspur, Amritsar, Jalandhar and Ludhiana should be explored and private enterprise encouraged for the marketing of fish.