 Strengthening of and Compliance with Quality Assurance Policies and Mechanisms In 1996, ICAR established Accreditation Board with three sectoral committees and developed comprehensive accreditation system to regulate the quality of agricultural education in the country. The new process of accreditation has been welcomed by all AUs and so far many universities have been accredited and others are in the process of accreditation. Through implementation of the new process for over ten years, many of the short comings have come to fore. Need has been felt to develop a new system of accreditation which will be objective, transparent and enable periodic monitoring of quality improvement efforts made by the academic institutions. There is also need for convergence of accreditation system among different national and international agencies. The Accreditation Board needs to be further strengthened and provided power on the pattern of NAAC, so that it leads to not only compliance for quality improvement but also a mechanism for continuous improvement in the quality of education. There is also need to develop policy papers in respect of academic regulations, norms and standards as well as personal policies for sustaining quality of higher agricultural education. Developing the capacity of an institution for continuous internal quality evaluation is critical and will be addressed. 2.7.1.3. Human Resource Need Assessment– Strategic Planning for 2030 Presently human resource development is largely based on adhocism in total disregard of man power need assessment in different sectors of Agriculture for example, large State like Bihar has a very limited intake in Agriculture compared to Maharashtra which admits disproportionately high number of students. Sectorally, there is a high demand for competent human resource in the area of Veterinary and Animal Sciences Dairy Technology, Food Technology, Horticulture, Fisheries andAgri Business Management but the number of graduates coming out in these disciplines is lower than the requirement. In fact, there is no creditable system of human resources need assessment. In order to have proper and adequate development of human resources, it is necessary that human resources planning is undertaken on scientific basis so that enrollment in disciplines is regulated. This would require need assessment for professionals in specific subject areas, review of their 15 training needs for sustainable performance and career advancement. It would also be important to consider knowledge and skill profile needs of prospective job market. Therefore, man power need assessment and organization of workshops sectorally at national level and involvement of different stakeholders in review and assessment of skilled human resources sectorally will be undertaken. 2.7.1.4.