 Phylogenetic analysis indicated clade 2 of the Florida sub-lineage of the H3N8 virus. ICAR-NRCE developed Achievements in Animal Health Management in Independent India 247 an inactivated low-cost vaccine using a virus from the outbreak of 1987. Subsequently, an updated inactivated equine influenza vaccine was developed during 2008-09, which was followed by a recombinant vaccine candidate through reverse genetic engineering. ICAR- NRCE has also developed several diagnostics including haemagglutination-inhibition (HI) assay for serological diagnosis, RT-PCR, qRT-PCR, monoclonal antibody-based sandwich ELISA, RT-PCR for subtyping of EI virus, and immunohistochemical diagnosis. 7.3. Equine herpesvirus infections Equine herpesviruses (EHV1 and EHV4) are the most important pathogens that infect 80 to 90% of horses by two years of age, resulting in respiratory infection, characterized by fever, anorexia, nasal and ocular discharge. EHV1 causes upper respiratory tract infection in young horses at the time of weaning, abortion in pregnant mares, neonatal foal mortality, and neurological disorders. Abortion is economically most crippling outcome of EHV1 infection with 95% of EHV1 associated abortions occurring in the last four months of pregnancy. Abortions in pregnant mares range from 4-8% in organized horse breeding farms in India, which is the major cause of economic losses in equine industry. For timely diagnosis of EHV1, NRCE has developed various diagnostic assays including HERP kit in 2003, monoclonal antibody-based blocking ELISA kit in 2008 and recombinant protein- based ELISA for differentiation of EHV1 and EHV4 infection (NRCE Annual report 2016- 17 and 2017-18). These diagnostics have contributed towards timely diagnosis and control of disease in equine population. In addition, an effective inactivated vaccine ‘Equiperabort’ for control of abortions in pregnant mares has been developed (Singh et al. 2009a). This vaccine has been extensively tested in field trials and is now being used in organized equine farms, including Equine Breeding Studs of Indian Army. 7.4. Equine infectious anemia Equine infectious anaemia (EIA) is a persistent viral infection of equids, caused by Lentivirus of Retroviridae family. The EIAV is mechanically transmitted from infected to susceptible equids by biting horse flies, deer flies and stable fly. Once a horse is infected with EIAV, it remains infected for rest of the life and a potential source of infection to other horses. There is neither effective vaccine nor treatment for this disease. It is one of the notifiable equine diseases, which entails implementation of strict control policy including elimination of the sero-positive equids. ICAR-NRCE has been regularly monitoring EIAV infection in the country. In India, first case of EIA was detected in race horses in Karnataka in 1987 (Uppal and Yadav 1989).