 Overview icar annual report 2022-23 9 A power tiller operated groundnut digger has been developed with field capacity of 0.07-0.11 ha/h and digging efficiency of 97.6%. A tractor operated potato digger developed which performs three operations, viz. digging of potato tubers (two rows), separation of potatoes from soil and collection of potatoes in the collection unit. The average field capacity and output capacity have been 0.12 ha/hr, 2,700 kg/hr for sandy loam soil and 0.11 ha/hr, 2,685 kg/hr for loamy soil, respectively. A digital flume with the Internet of Things (IoT) connectivity has been developed and tested to continuously measure the flow rates in open channels. Utilizing the IoT, the developed digital flume measures the discharge and transmits data wirelessly for storage on cloud (ThingSpeak). It was tested in the field under varying discharge conditions in the field channel. It can be utilized for irrigation water measurement in the field channel for management of available irrigation water. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition: Post-harvest treatment machines for pre-cooling, washing, warm water treatment, anti- microbial treatment, anti-browning, and pulsed light treatment to the freshly harvested fruits and vegetables developed. It also has an inspection conveyor to sort out the deformed and damaged products. The capacity of the machine is 1.2 t/hr for capsicum,1.0 t/hr for apple at a linear belt speed of 5 m/min.The peeling machine for medicinal tuber crops has been developed with peeling efficiency of ~ 92% for Safed musli and 55% for Shatavari and capacity of ~15-20 kg/hr which is thirty times higher than manual operation. An electronic sensing system (e-Nose) has been developed in collaboration with C-DAC Kolkata for the real-time health monitoring of the onions, potatoes, and tomatoes in storage. The machine for popping of sorghum, amaranth, finger millet, kodo millet, and other small grains including rice, and corn developed with a capacity of 1.4-2 kg/hr and 60-70% popping recovery for sorghum and amaranth. To provide easy, fast and non-destructive method for detection of pea flour adulteration in besan, near infra-red spectroscopy (NIRS) model has been developed which can be used to predict adulteration of besan with pea flour. A novel process based on microbial precipitation process to produce protein isolates/concentrates from oilseed cakes/meals has been developed. This method increased 5% yield as compared to the chemical process. The protein produced is superior in terms of solubility, wettability, water absorption capacity and degree of hydrolysis. Multi-nutrient biscuits with high satiety value, appealing taste and 21% higher acceptability on a sensory scale over commercial biscuits.