 7 Action: DDG (NRM) Agenda 9: NAIP: Up-to-date progress and implementation issues The ND (NAIP) briefed the house regarding the development in NAIP programme for the information for all the AUs. The issues flagged requiring immediate attention by the AUs included: (i) the financial management manual as available on ICAR web-page needs to be critically seen and implemented, (ii) The AUCs 2007 – 08 are to be made available and audited annual accounts to be submitted by 30.6.2009 by the empanelled CAs, (iii) low utilization of funds is a serious concern which needs to be attended, and (iv) immediate outputs are to be documented and submitted. Action: All VCs Agenda 10: ICT-Initiatives under NAIP The ND (NAIP) briefed the house regarding the development in ICT-Initiatives under NAIP for the information for all the AUs. He told that NAIP has approved several ICT initiatives relating to e-learning [e-courses in B.Sc (Agriculture), B.V.Sc and A.H, B.Sc (Hort.) and B.F.Sc, B.Sc. (Home Science) degree programmes] dynamic agro-website, e-resources in agriculture (CeRA), Krishi Prabha, redesigning the farmer-extension-agriculture research/education continuum with ICT mediated knowledge management, development of Central Data Center and Secured Intranet etc. The others in the pipeline include establishing commodity portal, library information system, market intelligence etc which are at different stages of implementation. It was desired to require complete understanding, full participation and active cooperation for maximum utilization by the system. Action: All VCs Agenda 11: XI Plan Initiatives of Education Division, ICAR The ADG (EPD) highlighted various XI Plan initiatives taken in the field of agricultural education. He informed that the approved allocation of the Education Division is Rs. 2585 crores in comparison to Rs 1019.85 crore for the X Plan. The XI Plan allocation comprises (i) Rs 2276.65 crore for the scheme “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India”, (ii) Rs. 38.35 crores for NAARM, Hyderabad, and (iii) Rs. 170.00 crores for Special Grants to AUs. He presented a brief account of the new programmes like Modernization of AU Farms, funding to century-old historical agricultural colleges, Sports Complex, Educational Museums, Overseas Fellowships, faculty exchange, Guest, and Adjunct Faculty, Personality Development; Counseling of students; Tutorials for SC/ST students etc approved under XI Plan for the first time for implementation in AUs. The AUs appreciated the new initiatives and it was added to work out the feasibility of funding institutions which have completed 50 years of their establishment on the similar pattern of funding to century-old historical agricultural colleges. Also, It was opined that implementation of restructured Post-Graduate curricula and syllabi will require additional funding to AUs, the possibility of which needs to be explored. Action: DDG (Edu.