 Analysis of key genes involved in biosynthesis of curcumin in turmeric under nZnO and bZnO revealed enhanced curcumin content and expression of pathway genes viz., C4H, PAL, CURS3 and CLPKS-11 at 500 mg kg-1 nZnO compared to 1000 mg kg-1 (except PAL). In case of bZnO gene expression was downregulated under both treatments (except PAL), with no much difference in curcumin content between treatments. Effective delivery of nutrients, insecticides and fungicides through nanoparticulates and its effect on uptake and yield in groundnut and chilli: Nanoparticulates (N-ZnO, N-CaO, N-SiO2 ) were synthesized using sol-gel method. Protocols were standardized for the synthesis of nanoscale chitosan, nanoscale chitosan encapsulated mancozeb and imidacloprid particles. Seeds treated with 150 ppm and 200 Bright green flouroscence represents Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC) tagged N-SiO2. A) Longitudinal section of groundnut leaf showing transport and accumulation of FITC tagged N-SiO2 in apoplastic space. B) Control leaf showing no flouroscence (dark colour) (confocal microscopy) FITC Overlay UV-Filter 51 Salient Achievements of the Projects ppm nanoscale ZnO recorded significant 100 % germination, while highest seedling vigor index was recorded by treating with 200 ppm of nano ZnO (SVI - 1948) in chilli. Identical structures found on both sides of the leaves, irrespective of the stage of chilli crop. Flexural rigidity (ladder like Si) was observed to be 37 times higher with the application of nanoscale silica compared to the application of potassium orthosilicate (PSi) in chilli. Higher Nanoscale Si spray significantly increased catalase (CAT) activity and superoxide dismutase (SOD) activity in chilli, suggesting the polymerisation as the accumulation of silicon forms a layer beneath the cuticle which acts as chemical barrier by inducing formation of phenols. It was also demonstrated that nanoparticles of zinc, calcium and silicon are entering the leaf through the stomata by following the hydrophilic pathway. After entering the stomata, nanoparticles were found to be translocated by passing through the phloem and reaching the different parts and roots of groundnut plants by following the vascular system−phloem transport pathways in groundnut. Polymeric nano materials for packaging and efficient delivery of nutraceuticals: Shelf life of guava dices stored in the egg shell could be extended up to 14th day compared to only 6 days in the macro-perforated package. The same for papaya was up to 20th day in the egg shell compared to only 4 days under macro- perforated package. Different modifications of native starch and incorporation of plasticizers and functional compounds were tried to arrive at a suitable biodegradable film for subsequent use. Hydrophilic OH- MMT was prepared by simple ion exchange reaction method between THAC and Na+-MMT.