 Selection of pollinizer variety As in traditional system, we are using Golden Delicious and Red Gold as pollinizer, which do not fetch good price in market. New pollinizer variety like Gale Gala, Redlum Gala and Auvil Early Fuji are getting good market price and they can also be planted in the 33-40% ratio to increase the fruit set percentage and overall productivity. One of the major advantage of these pollinizing varieties is the synchronization of their flowering pattern with commercial variety. Auvil early Fuji is also a good pollinizing variety which is recommended for higher elevation as it does not develop colour at lower elevation. High density planting system in apple using clonal rootstock May–June 2021 11 Use of dwarfing rootstock The other important consideration is the use of appropriate dwarfing rootstocks which is the key component of high density planting system. The most successful high density orchards established to date have been on M.9 and B.9 rootstock. The yield efficiency and precocity of the Geneva rootstock are also being stated positive where fire blight is a concern. More vigorous rootstocks than these should only be used with the weakest growing varieties such as Spur Delicious. Malling 9 is an excellent rootstock for this system as are G.41, G.11, G.16, V2 and V3. Malling 26 rootstock should only be used for weaker growing varieties. The base of the tree where the rootstock has been planted should be approximately six inches above the soil. Planting distance It depends on the vigour of variety and rootstock and also on the soil strength. In high density orchards the density of plant should be approximately 500 to 600 trees/acre. The maximum spacing between trees should be 4-6 feet and 8-12 feet between rows depending on the elevation and the terrain of the land. Training system In high density orcharding, trees should be trained to modern methods of canopy management, viz. Tall Spindle, Vertical Axis and Slender Spindle, etc. Tall Spindle: In tall spindle system of training, our target should be to grow a tall narrow tree with a straight leader up to the top wire and a fruiting area well exposed to the sun. For it the ideal nursery tree should be at least 5 feet tall and preferably 6-7 feet. This tree should have an abundance of healthy roots and a dominant straight leader. It should have 8-12 feathers that are 15-30 cm long and they should be distributed at regular intervals along the leader. The maximum spacing between trees should be 4 feet and 12 feet between rows depending upon the vigour of rootstock and variety. The optimum Tall Spindle spacing for an average vigour variety and soil is 3 feet by 11 feet. While planting the lowest feather should at least be 60 cm above the soil and rootstock should be 10-15 cm above ground level. Pruning the new tree is discouraged therefore tying and training are more useful to encourage the healthy growth and to produce fruitful feathers.