4 District Level (a) Host organization: The Head of the grantee/host institution should exercise the overall supervision on effective functioning of KVK. (b) Head of KVK: Chief Scientist-cum-Head will be over all in charge of coordination and monitoring of mandated activities of KVK. The oversight function and advisory will be provided by the concerned Director of Extension Education and Zonal Project Director. The Head of KVK will have the following responsibilities: ●Appropriate follow up actions with respect to the suggestions made by Zonal Project Director, other ICAR officers and experts from SAUs during their visits. ●Conduct of monthly, quarterly and half yearly meetings at KVK for reviewing of the ongoing activities and future course of action and submit the proceedings to the concerned Director of Extension Education and Zonal Project Director. ●Conducting ex-trainees meeting for getting feedback ●Creation of farmer technocrats/technology agents/technology communicators/resource farmer/ para-technician through KVK mandatory activities to promote farmer led extension ●Impact assessment of selected technological interventions pursued through OFTs and FLDs ●Documentation of assessed and refined technologies through OFTs (c) Scientific Advisory Committee (SAC): It is an institutional arrangement to provide necessary technical and management guidance to KVK in developing effective technical programme, annual action plan and review of activities. KVKs should conduct one SAC meeting in each year and it should be held preferably during the second half of the financial year before the finalization of action plan. SAC meeting is to be chaired by the Vice-Chancellor/Director of ICAR Institute/Head of host Organizations of their respective KVKs. Since in SAUs there are more than one KVK, the SAC could be chaired by DEE in the absence of Vice- Chancellors. But SAC recommendations should be got approved from the Vice Chancellor only. Host organizations should prepare a calendar of SAC meetings in consultation with the concerned Zonal Project Director. The recommended composition of SAC is given below. 1. Head of the Host Institution Chairperson 2. Zonal Project Director or his nominee from ZPD Member 3. Director of Extension of concerned AU Member 4. Representative of ICAR Institute/ICAR Regional Research Station if located Member in the district or nearby. 5. Two experts in the rank of Professor representing crop sciences and animal Member sciences nominated by the head of host organization* 6. Project Director ATMA Member 7. Representative of NABARD Member 8. Two representatives from line departments (District Officer) as per the Member need and agenda of the meeting. 107 Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring 9. One progressive farmer (male/female) in the district nominated by head of Member host organization 10. One agri-entrepreneur in the district nominated by the head of host Member organization 11.