 These weights are adjusted during the training process to optimize model performance. x1 OQ Wi x2 O w2 Nepet Semenet aver . “ @) Middes 1 - w3 ; , y meron @ << > Ovtpet Laver ; ; Activation Function Output 7 "Wa wrens u® Input Layer Neuron Figure 22: Single-layer perceptron The major advantage of neural networks is their ability to predict and anticipate via parallel thinking. Artificial Neural Network can be taught instead of being extensively programmed. Figure below depicts relationship between Al, ML and Deep Learning/ Neural Network- TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 32 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 33 Figure 23: Relationship between AI, ML and Deep Learning 3.2.3. Hybrid ML approach using Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) provides a probabilistic (Bayesian) approach for learning generic regression problems with the help of kernels (Verrelst et al. 2013). On comparison with other ML models, the GPR shows two major advantages of (i) generating additional quantitative measurement of standard deviation and coefficient of variation (CV) along with prediction estimates, (ii) second is the use of kernels of co-variance functions to reduce the time taken during model training. Figure 24 gives a differentiation of GPR fitting with a typical ML fitting. The uncertainty can be noticed in regions where there are large gaps of missing data points. The squared exponential is the widely used kernel function for retrieving crop traits from multispectral and hyperspectral datasets. The best prediction performance for GPR models can be achieved by integrating with radiative transfer models. This hybrid modeling approach with the aid of dimensionality reduction and active learning techniques demonstrated accurate retrieval of multiple cropland traits using satellite and UAV-borne datasets (Sahoo et al. 2023b). Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Artificial Intelligence Machine Learning Neural Nets Dozens of Different ML Methods Figure 23: Relationship between Al, ML and Deep Learning 3.2.3. Hybrid ML approach using Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) provides a probabilistic (Bayesian) approach for learning generic regression problems with the help of kernels (Verrelst et al. 2013). On comparison with other ML models, the GPR shows two major advantages of (i) generating additional quantitative measurement of standard deviation and coefficient of variation (CV) along with prediction estimates, (ii) second is the use of kernels of co-variance functions to reduce the time taken during model training. Figure 24 gives a differentiation of GPR fitting with a typical ML fitting. The uncertainty can be noticed in regions where there are large gaps of missing data points.