 New identified efficient cropping system revealed to add the additional productivity and profitability to farmers for which short-duration cash/catch crops can be integrated easily with long-duration crops in between two crops and seasons. For eastern India particularly, rice/ wheat can be diversified by using the suitable crops/varieties like soybean, maize for cob/fodder, fodder jowar, major millets like jowar/bajra in kharif season and maize, arhar, and mustard during rabi in cropping systems for sustainable agriculture. Thus, novel selected crops were found more suitable to prevailing the climate, soil, irrigation, market, input supply, labour availability and better farmers’ perception to adopt them. Therefore, developed climate resilient cropping systems need to showcase in farmer’s field to break the traditional systems, which are vulnerable to the climate variability. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: bk151219@gmail.com HANDBOOK OF Integrated Pest Management To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems. Information on basic strategies and tactics of different methods of management including mass production of biocontrol agents, IPM policy and pesticide registration is provided in comprehensive form. The Handbook of Integrated Pest Management comprises 82 chapters which are well written in lucid language with crispy sentences by the renowned scientists. The role of IPM is elucidated with different pests like Trichogramma, Bacillus thuringiensis, Nomuraea rileyi etc. and agricultural crops like rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, pulses, soybean, rapeseed mustard, groundnut, minor-oilseed crops, sugarcane, cotton, jute and mesta, potato, vegetable crops, fruits, grapes, citrus, banana, pomegranate, coconut etc.