 • Multiplex PCR for simultaneous detection of 4 banana viruses. • Banana Shakti – a micronutrient mixture. • Potential strain of Trichoderma viride NRCB-1. • Shipment protocols for major cultivars. Banana plant Ripened banana bunch Bananas in bunch 98 ICAR Institutes Profile 98 ICAR-National Research Centre for Grapes 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-NRCG Manjiri Farm, P B, No 3, Solapur Rd, Pune, Maharashtra 412307 ii. Name of the Director: Dr RG Somkuwar (Act.) iii. Email Address: director.nrcg@icar.gov.in, Phone Number: 020-26956002 2. Mandate and activities • Strategic and applied research on safe grape production and productivity. • Transfer of technology and capacity building of stakeholders for enhanced and sustained production of grapes. • National Referral Laboratory for Food Safety and Pesticide residue in fruits. 3. Salient achievements Released four grape varieties i. Manjari Naveen: A clonal selection from the Centennial Seedless. i. Manjari Medika: It is a hybrid of PusaNavrang × Flame Seedless.It is a teinturier variety (coloured pulp apart from coloured skin) suitable for juice making. ii. Manjari Kishmish: White clonal selection from KishmishRozavis. Raisin recovery is higher (26-27%) as compared to Thompson Seedless (24-25%). Due to higher raisin recovery the profit margin is expected to increase atleast by 15%. iii. Manjari Shyama: It is a cross between Black Champa x Thompson Seedless.Variety has black, crunchy and bold berries (18 - 20 mm) suitable for table purpose with yield of 30 to 32 MT/ha. It is found to be tolerant to berry cracking due to rains. • Improving water use efficiency in vineyards: Standardised irrigation schedule based upon pan evaporation and crop growth stage that resulted in an average 52% savings in irrigation water over farmer’s practice. • Integrated Decision Support System (DSS) for Grapes. It provides recommendations based on crop data, farm data, and prevailing weather conditions. Application programming interface (API) has been developed. • Bio-intensive strategy for the production of “zero residue grapes”:Successfully demonstrated at four locations. The strategy included (i) Management of primary inoculum of pathogens, (ii) Identification and application of naturally occurring 99 Horticultural Science 99 efficient antagonists and entomopathogens, (iii) Induction of systemic resistance in grapevines using microorganisms, (iv) Identification and application of Bacillus subtilisstrain DR-39 for enhanced degradation of pesticide residues (v) Restricted use of single site action fungicides during the high risk period; and sulphur thereafter and (vi) conservation of natural enemies. • Bio-remediation of pesticides using Bacillus subtilis strain DR-39 bio formulation: The wet powder formulation of Bacillus subtilis, DR-39 contains efficient Bacillus subtilisDR-39 strain with a bacterial population of 1×109cfu/g which enhances the degradation of pesticide when applied at a dose of 2.5 g/l.