 Benefits: A simple farmer-friendly technology to compost the lignin rich coir-pith within 60 days using poultry manure, lime and rock phosphate. The coir pith compost has 1.3-1.4 %N, 0.9- 1.2% P and 1.3 to 1.6 % K and its application can curtail the use of chemical fertilizers. Very high organic carbon content of 28-30% improves the soil organic matter content in a sustainable manner. Highly beneficial for improving soil physical and biological properties. Improves the water holding capacity of soils significantly. It is an ideal input for agri-horti industries for use as soilless medium. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Central Plantation Crops Research Institute, Kudlu PO Kasaragod-671124 37 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R NutBoost 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): NutBoost: A formulation of consortium of PGPRs (P, K, and Zn solubilizer) comprising of Pseudomonas gessardii BHU1(PGPR1), Pseudomonas putida S1(6) (PGPR2) and Pseudomonas aeruginosa BM6 (PGPR4) isolated at Junagadh from groundnut rhizosphere. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Groundnut; NutBoost can be applied after dilution through irrigation water or through FYM after multiplication in FYM or through drip or as seed treatment. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All groundnut growing areas 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at DGR and farmers’ fields, Junagadh; multilocations in India through AICRP(G) centres for three years and demonstration through FLDs. 5. Benefits: Seed inoculations can enhance pod yields by 16.5 to 18.1 % over the un-inoculated control. These PGPR isolates have been recommended for irrigated and rainfed groundnut cultivation in India on the basis of the performance. The FLDs conducted in India with groundnut showed yield response of 18% with B:C ratio of 2.46 (ICBR:6.4). The formulation has shelf-life >1yr at room temperature. Application of NutBoost can save 30-40% of externally applied phosphatic and 25% of potassium fertilizers 6. Contact: Director, ICAR-Directorate of Groundnut Research, Ivnagar Road, PB No. 5, Junagadh-362001 38 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R NutMagic 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): NutMagic: A formulation of consortium of PGPR (Pseudomonas gessardii BHU1, Pseudomonas putida S1(6)); PSB (Enterobacter cloacae BM8; Bacillus polymyxa) and rhizobia (Sinorhizobium americanum NRCG4 and Rhizobium sp. NRCG9). 2. Target crops and delivery system: Groundnut; NutMagic can be applied after dilution through irrigation water or through FYM after multiplication in FYM or through drip or as seed treatment 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All groundnut growing areas 4.