 ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Buffaloes (ICAR-CIRB), Hisar has successfully generated a male buffalo calf named “Veer Gaurav” utilizing the cutting-edge Ovum Pick Up and In-Vitro Embryo Production (OPU-IVEP) Technology. The analysis of data on growth and prolificacy traits of inter-se mated Avishaan sheep over the four generations revealed that the prolificacy in Avishaan sheep over the four generations ranged from 59.5 to 71.4% with litter size from 1.66 to 1.81 at birth. During the year, a total of 5,85,374 chicken germplasm was distributed to 4,819 farmers/beneficiaries from different centres. A total of 3,58,588 improved chicken varieties have been distributed by the Poultry Seed Project centres in their respective regions/states. Next-generation sequencing technology was utilized to sequence the genome of the Kadambri variety of Guinea fowl with 20x coverage in an Illumina platform (150 bp paired end reads). Fish Improvement: Successful induced breeding was achieved in captivity in >2 years matured male and female fishes of goldlined seabream (Rhabdo sargussarba), a euryhaline species, during second week of December 2022. Standardization of induced breeding and seed production technology of Hypselobarbus kolus, an indigenous Peninsular carp was carried out. The breeding technologies of 3 marine ornamental fishes, viz. black bar chromis (Pycnochromis retrofasciatus), caerulean damsel (Pomacentrus caeruleus) and Maldives damselfish (Amblyglyphidodon indicus) including protocols of broodstock development, breeding, and larval rearing were achieved. ICAR-CIFA, Bhubaneswar imparted hands-on training and technical guidance to farmers from across the country on catfish broodstock management, induced breeding, hatchery management, seed production and live feed culture. After obtaining training, the three fish farmers successfully established catfish hatchery and produced catfish seeds. ICAR- NBFGR, Lucknow, created sustainable livelihood opportunities for the women of Lakshadweep Islands by establishing a marine ornamental aquatic organisms germplasm resource centre at Agatti island for propagation of indigenous marine ornamental shrimps/ fishes. Training was provided to the self-help group clusters, and the community aquaculture units are being successfully operated for rearing ornamental shrimps and fishes. Genetic Resources: A total of 4,246 accessions of orthodox seed species were added to the National GeneBank for long-term storage, bringing the base collection of National GeneBank to the total of 4,67,254 accession. A total of 39 accessions of fruits, tubers, bulbs and medicinal plants were added to the in vitro Genebank, making the total collection of 2,001 accessions in the form of ~40,000 in vitro cultures of 68 genera and 167 species.