 About 250 g nagakaho (Derris ferruginea) and 125 g theithuk theirong (Heynea trijuga) leaves are boiled in water for 1 hr and after cooling the filtered extract is preserved in bottle. When any organ of animal is injured and there is excess bleeding, this decoction is applied over there and that body part is tied with cotton cloth. Total course of treatment is 7-8 days. Keywords: naga kaho, theithuk thei rong, overbleeding Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3187 Treatment of skin infection in animals with barjgandha 3188 Curing of an abscess in animals The people of village Khata of block Rithoura of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh are using this ITK. For the treatment of skin disease in animals, 100 g barjgandha paste is prepared and applied on the infected place. The skin infection is cured. Keywords: skin infection, barjgandha Ingredients used for the preparation of decoction to cure abscess in animals are: salt (10 g), roots of ulkosu (Amorphophallus campanulatus) 3pieces (2 inches), roots of ulot kombol (Hibiscus pungens) 3pieces (2 inches), roots of tholapadma 2 pieces, roots of outenga (Dillenia indica) 2 pieces, roots of choral (Tragia involucrate), 2 pieces and roots of bon kopah (Bombax cieba) 2 pieces. All these ingredients are boiled in water. The water is administered 3 days prior to opening of the abscess. Aakon (Calotropis gigantea) is also applied on the abscess. After 3 days the abscess is punctured with a main tenga thorn. The pus is evacuated, but if it could not be evacuated fully, small amount of salt is wrapped in a small cloth and inserted in the punctured hole. The Chorat, ulotkombol and bon kopah roots (around 18 inches) are orally given daily for 3 days. If started on Saturday, it should be continued till Monday. The second and third dose should be given after a gap of 15 days preferably on Tuesday and Saturday and continued for 3 days. Keywords: abscess, pus, salt, roots and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Shri Lalta Prasad, S/o Shri Kharagsen, Khata, Rithoura, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Bodon Bora, Silsako, North Guwahati, dist. Guwahati (Assam) 781 039 Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3189 Use of junjunia leaf paste for abscess in dewclaw 3190 Use of bhot bangana as treatment for abscess in animals About 50 g leaves of junjunia (Cmtalaria striata) are ground to make a paste. The prepared paste is applied daily for 3 days.