 The Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 179 commercially important indigenous species are mahseers and snow trout. The common exotic coldwater sport and food fishes include trouts (brown trout, Salmo trutta fario; rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss), and common carp. Research in coldwater fisheries in India began only in the 1960s. Fish production from the coldwaters falls short of expectations for a variety of reasons, viz., low productivity of upland waters, slow growth rate of fish species, and the low fecundity of fish species. ICAR-Directorate of Coldwater Fisheries Research (DCFR) has developed and standardized the breeding protocol of several indigenous food and ornamental fishes and disseminated the same to the farmers for employment generation through small-scale entrepreneurship. GIS-based resource mapping, the development of location-specific water conservation models for fish culture, genetic improvement programmes for commercially important species, and the development of thermal tolerance strains, etc. are a few areas being investigated to improve catches from coldwater fisheries. Sport fisheries being a vital activity in upland states, enhancing trout and mahseer population in hill streams and lakes through effective resource management and ranching programmes are of paramount importance. 2.1.4. Climate change and fisheries management strategies Extensive studies have been conducted to assess the impact of climate change on marine fisheries and the development of management strategies, especially through the project on ‘National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA)’ operated by ICAR for the last one decade. Vulnerability maps have been prepared for coastal villages in eight districts in maritime states and developed Integrated District Level Adaptation and Mitigation (IDLAM) plans. The study following Life Cycle Analysis (LCA) showed that the carbon footprint for wild-caught marine fish in India is 17.5% lower than the global average. Using the climate change-fish biomass model the annual catch of Indian oil sardine was forecasted. These studies helped in developing management strategies and mapping of distributional shifts for 68 commercially important marine species based on the vulnerability assessment. Further, an adaptation framework based on the alternation in the distribution and abundance of 14 selected marine species due to changes in phenology, diet, and reproductive pattern impacted by increasing sea surface temperature (SST) was also developed. Citizen Science networks and climate clubs were created to generate climate-related information based on opportunities for awareness as well as data generation in sensitive ecosystems including marshy wetlands. The ecosystem of the Ganga River has experienced atmospheric temperature rising thus resulting in abnormalities of the heat budget of the riverine ecosystems.