 Two discussion papers were published; one on policies to increase pulses production in India, and another on global pulse outlook. Both the publications cover a range of issues concerning pulse sector in India and also global level. To develop indicators for ranking KVKs two brainstorming sessions were organized with ATARI directors, KVK staff and professionals. The indicators have been finalized and data for verifying the methodology is under progress. Also, two studies were initiated (i) how repeal of APMC Act (especially in Bihar) contributed in better price discovery; and (ii) how agricultural insurance facilitate adoption of improved technologies. In the former study, data was used from different wholesale markets, while in later case it was from Situation Assessment Survey. Further analysis is under progress. Country-wise agricultural research expenditure was collected for the last 15 years to compare India with other countries. This data is regularly updated to share with ICAR to seek more research resources. India is allocating much less resources than many Latin American countries, China and many countries in Africa. State-wise time series data on different expenditure heads and subsidies was also collected from 1980-81 to 2013-14 to assess how different governments are prioritizing agriculture sector. Some preliminary analysis has been done for entire country to prioritize investments and subsidies for increasing agricultural growth and reducing poverty. Early results show that investment on agricultural research was ranked high in increasing agricultural growth and reducing poverty. Other investment heads were education, health and irrigation development. The study will provide empirical evidence on rate of returns from investment in agricultural research for convincing decision makers to allocate more funds for agricultural research. ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 44 IFPRI-SAO completed three research projects under Technical Assistance and Research for Indian Nutrition and Agriculture (TARINA) in 2016. The first one focussed on the impact of reduction in price of food grains under the Public Distribution System (PDS) on household purchases. We found that the increased PDS subsidies do not benefit consumers unless there is a significant investment in controlling pilferage. A related research project on PDS empirically tested if providing subsidized pulses through the PDS will increase household consumption of pulses and proteins. We found that subsidizing pulses prices only have a small effect on pulse consumption and a negligible effect on total protein intake. The scarcity of pulses in India and even the global market, consumer subsidies on pulses cannot be scaled up and are unlikely to be effective. Another study on sweet potato value chain in Odisha suggests that input subsidies alone won’t be enough to encourage production and consumption of orange flesh sweet potato (OFSP) in the state.