 Government of India wants to create nearly 10000 FPOs over the next five years. NABARD, SFAC and National Cooperative Development Corporation are to be given the responsibility to execute the programme to form the targeted number of FPOs. Government of India recently announced the following measures to promote FPOs for a prosperous and sustainable agriculture sector that enable farmers to enhance productivity through efficient, cost-effective and sustainable resource use and realize higher returns to the produce: (i) Launching of “Operation Greens” for onion, potato and tomato crops on the lines of Operation Flood with an allocation of Rs. 500 crores for promoting FPOs, agri-logistics, processing facilities and professional management; (ii) With a view to encouraging enabling environment for aggregation of farmers into FPOs and take advantage of economies of scale, the Government announced 100% tax deduction for FPOs with an annual turnover of up to Rs. 100 crores. Equity Grant Scheme is a government initiative to support the equity base of Farmer Producer Companies (FPCs) by providing matching equity grants subject to maximum of Rs. 15.00 lakh per FPC in two installments with in a period of 3 years and to address nascent and emerging FPCs which have paid up capital not exceeding Rs. 30.00 lakhs. 3. Conclusion Mahatma Gandhi had very valuable thoughts, observations, ethical principles and philosophies for agriculture, particularly Indian agriculture. According to him farmer is the pivotal person for the farm, village and the nation as a whole. The economic and social wellbeing of a 181 farming family is important for the harmony and happiness of a nation. Gandhiji believed that subsistence and commercial agriculture are viable options for a country like India because they not only sustain the needs of the farming families but also the needs of the neighbouring societies and ecosystems. In a modern day, an intelligent combination of commercial and market agriculture are essential for meeting the food supply needs and for safeguarding our natural resources. Gandhiji also advocated strongly for organic farming and discouraged use of petrochemicals and non-renewable energies. Our current focuses also aim at increased use of renewable sources of energy for farming and to have a mix of both organic and conventional farming systems. Gandhiji advocated further on Gram Swaraj and Village Industries. He believed that the agricultural produce must be processed on the farm and sold at remunerative prices by the farmers. A similar model and pattern is also being advocated by ICAR and other Government Departments. On-farm primary processing industries are essential for doubling farmers’ income and for reducing the post-production losses. Gandhiji emphasized non-violence to human and animals. He was totally against killing of animals for meat purposes. In this way his philosophies were totally opposite to the capitalistic philosophies.