 Unit 3: Myology, Angiology, Neurology and Aesthesiology of Ox Classification of muscle fibres, origin, insertion and relations of muscles of different body parts. Topographic anatomy of the vascular system comprising of heart, arteries, veins and lymphatics. Study of various components of central nervous system, peripheral nervous system and autonomic nervous system. Complete study of the gross anatomy of various sense organs. Study of different nerve blocks, intravenous sites and enucleation of eyeball. Unit 4: Histological and Histochemical Techniques Preparation of tissues for light microscopy using different fixatives, different staining methods for routine light microscopy, frozen sectioning techniques and staining methods for enzymes, carbohydrates, lipids, proteins, pigments etc. Silver staining techniques for nervous tissue. Unit 5: General and Systemic Histology and Ultrastructure General: Light and ultra-structural details of animal cell, epithelial tissue, muscular tissue, connective tissue and nervous tissue. Systemic: Light and ultrastructure of different organs of digestive system, respiratory, lymphoid and cardiovascular system, urogenital system, different sense organs and nervous system of ruminants with differential features among domestic animals. 76 Unit 6: Developmental Anatomy Gametogenesis, fertilization, cleavage and gastrulation, development of foetal membranes and placenta in domestic animals, histogenesis of nervous system, sense organs, endocrine organs and cardiovascular system, embryonic development of digestive, respiratory, urogenital and musculoskeletal system. Unit 7: Principles and Applications of Biomechanics Biomechanics, its definition and scope with reference to anatomy and physiology of domestic animals and musculo-skeletal dynamics. Locomotion and clinical applications, biomechanics of cortical and trabecular bones, biomechanics of fracture fixation, instrumentation and techniques in locomotion and their application in lameness. Unit 8: Avian Anatomy Gross and microscopic features of different body systems of domestic fowl. Unit 9: Neuroanatomy Gross and microscopic anatomy of the brain and spinal cord, various cranial and spinal nerves along with their associated nuclei and ganglia, motor and sensory pathways, different ascending and descending tracts of brain and spinal cord and autonomic nervous system. Unit 10: Endocrine Anatomy Advanced gross and microscopic anatomy of the hypothalamus and pituitary gland, thyroid, parathyroid, thymus, adrenal glands, islets of Langerhans, pineal body and other tissues associated with endocrine secretions. Unit 11: Theory and Applications of Electron Microscope Introduction and principles of electron microscopy, methods for transmission electron microscopy and scanning electron microscopy.