 Paclobutrazol – A mileage for mango production Paclobutrazol is considered as one of the most potential plant growth retardant which restricts vegetative growth, inhibits gibberellin biosynthesis, induce flowering and control biennial bearing in mango. It has been characterized as an environmentally stable compound in soil with half-life of more than one year under different conditions. However, when it is applied at an optimized rate, the residual level detected will not be above the quantifiable level in soil and fruits. The main objective of the article is to provide contemporary information about paclobutrazol in mango production and its risk assessment. Paclobutrazol application Indian Horticulture 22 Mode of application When applied to the soil at a rate of 4g a.i. per tree, this chemical is effective in controlling biennial bearing. The dose is calculated based on the tree canopy, and soil drenching at 3.2 ml per metre canopy diameter is very effective in controlling biennial bearing and increasing yield. Apply paclobutrazol to the tree basin soil during the last week of September to the first week of October by digging a 15 cm deep and 30 cm wide furrow at a radial diameter of 1.0-1.5 m from the tree trunk. The required dose of paclobutrazol is mixed with 10 liters of water and applied in furrow by line pouring method to maintain uniformity during application. Apply paclobutrazol in two rings around the trunk at the same distance in radial diameter and with the same concentration when the tree is old and has a large canopy area. Although foliar application is possible, soil application is more effective. Where mango performance is heavily influenced by climatic fluctuations such as frequent and untimely rain, staggered flowering and fruiting, especially in the Konkan region, foliar application is generally effective. Paclobutrazol has been shown to be effective in regulating physiological and agronomical traits in mango, and it can be used to effectively regulate flowering, yield, and quality. Vegetative and reproductive growth Vegetative growth in mango is through cyclic flushing. The flushing is more frequent as temperature increases. Episodic or recurrent flushing is common in subtropical and tropical regions. The timing of flush development is important for successful flowering and fruiting because bud release, for vegetative or reproductive growth, can only occur from mature flush. However, the paclobutrazol treatments which reduce vegetative vigour manipulate the timing of flush development may help in bud release around the time of inductive temperatures. The production of vegetative shoots in place of reproductive shoots is due to the elevated level of gibberellin which is considered as a vegetative promoter. Paclobutrazol, a gibberellin inhibitor, reduces level of vegetative promoter and stimulates flowering in inductive shoots. Moreover, fruit load may nullify the inductive effects of paclobutrazol.