 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3430 Treatment for fever in animals by ising the decoction of kadfoda tree bark 3431 Use of bark of Mimusops hexandra to control fever in animals 3432 Control of milk fever in cattle followed by the people of village Rajupur in of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: fever, giloie, barmdandi, kanja, juice Animals do not take fodder in case of fever. Cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan prepare a decoction of kadfoda (Gentiana kurroo) tree. About 250-300 g bark is boiled in 1 litre water till the solution remains about 400 ml. This solution is given orally to the affected animal thrice a day for 4- 5 days for complete recovery. Keywords: kadfoda, fever, decoction People ofdistriet Bharuch in Gujarat collect 500-700 g bark of Mimusops hexandra, and crush it to take out the liquid extract to cure fever in animals. This extract is smeared on all the four legs of the affected animal. This pratice is followed twice a day for 4 days. Keywords: bark, smear Due to milk fever the cattle show following symptoms: improper food intake, oversalivation and raising one leg. To cure this disease, a mixture of 20 g asafoetida (Ferula asafoetida) and 10 white beetle leaves (Hibiscus abelmoschus) are fed to the cattle until it is cured. Keywords: milk fever, asafoetida, white beetle leaves Dr. Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh)731 102 Shri Sojabhai Motibhai Vasava/Prabhat Dayabhai Patel, Kanbudi, Dediyapada P.O., Bharuch (Gujarat) Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380015 Shri G. Sivakumar, S/o Shri Govindasamy, No.2/45. Kakkan Street, Peruvalur, Gingee Villupuram (Tamil Nadu) 604 208 3433 Application of khar for cough treatment in livestock The banana peels of Musa balabasiana, locally known bheemkol, is preserved over the fireplace and dehydrated. It is crushed with 10-12 chillies (Capsicum annuum) locally known khutjolokia. The product formed is known khar. This is applied Shri Bhaity Dutta, Patiogaon Facilitator: National Innovation Foundation, Ahmedabad (Gujarat) 380 015 Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3434 Cure of cough in animals by using ash of coconut, fruits of jogholi bhang and bhim kol 3435 Treatment of cough and fever in animals with red chilli, rubber and hair 3436 Use of tulsi leaves to cure common cold in cattle to the tongue of the affected animal. After some time it is cleaned by using leaves of fig plant (locally known deemoru). This is a traditional treatment, which is practised since years and is found to be very effective to cure cough in animals.