 Planting/ sowing of sugarcane and French bean should be done in 1: 2 ratios. Row to row spacing should be 90 cm for sugarcane and 30 cm for French bean. The distance between cane and French bean row must be 30 cm. Seed to seed distance of French bean should be 10 cm. Manure and fertilizer application: Apply well rotten FYM/compost @20 t/ha before last ploughing and mix it evenly in soil. Chemical fertilizers for both the crops should apply separately. The fertilizer application in intercrops should be based on the area occupied by them in the mixed stand. During a research it was observed that autumn sugarcane + French bean (1:2 row ratios) with 100% recommended dose of fertilizer (RDF) to sugarcane and 100% N and K to French bean and sugarcane + French bean (1: 2 row ratios) with 100% RDF to sugarcane and 100% N and P to French bean both are equally productive and cost-effective, offering the chance to save phosphorus or potassium. Irrigation: Rainfall in north India is sufficient to meet the water needs of the grand growth phase of sugarcane, but irrigation is necessary to meet the needs of the tiller initiation stage (formative stage). For the autumn sugarcane crop in this region, 5–6 irrigations are needed. It is important to take care to irrigate the crop in accordance with the requirements and kind of intercrops. Apply 2 irrigations up to the period of French bean at 45 and 75 days after sowing. Normal irrigation for sugarcane should apply only after harvest of French bean. Weed management: Wider row spacing and slow initial growth of sugarcane provide congenial environment for the growth of weeds. The presence of weeds up to 120 days after planting cause reduction in yield indicating that initial weed infestation during tiller initiation period is harmful to the sugarcane as well as intercrop. However, intercropping smothers weeds because of its effect. High crop densities in an intercropping system provide intense competition for weeds, which in turn somewhat slows their growth. The weed population is reduced when French bean is used as an intercrop with autumn sugarcane, which lowers cultivation costs. In an intercropping system, weed control is often performed manually through interculturing activities; however, in the situation that labourers are not readily available, system- recommended herbicides may be applied. Plant protection Insects Sugarcane borers: It is serious pest of sugarcane and cause considerable yield loss. It affects sugarcane from planting to cane formation stage. The different types of borer such as root, shoot, top and plassey borers are sporadic in nature and can be controlled by cultural, mechanical, biological and chemical method. Install 12 pheromone traps/ha to monitor the emergence of moths. It is effective to remove dead hearts from canes from April to June using a mechanical approach, as well as dry leaves at intervals of 1 month.