 Expression of fertility associated genes: Study on correlation of different semen quality parameters with expression profiles of genes like AKAP4, PRM1 and CAT showed positive correlation on both acrosome integrity and post thaw motility in Frieswal bull semen. The AKAP4 had significant correlation with both semen quality parameters. PRM1 showed high correlation with PTM. Genes, viz. CLU, TPN1, TPN2 and MnSOD showed positive correlation on PTM of which the MnSOD showed correlation at 1% level. Acrosome integrity was also correlated with the expression profiles of SOD, PKM2. Modulation of thermo-regulatory response in cattle: Characterized bovine HSP90AA1 IRES sequence was subjected for structural prediction and generation of interactome model between the predicted bovine IRES with human 40S Subunit ribosomal protein5 (RPS5) and ribosomal translational initiation factor (TIF). Spectrophotometric readings revealed that the concentration of in vitro synthesized RNA eventually increased from 14.4 ng/μl (A260/280:1.65) to 2057.8 ng/μl (A260/280:2.01). Transfected MDBK cells revealed the AcGFP expression under the control of bovine Hsp90AA1. However, the GFP expression under the control of native IRES (53%) was slightly higher than the Hsp90AA1 IRES (47%). Further, confirmation was made through immunefluroscent assay, which also localized the GFP gene expression under the control of Hsp90AA1 IRES element. Discovering biomarkers: A total of 1,547 proteins were identified in Frieswal bull spermatozoa using liquid chromatography – mass spectrometer (LC-MS/MS) analysis, which revealed that 558 (36.1%) and 653 (42.2%) proteins expressed differentially among fertile and inferior quality bull spermatozoa, respectively. Genetic composition of Vrindavani cattle: The precise genetic composition of the Vrindavani crossbred cattle strain was determined by assessing the population structure and admixture levels of the Vrindavani composite population. Genotypic data were generated from randomly selected animals of Vrindavani population and the data for parental breeds, i.e. Hariana, Holstein- Friesian, Jersey and Brown Swiss was retrieved from a public repository. The merged dataset was analysed for assessing admixture levels and population stratification using principal component analysis (PCA), multidimensional scaling (MDS) approach and the model-based approach in STRUCTURE software. The average minor allele frequency (MAF) value for Vrindavani population was estimated to be 0.235. Vrindavani population showed an average ancestry of 39.5, 22.9, 26.9 and 10.7% inheritance levels from Holstein-Friesian, Jersey, Hariana and Brown Swiss cattle breeds, respectively. The study concluded that the genotypic data based on Bovine50KSNP BeadChip is applicable to estimate crossbred/composite breed composition. This study will also serve as a benchmark for the characterization of other crossbred populations in the country.