 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3148 Use of alum for the treatment of injury in animals 3149 Treatment of injury in animals with turmeric and lime People of village Bichuria in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh follow this ITK for the treatment of injury. Alum powder is applied on the cut place of animal and it is bandaged. Water is applied on it twice daily. Keywords: injury, alum A paste is prepared by mixing turmeric and lime (each 50 g) and heated. The heated mixture is applied at the injured place of animal to cure the injury. People of village Bichuria in district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this treatment to cure injury in the animal. Keywords: injury, animal, turmeric, lime Shri Md. Noor Ahmed. S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, village Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, village Bichuria, Balia, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) 3150 Treatment of injury in animals with vinegar 3151 Treatment of animal injury by cotton cloth and mustard oil 3153 Treatment of cut or injury in animals by arbi (Colocasia esculenta) Cattle owners of villages Kamua Kala, Maheshpur (Shiv Singh) and Khai Khera of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh apply 500 ml vinegar twice as per requirement daily to cure injury in animals. Keywords: vinegar, injury Cotton cloth is dipped in mustard oil and burnt. After burning the ash of cotton cloth is collected and a paste is prepared. This paste is applied on the injury place of animal. The injury of animal is cured within 2-3 days. This treatment is common in village Khiraka of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: injury, cotton cloth, mustard oil, ash, paste Paste of 100 g arbi (Colocasia esculenta) is prepared and applied on cut part of the body organ to cure injury in the animals. Keywords: arbi (Colocasia esculenta), cut Shri Sobha Ram. S/o Shri Khipali Ram, Kamua Kala, Shri Krishna S/o Shri Ghasi Ram, Khai Khera, Shri Mohan Lai, Maheshpur (Shiv Singh) and Shri Ramavtar, Khata dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Rajeshwar Singh, S/o Shri Ganen Lai, Khiraka, village Auadh, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Lala Ram, S/o Shri Tikka Ram, Nitoie, village Bhmora, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3154 Treatment of injury in animals with turmeric and desi ghee 3155 Treatment of injury in animals by pigeonpea (Cajanas cajan) leaves 3156 Use of kokreinda (Carissa carandas) for treatment of cut in animal skin 3157 Treatment of cut in animals with mango pickle 3159 Use of thymol and rock salt to heal wound in cattle Cattle owners of village Amlonipur of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh wash the injured or cut body organ with hot water and apply the paste of turmeric (100 g) and desi ghee, that cures the injuries.