in EDITORIAL COMMITTEE Chairman • Dr T R Sharma Members • S K Malhotra • J Rema • Ravi Kumar Mathur • O C Sharma • Neelima Garg • N Kotwaliwale • Ram Pal • K V Prasad Member-Secretary • Ravindra Verma Cover : Horticulture in Northeast India Business, Subscription and Advertisement Contact: JP Upadhye, Incharge, Business Unit, Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa New Delhi 110 012 Telephone: 011-2584 3657 E-mail: bmicar@icar.org.in ISO 9001:2015 Organization Price : Single Copy `30, US $25 Special issue `100 Annual Subscription 1 Year `150, US $30 3 Years `400, US $85 Indian Horticulture 2 Editorial Northeast Region, A Potent Horticulture Hub D EPENDING upon the climate, altitude and physiography, a wide range of horticultural crops are cultivated in different parts of the Northeast Region (NER) of India. The mandarin, pineapple, turmeric, ginger, litchi, lemon, banana, chilli, cucurbits, large cardamom, etc., are special crops cultivated in the region. In recent times, apple, kiwi, persimmon, avocado, guava, pear, walnut, broccoli, cabbage, capsicum, carrot, cauliflower, muskmelon, pea, potato, sweet potato, onion, tapioca, tomato are finding place in different areas of NER. Out of the total horticulture production of 122.96 lakh tonnes from NER, 47.46, 65.21, 6.43 lakh tonnes are achieved from fruits, vegetables, and spices, respectively. However, despite these distinct advantages, Northeast horticulture has not grown at par with the rest of the country, and the region’s horticulture potential has not been tapped, mainly due to lack of market led production practices and insufficient post-harvest infrastructure. The productivity of many of the horticultural corps in the entire NER is below the national level. This low productivity of the region can be converted into an opportunity and production levels can be increased significantly to enhance the total production at national level, to meet the ever-growing demand for horticulture produce. The NE focused research initiatives by ICAR and also under HMNEH are yielding results in improving the production and supply chain of the major high value works in the region and recommended further strategy to achieve the goal of making the Northeastern region a true horticulture hub not only of India but also for the entire South-Asian region. Evolving of the new varieties, production, protection, post-harvest technologies and value additions are essential to keep up the pace with the current growth of horticulture for self-sufficiency. Besides, clean planting material production, horticulture cluster development, digital horticulture, organic horticulture, and natural farming also assume importance. The efforts for boosting productivity must continue, through the introduction of climate resilient varieties and quality planting material production for area expansion.