 Identification of barriers for the adoption of UAVs An extensive literature review was conducted to identify the barriers to the adoption of drones. To ensure completeness, a questionnaire- based survey was conducted to collect expert opinions on the rele­ vance of the barriers identified through literature review in the Indian context. The outcomes of literature review and questionnaire survey complement each other. Section 3.1 and section 3.2 present the litera­ ture review and the questionnaire-based survey. 3.1. Literature scoping to identify barriers Research works focusing on the barriers to adopt UAVs to perform tasks in agriculture are limited. Owing to this, selected studies identified from the Scopus repository with key words as UAV, drones, agriculture, emphasizing the applications of drones in various sectors are reviewed to identify the barriers relevant in the context of agricultural applica­ tions. Furthermore, reports highlighting the use of drones in the agri­ cultural domain are reviewed to identify other types of barriers. As a result, as shown in Table 1, six barrier categories encompassing thirty- three barriers are identified. 3.2. Focus group discussion The outcomes of this focus group discussion aim to ensure the completeness of the identified barriers presented in Table .1. Re­ searchers (n = 7) working in the domain of the UAV, Members and Associates (n = 2) from the National Academy of Agricultural Science (NAAS), members (n = 6) from Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) have participated in the survey conducted virtually. Participated members from KVK had prior experience in conducting hands-on workshops demonstrating the capabilities of UAVs for spraying fertilizers and interacting with farmers. Considering the recommendations given by Greenbaum (2000) [55], Fig. 2. Schematic illustration of agricultural tasks performed using UAV. H. Puppala et al. Technology in Society 74 (2023) 102335 4 participants were divided into smaller groups resulting in three focus groups. The discussion sessions were conducted separately, and the average duration of each session was nearly 42 min. All the focus group discussions were moderated, and the moderator ensured that the par­ ticipants discussed same topic and got an equal opportunity to share their perceptions. The moderator prepared a discussion guide and informed each group in the same manner about the nature of the focus group, and the same questions were addressed in each focus group discussion. Each of the conducted focus group discussions started with a ques­ tion, “What are the factors impeding the adoption of UAVs by the farmers in India to perform agricultural tasks?“. Further, the list of barriers collected from the literature review is shared with each group for suggestions to ensure completeness. Moderator used virtual collab­ orator whiteboards for data collection.