 During the Gaekwad period under British suzerainty, it is possible that these institutional changes exacerbated climate stressors leading to the expansion of arid adapted millets more suitable to rainfed cultivation. 6. Conclusion The adaptability of the farmers around Vadnagar evidenced in the archaeological record here has implications for historians investigating the relationship between climate change, drought, and famine. While long-term environmental conditions were likely drivers of changing cultivation patterns around Vadnagar, this took place within an estab­ lished subsistence and hydraulic tradition that was highly resilient to climatic fluctuations. The archaeobotanical data we present here, as well as other regional case studies (Pokharia et al., 2020) indicate that Indian farmers of the northwest arid zones were in the past able to accommodate or adapt to climate events of the last two millennia, expanding the agricultural package to capitalise on higher precipitation when available, able to shift to more arid adapted crops during periods of increased aridity and drought, and able to construct and manage hydraulic landscapes that helped to ameliorate the worst impacts of those fluctuations. Moreover, even when the administration of their hydraulic systems was impacted by Colonisation, local farmers were still able to adapt via shifts in cultivated crops – representing resilience against both climatic shifts as well as administrative changes. The par­ allels between regional developments in water management systems and the modification of Sharmistha Lake at Vadnagar indicate scope for future detailed study into the historic water management system in the city. While future climate change may be more pronounced than pre­ vious Holocene shifts, and may increase the likelihood of catastrophic events, we argue that variability among archaeobotanical datasets from sites where occupation was continuous through multiple, changed environmental conditions and administrative regimes provide useful insight into ways that these impacts may be reduced. A resilient response to future conditions would require considered management of water resources, labour, food production and distribution in northwest India. CRediT authorship contribution statement Anil K. Pokharia: Conceptualization, Investigation, Methodology, Project administration, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing, Formal analysis, Data curation, Funding acquisition. Himani Patel: Investigation, Writing – review & editing. Abhijit S. Ambekar: Investigation, Writing – review & editing, Funding acquisition. Michael Spate: Formal analysis, Visualization, Writing – original draft, Writing – review & editing. Deepika Tripathi: Investigation, Formal analysis. Shalini Sharma: Writing – review & editing. Rajesh Agnihotri: Investigation, Writing – original draft, Formal analysis. Keir M. Strickland: Investigation, Writing – review & editing.