asiatica as an alternative natural antioxidant and its protection against age-related changes in brain antioxidant defence system has been reported. Tannin and saponin from this plant have been reported to possess tumor preventing activity in animals. Relevance in food and culinary practises: It is eaten as vegetable together with the main meal and consumed as herbal tea. The roots of C. asiatica are high in amino acids, particularly glutamate, serine, alanine, threonine, aspartate, histidine, and lysine. It is also high in vitamin A (retinol), vitamin B1 (thiamine), vitamin B2 (riboflavin), vitamin C (ascorbic acid), vitamin B5 (niacin), and carotene. High content of phenols and flavonoids in the plants could be of health importance. Industrial relevance: C. asiatica have been used in var- ious polyherbal formulations for commercial applications especially in hair care products. It is known to nourish the hair follicles and scalp, reduce hair loss and breakage, strengthen hair strands and promote healthy hair growth. It is used in hair colour, anti-dandruff formulations, or- ganic shampoos, hair oils, hair gels, hair conditioners, and other hair care products. It is known for its potential to brighten and nourish the skin, reduce pigmentation, fine lines, dark circles, and provide overall skin rejuvenation. It is used in skin creams and toners, mask packs, cleansing balms, skin moisturizers, facial serums and other skincare formulations. Trade: The plants holds good economic value in NER as it is sold in open markets as vegetable and can be grow easily without requiring significant investments. The total annual estimated trade of this herb in the Indian market is between 500 and 1,000 MT, under the commercial name ‘Brahmi booti’. The price range of whole dried plant of C. asiatica is ` 95-100 per kg. Importers, buyers, processors, traditional practitioners, Ayurvedic and Siddha drug manufacturers are the major players in the trade of C. asiatica. Major phytochemicals: Madecassoside, asiaticoside, madecassic acid and asiatic acid are the major phytochemicals charactrized from C. asitica and used of its quality assurance. plant essential oil is a colourless mild scented oil with a yield of 0.06% and is reported to contain p-cymene (44 %) by GC-MS analysis. The other phytochemicals constituents includes α-copaene, α-terpinene, β-pinene, β-elemene, bornyl acetate, bicycloelemene, kaempferol, quercetin, tannin, trans-β- farnesene, β-caryophyllene, and germacrene-D, glutamic acid, serine, alanine, threonine, aspartic acid, histidine, lysine, centellin, asiaticin, and centellicin. Curcuma angustifolia Presence in NER: Curcuma angustifolia Roxb. (East Indian Arrowroot or Tikhur) has been largely reported from Assam and Manipur in NER. It is known as Yaipan in Manipuri and Gorusathaladhi in Assamese. Plant description: C.