 Experimental studies were taken up in different Divisions of Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar. PRA and field study Preliminary survey was done in Bareilly district to find out the use of neem in animal ailments, but the results were not very encouraging as most of the farmers were not using it in any specific kind of ailment though most of them agreed that it is very useful and has medicinal values. Neem has been extensively used in Ayurveda, Unani and homoeopathic medicines and has become a cynosure of modern medicine. The Sanskrit name of the neem tree is arishtha, meaning `reliever of sickness' and hence is considered as sarvaroganivarini. Neem kernel oil, neem bark and leaves contain isoprenoids and nonisoprenoides. Nimbidin, a major crude bitter principle extracted from the oil of seed kernels of A. indica, demonstrated several biological activities. It possesses antipyretic activity, which has also been reported and confirmed in nimbidin. Oral administration of nimbidin has significant hypoglycaemic effect in fasting rabbits. It also Fig. 1. Twigs of neem   VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY possesses antiulcer, antifungal, antimalarial, immunostimulant, antibacterial, antioxidant and antiviral activity. Experiment In-vitro analysis of neem kernel oil and oil extract of neem leaves. Antibacterial efficacy of the neem kernal oil and oil extract of neem leaves was seen against pathogenic microorganisms. Staphylococcus aureus and E.coli pathogenic strains were isolated from animals, standard culture of the bacterial isolates obtained from Division of Standardization, IVRI. The young cultures were Fig. 2. In-vitro antimicrobial sensitivity of neem oil vis-a-vis standard antibiotic Table 1. Efficacy of neem oil against mange infestation in dogs Treatment No. of Quantity of Duration Recovery Remarks animals drug (%) Conventional 5 As per standard 4 applications 89 Poisonous and treatment schedule at 7 days interval costly treatment Neem bark + 8 20 ml./animal 9–15 days 43 Very safe and less neem oil costlier treatment c  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY propagated in nutrient broth, and seeded over the nutrient agar. In 5 mm wells on the agar plates, 500, 750 and 850 µl, of neem-kernel oil was filled. Similarly, same quantity of oil extract of neem leaves was also filled. In the centre of the plates standard antibiotic plates were placed. Antibiotics used were penicillin, streptomycin, enrofloxacin, cloxacillin and ceftiozyme. Efficacy of neem oil against mange infestation in dogs Skin scrapping was collected from 13 dogs suffering from parasitic infestation and examined for the presence of mites. Heavily infested dogs were given conventional therapy whereas less affected dogs were given ITK treatment (Table1). lesions caused by bacteria. The smears stained with Grams staining for identification of pathogenic organisms. Gram staining revealed mainly Gram-positive cocci as (Table 2).