 ATMA: Agricultural Technology Management Agency, DoA: Department of Agriculture, ICAR: Indian Council for Agricultural Research, FFS: Farmers Field School, FBO/SHG: Farmer-based organization / Self help group, SAU: State Agricultural University, KVK: Krishi Vigyan Kendra (Farm Science center), NGO: Non-government organization Source: International Food Policy Research Institute, 2010 Agricultural extension approaches in India For a long time since independence, extension services were being provided mainly by the public sector. At present also the public sector is major extension service providers through a two-tier system. At the central level, Indian Council of Agriculture Research (ICAR) is the nodal institute for agriculture research and extension; while at the state level, the State Agricultural Universities (SAU) via the Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVKs) and Agriculture Technology Management Agency (ATMA) at the district level facilitate agriculture extension. However, the public extension is highly skewed towards crop husbandry ignoring allied sectors. Besides the existing public extension service system, there are several private players, civil-society organizations including farmer-based organizations and NGOs that play a major role in providing extension services (Birner and Anderson 2007). Agriculture extension system by non-public players Input dealers: At present, there are 2.82 lakhs input dealers in the country who are marketing seeds, pesticides, fertilizers, farm machinery. A study estimates that 13% of farmers get their information from input dealers in the country (Singh et al. 2016). However, a major complaint against input dealers is that they involve in product promotion instead of technical advice to the farmers. To address this issue, the government of India recognizing the importance of this category of extension support to farmers has started offering a course by MANAGE and other recognized institutes on input use efficiently this will help Input Dealers to brush up on the latest technical knowledge in various sub-sectors of agriculture and to certify them as qualified Input Dealers. Agribusiness companies: Private sector agribusiness and input manufacturing companies (ITC, Nuziveedu Seeds, IFFCO, KRIBCO, Pepsico, Heritage etc.) also undertake direct extension activities, these extension activities are in support of their product brand and seek to help the farmers to realize higher production (and thus returns) through necessary pre-sowing preparation, optimum seed rate, correct agronomic practices, application of nutrients and harvesting techniques. NGOs: In India, there are 3 million registered NGOs of which many are actively involved in the development of rural areas and naturally oriented themselves towards land- based livelihoods. Hence, they accommodate an essential component of extension in their intervention (Ashok Gulati et al. 2018). To name a few of the NGOs which are PRADAN, BAIF, Syngenta Foundation, India etc.