 Name of the Magazines Annual Subscription in (`) (US$)* • Indian Farming (English Monthly) • Indian Horticulture (English Bi-Monthly) • Kheti (Hindi Monthly) • Phal Phool (Hindi Bi-Monthly) 300 150 300 150 50 30 While placing order, the name and address with email, may be given in block letter. The Post Office, District, State and PIN code may also be indicated. When bulk order are to be executed through railway parcels the name of the Railway Station & name of road transport company may also be given. A. Payment should be made through Bank Draft or Net Banking. The remittance may be drawn in favour of the "Business Manager, ICAR, New Delhi". B. Payment through online (RTGS/NEFT). PFMS Unique Code: DLND00001925 (for Govt. Department & ICAR Institutes) *Foreign price mentioned are inclusive of postal and forwarding charges by Air Mail. Note: Please furnish the details of the payment with your name & address, NEFT/RTGS number, date, amount in R/US$, Bank name and address alongwith details of your order of Books and Magazines/Journals subscription to the E-mail: businessuniticar@gmail.com Contact: Business Manager, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Indian Council of Agricultural Research Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telephone: 011-25843657 (D) 011-25841993 (Ext. 657 & 220) Website: www.icar.org.in Indian Horticulture 42 GUIDELINES TO AUTHORS Visit us at http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal/index.php/IndHort Online submissions of article : • Alredy have a Username/Password for Indian Horticulture? GO TO LOGIN • Need a Username/Password? GO TO REGISTRATION • Registration and login are required to submit items on-line and to check the status of current submissions. Author Guidelines Title of the article: Catchy, short and attractive; Compel the readers to read the article; Time-oriented; Serve the purpose of audience – means it should be audience-oriented, and News-oriented. Intro/Introductory Paragraph: It has gist of the article; Preferably give answers of all 4 Ws and 1 H; Ws stands for: what, where, why and when, H stands for: how; and Intro paragraph should convey the complete message so that reader is satisfied. Introduction: The very first paragraph of the article is known as Introduction; It is an introduction for the article; It shows the need of writing article. For example, we write an article on a new hybrid. We have to write its importance that it is better in such and such regards, and It should be of one paragraph or two paragraphs, if the subject is broader. Text of article: Remaining text should be in a descending order of importance; Emphasize on your own findings; Follow proper heading scheme; Use key words in headings; Follow central heading, side heading, subheading, inset heading etc. General guidelines: Follow guidelines strictly. In popular articles, number of authors should not be more than 3.