 Most farmers in the region practice zero cost farming with herd sizes of 1-2 animals kept around their kitchen gardens. The market linkage was uncertain and dependant on a series of middlemen. Arohan Foods with the technical support of ICAR-NRC on Pig, introduced a system of guaranteed pricing where farmers were assured of revenues for healthy pigs any day of the year. Arohan Foods has now formally started working with farmer groups to ensure hygiene, productivity and commercialisation of pig rearing. Many of the farmers visit the institute to observe the high standards of farming and meet the scientists to understand the benefits of organised piggery compared to zero cost piggery. They have also attracted foreign direct investment from C4D partners, a Holland based foundation for their work in the backward integration of piggery. The company and their products have been covered by a multitude of magazines and newspapers, with CNBC Awaz visiting the ICAR NRCP campus to conduct a live interview of the team in action. Anabil Goswami one of the founders and person who leads the production and technical aspects of the enterprise says “When we approached ICAR NRCP, we had no idea of how it would progress with none of us ever having engaged formally with a research organisation. We were only interested in the technology and commercial aspects of the same. Initially our focus was only sausages and salami, now we see piggery as a means to help 1000s of farmers. We came for the technology, stayed for the mentorship. The guidance we got has helped us in establishing a commercially viable enterprise and today our customers are very happy with the quality and taste of our products. We are currently developing new products in association with ICAR-NRC on Pig and this will enable us to scale new heights. The whole team at NRC on Pig has helped us throughout this exciting journey.” Way forward Arohan Foods has come a long way from 2012, when they had come to learn the basics of pork processing, till today where they are working with multiple agencies to create sustainable value chains for pig farmers across North East India. Arindom Hazarika one of the founders who looks at marketing and liaison says “We were a group of engineers and bankers. If someone had told us we would be working with 3,000 pig farmers we would not have believed them. Part of the reason for change is the bond and passion we share with ICAR NRCP Indian Farming January 2020 42 and the Scientists who have guided us over the last 7 years. What started as a purely manufacturing endeavour has now developed into a fully fledged mission for working across the piggery value chain. We have received timely guidance on technologies; research and exposure from the institute that has helped us non veterinarians embrace a line of business that is tangential to our education.