 yy For management of vegetable nursery (of tomato, capsicum and brinjal) against wetting disease, spray and thoroughly saturate the soil with 75 WS Thiaram or 50 WP Caftan @ 2 gm per liter to prevent in nursery vegetables. 35 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS General Guidelines for Animal Husbandry, Dairy &Fisheries yy Scheduled pre-monsoon vaccination of FMD/HS and Artificial Insemination (AI) should be continued in consultation with veterinary officer on door-to-door basis rather than direct visit to the dispensaries. yy Farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral mixture @ 50-60 g/day in adult dairy animals and 20-30 gm in small ruminants to maintain productivity. yy Farmers are allowed to purchase livestock and poultry feeds, medicines etc. by following social distancing and personal hygiene measures. yy Ensure the traceability of feedstuffs brought on to the farm and also secure feed and fodder supplies from sustainable sources. yy If there is temporary shortage of availability of green fodder or concentrate feed, farmer can also prepare home-made feed by using grains like wheat, maize wheat bran, oil cakes and salt. They can also prepare silage for their adult dairy animals. yy Farmers have to follow general hygiene practices when handling animals and animal’s products. Washing hands before and after feeding and milking animals with soap and water or using alcohol- based sanitizer. yy Farmers are advised to clean the floor of animal housing regularly with phenol@1 ml per litre of water and white washing of the feeding and watering trough to prevent infection. Disinfect the farm premises with suitable chemicals such as 1% hypochloride + bleaching powder (7gm in 1 litre of water) or 1% sodium hypochlorite or 0.5% hydrogen peroxide or 2% Sodium hydroxide etc. with proper care. yy Do not spray chemicals/disinfectants on feed & fodder and animal body. yy Frequent cleaning and sanitation of milk utensils and equipment’s should be practised with suitable detergent. While delivering and 36 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS pouring milk use mask and safe distance of one arm between two persons yy Adequate personal safety measures along with social distancing to be taken for loading and transporting of animal produce and while participating in sale at market yards/milk collection centres. yy Phenol mixed or KMNO4 (potassium permanganate) solution with water to be kept every time in the footbath at the entrance. yy Any person engaged in delivery of fresh food of animal origin is advised to wear protective apron, head cover, mask and gloves besides dressing properly with clean clothing. yy Consumption of chicken and eggs along with other meat products may be considered safe. yy Farmers are advised to download and install AAROGYA SETU App of Government of India for regular guidance and monitoring of COVID-19.