 Regular collection and use of crop waste, generated in routine, or those which can be obtained from dropping of foliage from nearby trees and lawns should be placed in gaps as mulching material. Mulching and its drenching with bio-enhancer will help in quality production. If possible, after thorough filtrations, these can be used as foliar spray. In general, there is minimum possibility of insect pest occurrence, but in case of incidence, simple practices such as use of light trap/ pheromone trap/ cow urine, cow butter milk or neem oil is beneficial. Precautions yy Conservation of kitchen waste and other organic waste should be a regular practice rather than throwing in the garbage, yy Decomposition of these materials in container or as mulch should be inculcated as hobby, yy Mulching is integral part of rooftop garden, yy If possible, structure may be made for climbing vegetables plants, yy Regular use of bio-enhancers (Jeevamrita/Amritpani/ Cow Pat Pit) for quick decomposition of materials filled in bio-digester or those mulched in gaps of the crop will enhance quality production. Sponge gourd (Luffa acutangula) and Satputia production March–April 2023 93 Knowl khol and cherry tomato production Capsicum, lettuce and coriander production In fact rooftop/terrace production of vegetables crops is a source of physical exercise, management of kitchen wastes and pesticide free food for family members. It appears to be simple but has many implications such as regular supply of quality produce, high esteem of family members particularly children and old persons in the family. By this gesture one can help in cleaning the home, nearby area and help in minimizing air pollution. Besides these efforts, there are some climbing plants such as gourds, pole beans and grape, passion fruit, etc can be trained to grow along the height of building, spread at the top of it. The other alternative is to grow them in suitable structures in balconies, grow there or train downward for bearing. It is important to mention that there is regular dropping of older leaves, this needs to be collected and utilized as mulch materials. Crops like chilies, coriander, basil, few cucurbits and some vegetable which have tendency of bearing over longer duration are preferred. It is customary to have a small structure at rooftop made with local material for climbing vegetable such as sponge gourd, snake gourd, bottle gourd, bitter gourd, pointed gourd, climbing beans, etc. which can be trained on these structures to get some home grown vegetables. Advantage of rooftop/terrace gardening yy Rooftop/terrace gardening is a pleasant hobby to every person, particularly aged people and growing children. yy Just like senior citizens, it provides equal opportunity to children to gain self-confidence of creating some positive contribution. yy It gives inner joy to keep watch on different stages in plant growth right from germination to growth, flowering, fruiting and harvesting.