 Karthikeyan and Chandra Kandan (1996) 19 Winnowing by using winnower(Solavu) The grains are winnowed in a device called a Solavu and the grains are dropped from a height. This separates the dust from the grains. To increase the height, the farmers stand on a cart or use a step-like structure called a Kokkali. Three different types of Solavu are used. One is made out of sheaths of the Morinda tintoria, a member of the mulberry family known locally as Manjanathi; the two other types are made of bamboo and palmyrah leaves (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 143 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 20 Cleaning of dry grains It is performed using a container made of tin called ‘Shoop’ or ‘Chhaj’. The grains are placed in the Chhaj and slow winnowing leads to separation of dirt and husk from the grain (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 21 Winnowing of dry grains Cleaning of grains is done using a container madeof bamboo sticks called ‘Panaudi’. The dry grains placed in it is allowed to fall from a height of about 4-5 feet in a thin vertical flow in the path of a cross wind. The lighter dirt particles and the husk are blown away and the heavier grain is separated as it falls straight to the ground. The use of a fan (mechanical or electrical) greatly accelerates this process (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 22 Winnowing of millets and pulses by using broomsticks (Vallippumar) Piles of grains are winnowed with the aid of a Vallippumar, a kind of broomstick made up of coconut leaves. Other types, made of plants like cotton stalk, redgram stems and Manjanathi, are also used to heap the threshed produce (Tamil Nadu). Parvathi et al. (2000) 23 Packaging of food commoditie Containers made of bamboo sticks called ‘Ddalh’ are used for packing grain, maize cobs, potato, ginger, turmeric etc. For packing and carrying flour, Ddalh is lined internally with cowdung. Tokroo is a similar container butsmall in size. These containers are carried on head and they can be easily washed and dried. The wide usage of thse containers was probably due to easy availability of bamboo wood (Lower areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 24 Sack for storing grains Sack made of goat skin is used to store farmproduce (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 25 Post-harvest techniques of rice among the tribes of Surguja district of Chhattisgarh Use of storage bin made from paddy straw (Para) is the major structure for storage of paddy seed in Surguja district of Chhattisgarh. Earthen pots and bins made by mud + cowdung+ rice husk are the other storage structures for storing the seeds. Home-made seed bins are major storage structure for storing rice grain for consumption purpose (Surguja, Chhattishgarh). Sharma and Sharma (2002) 144 POST-HARVEST TECHNOLOGY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 26 Post-harvest management of food grains Foodgrain loss during storage accounts for 2.