 The sensors used were spectroradiometer (VNIR-ASD) and JPL-NASA imaging sensor, i.e. AVIRIS-NG, both working in optical spectral range of 400–2500 nm, Spectrometers (FTIR) which records absorbance and emissivity values in Mid-Infra-Red (MIR) range of 2,000– 16,000 nm. Predictive models were developed for 14 soil fertility parameter using different machine learning algorithms and evaluated results obtained from wet chemistry. The result revealed that MIR-absorbance based technology was found the best in prediction of soil fertility (with R2 mostly above 0.85) one followed by the spectroradiometer-reflectance based for soil fertility assessment in laboratory conditions. However, Airborne imaging sensor (i.e. AVIRIS-NG) could also predict with R2 mostly above 0.5 for field conditions which will be very useful for large scale prediction with moderate accuracy. Digital soil mapping was also employed using remote sensing derived environmental co-variates, legacy soil test data and machine learning algorithms for developing predictive spatial maps of 21 soil fertility parameters for ICAR-Indian Agricultural Research Institute experimental fields with reasonable accuracy. Same procedures will be implemented in many other regions of the country for large scale use. Both these technologies developed will be very helpful for complimenting to national soil health card programme. Drone based near real monitoring of crop condition for precision farming: Drone remote sensing technology was developed to monitor near real time crop condition through quantitative assessment of plant biophysical parameters such leaf area index (LAI), canopy chlorophyll (CCC) and nitrogen content (CNC) of wheat crop for site specific nitrogen application using variable rate technology. This is quite cost effective and environment friendly technology which can be immediately used by the farmers. Mobile based nitrogen (N) management in rice crop: A mobile based RiceNXpert was developed which recommends timing and dose of N fertilizer based on 10 photographs of rice leaves. ❑ INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION TECHNOLOGY Biophysical parameters of wheat field derived from drone imaging LAI (m2 m-2) CCC (gm-2) CNC (gm-2) (al) (bl) 7 6.5 6 5.5 5 4.5 4 3.5 42 40 38 36 34 32 30 28 24 22 3.4 3.2 3 2.8 2.6 2.4 2.2 2 1.8 1.6 1.4 N N N ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 166 17. Technology Assessment, Demonstration and Capacity Development Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), district level multidisciplinary scientific institutions for frontline extension, are mandated for technology assessment and demonstration for its application and capacity development under different farming situations across the country through on-farm testing (OFTs) of new technologies to identify location specific technologies in various farming systems; frontline demonstrations (FLDs) for exhibiting the production potential of the technologies and capacity development of farmers, farm women, rural youth and extension personnel.