 Goat farmers of Central and North Chhattisgarh may choose among breeds like Jamunapari, Beetal and Sirohi while Southern regions may prefer Black Bengal instead of Sirohi. Farmers need to upgrade their desi nondescript goat stocks with male of these breeds. The males should be replaced or exchanged once in two years to avoid inbreeding. Hence, all replacements should be done before the onset of Rabi so that the new animal inducted may have sufficient time for acclimatization. In order to synchronize them improved hormonal technology may be used, or buck may be in a partitioned corral of woven-wire net so that the does and the buck may have full view of each other. This may be done a week or two before or during the breeding season. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 345 Efforts should always be made to avoid kidding during the peak winter season of January month which can be practically achieved by a planned breeding avoiding summer season within a specified period between 15th May to 15th June. This will save the kids from cold susceptibility and resultant pneumonic death during winter. Goats are particularly sensitive to cold and winter rains triggers many diseases. Farmers of northern regions of the state should provide covered night shelters during peak winter but should not use fireplace or sigri to warm the closed shelter because this may lead to quick accumulation of noxious gasses and can be life threatening. Small and weak animals should be covered with a body cover made from jute gunny bags or cotton cloth. Such animals should be given warm water with added jiggery. The beddings of animals need to be replaced more frequently during Rabi. This will protect them from cold as well as diseases especially parasitic diseases. In this season due to close contact of herding animals like sheep and goats’ infectious diseases spreads faster. Farmers need to be vigilant for off-feed animals and symptoms like running nose, sneezing, and coughing. During this season, to escape from severe winter, large flocks of migratory sheep and goats arrive from parts of HP, UP, Gujrat and Rajasthan into the central parts of Chhattisgarh through MP and Maharashtra. All such flocks, if not previously, need to be vaccinated against HS, FMD, PPR and Enterotoxaemia and quarantined for 15 days at border areas. Local sheep and goat farmers should make every attempt not to allow their own flocks to mix with these migratory herds. Commercial and Backyard Poultry Commercial large poultry farms have little seasonal variation in their rearing practice. However, due to increased market demand ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 346 they should plan their production cycle so that their output increases by a significant margin to gain more profits, loess stocking and cater to consumer requirement. Commercial poultry farmers should adhere strictly to their vaccination schedule which is dependent on age of birds rather than seasonality.