 yy Physiological mature cobs which going to use as seed for next season should be harvest as quick as possible as moderate to heavy rain is predicted. yy Tall varieties like MZM 11, Ganga hybrid and local Popcorn should be avoided in areas prone to heavy rainfall and gusty wind. yy Earthing up of the base of the plant should be done to avoid topping over of the plant. yy For controlling of FAW incidence, apply Ash or spray Soap water into the whorl of affected Maize plant. yy For chemical control of FAW infestation, spray Emamectin benzoate @ 0.4 ml/ ltr of water or Spinetoram @ 0.5 ml/lit of water or Lambdacyholothrine + Thiomethoxam @ 0.25 ml/ltr of water or Chlorantranilipore 18.5 % SC @ 0.4ml/ltr of water. yy Chemical control measures should not be taken when the plant starts bearing tassel. Ginger yy Rhizome should be treated with Copper Oxychloride (3%) + Streptomycin (0.5%) for 30 minutes. Dry under shade for 24 hours before sowing. yy Should be showed by 1st to 3rd week of May in the fields. With spacing of 25cm row to row and plant to plant maintained. yy Earthing up should be done during July to protect Rhizome fly infestation. yy Spray Quinalphos @ 2ml/lts of water for management of Shoot borer. 140 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Prophylactic spray with Carbendazim @ 1g/ltr of water for disease management. Snake Gourd (Vegetative Stage) yy Due to prevailing windy weather, farmers are advised to adopt agro- techniques such as trailing and staking of vines to modify the fruit set and fruit yield provide staking or trailing to the crops at the height of 1.5-2.0 meter. yy Farmers are advised to spray Sulfur Plant Fungicide @ 2.0 g/ltr of water for effective control of powdery mildew, rust and leaf spot. Papaya (Vegetative Stage) yy Farmers are advised to apply irrigation 3-5 days interval to 1-year young plants since no rainfall was observed. yy Mealy bug infestation may be higher due to higher temperature and no rainfall. Farmer should apply soap water to dissolve the wax layer then apply Imidacloprid 17.8% SL @ 0.5ml/ltr of water in next day to control the insect. yy There is a chance of powdery mildew infestation due to prolong dry weather and less humidity in day time. Farmers may apply wet-table sulphur WDG 90% 2.0 gm/ltr of water to control the disease. Tomato yy Indeterminate tomato varieties namely Solan lalima and Arka Rakshak are recommended for Kharif season yy Nursery bed should be prepared by first week of May. Bring the soil into fine tilt and raise the bed to 10-15 cm above ground level. Mix well rotten farmyard manure/ compost or leaf compost in the soil. To make the soil free from soil-borne disease-causing pathogens (Damping-off), drench the bed with 0.1% solution of Captan or Fytolan. Cover immediately with polythene sheet or gunny bag for 2 days. Uncover the soil and get it loosened and leave it as such for 3-4 days. Thoroughly mix Malathion 5% dust in order to protect the seedlings from soil-borne insects.