 Activities relating to HRD/ capacity building of farmers/ beekeepers and field functionaries/ officials, other extension activities, development of infrastructural facilities, including setting up of Integrated Beekeeping Developing Centres (IBDCs), development of quality nucleus stock, bee breeders, setting up of bee diseases diagnostic labs, honey & other beehive products testing labs, custom hiring centres, Api therapy centre, etc., will be promoted. B. Mini Mission-II: will concentrate on postharvest management of beekeeping/ beehive products, including collection, processing, storage, marketing, value addition, export, promotion, etc., setting up of honey and other beehive products processing units, modernization/ up- gradation/ extension of old honey and other beehive products processing units/plants, setting up of in-house quality testing labs, facilitation for marketing/ export of honey and other beehive products, etc. C. Mini Mission-III: will concentrate on research & technology generation in beekeeping for different regions/ states/ agro-climatic and socio-economic conditions. The Farmers Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act 2020: 1.11.3 This will allow liberal trade, provide more options to farmer for sale of their farming produce, promote barrier free inter- state and intra State trade. 1.11.3.1 This Act is an extremely important step to provide a more competitive and hassle free eco-system where farmers and traders have the choice to sell their produce in an efficient, transparent and competitive environment so as to realise remunerative prices. This will facilitate barrier free intra-state and inter- state trade of farmers’ produce and enable farmers with freedom of choice to sell their produce at remunerative prices in trade area outside APMC regulated markets. 1.11.3.2 The mandate of “The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020” is not to replace the State APMC Act. This will motivate APMCs to improve their efficiency and provide better facilities to farmers. This will act as a additional channel while the existing APMCs already facilitating farmers in obtaining better remunerative prices for their produce. The provisions of the State Mandi Act and “The Farmers’ Produce Trade and Commerce (Promotion and Facilitation) Act, 2020” will play together to yield remunerative prices to the farmers through successful enforcement of better marketing practices. 8 The Farmers’ (Empowerment and Protection) Agreement on Price Assurance and Farm Services Act, 2020: 1.