 During this period, rice cultivation was extended to various areas Indian Agriculture after Independence 32 with irrigation facilities available and millets were restricted to rain-fed areas of Deccan and Mysore plateau. Besides, sugarcane, sesame, ginger, pumpkin, yam, mango, coconut and jackfruit were cultivated throughout the regions. Various Rajput rulers ruled north India during AD 650-1155, while Palas and Senas in Bengal during AD 760-1205. In lexicons written in Sanskrit, eight varieties of rice different in colours, fragrance, size and growing periods have been mentioned. Magadha was famous for rice, while rice was part of king’s dietary in Kalinga. The seven varieties of beans have also been mentioned in those literature. Coconut, ginger and cinnamon were grown in plenty. Cotton and indigo were also in cultivation in different kingdoms. The writings of Medhaitithi, Parashara, Kashyapa and early Arabs mentioned in some details the agricultural practices followed during AD 900-1100. Their scripts mentioned that mango, coconut, lemons and rice were grown in large quantities, while sugarcane, pepper and bamboo in specific areas. Kashyapa provided the explicit details of transplanting, weeding, irrigation, crop protection measures, harvesting, threshing, selection of seeds and storage of rice cultivation. The unique quality of ‘pundra’ sugarcane in producing juice without pressing by any equipment has been specially mentioned. Besides, cultivation of various cereals (barley, wheat and Italian millet), pulses (lentil, green gram, black gram and chickpea), oilseed (sesame), spices (turmeric, ginger and cardamom), vegetables (brinjal, cucurbits and gourd) and fruits (date, coconut, mango and jamun) during their time. The Islamic empire, Delhi Sultanate stretched over large parts of the Indian subcontinent during 1206-1526. Ibn Battuta had a detailed mention of crops grown during this period. The people grew crops twice a year, one with the arrival of rain during summer, and the other during spring. Rice, millets, green gram and black gram were grown during the summer season and harvested after 60 days during autumn season. Wheat, barley, chickpea and lentils were grown during the spring season. Ibn Battuta also mentioned that people in the Indian subcontinent grew rice – the principal cereal crop, three times a year and sugarcane and sesame during the summer season with onset of rain. When he left for southern states, he found abundance of pepper, ginger, sugarcane, coconut and betel vine cultivation in Kerala, and rice in Bengal. Mahaum, a Chinese scholar visited Bengal in 1604, also mentioned the abundance of rice, wheat, millets, pulses, mustard, sesame, ginger, onion, squash, brinjal, hemp, jack fruit, mango, pomegranate, sugarcane and betel nut in Bengal. Vijayanagar empire (1336-1646) emerged after the control of Tughlak empire receded.