 For protecting the poultry from extreme stress condition, proper housing with ventilation should be provided. Avoid bright bulbs in poultry shed for lighting. The deep litters should be frequently turned and mixed with limes to prevent dampening and cake formation leading fungal growth. Strict Bio-security procedures should be followed at poultry farms. Foot bath should be provided at entrance of the farm with phenyl, Dettol, Savlon etc. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 227 The area surrounding the poultry should be cleaned and disinfected by spraying Hypochloride solutions, phenol solutions or dusting with lime. Empty poultry shed should be cleaned and fumigated with formalin and potassium per-magnate or may be sprayed with 10% formalin solution for disinfection. Balanced feeding of poultry should be practiced. If possible low-cost feed should be formulated from locally available feed ingredients viz. Broken rice, rice bran, coconut cake, Chunni (pulse), Till Cake, Fishmeal, Azolla, Shell grits etc. The poultry feed should be properly stored in a dry and cool place to prevent the dampening and moulding of the feed. Artificial brooding should be provided to the chicks upto 4-6 weeks for healthy growth and to reduce mortality. Clean palatable water should be provided ad.lib. Electrolyte should be provided for combating heat-stress. Avoid herding or farming of different species in the same premises. Always wear mask, use sanitizer, or wash hands using soaps and maintain social distancing in the farms and marketplaces. Fisheries Provide sufficient comfortable zone to fish below the surface layer, which gets heated up beyond optimum temperature range (28- 32oC) during summers, by maintaining 5-6 feet water depth. Provision of partial shading of the pond with no- deciduous trees or other means mitigate the impact of high temperature. Oxygen levels may fall to lethal levels, especially during dawn, due to enhanced biological activity in the pond. Hence, aerating the ponds during early hours of the day before sunrise, either by adding fresh water or by aerators. Optimum oxygen level (≥ 5 mg/l or ppm) will keep the fish healthy and increase its food converting efficiency, leading to fast growth ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 228 and higher productivity. If the fish come on the surface to gasp atmospheric air, provide aeration, and also suspend manuring and feeding of fish. Partial water exchange improves water quality. The diurnal variation in water pH should be checked, which may fluctuate beyond recommended range of 7.5 to 9 due to excessive growth of algal blooms in the pond. Manuring /fertilization of pond shall be suspended in case water turns dark green, dark brown or greenish brown in color and a green, brown, or sometimes red colored algal mat appears on the water surface. Regular bottom racking with the help of barbed wire is recommended to prevent the accumulation of toxic gases like ammonia and carbon dioxide.