 All the fruits and vegetables are harvested and collected, brought to a consolidation centre and then graded and after proper segregation of different grades, packing is done according to the grade and then labelled by the centre and priced according to the market they are going to be sold. All these 4 centres are not professionally run. They have all records being kept as the traceability of the produce and market are properly recorded. The results reveal that the unavailability of professional consolidators are affecting the real expansion of the concept. It is also one of the reason why farmers are not opting for such linkages for getting better income for their produce. Consumers Eight selected consumers of organic fruits and vegetables in Palakkad urban town were surveyed to know their perception. The consumers are now more health conscious and they prefer organic produce than the normal produce. The consciousness of the consumers has been increasing steadily since the Kasargode Endosulphan issue. The consumers were ready to pay a premium price for the organic produce. The consumers were of the mixed opinion on certified organic and by virtue organic. The respondents selected were from elite class as well as upper middle class who are the purchasers of organic produce. The respondents were youngsters and middle aged people and they were well aware of the use of organic produce and they are of the opinion that organic produce should be certified and value chain needs to more stronger to ensure traceability and ensure quality of the produce. Perception of farmers and consumers analysis An analysis based on the survey of organic farmers, consumers and value addition centres using the elements of marketing mix was conducted. Product Product is considered as one of the prime elements in the marketing mix. In organic fruits and vegetables marketing, all production aspects consolidate to become a product. Proper planning of the production cycle, November–December 2021 47 selection of crop cycle, pre and post harvesting techniques deployment, all add to the product attributes. The product here was jackfruit, mango or vegetables and in case of jackfruit, the farmers harvest it when they are getting an indent or order from the collection centres. Then they grade it and cut it and take the flakes and remove the seeds and pack in food grade containers and then it will be taken by the collection centres and transported to the centres and from the centres they are transported to the retail shops as per the intend received by the centre. Here the traceability, cleanliness, appeal, packaging are all comprising to form a product and the perception of the consumers towards such an organic produce is positive and their preference is high. In case of mango and vegetables, grading happens according to shape, size and texture and fully matured fruit or vegetable is packed either in tray or carton boxes which are supplied by the consolidation centres.