 Her vision for the future includes expanding her farm to include more diverse crops and livestock, as well as establishing a community seed bank to preserve and promote local varieties of seeds. CONCLUSION Smt Gloria Sangtam’s journey from a struggling farmer to a successful practitioner of Natural Farming is a testament to the power of sustainable agriculture and the impact it can have on individual lives and communities. Her story is one of resilience, determination and the willingness to embrace change in the face of adversity. Through her efforts, She has not only transformed her own life but has also paved the way for a brighter, more sustainable future for her community. As Smt Gloria’s story continues to inspire others, the hope is that more farmers in Nagaland and beyond will follow her example, adopting natural farming practices that are not only beneficial. *Corresponding author email: karibasappacsk@gmail.com Indian Farming 58 November 2024 Transforming the rural economy through recycling agricultural waste Shinogi K. C.1*, A. K. Vishwakarma2, S. P. Datta1, Asha Sahu1, K. Bharati1, B. L. Lakaria3, A. O. Shirale4, A. L. Kamble5, R. K. Singh1, R. H. Wanjari1, Narayan Lal1, S. Srivastava1, I. C. Haokip1, D. K. Yadav1, H. R. Nagar1, A. B. Singh1, A. K. Patra1 and S. R. K. Singh6 1ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil Science, Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh 462 038 ²AICRP on Sesame and Niger, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482 004 ³ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil and Water Conservation (Regional Centre), Chandigarh, Punjab 160 019 ⁴ICAR-National Bureau of Soil Survey and Land Use Planning, Nagpur, Maharashtra 440 033 ⁵ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Education, Mumbai, Maharashtra 400 061 ⁶ICAR-Agricultural Technology Application Research Institute, Jabalpur, Madhya Pradesh 482 004 Under the circumstances of increasing cultivation costs particularly due to the hike in fertilizer costs coupled with second-generation problems related to deteriorating soil health and declining factor productivity, farmers are encouraged to adopt agricultural waste recycling technologies to reduce reliance on external nutrient inputs. During 2017-2024, ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil Science (IISS), Bhopal demonstrated different on-farm waste management techniques to the farmers of Khamkheda, Kalyanpura, Kanchbavli, and Berupura villages of Bhopal, Madhya Pradesh in connection with the ICAR initiative ‘Farmer FIRST Programme’. With composting, though a considerable amount of production cost was saved, a few farmers of these villages made use of the ‘vermicomposting’ technology to set up small-scale enterprises in the area. This article highlights the journey of a young Agripreneur who successfully transformed his farming and farm- based livelihood in a short time period, with the support of agricultural information sources and technology providers near his village Kalyanpura located in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh.