 It is observed that around 25–45% of post-harvest losses occurs in mango, that can be successfully reduced by following proper post-harvest handling operations, which includes; trimming, desapping, sanitization, grading, hot water treatment, waxing etc. Mango is usually harvested when fully matured, but in the unripe stage; as it is highly perishable in nature it can be artificially ripened at the destination market before sale. Plastic crate, wooden boxes and corrugated fiberboard can be used for packaging of mangoes that can be transported in refrigerated vehicles to decrease the post-harvest losses. Keywords: Mango, Post harvest loss, Post harvest handling Indian Farming 73 (04): 02-05; April 2023 M ANGO (Mangifera indica) also known as the king of fruits, is mainly grown in tropical and sub- tropical regions in India from sea level to an altitude of 1500 meters. According to latest FAOSTAT data, India is the world’s largest producer of mango with production quantity of 24 million tonnes (MT) in 2020. Nearly 1000 varieties of mango are found in India but, only few are grown commercially. Majorly, mango growing states are Uttar Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Karnataka, Bihar, Gujarat and Tamil Nadu. India is also a largest exporter of fresh mango to the world and major export destinations are United Arab Emirates, UK, Oman, Qatar and Kuwait. According to the Agricultural and processed food products, export development authority (APEDA), India has exported around 21,033.58 MT of fresh mangoes to the world for the worth of `271.84 crores during the year 2020–21. Huge demand of Indian mangoes has been noticed in the US, but due to Covid-19 pandemic its export to US is restricted since 2020. In 2019–2020, around 1,095 MT worth `29 crores was exported to the US and it is anticipated that this figure will exceed by 2022. Generally, around 25–45% of post- harvest losses occur in mango. It is very important to follow proper post-harvest operations in mango to maintain the desirable quality that helps in ease of exportation in the national and international market. Trimming and desapping Cutting the stem that remains after harvesting of fruit is known as trimming. It is crucial to cut these stems before packaging, as it can break off during handling which results in oozing out of sap/latex and staining on the mango skin. Furthermore, if this latex dried than it becomes difficult to remove it from mango surface. Mango quality matters a lot when it comes for exportation. For mango producers and exporters, sap-burn (also called latex burn) is the major concern, as it decreases the cosmetic quality of fruit which ultimately results in lesser economic return especially in International markets. This latex/ sap is highly acidic (pH 4.3) in nature, that causes a brownish-black to black streaks or blotches when comes in contact with mango skin and also results in allergic reactions in human skin.