 The dryland technologies including natural resource management, crop management and livelihood activities were demonstrated covering a total of 503 households. The farmers, women and youth were trained on improved dryland technologies including farm mechanization and on various skilling activities. Digital platforms for knowledge dissemination Scaling knowledge through digital innovations like mobile technology, e-learning platforms, and social media networks can bridge these gaps. Digital education platforms can enhance understanding of climate- resilient practices. Collaborative approaches, including public-private partnerships and farmer-led innovations, are also vital for scaling impact. Case studies like index- based crop insurance programs and Indian agri-tech start-ups using Artificial Intelligence (AI) for precision farming highlight the potential of these innovations to scale across regions. Digital dissemination of technologies and other extension activities by ICAR-CRIDA As part of the institute’s project, 'Model Village Approach for Assessment and Dissemination of Dryland Technologies,' a WhatsApp group was created, including beneficiaries of the project, to provide agro-advisory services. Through this platform, timely diagnoses of pests and diseases are facilitated by sharing images and videos. Similarly, under the Farmer FIRST Programme (FFP), a WhatsApp group was established for farmers offering advisory services. Social media platforms like Facebook and Twitter are also used to disseminate information about CRIDA outreach programmes to various stakeholders. During 2023-24, ICAR-CRIDA sensitized 504 farmers, 4,138 students, and 44 officials from different states about dryland technologies through video demonstrations. A range of advisories is also provided through phone calls, text messages, and other means to extend support. Experiences of National Innovations on Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA) NICRA is a network project of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) launched in February, 2011. The NICRA project has successfully introduced various climate-resilient technologies across India to address agricultural challenges posed by climate change which demonstrated the potential for scalability. In Anantapuramu, Andhra Pradesh, the promotion of farm ponds and drip irrigation has sustained groundnut productivity during droughts, and this approach has been effectively replicated in other drought-prone regions. The Integrated Farming System in Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu, encouraged crop diversification, livestock integration, and agroforestry to reduce dependence on rainfall while diversifying farmers’ income; this model has been widely adopted in rainfed areas. The project has also promoted conservation agriculture in Ludhiana, Punjab, utilizing zero tillage and crop residue management to improve soil moisture retention and reduce degradation, leading to widespread adoption in Punjab and Haryana.