 The latest technology is demonstrated to the farmers and extension workers. Step 2. The technology is tested and refined in the bio-physical and socio- economic conditions of the farmers adopting it. Step 3. The technical know-how of the extension personnel is upgraded. Step 4. Vocational courses are organized in order to instil a spirit of “Learning by doing”. The trainee may then raise institutional finance for self- employment. The extension-education activity is conducted through 261 Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs or Farm Science Centres) and 8 Trainers’ Training Centres located in various parts of the country. The KVKs are districtlevel institutions run by the SAUs, CRIs and select non- government organizations. Each year 2,500-3,000 farmers, farm women, rural youth and school dropouts are trained at the Krishi Vigyan Kendras in crop husbandry, horticulture, animal husbandry and dairying, fisheries and vocations leading to self-employment. The Trainers’ Training Centres (TTCs) are subject-specific training institutions for providing what’s new in dryland agriculture, horticulture, farm machinery, inland fisheries, marine fisheries, hill agriculture, dairying and home science. National Research Centre for Women in Agriculture, Bhubaneswar, Orissa, is devoted to women-specific research and extension-education programmes in the country. KVK Kosbad Hill The farmers plant rice by DAPOG METHOD during summer. They also earn more OTe i a | Non-traditional crop groundnut, performs beyond expectation. The area under the crop is expanding “AGRICULTURE IS NO MORE A WAY OF LIFE” Varieties get replaced in no time Onion ARKA BINDU is a fine example of replacing its counterparts even though it was a state-level release. The red-skinned ARKA BINDU developed exclusively for export in fresh form has been extensively grown in Karnataka ever since its performance was demon- strated to the farmers by the extension scientists of the ICAR. The onionis being regularly exported to Malaysia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, the Gulf countries and European markets since 1991. A conventionally grown crop too goes out... The water-guzzler sugarcane has been replaced in south Arcot, Tamil Nadu, with the less-water demanding hybrids of sunflower whose performance was demonstrated in 5 hectares of land in 1991-92. At present the hybrids KBSH 1, MSFH 8 and MSFH 17 cover 10,000 hectares. FRONT-LINE EXTENSION SERVICES OF THE ICAR REACH EVEN REMOTE AND INHOSPITABLE TERRAINS Red lateritic fallow lands in western Midnapore, West Bengal, are now blossoming orchards Rainfed orchards of mango, jackfruit, litchi, sapota, ber, cashew, sweet orange, lime and lemon, guava and pomegranate are spread over the once abandoned red lateritic fallow lands of western Midnapore. Seva Bharathi Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Kapgari, has assisted the farmers in adopting the Progeny Orchard and Nursery Development Programme. Each farmer has now an orchard in 2 hectares and nursery in one hectare of this fallow land.