 Pre-independence India experienced severe famines and stresses that continued after independence also. Immediately after independence, the agreements between India and Ford Foundation and Rockefeller foundation during 1951-1959 paved the way for many significant beginnings in Indian agriculture in subsequent decades (Table 1). These included community development programme (CDP), establishment of State Agricultural Universities (SAUs) and introduction of semi-dwarf Mexican wheat varieties. The hurtful memories of PL 480 after two successive severe droughts during 1964-66 still daunts many due to much undignified remarks of ‘ship to mouth’ to the country. The international collaborations and Indian Agriculture after Independence 360 cooperation caused a turned around the entire scenario and helped achieving the successes in Indian Agriculture. The beginning of the international collaborations and joint research was strengthened through the MoUs with foreign countries, international organizations and foreign universities and institutes. The process of research collaborations was hastened post 1973 with the establishment of Department of Agricultural Research & Education (DARE) as a separate Department under the Ministry of Agriculture in the Government of India. The DARE was designated as the nodal department for all the international collaborations for research. The collaborations with National Agencies and organizations including industries were also sharpened between ICAR and the institutions, universities, and organizations working in the field of agriculture and allied sector. Table 1. Milestones in international and national collaborations in agricultural research and development Year Milestone 1950 Establishment of US Educational Foundation in India to administer the Fulbright Program in India. 1951 Ford Foundation signed an agreement of US$ 1.2 million with GOI to train personnel for the CDP. Rockefeller Foundation committed to fund agricultural work in India and sent a team to India. 1952 U.S. Technical Cooperation Administration pledged $50 million to support the CDP and Rural Infrastructure in India. Rockefeller Foundation launched its collaborative India Agricultural Programme (IAP). 1956 Rockefeller Foundation granted US$ 1.38 million to help India develop the IARI and begin cereals improvement program. 1957 Douglas Ensminger of the Ford Foundation wrote a briefing paper to PM after his 3 months extensive travel of rural India. AICRP on Maize started in 1957 opening of the ICAR-SAUs partnership. 1959 Norman Borlaug visited India. Semi dwarf varieties of wheat came into the focus of researchers in India. Later, a Mexican wheat variety imported to India. 1964 Seed of two Mexican varieties (20 tons each) for demonstration at 1000 acres was requested from Dr. N.E. Borlaug. 1965 Demand for 200 tons of seed of Sonora 64 and 50 tons of Lerma Rajo 64A placed to Mexico for demonstration at 5000 farmers’ fields.