 The total vegetable production of the state in the year 2010-11 was 3,30,391 MTs from anl area of 43, 325 ha. Principal vegetable grown in the state are Cabbage, Potato, Beans, Sweet potato, Cauliflower, Brinjal, Chillies, Bean, Tomato, Ginger, Garlic, Radish, Onion, Naga Cucumber, and Leafy vegetables. Since production of vegetable does not meet the local demand, the state depends on outside and imports about 20-30% of state vegetable requirements. In Jhum area and interior villages, local mangoes, wild tomatoes, wild apples, amla, wild jack fruit, wild walnut, wild fig, wild chestnut, wild litchi etc. are produced which are consumed locally. Although, these fruits are resilient to climatic variability and having local importance are not included in the horticultural development programme resulting in gradual extinction. Apart from non-inclusion in horticultural development programmes, other reasons for their extinction 391 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 are agricultural practices adopted by farmers. In Jhum cultivation, burning of bio resources damages some of these local aromatic /medicinal plants. The agro climatic conditions in Nagaland are also conducive for producing flowers and thus, floriculture in a long run could be a potential diversification option for the Nagaland farmers. Considering its potential, the Horticulture Department has identified Lillium, Alstromeria, Anthurium, Carnation and Roses as potential crops for the export market. Already farmers have been producing these crops on commercial scale and started exporting. Nagaland produces high quality tea in the hills and foothill areas adjoining Assam state. About 9800 ha of land has been identified for the development of tea on a commercial scale. At present, about 750 ha. of land is under tea cultivation. Tea is produced mostly in Mokokchung district but Wokha and Mon are also potential areas for producing tea. The state also has the potential to produce medicinal plants which have essential oil bearing properties. The department has identified Citronella, Patchouli, and lemon grass, Geranium, Agar and Ginseng as medicinal and aromatic plantsfor commercial development. Elevation range and climate are two factors on which horticultural crop production system is based. Spices cultivation of a few major spice crops and protected cultivation especially in the districts of Dimapur and Kohima are other activities to focus on for development. Livestock Livestock is considered as subsidiary income for the rural households. In Nagaland along with agriculture, backyard pig and poultry rearing is integral to the livelihoods of farmers. Dairying is not generally practiced by farmers except in some small pockets of Dimapur district as Nagas are not milk consuming people.