 As per MoF, DoE, OM No.66 (29) PF-II/2016 dated 15/07/2016, Hon’ble Prime Minister has emphasized the need for improved financial management in implementation of Central Plan Schemes so as to facilitate Just-in-Time releases and monitor the usage of funds including information on its ultimate utilization. The Public Financial Management System (PFMS) is administered by the O/o controller General of Accounts in the Department of Expenditure which is an end-to-end solution for processing payments, tracking, monitoring, accounting, reconciliation and reporting. It provides the scheme managers a unified platform for tracking releases and monitoring their last mile utilization. 3. In order to abide by the directions to implement Just-in-time releases and monitor the end usage of funds, it has been decided by Ministry of Finance to universalise the use of PFMS to cover all transactions/payments under the Central Sector Schemes. The complete monitoring of these schemes require mandatory registration of all Implementing Agencies (IAs) on PFMS and mandatory use of Expenditure, Advances & Transfer (EAT) module of the PFMS by all IAs. The Implementation Plan covers the complete universe of Central Sector Schemes, which inter-alia requires the following steps to be taken by each Ministry/Department:- (i) All central schemes have to be mapped /configured and brought on the PFMS platform. (ii) All Implementing Agencies (IAs) receiving and utilizing funds needs to be mandatorily registered on PFMS. (iii) Usage of PFMS modules has to be made mandatory for all registered agencies for making payments, advances and transfers. (iv) All Departmental Agencies incurring expenditure in respect of Central Sector Schemes must register and compulsorily use the PFMS Modules. (v) All Grantee Institutions have to adopt PFMS modules for making Payments/Transfers /Advance from Grants received from the Central Govt. This will enable generation of on-line Utilization Certificates for claiming funds from the Central Government. (vi) Ministry has to take an action for integrating their respective systems/applications with the PFMS. Modules to implement the Mandate Modules developed/under developed by PFMS for stakeholders as per the Union Cabinet approval and mandate are as under: Fund Flow Monitoring [EAT Modules] (a) Agency registration (b) Expenditure management and fund utilization through PFMS EAT module (c) Accounting Module for registered agencies (d) Treasury Interface (e) PFMS-PRI fund flow and utilization interface (f) Mechanism for State Governments towards fund tracking for State schemes (g) Monitoring of Externally Aided Projects (EAP) II. Direct Benefit Transfer (DBT) modules (a) PAO to beneficiaries (b) Agency to beneficiaries (c) State treasuries to beneficiaries III. Interfaces for Banking (a) CBS (Core Banking Solutions) (b) India Post (c) RBI (Reserve Bank of India) (d) NABARD & Cooperative Banks Modules to Implement Enhanced mandate 1.