 Integrated farming system approach is not only a reliable way of obtaining fairly high productivity with considerable scope for resource recycling, but also the concept of ecological soundness leading to sustainable agriculture. Integrated farming system (IFS) is a novel approach to improve household food and nutritional security, income security, employment generation to the rural youths and livelihood security of the Haroti region of Rajasthan. Mr Ghanshyam Yadav is a 52 years old graduate farmer of Village Suhana, block Sultanpur, district Kota, Rajasthan, encasing various benefits of IFS since 2019–20. As a progressive farmer, he is happy to provide his family a nutritious food, regular income and employment opportunity for other rural farm women and youths. Earlier, he was practicing conventional crop-based farming system. He has 3.25 ha of farm land on which he used to grow soybean, urban, wheat, mustard, chickpea, etc. for livelihood. Due to lack of technical knowledge of modern agricultural technologies and practices, he couldn’t get better yield and economic return. The year 2019 was the turning point in his life. Agriculture University, Kota, Rajasthan adopted a village, namely Suhana under ‘Mira Gao Mera Gourav’ and he was selected as Indian Farming 7 April 2023 one of the beneficiaries. He visited Agricultural Research Station (Agriculture University, Kota), Ummedganj, Kota so many times for the guidance on new technologies related to agriculture for enhancing the productivity and profitability. In 2019, he got training on the aspects of integrated farming systems of crop production with high value crops, two-tier horticulture system, livestock and other supplementary/ complementary enterprises at this station under Rastriya Krishi Vikash Yojana project. After completion of training, he started various inter-related IFS enterprises, viz. high value crops (soybean, wheat, potato), intensive horticulture (fruits, vegetables, nursery raising), livestock (buffalo, cow) and other complementary/supplementary enterprises (vermicomposting, diversified green fodder) etc. (Table 1). Achievements • Through on-station trainings and demonstration of the IFS model at Agricultural Research Station, Kota, he got inspired to adopt an integrated farming system model in his own field. Gradually he has shifted from conventional crop-based farming to the integrated farming system. • He is also practicing various inter-linked enterprises, viz. recycling of crop residues, seed production, nursery raising, use of bio-pesticide, round the year green fodder production, pressurized irrigation to reduce the cost of production, enhancing input use efficiency and quality production as well. • By adopting the IFS model, presently he earns `5 lakh/ annum instead of `2 lakhs, and also generating more employment and regular income as compared to conventional practices on the same piece of land. Impact on other farmers • Mr.