 Enhancing food security and climate resilience of agriculture while reducing carbon emission or achieving carbon neutrality is therefore crucial for the SDGs, particularly No poverty (Goal 1), Zero hunger (Goal 2) and Climate action (Goal 3), is a big challenge for the agriculture sector. Therefore, this Indian Farming 49 June 2023 article assesses the carbon emission from agriculture, explore the various options and technologies for the reducing the carbon emission from the agriculture for the environmental security. Greenhouse gases emission from agriculture The agriculture sector is a main source of CH4 and N2O emission. Methane emission occur from livestock and submerged paddy fields. In paddy fields, CH4 is produced by microbial decomposition of soil organic carbon in anaerobic condition. Higher soil organic carbon and use of crop residues/organic manure in puddled transplanted paddy field can boost CH4 emission in submerged condition. Nitrous oxide emitted from soil through nitrification (microbial conversion of ammonium to nitrate under aerobic condition) and denitrification (reduction of nitrate to nitrogen gas under anaerobic condition) processes. Application of organic manures and chemical fertilizers can enhance the N2O emission from soils. About 70% of N2O emission from agriculture is because of the use of nitrogenous fertilizers in agricultural soils. Carbon dioxide emitted from soils as result of tillage, which triggers CO2 emission through biological decomposition of soil organic matter. Tillage breaks soil aggregates, enhances oxygen supply, and exposes soil organic matters, promoting its decomposition. Use of fossil fuels for various farm operations and on-farm burning of crop residues are other sources of CO2 emission. Agriculture contributes 10–12% of global GHG emissions. In India, the total GHGs emissions from all sector of Indian economy during 2016 was 2,822 Mt CO2 eq. which is about 6% of global GHG emission (MoEFCC 2021). Energy sector contributes the highest (75%) followed by agriculture (14%), industry (8%) and waste (3%) to total GHG emission of India. Indian agriculture contributes 7.6% of global agricultural emissions, and 0.8% of total global GHG emissions. First time a decrease of 2.25% during 2016 from Indian agriculture was registered between two consecutive years. In 2016, enteric fermentation (emission from livestock) contributes highest (54.6%) to India total GHG emission from agriculture, followed by fertilizers applied to agricultural soils (19.1%), rice cultivation (17.5%), manure management (6.7%) and on-farm burning of agricultural residues (2.2%). GHGs emission from Indian agriculture has doubled from 1970 to 2016, however, its relative contribution to total GHG of country has decreased from 33% in 1970 to 14% in 2016. It was because of higher increase in the GHG emissions from other sectors.