 (2002) 9 Root spreading for surface feeding in vegetable plantation In Lakadh, a small wooden structure called the tokhre is used for digging the soil facilitating the horizontal spread of roots in cabbage and other vegetables crops, thereby increasing production. This practice facilitates enhanced moisture/nutrient uptake along with removal of weeds. The wooden structure protects roots from mechanical damage which could result from an iron implement (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 162 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 10 Management of frost damage in mango by smoking In the lower areas of Himachal Pradesh,mango plants are mostly damaged by frost injury during winter months in December and January. Smoke layer protects the mango plants from frost injury (Lower areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 11 Preventing mango losses by covering the tree trunk with grass Mango farmers often suffer heavy losses when crop yields decline due to inflorescence and premature fruit dropping. If the trunks of the mango trees are covered with 'kodara' (a light cereal) straw before the monsoon, there will be good fruit setting in the next season (Bhiloda, Gujarat). Thakraji (1998) 12 Metal sheet in coconut to check climbing pests To avoid the climbing of squirrels and other herbivorous animals, metal sheets having a width of about two feet are fixed with the help of nails all around the trunk. These sheets are fixed at about 10 feet from ground level. This method is effective and is also economically feasible (Pondicherry). Pillai (2000-2001) 13 Prevention of fruit drop in mango The practice of filling mustard oil to a shallow depression on the upper surface of the thickest mango branch prevents obscisic layer formation and thereby fruit drop (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 14 Large cardamom- based agroforestry system Large cardamom is grown in association with ), a shade tree adjoining to small perennial streams (thoras) in order to spread water seepage through the soil during most part of the year. Also utis is fast growing tree,produces fuel wood, timber, fixes atmospheric N, enriches the soil by adding litter, serves as catch crop, attracts leaf feedding insect pests and hence successfully used in Sikkim over a century. The area reported under this system is about 14,000 ha and is expected to increase with the aid and asssisstance of Cardamom Board at Sikkim. Apart from utis, Cetis australis, Ficus spp are also used (Joginder Nagar of Mandi, Himachal Pradesh and Sikkim). Verma (1998) 15 Enhancing germination of coconut by keeping in water To advance germination of coconuts, farmers place them in the standing water of an open irrigation well. After only one month or so the sprouted nuts are transplanted to the field (Una, Himachal Pradesh). Narsinhbhai (1993) 163 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No.