 However, certain vegetation which grows naturally in the saline ecosystem has salt tolerance even for more than the salt concentration of seawater. This vegetation is called halophyte and has the potential to be grown as food, feed and industrial crops on soils where no field crops are grown. Prospects of using halophytes as fodder Halophytes survive an extreme saline environment by developing mechanisms to overcome water deficit in the root zone arising from low water potential, ion toxicity and nutrient imbalance, and form predominant vegetation in the saline ecosystem. One of the greatest potentials of halophytes probably rests in their utilization as forage and fodder, besides other uses as food, oilseeds and industrial crops. This is particularly relevant to arid and semi-arid regions where the halophytes are most abundant and Indian Farming 4 March 2023 the livestock population is high. The field studies carried out at ICAR-Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Bhuj, Gujarat established that halophytes that are palatable to the animal can successfully be grown as fodder in the extreme saline ecosystem. Mechanisms for salt tolerance in halophytes Halophytes are the plants that can survive in an extremely saline environment through various mechanisms that include ion compartmentalisation, salt exclusion or excretion, production of metabolites and genetic control. Higher concentration of ions, especially sodium and chloride are detrimental to the plant cell. Therefore, halophytes compact them in different plant parts. Firstly, they do not allow these ions to be absorbed by the roots. Then, if absorbed through selective translocation, these ions are stored in a differential amount in different parts, less in leaf and more in roots. Some halophytes often possess large vacuoles for storing these ions. For example, Suaeda maritima, a potential halophyte, occupies 77% of the mesophyll cells of vacuoles which makes it capable of accumulating a higher concentration of salt, as much as 500 mm. Although all of the halophytes exhibit better accumulation of salt, the level of total salt accumulation in the shoot is mostly species-specific, depending on different adaptive strategies. Among several special characteristics related to the physiological adaptation of halophytes, salt excretion is one of the most efficient mechanisms that prevent excessive concentrations of salts from building up in photosynthetic tissues. Some of the halophytes possess multicellular salt glands and salt hairs; those are common in many halophytes such as Cressa and Suaeda species. For osmotic adjustment, the accumulation of inorganic salts and compatible solutes are often regarded as the basic strategy for the protection and survival of halophytes under salt stress. Inorganic salts include chloride and sulphate of sodium, potassium and magnesium.