 Data presented in Figs 1 to 3 also show that the melting of ice, by sprinkling of ash, is independent of the amount of ash sprinkled. Almost same time was recorded for the complete melting of ice with 5, 10 and 15 g ash respectively, meaning that only small amount of ash, which should be enough to cover the surface of ice, can help in faster melting. During the interaction with local people of Lahaul-Spiti valley, it was also known that on non-availability of ash or if the quantity of ash is not enough to cover the entire snow-fields, the local people also use soil powder for faster melting of ice. The results with 5 g and 10 g soil powder ( Figs 4 and 5 ) respectively show that melting of ice is quite faster with soil powder as compared with natural melting. The time taken for complete melting of ice was 12 min. less with 5 g soil, whereas it was 18 min. less with 10 g Fig. 4. Variation of melting of ice with time for 5 g soil CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS  soil powder in comparison with natural melting. It indicates that the time taken for complete melting of ice (1.5 kg) is lesser with soil powder as compared to natural melting. Thus the presence of small amounts of soluble minerals or particles as in fine soil lower the melting point of ice, while results in faster melting. Hence both ash as well as soil powder can be used for faster melting of ice. Its a result the fields covered with snow can be made available for early sowing by the spray of ash as well as soil powder. As the time taken for melting of ice with ash and soil powder was different, it was also thought appropriate to compare the results of melting of ice with ash and soil powder. The melting of ice was carried out with 5 g, 10 g and 15 g of ash as well as soil powder. The data are shown in Figs 6, 7 and 8, respectively. The melting of ice with ash was faster by 20– 25 min. per 1.5 kg ice taken in each tray. The melting of ice with ash took lesser time in comparison to soil powder. But if the results of 5 g, 10 g and 15 g ash as well soil powder are compared, there is no difference in the time taken for melting. In other words, it supports the previous data that the melting of ice is independent of the amount of ash or soil powder used for melting purposes. Only small amount of Fig. 6. Variation of melting of ice with time for 5 g ash and 5g soil Fig. 7. Variation of melting of ice with time for 10 g ash and 10 g soil Fig. 8. Variation of melting of ice with time for 15 g ash and 15 g soil Fig. 5. Variation of melting of ice with time for 10 g ash CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS either ash or soil powder, which can cover the entire surface of snow, will be sufficient. CONCLUSION The results obtained show that melting can be hastened by sprinkling ash as well as soil powder. The melting is relatively faster with ash than with soil powder. Presence of soluble materials in ash and soil lower the melting point, due to which the snow melting becomes faster.