 The collaborations with CGIAR centres enabled exchange of over 2 lakhs of germplasm for explorative and futuristic agricultural research (Fig. 4). In addition, as high as over 5 lakh samples are imported from the CGIAR nurseries for testing at different locations in India. The ICAR-CGIAR collaboration helped capacity development of about 39682 researchers and extension personnel and development of 969 crop varieties through the use of their germplasm or bred directly for India. Fig. 4. Germplasm exchanged with the CGIAR centers 4. Multilateral and regional collaboration 4.1. South Asia Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) ICAR/DARE is a permanent member of the Governing body of the SAARC’s Agriculture Centre (SAC). Our cooperation in extending the expertise and capabilities has helped training of over 100 agricultural professionals and scientists of SAARC Member States so far. During last decade, training in the areas of soil health, climate smart agriculture, salt affected soil reclamation, agro-forestry, aquaculture, fish processing quality, herd health management of dairy buffalo, animal reproductive biotechnology and field epidemiology in veterinary science conducted. Indian Scientists have given their services at different capacities in R&D and management of SAC. During 2018-19, PhD scholarship in Agricultural Biotechnology has been instituted by the SAC to promote cooperation in agricultural education. IARI enrolled one student in the PhD program. Two more SAARC PhD Scholarship, one each in Animal Science at ICAR- IVRI and Fisheries at ICAR-CIFA were approved in 2020-21. ICAR has been conferred a certificate of appreciation on 20th August, 2018 in recognition of its commendable contribution in the agricultural growth in the SAARC region. ICAR experts provide their inputs in a number of sectoral and theme-based consultation held under the SAC including the SARC Agriculture Vision for 2030. 371 International and National Collaborations 4.2. Bay of Bengal Initiative for Multi-Sectoral Technical and Economic Cooperation (BIMSTEC) Agriculture is one of the 14 areas adopted in charter of the BIMSTEC in 2007, Republic of Myanmar being the lead country for agriculture. Amongst the significant achievements in agriculture so far under BIMSTEC are one meeting of agriculture ministers on 12th July 2019, senior officers meeting on 11 July, 2019, 8 agricultural experts’ meetings, workshops on good agricultural practices (GAP) and agricultural trade and investment have been held. In the 4th Expert Group on Agricultural Cooperation meeting held on 6-7 April, 2015 in Kathmandu, Nepal, India floated the concept notes on “South-South East Asian Diagnosis Network for Ensuring Bio-security and Bio-safety” covering the area of crop/ animal/fisheries, and “Human Resources Development in Agriculture”.