 From the stimulated field experiments, it was observed that water front advance was more for all the cycle times and cycle ratios in both 1.5 and 2 lps stream sizes, when compared to continuous flow irrigation. While comparing the surge effect among the stream sizes, it was found that the combination of 1.5 lps stream size, 15 min. cycle time and 0.5 cycle ratio was better in view of more distribution uniformity co-efficient (92.3%), better water front advance and average moisture content at head, middle and tail of furrow reaching almost field capacity (28-31%) in irrigated furrows. For this combination, an increase of 28.33% and 7% in water front advance and distribution uniformity co-efficient, respectively, were observed over the continuous furrow irrigation. Gabion Structures A total of 9 gabion structures were constructed, installed and evaluated in 2 micro-watersheds of respectively, 169 and 193 ha area, in Pipilyahana and Umariya AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 151 ● An automated testing facility for pumps and drippers designed and installed at CIAE, Bhopal ● Field demonstrations of self-propelled rice transplanter, reaper harvester and zero-till drill conducted in Bihar Arround 800 farmers from 65 villages and 100 Government officials of Bihar participated in the rice transplanter demonstration conducted at 3 locations Khurd near Indore city, where extensive gullies had formed. In one location in Pipliyahana, the gabions were of uniform size: 1×1×1m and the remaining 8 were of varying sizes. Prior to the constructions of these structures, there was no water storage as the run-off was flowing unhindered carrying silt with it and gradually deteriorating the gully. After construction, in one of the structures where detailed monitoring was done, the water storage capacity of about 400 m was achieved. An economic evaluation of the water harvesting structure equipped with gabions for sedimentation control at the Pipilyahana micro-watershed revealed an average benefit : cost ratio of 1.53 when the harvested water was used for irrigation. For identical gullies, the cost of conventional masonary gully controls structure was Rs 2,00,000 and for the gabion structure, it was Rs 40,000. Sub-surface Drainage Sub-surface drainage in the acid sulphate soils in the Kuttanad region of Kerala were evaluated in terms of its impact on the important soil chemical properties and the crop yield and a comparison was made with the conventional surface drainage system adopted by the local rice-growing farmers. The sub-surface drainage always resulted in a better soil chemical environment in terms of several soil chemical parameters and also crop yield. The sub-surface drainage effluent had much higher concentration on dissolved salts and onions as compared to the surface drainage water.