 In field experiments, co- inoculation of Rhizobium and antagonistic bacteria (AB 3) along with Azospirillum/ Azotobacter enhanced the nodulation and grain yields in blackgram/greengram. About 30-50 kg/ha more grain yield was obtained with dual or trio-inoculation. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 73 study, the hydraulic conductivity (K) and specific storage of the aquifer was reduced with increase in concentration of clay in the water. Decrease in K was 2.24% for 60 hr of recharge with 200 ppm of clay. Performance Evaluation of Hydraulic Ram in Hilly Areas A survey of 375 hydrams was conducted in Kumaun division of Uttaranchal that showed only 269 are in working condition, 97 out of order, and 9 completely abandoned as they have failed and cannot be made operative. Performance evaluation of ten selected hydrams was undertaken and break-down and operational problems were identified. The effect of introduction of hydram irrigation on cropping pattern showed that prevalent rainfed maize and pulses were replaced by rice and vegetables in many commands. Development of Ground Water Simulation Model for Punjab Simulation model (based on PLASM model) for ground water behaviour in different parts of Punjab was taken up and data related to the hydraulic properties of the aquifers, hydraulic conductivity, specific yield and aquifer bottom elevation maps have been prepared. The calibration of the model is in progress. Conjunctive Use in Bargi Command An optimum water allocation plan has been devised for the cropped area of 1947 ha in the command of Bargi Irrigation Project in Jabalpur. The proposed conjuctive use is expected to increase the benefit cost ratio to 1.90 from 1.59 for the existing irrigation system. It has been observed that water table is continuously decreasing in the command. Ground Water Modeling for Conjunctive Use A computer program for module related to estimation of soil moisture in the root zone, actual ET, return flow to the ground water due to irrigation, crop yield and rise in groundwater has been prepared for the command of Mula and Musalwadi Irrigation Project. Thematic/derived maps of the Mula command have been prepared using the GIS and remote sensing data. Open Well Hydraulics The study was undertaken at Pantnagar to develop the design criteria for the radial strainers by using the Electrolyte Tank model. Relationship between steady flow rate of different well and aquifer parameters of a radial collector well for one particular set of boundary conditions were developed. An analytical solution for unsteady flow to steady discharging non-penetrating well of finite diameter with hemispherical bottom(cavity well) in a leaky artesian aquifer of finite thickness was obtained. The flow system was analysed in three dimensions using the solution. Methodology(in the form of curve fitting technique) for determining aquifer parameters using the solution had been devised and demonstrated with an example.