 It also can perform automated irrigation processes to save water consumption and improve WUE. Lakshmi et al. [43] found a 46% decrease in water consumption and higher crop yield using an SIS compared to a conventional watering system. Laphatphakkhanut et al. [44] used an IoT-based SIS and found water usages were decreased by 40.29% (alternating wet and dry) and 29.22% (basin irrigation) compared to the traditional irrigation method. Barkunan et al. [45] reported a 41.5% Agriculture 2024, 14, 1141 9 of 40 (conventional flood) and 13% (drip irrigation) reduction in water usage for paddy cultivation using an automated drip irrigation system. Mason et al. [46] simulated (using CROPWAT 8.0 version software to arrange different field scenarios) how an SIS could manage and shrink water consumption without affecting tomato plant production. The simulated results showed that the SIS reduces water use by 59% on average without affecting the yield of tomato plants. Gonz’alez-Briones et al. [47] reported a significant water reduction (reducing water consumption by 15.06%) compared to traditional automotive irrigation to optimize irrigation in a potato crop. However, previous studies on proposing smart irrigation water-saving systems are presented in Table 1. In summary, precision irrigation water-saving systems represent a sustainable approach to water management in the face of growing water scarcity and changing climatic conditions. PISs can include and integrate all of the challenges and improvements to deliver new and improved solutions and services to all of the stakeholders. Therefore, traditional irrigation water application and management practices must be improved to meet the increasing demands. The farmers must adopt the latest irrigation water application and management advancements to serve this growing demand. The primary purpose of using precision irrigation water-saving technologies in agriculture is to improve water conservation using advanced tools such as soil moisture sensors, irrigation controllers, and real-time climate data collecting and analyzing tools. This technology offers several advantages in smart irrigation water saving: (1) SISs can provide real-time and nonstop observation of several field parameters (climate, soil, water, and plant). They let farmers be updated about field situations and make real-time decisions about IS, nutrient, and pest management applications. (2) SISs can eliminate the requirement for the manual data collection of several variables. They can help reduce the labor engaged in field data collection, data collection errors, and the entire operational efficiency of the system. (3) SISs can save several input costs by decreasing water consumption, significantly saving water utility bills. (4) SISs can help prevent over- or under-watering and allow plants to get the desired water and nutrients as they need them. (5) SISs are an environmentally friendly technology.