 Genotypes of each individual animal were recorded. At the NDRI, Karnal, molecular genetic characterization was carried out involving Krishnavalley, Ongole, Amritmahal, Hallikar, Khillari and Malanad Gidda. Buffalo: At the NDRI, Karnal, a 65-kDa buffalo placental protein suppressed proliferation of lipopolysaccharide-stimulated-buffalo lymphocyte in vitro indicating suppression of B-cells. At the NBAGR, Karnal, out of the 59 polymorphic microsatellite markers that showed polymorphism in buffaloes, number of alleles and allelic range for 40 markers were determined. Genetic characterization of Murrah breed was carried out using selected 25 polymorphic markers for which the number of alleles, allelic size range and heterozygosity were determined. ● Bovine microsatellite sequences showed extensive conservation in bubaline genome. A battery of microsatellite markers was identified to study genetic variability in buffalo populations. ● Allele numbers, size ranges and heterozygosity were documented for 40 polymorphic microsatellite markers that were analysed in buffalo panel of 3 breeds. ● Selected 25 polymorphic microsatellite markers are being analysed in buffalo breeds for genetic characterization. ● Non-radioactive based DNA fingerprinting technique using oligo probes was standardized for genetic diversity study in farm animals. ● At the CIRB, Hisar, DNA was isolated from blood of 30 buffaloes. The quality and quantity of the isolated DNA were evaluated. The establishment of polymorphism through RAPD primers was initiated. Further work is in progress. IMMUNOGENETIC STUDIES IN GOATS At the Central Institute for Research on Goats (CIRG), Makhdoom, serum lysozyme was established as a marker for studying disease resistance parameter in goats. Further, milk casein polymorphism was studied in Jamunapari, Barbari, Marwari, Jakhrana and Sirohi goats and extensive polymorphism was observed in a-S1 casein locus. The genotypic frequencies of a S1-Cn in Jamunapari, Barbari, Marwari, Sirohi and Jakhrana goats were 0.96, 0.91, 0.93, 0.81 and 0.90, respectively. The distribution of frequency of aS1-Cn was higher in all the breeds except Sirohi. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 90 ● At the IVRI, Izatnagar, for specific identification of breeds, random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis technique was applied that identified 3 potentially informative primers (OPA 14, BG 27, BG 28) on the genome of Murrah buffaloes and 2 primers (OPA 4, BG 15) on Bhadawari buffaloes. Sheep and goat: Microsatellite primer pairs (7) were tested for amplification and assessment of polymorphism in Garole, Nali and Chokla sheep. Microsatellite primers (14) were used to detect the distribution of alleles and to calculate allelic frequencies for each loci in 35 DNA samples of Garole sheep. These markers generated 104 alleles. Overall number of alleles ranged from 5 to 11 with a mean of 7.42/ microsatellite marker. The most polymorphic marker was OarHH 47 with 11 alleles.