 Damage symptoms of various insect pests Name of pests Symptoms of damages Litchi fruit and shoot borer ( C o n o p o m o r p h a sinensis Bradley) y It is one of the major threats to litchi growers, causing severe losses to fruit as well as young shoots, to the tune of 24-48% and 7-70%, respectively. y The adults lay eggs on fruit surface at early stage of fruit (pea size) and newly emerged larvae bore in to soft skin and seed. Whereas at colour break stage, the egg laying is generally done on top of fruits near pedicel. y The newly emerged larvae start boring in to the fruits and reach at pulp-seed junction for feeding. y The infested fruits can be identified by black spot near pedicel with small fruit size. y Infested fruits generally drop down before maturity. y In this way, larvae of this borer cause direct damage to litchi fruits. y During monsoon season, indirect damage causes by larvae through making mines in young leaves and shoots, resulting poor flowering and fruit setting in next season. B a r k e a t i n g caterpillars (Indarbela tetraonis Moore and Indarbela quadrinotata Walker) y This polyphagous species hosts on wide range of plants including longan, rambutan, mango, mulberry aonla, ber, citrus, phalsa, guava, jack-fruit, jamun, loquat, pomegranate and rose attack on litchi trees. y Larvae that hatch out initially feed on the bark and subsequently bore into the trunk. y The fully-grown caterpillars are with dark brown head and dirty brown body. y The tunnel entry remains closed with a frass covering which is drawn out into a sleeve through which the larva moves. y Due to destroying of xylem tissues, results in poor growth and fruiting of the tree. Caterpillars remain within the tunnel inside the stem during day, come out in night and feed upon the bark. y Older and uncared trees are more affected by the pest. Infestation may be noticed by the presence of ribbons of wood chips, frass and silken thread over the bark surface. y Fruiting capacity of tree is adversely affected by the attack of this pest. y Attack of pest weakens the stem, resulting in drying of the branches and finally tree may die itself. Leaf roller (Dudua aprobola. Meyrick) y This is also a very serious pest of litchi, causing severe damage to litchi foliage. y The symptoms of leaf damage by the larvae are manifested through rolling of tender leaves and feeding inside. y As a result of larval damage, the infested twigs distort and wither. Leaf damage goes up to 70%. y Litchi trees that have been attacked by this pest results in very poor flowering in subsequent season. y Thus, the crop yield gets reduced considerably. It may attack flowers also. L i t c h i l o o p e r (Perixera illepidaria Guenée) y This pest attack on tender leaves in mass and defoliate the new shoots. y In severe attack, it completely defoliates the newly emerged flush. Besides litchi, so many host plants viz., longan, rambutan, mango, and castor have been reported for this pest.