 The Council through its Agricultural Education Division helps maintain quality assurance across Agricultural Universities (AUs), through rigorous accreditation and ranking process. The scheme also enabled these institutions in building excellence in specific strategic areas in education and research as well as capacity building through Niche Area of Excellence (NAE), promoting holistic higher agricultural education by blending knowledge and skill through Experiential Learning Models thereby promoting entrepreneurial capabilities of students. The National Agricultural Education and Research System (NARES) is one of the largest institutions in the world. The effective functioning of this system in close association with education and extension has contributed towards the rapid growth of agriculture in the country. The present system comprises essentially of two main streams, viz. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) at the National level and agricultural universities at the state level, besides other organizations involved in agriculture and allied activities. Capability of people to be effective and productive economic agents, i.e. human capital, is the most important component for rapid development in agriculture and allied sciences. The education and skills of agricultural people are significant factors in enhancing every aspect of agricultural performance. Governance and quality assurance Accreditation of Agricultural Universities: To address the concerns of quality higher agricultural education, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) was established to advise the Council in evolving norms and standards for accreditation of institutions and programmes of agricultural education. Online portal for submitting documents for accreditation was developed (accreditation.icar.gov.in). The NAEAB has implemented online mode and uploading LoI/IEA/Statement of Compliance, and its preliminary examination is now online through portal. Currently, 62 Agricultural Universities and 19 private agricultural colleges are accredited. Ranking of Agricultural Universities: The ranking of Agricultural Universities was initiated by ICAR to drive the universities towards improving quality standards and enhance their visibility. The ranking status allows the students to make informed choices for university placement, and further, helps the universities, to self- assess themselves on the quality and enhance their abilities. The emphasis on parameters such as teaching resources and outcome, faculty profile, students’ performance, research productivity, research impact, research excellence, extension activities, outreach programmes, revenue generation and peer recognition of the faculty, students and staff of the university, etc., are considered while evaluating the agricultural universities.