 10 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK Keeping in view the administrative and financial aspects as per the proposed guidelines, the Committee recommends that the post of Assistant in KVK may be upgraded to that of Assistant Administrative Officer and one new post of Lower Division Clerk-cum-Store Keeper be created. In order to support the scientists in data collection, one post of Technician (T-I-Field/Farm) is also recommended. Thus, the Committee recommends that the total staff strength for each KVK should be 22 as against 16 at present. (d) Designation of KVK staff The increased role, activities and objectives necessitate senior-level functionary as Head of KVK. The Committee therefore, recommends that the Head of KVK be designated as ‘Chief Scientist- cum-Head’ in the cadre of Principal Scientist/Professor (PB-4, ` 37400-67000 with GP of ` 10000). Further, all SMSs in ICAR/SAUs/CAUs/NGOs/State Governments PSU/OEI/KVKs should henceforth be redesignated uniformly as Scientist/Assistant Professor (PB-3, ` 15600-39100 with GP ` 6000) to ensure much needed parity across teaching, research and extension positions. (e) KVK staff in ICAR institutes The SMSs who are in the technical cadre at present in the KVKs run by ICAR Institutes should henceforth be redeployed/re-designated as Scientists only and the positions must be adjusted through cadre review at the concerned ICAR institute level or through redeployment of scientific positions at the overall ICAR level. (f) New MoU The Committee is of the view that for implementing new guidelines and have additional support for staff, contingency and infrastructure, all KVKs established so far will have to sign a new MoU as given in the guidelines. Accordingly, for implementing the suggested new management guidelines, all KVKs be asked to submit new MoU while receiving sanction from ICAR under the XII Plan. (g) Management guidelines for KVK system The Committee also gone into greater details in view of the ToR assigned as well as keeping in view the KVK momentum and recommended that KVK management guidelines should have two parts as given below: ●The first part should provide a road map for the KVK system which should indicate theoretical frame work relating to prelude about the future Indian agriculture, genesis and growth of KVK system in the country, vision, mission and mandate, design, functional structure and strategies and various terminologies so as to understand the KVK system and its role in changing scenario of agriculture. ●The second part should emphasize on the practical framework for the implementation of KVK system. This part should serve as guideline for administration, finance, coordination, implementation and monitoring, convergence and linkage, scientific and technical aspects, and capacity development for effective implementation of KVK system. 11 Recommendations 4.1 Mandate and domain of activities 4.1.