 Concerted effort is needed to expand the area under coconut and improve the productivity of existing gardens. The available technologies can bring the coconut sector in Northeast to higher level if adopted effectively. For further interaction, please write to: 1Director, 2Principal Scientist, 3Head, Division of Crop Production, 4Senior Scientist, ICAR-Central plantation Crops Research Institute Kasaragod – 671124, Kerala Email: hebbar.kb@icar.gov.in Indian Horticulture 92 Technology Management of Oil Palm in Northeastern Region Northeastern region of India is bestowed with a unique topographic and climatic composition which is broadly different from rest of India. This requires a special attention and hand holding to bring the region back to growth trajectory which it enjoyed a few decades back. Majority of the population in this region are dependent on Agriculture for their livelihood and the fruits of real green revolution are yet to benefit these areas. On the other side, the gap between demand and production of edible oils of the country has never shown a trend of narrowing down, during recent times. I N vision 2020 of The North Eastern Council, widespread promotion of horticulture and floriculture is recommended for the development of Northeastern region (NER). Complementing to it, the committee on “Reassessment of potential areas for oil palm cultivation in India and revision of targets upwards” has identified suitable areas for cultivation of oil palm in NE region. Accordingly, Department of Agriculture and Farmers’ welfare, Government of India has fixed the state-wise targets for NE region to promote the crop for overall development of the region. A GIS based suitability assessment was made with the available spatial information on the critical parameters of oil palm cultivation viz., rainfall quantum and distribution, minimum temperature, length of dry period, slope of the terrain and soil depth. All the states of NE region except Sikkim indicated suitability for oil palm cultivation especially under moderately and marginally suitable classes which need an additional management package for achieving better productivity. Oil Palm development programme in the NER started with Mizoram taking the lead during 2006 followed by Nagaland, Arunachal Pradesh, Assam and Tripura. Presently an area of 43,507 ha has been realized in the above-mentioned States. Oil palm responds very well to management and among all the practices recommended, water and nutrient management are the most important ones. For successful cultivation of oil palm in NE region, the growers need to follow important best management practices given below: Site selection Oil palm is a typical humid tropical crop but it has been adapted to a wide range of climates ranging from humid tropics to humid sub tropics.