 4th 16th May, 2017 06 Agenda items discussed and major decisions taken in the meetings of the Finance Committee included the following: Third Meeting • Approval of Annual Accounts for the year 2015-16 for mandatory audit, • Appraisal of Audit Report on the Accounts of RLBCAU, Jhansi for the financial year 2014-15 & recommendation to lay the Audited Accounts before the Parliament, • Approval of preliminary estimates for various pre-fab and other structures to be constructed at RLBCAU, Jhansi & Datia, • Approval of delegation of financial powers to the University Registrar, • Appraisal about revised outcome budget 2016-17 to 2019-20 • Appraisal about provisions of EFC during XII plan. Fourth Meeting • Approval of Annual Accounts for the year 2016-17 for mandatory audit. • Appraisal of allocations Communicated under Budget Estimates for the year 2017- 18 to 2019-20 and headwise allocations proposed in EFC 2017-18 to 2019-20. 4. Academic Activities The University initiated two new undergraduate courses leading to B.Sc (Hons) 5 Annual Report 2016-17 the academic disciplines, financial aid and scholarships, student welfare, code of conduct, importance of sports etc was given by Dr Mukesh Srivastava, Registrar, Dr. Devi Singh, Consultant and Anchor Dr. Meenakshi Arya. Vice-chancellor Dr. Arvind Kumar welcomed the students to the University fraternity and advised them to understand the significance of education in general and higher agricultural education in particular, in the global and Indian contexts. He explained the linkages between agricultural education and economic and socio- cultural development in the country, where agriculture supports livelihood of about half the population. He called upon the students to acquire and improve basic skills at the College/ University level and try to remain aware of the developments in his/her specific area of learning and to utilize on campus opportunities for development of personality, initiative and creativity. Subsequently, a cultural program was organized that was followed by dinner. 5. Faculty In the light of Section 6 (x, xi) of the University Act, vesting the University with power to create teaching, research, extension education, administrative, ministerial and other posts and to make appointments thereto, the Finance Committee and Board of Management of the University approved the creation of 254 teaching and 234 non- teaching posts for the head quarters and four constituent colleges (College of Agriculture; College of Horticulture & Forestry; College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, and College of Fisheries). The University has proposed faculty following the minimum standards for UG/PG education in different branches of agriculture sciences, except veterinary sciences, as per the norms prescribed by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. The Veterinary education shall be regulated by Horticulture and B.Sc.(Hons) Forestry and continued its B.Sc.