 Description (Background) - Materials and methods The dataset that consists of paddy leaf images would be trained using neural network, to detect leaf diseases specific to rice crop. The images captured through image sensing units from the farm land could be transferred to cloud server for testing. In this use case, a total of 650 images were captured and labelled for applying to AI model. Out of the available data set, 555 images contained pictures of paddy leaves with disease. (Refer Appendix-1) - Country specifics Eastern India's main cereal crop and staple diet is rice, and for the majority of farmers, it is their only source of income. The majority of India's rural areas rely heavily on agriculture. The methods used to cultivate rice depend heavily on the factors that affect crop growth, such as the type of soil, the availability of water, and the monsoon season. Ecosystems that need to be preserved and improved receive benefits from rice growing that are both concrete and intangible. India is the only country in the world with such a variety of rice ecosystems. India has developed many types of ecosystems due to the country's extensive farming. Wet, dry, Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report 9.2. Use cases: loT based Farmland Surveillance System with Disease Detection in Paddy Crops Source: 1. Dr. Vydeki D, VIT Chennai, India 2. Dr. Jagannath M, VIT Chennai, India 3. Dr. S Ramesh, School of Engineering, SIMTS Chennai, India Part A 1. Introduction The survival of human beings is dependent on the proper productivity of agriculture. The paddy plant is considered as a major planting crop in improving the economical level of our country. It is a known fact that a number of diseases could reduce the yield level of the paddy crop. The main culprits behind this disease's prevalence on the paddy crop include bacteria, fungus, viruses, and some dangerous insects. The illnesses that damage rice crops in their early stages have an impact on the entire stage of crop cultivation. Farmers have been performing manual disease detection since the beginning of agriculture. To manually identify crop diseases, naked eye inspection is frequently used. This outdated method typically results in mistakes and requires a great deal of effort to classify the diseases. One of the newer methods for identifying and categorising the various types of diseases is image processing, which solves the problems with manual disease identification. The identification and classification of plant illnesses, the differentiation of specific weeds, and disease forecasting are only a few of the problems that image processing technique addresses in crop management. The objective of the use case is to provide an alternative solution to naked-eye observation of disease in paddy crops. This use case employs an image processing technique for identifying and classifying the different types of diseases using machine learning. 2.