 The fruitlets are dark green in colour and their shape is much more curved than the normal shape of a developing fruit. This shape resembles that of unfertilized fruits which drop out very quickly after turning yellow. The dark green colour after attaining the size of marble, further growth ceases and thus remains in the panicle for a considerable period. The retention of these fruitlets for a longer period gives a general impression that there will be good set. However, these fruitlets do not grow further. Lack of pollination and fertilization owing to aberrant weather conditions, heavy spray of pesticides, which kills the pollinators resulted failure of pollination and fertilization of the fruit, which have been ascribed as the reasons for the occurrence of clustering. Application of NAA (300 ppm) in the month of November on Dashehari reduced the clustered panicles. Lower concentrations of NAA (100-200 ppm) also reduced the clustered panicles. Soft nose A breakdown of the flesh on the ventral side and towards the apex in mango fruits, even when on the tree prior to harvest, has been termed ‘Soft Nose’. In Malaysia, the condition known as ‘Yeasty fruit rot’ or ‘Insidious fruit rot’ is probably identical with soft nose. Similar disorder was also noticed in Dashehari. Such physiological breakdown in Kent and Haden mangoes described as soft Fruit drop Fruit cracking Clustering Cross section of clustered fruit July–August 2021 49 nose, has been engaging the attention of commerce and research workers. Investigation revealed that the disorder is of physiological nature but cure is not known. Jelly seed Jelly seed is characterised by loosening of pulp tissues and jelly formation around the stone during the advance stage of maturity of the fruit. This malady renders the fruit unfit for consumption, reducing nutritional level and consumer acceptance which has become a bottleneck in export and expansion of mango industry. Small fruit and fruit harvested when ripe, as opposed to unripe but mature, appear more prone to breakdown. Nutrient imbalance, particularly the deficiency of calcium may be an important factor but evidence is lacking to enable any firm conclusion. In India it is restricted to cultivar Dashehari, however, cvs. Chausa and Amrapali were also Soft nose affected fruits observed to develop jelly seed when they were harvested in late season. Sometimes fibrous type of mango like polyembryonic cultivar Turpentine has never exhibited such symptoms. As a method of control, preharvest spray of dihydrated calcium was found effective to reduce the occurrence of jelly seed formation. Jelly seed affected (left) and normal fruit (right) Spongy tissue Alphonso mango, which is the main export cultivar of India, suffers from a serious malady known as spongy tissue. In this disorder the external symptoms are not visible at harvesting, but when cut in half, the flesh is pale yellow in colour, soft or spongy with or without air cavity and has an off flavour.