 https://iaeme.com/Home/journal/IJAIRD 165 editor@iaeme.com Committee (APMC) mandis to create a unified national market for agricultural commodities. ➢ mKisan is a portal developed and maintained by the Ministry of Agriculture which provides information, services and advisories, preferences related to agricultural practices, and locations to cultivators via SMS in their local language. ➢ Kisan Suvidha application is an initiative of the National Informatics Centre (NIC), this app provides services and information relevant to farmers on a single platform, including various schemes and services of Central and state governments. ➢ Soil Health Card portal is a web and smartphone-based application, designed and developed by the NIC, Ministry of Information and Technology (MeitY), it provides information on the nutrient status of various soils along with fertiliser dosage application in local units in 22 different languages and five dialects. ➢ Kisan Rath is a mobile-based app developed by NIC, MeitY, it enables farmers/traders to hire transporters for transporting agri- produce. Kisan Rath is integrated with eNAM. ➢ Farm Machinery Solutions (FARMS) is a mobile app for connecting farmers and custom hiring centres (CHC) owners with facilities such as renting agricultural machinery, booking custom hiring services, and selling and purchasing second-hand farm machinery and equipment. ➢ KisanMitr This is a national digital platform for farmers launched by the office of the Principal Scientific Advisor for providing insights and recommendations to farmers based on data from Government departments. Agri Tech Startups The nation's overall funding growth has increased year on year by 87%, which is in line with the rise in the deal value from USD 133 million in 2018 to USD 249 million in 2019. The Agri- Tech industry has grown at an unprecedented rate in recent years, and venture capital (VC) investors' interest has increased as well. The quantity of upstream (pre-harvest) transactions in the Agri-Food Tech industry exceeded the quantity of downstream (post-harvest) transactions in 2021. Increased internet connectivity, a growing number of people owning smartphones, business-to-farmer (B2F) Agri-input markets, rural FinTech companies, and farm-to-fork consumer brands are all responsible for this momentum. The majority of Agri-Tech models that are now in use in India are supply-chain focused, and it is generally easier for entrepreneurs and venture capitalists to use such models.(PwC, 2022) Following are some of the Agri- tech startups: ➢ Intello Labs is an Indian startup aiming to solve the problem of food wastage through the use of AI, ML, and computer vision. By digitalizing the quality assessment of fresh fruits and vegetables, it has made the process objective, efficient and less wasteful. ➢ Ninjacart is a Bangalore based B2B Agri-tech platform that connects farmers with retailers, supermarkets, and restaurants.