 Technology Dissemination After visualizing the success of potato cultivation at the Experimental Farm of ICAR-Central Institute for Arid Horticulture, Bikaner (Rajasthan); systematic efforts were made to disseminate the technology in farmer’s field by involving a multidisciplinary team of scientists. Firstly, farmers of the locality were invited to see the crop performance at the Experimental Field of this institute. Thereafter, a series of farmers’ trainings were conducted both in-campus and off-campus about potato cultivation practices. Exhibitions were also organized to display potato tubers of different varieties. Initially, seed tubers were also arranged and distributed to the farmers for field demonstrations. Several on-farm visits were made by the multidisciplinary team of scientists. With the efforts of ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner, first a cluster of farmers in Khichiya village of Bikaner have started potato cultivation on about 10 acres of land. Now, in arid region of Rajasthan, more than 1,041 ha area is covered under potato cultivation with 13,897 tonnes of production, particularly in canal command areas, where ground water irrigation facilities are available. For further interaction, please contact: 1Pr o f. , Pr i n c i p a l S c i e n t i s t ( H o r t . ) , I C A R- C I S H, Lucknow; 2Principal Scientist (Soil Science), ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner and 3Vice Chancellor, UBKV, West Bengal. *Corresponding author: pl.saroj@icar.gov.in Indian Horticulture 8 SCAN QR Code to Purchase Online March–April 2024 9 Fruit Bagging: A Shield for Quality Production Fruit cultivation requires constant care and monitoring to ensure the production of fruits of high quality. Fruit bagging stands out among the several methods used by fruit growers for its potency in preserving fruit quality as well as boosting sustainability. This technique has gained significant popularity and recognition within the realm of horticulture and agriculture due to its numerous benefits in improving fruit quality, appearance, and market value. Using this method, one can protect individual fruits from pests and diseases, harsh weather conditions and physical damage by enclosing them in bags made of different materials, such as paper, plastic or fabric. Fruit bagging not only safeguards the fruit’s integrity but also contributes to improved fruit appearance and quality by creating a microenvironment around the fruit. It may seem like a simple idea, yet it is crucial to the development of quality fruit crops. V ARIOUS good horticultural practices (GHP) are becoming popular throughout the world for high- quality fruit production with fewer necessities for synthetic chemicals. Pre-harvest fruit bagging has become a popular and successful method among these.