 If there is a high presence of weeds, it’s recommended to wait 2–3 weeks to allow pond water to suppress weeds and enhance the effectiveness of herbicides. Same fertilizer recommendations used for flooded rice can be used. It is suggested to apply nitrogen fertilizer directly on dry soil just prior to irrigation. This cost-effective solution enables farmers to adapt to water scarcity conditions like drought, boost overall production efficiency, and GHG emissions. AWD is considered to transform agriculture and food systems into more sustainable, efficient, biologically diverse and fair forms, fulfilling our obligations. Application of AWD is typically implemented during early stages of rice growth. However, at anthesis and flowering, rice fields must be constantly flooded as the crops are more susceptible to water scarcity at this time. This method is not effective in soil with rapid water drainage, i.e. sandy soil, as it leads to limited water savings. Effect of AWD on grain yield and water productivity Regulating irrigation in agriculture can result in a substantial decrease in labour, time, water and cost savings. On average, it is estimated that 16–24% of irrigation water and 20–25% of irrigation expenses can be reduced compared to traditional flood irrigation practices, without any notable decrease in yield. Although there is no significant difference in grain and biomass yield between AWD and continuous flooding, water efficiency has been found to be notably greater with use of AWD. Increase in yield and the enhancement of water efficiency could be attributed to increase in number of productive tillers brought about by lowering the angle of top leaves, leading to more light entering canopy and altering the shoot and root activity. This result in extraction of more water from soil, which is effectively transformed into dry matter production, thereby leading to better allocation and reallocation of photosynthates into grain, resulting in higher yields even under water-restricted conditions. Benefits of AWD Soil structure: Increased soil aggregation and macro-porosity, reduced flooding with AWD may result in improved soil structure for upland crops that will be grown after rice. Deeper root accumulation and greater aeration may have an impact on soil structure, with effects being most noticeable at lower depths. The transition to dry-direct sowing and aerobic rice may also be facilitated by improved soil structure. Mechanization: Better tilth, traction and soil load bearing capacity may be provided by improved soil structure, i.e. macro- porosity and aggregation from AWD. This increases the versatility of kinds of equipment and increases the efficiency of the machinery (a limiting factor in current rice mechanisation and its adoption).