 Š Š For protecting the livestock and poultry from heavy rain, proper housing should be provided. Repair of the shed should be done to prevent leakage of rainwater into the livestock and poultry shelter. Š Š The deep litters should be frequently turned and mixed with limes to prevent dampening and cake formation leading fungal growth. Š Š Strict Bio-security procedures should be followed at livestock and poultry farms. Foot bath should be provided at entrance of the farm with phenyl, or any antiseptic Š Š The area surrounding the livestock and poultry should be cleaned and disinfected by spraying Hypo-chloride solutions, phenol solutions or dusting with lime. Š Š Empty shed should be cleaned and fumigated with formalin and potassium per-magnate or may be sprayed with formalin solution for disinfection. Š Š Balanced feeding of poultry and livestock should be practiced. If possible low cost feed should be formulated from locally available feed ingredients viz. Broken rice, rice bran, coconut cake, Chunni (pulse), Till Cake, Fishmeal, Azolla, Shell grits etc. For feeding the livestock in contingencies. Š Š The Livestock and poultry feed should be properly stored in a dry and cool place in order to prevent the dampening and moulding of the feed. Š Š Artificial brooding should be provided to the chicks upto 4-6 weeks and artificial heat should ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 78 be provided to new born piglets to avoid early piglet mortality. Š Š The farmers should sow fodder seeds or cuttings in their field for ensuring nutritious fodder availability year around viz. Paragrass, Guinea grass, Hybrid napier, Sorghum. Š Š Fodder trees such as jackfruits, Glaricidea, Moringa, etc. may be planted for higher survivability during monsoon. Š Š Trimming of hooves should be done in cattle and goats to prevent foot-rots and other complications. Š Š Electrolyte should be provided for combating heat-stress. Š Š Supplementation of Mineral mixture (@ 50g cattle, 25g goats and pigs) should be provided for better productivity and reproductive performance in livestock. Š Š Avoid herding or farming of different species in the same premises. Š Š Clean milk production practice should be followed during milking, storing, transporting and marketing in order to prevent contamination of milk with dust and microbes. Š Š Always use mask and social distancing in farms and market places. Fishery Š Š Marine fishing, fishing holiday should be followed as recommended by the fisheries department, for breeding season and during cyclone period Š Š Inland fish Water Management - Keep the water clean and always maintain optimum water level and pH. Apply lime @ 500kg/ha and KMnO4@ 3-4mg/l at regular interval Š Š Feeding Management - Feed pallet feed daily 3% body weight. If pallet feed not available use locally available materials such as Rice bran and Mustard oil cake @ 1:1 Š Š Fish Disease Management - Observe fish health regularly.