 Infrastructure support by way of purchase of refrigerated containers or vehicles and working capital, should be extended to private sector. Š Š The use of non-conventional feed and fodder resources is one of the important areas for development of livestock in the state. The Agriculture University of Kashmir has done some research work to convert the agricultural waste into cattle feed. What is needed is that the state government should commercialize this research output either through its own or private initiatives. Š Š Jammu and Kashmir provides a suitable climate for cattle breeding. In other parts of the country, one has to create an artificial climate for cattle breeding and the success rate is also low. In Kashmir this initiative gives an added advantage and the success rate is also high. The state government should take steps to establish cattle breeding centres. It should open frozen semen centres in remote areas to cover all local cattle population. Š Š The demand for poultry products is constantly increasing. Due to climatic conditions, it has become the part of the regular diet. The state government should encourage the development of poultry through modern technology and take up some short duration projects along with NGO development. Š Š Improvement of local sheep by cross-breeding with fine wool breeds (Kashmir Merino, Russian Merino, Starapol, Caucasian Marino, Ramboulleit) can improve wool production qualitatively as well as quantitatively. Š Š Sheep crossbreeding with Polled Dorst (Mutton breed) has remained confined to selected pockets in the Valley such as Hajan block. Corriedale breed has shown good adaptability and performance in the orchard belt of Kashmir, i.e., Shopian area. The government should promote this initiative in other areas of the state as well. It is advisable to develop biotechnology research for enhancing animal productivity. Š Š In Jammu and Kashmir, feed and fodder which forms 60 per cent of milk production cost is a major constraint to the growth of dairy development. In the Kashmir and Ladakh region there is no fodder available for animals during winter. So the government should spearhead a feed and fodder development programme to develop this area. Š Š Establishment of Special Agricultural Zones based on climate/ physiographic factors and niches. State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 233 Š Š Delineation of all possible sources of water (zone-wise), strengthening of existing water resources, rejuvenation of dwindling water resources and creation of new possible water resources. Š Š Production and supply of quality seed/ planting material/Improved breeds of animals and poultry; development of seed banks/stores. Š Š Promotion of Organic farming, Integrated Farming System, Protected Cultivation among farming community. Š Š Increased focus of departments on promoting farm Mechanization. Š Š Promotion of High Density Plantation (HDP) in Apple, Almond, Mango, Guava etc.