3 Role of Agricultural Education in Food and Nutritional Security In 2019, on Global Hunger Index (GHI), India ranked 102 out of 119 countries, with a Global Hunger Index score of 30.3 (https://www.globalhungerindex.org/results.html), placing the country in the “serious” category. More than 20% of Indian children under the age of five have lower weight in relation to their height and about 33% are too short in relation to their age. Despite India being the world’s second largest food producer, it has second highest under-nourished population in the world. This requires sustained efforts to feed the burgeoning population of country that is poised to eclipse the population of China by 2027 to attain the status of the most populous nation on the planet. As per 4th Advance Estimates for 2017-18 (DOAC&FW, 2018-19), total food grain production in the country is estimated at 284.83 million tonnes which is higher by 9.72 million tonnes than the previous record production of food grain of 275.11 million tonnes achieved during 2016-17. The production during 2017-18 was also higher by 24.66 million tonnes than the previous five years’ (2012-13 to 2016-17) average production of food grain. The growth achieved in agricultural sector has been attributed to the concerted efforts of skilled human resource developed through AES. After independence, from the state of deficiency, country has moved to the stage of self-sufficiency in food grain production. It has enabled the country to increase production of food grains by 4-fold, horticultural crops by 6-fold, fish by 9-fold (marine 5-fold and inland 17-fold), milk by 6-fold, and eggs by 27-fold since 1950-51, thus making a visible impact on the national food and nutritional security. Thus human resource developed through AES in the country has primarily been responsible for various agricultural Landscape of Higher Agricultural Education in India 4 revolutions, viz. green, white, blue, yellow, pink leading to enhanced agricultural production and productivity. Not only this, the scientific expertise developed and research facilities manned by highly skilled and trained persons have been internationally recognized and a number of developing and developed countries have shown keen interest to work together and get mutually benefited through exchange programmes and collaborative research projects. Due to shrinking resources, there is a need to shift from input-based to knowledge-based increase in agricultural production to produce “More from Less for More”. Though the country has achieved self- sufficiency in cereal (starch) production, there is need to shift from starch to protein and fat (oil) self-sufficiency to combat the widely prevalent hidden hunger and malnutrition in rural women and children. 1.4 Talent Getting Attracted Towards Higher Agricultural Education Generally, there is an impression that meritorious students are not opting Agriculture as subject of their choice to pursue their higher studies.