5% gel electrophoresis (1–Soybean sample, 2–Cotton sample, 3–No template control, 4–Blank (H2O) control, M–Marker); (C) Colorimetric detection of LAMP by using Syber safe DNA gel stain (1–Positive soybean sample, 2–Positive cotton sample, 3–No template control, 4–Blank (H2O) control) Plantation crops Managing spread of coconut whitefly: An invasive species of spiralling whitefly, Aleurodicus rugioperculatus, was recorded in coconut plantation CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 67 in guava and pomegranate to newer areas. A simple technology for management of rice root-knot in nurseries, based on soil solarization of the nursery beds covered with 25 μm polythene sheet for 15 days during May/June (transplanted rice) + carbofuran (soil application) at 1kg a.i./ha at 45 days after transplanting, has been developed. Application of Trichoderma at 20 kg/ha or Paecilomyces lilacinus at 20 kg/ha + castor- cake at 2.0 tonnes / ha reduced nematode population (44%), root galling (38%) and increased yield by 29.7% in pomegranate infected with root-knot nematode. Root-knot nematodes are also causing tremendous yield losses in tomato and cucumber crops grown in polyhouses in several states. Integrated management of nematodes by fumigation with Metam sodium at 30 ml/m2 under polythene mulch for 15 days + neem-cake 200 g/m2 + Pseudomonas fluorescens at 50 g/m2 (mixed 15 days prior to transplanting tomato/cucumber) reduced nematodes by 80%, root galling by 51%, and increased yield by 49% in tomato. Newer chemicals like Nimitz and Fluopyram have given good results for nematode management. Integrated pest management Validation of IPM on rice fields: A protocol of IPM was validated on rice-crop cv. Pusa Basmati 1121 in 350 hectares in farmers’ participatory mode in cluster Mechanized Sett Treatment Device in Coimbatore. To manage the attack of coconut whitefly, an advisory was popularized among the farmers of Coimbatore district (Tamil Nadu) and Palakkad district (Kerala). Village- level workers were trained to spray predator, Chrysoperla zastrowii, on coconut trees. Yellow polythene sheet smeared with grease or castor oil wrapped around the trunk at the height of 5-6 feet from the ground level helped trap adult-insects. Nematode management Bacterium Lysinibacillus sphaericus, isolated as endosymbiont from females of Rotylenchulus reniformis, was identified and characterized based on rRNA. Cell- free culture filterate of L. sphaericus (suspension 108 per μl) caused 75 -87% mortality of R.reniformis New molecules to control Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotium rolfsii New chemical molecules of halogenated Schiff bases were synthesized and screened for anti-fungal bioassay against Rhizoctonia solani and Sclerotium rolfsii. Among the screened compounds, N-propyl-3, 5- dicholoro-2- hydroxyl acetophenonimine was found most active against both the fungi. Whereas two naturally occurring isoflavones viz.