7% area; ACZ III has hot-sub humid type climate with alluvium derived soils and have an area share of nearly 21.5%; and ACZ IV which covers only 3.7% of the area, has warm humid Himalayan type climate with brown forest and podzolic soil type. For the present study, Zone IV has been excluded as it is mostly occupied by the forest land, and has negligible area under agricultural practices. Topographically majority of the area is almost flat except the northern and southern parts which represent moderately undulating terrain. In India, these two states collectively produce 34% of total wheat and accounts for 21% of total cultivated land. Haryana’s climate is classified as subtropical, semi-arid to sub- humid, continental, and monsoon type. The average rainfall ranges from < 300 mm in the south-west (Hot arid zone-ACZ I) to over 1000 mm in the Shivalik hills’ mountainous tracks (Western Himalayan warm sub humid zone-ACZ IV) (Anon, 2019-20). In case of Punjab, the hot arid zone (ACZ I) receives average annual rainfall < 300 mm, which increases to 500–700 mm in semi-arid zone (ACZ II) followed by hot sub-humid zone (ACZ III) and Western Himalayan warm sub humid zone-ACZ IV (750–1000 mm) (Anon, 2020-21). The states of Punjab and Haryana receives average annual rainfall of nearly 649 mm and 617 mm, respectively and maximum rainfall occur during monsoon period i.e., from June end to September; it also receives a small amount of rainfall in December and January due to western disturbances. Average winter temperature ranges from 11 to 14 ◦C in the area under investigation. Spring wheat is the dominant crop grown in the area during winter season (Sowing: November-December, Harvest­ ing end of March to mid-April). Fig. 1. Location map showing the Agro-climatic Zones (ACZs) namely ACZ I, ACZ II, ACZ III and ACZ IV of Punjab and Haryana. L. Kaur et al. Agricultural Water Management 274 (2022) 107956 4 2.2. Datasets used The datasets used for this study are discussed in sequel. 2.2.1. Rainfall data Indian Meteorological Department (IMD) provides open access to daily rainfall data at 0.25 × 0.25-degree grid. Daily gridded data for Punjab and Haryana was downloaded from https://www.imdpune. govin/Clim_Pred_LRF_New/Grided_Data_Download.html for the present study. 2.2.2. Normalize difference vegetation index (NDVI) data 16-day NDVI data from the MOD13Q1 collection v006 product of MODIS Terra was procured for the Rabi season (growing season of the wheat) (December to March) from the LPDAAC (https://lpdaac.usgs. gov/lpdaac/tools). Cloud and other atmospheric disturbances affect the MODIS NDVI, which has a significant impact on the quality of NDVI. To overcome this shortcoming, LPDAAC also provides the quality control flags along with the data. Improved NDVI data using quality flags was obtained by using MODIS-VIIRS python toolbox and Arc Map software.