 Drought analysis has been quantified using a variety of approaches and indices. However, rainfall, soil moisture, vegetation status, potential evapotranspiration, groundwater level, and availability of surface water are among the most important drought-causative and responsive factors (Mishra and Singh, 2011). A number of drought indices such as Standard Precipitation Index (SPI) (McKee et al., 1993), Crop Moisture Index (CMI) (Palmer, 1968), Crop Specific Drought Index (CSDI) (Meyer et al., 1993), Agricultural Drought Index (DTx) (Matera et al., 2007), Moisture Adequacy Index (MAI) (McGUIRE and Palmer, 1957), Soil Moisture Index (SMI) (Hunt et al., 2009) and Combined Deficit Index (CDI) (Vyas et al., 2015) have been vividly enumerated in literature. SPI is one of the most widely used drought indices, and the World Meteorological Or足 ganization has recommended it for drought monitoring around the world (Abdulrazzaq et al., 2019). SPI only requires precipitation data as an input (Mondol et al., 2017) to assess the meteorological drought. At different temporal scales, the SPI also reflects a few aspects of agricul足 tural and hydrological droughts (Mishra and Singh, 2011). Further, drought indices derived from remotely sensed data are more effective than site-based drought indices for monitoring the spatio- temporal pattern of agricultural droughts. Drought indices produced from timeseries of remotely sensed data are extremely efficient in monitoring and assessing drought severity due to their high spatio- temporal resolution, especially in areas with few gauge stations (AghaKouchak et al., 2015). Various factors influence the vegetation response, including drought duration, severity, intensity, crop phenology and other environmental variables such as type and texture of soils, agricultural practices, and elevation of the area (Dubovyk et al., 2016). Jiao et al. (2019) developed a Geographically Independent In足 tegrated Drought Index (GIIDI) by integrating remote sensing data and a local ordered weighted averaging method, and it performed reasonably well in most of the North American climatic zones. Guo et al. (2019) proposed an Optimal Scaled Drought Condition Index (OSDCI) based on multiple remote sensing datasets, including NDVI and LST from MODIS, precipitation data from the Tropical Rainfall Measurement Mission (TRMM), and annual wheat and barley production in Central Asia. Their outcome proved the effectiveness of OSDCI in capturing and monitoring agricultural drought. Some researchers found the superiority of remote sensing retrieval of solar induced chlorophyll fluorescence (SIF) in capturing photosynthetic activity of vegetation under drought condi足 tions (Zhang, (a) et al., 2018; Xu et al., 2021; Liu et al., 2022), there is still a lack of scientific consensus on its ability to capture long-term droughts (Wang et al., 2016; Shekhar et al., 2020).