 Characterization and Refinment of Fish and Fishery Products The CIFE, Mumbai has isolated compounds responsible for aroma in fish such as hydrocarbons, aldehydes, alcohols, ketones, fatty acids . These compounds are being correlated are precursors. Preparation of Value Added Products Method was developed for production of chilly fish by modifying the recipe used for preparation of chilly chicken. The procedure was standaridized and the product packed in polythene sheets and stored at –20°C remained in good condition with respect to appearance, flavour and texture even after one year of storage. Method for preparation of battered and breaded products from cuttlefish fillets was standardized with respect to batter composition, breadcrumb size, etc. The samples were acceptable up to 15 months of storage. Packaging of Value Added Fish Products Indigenously available thermoformed containers made of PVC and polystyrene were found suitable for packing value added fish products. They were seen to be as good as the imported HDPC containers. The method developed for production of PUFA (Polyunsaturated fatty acid) concentrate was modified to reduce the consumption of water by about 15% without affecting the quality or yield of the product. Qualitative Determination of Metabisulphite Residues in Prawns A spot test for qualitative determination of metabisulphite residues in prawns was developed and is being perfected. This method is superior to the commonly employed malachite green test which responds to even untreated samples. FISH GENETICS RESOURCES Genetic Characterisation of Labeo Species Genetic characterisation of six Labeo species, viz. rohu, calbasu, bata, fimbriatus, gonius and diochelius was done using RAPD-PCR profiling. Intra and inter-species genetic similarities (GS) were evaluated and species specific RAPD fingerprints generated. High intra-specific genetic similarity co-efficients were found in all the species. Inter-specific genetic similarity estimates were used to hypothesize phylogenetic relationship among six species. The cluster analysis showed two main clusters one with bata, rohu, calbasu and diochelius and another fimbriatus and gonius indicating that members of each cluster are genetically close to each other. The present result is based, initially, on six random primers which indicates that RAPD-PCR profiling may be used as a molecular tool for assessing carp genetic diversity at species level identifying the taxonomic units and determining species distinctiveness. Gene Banking Under the gene banking programme, sperm cryopreservation protocol for POPULATION CHARACTERIZATION OF LABEO ROHITA Management of fish germplasm resources requires information on population genetic structure of species. Studies were conducted with random amplified polymorphic DNA markers and it was observed that populations of Labeo rohita in Kalibain and Satluj are genetically similar, whereas populations in Rapti and Mahanadi are equidistant from them.