 The training on production of this vaccine has also been imparted through National Diploma Courses and different Capacity Building Programs. yy Reduction of morbidity and mortality in poultry in the country was achieved by use of this vaccine. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com Technology transferred to: 1. State biological production units. 2 32 Infectious Bursal Disease Vaccine (Subviral Particle- based) yy Infectious Bursal Disease (IBD) also known as Gumboro disease of poultry is caused by IBD virus. yy IBD virus infects the bursa of Fabricius, particularly the actively dividing and differentiating B lymphocytes in young chickens, resulting in morbidity, mortality and immunosuppression. yy Bursal damage and depletion of B cells enhances the susceptibility of chickens to other infections and interferes with vaccination against other diseases. yy ICAR-IVRI, Izatnagar developed the subviral particle (SVP)-based Infectious bursal disease vaccine in 2018. yy It comprises of subviral particles (SVPs) formed by yeast expressed IBDV major capsid protein VP2. yy This vaccine, in addition to its ability to stimulate antibody response, is highly effective in stimulating antigen specific cytotoxic T lymphocyte responses. yy The vaccine does not cause immunosuppression in birds. yy One single injection of 0.1 ml vaccine, equivalent to 400 μg of SVPs, is to be given per chick at day-old age by intramuscular route. yy A single shot of this vaccine in the hatchery can eliminate the costly and time consuming vaccination in the field. yy The vaccine is ready for commercialization. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar-243122 (U.P.). E-mail: directorivri@gmail.com 3 NOTES NOTES   

   Printed: October, 2020 Guidance and Support: Dr. Trilochan Mohapatra Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi-110001 Citation: Ravinder Kaur (2020) JalopcharTM - An Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Technology. ICAR Success Story, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, pp. 44. All rights reserved © 2020, Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-205-2 Published by Dr S.K. Singh, Project Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 and printed at M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi-110028. MESSAGE Water is vital for global food security. Over the years, increased withdrawal of groundwater for various purposes including irrigation has contributed to aquifer depletion, groundwater pollution and soil salinization. Excessive groundwater extraction coupled with climate change has intensified fresh water stress and resulted in challenges for our country's rain- fed agriculture.