 It was first recorded at Conoor in 1889, and later in 1909 from Kumaon and Shimla hills. The aphid secretes woolly filaments of wax over their bodies and hence is named woolly aphid. Dispersal of this pest is mainly through nursery stock and sometimes through first- instar nymphs if branches of trees are touching each other. The pest is active throughout the year attacking primarily the roots but winged forms also infest trunks, branches, stems, twigs, leaf petioles and fruit stalks. The tissues around the feeding zone undergo excessive cell division and elongation resulting in formation of galls or knots which may split up in 1-2 months. Such splits can act as point of entrance for Sumit Vashisth1*, Sudhir Verma2, Subhash C Verma3, Inder Dev4 and Rajeshwar S Chandel5 Apple plants at Tabo, Spiti, Himachal Pradesh Prospects March–April 2024 17 pathogens. Severe galling interferes with nutrient uptake resulting in nutrition imbalance which ultimately reduces vitality and yield. Infested nursery plants are the main source of spread of this aphid. The infested plants have pale green leaves and whitish cottony patches on stems and branches. The nymphs and adults cause damage by sucking sap from the branches, twigs and roots. They keep on moving from aerial parts to the root zone and vice versa. Usually, the affected plants remain stunted with greatly reduced bearing capacity. In case of young trees, the roots disintegrate to such an extent that these trees are easily uprooted by even moderately strong winds. Further, the fruits from the heavily infested trees are of poor quality, being undersized, malformed and insipid in taste. The pest multiplies rapidly and is conspicuous during June-August. No specific monitoring procedures or treatment thresholds have been developed for woolly apple aphids. Generally, monitoring should begin in mid- summer or perhaps earlier if the winter is mild. If many colonies are in the fruiting zone of the tree, treatment will probably be needed. Wolly Apple Aphid under Natural Farming Natural farming aims to promote traditional indigenous practices which reduces externally purchased inputs and exclusion of all synthetic chemical inputs. Natural farming has also been adopted in Himachal Pradesh through its Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana (PK3Y). Natural Farming is comprised of chemical-free alias traditional farming methods. It is considered an agroecology-based diversified farming system which integrates crops, trees and livestock with functional biodiversity. Under Natural Farming, Agniastr is being used as a homemade liquid form pesticide (Table 1) which is used to kill or repel insect pests and also increase the richness of the soil. It contains cow’s urine as a main ingredient which has antibodies and lots of beneficial factors. A creeper, commonly known as Thuklang (Hyoscyamus niger L.