64 Impact: More farmers are adopting the technology and the famers who adopted the technology increased their cultivation area. Farmer having terrace land shifted their cropping pattern and changed their crops to ginger cultivation intercropped with soybean. 2. Rice-Fish culture: A new dimension of Farming in Meghalaya 379 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 In recent years, many farmers shows keen interest in fish culture and hence, construction of ponds came up in many feasible areas but sadly, there are also many farmers who convert their productive paddy fields into fish ponds since most of them have no choice as they are small land holders. Even though many farmers take up fish culture, yet there is no encouraging results in terms of productivity and profitability due to poor management, lack of technical knowhow and also because they cannot afford to buy fish feed (rice/ wheat bran and mustard oil cake). Integrated Farming Systems hold special position as in this system nothing is wasted, which can also help poor small farmers who have very small land holding to diversify farm production, reduce input cost and exploitation of unutilized resources. Details of technology Paddy field was modified by digging canals or trenches of 0.5 - 0.6 m deep and 1 m wide connecting (intersect) to the small central sump in the middle of the field. The dykes had been elevated and installed with inlet and outlet protected with fine screening. Fencing with netting material was also done at the lower part of the field to prevent fish from escaping during heavy rains. Local rice variety (ba lwai) was transplanted when the field is ready. After two weeks of transplantation, fingerlings of Common carp (main species), silver carp, gonius, etc were stocked @ 6000 nos. per hectare of paddy area. Minimal feed were given with rice bran and mustard oil cake in the ratio of 1:1. Liming and manuring were also done regularly. Output & Outcome: Before intervention, the yield of paddy was about 15q/ha but after intervention, the yield of paddy enhanced to 20q/ha and what is more interesting, she also got fish from the same plot. The yield of fish from the paddy field was 500 kg/ha. According to her, this technology is very simple and low cost with high economic return. The increase in rice production is also a 380 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 result of stocking fish (common carp as the main species) as a component of integrated pest management. Due to the integration of fish in the field, use of pesticides is completely stopped. But there are also difficulties because many paddy fields are not feasible for fish integration due to the hilly terrain that restricts the size of the field. 1 ha of paddy field having different form and size of trenches (Average: 0.5 m deep and 1 m wide) with common carp as the main species gave a net profit of Rs 70,315.