 948 Use of Clayey Salty Soils and its Composite Derivatives for Construction and Ceramics for Household Use 

Design of novel IoT-based solar powered PV pumping systems for agricultural applications in diverse climatic zones of India Amit Kumar Yadav a,**, Vibha Yadav b, Hasmat Malik c,f, Rohit Khargotra d, Tej Singh e,* a School of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, SR University, Warangal, 506371, Telangana, India b School of Agricultural Sciences, IIMT University, Meerut, Uttar Pradesh, 250007 India c Department of Electrical Power Engineering, Faculty of Electrical Engineering, Universiti Teknologi Malaysia (UTM), Johor Bahru, 81310, Malaysia d Sustainability Solutions Research Lab, University of Pannonia, Egyetem U. 10, Veszpr´em, 8200, Hungary e Savaria Institute of Technology, Faculty of Informatics, ELTE E¨otv¨os Lor´and University, Budapest, 1117, Hungary f Department of Electrical Engineering, Graphic Era (Deemed to be University), Dehradun 248002, India A R T I C L E I N F O Keywords: Water pumping Economic analysis Photovoltaic system IoT A B S T R A C T Irrigation is a crucial component of the agriculture industry. The gross domestic output of India is about 15 % derived from its farmers. Crop failure is common among farmers, primarily because of inadequate irrigation techniques and irregular power and water supplies. To begin with, a survey of farmers from various parts of India was undertaken in this regard, and the results indicated that most of them lacked an effective irrigation system. An inventive solar-powered irrigation system devised and deployed to address this problem includes an auto- mated Internet of Things (IoT) system. This IoT system, which functions based on the moisture content of the soil, plays a crucial role in ensuring that the crops receive the right amount of water at the right time. Furthermore, the PV pumping system addresses irrigation issues in various Indian climate conditions, including composite, warm and humid, cold, moderate, hot, and dry. The locations chosen for these climate conditions are Jaisalmer in Rajasthan, Bangalore in Karnataka, Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh, Patna in Bihar, and Amaravati in Andhra Pradesh. Performance ratios range from 0.514 to 0.739, system and pump efficiencies from 61 % to 88.80 %, and 57.10 %–58.60 %, respectively. 1. Introduction The data shows that the 2023 Global Hunger Index score is 18.3, less than one point compared to the 2015 global score of 19.1. In contrast, the worldwide prevalence of undernourished is projected to increase from 7.5 % in 2017 to 9.2 % in 2022, affecting approximately 735 million people [1]. Therefore, increasing food production in the face of climate-induced pressures to sustain growing populations is a para- mount objective worldwide, especially for developing countries [2,3].