 The chewing by the wood-boring insect makes a characteristic sound which could be heard by the human ear, but many a times these sounds are not audible and a very sensitive device is needed to hear. By using acoustic devices, the early infestation of the insects could be detected easily by non-invasive method. Taking help from GIS, GPS and AI: Risk assessment or predicting the likelihood, that an environment will be invaded by a non-native species, is considered to be the first step in mitigating the impacts of invasive species. Geographical Information Systems (GIS) and Global Positioning System (GPS) are used to pin point a location on earth and perform spatial analysis. Using an artificial intelligence (AI) system, it is possible to create potential distribution maps of an invasive species. Various models are emerging for the prediction of potential threat of invading species. The species environmental matching (SEM) model is one such example which predicts the spread of the Eucalyptus gall wasp in China. Proposal of schematic diagram on forewarning of pest in paddy ecosystem using eDNA Success story Many innovations come from farmers and one such method is the use of stethoscope for the detection of borer pest in the fruit and plantation trees. Mr Chakradhar Pradhan of Bargarh district in Orissa used stethoscope to detect incidence of borers in his lemon orchard. His novel approach for the detection of hidden pest incidence could be applied to most perennial fruit trees such as coconut, arecanut, different species of palm, and different temperate fruit trees such as apples, pear, peaches and plums which are prone to different shoot and root borer insects. Also, use of acoustics is applied for the early detection of invasive pests such as Asian longhorn beetle and Emrald ash borer in the USA. In quarantine stations, the use of acoustics may prevent the entry of wood boring pests. Chakradhar Pradhan, who innovated the early detection of borer pests in trees using a stethoscope Indian Farming 28 April 2023 SUMMARY At this moment, we are most vulnerable to the threat of alien Electronic nose for the detection of Emrald ash borer Source: United States Department of Agriculture universities, agriculture departments etc. with advanced technologies to avoid crises as those created in the recent past. The timely review of available technologies and the incorporation of these modern technologies into pest management brings additional benefits to sustainable agriculture. In India, quarantine centers should be fully equipped with such technologies to create barriers between indigenous flora and fauna and alien species. Once these alien species break the quarantine barrier, the result can be catastrophic for food production and the environment. Hence, the article describes the few technologies that have been already adopted or are at the stage of development to be recruited in the science of invasion in the near future.