75 lakh, annually. Front view of fishing Fish fingerlings supply CASE STUDY Sustainable Income through “Fish Cultivation” Smt. Thenurovino, a graduate, is a progressive farmer from Khonoma village of Kohima District, Nagaland. She rears pig, poultry and cultivates various seasonal crops, but without much remuneration, as the germplasm is poor; and she was also not aware of various farming options, which could provide her employment and provide a source of income for livelihood. KVK, Kohima has been regularly conducting trainings and various extension activities at Khonoma village. Smt. Thenurovino happened to be a beneficiary in one of the trainings on “Rabbit Farming”, and expressed her interest in “Rabbit Farming”, since then. When the same KVK conducted a Frontline Demonstration on “Broiler Rabbit Farming”, she was also selected as one of the beneficiaries. During the demonstration, bunnies and cages were provided to all the farmers as a part of the programme and timely monitoring was done till the end of the programme. After the FLD, Smt. Thenurovino established “Backyard Rabbit Farming” unit under the technical guidance of KVK Scientists.The outcome was assessed for one year, and the results were found to be very encouraging. During this period, she sold 220 nos. of bunnies (@ 350/- per bunny), with a gross income of 77,000. Excluding the initial investment on the housing and equipment, she could get a net profit of about 70,000. More farmers have started rearing rabbit in their villages, as the investment and management is less as compared to the other livestock farming. She continues to inspire and encourage fellow villagers to adopt modern farming techniques for income and self-employment. A view of backyard rabbit farming unit of Smt.Thenurovino CASE STUDY “Backyard Rabbit Farming” for Income-generation and Self-employment CASE STUDY Farm Woman Sets Example through “Organic Cultivation of Broccoli” Smt. Otok Nopi Taggu is a school drop-out and hard working farm woman belonging to Upper Siang District of Arunachal Pradesh. She has taken up different agricultural and horticultural practices since the last 10-15 years with success, and has established herself as a renowned progressive farm woman in the district. With the intervention of KVK, Upper Siang, she has started organic cultivation of broccoli since last two and half years; and her income has become manifold. She also underwent one training on package of practices of Broccoli and demonstration on nursery raising of Broccoli organised by KVK, Upper Siang, Arunachal Pradesh. To encourage and as a support, seeds of broccoli variety (Solan Green) were provided to her, coupled with other means, viz. regular field visits, advisories and proper monitoring. She cultivated exotic vegetable Broccoli in 1.00 ha with organic practices, wherein she harvested 5,000 kg of Broccoli and got a net income of 1.74 lakh with 3.35 BCR.