 Then this mixture is fed with the help of bamboo piece (stick) as well as smeared on the backbone of the affected animal thrice a day for a week to get satisfactory results. This practice is age-old in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: bakaine, lobnan, mustard oil, colds and severe fever Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2612 Use of a mixture made from ajwain (Trachyspermum roxburghianum), dry ginger, black salt and goat milk to cure old fever in animals When animals (cattle, cow and buffalo) suffer from old fever, farmers use a mixture made from ajwain, dry ginger, black salt and goat milk. About 75 g ajwain, 75 g dry ginger and 75 g black salt are powdered. This mixture is again mixed and boiled with 300-400 ml goat milk. The dose is fed orally by stick twice a day for 15 days to get complete relief from the old fever. The practice is age-old in Sonapur village of Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: ajwain, dry ginger, black salt, goat milk, old fever Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2523 Use of pig oil to cure cough in animals In winter season cough and fever are common diseases in animals. Generally the scheduled cast and scheduled tribe people make oil from fats of pig body part. After killing the pig and separation of the meat, generally the fat is taken out and its extra water content is reduced by burning. This is stored in the bottle. In one dose, about 250 g oil, twice a day is given and kept for 10 days. It is an age-old practice and is followed in Sonapur village in Azamgarh district of Uttar Pradesh. Keywords: pig oil, cough Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2638 Use of fenugreek, turmeric, linseed and kohandouwary to cure cough in animal In winter, generally the animals suffer from cough. The following mixture is used for it. About 50 g fenugreek, 5 pieces of turmeric, 50 g linseed, 5 pieces of red chilli and 10 pieces of kohandouwary (it is a kind of ethnic dry food which is made of blackgram seeds and some spices) are cooked with 1 litre water, and 50-60 g of it is given to the animal, twice a day. This practice is continued for a week to get complete recovery. This is in use in village Sonapur of Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, P.O. Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128  Azamgarh district in Uttar Pradesh. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: cough, fenugreek, turmeric, linseed, kohandouwary 2629 Use of mixture made from garlic, turmeric and jaggery for control of fever in animals Some times an animal suffers from fever and raises its hairs as someone approaches to or try to touch it. About 50 g garlic (Allium sativum), 50 g ajwain (Trychyspermum roxburghiamum), 50 g turmeric (Curcuma domestica) and 250 g jaggery are mixed well and boiled in water (100 ml). This is given as 1 dose and 3 doses are given in a day.