 The common support assumption ensures that the farmer with the same observable covariates, can be both adopter and non-adopter with a positive probability. The implication of above assumptions are that no unobservable factors influence adoption and agricultural outcomes (viz., farm profit and crop wise yield) (Caliendo and Kopeinig, 2008). Another implication is that one farmer’s adoption of SWC measures does not exclusively depend on another farmer’s adoption. Once these assumptions are satisfied, the matching technique can be used to match adopters and non-adopters and create counter­ factuals. The Average Treatment on Treated Approach (ATT) is written as: ATT = E[(Yi(1)|, Ti = 1, X)] −E[(Yi(0)|, Ti = 1, X)]……… (3) However, since there are a large set of covariates, matching on covariates could be difficult and it can be resolved with the use of pro­ pensity scores. The IPWRA estimator for ATT can be specified as follows: ATT = E[(Yi(1)|, Ti = 1, P(X)] −E[(Yi(0)|, Ti = 0, P(X)]……… (4) where, P(X) = P(Ti = 1|X) is the propensity score, i.e., the conditional probability for a farmer to adopt SWC measures given his observed covariates ‘X’. Due to large number of observed covariates, the problem arises while matching. The literature refers to this as “the curse of dimensionality” (Caliendo and Kopeinig, 2008). This can be resolved “if we can control scalar value function of observable covariates, namely, propensity score” which is generated from all covariates in vector X, to create counterfactual. Here the propensity score is a function of plot level, socio-economic, village and community level characteristics. Therefore, ATT is the mean difference of agricultural outcome (i.e., aggregate profit, crop wise net profit and crop wise yields) between adopters and non-adopters. 4.1. Estimation method The study utilized an inverse-probability-weighted regression adjustment (IPWRA) approach to analyze the causal impact of SWC measures on agricultural aggregate profit (i.e., profit accrued through cultivation of major crops paddy, maize, and cotton), crop-wise profit (i. e., profit obtained by cultivating paddy, maize and cotton separately) and crop-wise yields. The IPWRA approach utilizes weighted regression coefficients to estimate treatment effect, in which the “weights are the estimated inverse probabilities of treatment” (Wooldridge, 2010). The IPWRA approach involves three steps while estimating treatment ef­ fects. First, the probability of adopting SWC practice (i.e., the treatment model) is estimated using a simple logit regression model. The predicted probabilities are utilized in estimating the inverse-probability weights. The potential predictors are based on detailed review of the literature, and these include (a detailed description is provided below) plot level, household socio-economic, village level characteristics, and market and institutional variables (i.e., watershed activities).