 Recirculatory aquaculture using minimum water and area. vi. Promotion of seed production. I. Hilly Zone i. Promotion of hi-tech horticulture and exotic fruits and orchids with agro-eco tourism. ii. Management of soil health in low lands or valley areas. 254 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 iii. Effective management of animal menace. iv. Strengthening of traditional water storage structures. v. Improve the productivity of livestock. vi. Promotion of different Integrated Farming System modules. vii. Promotion of aquaculture in seasonal water bodies. viii. Plantation based IFS. J. Coastal Zone i. Rain-shelter horticulture and value addition for export. ii. Management of soil acidity and associated problems. iii. Management man-animal conflict. iv. Strengthening of traditional water storage structures. v. Improve the productivity of livestock. vi. Brackish water aqua culture; backwater cage culture; bioflock method of prawn culture. vii. Feeding with fish dressing waste in cage culture. viii. High density cashew plantations. Role of Technologies for doubling the farmers’ income 1. Agriculture It is essential to bridge the yield gaps, enhance the productivity and profitability, minimize risk and improve the livelihoods of millions of people dependent on agriculture through agricultural technology. Improved and tolerant varieties along with the proper management practices can enhance the productivity through risk reduction in vulnerable environments. Considering the need, State Agricultural Universities in Karnataka have developed several improved crop varieties. The field trials showed that the yield of the new improved varieties can add 20‐25 % to increased productivity, even if other components of production remain the same. A recent study revealed that improved crop management technology packages (integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, conservation agriculture etc) increased average productivity up to 205% and average farm net income by 160%. 255 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Table: Technologies Related to Agriculture for doubling the farmers’ income S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to adoption of technology(in percentage) 1. Improved varieties/ hybrids of different crops Paddy- GGV-05-01(Gangavati sona), IET 19251, GNV- 10-89, Pigeonpea: TS-3R, GRG-811, Greengram: BGS-9, Chickpea- GBM-2, Sunflower- RSFH-1887, RSFH-130, Cotton; SCS-793, SHH-818 15-20% 2. Direct seeded rice in irrigation command University of Agricultural Sciences, Raichur has developed production technologies and popularized direct seeded rice in Tungabhadra and Upper Krishna Project of domain area.