 Seed deterioration causes and methods of control. Physiological, biochemical and molecular changes in seed ageing. Longevity of orthodox and recalcitrant seeds. Seed drying and Packaging needs. Storage structures. Methods of stacking and their impact. Short and medium term storage. Controlled storage. Germplasm storage. Cryo preservation. Design features of short, medium and long-term seed storage buildings. Operation and management of seed stores. Unit 6 : Seed Health Significance of seed health. Mode and mechanism of transmission of microorganisms - fungi, bacteria and viruses. Procedures for seed health test and rules. Externally and internally seed - borne pathogens, mode of infection, development and spread, methods of detection of seed borne diseases. Important seed-borne diseases of cereals, oilseeds, pulses, fibre crops, vegetables and their control measures. Quarantine and International procedures of phytosanitary certificates. Important storage pests, their identification, monitoring and detection. ET value, nature and extent of damage, natural enemies and management. Use of pesticides, botanicals, mycotoxins for seed treatments. Carry over infestation, principles of fumigation and safe use of fumigants. Unit 7: Seed Industry Development and Marketing Trends in National and International seed industry development-OECD. International Seed Trade Federation (ISF) and Indian seed associations. Economics of seed production. Market survey, demand forecasting, pricing policies, marketing channels, planning and sales promotion. Buyer behavior and role of Government, semi Government, co-operative and private sectors in seed trade. Responsibilities of seed companies and dealers in Seed Act. Seed import and export. Unit 8 : Protection of Plant Varieties Plant Variety Protection (PVP) and its significance. Protection of Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Right Act, 2001, its essential features. International Union for the Protection of New Varieties of Plants (UPOV) and its role in development of Plant breeders Rights and Seed Industry Development. Impact of PVP on seed supply system. DUS testing principles and application. Biodiversity Act. Criteria for protection of Essentially Derived Varieties (EDVs) and Genetically modified (GM) varieties. 21 02 CROP SCIENCES-II 2.1 PLANT PATHOLOGY Unit 1: History and Principles of Plant Pathology Milestones in phytopathology with particular reference to India. Major epidemics and their social impacts. Historical developments of chemicals, legislative, cultural and biological protection measures including classification of plant diseases. Physiologic specialization, Koch’s postulates. Growth, reproduction, survival and dispersal of plant pathogens. Factors influencing infection, colonization and development of symptoms. Unit 2: Laboratory and Analytical Techniques Preparation and sterilization of common media. Methods of isolation of pathogens and their identification.