 The number of intermediaries in the chain is exceedingly high. These intermediaries are important because they act as a substitute for infrastructure where none exists. But over the years a layer of intermediaries has grown most of which add little value to the produce but collectively they add significantly to the final cost. India accounts for 10% of the world fruit production (Food and Agricultural Organization of the United Nations, 2008). Agribusiness, supply chain management (SCM) implies managing the relationships between the businesses responsible for the efficient production and supply of products from the farm level to the consumers to meet consumers’ requirements reliably in terms of quantity, quality and price. In practice, this often includes the management of both horizontal and vertical alliances and the relationships and processes between firms. In the traditional business model; wholesalers are intermediaries and a predominant link in the retail vegetable logistical chain. In general, all the retailers are inevitably dependent on the local wholesales market. The major constraints are poor transport facilities, non-availability of large scale cold storage, no clean policy guidelines from government and fragmented and small farmers. The fruits and vegetables farming for processing is not only employment intensive, but also enhance the gross as well as net returns of the farmers [1,26,31]. Changes in the macro environment were occurring parallel to the changes at consumer level. These included a trend towards consolidation of organisations (at farm input, farm, processor and supermarket levels), principally to drive down the costs of production through economies of scale, but also to gain market share and competitive strength in an increasingly global market place. Preparing for global trade also led to deregulation of agribusiness markets by government withdrawal from marketing in several countries. This created the opportunity to rethink the business strategy, and create new supply chain relationships. Traditional supply chains in developing countries typically involve many players, and are tightly linked with long-standing social structures. As developing countries enter into World Trade Organization arrangements their agricultural industries will be subject to increasing competition in their domestic markets, and have greater incentives to meet global standards in export markets. SCM provides one approach to planning the improvements needed in the management of their agricultural production and marketing systems to meet future challenges.(Elizabeth)[14]. OECD-FAO estimates suggest that with world population touching 9 billion by 2050, agricultural production will need to increase by 60 per cent over the next 40 years to meet the rising demand for food. Additional one billion tonnes of cereals and 200 million tonnes of meat a year has to be produced by the year 2050 as compared with 2005–07 levels.