 The map was then di- vided into four categories: very good, good, moderate, and not suitable. The methodology used in this study is shown as a ﬂowchart in Table 2 . 3. Results and discussions 3.1. Geology The geology of the Anantapur district was produced using data from the “District Gazetteer” and unpublished studies from the Ge- ological Survey of India. The geological formations in the Ananta- pur district may be generally separated into two distinct and well- deﬁned groups: an older group of Archaean metamorphic rocks and a newer group of Proterozoic sedimentary rocks ( Golla et al., 2022 ; Kumar et al., 2022b ). From a geological standpoint, the study region is located in the northern section of the proterozoic Kadapa basin. Dolomite, Chert, Mudstone, Meta ultramaﬁc/meta pyroxenite/Talc-tremolite Schist, Metagabbro, Quartzite with Con- glomerate and Shale, tuff were found in the vicinity ( Fig. 3 a). 3.2. Geomorphology Geomorphology, or the study of landforms and the physical processes that govern them, is critical to environmental manage- 4 B.N. Anusha, K.R. Babu, B.P. Kumar et al. Geosystems and Geoenvironment 2 (2023) 100131 Fig. 3. (a) Geological map, (b) geomorphological map, (c) soil texture map, (d) slope map (e) land use land cover map, and (f) drainage density map of the study area. ment. Improved methods of mapping geomorphological charac- teristics have aided in estimating the development potential of land in both urban and rural environments. Geomorphological pro- cesses are part of a wider system of interrelated phenomena, and their environmental signiﬁcance must be assessed in light of the social, economic, and cultural circumstances of the local people ( Kadam et al., 2019 ; Kumar et al., 2021 ). The region has both erosional and depositional features ( Fig. 3 b). Fluvial Origin-Active Flood Plain, River/ Water bodies, Denudational Origin-Pediment- Pediplain Complex, and Structural Origin-Low Dissected Hills and Valleys are examples of the former ( Golla et al., 2022 ). 3.3. Soils The soils in the research region may be divided into deep black clayey soils, soils that are very dark brown and fairly damp, cal- careous black soils with a moderate depth, skeletal deep reddish- brown loamy to clayey soils, gravelly clayey shallow dark brown soils. The clayey soils in the study region were formed by the breakdown of shale and granitic schist. Loamy to clayey skele- tal deep reddish-brown soils covered the majority of the research region ( Fig. 3 c). These soils have low porosity and permeability, making groundwater yields poor and making cultivation diﬃcult. The most often farmed irrigated crops are ragi, paddy, groundnut, and sugarcane. Citrus is occasionally cultivated in various areas. In many regions where there is enough water, two paddy crops are usually planted.