 Postharvest decay reduces mango fruit quality and shelf-life, limiting domestic and worldwide commercialization and causing significant financial losses. Similar to other fresh produce, mangoes can deteriorate after harvest because of the rapid proliferation of diseases during ripening and storage. There are many postharvest pathogens that are responsible for mango postharvest decay which includes anthracnose, Alternaria, Penicillium, stem end rot etc. Among the pathogens, anthracnose (Colletotrichum gloeosporioides) is one of the most important pathogens responsible for the postharvest decay of mango. It is reported that 25-50% postharvest loss occurs at different postharvest stages of mango. Not only pathogens, other factors which may also be responsible for postharvest decay of mango fruits such as bruising, cuts, and physical damage due to tissue breakdown and physiological processes. Factors responsible for postharvest fruit decay Mechanical injury: Inappropriate handling during harvesting, packing, transporting, storing, etc. might result in mechanical damage. The rate of water loss and gaseous exchange is often increased when fruits suffer mechanical injury, such as bruising or cracking, which makes them more vulnerable to organism attack. Microbial action: Microbiological attacks can potentially cause damage to fruits. The primary causes of microbiological deterioration are molds, bacteria, yeast, and fungi. However, fungus and bacterial infections are largely accountable for fruit losses during the postharvest period. Environmental factors: Postharvest loss of fruits is largely influenced by external conditions, including temperature, humidity, and the kind and amount of gases in controlled atmospheric storage. The elevated temperature and increased relative humidity encourage the growth of microorganisms, leading to significant harm to the fruits. Secondary factors: A favourable environment for secondary causes of loss is created by inadequate harvesting, shipping, storage, and marketing practices as well as laws. Furthermore, using insufficient harvesting tools and rough handling of fruit throughout the process causes bruises and increases the likelihood that the produce will come into touch with the soil, which could contaminate it with microorganisms. Control measures Plant growth regulators applications: Foliar applications of plant growth regulators in optimum concentrations may be helpful for reducing the postharvest decay of mango fruits. Plant growth regulators ability to delay the senescence, which makes it difficult for decaying organisms to develop and thrive. Forchlorfenuron (20 ppm) immediately after fruit set was found to minimize the incidence of fruit decay during storage. Plants sprayed with NAA 100 ppm at colour break stage experienced minimum spoilage during cold storage. Mango cv. Amrapalli pre-sprayed with 5 ml of Paclobutrazol at the fruit set is effective in enhancing shelf-life by reducing postharvest decay.