 Brooders are raised in earthen ponds along with other fishes. ŠŠ Sexes are well differentiated at maturity with females having bulged abdomen and males ooze white-milt on pressing the belly. ŠŠ Females are injected with synthetic hormone viz., Ovatide/Ovaprim @ 1.0-1.5 ml/kg body weight for successful stripping after 13-14 h of injection. ŠŠ Dry method of stripping is resorted and ova are fertilized with collected milt. Female lays 1.2- 1.4 lakh eggs/kg body weight. Eggs are adhesive and hence sticky layer of egg is removed before shifting eggs to hatching tanks. ŠŠ Hatching occurs in a day and the hatchlings of 3-4 mm size, thus obtained are reared further in a separate tank in hatchery at low stocking density of 500-1,000/m2 to reduce mortality due to cannibalism. ŠŠ Larvae are fed with small zooplankton, obtained from repeated sieving of zooplankton or Artemia nauplii or tubifex worms from fourth day onwards. Within 15-20 days, larvae attain average weight of 30-40 mg and called early-fry. ŠŠ Early-fry are stocked further in nursery ponds or concrete tanks @ 10-15 nos/m2 and fed with crumbled feed daily to get 2-3 g fry size in 1-2 months. ŠŠ The breeding technology is being adopted in the state of Odisha. 26 Freshwater Shark Wallago attu (Bloch & Schneider, 1801) ŠŠ Largest freshwater catfish of India and distributed from Pakistan to Vietnam and Indonesia. ŠŠ Matures within 2 years and spawn during May-September in rivers and large reservoirs. ŠŠ For captive breeding, broodstock are raised in ponds and fed with small-size fishes. ŠŠ Sexes are separate and distinct. Males have slender body, large pectoral fins with serrations on pectoral spine and swollen pointed genital papilla, whereas females have bulging abdomen, soft pectoral spine and blunt genital papilla. ŠŠ Pairing of both female and male is made in 1:1 to 1:2 depending on size of the fish. Fishes are induced by pituitary gland extract or commercial fish hormone Ovaprim/GonoproFH. Injected with pituitary extract, the females are given in two doses (@ 4 mg/kg and 12 mg/kg) and males are given one dose of 2-3 mg/kg, while with use of commercial hormone single of 0.5-0.6 ml/kg and 0.3 ml/kg is given to female and male respectively. ŠŠ Injected brooders are transferred to spawning tank provided with wooden logs and macrophytes such as Hydrilla verticellata. Spawning occurs after 6-8 h of hormone injection. ŠŠ Eggs are sticky and hence attached to the weeds, wooden logs and even to tank walls. Fertilization rate ranged from 70-90%. Eggs are spherical, pale yellow having diameter of 2.2- 2.8 mm. Fecundity is around 30,000-40,000 eggs/kg. ŠŠ Hatching occurs within 14-18 h at 28±1°C. Hatchlings start crawling over the tank bottom from 2nd day and feed on their siblings. Hence, feeding them with zooplankton and cut pieces of insect larvae is essential from 2nd day onwards. ŠŠ Yolk-sac is absorbed on 4th day. Spawn is collected and transferred to another tank for growing to fry stage.