 Sigfox is a long range, low power, low data rate form of wireless communications that has been developed to provide wireless connectivity for devices like remote sensors, actuators and other M2M and IoT devices. The main competitive advantage of the Sigfox technology is for the deployment with a large coverage with a limited number of base stations. 2.3. Low Power Short Range Technologies 2.3.1. Wi-Fi/ IEEE 802.11 Based Technologies Wi-Fi is a family of wireless network protocols based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards, which are commonly used for local area networking of devices and Internet access, allowing nearby digital devices to exchange data by radio waves. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Wi-Fi most commonly uses the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz radio bands; these bands are subdivided into multiple channels. Channels can be shared between networks, but within range only one transmitter can transmit on a channel at a time. Wi-Fi compatible devices can connect to the Internet via a WLAN network and a wireless access point. Such an access point (or hotspot) has a range of about 20 meters indoors and a greater range outdoors. Hotspot coverage can be as small as a single room with walls that block radio waves, or as large as many square kilometers achieved by using multiple overlapping access points. Various IEEE 802.11 standards are mentioned in table below- Table 4: Various IEEE 802.11 Standards IEEE Standard Frequency Bands Max Speed 802.11a 5 GHz 54 Mbit/s 802.11b 2.4 GHz 11 Mbit/s 802.11g 2.4 GHz 54 Mbit/s 5https://www.sigfox.com/ Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report SigfoxoG Technology SigfoxoG technology”, a proprietary wireless communication technology, is a Low-Power Wide- Area (LPWA) networking protocol owned by UnaBiz. It is designed to connect sensors and devices securely at low-cost in the most energy efficient way to enable Massive loT. Sigfox is a long range, low power, low data rate form of wireless communications that has been developed to provide wireless connectivity for devices like remote sensors, actuators and other M2M and loT devices. The main competitive advantage of the Sigfox technology is for the deployment with a large coverage with a limited number of base stations. 2.3. Low Power Short Range Technologies 2.3.1. Wi-Fi/ IEEE 802.11 Based Technologies Wi-Fi is a family of wireless network protocols based on the IEEE 802.11 family of standards, which are commonly used for local area networking of devices and Internet access, allowing nearby digital devices to exchange data by radio waves. Wi-Fi is a trademark of the Wi-Fi Alliance. Wi-Fi most commonly uses the 2.4 GHz and 5 GHz radio bands; these bands are subdivided into multiple channels. Channels can be shared between networks, but within range only one transmitter can transmit on a channel at a time. Wi-Fi compatible devices can connect to the Internet via a WLAN network and a wireless access point.