 In the year 1947 at a prayer meeting in Delhi, Gandhi ji emphasized the need for water harvesting for irrigational purposes to avoid famines and food shortages. Check dams confirm to Gandhian concept of creating self-sustaining village to regenerate aquifers and increase fresh water resources for agriculture. Considering the limitations of the traditional concrete check dams, ICAR-Indian Institute of Water Management, Bhubaneswar has developed multipurpose rubber dam for watershed to conserved water by impounding water behind the rubber dam, facilitating enhanced groundwater recharge, and quick and safe disposal of sediments. The multipurpose, inflatable, flexi Rubber Dam can store 20-25% additional water in comparison to traditional check dam. 79 Khadin system of runoff farming: Khadin is a low lying area surrounded by an upland catchment and best considered as a runoff farming system in the arid region receiving <300 mm annual rainfall. This is a locally developed and adopted technology where crops can be grown using the conserved moisture. Rainwater that falls on surrounding rocky /gravelly catchments travels through a natural surface drainage system and accumulates in low-lying areas where a topographical barrier or a constructed bund is encountered. These bunds are called khadin bunds, and the transported soils alleviate in the area of water accumulation. With passage of time, the entire alleviated soils form a khadin. At the approach of winter season when water recedes, people cultivate rabi crops like wheat, mustard and gram on such conserved moisture in the khadins. Traditionally, khadin system was designed and developed by the Paliwal Brahmins of Jaisalmer (Rajasthan) in 15th century. Central Arid Zone Research Institute (CAZRI), Jodhpur played an important role in an improved version of khadin for western region of the Indian Thar Desert. More than 500 khadins exist in this region. Rubber dam at Chandeswar-I, Khurda, Odisha Satellite view of Roopsi and other khadins filled up with rainwater Field photo of Traditional Roopsi khadin at Jaisalmer) The khadin system is based on the principle of harvesting rainwater on farmland, and use of residual moisture for crops production. The ratio between cultivated and catchment areas varies from 1:15 to 1:56. The water holding capacity and water infiltration, rates are balanced by the shallow depth of soils in the beds. The basement of khadin is invariably a hard surface upon which sand-silt-clay tend to accumulate up to few meters depth. This maintains a convenient supply of natural moisture and nutrients within the crop’s root zone. Few wells are generally kept on down side of earthen bund; they are recharged from water in khadin and the water is used during summer months when khadin bed dries. Khadin soils are more fertile compared to other desert soils.