 l Hisar Latit, a tomato variety showing resistance against root-knot nematode, when transplanted in solarized field reduced root-knot index. l In Kerala, crow-pheasant (Centropus sinensis) proved potential biocontrol agent against stem-borer of cardamom. l Accomplished for the first time breeding of bank myna in artificial nest- boxes at open-wells of agricultural habitats. Placement of poison bait in wheat-crop fields INTEGRATED RODENT MANAGEMENT l Two crown baitings with Bromadiolone cakes in coconut, one in January and the other after 30 days, have been recommended for managing rodents in coconut (success rate 82.5%). l A collar of GI sheet when put on mango stems yields fairly good success in protecting fruits from squirrel’s damage. l Two applications of Bromadiolone (wax block) at 10 g/burrow (i) at flowering and (ii) at pod maturity stage gave significant rodent control in groundnut. l Regular trappings, fumigation, weeding and burrow baiting with Bromadiolone (0.005%) may be integrated for management of pest- rodents in tomato in Himachal Pradesh. RODENT MANAGEMENT Use of parasites. Infector of Trypanosoma ivansi, a highly pathogenic protozoan, DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 50 JOJOBA SEED-CAKE REPELS TATERA INDICA Jojoba (Simmondsia chinensis) seed-cake powder possessed repellent/deterrent effect on Tatera indica. Laboratory trials indicated that Indian gerbils avoided jojoba seed-cakes at 50, 75 and 100% concentrations in baits, and under no choice died of hunger. At 10–15%, gerbils recorded some consumption of treated baits (as forced feeding) but lost 12.0– 28.2% body weight within a week of exposure. T. indica showed almost negligible intake of treated bait when exposed in the presence of plain baits (choice test). The consumption of treated bait was 0.54–1.21 g/100 g body weight, which was significantly lower than that of plain bait (5.64–9.13 g/100 body weight). NEWER MOLECULES OF ACARICIDES In Coimbatore, newer molecules of acaricides like fenpyroximate, bifenthrin, diafenthiuron and buprofezin offered better protection (76–93% reduction) against rose spidermites. These and fenazaquin were able to control chilli mite up to 92% in 15 days period and thus better fruit yields of chilli were obtained in Bangalore, Kalyani (also on commercial jute), Navasari and Coimbatore. These acaricides are also found effective against spidermites on brinjal and okra, and resulted in 80% reduction in mite population in 9–12 days in Ludhiana. proved lethal to Bandicota bengalensis and Rattus rattus. The parasite showed two peaks of parasitaemia, and no test rodent survived after second peak. Infected rodents showed weakness, sluggishness, depression and posterior paralysis. Laboratory evaluation of rodenticides. Coumatetralyl (Racumin paste), a new, multiple dose anticoagulant rodenticide, yielded 70 and 90% mortality of test rodents when exposed for 8 and 10 days. The formulatioin was less palatable.