 Hon’ble AM announced the operationalization of BRICS-ARP prepared by India to intensify cooperation in agricultural research, technology, innovations and capacity building ICAR represented in series of CGIAR System Council Meeting held during 2019-21 to discuss and develop the mechanism for One CG System. Hon’ble President of India dedicated Advanced Centre for Agricultural Research and Education established by ICAR to the People of Myanmar on 12th December 2018 in presence of Minister of Agriculture, Livestock and Irrigation and Minister of Education, Government of Myanmar. The Hon’ble President also unveiled India- Myanmar Friendship Plaque, and interacted with the students and faculty of ACARE The MoUs signed with AVRDC (World Vegetable Centre), Taiwan; International Centre for Bamboo Research, China, and Heinrich-Heine University, Germany and Asia Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutes (APAARI), Bangkok for International Cooperation with international agencies and Universities were signed. M. National Collaborations ICAR signed MoUs with prominent scientific organizations such as CSIR, ICMR, ICFRE, DBT and IIT (Delhi) to break the silos in frontline research and advance the inter-departmental research in frontier areas. Under DG, ICAR signing MoU with Heinrich-Heine University, Germany Hon’ble President of India inaugurating the ACARE on 12 December 2018 in Myanmar DARE-ICAR SIGNIFICANT ACHIEVEMENTS 2014-2021 50 these MoUs with premier national organizations, the Joint Working Groups (JWGs) and Steering Committees were formed and new joint research projects initiated. ICAR also signed Umbrella MoUs with 34 Agricultural Universities/CAUs to implement sponsored and collaborative programmes. To strengthen the outreach, 5 MoUs were signed with national organizations such as MANAGE, Hyderabad, NABARD, Mumbai; ASCI, Hyderabad, ICICI Foundation, Patanjali Bio Research Institute (PBRI), Haridwar and IFFCO Ltd., New Delhi. For convergence with the schemes and programmes of the Central Ministries and Departments, the MoUs were signed with MoFPI, MoRD, MSME, Common Service Centre under MeitY and National Cooperatives Development Corporation (NCDC) under Ministry of Cooperation. N. Human Resource Management In order to strengthen the human resource management in the NAREES, a dedicated unit of Human Resource Management was established in ICAR in 2014. Subsequently, ICAR HRM Policy: Training and Capacity Building was put in place in 2017 in sync with National Training Policy-2012. Since 2014, 473 new specialized programmes organised and 6433 employees trained under various categories of which 75.9% participants availed the the training for the first-time as freshers or after assuming specific charge. On an average 3338 employees of all categories trained annually during 2014-21 as compared to 2409 during 2013-14. Interestingly, compared to 2013-14, ICAR-Institutes organized 45.0 and 965.