 A modular storage system for onion of 1 tonne capacity costing ` 16,000 with sensor network (excluding blower) and an infrared preteatment system for pulse milling to reduce milling energy and time were developed during the period. A rapid and easy method of aflatoxin detection, a serious threat to food safety, using Vis-NIR hyperspectral imaging of maize has been tested. Paper strip assay, developed for pesticide residues in milk, is cost effective and gives result in real time compared to chromatographic techniques. The technology can be applied successfully to screen water, milk (raw, pasteurized, dried), processed fruit juices, cereal based foods, feed, fodder, fermented feed, soil, water in dairy farm for different pesticide groups complying codex/ FSSAI regulatory limits. An anti-hypertensive nutraceutical (CadalminTM AHe) was developed from seaweed to combat patho-physiology related to hypertension. Analytical methods for determination of contaminants in fish and fishery products, a high-throughput method for species authentication of commercially important shrimps, a prototype of portable fish freshness sensor for mackerel and transport system for live fish were developed and tested. In addition numerous high value products from different crops/commodities were also developed. The Meat speciation laboratory of ICAR-NRC on Meat, Hyderabad, was accredited by National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories and awarded with ISO/IEC 17025:2005 certificate. Strip based test for detection of urea, glucose, sucrose and colour based test for rapid detection of detergent in milk; anionic mineral mixture for reducing post-partum problems in cattle and buffaloes; spore based kit for detection of antibiotic residues in milk at dairy farm; technology of sour dahi using prolific acidifying lactic cultures; process technology for palada payasam mix preparation by dry crystallization method in a mechanical unit and design of mechanized system/ machines for makhana poping were licensed to different private companies for commercialization. Agricultural education: Quality assurance of Agricultural Universities was ensured through accreditation and ranking of the AUs. Fifteen programmes supported under Niche Area of Excellence including seven new programmes were sanctioned. Libraries were strengthened with e-books/print books in various disciplines. New experiential learning modules (24) were supported under student READY component. Financial support was also provided for strengthening, renovation and modernization of student hostels, laboratories, examination halls, smart classrooms.