 Wires are fixed 5-6 feet above the ground. The twine of each plant is alternatively tied to the horizontal overhead wires running along the length of the rows. The base of the twine (string) is anchored loosely to the base of the stem with a non-slip noose. Pruning is required to remove or restrict unwanted growth and to promote flower and fruit production. It also facilitates better light penetration throughout the leaf canopy for more efficient photosynthesis and fruits exposed to light are dark green in colour and attractive. Flowering and pollination It starts flowering after 41-45 days of sowing and anthesis occurs during 8-10 am in the morning. Being a monoecious crop, it requires hand-pollination during the anthesis or bee pollination can be facilitated inside big size protected structure. One person can pollinate approximately 50-60 flowers per hour. Fruit harvesting and yield The fruits are ready for harvesting after 8-12 days of pollination. Summer crop under net-house can be harvested after 20 to 25 days of transplanting and after 30-35 days in winter under polyhouse condition. The total crop duration is 4-5 months under protected structure and fruiting period is about 2.5 to 3 months. The fruits are picked up manually and picking is done on alternate day. Harvested fruits must be protected from desiccation and bruising because the skin is very tender. After harvesting fruits are graded according to size, shape and colour of the fruits, and packed and marketed. The average yield is 4.50 q/100 sqm insect proof net-house and 4.00 q/100 sqm poly-house. Crop protection Protected structures are designed in such a way to restrict and minimize or eliminate most of the insects by use of the nets of 40 to 50 mesh size and polycarbonate sheets (which is usually U.V. stabilized). Foliar application of Imidacloprid (0.03%) after transplanting is effective to control major insects in bitter gourd. Spraying with Karathane or Bavistin @ 2 g/litre of water is effective to control powdery mildew. Bitter gourd is also sometimes infested with watermelon potyvirus, cucumber green mottle virus (both transmitted by white fly), and bitter gourd mosaic virus (transmitted by aphid). Uprooting and destruction of affected plants and collateral hosts is a common means of control. The whitefly can be controlled by spraining Carbaryl 50WP @2 ml/l of water or Spinosid @1 ml/4 l of water. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Tusar Kanti Behera (Director) ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: tusar@rediffmail.com Table 4. (Concluded) Fruits of Pusa Rasdar May–June 2023 9 T HE variety Bidhan Suphala (BCB-40) has been developed through hybridization and selection in segregating generations from a cross between Bidhan Supreme (BCB-11) and Punjab Sadabahar. It is an early maturing variety, semi prostrate in growth habit, spineless in all plant parts, and grows up to a height of 90 cm.