 Varieties Quinoa is recently introduced in India and research has been initiated to develop high yielding varieties for different regions. At present land races having different seed colours like black, red, pink, orange, yellow, or white are available for cultivation. The seed colour is due to presence of the alkaloid saponin which has several medicinal properties. Crop establishment Direct dry seeding is a common method of crop establishment. However, it can be substituted by transplanting of 20–25 days old seedlings in main field. Sowing of seeds by small hand operated seeder or manual method ensures uniform seed distribution and better crop growth. Line sowing of seeds on beds adopting broad bed and furrow method helps in better emergence of seedlings and optimum plant population than sowing on flat beds. Seeds should be sown at a shallow depth of 1–2 cm in a homogeneous, fine-structured and moist seed bed. Since seeds are very small, it is better to mix the seeds with a similar volume of dry sand for uniform distribution of seeds. Seed rate, seed treatment and optimum crop geometry Sowing is one of the most important activities, because the emergence of seedlings impacts plant density and final yields. Optimum seed rate is 15–20 kg seed per hectare. Seeds should be treated with Trichoderma dust formulation @10 g/kg before sowing. Seed treatment with this biopesticide is useful in avoiding seed borne and some soil borne diseases in an eco-friendly way. A row to row spacing of 25–30 cm and plant to plant spacing of 10–15 cm ensures optimum plant population for high yield. Excess plant population should be thinned out at early stage of crop growth, preferably within 20 days of germination. Thinned out seedlings can be used as very good green vegetable. In case of surplus, it can be used as fodder. Optimum sowing time Mid-October to mid-November is the optimum sowing time of quinoa in eastern India. This sowing time is similar to sowing time of other cool season crops like toria, mustard, wheat, pea, gram, etc. Delay in sowing reduces the crop growing period and adversely affects the yield attributes and grain yield in quinoa. Nutrient management The crop requires well decomposed FYM @5–10 tonnes/ha which should be applied 10–15 days before sowing during final land preparation. Blanket application of fertilizers at 120 kg N, 50 kg P2O5 and 50 kg K2O /ha in the form of urea, single super phosphate and muriate of potash is recommended for optimum production of quinoa under irrigated ecology. Entire dose of P, K and ½ of N should be applied as basal and remaining ½ dose of N in two equal splits at 20–25 and 45–50 days after sowing. Water management Quinoa is a drought tolerant crop with water requirement of 250–325 mm. The crop responds well to irrigation in light textured sandy- loam or loamy-sand soils. The crop coefficient of quinoa varies from 0.5 in the initial growth stage, 1.0 in the mid-season stage and 0.7 at harvest.