 However, self-medication reported by the respondents was 11 % which was lower than the find­ ings from previously published studies in India which indicated the need for continued efforts to promote responsible antibiotic use among the population [30–32]. The majority of dairy and non-dairy products consumed in the village were market purchased. Hence, consumers may not know if the products were exposed to any pesticide or antibiotic. Further, it was reported that the major crops were exposed to pesticides. This is crucial to highlight here because the existing evidence suggests widespread contamination of dairy and agricultural produce with pesticide residues [33,34] as well as the risk of development of pesticides-induced AMR, a major public health concern [35–37]. Our study aligns with a review conducted on AMR in rural settings in Latin America which identified human activities, farm animals, and envi­ ronmental factors as significant contributors to AMR, highlighting the need for One Health approach to combat AMR effectively [38]. The challenges in our study regarding antibiotic use, environmental impact, and medication compliance highlight the need for the intro­ duction of collaborative action and the adoption of holistic One Health practice. As suggested by recent research in West Africa, the success of One Health initiatives relies on engaging various stakeholders, including veterinarians, human doctors, sociologists, environmentalists, and most importantly, the local community members. It also highlights the critical role of orientation and education of people on healthy animal husbandry practices in rural settings, where communities are closely intertwined with their livestock and environments [39]. Our study highlights the importance of One Health in addressing health challenges. Globally, initiatives like the U.K.’s targeted antibiotic resistance program and Denmark’s DANMAP antibiotic resistance monitoring system which collects and analyzes samples from humans, food, and animals separately, provide valuable insights into the dynamics of antibiotic resistance across sectors [40,41]. The Tanzanian government is also actively addressing the AMR problem through the implementation of the National Action Plan on Antimicrobial Resistance under a One Health framework (Tanzanian National Action Plan) [42]. In India, under the National Action Plan on Antimicrobial Resistance, the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) has established an Antimicrobial Resistance Surveillance Research Network (AMRSN) which is currently limited to AMR in humans and inclusion of animals, the environment, and food samples, aligning with a One Health approach, is still in pipeline. A comprehensive approach to antibiotic use data is lacking in existing Indian surveillance systems.