com Keeping this in view, Dr Y. S. R. Horticultural University has developed 13 varieties/hybrids with high yield potential and resistance/tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses with good quality were approved by Central Variety Release Committee and notified vide CG- DL-E-08042021-226407 - part II- Section 3 - Sub section (ii)) Dated: 07.04.2021 by Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Govt. of India. Dr Y. S. R. Horticultural November–December 2021 35 A fter a couple of weeks of intensive studying and research over agricultural sector in India as well as the best practices across the world, they decided to adopt protected cultivation technology and to install a polyhouse at their agriculture land in Delhi. After facing difficulties regarding information and work experience about this vast and heavily undermined sector, they eventually ended up at ‘Centre for Protected Cultivation Technology, ICAR- Indian Agricultural Research Institute, Pusa, New Delhi’ where Dr P. K. Singh and his team, not only appreciated their thought of going in the noble trade of agriculture but also shared his vast knowledge and expertise about the same. After months of hardwork and extensive research, they were able to get a greenhouse installed in 2.25 acres in January 2018. They sowed their first crop of ‘Parthenocarpic cucumber’ in their polyhouse on 2nd February 2018; raised the crop using all good agricultural practices and fruit harvesting of which began on 17th March 2018 and lasted till 3rd June 2018. This was the time of happiness for families to realize the fruits of hard work done by Vishal and Vaibhav. During the course of P K Singh*, M C Singh, Neelam Patel, D P Singh and Ramesh Kumar Success story From Engineering to Protected horticulture The venture began from a small discussion over benefits of water saving ‘Drip Irrigation’ and ‘Good Agricultural Practices’ (GAP) which eventually inspired Vishal Shaukeen (B.Tech, Electrical and Electronics) and Vaibhav Rana (B.Tech, Information Technology) to start a farm of their own under support and guidance of Mr Prem Prakash Shaukeen (M.Sc., Vegetable Science, CCSHAU, Hisar), and named as Kinder polyfarms. the harvest, on the advice of Dr Singh, they explored various other marketing channels for their produce. Beginning from the wholesalers and commission agents at the Azadpur Mandi, Delhi, the bulk sale of the produce shifted to the procurement centres of various reputed food supply companies like Reliance Fresh, Big Basket, Safal (Mother Dairy), More Megastore, Spencers, etc. in the vicinity of their farm. By doing so, they saved greatly on transportation from farm to mandi as well as cut out the entire share of commission agents in selling their produce. To further supplement their income, they did not waste any time and utilized the remaining land to grow multiple other crops that fetched a high price even in the wholesale market.