 -- -- -- -- 90 % Percentage of outstanding ATRS disposed off during the year. Early disposal of pending ATRs on PAC Reports presented to Parliament before 31.3.2011 -- -- -- * Mandatory Objective(s) page : 12 of 16 Section 4: Description and Definition of Success Indicators and Proposed Measurement Methodology (2011-2012) Results Framework Document (RFD) for Department Of Agricultural Research & Education Objective 1. Strengthening frontier research in identified areas/programs and quality seed production With respect to strengthening frontier research in identified areas; initiation of new facilities/ institutions, human resource development addressing emerging issues are important criteria for promoting research and education. Performance monitoring for quality of students/ publications are indicators. Developing high yielding varieties, requiring less input like fertilizers, water and pesticides and having tolerance to biotic and abiotic stresses are important. The genetic diversity of various horticultural crops will be collected from different eco-regions, characterized and utilized to develop varieties for higher yield, quality and biotic and abiotic stresses. The productivity of various horticultural crops will be improved for food, nutritional, ecological security. The action points/success production of quality seeds and planting materials as well as development of value added products. Objective 2. Assessment, evaluation and conservation of plant , fish and animal genetic resources With respect to conservation of genetic resources for sustainable use, it is envisaged to conserve plant, microbe genetic resources in the repository, evaluation and further utilization of resources for improving yield in a sustainable manner. Evaluation, characterization and registration will involve development of phenotypic descriptors with supportive data on. Its production parameters with photographic evidence / proofs through NGOs /SAUs/ State Departments, etc. The registration will involve a denoted departmental procedure and thereby allotment of accession number. The in situ conservation will be indicated by establishment of herds / flocks in the natural habitat of the breed with specified minimum number of breeding population and their followers involving farmers, NGOs and other development agencies whereas the ex situ conservation will be in the form of cryopreservation of semen / DNA / somatic cells/embryos. To enhance fish production and productivity on a sustainable basis from the available resources, and to address the issues and strategies to overcome the critical research gaps in realizing the full production potential from fisheries and aquaculture sector, the research activities have been consolidated. It is expected that by undertaking these programmes, there would be an increase in fish production, conservation of resources, more opportunities for livelihood and employment generation.