 The aim of the project is to generate employment, ensure sustainable income and further develop agriculture and allied activities in rural areas. Student READY (Rural Entrepreneur- ship Awareness Development Yojana) programme initiated by the ICAR aims to provide rural entrepreneurship awareness, practical experience in real- life situation in rural agriculture and creating awareness to undergraduate students about practical agriculture and allied sciences. Start-up India a Ministry of Commerce and Industry initiative intends to build a strong ecosystem conducive for the 117 Agricultural Education and Agripreneurship growth of start-up businesses, to drive sustainable economic growth and to generate large scale employment opportunities. Stand-up India initiated by the Department of Financial Services (DFS) is for encouraging youth from scheduled caste and scheduled tribes to become entrepreneurs. The objective of the Stand-Up India scheme is to facilitate bank loans between 10 lakh and 1 Crore to at least one Scheduled Caste (SC) or Scheduled Tribe (ST) borrower and at least one-woman borrower per bank branch for setting-up a Greenfield Project. National Skill Development Mission has been launched for creating convergence across various sectors and different states with respect to activities relating to skills training. Make in India-Ministry of Commerce and Industry, aims to provide Indian consumers access to quality goods at competitive prices. Skill India Mission –Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepreneurship initiative chief objective is to empower the youth of the country with adequate skill-sets that would enable their employment in relevant sectors and also improve productivity. Pradhan Mantri Kaushal Vikas Yojana (PMKVY) initiative by the Ministry of Skill Development and Entrepre- neurship is to provide country’s youth training for meaningful industry- relevant skills. PM-YUVA-(Yuva Udyamita Vikas Abhiyan) is a centrally-sponsored scheme related to entrepreneurship, education and training for youth (both men and women). But the youth are not aware of all these initiatives, so creating awareness will help in attracting youth towards agriculture. Hence, the future strategy should be to motivate the youth to become job- providers rather than remaining job- seekers This can be achieved only when required knowledge and education, technical skills, sustained encouragement and the enabling policy environment are provided. In addition, the required policies, incentives and rewards need to be put in place to attract young talents to undertake innovative farming, which is profitable and sustainable and also respectable. Future Road Map Creation of a separate ‘Department of Youth in Agriculture’ To start a ‘National Mission on Youth in Agriculture’; under this mission youth can be encouraged to set-up Agri-Clinics and Custom-hire Service Centres to help farmers.