 Insects cause direct damage to leaves and tubers, and indirect damage by transmitting the viruses; which reduces both quality and yield of potato. The major insect pests attacking potato are aphids, whiteflies, leaf hoppers, thrips, white grubs, cutworms, potato tuber moth and mites. These insect pests can efficiently be managed by the methods described in this article. Aphids, Myzus persicae (Sulzer) (Hemiptera: Aphididae) Economic importance: Aphids are phloem sucking insect pests which are economically important in potato primarily because of their role as virus vectors although they can cause direct plant damage at high densities. Both nymphs and adults suck the sap from the underside of leaves and shoots. The potato crop in India is infested by more than 10 aphid species. Among these aphids, M. persicae and A. gossypii are most common and predominant vectors of potato viruses like Potato virus Y (PVY), Potato leaf roll viruses (PLRV), Potato virus A (PVA), Potato virus M (PVM), Potato virus S (PVS) and transmit them to healthy plants in the field. Biology: M. persicae is a small tiny insect with complex life cycle, and is known to have primary and secondary hosts. The primary host in India is peach. In temperate regions, many aphids produce eggs to survive during winters. In spring, eggs hatch and the aphids migrate to secondary, summer host plants. In subtropical conditions, aphids reproduce through parthenogenesis for several generations. One adult female can give birth to 20-50 nymphs that can mature in 14 to 21 days under summer conditions. Over-crowding coupled with high temperature and low humidity results in appearance of alates for migration. The winged aphids move from hot plains to temperate hills which is evident from high peak of aphids during February and March at Shimla almost coinciding with time of appearance of winged aphids in plains. M a n a g e m e n t : Use of yellow sticky traps/yellow funnel traps @ 5-10/ha traps early appearing aphid population and prevent their further buildup. After appearance of aphids, two sprays of imidacloprid 17.8% SL @ 0.03% may be repeated at an interval of 12-15 days depending on duration of the crop and level of infestation. Application of horticultural mineral oil @ 1- 3% successfully protects potato plants from aphids and aphid transmitted potato viruses by affecting the biology, physiology and feeding of aphids, and also makes the potato plants less attractive to aphids. Conservation of natural enemies like coccinellids, syrphids, chrysopids and parasitoids etc. can help in managing the aphid populations. Whiteflies, Bemisia tabaci (Gennadius) (Hemiptera: Aleurodidae) Economic importance: Whiteflies are small white- coloured sucking insects that inject toxic saliva into the host plants, which is associated with virus transmission. Bemisia tabaci is a pest of more than 600 host plants including vegetables, fibre crops, spices, ornamental plants, and weed plant species. B.