 INTEGRATED NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT Integrated management of nutrients and water through fertigation has shown consistently good response to yield and quality. Rootstocks showed a significant influence on leaf nutrient composition of scion and various fruit quality indices like fruit weight, firmness, peel thickness, juice content, acidity, total soluble solids and their ratio. Optimum stress at 3.3–3.7 MPa was observed to be critical from the point of veiw of induction of flowering in Nagpur mandarins.Growth retardants such as CCC (double spray at 2000 ppm) and paclobutrazol (18 g/plant) were found highly efficient in induction of hasta bahar (September bloom) in acid lime. Black polyethylene (100 µ) was extremely effective in reducing evaporation loss and weed growth which in turn imparted a favourable response to growth of plants. l Micropropagation through shoot bud culture in guava has been standard- ized. l Seventeen new grape accessions have been added to germplasm. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 56 Rootstocks can be used under the conditions of saline soil, alkali soils, drought, poor nutrient uptake and improving quality and quantity of produce. In India, most commonly used rootstock in grape is popularly known as Dogridge. Based on different sources of this rootstock, i.e. one from University of California, Davis, and the second type from collection at IIHR, Bangalore, these two types of Dogridge rootstocks were named as American Dogridge (Dogridge A) and Bangalore Dogridge (Dogridge B) respectively. The variation has been noticed with regard to morphological characters and performance of this rootstock. At Pune, variation in performance of Tas-A-Ganesh grafted on two types of rootstock revealed that Dogridge B rootstock imparted more vigour to Tas-A-Ganesh in terms of total shoot length, pruning weight and leaf size as compared to Dogridge A. As a result, new vineyards are being established on rootstocks and there is a great demand for the genuine rootstock material. A rootstock nursery has been developed for a large- scale multiplication of rootstocks with an annual capacity of producing one lakh rooted plants of Dogridge B in polybags to supply to growers. The fertilizer application could be reduced to 40% of the recommended dose without affecting yield and quality by application of NPK through fertigation. Water stress at bud differentiation and berry setting and at shattering stage did not have adverse effect on yield and quality. Water-use efficiency could be increased up to 53% by newer water scheduling technique. At Bangalore, fertigation trials with Anab-e-Shahi and Thompson Seedless grapes showed that fertigation with 75% of the recommended dose of fertilizer recorded higher bunch number and yield which was at par with 100% of the recommended dose of fertilizer. The GA application in pH range of 6.5–7.0 increased berry diameter and crispness as compared to its application at pH 7.5.