 Brown rice Parboiled rice Parboiled polished cooked Parboiled polished fermented Swarna T1-9-1 T1-11-3 T1-3-1 T1-7-1 T9-1-1 T1-16-1 a) Labelling of panicles of each genotype according to flowering date in the field; (b) Field protocol (Lodging treatment: field protocol); (c) Laboratory protocol. Identification of High Resistant Starch Rice Starch is one of the primary nutrient and a key factor for determining rice grain quality. Based on its digestive properties, starch can be categorized into three groups: rapidly digestible starch, slowly digestible starch, and resistant starch. Resistant starch is not digested in the upper gastrointestinal tract and thus reaches the colon where it is fermented by microbiota to release acetate and propionate (short-chain fatty acids) which affect glucose and cholesterol metabolism in human. Resistant starch plays a crucial role in the reduction of postprandial blood glucose response which ultimately lowers the risk of obesity, insulin sensitivity thereby help combat type-II diabetes and chronic kidney diseases. Higher content of resistant starch facilitates s lower digestion and ultimately blood sugar level is suppressed. Therefore, identification of high resistant starch rice could be a key player for dietary intervention to reduce starch digestibility and Glycemic index. In this context, 100 rice lines were estimated for resistant starch variation, variation was observed ranging from 0.28% to 2.94%. Among them Gayatri was found to have the highest resistant starch content of 2.94% over the years (2019 to 2022). Thus, Gayatri is expected to be useful for diabetics and the health-conscious people. cooked rice contains more PB-1 than others whereas in brown rice, parboiled rice and parboiled fermented rice, the PB-1 and PB-2 are present in scattered manner. It was also seen that the starch granules become spherical in shape after cooking due to the effect of reorientation of starch chains, gelatinization and retrogradation. The innermost endosperm layer was compact without intracellular voids. The endosperm layer was highly organized by polyhedral or spherical starch granule (SG) and ellipsoidal/spherical protein bodies (PB). Starch granules tightly clustered into compound starch granule. These SG were surrounded by protein body. But in case of the rice variety Naveen, the protein bodies were present less frequently than CR Dhan 310, however the starch granules are present as polyhedral shaped. Standardization of effective screening protocol for vivipary/pre-harvest sprouting in rice genotypes: The main objective of the study was to standardize an efficient evaluation method for identifying genotypic differences in viviparity. For standardization, two screening protocols i) field conditions and ii) laboratory (a) (b) (c) PB2 PB1 PB1 SSG CW PB1 PB1 PB2 Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 58 conditions were tested with 26 diverse rice genotypes.