 In 1976- 77, the Planning Commission approved the proposal of the ICAR to establish 18 KVKs during the Fifth Five Year Plan. With the growing demand for more such KVKs, the Governing Body (GB) of the ICAR approved 12 more KVKs in 1979 and they were established in the same year from Agricultural Produce Cess Fund (AP Cess Fund). Pending the clearance of Sixth Five -Year Plan scheme on KVK by the Planning Commission, the GB of the ICAR again approved 14 KVKs in 1981, which were established during 1982--83 from AP Cess Fund. A High Level Evaluation Committee on KVK constituted by the ICAR in 1984, after thorough review of the programme, strongly recommended for establishment of more KVKs in the country. Keeping this in view the Planning Commission approved to establish 44 new KVKs during the Sixth Plan. Thus by the end of Sixth Plan, 89 KVKs had started functioning in the country. During the Seventh Plan, 20 new KVKs were established. The success of KVKs at many locations created a great demand for establishment of more KVKs in the remaining districts of the country. Accordingly, the Planning Commission further approved 74 new KVKs to be established during the period 1992-93. Again in the Eighth Plan (1992-97), 78 new KVKs were approved and the same were established in the country, making the total number of functional KVKs 261 by the end of the Eighth Plan. The number of KVKs increased to 290 during Ninth Plan with the establishment of 29 more KVKS. On the occasion of the Independence Day Speech on 15th August, 2005 the Hon’ble Prime Minister of India announced that by the end of 2007 there should be one KVK in each of the rural districts of the country. This has taken the total number of KVKs to 551 at the end of Tenth Plan. 2. Genesis and Growth 66 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK At present there are 630 KVKs, which include 428 under SAU and CAU, 51 under ICAR Institute, 99 under NGOs, 35 under State Governments, and the remaining 17 under OEIs. (Appendix- XXXI) All KVKs are working towards reducing the time lag between generation of technology at the research institution and its application in location specific farmer fields for increasing production, productivity and net farm income on a sustained basis. Agricultural diversification is the key issue today for ensuring food and nutritional security. Hence there is a need to move from a crop based approach to a farming system based approach with farm, crop, resource, livestock and region specific technological solutions. In fact, crop and livestock have co-evolved and co-existed and land is a basic factor for production of both. All land based husbandries could contribute to agriculture, therefore a long-term view will have to be taken to harness the resources viz., soil, plant, nutrient, bio-resources, livestock, etc.