 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3574 Preparation of jonna ambali 3575 Preparation of jonna peelaalu laddu 3576 Preparation of jonna malida of Pasighat area of district, East Siang (Arunchal Pradesh) are in habit of taking this chutney since age-old times. Keywords: chamkong, chutney, chilli, salt, garlic Jonna ambali is a nutritious food that helps in purifying the blood, as it is prepared using jaggery, which is rich in iron content. For its preparation, at first 2 litres of water is boiled and 100 g roasted and ground aniseed and peanut powder are added to it. Then 500 g sorghum flour is slowly mixed to boiling water while stirring. Then 500 g jaggery is mixed with 1 litre water and is added to the boiling sorghum. It is boiled for some more time and jonna ambali is ready. Every 100 g jaggery contains 0.4 g protein and 0.08 g iron. Keywords: Jonna ambali, jaggery, sorghum, aniseed Jonna peelaalu laddu is prepared by making 750 g jaggery syrup and 1 kg sorghum corn with a little cardamom powder. Then the mixture is heated. Some oil is applied to palms and the mixture is made into round balls. Children love this dish a lot. Keywords: jonna peelaalu laddu, cardamom, syrup Jonna malida is very nutritious food, as ghee and other dry fruits are used in its preparation. Soft dough is kneaded with sorghum flour and thin chapaties are made. The chapaties are crushed into tiny bits. Then 50 g dry coconut, 100 g fried peanuts, 25 g aniseed, 100 g puffed chickpea, cardamom and 500 g jaggery are powdered and mixed with the crushed chapaties along with Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content ETHNIC FOOD Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of No. the discloser/facilitator 100 g ghee. Keywords: jonna malida,chapati 3577 Preparation of sajja ambali Sajja ambali is a nutritious food that Deccan Development helps in purifying the blood, as it is Society, Pasthapur, prepared using jaggery, which is rich Zaheerabad (M), district in iron content. For its preparation 2 Medak litres of water is boiled with 50 g (Andhra Pradesh) 3578 Preparation of sajja nune pole roasted and ground aniseed and 100 g peanut powder. Later 500 g pearlmillet flour is slowly mixed to the boiling water while stirring. Then 500 g jaggery is boiled with 1 litre water and is added to the boiling pearlmillet. It is boiled for some more time. Keywords: sajja ambali, aniseed, jaggery Sajja nune pole is made by melting 500 g jaggery to thick consistency. Then 1 kg pearlmillet flour is added to it. Afterwards 25 g aniseed, 25 g poppy seeds and 4 cardamoms are added. Small balls of the dough are made and are pressed and deep fried in oil.