 Recent years have shown high growth of registered GIs in the country. From 2004 to 2014, the total number of agricultural GIs registered in India was 47, but from 2014 to 2016, the number increased to 80. This signiﬁcant rise points towards a policy shift for identifying, encouraging, and applying for more GIs by state govern- ments. Table 5 shows the HS6 product lines within the broader category of live trees, vegetables, fruits, plantation crops, cereals, oilseeds and medicinal plants, and vegetable products. Plantation crops, fruits, and vegetables account for most of the product lines with a GI tag. Speciﬁcally, plan- tation crops have 47 HS6 product lines with a GI tag, whereas fruits and cereals account for 34 and 27, respectively. On the other hand, vegetables and vegetable products together form only eight product lines with a GI tag. Table 6 shows how the number of available GIs has increased in different states over the years. The table makes it clear that despite having the maximum number of HS6 product lines with an available GI in 2016, Maharashtra did receive most of the GIs in the last two years of our study period. Karnataka, Kerala, Assam, Tamil Nadu, and Himachal Pradesh received a good number of GIs by 2007. Table 7 provides the concordance of HS2 code with the type of products it is related to. This concordance is administered by the World Customs Organization (WCO). Next, we take the district-wise data of area under various crops from the Agricultural Census of India. The Indian gov- ernment conducts an agricultural census across all the states every ﬁve years. The statistical unit of data collection in the agricultural census is agricultural operational holding. This dataset is publicly available on its website.5 Data on roads and highways are taken from basic road statistics, published by the Government of India every year. Rail length data, for instance, is taken from the data library of the Ministry of Information and Broadcasting. Data on the pendency of cases by courts are taken from the National Crime Records Bureau (NCRB).6 It provides the percentage of cases that have been pending in the respective courts of the states in 2001. We also utilise data on state-level GDP from government websites for 2004. As economic growth, infrastructure, and judicial efﬁciency may respond to the registration of GIs, we use their values in the pre-sample period, that is, 2004 or earlier. This ensures that our hetero- geneity analysis is based on cross-sectional differences across states in these characteristics within the pre-sample period. Further, for our analysis, we provide HS6 codes to the agricultural products registered as GIs. If the GI is available for a crop in a state in a particular year, we assign ‘1’ to our dummy variable ‘GI’; otherwise, we keep it as ‘0’. The regis- try of GI also provides a map of the area, where it is applica- ble.