0/ ) Speciﬁcations Table Subject Area Health, Toxicology and Mutagenesis More Speciﬁc Subject Area Quantifying multiresidual pesticide residues in blood, identifying pesticides exposure biomarkers, measuring acetylcholinesterase activity, and urinary metabolites. Type of Data Tables, Figures, raw ﬁles Data Collection A study in Telangana, India analysed multiresidue pesticide levels in 493 participants from three districts including 15 villages in Telangana by using questionnaires survey Including socio-demographic, pesticide awareness, and symptom related pesticides data and entered into Excel. 341 exposed and 152 control participants were randomly selected, the sample size determined by epi info stat calc (95 % conﬁdence, ±5 % error, assuming 50 % population proportion). Data Source Location The cross-sectional study was carried out in ﬁfteen farming villages across the Yadadri-Bhuvanagiri (17.65 °N, 79.05 °E), Vikarabad (17 °N, 77 °54 °E), and Sangareddy (17.6075 °N, 78.0798 °E) districts of Telangana, India. Sample collection was conducted, and the specimens were subsequently transferred to the National Institute of Nutrition for in-depth analysis of pesticides, DAP metabolites, and the activity of the enzyme AChE activity. Data accessibility Repository name: “Data for publication”, Mendeley Data, V2 Data identiﬁcation number: doi: 10.17632/z526ncz8y3.2 https://data.mendeley.com/datasets/z526ncz8y3/2 Related research article The manuscript supports a related research article by Kumar D, Sinha SN. Chronic exposures to cholinesterase-inhibiting pesticides adversely affects the health of agricultural workers in India. Environ Res. (2024) Apr 18;252(Pt 2):118961. doi: 10.1016/j.envres.2024.118961 [ 1 ]. 1. Value of the Data • Identiﬁcation of multiresidue Pesticides: The data distinguish different pesticides found in blood samples of exposed and control groups, providing insights into pesticide used and ex- posure pattern. • Biomarkers of organophosphate pesticides exposure: Six DAP metabolites are identiﬁed as biomarkers associated with organophosphate pesticides, and health effects. • Novel Approach to Symptom Documentation: The study documents self-reported symptoms before pesticide use, facilitating research into the relationship between chemical exposure and acute symptoms. • AChE Activity as a Biomarker: The data shows the duration of pesticide exposure inﬂuences AChE activity, highlighting its potential as a biomarker for early detection of neurological diseases. 2. Background Agriculture is the primary income source for 70 % of rural households in India [ 2 ]. Unfortu- nately, the excessive use of pesticides poses a signiﬁcant health problem as many farmers due to lack adequate knowledge about safe application practices. Overuse of pesticides by commer- cial farmers, driven by the desire to maximize proﬁts, has led to insuﬃcient awareness of risks, D. Kumar, S.N. Sinha and K. Vasudev et al.