 Further trial at the same centre substantiated the previous year's results with additional finding on the moderate efficacy of the ITK in non- parasitic diarrhoea. Considering non- availability of flowers in different seasons, takala (Cassia tora) plant leaves were assessed for their efficacy against E. coli diarrhoea at CIRG, Makhdoom. The leaf extract showed enough potential as an antidiarhoeal therapy in management of diarrhoea in goats. This may be due to its moderate antibacterial property against E. coli and its astringent action due to presence of tannins and saponins besides flavonoids. □ Test compound Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser : 1968 Wound management in animals by use of leaf extract of ridge gourd (Luffa acutangula) or ekdandi (Tridex procumbens) : This practice is followed by the farmers of semi-arid tract of western Maharashtra especially in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. Ridge gourd or ekdandi leaves are ground and the juice is extracted. The extracted juice is smeared over the wounds of the animal. This practice effectively controls wound in animals due to antiseptic lotion present in ridge gourd and ekdandi leaves. : Shri B.B. Khutal, Solapur (Maharashtra) Location of use of the ITK Experimenters : The practice is found in semi-arid tract of western Maharashtra especifically in parts of Pune, Satara, Solapur and Ahmednagar districts. : Maharashtra Animal Science and Fishery Sciences University (MASFSU) Dr S.N. Patil, Associate Professor, Dr V.S. Panchbhai, Professor, Dr M.S. Dhakate, Associate Professor, Dr B.M. Gahlod, Assistant Professor and Dr S.V. Upadhye, Assistant Professor, Department of Surgery; and Dr A.G. Bhandarkar, Associate Professor, Department of Pathology, Nagpur Veterinary College, Nagppur 440 006 (Maharashtra). Ch. Sarwan Kumar, Krishi Vishwavidyalaya (CSKHPKV) Dr A.C. Varshney, Professor and Head, Dr S.P. Tyagi, Assistant Professor and Dr M.S. Kanwar, Associate Professor, Department of Surgery and Radiology, College of Veterinary and Animal Sciences, Palampur 176 062 (Himachal Pradesh) METHODOLOGY Experiment MASFSU Preparation of juice: The fresh leaves of ridge gourd and ekdandi were collected from the vicinity of Cattle Breeding Farm, Nagpur and adjoining villages of Nagpur district. The leaves of both the plants were washed with distilled water 2 to 3 times and triturated in grinder-cum-mixer separately to form a paste. The paste was squeezed with muslin cloth to obtain juice extract. Preparation of aqueous extract: The fresh leaves of each herb were washed with 0.2% mercuric chloride in distilled water for 2 min. followed by five to six washings with distilled water. Fresh leaf extract, viz.