 Usage of bio-fertilizers, micronutrient mixture, insecticide, bio-pesticide, pheromone traps, tractor drawn seed drill (for groundnut), training of farmers on familiarization and usage of farm equipment, gypsum application (for groundnut) and certified seeds would enhance the production and productivity of oilseed crops considerably. In oilseed crops, seed storage is a problem due to high oil content which can be resolved through treating the seeds with halogen impregnated polymer in ground nut and sesame. Groundnut The average area under groundnut was 4.41 lakh ha with a production of 9.74 lakh tonnes and 2,238 kg/ha of productivity, covering almost 28 districts in Tamil Nadu State. Groundnut is yet another important oilseed crop, and its area and production performance had shown negative growth in majority of the districts. Despite a positive trend in growth of productivity in groundnut was observed in all the 28 districts except Thiruvannamalai. This necessitates the need to formulate appropriate strategy for groundnut to give more thrust on area and increasing productivity in all districts by implementing groundnut mission, integrated production improvement program for oilseeds etc. The compound growth rate of area, production and productivity under groundnut crop in major districts of Tamil Nadu during 2000-01 to 2014-15 is presented in Table 7. Gingelly Gingelly is an important oilseed crop next to groundnut with an area of 58,422 ha, 29,060 tonnes of production and 508 kg/ha of productivity, grown in more than 10 districts of Tamil 505 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Nadu State. The growth rate of area was positive only in two districts namely Pudukkottai and Thanjavur (Table 8). Similarly, the production was positive only in four districts viz., Ariyalur, Karur, Pudukkottai and Thanjavur, and productivity was positive in Ariyalur, Erode, Karur, Pudukkottai, Thanjavur and Thoothukudi districts. Thus, the negative trend in majority of the districts is observed. Therefore, strategic planning must aim at increasing growth trend of area, production and productivity in gingelly through oilseeds mission program, especially in districts like Nagapattinam, Ramanathapuram, Salem and Thiruvarur. Coconut Coconut is grown in 24 districts of the State with an area of 4,00,562 ha, production of 57,028 tonnes and productivity of 14,230 nuts/ha. The growth rate of area, production and productivity was positive in majority of the districts of Tamil Nadu. However, a negative trend in area was observed in districts like Coimbatore, Dharmapuri, Erode, Kancheepuram, Ramanathapuram and Thiruvallur. Similarly, the production was negative in six districts viz., Dharmapuri, Erode, Kancheepuram, Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli, whereas Kanyakumari, Ramanathapuram and Tirunelveli districts recorded negative growth trend for productivity.