 Fertilizer and manure application: To maintain appreciable amount of crude protein (10%) and dry matter production up to 50 t/ha, a fertilizer dose of 224 kg/ha nitrogen (N) is to be applied in every 2 years. For under arid and semiarid conditions, CAM plants are relatively better performing than C3 and C₄ plants. These traits beckon us to explore more production of flat-stemmed Opuntia in arid lands for fodder production. It can be regarded as a low-cost, low-input fodder crop for arid environments. Cactus pear also minimizes the water erosion of soil in arid land. Cactus pear is gaining popularity in low fertile and water deficit regions of the world because of its distinct qualities that enables us to cope with the burgeoning effects of climate change and population pressure. Despite its recent introduction in India, it has shown its ability to reduce green fodder shortages. Nonetheless, a thorough understanding of the yield responses to various agronomic management practices in the field conditions will aid in improving crop output (Table 1). Table 1. Performance of edible cactus in arid and semi-arid region in India Parameter Semi-arid region Arid region Plant height (cm) 42–54 46–63 Areoles/cladode 0.6–1.6 1.1–1.5 Number of cladode/ plant 3.5–4.5 4–5 Length/width ratio 3.1–3.6 1.8–2.8 Survival (%) 87–80 90–100 Cultivation practices Climatic requirements: Being a drought-hardy plant, prickly pear can be cultivated in the regions with scarce and erratic rainfall and limited irrigation water. On an average 300–600 mm rainfall in summer season is most suitable to meet water requirement of the crop. During winter season temperature below 5°C might adversely affect the cactus production. Hot sunny days are highly desirable for the crop. Soil: Sandy and sandy loam soils are best for cactus while it can also thrive on heavy textured soils with adequate drainage and stony-sloppy lands at the foot hills. Prolonged water logging is highly unfavourable for crop establishment and the crop can be planted on any type of soils or on slightly alkaline better yield, about 5 kg farmyard manure/plant can be added. Care: Pruning is done to give proper shape to the plants, to reduce competition for light, and it also improve yield, fruit quality and fruit size. It is done after reaping when crop is in dormant stage. Low hanging leaves, damaged and diseased leaves should be removed first. Pruning of fruits is important and to maintain optimum production, 10–15 fruits may be retained on each cladode. Green fodder yield: The cactus can yield around 40–50 t/ha depending upon agronomic practices. Edible cactus as a green fodder The ability of cactus to store moisture in the tissue during drought conditions and produce fodder, fruit and valuable products, as well as its potential to avoid long- term deterioration of ecologically eroded habitats has spotlighted its significance in arid and semi- arid area.