 From ERI for the period 2021–40 under different climate change scenarios it was observed that due to the increase in temperature, infestations of indigo caterpillars will be more common in the future under all the climate change scenarios, and the occurrence of indigo caterpillars can be observed in different areas where at present the pest is not that significant. Establishment risk index (ERI) of indigo caterpillar under different climate change scenarios during 2021-40 Mean yellow mite infestation trend in farmers’ field of three locations Village-wise fibre yield (q/ha) of jute Monitoring of pesticides in small streams adjacent to paddy fields of Odisha: Small streams situated close to agricultural landscape could be contaminated with pesticides and may hamper the aquatic biodiversity. The highest mean concentration of fenobucarb (272 ng L-1) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 72 CROP MANAGEMENT is an urgent need to develop strategies for reducing the pesticide pollution in small streams and their harmful effects on non-target organisms. Artificial intelligence-based detection of insects, pests and diseases of sugarcane: In order to develop an AI based detection system for insect pests and diseases of sugarcane, >2,500 RGB images of healthy sugarcane plants as well as with injured symptoms of insects, pests, diseases, and physiological disorder symptoms have been captured at ICAR-IISR, Lucknow. Improved agroinoculation method for begomovirus infection in mungbean and urdbean: An efficient and reproducible agroinoculation method for achieving maximum (100%) efficiency using infectious agro-constructs of DNA A and DNA B of MYMIV. Among the various tissues selected for the inoculation on the epicotyl region showed maximum infectivity. Further, to enhance the infectivity of MYMIV, different concentrations of acetosyringone, incubation time and Agrobacterium cell density were also standardized. Pin-pricking on the epicotyls region of detached one cotyledon of sprouted seeds of mungbean and incubated in 1.0 OD of agroculture containing repeat construct of MYMIV for 2-4 hr without acetosyringone followed by sowing in soil showed 100% infection of MYMIV within 10-12 days on the first trifoliate leaf. This standardized method is reproducible and has potential to screen germplasm lines and will be useful in mungbean biological/virological studies and breeding programmes. Leaf damage-based phenotyping technique against fall armyworm (FAW) in maize: A screening technique to identify the resistance source against FAW under artificial infestation has been developed. The technique involves the description of leaf damage rating (LDR) in 1-9 scale by comparing injury levels among maize genotypes.