 y The litchi loopers attack on litchi is normally from August to November with highest population in the month of September-October. y Litchi trees that have been attacked by this pest results in very poor flowering in bearing orchards and retard the growth in young saplings in subsequent season. y When infestation is high, larvae feed voraciously on the lamina of young leaves leaving only the midribs and veins. L e a f c u t t i n g weevils (Myllocerus undecimpustulatus a n d A p o d e r u s blandus) y They used to congregate on the tender leaves and nibble irregular holes on the leaves and sometimes consume the entire leaf leaving the midrib only. y Adult of grey weevils has long snout with grey colour, though poor flier but very active feeder on the leaves of litchi. y Adult of A. blandus are bright brownish red in colour. y The ventral side (abdomen) is looking pale brown, and parts of the mouth and claws are brownish red. y The damage of red weevil is more severe at the time of shoot emergence as it prefers newly leaves therefore; newly established orchard/nurseries are more vulnerable for this pest attack. Litchi stink bug ( T e s s a r a t o m a javanica) y This bug is also a regular pest in all the litchi growing areas in India causing huge economic loss. y The infestation of litchi stink bugs observes throughout the year in litchi orchards but its high number of populations observes in summer season and in moderate to low during the rainy and post rainy season. y The peak activity of the bug is from the last week of April to the last week of August after that it disappears from the orchard and undergoes hibernation in adult stages. y Both adults and nymph suck cell sap mostly on tender plant parts such as growing buds, leaf petioles, fruit stalks and tender branches of litchi tree. y In case of severe infestation, drying of growing buds and tender shoots has been observed resulting into poor fruit set. May–June 2023 55 Management through cultural practices and bagging of fruits bunches Application of 4 kg castor and 1 kg neem cake at root zone after the first shower of monsoon have been proved effective in reducing the pest population. The alternate host such as Kath, Jamun and Chhota Amaltas which harboured the pest during off-season must be collected and destroyed in order to minimize the chance of heavy infestation of the pest in subsequent year. The bagging could be very effective in litchi to reduce pest damage particularly fruit borer. The litchi fruit bunches of cv. Shahi is bagged with white butter paper bag/ Non-woven PP bags (30 gsm) of 500-650 mm × 350- 500 mm (L X W) at 40 days after bloom (40 DAB) which was during 3rd fortnight of April. Bagging has been found very effective in reducing fruit borer infestation (71-77%) through creating a physical barrier and modifying fruit micro-environment. Name of pests Symptoms of damages y In severe attack it leads to heavy fruit dropping and ultimately total damage to the litchi crop.