 These sIgs was used as an antigen to develop monoclonal antibodies. Effective dosage of prebiotic, inulin was determined for development of high health shrimp providing better growth and disease resistance. A dose of 20g/kg inulin coated on the feed showed 22-32% higher growth and prolonged survival to WSSV challenge than control. Expression of immune and growth genes was higher in experimental group. Metagenome analysis indicated higher bacterial diversity in the gut of experimental animal than in control. Bacillus subtilis isolated from the GIT of healthy shrimp was evaluated as probiotic by two methods, either by coating the feed or as one of the feed ingredients. Feed coated with the bacteria showed higher growth and disease resistance. Vaccine against animal’s haemoprotozoan parasites for mitigating biotic stress: Theileriosis is one of the economically important haemoprotozoan diseases of livestock. Proteomic analysis identified 2761 and 1814 specific proteins in Theileria annulata and T. equi with a total of 330 and 203 unique proteins found on bioinformatic analysis. Volcano plot analysis was performed, and proteins up and down regulated during T. annulata and T. equi infection were identified. Some merozoite surface proteins were identified which have specific importance during invasion process of the parasites. These were TAMS-1 and EMA-1, EMA-2 for T. annulata and T. equi respectively. These recombinant proteins were expressed as gst tagged in pGEX-4T 1 vector and purified on glutathione Sepharose beads. Captive breeding of hilsa, Tenualosa Ilisha -Phase II: Developed captive broodstock of hilsa 250 numbers of the size range of 400-600 g, which are being maintained in the freshwater culture facilities at Kolaghat and Rahara; and brackish water systems at Kakdwip of West Bengal. The fishes attained full maturity for the first time in captivity and two breeding attempts were undertaken with captive reared stock but Volcano plot on the proteomic analysis of Theileria annulata parasites indicating up and down regulations of protein during infection. 33 Salient Achievements of the Projects were unsuccessful at post-fertilization stage. Maintaining a stock of another 20 fishes in RAS system in which the males attained maturity. Non-invasive methods of in situ maturity determination technique of both females and males through ultrasonography has been developed for the first time in hilsa. Determined the dose of anesthesia for different life stages and successfully reduced handling stress. Developed feeds for larval, grow-out, and brood stock rearing phases tailoring specific requirements at different growth stages of hilsa. RAS rearing depicted feasibility of complete rearing in controlled facilities. Artificial spawning of hilsa using wild brood stock yielded 95-99 % fertilization and 75-89 % hatching success. The fry to fingerling rearing yielded 85- 99 % survival in FRP tanks.