 Rainfed agriculture occupies almost half of country’s net sown area and accounts for nearly 40 percent of the total food production. Major field crops cultivated in Kharif include cereals (paddy, maize, millets); oilseeds (groundnut, soybean, sesame); pulses (black gram, green gram, pigeon pea, moth bean, cluster bean and horse gram); commercial crops like cotton, sugarcane, spices, 2 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS vegetables and fruit crops. Sustaining pulse production by targeting 25 MT production (2021-22) can be ensured by introducing inter-cropping of pulses with oilseeds, sugarcane, maize, cotton; utilization of bunds for arhar cultivation and judicious use of pesticides for control of insects, pests and diseases. Likewise, targeting 37.6 MT production of oilseed production (2021-22), will require adoption of planting techniques like Broad Bed Furrow (BBF)and Ridge furrow system, availability of seeds of improved varieties, replacement of upland/low yielding paddy area with oilseeds. Impetus to horizontal coverage to oil palm in North Eastern states holds good for improving oil seed production. Therefore, focus will be on rainfed agro-ecosystem which requires holistic planning, prioritization of resources, operationalization of district agricultural contingency plan. If addressed comprehensively can help in sustaining/ enhancing production and productivity of pulses, oilseeds and coarse cereals in the country apart from rice during the ensuing kharif season. Availability of seeds of multiple stress tolerant varieties, fertilizers, pesticides and supplement irrigation will add value to the production scenario. For ensuring the set targets, it is imperative to develop micro- level planning and its implementation at grass root level. To address the issue of malnutrition, ICAR has improved the nutritional quality in 71 high yielding varieties of cereals, pulses, oilseeds, vegetables and fruits using breeding methods. Special efforts are being made to popularize these bio-fortified varieties among masses. Quality seeds of bio-fortified varieties are being produced and made available for commercial cultivation.