 CONCLUSION The extraction of tomato seeds by rice bran method was found more effective as compared  HORTICULTURAL CROPS to other (fermentation method and dilute hydrochloric acid method) methods. As in case of ITK method, the seeds are devoid of hair, the general market preference is greatly affected, although it gives better results regarding seed yield and germination  HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code : 391 Title of the ITK : Lemon juice as a substitute of hydrochloric acid for tomato-seed extraction Description of the ITK : For 100 g manually-extracted wet seed of tomato, lemon juice of 2 fruits is added and is kept for 2_3 hours. Later the seed is washed properly and dried under shade for 4_5 hours. Lemon juice works as a substitute of hydrochloric acid, which results in 100% germination and cost is also low. Almost all the tomato-growing farmers of Benakunda village of Ganjam district in Orissa follow this practice. Tomato seed is extracted by two methods, viz. acid and fermentation methods. In acid method, hydrochloric acid is used, which is very strong, costly and beyond the reach of the poor farmers. It is also hazardous and risky to use. The fermented method takes more time (40_48 hr) and the colour of the seeds is not so good. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Ramesh Chandra Bisoyi, C/o Shri Udayanath Bisoyi, village- Benakunda, Dihapadal, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 Location of use of the ITK : Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam 761 126 (Orissa) Experimenters : Dr A. K. Das, Associate Professor,Department of Horticulture,Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003, Shri N. Nayak, Training Organiser and Dr (Ms) B. P. Mishra, Training Associate, Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Bhanjanagar (Orissa). METHODOLOGY Location The efficacy of lemon juice for extracting tomato seeds was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA), field survey and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal and field survey were done at village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, dist. Ganjam (Orissa) 761 126 and experimental method was conducted at the village Benakunda, Bhanjanagar, Ganjam (Orissa). PRA and field study The PRA and field study were done to determine the performance of lemon juice for extraction of tomato seeds. The survey was done with 15 farmers of village Benakunda in terms of seed colour, seed germination, ease in preparation, time consumption, plant growth, fruit yield and cost effectiveness. Experiment The experiment on extraction of seeds by different methods was carried out at the Department of Horticulture, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Bhubaneshwar with the following three methods: (i) fermentation method, (ii) dilute HCl method and (iii) lemon juice method. Seed extraction by fermentation The ripe tomatofruits were collected and  HORTICULTURAL CROPS weighed. Ten kg fruits were taken for seed extraction per treatment each time.