 Keywords: Alternate cropping systems, Economics, Prevailing cropping systems, Soil indicator A griculture production environ- ment being a dynamic entity has kept evolving continuously. The present phase of changes being encountered by the agricultural sector, such as reducing availability of quality water, nutrient deficiency in soils, climate change, farm energy availability, loss of biodiversity, emergence of new pest and diseases, fragmentation of farm lands and changing consumption pattern coupled with new IPRs and trade regulations regimes are some of the new challenges. The crops and cropping systems with fluctuating behaviour and requirements provide newer challenges as well as opportunity for management to achieve advanced input productivity for water and nutrients. More than 250 double cropping systems are being followed all over the country, amid these 30 cropping systems have been identified for irrigated situations. The prominent systems are considered to be foremost suppliers to the national food basket, viz. rice-wheat (9.85 mha), rice-rice Indian Farming 73 (07): 36-40; July 2023 (5.89 mha) and other coarse grain- based cropping systems like pearl millet-wheat (2.26 mha), maize- wheat (1.86 mha) and pearl millet- mustard (0.94 mha). Out of these systems, the share of rice and wheat together is the highest (65%) to the food grain production, while the rice-wheat system contributes 40% of food grain production. Agronomic research towards on-farm and off farm with these systems brought out a significant transformation in terms of productivity and profitability along with enhancement of resource use efficiency. Advanced alternate efficient cropping systems have been developed for the replacement of existing cropping systems for significant improvement of the Cotton varieties ACP-71 suitable for multiple cropping system Indian Farming 37 July 2023 productivity. Besides, careful selection of crops and their varieties in the systems, management practices such as tillage, residue management, nutrient, water and weed management plays a vital role in the increased productivity. Hence, income of farmers can be increased manifolds through identification of high income generating alternate cropping systems. The present needs are of identification of alternative/diversified cropping systems which are more dietary and highly renumerated to farmers. Particularly in backward areas where households access to food depends largely on crop productivity rather than other sources of food security. Newly identified cropping systems would be sustained to form a major segment in the farming system which pursued to provide the sustainable livelihood development of a round of 87% households in India. Predominate cropping systems Cropping system, an important component of farming systems, represents a cropping pattern used on a farm and their interaction with farm resources, other farm enterprises and available technology, which determine their make-up.