 The centre has till December 2016 supplied more than two lakhs fifty thousand chicks to more than 5000 farmers of Nagaland, Manipur, Assam and Arunachal Pradesh 395 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Odisha has a geographical area of 1,55,707 km2 with a population of 4.19 crores. Agriculture is the mainstay of State’s economy providing livelihood support to a very large section of population. Agriculture in the state is characterized by low productivity due to traditional agricultural practices by poor farmers, inadequate irrigation infrastructure, skewed land distribution, marginal and small size of land-holding, low investment and capital formation and natural calamities occurring in quick succession. The State is divided into 10 agro-climatic zones, viz., North-Western Plateau, North-Central Plateau, North-Eastern Coastal Plain, East and South-Eastern Coastal Plain, North-Eastern Ghat, Eastern Ghat High Land, South-Eastern Ghat, Western Undulating Zone, West Central Table Land and Mid-Central Table Land. The climate of the State is tropical, characterized by high temperature, high humidity, medium to high rainfall, short and mild winter. The normal rainfall in the State is 1450 mm, of which about 80% is confined to monsoon months (June-September). Soil types range from fertile alluvial deltaic soils in Coastal Plains, mixed red and black soils in Central Table Land, red and yellow soils with low fertility in Northern Plateau to red, black & brown forest soils in Eastern Ghat region. he total cultivated land of the state is 61.80 lakh ha out of which 29.14 lakh ha (47%) is high land 17.55 lakh ha (28%) medium land and 15.11 lakh ha (25%) low land. About 84% of the farmers are small and marginal and have limited access to resources. Literacy too is a concern for this vulnerable group of farming community. As per Agricultural Census 2010- 11, the number of operational holdings of the state is 46.67 lakh with operational area 48.52 lakh ha. The state witnessed a decline in operational area due to urbanization and more of land put to nonagricultural use. Agriculture in the state is characterized by low productivity due to traditional agriculture practices by poor people, inadequate irrigation infrastructure, skewed land distribution, small size holding, low investment and capital formation and natural calamities occurring in quick succession. The climate of the state is tropical, characterized by high temperature, high humidity, medium to high rainfall, short and mild winter. The normal rainfall in the State is 1451 mm, of which about 80% is confined to monsoon months (June-September). Rice is the most important food crop of Odisha. Nearly 70% of the state’s population directly or indirectly depends upon rice cultivation. It is grown in an area of 41.8 lakh ha with productivity of 1821 kg ha-1 (rice) during 2013-14.