0 kg in 100 lit of water to control dieback of branches and keep fruit fly trap to control fruit fly or spray Spinosad 0.4 ml per liter of water or lambda cyhalothrin 10WP 1.25 g per lit of water. yy In citrus, for control of gummosis, canker and dieback, spray copper oxychloride (COC) 20ml and 3.0 g streptomycin per pump or per 15 lit of water. yy In pomegranate, spray Spinosad 0.4 ml per liter of water or lambda cyhalothrin 10WP 1.25g per lit of water during first week of May for the management of pomegranate butterfly and to manage the deficiency due to micronutrient, spray multiplex 250 g in 200 lit of water during May. 176 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy In pineapple, for inducing flowering poured 50 ml solution made by dissolving 1.25 ml of ethanol + 1kg of urea + 20 g of sodium carbonate in 50 lit. of water. yy Pruning of diseased and unwanted twigs of fruit trees and application of Bordeaux paste before onset of monsoon. Animal husbandry yy Pre-monsoon vaccination of FMD/HS and Artificial Insemination (Al) should be continued in consultation with veterinary officer on door to door basis rather than direct visit to the dispensaries. yy To maintain productivity and improve immune status of animals, farmers are suggested for regular supplementation of mineral - 60g/ day in adult dairy animals and 20-30g in small ruminants. yy In case of temporary shortage of availability of green fodder or concentrate feed farmers can also prepare home-made feed by using grain like wheat, maize, wheat bran, oilcakes and salt. They can also prepare silage for their adult dairy animals. yy Consumption of chicken and eggs along with other meat product may be considered safe. yy Ensure summer management of animals and provide them plenty of clean water along with Vitamin-C supplementation in extreme hot season to combat with the heat stress. Comfortable and ventilated housing should be there and practice regular deworming after every quarter as per the veterinary doctor advice. yy As a safety measures, farmers have to follow general hygiene practices when handling animals and animals products. Washing hand before and after feeding and milking animals with soap and clean water or using alcohol-based sanitizer. yy Frequent cleaning and sanitation of milk utensils and equipment should be practiced with suitable detergent. While delivering and pouring milk, use mask and safe distance of one arm between two persons. 177 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS yy Clean the floor of animal housing regular with phenol l ml per lit. of water and white washing of the feeding and watering trough to prevent infection. yy Disinfect the farm premises with suitable chemicals such as 1% sodium hypochlorite + bleaching powder (7.0 gm in 1 lit. of water) or 1% sodium hypochlorite with proper care. yy Do not spray chemicals/disinfectant on feed & fodder and animal body. Small ruminants (Goat) yy Adequate apace for animals should be given to prevent overcrowding.