 The grains must be kept in air-tight container to prevent from storage pest infestation. Millets in general are not the staple food these days. Value addition of millets will diversify the food platter. SUMMARY Proso millet cultivation can help farmers in arid and semi-arid regions of India. It can be cultivated as a sole crop or intercrop. Most of the fallow lands in summer can be brought into proso millet cultivation with limited irrigation, which will generate additional income if grown as an intercrop. Proso millet is a good source of plant-based protein and its value addition can enhance acceptance among consumers. The demand for millets has increased many folds, the market linkages are in incipient stage but sooner the market will face scarcity of raw material for making value added products. The major constraint of millet cultivation was yield, but with the availability of improved cultivars and practices, farmers can harvest profitable yields. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: avinash@millets.res.in Proso millet panicle Indian Farming 112 January 2023 Kodo poisoning and its management C Deepika and K Hariprasanna* ICAR- Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Kodo millet is a nutricereal, and staple food for many tribal and economically weaker sections in India. It is one of the hardiest crops, drought tolerant with high yield potential and excellent storage properties. But, its production and consumption are on the decline due to various factors. Kodo poisoning is one of the major factors impeding its consumption and this problem needs an immediate attention for effective management. The fear of kodo poisoning has emerged as a serious economic constraint for kodo millet cultivation, consumption and popularisation. This article would help in management of kodo poisoning thereby enabling its prevention, and enhancing the consumption and popularisation. Keywords: Aspergillus, Cyclopiazonic acid, Fusarium, Kodua poisoning, Mycotoxin M ANY small grained annual grasses of the rainfed ecosystem, commonly referred as small millets are ancient grains, which fed the human population before wide spread adoption of fine cereals. Looking at the nutritional benefit of such grains along with other millets, they are collectively called nutri-cereals. Kodo millet (Paspalum scrobiculatum) is one such nutri-cereal grown on marginal and degraded lands producing high grain yields even with limited water. In India, it is grown largely in tribal regions and under poor environments, and finds place in the diet of poor people either as whole grains or in the preparation of traditional food products like idli, dosa, chapati, pongal, soup, etc. Apart from food uses, several medicinal properties of its grains as well as leaves are also known. Despite all the beneficial properties, the kodo millet cultivation or consumption is limited by an enigma called kodo poisoning.