 Pleurotus pulmonarius Pleurotus oestratus and Pleurotus floridanus Pleurotus eryngii Crop Improvement icar annual report 2022-23 64 3. Livestock Improvement Cattle/Buffalo Selection signatures in Indian and exotic cattle breeds: The evidence of selection signatures in the datasets of 284 individuals of Tharparkar cattle along with 11 other indigenous and exotic cattle breeds were demonstrated. To find out these genomic regions were due to selective sweeps, eight different statistical tools were used. Significant candidate genes were identified related to various important traits such as ADRB2 in Tharparkar; HERC5, SCC25A48 in Gir; CA8 in Ongole and KIAI217 in Sahiwal for milk production; PARN in Holstein; ZBTB20 in Sahiwal; and APBB1 in Tharparkar for reproduction; SP110 in Brown Swiss; HSP90AB1 in Tharparkar and Red Sindhi for thermo-tolerance trait. Evidently, the expression level of RPL10 and RPS4X was significantly correlated with the field fertility rate in cattle and buffalo, respectively. Multivariate regression models and receiver operating curve analysis suggested that the expression levels of X-linked genes may be useful in predicting the bull fertility rate. Egg yolk free semen extender: Developed an egg yolk-free, ready to use, semen extender for cattle and buffalo with higher shelf-life (≥18 months, 4°C) for cryopreservation of buffalo semen. The post-thaw progressive motility of cryopreserved buffalo sperm in the new egg-yolk free semen extender was significantly higher (total motility: 68.6±5.62%; progressive motility: 41.5±4.01%) as compared to that of traditional egg- yolk-based semen extender (total motility: 41.6±2.55%; progressive motility: 18.7±1.70%). Selection signatures in Tharparkar cattle breed Expression of X-linked genes: The influence of X-linked genes on the sperm functional parameters and field fertility rate in the cattle and Murrah buffalo bulls was studied. The sperm transcriptome studies revealed that the total number and the expression levels of X-linked genes in the mature sperm were very low in both species, and only 23.3% of these genes were commonly expressed between them. The X-linked genes related to embryonic organ development and reproduction were enriched in cattle and buffalo sperm, respectively. The expression levels of X-linked genes RPL10 and ZCCHC13 in cattle, and AKAP4, TSPAN6, RPL10 and RPS4X in buffalo were significantly correlated with sperm kinematics. Comparison of the X-linked genes expressed in sperm of Holstein-Friesian cattle and Murrah buffalo Ready to use egg yolk-free semen extender for buffaloes Buff trace: A farm-to-fork block chain based buffalo meat traceability system was developed for buffalo meat industry in collaboration with the Chainflux Pvt Ltd., Bengaluru. The system helps in collection of post-slaughter information and retrieval of the traceability information based on the label details.