I Solan (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2448 Use of traditional earthen bins for grain storage For storage of grains of wheat, maize and rice, kohals (earthen bins) are used by the people of Jammu and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir. Storing the grains in earthen kohals is a traditional practice. The size of the Agriculkohals depends upon the produce with the farmers. White clay is coated on both sides of the kohal and made to air tight after storing the grain. Insects rarely attack the grains in the earthen kohals and storage can be prolonged. Keywords: kohals (traditional earthen bins), air tight Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2444 Use of mud bins for grain storage Bins made of mud and coated inside with cowdung are being used in certain areas of Jammu province of Jammu and Kashmir. For inside coating, cow dung is mixed with a certain amount of paddy straw which helps in binding the coated layer and remains intact for long. Being muddy, bin has special advantages in that, it helps in regulating the temperature and keeps the micro environment inside the bin naturalized to a large extent. The layer of cowdung coat inside the wall of the bin helps to check attack of insect pests, working as a mechanical barrier. The coating also pacifies the plant pathogenic organisms. Keywords: mud bins, cowdung coating, naturalized micro environment, mechanical barrier Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu  224 Use of kalanjium and ragi kuzhi as storage structure Two storage structures as indicated below are used for storing grains. Kalanjium: This is made up of bamboo stick and this could be placed below the ground level. Ragi kuzhi: This is made up of stones. It is constructed by making a dig in the soil and it is covered with stone or wooden slab. The storage material is treated with cow urine and castor paste before storage to avoid storage pest. Keywords: kalanjium, rage kuzhi, cow urine, castor paste Shri M. Periyasamy Galigattum, Denkanikottai, Dharmapuri (Tamil Nadu) 636 801 2303 Use of ash to store seeds of cucumber, water melon and musk melon Farmers of Mohal and Madha tehsil of Solapur district store the seeds of cucumber, water melon and musk melon by mixing in the ash. The extra moisture of the seeds is absorbed in the ash.