 The nymps are small and flat with visible beaks that suck the plant sap. To get rid of these flies, papers pasted with castor oil/grease are hung at five or six places in the cotton field. Then air is blown using a sprayer over the crop. The disturbed adult flies (white fly) come out of the plant and stick to the oily paper. By this method 90% of white fly can be successfully reduced (Pondicherry). Balalsubramanian (2000–2001) 150 Insect control measures in cotton Concentrated solution of sugar (500 g in a litre of water) is prepared and allowed to ferment. Fermented solution is placed in open dishes at different locations between the rows of cotton. One or two drops of edible oil is added to the dish. The users say that adult insects (which can fly) are attracted towards this solution. The idea behind this practice is to kill the adult population and ultimately reduce the reproduction (Bharuch, Gujarat). Sindha (1992) 75 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 151 Calotropis for control of caterpillars in cotton Caterpillar infestation can severely damage a cotton crop. Reportedly the latex of Akda (Calotropis gigantia), when diluted with 15 parts water and sprayed on the crop, effectively controls the pest within three days. The new growth after treatment is also free from infestation (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Jani (1992) 152 Control of green worm (Heliothis spp.) in cotton by dhatura Of all the pests occurring in the cotton crop, greenworm (Heliothis spp.) is one of the most harmful pests. Leaves and stem of Dhatura (Datura metel) are used to control green worm. About 250 to 300 g of ‘Dhatura' leaves along with stem are dipped in 1 litre of lukewarm water. After cooling down, 250 to 300 grams of the solution is mixed with 15 litres of water and sprayed on the crop. Pests perish within a period of six to seven hours.Spraying the mixture when the crop is of one-month-old yields better results (Amreli, Gujarat). Kaachhadiya (1998) 153 Control of disease in cotton by butter-milk When red spots appear on cotton leaves (in July or August), farmers dilute buttermilk with water and sprinkle it on the crop. When the application is made during the early stages of the disease, control comes within a week. This practice can also be used as a preventive measure (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Pandya (1993) 154 Control of insects in cotton by kerosene Farmers spray kerosene oil on the cotton crop at night to control larvae (locally known as Lashkari). Farmers believe that this pest remains in the soil, cracks during the day and attacks the crop at night. It attacks crops like cotton and lucerne in a cluster like an army brigade. This might have been the reason for giving it the name Lashkari. Some farmers mix kerosene in the irrigation water.