 About 50 g kunein oil is applied on the horn injury to cure this problem. Keywords: horn injury, kunein oil People of village Sundaya of district Bareilly in Uttar Pradesh use this ITK. For this, 100 g dust of red alum and 200 g pure ghee are mixed properly and applied on the infected horn. The animal horn is cured. Keywords: animal horn, red alum, pure ghee Sometimes animal's horn may develop cracks leading to horn breakage. To get rid of it, farmers of district Alwar in Rajasthan burn the leather of worn- out shoes (15-20 g) and ladies' hair (5-10 g). The ash is mixed with mustard oil and it is applied over the cracked horn, and this practice is repeated after an interval of 3-4 days. The problem is solved within 25 days by using this technique for 3 times. Keywords: horn, crack, broken, leather, hair, mustard oil (Uttar Pradesh) and Shri Bhup Ram, S/o Shri Sohan Lai, Khiraka, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Devi Ram, S/o Shri Brij Lai, Bishesharpur, Joytijagir, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Devaki Prasad, S/o Shri Mewa Ram, Gotia (Larpur), Sainthal, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Shri Tota Ram, S/o Shri Mulchand, Sundyaba, Haphijganj, dist. Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 791 102 Content VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code Title of the ITK No. Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3267 Remedy to cure bleeding of horns 3268 Healing of broken horn in cattle by using paste of nagali 3269 Remedy to prevent loosening or shedding of teeth in animals In this, gingelly oil (Sesamum indicum) is taken and the latex from leaves of Euphorbia tortilis (thiruku kalli) and Ficus bengalensis (alam) are collected. The gingelly oil is applied on the affected horn and Euphorbia tortilis milk is poured on top of it, and then alam milk (Ficus bengalensis) is applied on the wound. The horn is tied with a clean piece of cloth daily for 3 days. Keywords: thiruku kalli, alam, horn, wound The people of village Mohbi are following this practice. In this ITK, flour made of nagali (Eleusine coracana) is made into a paste. The prepared paste is applied on the broken edge of the horn. It is applied 3-4 times a week. This treatment helps heal the horn, and slowly the edge of the horn becomes tough and resistant. Many farmers of the village and nearby villages have started using this practice. Keywords: nagali, horn, broken edge About 100 g ashes of banana or plantain tree (Musa paradisiaca) prepared in Kati mah (15 October to 15 November), black salt (50 g), mustard oil (5 ml) and honey (25 ml) are taken. Ingredients required are: 5 ml gum or latex of Calotropis gigantea L.