 Unit 5: Managerial Economics Scope of managerial economics, objective of the firm and basic economic principles; Consumer theory. Demand analysis - meaning, types and determinants of demand; demand function; demand elasticity; demand forecasting-need and techniques. Production, cost and supply analysis- production function, least-cost input combination, factor productivities and returns to scale, cost concepts, cost-output relationship, Pricing-determinants of price-pricing under different market structures The national income; circular flow of income: consumption, investment and saving: money-functions, demand & supply; inflation; economic growth; business cycles and business policies; Recent developments in the national and international economic and agricultural scenarios. Unit 6: Operations Research and Research Methods Objectives, types, and process of research; Problem formulation; Scales of measurement; Sampling, Types of sampling - Probability and non-probability sampling techniques, sample size determination, sampling and non-sampling errors. Role and uses of quantitative techniques in business decision making, Use of introductory statistics, Report writing. Linear Programming: Objective, Assumptions, Formulation of Linear Programming Problem, Graphic Method, Simplex method; Transportation and Assignment Problems; Inventory control Models, Costs Involved in Inventory Management, Types of Inventory; Waiting Line Models: Waiting Line Problem, Characteristics of a Waiting Line System; Decision making under Risk and uncertainties, Decision tree ; Game Theory- Two -Person Zero-Sum Game; Simulation; Network analysis -PERT & CPM, Markov Chains. 122 Unit 7: Agribusiness Environment and Policy Role of agriculture in Indian economy; problems and policy changes relating to farm supplies, farm production, agro processing, agricultural marketing, agricultural finance etc. in the country. Agribusiness - definition and nature, components of agribusiness management, changing dimensions of agricultural business. Structure of Agriculture - Linkages among sub-sectors of the Agribusiness sector; economic reforms and Indian agriculture; impact of liberalization, privatization and globalization on Agri-business sector. Emerging trends in production, processing, marketing and exports; policy controls and regulations relating to the industrial sector with specific reference to agro-industries. Agribusiness policies- concept and formulation; and new dimensions in Agri- business environment and policy. Agricultural price and marketing policies; public distribution system and other policies. International trade- basic concepts.