 A resource efficient horticulture model was developed with drip irrigation, crop diversification, high density plantation, protected cultivation, coconut based multi-storey cropping, intercropping options with banana, drumstick, staking method of vegetable cultivation, mulching in pineapple etc to maximize farm income in minimum land under the project Development of resource efficient horticulture model for livelihood improvement of rural women. Farm-women were sensitized in Integrated pest management through interventions in seed treatment, machan planting system, resistant varieties, pheromone trap, yellow sticky trap, neem oil and trichocard in their own field. For further improvement of livelihood of women, a project on Promoting gender equity through family poultry production was carried out with an alternate non competitive feed ingredient in poultry feed (incorporating azolla up to 10% in the diet of Vanaraja laying hens without any adverse affect on egg production and egg quality). Socio economic profile of 100 households from 3 selected villages was collected for possible interventions for their livelihood improvement. Achievements of AICRP on Home Science: Under the component of Home Science Extension and Communication Management, work was done under projects entitled Dynamics and performance of women groups in agriculture and allied sectors and Techno socio-economic dimensions of women empowerment. In the first project, secondary data were collected from 2,832 SHGs out of 3,749 on the profile of the group members, group dynamics, group activities and income generation/ entrepreneurship and empowerment status by using a developed interview schedule. Under the project Women empowerment, a campaign was organized for creating awareness regarding popularization of kitchen/ herbal gardens and vermicomposting units were established. Considering Drudgery reduction of farm women Different projects were taken up for reducing operational drudgery and increasing efficiency of farm- women. Under the project “Ergonomic evaluation of selected manually operated farm equipments in mango and cashew nut”, selected manually operated farm equipment and the energy expensive activities were identified and evaluated ergonomically. Minor orchard tools, fruit harvesters with adjustable handles were introduced and found to be useful. Under project Technological interventions for drudgery reduction with increased work efficiency through women friendly farm tools/ equipment/ technologies in Odisha, woman- friendly farm tools namely seed treatment drum and cotton stalk puller were scaled up. Introduced eight tools, viz. DRWA hand operated maize dehusker- cum-sheller, Cono weeder, Paddy drum seeder, CRRI hand winnower, Sitting type groundnut decorticator, hanging type grain cleaner, tubular maize sheller and improved sickle to SHGs through KVKs of OUAT for field assessment.