 The oral lesions in all the 30 animals (9 calves, 17 heifers, 3 cows and 1 bullock) of Group I were treated with mixture of gingelly oil, pig fat and banana twice a day for 7 days. Reduction of salivation in these animals was observed on the fifth day and healing of tongue and oral lesion following application of mixture of gingelly, pig fat and banana. They also started taking drinking water and succulent grass (Fig. 3). In subgroup A, which was treated for foot lesion by application of neem oil alone, all the animals did not show any improvement even after 7 days of treatment (Fig. 4). In subgroup B, a mixture of Gloriosa superba and liquid paraffin was applied to the foot lesion for 7 days and no healing was observed in any of these animals.Animals in subgroup C were treated for foot lesion with a mixture Gloriosa superba and neem oil for 7 days and the healing of lesion was appreciable. Animals exhibited lameness. A delay in healing of foot-and-mouth lesions was observed in Group I C. In Group II of 30 animals (7 calves, 13 heifer, 8 cows and 2 bullock), which received an application of buroglycerin for oral lesion twice a day for a period of 7 days, there was a remarkable reduction of salivation on the third day itself, and from the fourth day onwards the animal showed some interest in nibbling succulent grass and drinking water (Fig. 5). Further, Lorexone ointment was applied twice a day for 7 days to the foot lesions for all the animals in Group II. The healing was visible on the third day of application of the ointment and was almost complete by 7 days of treatment, although the animal showed slight lameness. Clinical signs All the 30 apparently healthy animals selected were bright, alert and had good appetite. Their eyes were bright and prominent and the visible mucous membrane was pale pink and moist. The body temperature was normal. All the 60 cattle (cow calves, bull calves, heifers cows, bulls and bullock) were dull in behaviour, showed anorexia, profused salivation, fever and lameness. Their eyes were dull and slightly sunken. Physical examination revealed lesions on the dorsum of the tongue, dental pad, interdigital space, bulb of the heals and coronet. In milch animal, there was drop in milk yield. These observations are in full accordance with these of Singh and Gupta (1987), Radostits et al. (1994); Smith (1996) and Remond et al. (2002). Temperature: The normal body temperature of cattle ranged from 38.0 to 39.0°C. In the present study the mean body temperature of cattle was 38.32 ± 0.03°C (Table 1) and it was within the normal range as stated by Rosenberger (1979). In foot-and-mouth disease-affected animals the body temperature ranged from 40 to 41°C. The pre- treatment mean body temperature of cattle in treatment Groups I and II was 39.34 ± 0.03°C and 39.39 ± 0.02°C respectively (Table 1). The elevation of body temperature might be due to involvement of infectious agent.