 Protected cultivation: Papaya crop grown under net house recorded higher yield and quality attributes at Anantharajupet, Coimbatore and Gandevi for number of fruits (63.63, 77.20 and 46.38 respectively), fruit weight, marketable fruits, total yield (151.03, 236.71 and 77.79 t/ha respectively), TSS (12.13, 12.90 and14.64 °B respectively) as compared to crop grown in open condition. Net house significantly protected the plants from PRSV incidence in the three test locations. Pomegranate special micronutrient formulation: Three new amino acid based micronutrient formulations were developed for nutrient management at different stages of fruit development in pomegranate. The foliar application of amino acid based formulation I and II resulted in 41.23% increase in fruit yield, with highest (46.57%) exportable grade fruits as against 9.75 kg/tree in control. Integrated nutrient management: An integrated nutrient management package (50 kg FYM + 100% NPK + 200 g each of Azotobacter and PSB) for commercial cultivation of bael under eastern UP conditions with 127.93 kg/tree fruit yield, was standardized. Multiplication rate in apple clonal rootstocks: A technology for enhanced multiplication rate in apple clonal rootstocks was standardized; with this method, 5– 8 graftable size (4.5–5.5 mm thick at grafting height), rooted plants with well developed root system could be obtained from the first year in stool beds in polyhouse. Pruning in custard apple: Pruning schedule for custard apple cv. Balanagar with removal of 75% of previous seasons growth at 90 days after final harvest of fruit was standardized (fruit yield 9.76 kg/tree or 3.9 t/ ha) for semi-arid and arid conditions. Tender coconut harvesting: Continuous harvesting of tender nut throughout the year recorded significantly higher yield (187/palm) as compared to harvesting mature nuts (97/palm) with better return (` 2,64,768) to farmers. Coconut husk composting technology: A two-stage composting strategy involving initial aerobic composting using earthworm gut microbiota with organic amendments followed by coconut leaf vermin- composting earthworms effectively recycled the recalcitrant wastes to useful manure rich in organic carbon and plant-beneficial microbiota. The simple composting technology can help in producing quality organic manure for improving soil and plant health with reduced chances for mosquito multiplication which is a severe health hazard in urban and rural environment. Oil palm site suitability evaluator software: A decision support system with software for evaluating site suitability to cultivate oil palm under irrigated or rainfed conditions was developed and test validated. Pollen storage of date palm: In date palm cv. Halawy, 70% fruits set through pollination with pollen stored under refrigerated conditions (4–5°C) was achieved as compared to 53% under pollen stored at room temperature and 89% fruits set with fresh pollen.