 Plant-Animal Relationship Performance of local goat was found better in terms of kidding percentage (100 vs 56), birth weight (1.47 vs 1.32 kg), and reproductive problem like stillbirth (nil vs 22.22%) under stall feeding than grazing. Overall total ingestion time per hour under stall feeding was 55.33 minutes, whereas under grazing condition it was 55.91 minutes. Under hot dry environment, supplementation of extra energy (20%) through barley improved feed intake of 18.2% with positive effect on weight gain in crossbred (Jersey × Tharparkar) heifers fed on iso-nitrogenous mixed ration of concentrates and forages. Phosphorus Application Improves Common Sesban Seed Production In common sesban (Sesbania sesban), the maximum seed yield (1,112 kg/ha and 1,115 kg/ha) was recorded with the application of 80 kg and 120 kg P 2O5/ha, respectively. In the lopping management treatments, the highest seed yield (925.5 kg/ha) was obtained without lopping. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 92 ANIMAL GENETIC RESOURCES Livestock Information Management A database based on the information collected from various sources was developed. Descriptors and questionnaires for collecting information on various breeds of livestock and poultry through field surveys, and a software package for entry and analysis of this data were developed. An information system on Animal Genetic Resources of India (AGRI-IS) containing information on breed habitat, management practices, breed characteristics, farms, literature, photographs, habitat map, etc., was also developed. This system is available on CD medium. A database on district-wise livestock and poultry census from 1961 onwards is also being maintained. This databank was updated with the population data of various livestock species for the year 1997 and now contains data for 14 states and Union Territories. Information on camel breeds of India was added to AGRI-IS. Software package: A progamme for analysis of sheep data was developed and added to software package for analysis of data collected through survey. Database development for buffalo genetic resources: Questionnaires for buffalo breeds were developed for various data environments containing the most typical conformation traits under study. Reporting system is being designed. Characterization and Conservation of Animal Genetic Resources Kankrej cattle: The Kankrej breed, distributed in 14 districts of Gujarat and Barmer and Jodhpur areas of Rajasthan, has its origin from Kankrej area of Banaskantha district. Kankrej animals are mostly with the rabbaries, the semi- nomadic people. Very few animals are in milk at a given period of time. The average lactation milk yield, fat percentage and lactation length were 1,535.8 kg (ranging from 578 to 3,258 kg), 4.3% (ranging from 2.8 to 6.2%) and 302.1 days (ranging from 159 to 369 days), respectively. The coat colours are white, grey and iron grey. Muzzles are grey, white and black. Hoofs are black, grey and white.