 Temperatures above 30°C causes dropping of buds and flowers, result in the poor yield but if temperature reaches above 35°C then bean seeds may not be formed. French beans mature faster in warmer climatic areas. The crop is generally raised in areas receiving 50-150 cm annual rainfall. Water logging at any stage adversely affects its yield because heavy rains causes flower drop and spread of leaf spot diseases. This crop is suitable for round the year cultivation July– September (rainy season crops) and December–January (dry season crop) but in the main season (December–April) crop has given better results. Suitable soil and preparation French bean can be grown in wide range of soils from light sand to heavy clay, but well drained loams are the best. Soil pH around 5.2-6.0 is optimum. The crop is sensitive to salinity. It is better to have organic matter in soil for better yield and promotes more vegetative growth. Adding Farm Yard manure (FMY) or any other compost can make the soil rich during preparation of field. The main field of French bean should be prepared thoroughly by giving 4 to 6 deep ploughing by 23 harrowing and planking is adequate to obtain required tilth. Crop requires fine seedbed and adequate soil moisture for good germination. Seed rate, sowing methods and spacing Recommended seed rate of French bean for bush types varieties is 65 kg/ha and 25-30 kg/ha, for pole types varieties. However, sometime seed rate varies with seed size because bold seeded varieties (with a test weight of 350-450 g) need 120-140 kg seed/ha, while in small seeded varieties, it varies from 80-100 kg/ha. The seed rate may vary with row proportions during intercropping. This crop is generally sown in northern plain on spacing of 45 × 20 cm. In bush type varieties, rows 45-60 cm apart and 10-15 cm away from seed to seed while in pole type varieties they are often sown in hills about 90 × 30 cm apart. The seed may be sown by dibbling, drilling and broadcasting at a depth of 2.0 to 3.0 cm. The seeds should be inoculated with rhizoidal culture before sowing. Cropping systems In rabi season, intercropping of potato with French bean in 3:2 ratio is being practiced in central and eastern Uttar Pradesh and northern Bihar. Sometimes French bean with linseed in 2:1 ratio is also found to be an efficient cropping system. Whereas, in North India, this crop is grown in spring season after potato or mustard. In hilly regions, it is being intercropped between maize and soybean. Irrigations and intercultural operations Irrigation in this crop should be given during flowering and pod development stages, while in dry season, frequent irrigation is required at 3-4 days interval during fruiting stage. The soil must have sufficient moisture but avoid excess moisture during seed germination otherwise germination will affected. French bean crop suffers severe competition from weeds in initial stages. Therefore, shallow cultivation keeps the crop free from weeds.