 Organic farming with a principle of crop diversity and reduced usage of agro-chemicals ensures the quality products at affordable rates for the rural communities with several options such as value addition, cottage industries etc. 4. Connecting Dots between Gandhian Philosophy and Organic Farming yy Swadeshi (Connecting to the local economy), one of the tenets of the organic movement is eating locally and supporting local farmers. Eating organic also means supporting local seeds. In organic agriculture, local varieties with market demand are preferred. yy Asteya (Non-stealing), the idea of non-stealing is to pay farmers fairly for their produce, which is possible through the premium price of organic produce. Aswada (Control of the palate), fresh organic produce should be able to taste wonderful and natural without a thousand different ingredients to give it a better taste. yy Ahimsa (Non-violence), eating of organic food seems like a truly non-violent way to consume food. Chemicals are not deployed to kill different creatures that live in a farmer’s field (with the exception for the main crop). Beneficial insects and microorganisms and useful weeds are preserved for advocating biological methods of control of pests and Organic and Low Input Agriculture: Gandhian Way 90 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR pathogens. Organic agriculture actively works to preserve the ecosystem; and also prevents farmers from being overexposed to chemicals that severely affects the health of farmers and their families. yy Asangraha, emphasizes that waste is a sin against nature and nature’s cycle must be recognized with ecological humility. Describes clearly about enough and satisfaction with the available production, which is being obtained under subsistence or commercial farming as envisaged. Gandhiji stood for integration and cohesion in the form of Yagna meaning replenishment of soil/nature. Principles of organic farming also emphasize health, ecology, fairness and care. 5. ICAR’s Activities in Realizing Gandhian Principles Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) was initiated during 2004-05 by Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR), New Delhi with Project Directorate for Farming Systems Research (PDFSR) as nodal institute in order to develop a comprehensive technological package for organic farming in different crops in system mode. Four experiments were planned and conducted at 13 centres to address, all issues such as comparative evaluation of organic, inorganic, and integrated crop management practices, method and source of nutrient application, management of pest, diseases and weeds in various crops/ cropping systems. The mandate of the project was made to infuse scientifically validated organic farming approaches and to develop location/ region specific management protocols for organic farming.