 To over- come waste and soilage feeding and watering devices were tested and recommended for use. ● Rectangular feeder for adult animals consists of a 4 legged angle iron strand, a GI rectangular shaped feeding trough with a trian- gular pyramid in the middle and a vertical and sloping hayrack mounted on the feeding trough. The upper portion of the rack is covered with GI sheet and the lower portion consists of iron bars. These feeders have provisions for individual or simultaneous feeding of various types of feed materials. ● Hexagonal feeder for adult animals consists of a 6 legged stand on which a hexagonal bottom trough with six faced central cone is fitted. A six-faced cylindrical hay rack was mounted on the feeding trough. The lower portion of this rack had vertical slant- ing outward iron bars whereas the top portion was made of gal- vanized iron sheet. This feeder also has provision for individual or simultaneous feeding of various types of feed materials. This can accommodate about 15 animals. Animals can eat from all the sides. The feeding height should be kept as average shoul- der point height of the animals. These feeders can be locally fabricated and save space and labour. There is less wastage and no contamination through faeces and urine. ● Kid feeder with roof consists of an adjustable stand, GI feeding trough with a roof to protect the feed materials. The height of feeding trough can be adjusted as per the age of animals. Kids can eat from both the sides. The height of the roof can also be adjusted. This feeder was developed for kids in the age groups of 3-6 months; however, it can be used for kids between 0 to 12 months of age. It is suitable for 8-10 kids of sheep and goat. ● Box type kid feeder consists of a box made of GI sheet with an opening in the length side of the box. This can be fitted at any height on the walls, fencing or on stand. Goats can be fed only from one side. It meets the requirement of goats and sheep up to one year of age. It can accommodate 4 sheep or 5 goats. This feeder can also be used as hanging type feeder for kids up to 3 months of age. ● Hanging type circular kid feeder was developed for the kids up to 3 months of age. Out of this one feeder was the most suitable. It consists of a joint less aluminum pan (used as feeding trough), a conical storage bin (made of GI sheet) etc. Feed material is kept in the storage bin fixed above the aluminium-feeding trough, from which it flows into the feeding trough. This feeder may accom- modate about ten kids of sheep and goat. Animals can take feed from all the sides. ● Adjustable kid feeder with hayrack and watering devices are suit- able for the feeding of all types of feed materials. On the width sides of the hayrack, watering devices are attached. It can ac- commodate 8-10 kids. It is suitable for kids from the day of birth to 12 months of age. There is no contamination of feed. The rate of feed consumption and waste of feed was satisfactory.