 He came into contact with KVK Lahaul and Spiti at Kukumsheri and attended various training programs. He is one of the FLD farmers of the KVK for cash crops. The KVK suggested him for crop diversification against single crop with low productivity and income. Consequently, he switched over to crop diversification and cultivation of high- value exotic vegetables from traditional farming. He cultivates vegetables, fruits, and Lilium flowers on his 1.88 ha while utilizing integrated pest and disease management. He also manages a small dairy unit, grows red clover and tall fescue as fodder crops, practices vermicomposting, and runs a trout fish farm to generate extra income. These changes have increased productivity and net returns on his farm. Shri Lal Singh’s adoption of a diversified cropping system has resulted in the cultivation of high-value exotic vegetables, cauliflower, and flower crops by the farmers of neighbouring villages. With the introduction of training and demonstrations, the movement, which started with just 12-15 farmers, has grown to 175, significantly improving their economic status and living standards. TECHNOLOGY ASSESSMENT, DEMONSTRATION AND CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 177 View of poultry unit of Sh. Sher Khan important locations on more than 17,000 ha whereas, more than 2,200 demonstrations were conducted on decomposer technology. KVKs also organized 216 exposure visits, and 218 field days/harvest days in which more than 9,800 and 14,000 farmers mobilised, respectively. Integrated Farming System (IFS): Integrated Farming System (IFS) commonly refers to agricultural systems coupled or integrated with livestock, fisheries etc. and this is also referred to as integrated bio-systems. In this system, there exists an inter-relation between the different farming enterprises and it highly emphasises on waste management or resource management in such a way that the waste from one enterprise becomes an input for another enterprise. It was popularized all over the country because of the fact that it is highly feasible for small and marginal farmers which prevails over 82% of the total farming population in the country. IFS of different component combination were popularized through all the KVKs in the country and there are 9,645 IFS units established spanning an area of 852.11 ha during 2022–23. Under IFS, a total of 3,490 demonstrations and 3156 trainings were conducted for 36,808 and 60,908 farmers respectively during the year. CASE STUDIES Poultry farming as gainful self-employment in tribal area (KVK, Banswara) Shri Sher Khan, a 24-year-old school dropout and unemployed youth with 2 acre land, was eager to start a new enterprise but lacked clarity on what to pursue. He approached KVK, Banswara and participated in vocational training on commercial poultry production under the ARYA Project.