 In order to maximize the usage efficiency of both water and fertilizer, there is must necessity for the balanced application of fertilizer in the water-soluble form in the active root zone according to the stage-by-stage requirements of the crop. Fertigation techniques available in the market and their limitations Number of fertigation techniques are available in the market, ranging from very low cost to fully automated systems, to inject water soluble fertilizers into the irrigation system. But considering their costs, working principles, accessibility to the market, complexity, difficulties in operation, etc., farmers are reluctant to buy them. By using such devices over the years, farmers have Indian Farming 8 July 2023 good knowledge about the existing devices, their flaws, demerits, problems incurred during their operation, etc. Some of the widely used fertigation techniques are as follows: Venturi Injector: According to Bernoulli’s law, when water flows through the Venturi at a certain pressure, the flow velocity will increase, due to the smaller radius of throat. Water pressure energy converts into kinetic energy and it reduces on side wall of the pipe. If the side wall pressure is lower than the atmospheric pressure, a negative pressure will be formed, and then fertilizer water will be sucked into the pipe. The cost of one Venturi injector assembly is about `2000. Besides its cost and other specifications, it has certain limitations regarding the suction of fertilizers. It requires a sufficient pressure difference (at least 20–25%) to suck the fertilizer into the pipe. Fertilizer tank: It is a tank connected parallel to the irrigation pipe, able to support the irrigation pressure. It has a lid on top which allows compatible fertilizers to be placed inside and be closed hermetically later. It provided with inlet and outlet port. A valve is installed in the irrigation pipe between the inlet and the outlet to generate a pressure difference between 0.2 and 0.5 kg/cm2. This provokes a diversion of flow through the tank which sweeps fertilizer water to the irrigation pipe. The cost of the fertilizer tank of capacity 60 litres is around `7500. Also, it has limitations regarding the uniform mixing of fertilizers. Dosing pumps: It works on the principle of water pressure. Setting up on the water network of the irrigation system the metering pump uses water pressure as the only driving force. When activated, it sucks in the concentrated product, doses it to the desired percentage, and then mixes it with the driving water. The solution is then sent downstream. The dose of fertilizer injected is always proportional to the volume of water flowing through the metering pump, regardless of variations in system pressure. The cost of the injection pumps is too high as compared to other fertigation devices and they also do not mix fertilizer solutions as precisely and effectively as other devices.