05% or mancozeb 75% WP @ 0.2%, mancozeb+metalaxyl 72% WP @ 0.1% or COC 50% WP (0.20%) at 10-15 days interval as need based is recommended. Harvesting and yield The curds are harvestable at 65-85 days after transplanting with first harvesting starting at about 65 days and continued up to 85 days at regular interval. The potential marketable curd yield is 22-25 t/ha. Commercialization and seed production The variety is released in 2018, and being promoted and commercialized by Public and Private sector institutions. Seeds of Kashi Gobhi-25 are continuously multiplied and sold by ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi from 2019 onwards; being promoted by public sector organization like NHRDF, Patna which is producing 60-150 kg TL seeds annually from 2019; commercialised through licensing with private sector in 2020 (WML Biotechnology Pvt. Ltd., Keonjhar, Odisha), and also in breeder seed chain from 2020 onwards. For further interaction, please write to: Dr B K Singh (Scientist), ICAR-Indian Institute of Vegetable Research, Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh 221 305. *Corresponding author email: bksinghkushinagar@yahoo.co.in Kashi Gobhi-25 in bolting stage at Seed Production Block of ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi May–June 2023 19 B LACK turmeric (Curcuma caesia Roxb.) belonging to the family Zingiberaceae; is a perennial, underutilized, medicinal herb having diploid chromosome (2n=42) and is endangered to South-East Asia (Fig. 1). This plant grows in North-East, Central and some parts of South India. It has high economical value due to several medicinal benefits of its rhizome. It grows well in moist deciduous forest areas. It is supposed to be high in antioxidants. Its rhizome is claimed to cure several diseases like asthma, leprosy, epilepsy, fever, bronchitis, stomach problems, piles, cancer, w o u n d s , t o o t h a c h e , fertility, impotency and vomiting, etc. Owing to its high therapeutic value, it has been exploited indiscriminately from its natural habitat, limited area of cultivation and is a victim of biopiracy resulting its grouping into endangered species. It has a bluish-black coloured rhizome with a bitter taste and pungent smell. It is popularly called as Kali Haldi (Hindi), Ailaidum (Mizo), Yaimu (Manipuri), Kalahaladhi (Assamese), Kala manjal (Malayalam), Nalla Pasupu (Telugu) and also known as black zedoary. Potential for Black turmeric cultivation in Mizoram Black turmeric (Curcuma caesia Roxb.) is a well-known crop among the Mizo community due to its various medicinal uses by the locals. It is either hunt in the jungle or grown in a small kitchen garden without proper management for domestic uses. A large diversity of black turmeric also exists in the wild across Mizoram. The rhizome is used to cure several diseases. As a result of over-exploitation from their natural habitat, they are likely to become extinct in the near future. This crop is grown without following suitable agronomic procedures, which leads to poor production and productivity.