 Hybrid seed yield (on the A-line) depends upon the yield potential of the A-line, per cent seed set, and environmental conditions. Seed processing As per Indian minimum seed certification standards (2013), the threshed seeds of sorghum should be physically pure and should not contain weed seeds, disease and pest infested seed, other crop seed, other cultivar seed, undesirable seed, and damaged seeds. Seed processing is an integral part of sorghum seed technology, which encompasses steps such as drying, cleaning, grading, treating and bagging. Seeds of sorghum harvested and threshed properly can often be cleaned to the desired purity on the air screen cleaner alone. The sieve aperture sizes of top and bottom screens of air screen cleaner differ with genotypes. Generally, the top screen may be around 12/64” or 4.75 mm with round holes and the bottom screen at 9/64”or 3.5 mm with round holes. The specific gravity separator helps in upgrading the quality of seeds by rejecting the seed that is inferior in specific gravity. The seed should to be dried to a uniform moisture level of 11–12% for storage. The seed companies train supervisory staff who in turn advise and assist the seed growers in hybrid seed production across critical crop growth stages. Close communication between seed growers and the company supervisory staff during the entire season facilitates quality seed production of sorghum hybrids. The requirements of isolation distance must be satisfied by a negotiated contract between a contract grower or group of farmers living in a community (seed village) and the seed firm. Sorghum seed production Sorghum dispersal Indian Farming 83 January 2023 Seed certification Genetic purity in seed production is maintained through a system of seed certification. The main objective of seed certification is to make available the seeds of good quality to farmers. To achieve this qualified and trained personnel from SCA carries out field inspections at appropriate stages of crop growth. They also make a seed inspection by drawing samples of seed lots after processing. The SCA verifies seed standards in which the seed lot must confirm to get approval as certified seed. Hybrid seed production plot should ensure field standards (general and specific requirements) of the produce for foundation and certified seed classes as per the Indian minimum seed certification standards (2013) prescribed for sorghum. SUMMARY Commercial hybrid seed production of sorghum must be carried out in a systematic manner. Selection of areas and seasons free from disease and pests is very important before planning hybrid seed production of sorghum. Seed production agencies have to identify suitable areas with ideal agro-climatic conditions for efficient hybrid seed production through preliminary experimentation. Areas with temperature extremities, endemic to serious disease, pest, and obnoxious weed like Sorghum halepense and Striga are not suitable.