 Pearl millet is suitable to prepare products like puffs, extruder snacks, upma, laddu, chapathi, pasta, noodles, pizza base, cookies, bread/bun, cake, instant idli mix and millet flour. The major use (almost 70%) of pearl millet is for food purpose. Apart from this, the grains are also used as a cattle feed, alcohol industry, poultry industry and for seed. Pearl millet is an excellent cattle and poultry feed and it is nutritionally either superior to, or as good as corn. Most of pearl millet production currently is used for poultry, livestock and bird feed. The fodder from pearl millet and sorghum is preferred as livestock feed due to its superior quality with high energy and protein levels. Pearl millet-supplemented poultry feeds are generally superior to sorghum and equivalent to maize in broiler diets. Pearl millet grains are used in the production of potable alcohol and biofuel. In India, broken rice is used as a viable feedstock for alcohol industry followed by pearl millet grain (lower grade grain quality) and sorghum. Even though, the use of pearl millet in alcohol industry is not huge at present, there is much potential in future and increasingly many distilleries are shifting now to pearl millet from sugarcane molasses. A significant portion of pearl millet, especially lower quality, and blackened grain is used in Haryana and Rajasthan for manufacturing potable alcohol. Cellulose and hemicellulose, which are the main components for cellulosic biofuel production, are found abundantly in Pearl millet (bajra) biomass making it amenable for the production of biofuel. Pearl millet has every potential to be used for commercial scale-up of ethanol production in coming future because of its suitability as a rain- fed and low-input crop, short period of crop rotation, adaptation to poor soils, high biomass yield per unit area, energy yield potential and market price. SUMMARY Standardized seed production technology is essential for tapping the full potential of crop production. Several hybrids and varieties of pearl millet suited to different agro-climatic zones have been developed in India by both private and public sectors. Development of pearl millet based ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook products that are storable being developed strengthening the commercial value chain of the crop. The crop is also being explored for novel uses such as potable alcohol and bio-ethanol production. Strong seed production systems and commercial exploitation of the crop helps in ensuring enhanced and assured returns to the pearl millet farmers. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: jinu@millets.res.in Indian Farming 38 January 2023 Small millets in India: Current scenario and way forward K Hariprasanna* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 In India, sorghum (Sorghum bicolor), pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) and a group of seven small millets together constitute the millets family.