 (a) The Governing Body may delegate to the Institutes Directors of the Institutes/Laboratories all powers for their functioning. (b) The Indian Agricultural Research Institute, which is a deemed University under the University Grants Commission Act, 1956 and such other Institutes as may be declared deemed Universities, may be delegated enhanced powers beyond those contemplated in Sub-Rule(a) above in view of their special status. Powers to frame, amend 40. Subject to the provisions of these Rules and with or repeal bye-laws on the approval of the Government of India, the certain matters Governing Body shall have the power to frame- amend or repeal bye-laws for the administration and management of the affairs and funds of the Society and in particular to provide for the following matters: 17 i) preparation and sanction of budget estimates, sanctioning expenditure, execution of contracts, investment of funds of the Society, purchase, sale or change of such investments and maintenance of accounts and their audit. ii) procedure for recruitment and training, examination, assessment, clearance of probation, confirmation and promotion of personnel to and in the service of the Council. iii) terms and tenures of appointments and assignments, emoluments, allowances, rules of discipline and other conditions of service of the employees of the Council. iv) terms and conditions governing: - a) the grant of scholarships, fellowships etc., b) deputations within the country and abroad, c) grants-in-aid for research schemes and projects, and d) establishment of research centres. v) such other matters as may be necessary or incidental to the administration of the affairs and funds of the Society. Frequency of meetings 41. The Governing Body shall meet as often as necessary, and in any event at least once in each quarter of the year, the year for this purpose being the financial year commencing on the first day of April and ending on the thirty-first day of March of the following calender year. Date, time and place of 42. The Governing Body meetings shall be held on such meetings date, time and place as may be determined by the Director-General. Notice for meetings and 43. (i) all meetings of the Governing Body shall be its service called by notice in writing by and under the hand of the Secretary, (ii) every notice calling a meeting of the Governing Body shall state the date, time and place of the meeting and shall be served upon every member of the Governing Body not less than fifteen clear days before the day appointed for the meeting. Validation of proceedings 44. Any inadvertent ommission to give notice to or non- of meetings receipt or late receipt of notice by any member shall not invalidate the proceedings of the meeting. 18 Chairman of the meetings Quorum Determination of matters by majority vote 3) 46. Conduct of business by circulation of resolution Approval of proceedings 45. Meeting of the Governing Body shall be presided over by the Director-General.