 Name and address of the discloser : Thirty six farmers of Aralkocha village, C/o Secretary, Aralkocha Kansabati club, Village Aralkocha, P.O. Konnapara, Block-Hura, Purulia (West Bengal) 723 128, through Kalyan Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Vivekanandanagar, Purulia (West Bengal) 723 147 Location of use of the ITK : Villages Aralkocha, Rahemda, Siju, Arujnjora,Chirumarcha Block-Hura, Purulia (West Bengal) 723 147 Geographical indicator : Cleistanthus collinus (Roxb.) Benth and Hook f: A small deciduous tree distributed from the Deccan peninsula, northwards up to Ganges. It thrives well on dry rocky ground. Experimenters : Dr (Ms) Mayabini Jena, Senior Scientist, Entomology and Dr T. K. Dangar, Scientist, Department of Soil Microbiology, Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) 753 006.   PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT METHODOLOGY Location Effectiveness of parasi was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and experimental methods. The participatory rural appraisal was done at village Aralkocha, Purulia (West Bengal) and the experiments were conducted at Central Rice Research Institute, Cuttack (Orissa) and village Aralkocha , dist. Purulia (West Bengal). Paddy is the main crop in this area in kharif. Other than paddy, blackgram, greengram, redgram, niger, mustard, groundnut, tomato, brinjal, cowpea and bhindi are also grown in this area. Yellow stem- borer (attacking in all the growth stages, except flowering and onward stage) of paddy is the most important and major pest problem in lowland cultivation of paddy. The larva enters the stem and feeds upon the internal plant material, thereby disrupting the vascular passage to the terminal portion (which may be leaf or panicle). It results on drying of the portion, causing the symptoms (dead- heart at the vegetative stage and white ear in the mature stage). PRA and field study Efficacy of parasi leaves in different doses was evaluated as compared to the use of insecticide in controlling yellow stem borer by using PRA tools. The data were collected from 38 tribal families residing in the Aralkocha village of Purulia district (West Bengal). The study was done in terms of reduction in the incidence of yellow stem borer and yield of rice. Experiment Experiments were carried out during rainy season (kharif) 2002 at Central Rice Research Institute (CRRI), Cuttack and at farmers’ fields of Aralkocha village. The treatments followed in the experiment of CRRI farm were: (i) use of parasi (75 kg/ha) at 30 days after transplanting (DAT), (ii) use of parasi (75 kg/ha) each at 30,60 Fig. 1. View of karada plant Fig. 2. Yellow stem-borer of rice Table 1. Effect of parasi leaves on white earhead (caused by yellow stem borer) and yield of rice Treatment Reduction in white ear (%) Yield (q/ha) Use of parasi leaves @ 75kg/ha 55 21.0 Use of parasi leaves @ 100kg/ha 63 24.0 Use of parasi leaves @ 150kg/ha 75 31.0 Insecticide application 60 29.0 Control (no treatment) No reduction 11.