 Karnataka 6 Gir Kesar 185 Junagadh (Around Gir Forest) Gujarat 7 Marathwada Kesar 499 Marathwada Division (Aurangabad, Nanded, Parbhani, Latur, Beed, Hingoli, Jalna and Osmanabad) Maharashtra 8 Banganapalle 241 Banganapalli (Kurnool) Andhra Pradesh 9 Alphonso 139 The Konkan region comprising Palghar, Thane, Raigad, Ratnagiri and Sindhudurg districts Maharashtra 10 Zardalu 551 Bhagalpur and surroundings of Banka and Munger district Bihar Mango varieties that have been applied for Geographical Indication 11 Rataul 206 Baghpat Uttar Pradesh 12 Salem Mango 406 Krishnagiri, Salem, Namakkal, Dharmapuri Tamil Nadu ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture (CISH) initiated work for registration of Chausa, Langra and Gaurjeet varieties. CISH also helped in getting G.I. for Dashehari and Rataul which has been advertised for getting GI certification. that aspect of industrial property which refers to the geographical indication referring to a country or to a place situated therein as being the country or place of origin of that product (Intellectual Property India). GI was covered as an element of Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) under Articles 1 (2) and 10 of the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property. The World Trade Organization's (WTO) Convention on Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights regulates July–August 2021 13 G.I. certified mango varieties from different regions of India GI on a global scale. India enacted the Geographical Indications of Goods (Registration and Protection) Act, 1999, as a member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), which took effect on September 15, 2003. GI is a designation given to products that have a specific geographical origin and are distinguished by their unique qualities or reputation as a result of that origin. To function as a GI, a sign must identify the good as coming from a specific location, as well as the product's qualities, characteristics, or reputation being primarily due to the location of origin. Because the product's unique characteristics are determined by the geographical location of production, there is a clear link between the product and its place of origin (WIPO). According to Section 2 (f) of the GIG Act 1999, "goods" include agricultural, natural, and manufactured goods, as well as handicraft and industrial goods. In India, a total of 370 goods have been registered for Geographical Indication. G.I. Certified Mangoes is one of the 112 agricultural goods that have been registered. India is home to many world-famous mango varieties in addition to being the world's largest producer of mangoes. Mango varieties such as Alphonso, Banganapalli, Chausa, Dusseheri, Langra, Himsagar, Vanraj, Sunderja, Mankurad, and Kesar are important varieties grown in various parts of India. Due to their distinct characteristics, Indian Horticulture 14 some of the world's most famous varieties from various Indian regions have been granted Geographical Indication.