 The practice has been reported to be very popular among the people of Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004  Baderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: milk production, salan mishri, root powder, milking period Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2641 Use of bankhori leaves for increasing fat in milk Farmers of Balakot and Mandi area of Poonch district in Jammu and Kashmir chaff the bankhori (Aesculus indica) leaves and feed the milking animals continuously for one week. It increases the fat percentage in milk. Bankhori tree is commonly grown/ found on hilly tracts. Keywords: bankhori leaves, fat in milk Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2392 Use of kachli leaves for increasing milk production Farmers in the uphill area of Rajouri district of Jammu & Kashmir are nomadic and are practicing the animal husbandry occupation. Whenever drop in milk production is noticed, they collect the leaves of kachli and feed it to the animals. This not only improves milk production of the animals but also increases fat content of the milk. Keywords: kachli leaves, increasing milk production, fat Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Putting dung-smeared cloth strip over the teats to prevent lambs from milk sucking Free grazing of goats is a common practice in some pockets of Ahmednagar disrict. While grazing, lambs suck milk from teats and the milk yield is reduced. To overcome this problem, farmers tighten the cloth (smeared with dung) over the teats. Due to bad smell of dung, lambs do not suck milk. Keywords: cloth strip, dung, milk sucking Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  2510 Use of betel leaves and black pepper for treating anorexia in cattle About 5 betel leaves and 10 g black pepper are fed to the cattle orally for treatment of anorexia. This is being used for more than last 100 years. Keywords: betel leaves, black pepper, anorexia Shri Kibson David Kana Heppapuram, P.