 In case no Scientist in a Division is considered suitable for appointment as Head of the Division, a Scientist from any other Institute may be transferred and posted as Head of the Division by the Council in consultation with the Director concerned. [No 8-21/80-Per. IV dated 30-12-82.] ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 31 2. Local Arrangements during the Absence of Directors/Heads of Divisions on Leave or on Deputation If the period of absence of the Director either on leave or on deputa- tion is likely to be more than a month, full officiating arrangement for his post will be made or the current duties of the post entrusted to another scientist by the ICAR. For a shorter period, the Directors of the Institute have been autho- rised to make arrangements keeping in view the following guidelines: (i) The Director of the Institute may identify the next two scientists who could be entrusted with the responsibility of holding charge of the Institute during his absence on leave/deputation. For identifying these scientists, the length of service in the grade next to that of the Director should be the principal criterion. Project Coordinators/Project Directors may not be entrusted with the responsibility to look after the duties of the Director in the latter's absence. If however, the Chief Scientist is the Head of a Regional Research Centre of the Institute he should also be considered while making local arrangements during the absence of the Director. For any deviation in the matter, the Council should be approached. (ii) However, when the absence of the Director on leave/deputation etc. does not exceed one month, one of the senior-most officers of the Institute Headquarters only should be entrusted with the current duties of the Director. It is not necessaiy to get the incharge of the sub-station etc. transferred to the Headquarters just because he happens to be the senior-most in the entire Institute as it will involve dislocation of work. [No. 8-9/77-Per. IV dated 27-12-1979] 3. Posting in Backward, Comparatively Less Developed Areas of the Country Under the provisions of Rule 20(2) of Agricultural Research Service Rules, a Scientist is required to serve a minimum period of time in a back- ward or comparatively less developed area of the country as determfned vide ICAR letter No. 8-18/76-Per. IV dt. 10-1-80. (APPENDIX) (a) Areas in group 'A'—the scheduled areas having a population of 1 lakh and above. (b) Areas in group 'B'—the scheduled areas with a population of 50,000 and more, but less than 1 lakh.