 202 Under Graduate (UG) students had received international trainings by 31st August 2019. Classes and demonstrations by Adjunct Professor for UG students on topics like organic farming and automatic production and processing of mushroom were organized. MoUs (10) have been signed with overseas universities such as University of Arkansas and University of North Georgia for student and faculty training and exposure visit. Skill development programmes for stakeholders were also organized on Agro based Entrepreneurship at National Institute of Rural Development and Panchayati Raj (NIRD & PR), Hyderabad. Key thematic areas of workshops organized under IDP universities were “Identification of industry needs and skill gaps for market driven agriculture”, “Right attitude and gaining confidence”, career opportunities and goal setting, Time management, Interpersonal skills, Leadership skills, Conflict management, Emotional intelligence and stress management, Job search process/ skills, Writing skills, Group discussion and Interview skills. Investment under this component is towards improving the learning outcomes and employability of AU students on one hand and teaching and research performance of the faculty on the other. The international trainings organized for students were done so keeping in mind the ongoing academic sessions of the students. Similarly, for faculty members, their teaching, research and extension commitments were considered as well. The current demand in agriculture academics, research and industries were essentially thought of while organizing workshops and seminars throughout the participating AUs. Centres for Advanced Agricultural Sciences and Technology (CAAST): The activities and research achievements of the AUs under CAAST are spread over a number of thematic areas such as Conservation Agriculture, Precision farming / Farm Mechanization, Secondary Agriculture, Specialty agriculture, Renewable Energy Sources, Integrated Farming System (IFS), Agriculture market intelligence, Good agricultural practices, Hitech/protected cultivation, Climate resilient agriculture, Food safety, Big data analysis and genomics-assisted breeding. In UAS, Bengaluru, 241 fungal isolates were collected from the plants adapted to the cold desert (North Western Himalaya) and screened for different abiotic stress (drought and salinity stress) tolerance. Computer lab, KAB, Thrissur Girl’s Hostel, UAS, Raichur Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on career. Support from the Council was also provided to AUs to take necessary initiatives so as to encourage holistic development of students through sports, self-defence, yoga, personality development talks by eminent people, through workshops, coaching and counselling for clearing competitive exams on all India basis, etc.