 for the benefit of the farming community, and to formulate new research project proposals for Govrnment of India, and Govrnment of Tamil Nadu and other external funding agencies. The Fisheries University in Tamil Nadu has expanded its quality manpower generation with the establishment of three Fisheries College and Research Institutes, and one College of Fisheries Engineering. It also offers paraprofessional courses in three disciplines to cater to the needs of the industries. Postgraduate education in Fisheries is offered in 13 disciplines, the highest in the country. Over 200 graduates pass out from the university every year. Andhra Pradesh Fisheries University (APFU) Andhra Pradesh Fisheries University (APFU), the third fisheries university of India was established in the year 2020, to impart education in different branches of fisheries science; to undertake the extension of Fisheries Science to the rural people of Andhra Pradesh and to promote research, technology refinement programmes in production and post-harvesting technology including processing and marketing of Fisheries and to streamline the Fisheries education, affiliate, recognise colleges imparting Fisheries education; in order to facilitate comprehensive development of fisheries for increased contribution to State’s economy and set benchmark s t a n d a r d s t h r o u g h a p p r o p r i a t e interventions in fisheries p r o d u c t i o n , t e a c h i n g , research and extension. The Andhra Pradesh g o v e r n m e n t has decided to conduct the courses from the current academic year (2022–2023). Regulation of fisheries education There is a substantial need for professionally competent graduates in Fisheries to man the expanding sector. However, fisheries education needs to be regulated as being done by the Veterinary Council of India (VCI) to prevent mushrooming of quality-compromised institutes and to ensure quality in SAUs offering Fisheries courses. There shall be minimum standards established and enforced in terms of infrastructure and faculty strength at all levels in Fisheries institutions to produce competent manpower to man the ever- growing fisheries sector. Vice-Chancellor, Tamil Nadu Dr J Jayalalithaa Fisheries University, Nagapattinam Email: sugumar@tnfu.ac.in, vc@tnfu.ac.in OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 65 A griculture is one of the mainstays of the Indian economy with nearly 70% percent of rural households deriving and sustaining their livelihoods from it. Our Prime Minister has said that the agricultural sector is a key to fulfilling India’s aspirations of becoming a $5 trillion economy by 2025 and achieving the ambitious target set by the Government of India of doubling the income of farmers by 2022-23. Agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for over 52% of the workforce and contributes 16% to the GDP.