 In collaboration with MIT-ADT University, NRCG has trained machine learning models using transfer learning for identification of biotic and abiotic stress conditions on grape leaves and berries. NRCG and MIT-ADT have also developed two prototypes of vineyard monitoring devices with automated trigger, namely Offline Device and Cloud Based Camera enabled Wireless Sensor Network (CWSN) for capturing time-series grapevine image data. NRCG has developed and commercialized a Decision Support System (DSS) for grapes, which provides farm- specific advisory for irrigation and nutrition management, pest and disease risk assessment and advisories. A few large vineyards in Maharashtra have begun using IoT and precision irrigation to optimize water use. Government initiatives like Digital India and various agricultural technology (AgTech) startups are setting the foundation for more widespread adoption of digital viticulture in the coming years. Challenges and drawbacks of digital viticulture While digital viticulture holds immense promise, it is not without its challenges. High initial investment: The cost of sensors, drones, and other digital tools can be prohibitive, especially for small-scale farmers. Drone pilot training is also costly and may not be available in every state. Technical expertise: Implementing and maintaining these technologies requires technical know-how, which may be lacking in rural farming communities. For example, interacting with software for using ground or air-based surveillance systems for monitoring and interpretation & understanding results may require the farmers to be tech-savvy. Data overload: Managing and interpreting large volumes of data can be overwhelming without proper infrastructure and analytic platforms. The recurrent data collection especially image data by surveillance systems may require huge cloud storage. The old data may not be deleted as it will help in analysis over time-series and therefore, data pile-up increases rapidly. Data privacy: As more data is collected about farms and practices, there are concerns about how this data will be used and who will have access to it. The surveillance systems and digital solutions are most likely to be provided by private firms or start-ups to farmers. This data may be sold to input suppliers or traders for market intelligence and therefore, there is a need for protection of user data. SUMMARY Digital viticulture offers the potential to address some of the most important challenges faced by Indian grape farming. By optimising water use, improving pest and disease management, automation of vineyard operations and making vineyards resilient to climate change and untimely weather events, digital viticulture can help secure a sustainable and profitable future for grape farmers. However, to fully realize these benefits, investments in infrastructure, training, and localised technology solutions will be essential.