1% per annum in the production of vegetables. Improvement in irrigation facilities, expansion of protected cultivation system to avert the impact of harsh weather conditions, and adoption of organic farming to maintain soil fertility secure higher stability in both the area under cultivation and production of vegetables. Assam, Manipur, and Mizoram have been found to have brought more land under cultivation of vegetables but have not been able to increase production commensurately. Among these three states, Mizoram’s vegetable production has been the least, growing at 2.7% per annum compared to an 11.1% annual increase in the growth rate of the area under cultivation. Though Assam is the major vegetable producing state in the region with low instability (5.5%) in the area under cultivation, yet the state has recorded a are some of the measures that may be undertaken to negligible per annum increase of 0.6% in production with moderate instability (17.29%) during the period. The small-sized scattered holdings in the state are a major hindrance in adopting large-scale production using modern technology. The region as a whole has witnessed 4.4 % and 2.9% annual growth rates in area and production of vegetables respectively with a low instability index. This is an encouraging trend as farmers can diversify and adopt multi-cropping which will yield sustained income throughout the year besides making the region self-sufficient. Arunachal Pradesh and Sikkim have recorded stable growth in the area under cultivation and production of spices during the period. Spice cultivation, thus, appears to be a viable alternative in the farm sector and should be encouraged in these states. For example, one of the major spices of Sikkim is ginger. ginger production has registered a 2.1% per annum growth rate. Spice cultivation also appears to have very good prospects in Assam. The state has recorded 9.1% per annum growth in the area under spice cultivation and a 19% annual growth rate in production. The average yield of the major spices, i.e., ginger, turmeric, chilli, and black pepper has increased over the years in the state. production of two of the major spice crops i.e., turmeric and chilli cultivated in Meghalaya and Nagaland. The region as a whole has witnessed a lower annual growth rate in production (3.4%) compared to the area under cultivation (7.6%). Spice production is found to be moderately unstable at 20.17%. This indicates that the region is yet to realise its true potential in Spice production. Organically produced spices of the region, namely, the Lakadong turmeric which has high curcumin content, the less fibrous Nadia ginger, and the highly pungent Bird’s eye chilli and King chilli have niche markets both within and outside the country.