 Varieties 1 Orobelle 1 California Wonder 2 SV 1865-PB 2 Yolo Wonder 3 Laxmi 3 Arka Gaurav 4 Indra 4 Arka Mohini 5 Asha 5 Arka Basanth 6 Hunbington 6 Arka Athyla 7 Swarna Gold 8 Bomby (2) Semi-climate control polyhouse: In this type of poluhouse, the structure frame is made up of galvanized iron pipes. Exhaust fans are used for ventilation, these are thermostatically controlled. Cooling pad is used for humidifying the air entering the polyhouse. These are suitable for cultivation during mild winter and mild summer for the low hills or plains of north western part of india. (3) Climate control polyhouse: The fully climate control polyhouses are completely based on sensors. Their frames are made up of iron or aluminium having designs are either dome shaped or cone shaped. These are highly durable but 5-6 times costlier. Growing medium used in these types of polyhouse are peat, perlite, vermiculite, rockwool. In India coco fibres and rice husks are used as growing media as these materials are cheaper. Fertigation and pesticide sprays are done by fogging machine. In these polyhouses, capsicum can be grown throughout the year with 3-4 harveting per year and with 90 % A grade fruit quality. (4) Net house: These simple-frame structures are of two types, namely, shade nets and insect-proof nets. Shade nets are perforated plastic materials used to cut down the solar radiation and prevent scorching or wilting of leaves caused by marked temperature increases within the leaf tissue from strong sunlight. These nets are available in different shading intensities ranging from 25% to 75%. Insect-proof nylon nets are available in different intensities of perforations, ranging from 25 mesh to 60 mesh. Nets of 40 or higher mesh are effective means to control entry of most flying insects and save crop from diseases. These structures permit early planting of capsicum without the risk of vector. Higher mesh size, however, reduces the air exchange of the structure. Now-a-days UV stabilized nets are available which have a longer life. Semi-control type polyhouse at CPCT-IARI, New Delhi Given the year-round demand for capsicum, farmers can choose one of the suitable protected structure options. Indian Horticulture 6 Hi-tech nursery for capiscum Growing media used in hi-tech nurseries are highly modified mixtures of organic and inorganic materials. With reference to plant propagation, growing media are defined as all those solid materials, other than soil, which alone or in mixtures can guarantee better conditions than agricultural soil (for one or more aspects). Mainly three viz, coco peat, vermiculite and perlite are being commercially used as a rooting media for raising the nursery in the high-tech nursery greenhouse. These ingredients are mixed in the volume ratio of 3:1:1 before filling in the trays.