 yy The Director-General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research will have the power to relax any of the conditions mentioned above, for reasons to be recorded in writing. liusmmntsfthnianuncilfgicultualRsach   

  Indian Council of Agricultural Research New Delhi ICAR Technologies Vaccines for Livestock AND Poultry Editing Dr R.K. Singh Dr B.P. Mishra Dr G. Saikumar Dr Ashok Kumar Dr Jyoti Misri Dr Arvind A. Sonwane © Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi Published by The Director, Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture, Indian Council of Agricultural Research, KAB-I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi - 110012 & printed by M/s. Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-1, New Dehli-110028. ICAR Technologies Vaccines for Livestock and Poultry April 2020 iii message Livestock sector is a key subsector of the Indian agriculture. It is an important livelihood source for farmers, supporting agriculture and contributing to the health and nutritional security of the household as well as supplementing incomes with employment opportunities. It is emerging as an important growth engine of the Indian economy and has registered a growth of 6.1% per annum. The most effective way to increase livestock productivity and minimize losses from disease morbidity and mortality is by monitoring health, and diagnosis and control of diseases by using effective vaccines. The R & D work on veterinary biologicals in the country has led to successful eradication of three important diseases viz, rinderpest, African horse sickness and contagious bovine pleuropneumonia from the country. Control of several bacterial and viral diseases of cattle and buffaloes (FMD, HS, BQ, anthrax), sheep and goats (PPR, sheeppox, goatpox, enterotoxaemia), pigs (classical swine fever) and poultry (Newcastle disease, infectious bursal disease, avian influenza, infectious bronchitis) is being done through the use of prophylactic vaccines developed by Animal Science Institutes of ICAR. Biologicals developed have been transferred to various commercial manufacturers and state biological production units to ensure adequate supply in the country. The Animal Science Institutes of the Council are continuously toiling to develop better, apt and effective vaccines for livestock and poultry diseases and to improve and refine the current ones in the light of epidemiological findings and contemporary advancement in technology. This is evident from the list of vaccines compiled in this document that includes a sub-viral particle-based recombinant vaccine. Efforts are also going on for the development of DIVA- capable marker vaccines, combined vaccines and thermo-stable vaccines. I am confident that this informative compilation of vaccine technologies developed by the ICAR will help all those engaged in animal health management and disease control in the country. [T.