2%) of the surveyed respondents were adopting AI in the study area. • Reproductive parameters were: mean age at first conception, 31.98 months; mean age at first calving, 42.03 months (mean service period 110.81 ± 2.89 days); buffaloes (63.03%) conceived within 90 days postpartum; mean calving interval, 420.80 days (46.18% buffaloes had calving interval of less than 400 days). • Calving related disorders were—retained placenta (2.41%), followed by prolapse (1.93%), dystocia (1.59%) and abortion (0.69%). • 9.47% of buffaloes were anestrus followed by repeat breeder (6.34%), whereas 9.69% of heifers were reported to be delayed pubertal followed by repeat breeder (6.79%) in the surveyed area. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 74 transferred in 46 recipients resulting in 3 pregnancies which were confirmed with ultrasonography; however two pregnancies aborted at 1.5 and 3.5 months and one live birth was recorded. This cloned calf named ‘Hisar-Gaurav’ was obtained from donor somatic cell isolated from tail of a superior Murrah bull. Stem cell technology: Stem cell technology in buffalo was mainly focussed for optimization conditions for gene transfer (GFP) into somatic cells and buffalo fetal fibroblasts. The buffalo fibroblasts were electroporated with GFP construct at 300 volt for 10 ms with 1 pulse. In five trials, ~30-40% cells were integrated with GFP construct. Research work for the generation of induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells from buffalo fetal fibroblasts through non-viral approaches was also initiated. The primary buffalo fetal fibroblasts (BFFs) were cultured from a 2 to 3 month-old fetus obtained from a slaughterhouse. Presumptive buffalo iPS cells were maintained on gelatinized plates and enzymatically sub- passaged after confluency. BFFs and buffalo iPS cells were cultured in a humidified atmosphere consisting of 5% CO2 in air at 37°C. Estrus synchronization for AI: A new method of synchronization of estrus/ovulation was developed based on kisspeptin in bovine species. The synchronization method based on kisspeptin (kisspeptin: day 0; PGF2á: day 7 and kisspeptin: day 9), resulted in inducing better growth of follicles than ovsynch protocol. The newly developed method was better than the conventional ovsynch method in terms of per cent ovulation in the treated animals. Scientific validation of ‘Doka’: Efforts were made to scientifically validate the traditional method of ‘Doka’. Background information on the practice was collected through personal interviews and questionnaires conducted on over 200 buffalo farmers of different villages of Haryana. Regular watching of animal is essential for identification of Doka. Biochemical analysis in serum and milk of ‘Doka’ samples suggested presence of lower serum albumin and phosphorus concentrations. In milk, total protein (g/dl) was significantly lower in ‘Doka’ samples. Ovarian ultrasonography indicated that number of large follicles (>10.