 Kuldeep, PAU, Ludhiana presented the work “Creation of Novel Genetic Resources through Alien and Exotic Introgression for Higher Productivity and Resistance in Wheat and Rice”. Salient achievements: • A collection of 376 European winter wheats procured from National Institute of Botany, UK included commercial winter wheat varieties from Germany (95), France(195) England (81) and other countries (5). Data on days to flowering and resistance to leaf rust and stripe rust were recorded. Most of the genotypes were resistant to stripe rust and a relatively small number showed resistance to leaf rust. 6 • Inspite of the narrow window of crossing, a large number of crosses (>250) were attempted. Three elite spring wheats were used : PBW 621, HD 2967 and PBW 343+Lr24+Lr28+Yr10+Yr15. Out of this set, F1 seed obtained for crosses with PBW 621 were planted at Keylong for backcrossing. • Selected Ae. tauschii accessions were crossed with T. durum cvs. in 2010-11 and F1s were crossed with hexaploid wheat and also allowed to self in 2011-12. Spontaneous doubling of chromosomes occurred due to the formation of restitution nuclei. A set of crosses were performed with T. monococcum (A genome species). Fifty two embryorescued plants from Ae. Tauschi x PBW 621 crosses were obtained and shifted to off-season location. • About 2500 introgression lines derived from the following complex cross: ‘(Ttriticale x Ph locus suppressor) x recipient bread wheat’ with the objective of inducing translocations between rye and bread wheat chromosomes. • Screening of wild species of rice (Oryza punctata) for brown planthopper (BPH) was undertaken in glass house in the month of April. Out of ~2000 accessions about 1000 accessions have been screened so far. One O. barthi, 27 O. nivara and 10 O. rufipogon accessions have shown resistance. Expert comments: • It was suggested that negative correlation of QTLs may also be recorded. The promising F1 lines may also be sent to National Genetic Screening Centre’s for multi-location response. • The capacity building of promising and bright Ph.D. students may be given training for skills and knowledge development in molecular breeding and marker assisted selection. 8. Dr. B. Malik, UAS, Bangalore made a presentation on “Capacity Building in Taxonomy of Insects and Mites”. Salient achievements: • Initiated studies on Hemiptera, Diptera, Hynenoptera and Acari. • Prepared identification keys to most of the economically important orders of insects and mites to be used for the training programmes. • One training programme has been scheduled for 25 July- 14 August, for which identification keys to families of different orders have been prepared. Expert comments: • The centre was requested to identify the faculty members of SAUs involved in the teaching of insects taxonomy so that they can be asked to undergo customized training in the field. 7 The meeting ended with the vote of thanks by Dr. C.