 Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Multilocation field trials under AICRP carried out. More than 1000kg produced every year for supply to farmers, FLDs and treating seeds produced by IIOR 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Technology ready for transfer with complete data required as per CIB &RC and Letter of Intent (LOI) obtained from 2 private firms 6. Benefits: Trichoderma WP formulation has longer shelf life (more than 18 months), effective against many plant diseases (broad host range), Trichoderma strain is a symbiotic root colonizer, induces defense response in plants against pathogen and promotes plant growth. The production process supports high yield and desiccation tolerant viable propagules. Trichoderma harzianum Th4d WP formulation can be produced at a low cost 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseed Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad- 500030 57 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Trichoderma asperellum Ta DOR 7316 5% WP 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Trichoderma asperellum Ta DOR 7316 5% WP; shelf life of more than 18 months 2. Target pests and delivery system: Phytophthora seedling blight, Macrophomina root rot and Fusarium wilt of safflower and castor 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: Multi-locational field trials are being conducted at AICRP centres of Safflower and Castor 5. Whether licensed to private companies, If yes, details thereof: Technology ready for transfer; complete data required as per CIB &RC generated, patent filed 6. Benefits : The wettable powder of thermo-tolerant strain of Trichoderma asperellum TaDOR7316 when applied as seed treatment in safflower under drought condition is able to control soil borne diseases in safflower and gave high seed yield. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Oilseed Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad- 500030 58 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Metarhizium anisopliae ICAR-NBAIR Ma 4 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Metarhizium anisopliae ICAR-NBAIR Ma 4 strain has been identified as a promising microbial biocontrol agent for management of white grubs (Holotrichia serrata & Holotrichea Consanguinea) in sugarcane. Talc formulation (2% W. P) has been developed with shelf life of 12 months. It is ecologically safe and do not have any deleterious effects on non-target organisms, other living organisms in the environment, unlike chemical insecticides. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Sugarcane Soil application of M. anisopliae (NBAIR Ma-4) enriched Farm Yard Manure. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): All 4.