The efficiency of this superovulation protocol was validated in exotic (Rambouillet), crossbred (Bharat Merino and Fine wool synthetic) and native (Kheri and Malpura) ewes. This protocol was successful in inducing superovulation in >70% of treated or programmed ewes with an ovulation rate (ovulation per ewe) ranging from 6-10. Cervical moulds of adult native ewes were prepared for studying the anatomical features. The silicone moulds represent the potential space within the cervical canal and provided the most useful anatomical information for developing suitable transcervical catheter. Progesterone impregnated vaginal sponges (laboratory made) @ 350 mg P4 showed higher estrous response (81%) as compared to 300 mg P4 (69%) and without P4 (36%) during spring. While during autumn the lower dose level of 300 mg showed better response. Progesterone treatment improved ovulation and lambing in native and crossbred ewes. An attempt was made to design and fabricate simple device suitable for enrichment of ram semen into X - and Y- bearing fractions. Initially the sperm motility and density of the upper portion was less but later on these increased. The sperm motility and density were more at the bottom of the column. Optimization of this technique is in progress. Equine Effect of both age and sex was observed on thyroid hormone levels, haematological and biochemical indices in healthy Kathiawari horses. In females, haemoglobin level was significantly lower in yearlings than adult animals while TLC was higher in yearlings than equids of other age groups. Sex had effect only on TEC, MCHC and MCH in animals of 1-3 years age group (young stock), while PCV affected adults of both female and male equids. Age and sex influenced activities of enzymes. CKN, GGT, GOT, GPT and LDH activities were significantly higher in young and adult equids than animals of other age groups in Kathiawari horses while activity of alkaline phosphatase was significantly high in yearlings than equids belonging to other age groups in both males and females. However, activity of SDH was unaltered due to both sex and age factor. Albumin, BID, BIT, cholesterol, creatinine, protein, triglyceride and uric acid were statistically different in various age and sex groups of horses. Calcium, magnesium and chloride were almost same in various age groups of male horses. Significantly higher levels of T3 and T4 were observed in both male and female yearlings as compared to equids of other age groups in both the sexes. Draughtability studies were carried out with indigenous donkeys carrying pack load equal to 40%, 50% and 66% of their body weight for different time intervals under work-rest-work cycle. Physiological, biochemical, hematological indices, blood gases levels were evaluated during this study. Work-rest-work cycle is better than continuous work plan for more and efficient utilization of donkey’s draught capacity; and the total work hours could be extended under this work-rest-work cycle.