98 USD Millions), and processed Cucumber and Gherkins (`1487.30 crores/ 199.46 USD Millions). Onions, Mixed Vegetables, Potatoes, Tomatoes, and Green Chilli contribute largely to the vegetable export basket. Major destinations for the Indian fresh fruits and vegetables are Bangladesh, UAE, Nepal, Netherlands, Malaysia, Sri Lanka, the UK, Oman and Qatar. Major destinations for the Indian processed fruits and vegetables are USA, UAE, China, Netherlands, UK and Saudi Arab. Though India’s share in the global market is nearly 1% only, there is an increasing acceptance of horticulture produce from the country. In order to enhance export of vegetables, there is a need to promote IndGAP certification, cold chain infrastructure and other quality assurance measures. Indian Council of Agricultural Research and AUs have succeeded in development of large number of varieties and hybrids and consequently production has increased. The productivity of vegetable crops needs to be improved further to the expected level. Development of agro-climatic zone specific varieties with longer shelf life, suitable for processing and having multiple disease resistance are the current needs. Vegetable based cropping systems developed by National Agriculture Research and Education System, fitting into crop rotations in different agro-climatic zones need to be adopted. In order to produce safe vegetable crops, upscaling the biofertilizers, biopesticides, biostimulants and green chemistries for crop production and protection is important. I am happy to present this special issue on vegetable crops on the occasion when Indian Society of Vegetable Crops is celebrating its Golden Jubilee year with the message of furtherance of science and technology led vegetable production in the country. This can be achieved through the strategies, viz. to ensure technology- led development of horticulture, to make it available to the citizens at affordable price; ensure the availability of new cultivars and technologies, which can withstand against biotic and abiotic pressure and provide better profitability to the farmers in the given situation and location; identification of new genes and commensuration of technologies and understanding its interaction with environment to have proofing against climate change to achieve resilience; development of cultivars and technologies, which are rich in nutrients and vitamins and can protect against many diseases for better healthcare of the people, considering that balanced food would be a medicine of future; develop technologies which are socially compatible, politically feasible and ecologically sustainable and provide environmental services and develop human resources at par excellence, having competence and commitment to take the challenges. (Dr Suresh K Malhotra) Editorial March–April 2023 3 Message Celebrating 50 years of ISVS V egetables are important source of nutritional security and are an essential component of our diet.