17%. Its identity was worked out and the sequence deposited in GenBank (NCBI) with an Accession No. KT824429. It showed 100% compatibility with mancozeb, azoxystrobin, cymoxanil + mancozeb, metalxyl + mancozeb at 100, 200 or 300 ppm. A new pest Lema pectoralis Baly (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) has been identified which attacks the indigenous Eulophia andamanensis orchid. ❑ 8. Livestock Management Nutrition Feed informatics: Real time information of animal population and feed resources is vital for the development of livestock sector. Information technology based tools are being developed to improve data collection and compilation, and estimate feed and fodder resources availability in terms of concentrates, green and dry fodder in all the mandals/taluks of India. The database would be useful in forecasting the surplus/ deficit at micro level in real time to assist the planners/ administrators. A website was designed based on open source software platform for real time collection and compilation of livestock data. Probiotic from gut of Asom native chicken: Isolates found positive for Lactobacillus genus specific primers were evaluated for probiotic properties. Finally, top three isolates AJ3, ACE5 and GJ1 were evaluated through feeding trial in commercial broilers. The best performance was exhibited in diets supplemented with isolate AJ3 as probiotic. The culture typing of these isolates at IMTECH, Chandigarh revealed that isolate AJ3 and ACE5 had high similarity with Lactobacillus reuteri. The isolate AJ3 may therefore be recommended to be used as probiotic in poultry diet for commercial poultry production. Nutrient bioavailability and productivity Sheep: Boron supplementation improved calcium utilisation, immunity and growth performance, but did not affect tissue architecture of visceral organs. Goat: Supplementation of trace mineral,viz. Cu and Zn was found associated with rapid testicular growth, changes in LH secretory pattern, a gradual increase in blood testosterone, initiation of spermatogenesis and improvement of semen quality and fertility in goats. Poultry: The amino acids supplementation into 18d embryonated eggs resulted in significant improvement in body weight gain. In contrast, in ovo injection of nano Zn did not alter the growth performance, gut development and immunity. Feed supplements Boostermin supplementation @ 2.0% in concentrate mixture improved daily milk production and the reproductive performance of cows in the field conditions. Multi-nutrient liquid supplement can economize the ration by safely reducing 20% of the concentrate mixture with substantial improvement in growth rate (~11%), antioxidant status, immunity and reproductive parameters in Murrah buffalo heifers. A mixture of tree leaves (jackfruit, papaya and bahera) supplementation @ 8 and 16% of DMI reduced methane production by 13% in goats without affecting nutrient utilization.