 Lab-to-Land Program (LLP) The Lab-to-Land Program was launched in its golden jubilee year by ICAR in 1979 for transfer of viable technologies from laboratories to the farmers’ fields. Under this program, 50,000 small and marginal farm households and landless agricultural labourers were adopted for their economic upliftment by the research institutes and agricultural universities. The activities under Lab-to-Land project included creation of a farm plan, training, demonstration, and field days. The programme also served as a feedback mechanism to the scientists and extension functionaries. The programme aimed at assisting selected farm families to develop individual farm plan for improving their whole farming system. The effort of the participating institutes in transfer of technology was expected to be accelerated and intensified through this programme without creating any additional infrastructure (Singh et al. 2006). Over the years, ICAR evolved an effective and well-tested frontline extension system at the grass-root level, which is exemplary and admired all over the world. Mahatma’s principle of cooperation and partnership is deeply embedded in the KVK scheme of ICAR. The first Krishi Vigyan Kendra (KVK) was established in Pondicherry in 1974. The earlier frontline extension programmes were merged into the Krishi Vigyan Kendra scheme in 1982. 5.2. National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) The National Agriculture Technology Project (NATP) was launched with financial support from the World Bank in 1998 to strengthen and complement the existing resources of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) and augment its output. Major objective of this project was to accelerate the flow of technology from research and extension to farmer, improve location specific and robust technology dissemination, decentralize decision making and strengthen the public extension system. Institute Village Linkage Programme (IVLP) enabled technology assessment and refinement in participatory mode with direct interaction of technology generators with the end users in villages (Sulaiman and Van den Ban 2000). The project helped to generate a basket of location specific and small production system-oriented technologies which are more productive, profitable and gender sensitive for drudgery reduction of farm women. Technology integration involves a set of activities that must happen when new scientific agricultural information is put to use in any farm production system (Singh et. al., 2003). The project served three distinct types of agriculture, namely, commercial, green revolution and Complex, Diverse and Risk prone (CDR) agriculture. The Agricultural Technology Information Centre (ATIC) was started under NATP in 1999. The Centre provides diagnostic services, agro-advisory and inputs like seeds, plant materials, etc. through single window system. The ATICs were designed as demand-driven, financially viable models (Mondal 2013). 5.3.