 This programme be made mandatory for all those scientists aspiring for Research Management Positions during their career in the ICAR system. It is suggested that the NAARM must regularly organize a Short Orientation Programme (about seven to ten days) for senior level functionaries such as: Vice-Chancellors, Deans, Directors in the SAUs and the Directors, ADGs and DDGs in the ICAR system. This will instill much needed confidence in their managerial responsibility for yet better performance. 6.6 Selection to Research Management Positions (RMPs) Selection of Directors and research managers is a more challenging task. It is very important aspect for the future of any research institute/organization. Selection process for RMPs must, therefore, take into consideration the professional contributions, leadership qualities and the over all acceptance as well as recognition of Research Managers/Scientists in their profession. The Search-cum-Selection process for the RMPs, especially for the senior positions at the level of Directors of Deemed Universities, other Directors in equivalent grade, and the Deputy Directors General be henceforth made more consultative, transparent and rigorous. The Committee, therefore, proposes that a two tier system for the selection of senior management positions be henceforth adopted. First, a Preliminary screening by the ASRB of 3-5 potential candidates and then a consultative process involving Senior Scientists and Research Managers of the concerned Institutes/Directorate/Divisions at the Headquarters for further short- listing/prioritization based on a staff seminar, reference letters as well as personal discussion with referees, personal discussion of the candidates with senior management staff and second, a final interview and selection process by the ASRB. Similar pattern, being adopted in the CGIAR International Research Centers, has been found very useful and has ensured much needed credibility and acceptance of the selected persons by the system. 18 6.7 Review of Sabbatical Leave Provision To promote their professional competence and excellence as well as lateral movements of scientists, the ICAR had framed Sabbatical Leave Rules for its scientists in August, 1996. However, these rules somehow have not served the purpose for which these were intended. The objective of these rules was to encourage lateral movement of ICAR Scientists to go to other institutions or organizations in India or abroad to have new exposure and to undertake specialized study, research, training/teaching or other related professional activities for enhancing their professional skills. Unfortunately, very few scientists have availed this provision. There is, therefore, a need to revisit the Sabbatical Leave Rules and make them more attractive or even compulsory to avail atleast once in the service career of the scientist.