 The Society for Conservation of Mango Diversity (SCMD), empowered the community farmers to appreciate market value and uniqueness of mango diversity as well as on-farm conservation and effective measures for protecting farmers’ variety of the area. Thousands of grafted plants were made in the community nurseries for planting in the orchards. Many farmers came forward to plant these varieties as they could understand the value of unique varieties. The varieties with potential for pickle making were identified and a community based evaluation was made to make the farmers understand about the selection of pickle varieties. Important role of custodian farmers Mango custodian farmers are farmers who maintain, adapt, and promote varieties and related knowledge over time and space in their orchards and are recognized locally for their efforts. Farmers have played a key role in the development of mango varieties and practice on- farm conservation of traditional non-commercial varieties as custodian farmers. In India, local farmers, nurserymen and landlord contributed towards evolving and conserving the varietal diversity. Various motivational factors play role in prompting the custodian farmers for conservation of mango varieties. Diversity fairs promote conservation Mango mela, festival or exhibitions are common and provide platform where farmers can showcase their unique varieties and popularize them in different cities of the country. With the help of CBO many good practices to save these varieties were implemented. Mango Festivals are important events in the country and the participants from other states also participate in the event. At many places more than a lakh people may visit to see varieties in this unique event for which not only farmers but all mango lovers wait, for enjoying the event. It is rightly said that it is a festival where not only mango fruits are displayed but several value added products are also sold made from the king of fruits. Mango diversity shows have their own importance and especially for people who conserve rare mango varieties and wait for this event because they can exhibit the heritage available in their orchards. Many farmers bring their fruits to sell in fair and the urban masses happily purchase these excellent uncommon mangoes at a premium price, many times more than commercial varieties like Dashehari. At this event, mango lovers help each other in exchanging rare mango variety plants. Mango traders also don't miss this event because they get contract renewed with the progressive farmers who have capacity to produce and supply high quality mangoes for getting premium price in domestic and export markets. ICAR-CISH organized a number of diversity shows where several hundred mango varieties were displayed. This event is organised to motivate those who are continuously making effort to augment mango varieties in orchards.