 The grain contains several anti- oxidants that help in fighting several diseases (Kofuji et al. 2012; Sharma et al. 2016). Proso millet has 11.6% protein content of the total dry matter, which is on par with wheat protein except that it has no gluten. It has a good distribution of carbohydrate, fatty acid profiles, minerals and vitamins. The important minerals are copper and magnesium and essential amino acids are methionine, leucine and isoleucine (Kalinova and Moudry 2006). B6 and folic acids are present in significant level in the grain. Similar to other millets, regular eating of proso millet showed better glycemic responses and good for diabetics (Park et al. 2008). Overall, millets are the wholesome food in terms of good carbohydrates, proteins, fats, minerals and vitamins. Millets also have a substantial amount of several forms of anti-oxidants to prevent and protect the body from variety of diseases. The anti-oxidants are much needed for the current stress-related lifestyle. Regular consumption of millet helps in either managing or preventing a range of diseases and disorders in heart, kidney, respiratory, skin, stomach, nervous system, immunity system and so on (Saleh et al. 2013; Chandrasekara and Shahidi 2012). Considering the high nutritional value of the millets, all-cereal-based diet can be replaced for better food diversity and nutritional security. 3. Nutri-cereal technologies 3.1. Sorghum technologies “As a result of the painstaking researches of scientists the importance of vitamins in our diet has been brought to light and some of these substances, which were at one time considered to be mysteries, have also been prepared in a pure state. But as night follows day some evil also followed this very laudable work of the scientists. There came a large number of artificial preparations in the market, which brought fortunes to some at the cost of many poor men. These artificial preparations should by all means be avoided. Nature has provided ample amount for us - even for the poorest amongst us” (MK Gandhi, Harijan 15-2-1936). Three-grain sorghum hybrids [(CSH 37, CSH 38, Jaicar Gold (CSH 41)], and two varieties [Jaicar Heera (CSV 36) and Jaicar Sona (CSV 39)] were released for increasing the productivity in rainfed cultivation and one grain sorghum hybrid (CSH 39R) has been released for Rabi season. Our sorghum cultivars produced 69% more grain and 36% more stover yield as documented from the Frontline demonstrations (FLD). Our technologies generated a net return of Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 124 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Rs. 43,266 ha-1, almost double, compared to the local checks (Rs. 21,481 ha-1), which would help in attracting the sorghum farmers. Tribal sorghum farmers were benefitted with 60% higher grain and 43% higher fodder yield by cultivating high-yielding cultivars compared to their traditional sorghum cultivars.