 • FCV tobacco – horse gram sequence gave highest net return among various tobacco based cropping systems evaluated at Shimoga in Karnataka. • Application of Alachlor @ 0.75 kg a.i./ha two weeks before sowing followed by one hand weeding at 25 days after sowing is recommended for effective control of weeds in FCV tobacco nursery in Shimoga area of Karnataka. • Application of 75% recommended N + 2.5 kg Azotobacter + 2.5 kg Azospirillum + 2.5 t FYM/ha to FCV tobacco is recommended for higher yields and net returns to the farmers of Shimoga region in Karnataka. • Application of 30 kg P2O5/ha once in three years is recommended for FCV tobacco in Shimoga area of Karnataka light soils for soils testing high for P as against the earlier general recommendation of 60 kg P2O5/ha every year. • Application of zinc sulphate @ 2 g/m2 in tobacco nursery of light soil area of Karnataka enhanced the cured leaf yields of FCV tobacco. • Significant improvement in seed yield, oil content and oil yield of chewing tobacco variety, A 145 was observed due to S application at Shimoga. • Campoletis chloridae is the key mortality factor for lepidopterous pests in tobacco at Shimoga in Karnataka light soils. FCV tobacco: Karnataka state ‐ Karnataka Light Soils ‐ Hunsur area • Growing finger millet or castor in rabi season preceded by FCV tobacco in kharif was found to be more remunerative at Hunsur in Karnataka. • The present recommendation of 120 kg K2O/ha to FCV tobacco will continue under Mysore conditions in KLS as the K content of cured leaf and burn related K were not significantly increased due to application of potassium at higher doses of 140 & 180 kg K2O /ha. • Border crop of bajra with one spray of imidacloprid was effective in reducing aphid infestation in FCV tobacco in Karnataka light soil area and recommended for aphid management in Karnataka light soil area. 

INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH KRISHI BHAWAN : NEW DELHI No. 21-23/2009-CDN ENDORSEMENT Dated the 2-3> June, 2009 The Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (DOPT) has issued the O. M. No. 210111112005-Estt.(A)(Pt.II) dated 14.5.2009 regarding maintenance and preparation Annual Performance Appraisal Report communication of all entries for fairness and transparency in public administration. The above mentioned a.M. is being uploaded on the ICAR Web-Site www.icar.org.in for information and further guidance. a()~\;.-<~ - . (v. D. NANIWADEKAR) Under Secretary (GAC) DISTRIBUTION :- I l. 2. II 1. 2. 3. 4. ~ 6. 7. 8. 9. ICAR Research Institutes etc :- All DirectorslProject Directors of all ICAR InstituteslNational Research CentreslBureaux. Project Coordinators/Coordinated Res Projects/Zonal Coordinators. ICAR Headquarters :- OSD to DG, ICARIPPS to Secretary, ICARIPS to FA (DARE). Chairman ASRBIND, NAIPlDirector(DIPA), Pusa, New Delhi. All Deputy Directo~Generalof ICAR. DS(A)IDS(GAC)lDirector(Fin.)/Director(Per.), ICAR. Shri Hans Raj, ISO, (DIPA) KAB-I for putting in the ICAR Web-Site.