 The Government of India has been placing increased emphasis on expanding the network of FPOs. The study has been completed and a policy note has been prepared. One research paper and newspaper article has also been published on this theme. The positive impact of FPOs are a) adoption of technologies, b) uptake of good agricultural practices, c) increase in productivity and gross income, d) reduction in cost of production, e) other benefits are like new information on cheaper inputs, better capacity to deal with risks of pest attacks and collapse in market prices etc. However, there are some challenges poses to FPOs are a) limited extend of technology adoption, b) high cost of technology, c) limited attraction through product differentiation, d) dynamism in leadership and e) lack of proper monitoring and evaluation. Bio-fortified staples IFPRI has conducted a study on exploring opportunities for introducing biofortified staples in diets of poor in Bihar and Odisha. The findings reveal the following: a) replacement of ordinary variety of wheat with the zinc- and iron-rich variety WB 02 is likely to increase zinc intake by 31.3 percent and iron intake by about 33.3 percent. b) replacement of ordinary variety of rice with the zinc-rich variety DRR Dhan is likely to increase zinc intake by about 61.4 percent. Outputs from this activity includes three white papers and two newspaper articles. Capacity building and policy communication IFPRI organizes several capacity-building workshops in collaboration with ICAR and State Agricultural Universities (SAUs). IFPRI also facilitates and supports participation of scientists from ICAR institutes and State Agricultural Universities in international conferences and seminars. In 2019, five such training programs in partnership with ICAR institutes and state agricultural universities were conducted and about 150 participants were trained. These include: ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 39 i. Impact Assessment of Agriculture and Rural Development Programs in Lucknow ii. Impact Evaluation of Agricultural Research and Extension in ICAR-IARI iii. Training program on the International Model for Policy Analysis of Agricultural Commodities and Trade (IMPACT) in ICAR-NIAP iv. Workshop on Quantitative Techniques for Impact Assessment in PAU, Ludhiana v. Online training on simulation modelling. Similarly, four policy communication activities were organized this year, which include (i) social transfers to revitalize rural India, (ii) mapping the adoption of improved cultivars of major horticultural crops and assessing their impact in India, (iii) loan waiving versus income support schemes: challenges and the way forward and (iv) panel discussion on direct benefit transfer (DBT) of agricultural subsidies.