 An intra and inter levels of network of university, agricultural, and other scientific research institutions can be created so as to further enhance opportunities of testing and strengthening such scientific practices. This network can Success story Intervention: Agrobiodiversity conservation for multiple outcomes Farmers of Rajasthan (Pali district) are exposed to multiple stresses which include climate change, land degradation (soil and water salinity), lower socioeconomic status and poor access to institutional resources. As a result, the agriculture and associated livelihood are always at higher risks. Although, farmers try to explore and adopt scientific knowledge and external inputs to adapt such challenges, they also prefer to use local knowledge of conserving and using indigenous biodiversity, including crop varieties and agroforestry system. In this context, for instance it has been learned with the farmers of villages (Kharchia and other) under Pali district that they conserve landrace of wheat called Kharchia, which is highly adaptive to soil and water salinity stress. Farmers perceive that, despite relatively high risks of soil and water salinity and harsh climate, this variety provides on average 2.0 to 3.5 tonnes yield/ ha. Moreover, Kharchia wheat has been integral part of traditional food systems and socio-cultural institutions of these farmers. Similarly, for adapting high climatic risks, poor irrigation facility, and high soil and salinity stress farmers have evolved indigenous agroforestry system led by khejri (Prosopis cineraria) with which bajra, sesame and other crops are taken. With this, a network of micro-environment is evolved by the farmers which not only contribute to crop production and ensuring food security, but also enable farmers to enhance soil health, conserving local biodiversity to adapt climate change in arid environment. These two examples of agrobiodiversity conservation indicate that community based efforts and local knowledge are crucial in sustaining agricultural systems. A farmer with Kharchia landrace (agro-biodiversity) adapted in dryland salinity stress; khejari (Prosopis cineraria) with sesame (Sesamum orientale) based agroforestry system (blend of local and scientific knowledge). Indian Farming 46 June 2023 help to train future agricultural scientists and extension agents, farmers and other stakeholders. In this regard, the extension services may further enable researchers and farmers to share the sustainable agriculture knowledge and technologies. Farmers can embrace such scientific sustainable agricultural practices to increase not only their agricultural production, but also may reduce environmental impacts, and improve resilience. The public and private sector collaboration can ease this process, and can also create sustainable agriculture policy and market incentives. Information technology has great role to enhance reach and enabling adaptations of sustainable agricultural practices.