 The weeds in garlic can be initially controlled by the application of pendimelhalin @ 0.8-1.0 litres in 250 litres of water or 1.2- 1.6ml/ ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 52 litre of water for one acre followed by one hand weeding after 45 days of planting. Peas The optimum temperature for its growth and development is 10째C to 18째C. Hot and dry weather interferes with the filling of pods. Early season varieties: Arkel, Azad P-3, Matar Ageta-7 Main season varieties: Arka Karthik, Azad P-l, P-89, Bonneville: Sowing time in subtropical zone for Early crop is Last week of October and for main crop is Mid October to Mid-November. Under Intermediate (Low), Mid-September to October is best time and for Intermediate (High), October to November is the best time. Seed rare for main crop is 24 kg/acre whereas for early crop is 48 kg/acre Apply whole of FYM (8 t/acre) along with 20 N (Half), 24 P2O5 and 20 K2O at the time of field preparation Application of pre-emergence herbicides like linuron @ 0.5 kg/acre @ or pendimelhalin @ 1 litre/acre can control the weeds effectively. French Bean French bean is a cool weather crop. The plants drop their blossoms or pods in very hot weather. The best quality pods are obtained at 15.6째C to 21.1째C. Varieties: Contender, Pusa Parvati, Arka Komal, Arka Anoop, Kashi Param, Kentuky Wonder. In sub-tropical, best sowing time is last week of January to 1st fortnight of February. In Intermediate (Mid) and Temperate (High), the best time is March-April. Seed rate for Bush type varieties is 34 kg/acre & for Pole type: 18.0 kg/acre Apply whole of FYM (8 t/acre) along with 20 N (Half), 24 P2O5 and 20 K2O at the time of field preparation ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 53 Spinach It is a cool season crop which can withstand frost better than other vegetables crops. Best sowing time in Sub-Tropical areas is August to December, in Intermediate (Mid) areas is June to September and in Intermediate (High) is March-June. Varieties: Prickly Seeded, Virginia Savoy, Banerjee Giant Seed rate is 14-16 kg/acre Varieties Apply whole of FYM (10 t/acre) along with 32 N (one-fourth), 10 P2O5 and 10 K2O before sowing. Coriander It is a tropical plant cultivated in rabi season and requires frost free climate at the time of flowering and seed formation. Varieties: Jammu Coriander-07, Pant Haritma, Narnaul Selection, HissarSurbhi Best sowing time is Last week of October with Seed rate of 4-6 kg/acre (irrigated conditions) & 10-12 kg/acre (un- irrigated conditions). Apply whole of FYM (6 t/acre) along with 24 N (one-third), 12 P2O5 and 8 K2O before sowing. Fruit crops Litchi should better be planted during 1st fortnight of September, because by then, the temperature becomes moderate, and atmosphere has a high humidity. The young plants need stakes to enable them to grow straight in up-right direction. The bamboo sticks are best for this purpose. If the plants show weak growth, they may be given a light dose of urea.