 ICAR-IIVR Varanasi Tech in NE region for strengthening and promotion of vegetable production ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi has taken the lead to enhance vegetable supplies through low-cost production and consumption technology, demonstration of improved production and protection technology, real time supports for basic inputs, advance vegetable cooking and processing methods coupled with educational programs to improve productivity, secured income, minimize risks associated and make market perfect as most effective strategies to boost vegetables production in NE region throughout the year as part of ‘Promotional Activities of Vegetables’ under ICAR-IIVR-NEH component. Under this backdrop presently ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi is undertaking different activities modules with the following objectives: y To train small and marginal farmers of the region. y To distribute quality seed materials of vegetables and other inputs in the form of minikit. y To enhance awareness and assist in the promotion of production technologies, processing, and utilization of selected micronutrient-rich vegetables through front line demonstration. y Introduction of different promotional activities. y Crop cafeteria or home stead garden creation. y Low-cost poly house for growing of high value vegetable crops (like. Capsicum, Cherry tomato and/ or Broccoli). y Introduction of new crops in the nontraditional areas (like kharif Onion) y Nursery raising of vegetable by covering with 60 mesh nylon net and nursery raising of high value vegetable crops by plug tray techniques under low cost poly house. y Off season vegetable cultivation. y Use of Poly-mulch or Agri-mulch for better yield & productivity. y To promote vegetable-based value added products. Technological constraints in the region y Lack of suitable high-yielding vegetable varieties for diverse upland situations, flood affected areas, November–December 2023 49 moisture stress conditions, and hill areas. y Alternative crops for escaping pre-monsoon showers to avoid the problem of pre-harvest sprouting of crop in flood, free period. y Develop improved crop management practices for shifting cultivation. y Improvement and standardization of production techniques of vegetable crops. y Use of improved post-harvest management including pest and disease management and processing techniques for the major vegetable crops. y Land and water management technique specifically for acid soils. y Economic packages for integrated farming systems combining vegetable cultivation with livestock, fishery, etc. y The access to institutional credit facilities for the farmers must be improved substantially. y Poor marketing infrastructure existing in the region. Thrust areas y The region’s ecology is highly diverse and fragile; hence focus should be on conserving potential vegetable genetic resources for future use.