 KVKs make all the efforts for effective documentation and dissemination of agricultural technologies and work towards amplifying their impact and contributing to the sustainable development of Indian agriculture. I extend my heartfelt congratulations to the entire team of the Division of Agricultural Extension, ICAR, and the 11 Agricultural Technology Application Research Institutes (ATARIs) for their comprehensive coverage of significant events and activities of KVKs in this special issue of Indian Farming. KVKs operate through collaborative efforts among scientists, extension functionaries, and farmers, and their role in improving the socio-economic status and overall quality of life for farmers is commendable. My heartfelt wish is for the KVK system to continue propelling our agriculture sector towards new horizons. o - 5 March, 2024 (Himanshu Pathak ) New Delhi A s we commemorate the Golden Jubilee of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs), it is imperative to reflect on their remarkable journey and the invaluable contributions they have made to Indian agriculture. KVKs have emerged as pivotal institutions in transforming the landscape of Indian agriculture since the inception of the first KVK in Puducherry (the then Pondicherry) on 21st March 1974, following Dr Mohan Singh Mehta Committee Report recommendations. Ensuring sustainable food production and household nutritional security on a national scale hinge on the effective diffusion of agricultural innovations. This necessitates sustainable, economically viable, and intensive farming across diverse resource endowments. Farmers need access to technology in crop, livestock, forestry, and fisheries sectors. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) addresses this through KVKs established at district levels across India. Over the past five decades, the ICAR has built a robust network of 731 KVKs across India, adapting to evolving farming challenges. Accordingly, the mandated activities of KVKs have also changed over the period. The KVKs have been established by the ICAR under the administrative control of Agricultural Universities, ICAR Institutes, State Governments, Public Sector Undertakings (PSUs), Non-Government Organizations (NGOs), Educational Institutions and other organizations emphasizing technology development, adoption, and human resource development to enhance productivity sustainably. The KVKs serve as crucial links between research and extension system, conducting on-farm testing, frontline demonstrations, and training for farmers and extension personnel besides providing feedback to research system and further propelling it to the main extension system. KVKs also serve as knowledge and resource centres for agricultural technologies, uniquely positioned to provide district-level technological support to farmers and stakeholders, with ongoing efforts to strengthen their role.