 Excessive irrigation in the seedling stage causes several soil burn diseases which ultimately affect the crop stand establishment. Three to four irrigations during its growing cycle at critical growth stages, viz. vegetative, flowering and grain filling period ensure optimum yield. Irrigation in furrows is superior than check basin method. Drip irrigation scheduled at 1.0 Epan throughout cropping period recorded higher growth, yield attributes and yield and water use efficiency compared to other surface and drip irrigation methods. Under deficit water supply, drip irrigation with 0.5 Epan at vegetative and 1.0 Epan at both flowering and at grain filling stage can be recommended for quinoa Line sowing on broad beds Line sowing on flat beds Indian Farming 24 May 2023 production with minimum yield penalty. Weed management Crop-weed competition in quinoa severely reduces the grain and stover yield. Growth and development of quinoa crop is very slow during the first two weeks after emergence. Integrated approach like use of weed seed free quality seeds, well decomposed organic manures, early sowing with pre-sowing irrigation enable quinoa to have a head start over weeds. Initial 16 days from sowing are critical for crop weed competition. If sown at a row spacing of 25–50 cm, mechanical hoeing for weeding can be performed, and then the plants can suppress the weeds. If mechanical weeding is not possible, one hand weeding at 20–25 days after sowing followed by top dressing of fertilizers minimises the crop weed competition in quinoa. Application of post emergence herbicide as an alternate to hand weeding severely affects the crop yield. This requires further investigation for establishment of herbicide selectivity in quinoa. Insect pest and disease Insect pests attacking quinoa cause damage ranging from 8–40%. However, presence of saponins in grains offers resistance against damage due to insect pests and birds. Mildews, damping off, blight and mosaic viruses are known to infect the crop. Amongst these, downy mildew causes a yield reduction of 33–58%. High humidity and warm conditions favour development of downy mildew. Cropping system Being a short duration, deep rooted and low water requiring crop, quinoa can be well fitted to various cropping systems as pure and inter crop. Due to its ability to grow in marginal soils and adverse ecologies, it is best suited for climate- smart cropping system. Inclusion of quinoa in cropping system will ensue agro-ecological intensification of rice fallows and upland irrigated ecologies. Harvesting and yield The yellowing and shedding of leaves followed by drying of plants indicates maturity of quinoa crop. Threshing can be done by sticks, bullock or by threshers. At optimum level of farm management practices, potential yield of 4 t/ha of grain can be harvested. Average yield of 1.0–1.5 t/ha is generally reported under field conditions. Winnowing and cleaning should be done by fanning mill and gravity separator.