 Documentation, characterization and validation of traditional practices The traditional practices used by farmers have been documented and some of the practices are also being scientifically validated. Bio-chemical and microbial characterization of indigenous preparations such as Shasyagavya, Panchagavya, Kunapajala and natural farming inputs such as Ghanjeevamrit & Jeevamrit have been made. Identified the free-living N fixers, phosphorus and potassium solubilizes from these indigenous preparations. Traditional practices have sustained the farmers and farm households with less dependency on market inputs thus reducing the cost of cultivation. These traditional systems or practices were more sustainable though not much productive. 6.9. Impact Institutional development such as National Programme for Organic production (NPOP) launched during 2001, followed by setting up of National Centre of Organic Farming (NCOF) under Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare and initiation of research through All India Network Programme on Organic Farming (AI-NPOF) under ICAR-Indian Institute of Farming 93 Systems Research by ICAR during 2004 laid the foundation for systematic development of technologies for organic farming in the country. Further with the implementation of two flagship programmes namely Parambharaghat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY) and Mission Organic Value Chain Development in North Eastern hill region helped to expand the area under organic farming in India. Started with just 58,300 ha during 2003-04 (the year of launch of AI-NPOF by ICAR), the area under organic farming has grown almost 39-fold, reaching to 2.299 million ha by March 2020 (APEDA 2020). India is now the ninth largest in terms of arable land under organic farming and largest in terms of total number of organic producers in the world. Conducive policy, technological advancements, demonstrations and farmer led innovations have contributed for phenomenal increase in area besides the market. India is producing wide range of crops under organic management with oilseeds, sugar crops, fiber crops, cereals and millets and pulses occupy the large chunk of the basket. India produces around 2.75 Mt (2019-20) of certified organic products export volume and value of 6.389 lakh tonnes, Rs 4,686 crores (689 million US$) respectively. Therefore, launch of All India Network Programme on Organic Farming by ICAR helped significantly for promotion of organic farming practices in India supporting Gandhian principles. Promotion of towards organic (integrated crop management) approach for input-intensive areas (food hubs) and certified organic approach by integrating tradition, innovation and science in the default organic areas (hill and rainfed/dryland regions) will be better option considering national food security, higher household income and climate resilience (Aulakh and Ravisankar 2017) which will further enhance the safe food production and meet the social values of Gandhiji. 7.