 Keywords: Animal feed, Livestock, Solar cooker Indian Farming 73 (08): 23-25; August 2023 L ivestock contributes a major portion of the income of farmers due to the sale of milk and meat of small ruminants, besides providing gainful employment and manure for crop production. For higher milk productivity and to maintain animal health, mostly farmers feed the mulching animals like cow and buffalo with feed concentrates during milking period. Farmers in arid western Rajasthan generally boil the animal feed concentrates daily for improvement in digestibility and nutritional quality of the feed. The common fuels for boiling animal feed are firewood, cow dung cake and agricultural wastes. These biomasses based resources are already scarce in arid regions and have alternative uses as source of nutrients in soil through manuring. Use of these biomass fuels involve drudgery, time consuming, costly and pollute environment through carbon emission besides affecting health of farmwomen. Considering these, a transition towards alternative energy sources for cooking purpose was felt. Therefore, utilization of solar energy may be a promising option as it is abundantly available throughout the year in most parts of the country. Most parts of the country receive 4.0 to 6.3 kWh/m2/day solar irradiance during November to February while in summer it varies from 5.0 to 7.4 kWh/m2/day. The arid and semi- arid regions of the country like western Rajasthan receive much more radiation as compared to rest of the country. In western Rajasthan, the mean annual daily solar radiation amounts to 6.0 kWh/m2/ day having average sunshine of 8.9 hours/day. Therefore, solar cooking could be most suitable option to prepare animal feed. Moreover, drudgery and time involved in conventional boiling process can also be avoided in solar cooking and it also saves firewood and thus can save considerable time which can be utilized to perform extra agricultural activities. The baseline survey of ICAR- CAZRI Farmer-FIRST Project villages revealed that farmers are using traditional cook-stove (Chulha) which has about 10% thermal efficiency for boiling animal feed and consumes around 6.0 kg of firewood for boiling 10 kg of feed concentrates. Under ICAR Farmer FIRST project, a total of 5 units of animal feed solar cookers, fabricated and evaluated at ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur were provided in farmer participatory mode and installed at Beru village in Jodhpur district of Rajasthan. Design of improved animal feed solar cooker The commercially available box- type solar cookers have low capacity and need to be oriented towards the sun frequently. Considering this, an improved low-cost animal feed solar cooker was designed, developed, Indian Farming 24 August 2023 and tested at ICAR-CAZRI, Jodhpur.