 Vertical farming was the third most attractive tech­ nology reported by farmers, as it can give more products in the same amount of space. The survey also unveils the farmer’s willingness to adopt newly emerged technology, which is given below in (Table 6). Fig. 3 shows the willingness of farmers to adopt new technology at the overall level. It shows a positive response towards adopting new technology. 59 % of farmers responded positively to adopting new technology. The other 35 % of farmers are confused about its adoption. According to the theory of adoption category, the first category is of early adopters, the 16 % of the audience that first adopts the new technology. In this study, the farmer willing to adopt the newly emerged technology is more than 16 %, which shows better scope to increase the adoption rate of the newly emerged technology if their problem gets solved. 3.2. Summary The factors that are influencing the adoption process are discussed in the first objective. The most reported factors are as below. • The emerging technology needs higher initial capital investment, which farmer lacks. • Non-awareness among the farmers regarding newly emerged technology. • The latest technologies need an advanced level of maintenance and attention. For that, skilled persons are required to operate, unavai­ lable in the village area. • The farmer has low risk-taking ability due to their low income, so they cannot try new technology. • Farmers are confused about its reliability and profit generation because they haven’t seen these technologies around them. • Non-availability of sufficient water or the poor quality of water in some places. • A farmer does not have the land or the capital on a large scale to cross the breakeven point of their investment. The rate of non-adoption gives information about the extent of non- adoption of newly emerged technology, which is described in (Table 5) According to that. • A single farmer did not adopt drone technology, hydroponics and vertical farming; however, these technologies have attracted the most significant attention among farmers during the survey [5,31]. • A single farmer does not report mobile technology that captures photos to detect plant diseases due to its non-awareness among the farmer. • The most attractive technology to farmers was hydroponics, drone technology, and vertical farming [32,33]. 3.3. Limitation • Due to their busy schedule, respondents may not feel encouraged to provide accurate, honest answers. Table 4 Factors affecting farmers’ adoption of emerging technology in Indian agriculture. Number Factors Respondents Percentages Rank (n) (%) 1 Heavy initial investment 723 89.48 1 2 Not aware 717 88.73 2 3 Low risk-taking ability 460 56.93 3 4 Used for limited crop 429 53.09 4 5 Low water availability 428 52.97 5 6 Confused about its reliability 360 44.55 6 7 Sometimes it is not cost- effective 149 18.44 7 8 Limited land holding 139 17.