 Sharada Devi +91-99896 25229 Dean Faculty of Home Sciences, ANGRAU, New Delhi  Sh. Kanhaiah Chaudhary dsedn@icar.org.in Deputy Secretary (Education), ICAR, New Delhi  Dr. K.M. Reddy kmreddy@naarm.ernet.in Head, ESM Division, NAARM Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 106 Course Directors‟ Report Background Capacity building is the crucial but expensive component of human resource development (HRD. Training is a planned effort that intends to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of performance of the members of organization. The performance improvement may be effected through planned learning and transfer of such knowledge learnt back at work place. Given such objectives, it has been reported widely that training programmes fail to inculcate „training transfer‟ intent in trainees. Hence, there is an increasing concern over the effectiveness of training programmes and training transfer at work place and the resultant improved organizational performance in terms of productivity, efficiency, effectiveness and performance enhancement etc. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) through its scheme on Centres on Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) has been supporting the faculty of National Agricultural Research System (NARS) in the cutting edge areas of agriculture and allied sciences with respect to research, education and extension capacity demands. There are 31 such centres established all over the country. Such centres have been building the capacity of scientific faculty in terms of up-grading their skills since the inception of this scheme. There is a felt need to improve the design, pattern and content of CAFT capacity building programmes. Such need has been felt pertinent in order to match the evolving demands pertaining to the perspectives of contemporary agricultural dynamics. Hence a project was formulated as follows: Title of the project - Assessment of effectiveness and training transfer of Centre of Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) at NARS Objectives  To assess the perception of CAFT participants, their peers, deputing authorities and CAFT Directors towards the effectiveness of CAFT programmes Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report.