 Though there are number of machines available for crop residue management such as happy seeder, super seeder, mulcher, MB plough, zero till drill, baler (ex-situ option), etc., but these technologies are either not available everywhere or are costly to afford by every farmer. However, presently due to lack of economically viable options of paddy straw management, Indian farmers especially from the north-western states viz. Punjab, Haryana and western- Uttar Pradesh become compelled to burn straw in fields itself. So, proper management of crop residues especially paddy straw can improve agriculture waste management and reduce environmental pollution contributed through residue burning. Thus, there is a need for resource conservation, minimized cost production and maximized productivity with technologies that sustain a healthy environment. In this scenario, surface seeding is a novel technique that has potential to improve crop productivity on sustainable basis without causing environmental pollution. Hence, surface seeding-cum-mulching practice of crop residue management has emerged as an economical and viable option in present time. In present arcticle, an attempt has been made to share the experiences of farmers on this emerging technology. Surface seeding-cum-mulching • Surface seeding-cum-mulching of wheat (developed Indian Farming 74 (03): 13-16; March 2024 Indian Farming 74 (03): 13-16; March 2024 Surface seeding-cum-mulching technique An emerging option to manage crop residue Anil Kumar'* and Gurbachan Singh? ’Guru Angad Dev Veterinary and Animal Sciences University, Tarn Taran, Punjab 143 412 ?Progressive Farmer, Tarn Taran, Punjab 143 412 Surface seeding cum mulching of wheat is an emerging low-cost ecofriendly technique of managing paddy straw, where paddy harvesting and wheat sowing are done simultaneously. Compared to existing residue managemental options, this method has benefits with respect to weed control, soil health as well as crop productivity along with economic benefits as costly machines and high- power tractors are not required in this technique. Straw management and sowing operation of wheat can be completed with a meagre cost of 650-700 only compared to ¥2000-2500 per acre for conventional methods. This technique provides complete mulching, which keeps the soil profile moist and saves the crop from terminal heat stress. Moreover, crop resist to lodging as well as withstand against adverse conditions like torrential rain and hailstorms. Besides, this technique reduces dependence on costly herbicide inputs as it ensures mostly weed free crop. Keywords: Crop residue, Mulching, Surface seeding, Wheat HE Punjab, Haryana and Western Uttar Pradesh had a great contribution in ‘Green Revolution’ and still provide bulk of rice and wheat in the national food basket. Inclusion of high-yielding varieties of rice and wheat in cultivation practice results in production of bulk crop residues in above mentioned states.