 Hill seed shall be grown in the high hills generally 2500 m above the mean sea level or in situations declared technically suitable for seed production. Plain seed shall be grown in such areas where aphid infestation is low during crop growing season and which are technically suitable for seed production. A crop of seed potato shall not be eligible for certification if grown on land infested with wart (Synchytrium endobioticum), common scab (Streptomyces scabies), brown rot or bacterial wilt (Ralstonia solanacearum) and or cyst forming nematodes (Globodera pallida, G. rostochinensis) or non-cyst forming nematodes within the previous three years. Certification standards for the conventionally grown seed potatoes A minimum of four inspections shall be made as follows: • The first inspection shall be made about 45 days after planting in the hills and about 35 days of planting in the plains to verify the isolation, off- types and the extent of disease infection with specific reference to mild and severe mosaic, leaf roll, yellows, brown rot and other relevant factors. • The second inspection shall be made about 60-65 days after planting for early varieties and about 70- 75 days after planting for late varieties or at appropriate growth stage depending on the crop duration of the variety concerned. • The third inspection shall be made immediately after haulms cutting/destruction in order to verify that haulms have been cut/ destroyed by the prescribed date and in proper manner. • The fourth inspection shall be made in about 10 days after haulms cutting/destruction and before harvesting in order to verify that no re-growth of haulms has taken place. • Minimum four counts of 100 plants each are taken randomly on four spots in a zigzag manner in one hectare area. For each additional hectare or part there of two samples of 100 plants each are observed for all visible mosaics, other diseases and off-types. Final field inspection for certification is carried out provided if the following two conditions are fulfilled: i) The previous history of the field, crop operations followed, manuring and plant protection schedule should be made available at the time of inspection and ii) Final roguing should be done before certification inspection. At the time of roguing, all off-type and diseased plants should have been removed along with the tubers. Field standards Minimum isolation distance of 5 m is to be given for foundation-I, foundation-II and certified seed crop from the fields of other varieties and also the fields of the same varieties not confirming to varietal purity requirements for certification. The minimum permissible limits for the certification of potato seed are given Table 1. Of the two inspections, the higher virus percentage will be considered for the purpose of the specified limit of tolerance.