 Continuous Government Interventions have resulted in nearly 25 lakhs units of unorganized food processing industries in rural India and about 80 percent of them are family-based enterprises supporting livelihood to rural households and minimising their migration to urban areas. These units largely fall within the category of micro enterprises. Unorganized food processing sector faced a number of challenges, which limit their performance and their growth. The challenges include lack of access to modern technology and equipment, training, access to institutional credit, lack of basic awareness on quality control of products; and lack of branding and marketing skills. Government has initiated progressive steps to mitigate these problems. Recently Ministry of Food Processing Industries has launched a Centrally sponsored scheme, ‘PM Formalisation of Micro Food Processing Enterprises’ (PM FME) to provide financial, technical and business support for small and micro food processing enterprises. This scheme would generate total investment of Rs 35,000 crore and generate nine lakh skilled and semi-skilled employment and benefit 8 lakh units through access to information, training, better exposure and formalization. Gandhiji’s conception of Swaraj or complete independence is possible only through agricultural and ago-based industries development. According to him policies must support on-farm food production and off-farm cottage industries that uses agricultural produce as raw material and those generate rural employment. His was not a centralized mass production, but a concept of production by the masses and is based on private partnership mode supported by public interventions. The rural agro industries based projects must belong to the people and it would be run for the greater benefit of the society and nation at large. The role of the state would be to help in setting up the industry by giving finance, technical expertise and other needed supports. This is a very similar model that is being implemented by many government schemes. The financial support and technical guidance is offered by the government institutions while the people, either individuals or a group of people create and own the facility. The benefits of such a facility is enjoyed by all in the localised ecosystem. The accrued benefits include the employment generation, raw material cost realization for the agricultural produce and the profit sharing by the partners of the unit. The custom hiring centers (CHCs) for farm machinery hiring purposes, the agro-clinics for input supplies to the farms and the Agro-Processing Centres (APCs) for processing a specific or group of agricultural commodities are the type of public-private partnership mode based successful models promoted and implemented by ICAR and other government agencies. 179 2.5.