 While, the Ministry of Jal Shakti predicted a dip in per capita water availability with 1191 m3 in 2050 against 1545 m3 during 2011. While, a gerbera plant requires 500-700 ml of water per day which annually amounts to 1500-2100 m3 per ha. Thus, it is evident that the annual water requirement of gerbera is higher than the per capita availability. Though India receives about 4000 cubic kilometre of water via precipitation, the average annual potential flow in rivers is only 1869 cubic kilometre, out of which hardly 1123 cubic kilometre is exploitable (690 and 433 cubic kilometre of surface and ground water resources, respectively). Water scarcity is becoming a real threat to the sustainability of irrigated agriculture. Since agriculture consumes massive fresh water, focus should be turned towards amplifying the water-use efficiency in the agricultural system. Surprisingly as per some reports, China produces 0.46 kg of rice and 1.08 kg of cereal with 1000 L of water while, India produces only 0.23 and 0.36 kg, respectively. Hence, replacing the currently booming drip system with a new technology with higher efficiency is the pressing priority. Wick system had been proven as one such technique owing to its water saving, reduced electricity consumption and cultivation cost. Growth in wick system Wick system – An efficacious technique for gerbera cultivation Gerbera, being the most globally-traded flower crop, is commercially grown on soil beds using drip irrigation system. Although drip system saves 30-50% of water compared to the traditional irrigation methods, there is an increasing urge to improve the water- and nutrient-use efficiency of the crop by adopting efficient production system in the present context of expanding urbanization, diminishing agricultural area and reducing water availability. Wick system which exploits the principle of capillary action is one such technique that could effectively enhance the production and quality along with increased net returns and water saving. Adopting wick system for gerbera increased the flower production by 53% and water saving by 44% over the drip system. Moreover, the physical and chemical properties of the soil are least bothered under wick system as there is no external force or pressure exerted on the soil unlike the trickling water droplets in drip system. Hence, the superior crop performance of gerbera could be considered as the resultant of lesser soil compaction, consistent water availability and better soil physical properties under wick system. Sangeetha Priya S*, Aswath C and Safeena S A Technology May–June 2024 19 Drip system Drip irrigation system, also known as ‘Trickle irrigation’ is a system renowned for its enhanced water and nutrient saving. It conserves water by curbing the evaporation and drainage losses.