 Location specific climate resilient technologies (CRTs) were demonstrated for coping with climate variability in vulnerable districts to generate awareness and build capacity of farmers and other stakeholders and to evolve innovative institutional mechanisms at village Achievements in Natural Resource Management in Independent India 277 level so as to enable the communities to respond to climate stresses. The interventions included natural resource management, crop production, livestock and fisheries. Innovative institutional interventions such as Village Climate Resilience Management Committee (VCRMC), Custom Hiring Centres (CHC), seed and fodder production systems were established in the NICRA villages enabled to sustain the activities envisaged and scaling up of interventions. The program started with 100 villages representing 100 climatically vulnerable districts during 2011 and subsequently expanded to 151 districts covering of 446 villages. One village cluster from each of the 151 districts were selected by the respective KVK in the district for farmer participatory programme implementation. The CRV models have been adopted for upscaling by State Governments of Maharashtra and Bihar and several National and International funding agencies (NABARD, ADB, World Bank). The carbon sink also increased due to adoption of resilient practices suggesting reduction in net GHG emissions. Human resource development under NICRA: The NICRA project enabled to network with 1200 scientists and 872 young research fellows in the climate change research. The skilled scientific man power and state of the art research infrastructure established at several ICAR institutes and State Universities encouraged students to take-up research work for the award of 126 Ph.D. and 85 M.Sc. degrees. During the past 10 years 17,250 capacity building programs were conducted benefiting 5,25,816 stakeholders. Bibliometric science mapping and meta-analysis of 424 research articles published under NICRA over the past one decade (2010-20) indicated that the collaboration index was 3.1, with 6.17 co-authors per scholarly publication, showing the inter-disciplinary team approach among the researchers in the network. The sustained and long-term funding support also showed increased publication of research articles in peer reviewed journals (growth rate of 20.87% per annum). 3. Impact of NRM technologies Impact assessment of promising technologies has been carried out. Technology development on watershed management showed that nearly 57.61 Mha area has been developed under various watershed development schemes. Meta-analysis of 311 watersheds in India revealed that watershed interventions have been found to be very effective in terms of prevention of land degradation, water conservation and production enhancement besides mitigating adverse impact of flood and drought. The mean benefit-cost ratio of watershed program in the country was quite modest at 2.