 Technology involves the use of whole banana pseudostem without any wastage and hence, the productivity of the biomolded item is very high. No external binders are added for the production of molded products. This eco-friendly product will be a better alternative for plastic based products. 11. Ecofriendly, efficient and rapid burning crematorium using cotton stalks/biomass briquettes M/s. Vidarbha Sales, Nagpur. Developed briquette technology which is ecofriendly, efficient and rapid burning green crematorium as an alternative to traditional fire wood based cremation. Briquettes made from agricultural biomass like cotton stalk, sugarcane bagasse, groundnut and castor seed shells, rice husk and paddy straw etc. can be used as alternative fire wood in cremation. 12. Sustainable rubber pots with natural fibre reinforcement M/s. Rubber Engineers Pvt. Ltd.ICAR-CIRCOT has provided the intervention by developing innovative agro-residue reinforced natural rubberized composite with higher strength and optimal flexibility. 13. Sleeping bags M/s. Shree Agro Invent Tech Pvt. Ltd. Inner layer is prepared using nano-based anti- microbial finish for enhanced comfort. Outer layer is prepared using synthetic fabric having mosquito repellant property. These nanofinished high performance sleeping bags provide improved protection and comfort to user and enhances sleep experience. 14. Innovative fibre reinforced paper carry bags M/s. Udayprasth Industries Pvt. Ltd. This bag was prepared as an alternative to plastic bags and it can be used for day to day packaging uses. It is bio- degradable, cost effective and eco-friendly due to use of recycled material. Having excellent load bearing capacity with durability. Prepared using GSM 127 paper with special properties like Ant-repellent and Insect repellent and load bearing capacity of up to 7 kg. Bloom Textile, Sivakasi, Tamil Nadu, M/s. FNV Pack, Pune, M/s. Kotak Commodities, Mumbai, M/s. Paras Gold Industries, Gujarat to name a few (Table 1). Presently the ABI centre is promoting entrepreneurs in fields of antimicrobial textile finishing, degossypolised cottonseed meal for poultry feed, cotton rubber composite batons for police force, various application of nanocellulose in paper and composites. Facilities available for incubation The institute is instrumental in the establishment of well-equipped pilot plant facilities for nanocellullose, particle board, saw ginning, roller ginning, computerized sample preparation machine and cottonseed oil extraction. In addition, there are modernized testing facilities are also available for the assessment of developed technology. Conclusion ICAR-CIRCOT ABI centre facilitates incubation of new enterprises based on innovative technologies by providing technical mentorship, physical space, networking support and services.