 The former of the two cleaves the chain internally, while the latter causes the release of monomer sugars and debranches the enzymes responsible for the cleavage of side chains associated with the oligosaccharides. The microbial hydrolysis of hemicellulose produces soluble monosaccharides and uranic acid, which are further used by microorganisms for metabolism and are converted to carbon dioxide, organic acids and water. Factors affecting the degradation of lignocellulosic biomass: Temperature and pH: Both properties are essential for effective degradation of lignocellulosic biomass as they affect the degradation rate of the residue. Because the soil is mainly composed of mesophilic organisms with a small number of thermophiles and psychrophiles, the highest rates of population growth and activity are seen in the mesophilic temperature range, i.e. 20–35˚C. However, pH is also a deciding factor in the efficiency of biodegradation. Bacteria, including actinomycetes, prefer a near neural pH (7.0–7.5), whereas fungi thrive in a more acidic pH range. Depending upon the microorganism being used, the pH of the soil can influence the degradation rates. Soil moisture and oxygen supply: Soil moisture influences the residue decomposition by playing a role in the diffusion of soluble compounds and the mobility of microorganisms through the soil. Less amount of moisture results in significant hampering of these processes, whereas extremely fry conditions Carbon dioxide-water Laccase Manganese­ peroxidase Endoglucanase cellobiohydrolase Monosaccharides eg: Xylose Xylanase mannase Indian Farming 22 August 2023 may also lead to the death, of microbes. On the other hand, a low oxygen concentration in the soil negatively affects the growth of obligate aerobes and also impacts the metabolism of various microbial species. Quality of the residue: The quality of residue is governed by the nutrient content present and is called high- quality residues when the nutrient content is high, which basically refers to a high Carbon-Nitrogen ratio (20:1 and 30:1). These high- quality residues are easily degraded as compared to their low-quality counterparts owing to the increased functionality of microorganisms. Another such parameter is lignin which can be used to predict the rate of degradation. Soil organic matter: The contents of soil govern the soil’s indigenous microbial flora because they depend solely on its nutritional value for their survival. This soil organic matter is also responsible for providing suitable soil environments to these biodegrading microorganisms, which is why it is advised to add inorganic nitrogen to the soil after residue incorporation. Lignocellulose decomposing microorganisms Several microorganisms have been reported and are used for their lignocellulose degrading properties to generate carbon dioxide and water as end products.