 ICAR-SAUs collaboration also extended beyond AICRPs over time. Several ICAR Institutes inked MoUs with SAUs for collaborations in higher agricultural education. ICAR-IISWC with CCS University and SGRRU; ICAR-CICR with PDKV, Akola; ICAR-NIASM with MAU, Parbhani; ICAR-CIFE with CAU to facilitate collaboration in academic, research Indian Agriculture after Independence 366 and training programmes. ICAR also signed MoUs with Ramakrishna Mission Vivekanand University, Kolkata and Amity University, UP for knowledge sharing, collaboration, cross learning, innovation and extension in agriculture. The agricultural cooperation within the several multilateral frameworks such as SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation), ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations), IBSA (India, Brazil and South Africa), BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa) were also strengthened. The most intensive collaboration has been developed between ICAR/DARE and CGIAR Centres. Apart from CGIAR, the MoUs have also been entered with Centre for Agriculture & Biosciences International (CABI), Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia- Pacific (NACA), Asia-Pacific Association of Agriculture Research Institutions (APAARI), Centre for Alleviation of Poverty through Sustainable Agriculture (UN-CAPSA), Asian and Pacific Centre for Agricultural Engineering and Machinery (APCAEM), International Seed Testing Association (ISTA), International Society for Horticulture Sciences (ISHS), etc. ICAR has also established collaboration with FAO for setting up Indian Network of Fisheries and Animals for antimicrobial resistance (INFAAR) in 2017. ICAR- NIVEDI was given the responsibility for the overall technical and data management operations of the network with NBFGR for coordinating technical activities of laboratories from fishery sector. The strong linkages with international research organizations and scientific institutions across the world also played positive role in eliminating the insecurity on food front from the country (ICAR 2017). These organizations/institutions helped through mutually agreed cooperation framework in finding the solutions against the challenges posed from climate change, insects-pests and virus infections in crops and livestock. Many has helped in creating the state-of-the-art facility for advance research in plant, livestock and fisheries. The recent advances in basmati rice, multiple disease resistance in wheat, tomato, rice, etc. along with genomics in pigeon pea, chickpea, rice, tomato, etc. are some examples to cite. Fig. 3. MoUs of ICAR with other countries 367 International and National Collaborations While we began with the CGIAR institutes initially, our horizontal spread increased substantially in the next decades leading to deepening of global foot prints across continents (Fig. 3).