 Table 2: Source wise studies selected for the study Name of source Number of studies selected Google Scholar 23 Krishi kosha thesis 04 Total 27 A total of 23 articles were excluded from the study for various reasons. Thirteen articles were rejected because they were not conducted in India. Six articles were excluded for not providing distinct estimates for organic and inorganic materials. Additionally, four articles were rejected as they were not focused on agricultural crops. Data Extraction Data from 27 selected studies were extracted, as summarized in Table 3. Key details included the study title, author, publication year, state, crop, journal, sample size, and mean income for organic and inorganic agriculture. Further analysis, presented in Table 4, categorized studies by author, crop, and state, using the Bootstrapping method. This method helped estimate standard deviations and construct confidence intervals for both organic and inorganic agriculture, ensuring a precise and reliable analysis of the data. Statistical Methods in Meta-analysis Meta-analysis Master Sheet The meta-analysis commenced with the creation of a master sheet that systematically listed the included studies in chronological order. This master sheet contained key variables, including the mean difference (MD) between organic and inorganic agriculture outcomes and the associated standard error (SE) for each study. The mean difference (MD) was calculated as follows (Fourichon et al. 2000) [9]: Where, MD represents the mean income difference between organic and inorganic agriculture, is the mean income from organic agriculture and is the mean income from inorganic agriculture. International Journal of Agriculture Extension and Social Development https://www.extensionjournal.com 323 www.extensionjournal.com Table 3: List and details of selected studies for the study S. No Title of study selected Authors crop state Year of publication Name of the Journal 1 Economics of major crops grown under organic and inorganic farming in Parbhani district of Maharashtra Sanap Dattaray et al. Cotton Maharashtra 2008 Thesis 2 Economics of major crops grown under organic and inorganic farming in Parbhani district of Maharashtra Sanap Dattaray et al. Soyabean Maharashtra 2008 Thesis 3 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Paddy Punjab 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities &Social Sciences 4 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Wheat Punjab 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities &Social Sciences 5 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Cotton Punjab 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 6 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D. Kumara charyalu et al. Paddy Uttar Pradesh 2010 Bilingual journal of Humanities & Social Sciences 7 Economics of organic farming over conventional farming in India D.