 It may be grown as poira crop or as 645 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 sole crop sown by zero/ minimal tillage method. Where late kharif paddy is in practice or where high residual moisture is retained up to the end of November, sunflower/ summer green gram can be a good alternative to cover the fallow. 5. Integrated Farming System (IFS) approach For the small and marginal farmers of the State, IFS approach involving integration of crops + goat + poultry for irrigated midland situation may be promoted to augment the farmers’ income. For the small and marginal farmers of the State, IFS approach involving integration of crops + cattle + fish + duck for lowland situation may be promoted to augment the farmers’ income. IFS model needs to be promoted involving synergic blending of crops, horticulture, dairy, fisheries, poultry, etc. which is a viable option to provide regular income and at site employment to small land holder, decreasing cultivation cost through multiple use of resources. Integrated fish farming especially poultry/duck/pig/dairy/paddy-cum-pisciculture with horticulture and seasonal vegetables on the embankments may be encouraged. This will encourage organic fish farming and simultaneously utilize a number of organic wastes including domestic sewage thus enabling eco-restoration. Production of vermin compost needs to be integrated with the production of bio gas and the use of its slurry in the agricultural field. In-situ crop residue incorporation should be encouraged 6. Crop diversification Adaptation of rice based profitable crop sequence; preferably including one leguminous pulse crop can be an additional source of income. Cereal or other crops in the prevailing rice- wheat cropping systems may be replaced with high yielding varieties of pulses. Short duration varieties of pulses as catch crop may be included. Cultivation of pulses in the irrigated area in rabi season may be increased. The cropping intensity by incorporating short duration forage crops in rice based cropping sequence (e.g. Rice- Grass pea- Vegetables) may be improved. Pigeonpea may be cultivated on bunds. Crop diversification such as pulses, oilseeds, potato, vegetables, tuber crops may be brought under massive programme. Cultivation of grass pea (Lathyrus) as dual purposes (green forage + pulse seed production) to utilize residual moisture and nutrients may be undertaken, particularly in Western part and coastal/ saline areas of West Bengal. Inter-cropping with the growing of two or more crops simultaneously in the same field may be encouraged. Generally, individual crop yield slightly less when intercropped, but total productivity is higher than in monoculture. Enhancement of cropping intensity uniformly from 184 % to 200 -250 % in all sorts of land and training to the farmers for accepting the need of 646 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 intercropping in various area should be organized.