 Opinion of respondents towards training design and delivery of CAFT programmes Opinion towards training design and delivery Average Rating Before training Training needs assessment The CAFT training programme I participated was designed based on felt-needs of the target group 8 The CAFT training was tuned towards the demands of NARS faculty 8 Content validity The content of the CAFT training was relevant to the job profile of target group 9 The content of the CAFT training was in line with the NARS priorities 8 The course materials were designed as per the objectives of the training 9 During training Active learning The training was effectively designed to involve the participants 9 The training activities were arranged in such a way that even dull participants involved themselves in the learning activities 8 Varied practice During training, many practical examples were dealt 8 The training content was dealt through varied and relevant methodologies 9 Technological tools The tools/ techniques used during the training were adequate 8 The effectiveness of the training was improved by the use of tools/ techniques 9 After training Training evaluation The evaluation of training at the end revealed the participants about their level of learning during training 8 The results of training evaluation conveyed the participants about the extent of efforts they have to put-forth to transfer the training learnt at CAFT 8 (Rating ranges from strongly agree-10 to strongly disagree-1) Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 37 Fig. 9. Opinion of respondents towards training design and delivery Transfer outcomes A perusal of table 23 infers that the respondents agreed towards improvement in knowledge, skills, transfer of training information to peer group, improvement in research efficiency, organizational performance, preparation of teaching and training resource materials and guiding research scholars as an impact of CAFT training back at their work place. It could be understood from Fig. 11 that the average score of trainees‟ attributes and training design and delivery ranges around 8-9, while organizational climate ranges between 7-8 in a ten-point scale of opinion. This implies that comparatively there is a need for improvement from the organizational climate to support application of knowledge, skills and attitude gained by the participants of CAFT programmes back at job environment. This may be the reason for their comparatively lesser average scores towards their perceived transfer outcomes. Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 38 Table 22.