 This process is very easy to handle as comparred to corrosive nature of hydrochloric acid and seed extracted also fetch good market price due to the shining colour of the seeds (Orissa). Beura and Beura (2002) 147 9 Grain/Seed Storage S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Plastering storage area with lime and sand The storage area Hagevu are plasterd with lime and sand. These storage areas had the capacity of 20-30 bags of grain storage. (Heggere and Chitradurga, Karnataka). Nagarathna (2000) 2 Indoor bamboo or reed structure for grain storage The indoor structures are made of bamboo. In certain areas where bamboo is not freely available farmers use locally available reeds for indoor storage structures. The cost of such bamboo structures are compared to be low since it is made from the locally available material and know - how but these structures do not give protection to grains against rodents and insects. The life of these structures is short and susceptible to fire and require frequent maintenance (Andhra Pradesh and Orissa). Navanitha Raju (1999) 3 Storage of onion bulbs on bamboo platform Onion bulbs can be stored for up to a year. The good bulbs are stored on a platform that is raised 2–3 feet above the ground. The platform is made of bamboo strips that are loosely woven so as to allow free air movement. Bulbs are piled 2-3 feet high on to the platform and protected from sun and rain by a cover (Junagadh, Gujarat). Babulbhai (1993) 4 Method of storage of foodgrains in Khanti The structure called ‘Khanti’ is made at places where the level of underground water is low (30 feet below) so that 15 feet deep khanti can be made. The shape of Khanti is made slopy with 10–15 metres wide base and 1 feet wide at the top. One foot thick layer of husk is spread both at bottom as well as on sides and neem is also mixed with that for protection from pests. Different grains can be stored in one ‘Khanti’ simultaneously by making thick layers of husk and large leaves in between different grains. 10-15 tonnes of foodgrains can be stored in one Khanti where the underground water level is low. Husk is spread inside the Khanti before storing the food grains to absrob moisture. Thus the grains can be stored in this structure from May to November (Maharshtra). Singh (1999) 148 GRAIN/SEED STORAGE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 5 Storage of potato tubers Farmers of Hoskote village in Karnataka store potato tubers in the field. They select a highly elevated area of 25 × 4 sq. feet in the field and harden the soil. In every four feet they fix two stone pillars. Thus, about 12 stone pillars are required for the selected area. Over these stone pillars, a roof is thatched to give shade using eucalyptus pole, coconut and pongamia leaves.On the hardened floor different types of local grass and sugarcane leaves are spread in a layer. Harvested potato tubers are stored in a layer over this leaf bed.