63%) and others including agro-forestry (1.96%). Out of these training courses 39.68% were organized on-campus, whereas rest (60.32%) were organized off-campus. Within field crops, integrated crop management was the leading theme in which 24.71% of courses were organized followed by SUCCESS STORY Woman farmer diversified her farm production for better returns Mrs Harshada Rajendra Palaye, 38 years old woman and a resident of Kondye village in Lanja tehsil of Ratnagiri district was involved in family farming. She had an operational land holding of 4 ha. She was cultivating subsistence crops like rice, finger millet, horsegram etc. in the traditional way. She established a vermicompost unit under the technical guidance of KVK by availing subsidy of `30,000 for construction of shed (15×10 m) in the year 2010 from the Department of Agriculture, Government of Maharashtra. KVK also provided vermin-culture of earthworm Eisenia fetida for demonstration. At first she prepared vermi-compost unit of the capacity of 5–6 tonnes and sold it at nearby villages. Approximately, she earned ` 45,000–50,000 from this small-scale activity. She decided to expand her small-scale activity into a commercial business venture. She joined a Self-help Group named-Shri Samarth Shetkari Swayamsahata Gat consisting of five male and five female farmers. She sold vermicompost under trade name of this Self-help Group. The vermicompost prepared by this group is available in 1 kg, 5 kg, 10 kg and 40 kg poly bags. Now, Shri Samarth Vermicompost became a brand name among the farming community in the Konkan region. At present, she has reached to the production capacity of more than 100 tonnes per year. On an around, she has a turnover of ` 12–13 lakh/year out of this business venture. Year-round, she employed 7–8 people in Kondye village. After getting a grand success in vermicompost production, Mrs Harshada moved to the idea of the ornamental nursery. Vermicompost is the main media for growing ornamental plants and the other reason behind starting ornamental nursery as per demand of ornamental plants in Mumbai for terrace gardening. Considering this opportunity, she has started ornamental, fruit and forest crop nursery. In the beginning, she prepared 1,000 vegetable seedlings and sold it out in the weekly market. After getting confidence, she constructed polytonal for preparation of grafts. Since last 3–4 years, she is producing about 10,000 grafts of cashew (Var. Vengule 4), 4,000 of mango (Var. Kesar and Alphonso), 1,000 coconut (Var. Banavali) and 500 kokum fruits crops. Addition to this, she is preparing about 2,000 rose and 5,000 Sonchaffa grafts and around 30,000 agroforestry crops, viz. teak, khair, sandalwood, bamboo, Acacia mangium, Aonla and gulmohar (Delonix regia). She is selling these grafts and seedlings under the same trade name of Shri Samarth Shetkari Nursery in entire Konkan as well as in western Maharashtra.