95 tonnes/ha equivalent rice grain yield. Conservation of Minor Fruit, Vegetable and Flower Germplasm Four types of rose apple, two types of bread fruit, two jack fruit types, three species of Garcinia and three varieties of aonla (Emblica officinalis) were added to the Institute germplasm during this period from the agroforest areas grown in Goa. In addition, 13 high yielding strains of okra were collected from different vegetable growing areas of Goa and were added to the collection. Guava Based System for Kymore Plateau and Satpura Hills Guava based system developed at Jabalpur, revealed that Curcuma domestica grown under the shade of 12 year old guava trees var. Lucknow-49 (3.5 to 4.5 m height and 14-24 cm dbh) performed better under 45 × 25 cm spacing with an average yield of 7.32 tonnes/ha. Similarly, Zingiber officinale also showed better yield (5.39 tonnes/ha) at 30 × 20 cm spacing. This system is well adopted by the farmers of Kymore plateau and Satpura hills of Madhya Pradesh. Diversification into New or Less Traditional Crops Promising new crops of castor at Akola, Anantapur, Solapur, Hisar and Bijapur; amaranthus in Akola and Anantapur; chillies and vegetable pigeonpea in Bangalore; groundnut in Faizabad and Phulbani and sole crop of pigeonpea at Indore are becoming popular with farmers in place of traditional crops at these centers. Watershed Development In order to demonstrate and evaluate technological packages for ravinous watersheds, an integrated watershed management plan was prepared for implementation in a completely participatory mode in Bada Khera Watershed near Lakheri in district Bundi (Rajasthan). About 55% of 682 ha watershed is under agriculture while 25% is community wasteland and remaining 20% area is ravine. Out of annual average rainfall of 750 mm, about 40-45% is immediately lost through surface runoff with an average erosion rates of 40-42 tonnes/ha. So far about 429 ha land has been treated. The gully control structures have arrested about 10,000 tonnes of fertile top soil. Impact evaluation has indicated reduction in runoff and soil loss by 65% and 53% respectively. The levelling and bunding improved 57% profile moisture during cropping period, resulting in about 90% higher grain yield of rainfed sorghum, soybean and mustard. The improved agronomic package increased crop yields by 39-78% over traditional methods. The project implementation generated 7,473 mandays. The income of self-help group improved by 19-52% over pre- project period. During the summer period of 2001, when the region was facing extreme shortage of drinking water due to preceding consecutive drought years, the village pond of Bada Khera was a continual and only source of water for about 80% of animal population of the village. GIS based strategies for soil and water conservation, selection of water harvesting sites and identification of artificial recharge sites have been worked out.