 Importance of fibre in human nutrition. Water and electrolyte balance. Metabolism of carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. Roles of vitamins and hormones in metabolism. Community Nutrition: Major nutrition problems in India – causes, magnitude and distribution. Nutritional problems of vulnerable segments – pregnant and lactating women, and pre-school children. Food nutrition programmes to combat malnutrition-strategies, targets and progress. Assessment of community nutritional status-anthropometry, diet survey, biochemical and clinical methods. Indicators/parameters and standards used for assessment by different methods. Growth norms for pre-school children and importance of growth monitoring. Nutrition During Life Cycle: Nutritional requirements of pregnant and lactating women and pre- school children. Consequences of chronic nutritional deficiencies in these groups. Infant and child feeding practices in India and importance of promoting good feeding practices. Nutrition for elderly. Clinical Therapeutic Nutrition: Relationships between clinical results and nutritional status. Drug nutrient interaction. Nutrition in disease, therapeutic modifications of normal diets, and their use in treatment of diseases of gastro-intestinal cardio-vascular renal, hepatic metabolic and febrile disorders. Unit 2 : Textile Science, Fashion Designing and Garment Production Clothing Construction and Pattern Making: Methods of developing patterns – flat, draping and drafting. Application of special sewing techniques in dress designing. Figure irregularities and special problems with reference to apparel designing. Evaluation of finished garments . Commercial processes in apparel industry. Factors influencing fashion movement. Fashion forecasting. Understanding consumer demands. Consumer decision processes. Socio-psychological aspects of clothing. Traditional costumes, textiles and embroideries of India and their influence on modern trends. Costumes of world. Fibre Science: Textile chemistry – polymerization, bonding, reactive groups. Manufacture/ processing, structure and physical, chemical and biological properties of cotton, silk,wool and linen, rayon and synthetics, Bleaches – types and their commercial application. Special finishes applied to different fibres such as wash-n-wear, water-proof, water repellent, shrink proof, durable press, 96 carbonizing for p/c blends. Quantitative estimation of blends and mixtures. Water, detergents – types and their influence on fabric performance. Textile auxiliaries. Dyeing and Printing: Study of dyes and pigments – composition, properties, advantages and disadvantages. Advanced dyeing and printing methods. Textile and Apparel Quality Analysis: Importance of quality testing in textiles and apparel. Role of textile testing standards and methods. Fibre, yarn and fabric testing equipment and methods. Quality standards, specifications and accepted quality levels for apparel production.