 l Performance of Vanaraja adults was also satisfactory — age at sexual maturity 160, 180 and 176 days in Manipur, Arunachal Pradesh and Mizoram; body weight varied between 2.52 and 3.22 kg in males and 1.78 and 2.52 kg in females; layer performance 9.3, 14 and 11.5 egg/month a bird, which was more than 2-times of local birds. Nutritional Security Studies l Egg consumption in high income group farmers and low income group farmers improved. This backyard system provided high degree of nutritional security in one of the remotest villages in the country on China boarders. l At Manipur Centre, 20 week-old Vanaraja birds weighed 2,360 g and 2,520 g under open and semi range conditions and local birds weighed 1,895 g. Under two range conditions number of days Vanaraja laid eggs was 168 days, which was 20 days lesser than local birds. l Another important innovation of Manipur farmers was use of broody hens instead of government hatcheries. The chicks hatched under broody hen mechanism were in very high demand by the tribal people both for rearing and self-consumption. STUDIES ON PASTURE BASED ANIMAL PRODUCTION SYSTEM Objectives of Network Programme on ‘Crop Based Animal Production System’ are to compare the different grazing management practices, and suggesting the best possible alternative for livestock systems dependent upon this system. The livestock system under this study consisted of cattle, buffalo, sheep, goat and camel. IGFRI, Jhansi: Pasture improvement, forage evaluation, nutrient losses, and water conservation aspects were studied. Rotational grazing proved to be a good practice for Cenchrus ciliaris and Sehima nervosum, and under continuous grazing the vigour of Cenchrus ciliaris and Heteropogon contortus decreased considerably while Dichantium annulatum flourished well in deferred rotational system. As a whole rotational grazing promoted the vigour character of range grasses and continuous grazing system hampered these to some extent. Total forage production ranged from 7.9 to 9.5 tonnes/ha in continuous and deferred rotational systems respectively. Heteropogon contortus was the main forage producer in all the four systems and its production varied from 321.2 to 511.1 g/m2 in cut-and-carry to deferred rotational system, which is more than 45% of total production. CIRG, Makhdoom: Biomass production was more in the cut-and-carry system but cost of fodder production is higher under this system because it is more labour intensive. Rotational system grazing is mot economical on account of lowest rate of cost of fodder production. Livestock productivity is more under deferred rotational system of grazing. By integrating both livestock and fodder production the deferred rotational system seems to be more economical over other system of grazing. CSWRI, Avikanagar: Economics of sheep and goat rearing under different grazing systems was worked out.