 1) at a spacing of 30 cm × 15 cm depending upon the size of minituber. The produce of Gen. 1 is called as pre-basic seed. The produce of Gen. 1 (pre-basic seed) is further multiplied in generation-II (Gen. 2) at a spacing of 45-60 cm × 20 cm and the produce of Gen. 2 is called as breeder seed or basic seed. SUMMARY Seed potato production involving micro-propagation (tissue culture) techniques can overcome many problems associated with the conventional multiplication system. The everlasting shortage of seed potatoes in most of the potato growing nations can be overcome through micro- propagation techniques on account of faster rate of multiplication. Besides, rapid multiplication, disease freedom on account of multiplication of disease free mother stocks under controlled conditions followed by reduced number of field exposures as compared to conventional multiplication system is an added advantage of seed potato production through tissue culture techniques. Due to these numerous advantages, the new hi-tech system of seed potato production involving micro-propagation is finding favour among the seed potato entrepreneurs. For further interaction, please write to: Dr T Dr T Dr T Dr T Dr Tanuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth (Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla 171001, Himachal Pradesh. E-mail: tanujagbpuat@gmail.com The Handbook of Agriculture is one of the most popular publication of the ICAR with a wider readership. The present edition presents science-led developments in Indian agriculture, the ongoing research efforts at the national level and with some ideas on the shape of future agriculture. While information in some chapters such as Soil and water, Land utilization, field and forage crops has been updated with latest developments, many new topics such as the Environment, agrobiodiversity, Resource conservation technologies, IPM, Pesticides residues, Seed production technologies, Energy in agriculture, informatics, Biotechnology, Intellectural Property Rights, Agricultural marketing and trading and Indigenous Technical Knowledge have been included in the present edition. For those who take intelligent interest in agriculture – and their number is increasing fast – the present edition would serve as a useful book. For obtaining copies: Business Manager Directorate of Information and Publications of Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012 Tel: 011-25843657, Fax: 09-11-25841282; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-xii + 1618 Price : Rs 1500 Postage : Rs 100 ISBN No. : 978-81-7164-096-6 Indian Horticulture 22 B IOFORTIFICATION is defined as the process of enriching nutrient content particularly minerals and vitamins in food crop either through plant breeding, agronomic or biotechnological interventions.