 Surveys and collection need to be strengthened to find out efficient predators/parasitoids for biological control of some sucking insects pests. Quantitative data on the occurrence of invasive pests need to be developed involving all stakeholders. Microbiological Research: Crop specific modules for organic farming to be developed incorporating the beneficial PGPR component and should be taken up on entire village basis. Engineering microbes for sustainable crop productivity and utilization to be systematically demonstrated involving the line departments. 2. Horticultural Science The most significant recommendations emanated from the eight conferences organized during this triennium are listed below: Accelerated Horti-Science Research: Systems to develop robots for production of grafts in vegetables especially in tomato, chilly and gourds should be explored. Research on Bio-reactor method for Hi Volume planting material need to be initiated on different horticultural crops. Establishing dedicated seed gardens for mass multiplication of high oil yielding genotypes of oil palm coconut seed gardens. Production and distribution for diseases-free quality planting material should be promoted through accredited nurseries. Need for promotion of flower based by product industries and strengthening of R&D in flower crops. Transcriptome analysis in Alphonso mango should be done to understand its unique characteristics. Improvement in traditional medicine needs authentication of raw material and its quality for better therapeutic efficacy. In this respect SCAR markers and metabolic engineering could be used as tools. Sustainable use of native plants in landscaping should be promoted. Export Promotion: Special efforts should be taken to popularize technologies developed by institutions like ICAR-NRC Banana, CFTRI and various Agricultural Universities in value addition. Initiatives should be taken to enhance export of banana. Necessary infrastructure like storage facilities, refrigeration, packaging units should be established. Harmonize international Phytosanitary standards and regulations for fresh fruits & vegetables. EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Compendium Salient Recommendations 4 Models for Ponics Horticulture (hydroponics, aeroponics, aquaponics, etc.) systems especially for small holders needs to be devised with technology simplification must be promoted with adequate incentives. Rapid multiplication of the seed potato tubers through tissue culture in conjunction with Aeroponics systems. Overarching Ideas: Horticultural scientists around the world need to work together to make progress in the areas of pollinators research, rootstock breeding, lines, vertical farming, robotics and mechanization of farming. Prospects of conservation of future fruits through custodianship in situ areas must be explored. In situ Conservation of identified commodities supported through communities and volunteer farmers in forest eco system to be explored.