 Research Achievements (New varieties/Technologies Developed/validated and being practiced in the last five years) (2002‐2007): Achievements at a glance • In coconut, four cultivars and ten hybrids have been released based on their performance at different locations for commercial cultivation in the respective States. • In addition to the released cultivars and hybrids, a few types are in the final stages of evaluation at different locations. In the East Coast of Tamil Nadu, the WCT and Andaman Ordinary are performing well. In the Maharashtra coast at Ratnagiri, Laccadive Ordinary, Pratap and Kerasankara have shown stable performance as suitable varieties of the tract. At Ambajipeta, Philippines Ordinary is performing well. • In West Bengal, Jamaica Tall and in Assam, Assam Green Tall (Kamrupa) are suggested for commercial cultivation. • The hybrids showing promise in different centres include WCT x GBGD, COD x WCT and WCT x COD. • Three arecanut cultivars were released for cultivation based on multilocation trials. • Nutritional requirements for D x T hybrids for each agro‐climatic zone have been worked out. • Recommendation on biomass recycling within the system and the use of low cost technologies on lignin degrading fungi/use of epigeic earthworms were offered for commercial exploitation. • Nutrient management techniques for littoral sandy soils of West Coast region have been standardized. • Irrigation schedule based on evaporation demand (Eo) has been standardized for interior and coastal regions of Tamil Nadu and Konkan coast of Maharashtra. • Successful and economically viable coconut based cropping systems have been identified for different states. In general, nut yield increased in mixed cropping compared with monocrop of coconut. The net profit under Coconut Based Cropping Systems was reported between Rs.50,000 to Rs.1,65,000 per hectare. www.icar.org.in 67 2002‐2007 • Plant protection packages for the management of basal stem rot, leaf eating caterpillar, red weevil and rhinoceros beetle have been developed. • Fertilizer and irrigation requirements for oil palm in major states have been worked out. • Promising germplasm types in palmyrah available in Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu States were collected and a genebank has been established. • Plant protection recommendation for the management of tuber rot disease of palmyrah has been developed. New Varieties/Technologies Developed/Validated and being practiced in the Last Five Years. 1.Coconut varieties/hybrids recommended for large scale cultivation in the respective region • Ratnagiri (Maharashtra): Laccadive Ordinary (LO) • Veppankulam (Tamil Nadu) : COC x PHOT • Aliyarnagar (Tamil Nadu): Philippines Ordinary, WCT x COD, WCT x GBGD, COD x WCT ‐ These hybrids/varieties have already been released from CPCRI and hence these types can be recommended for the region. • Kahikuchi (Assam): MYD x WCT 2.