 Initially, an effort was made to collect and compile indigenous knowledge-based practices in agriculture, animal husbandry and other land-based enterprises. The information have been compiled and published in the form of books in two volumes and two supplementary entitled Inventory of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 1; Document 2 and; Supplement - 1 and 2 of Document 2. These four volumes contained an inventory of 4,880 ITKs covering 23 thematic areas viz,. Rain water management, Soil and water conservation, Wind erosion, Tillage practices, Crops and cropping systems, Soil fertility management, Pest and disease management, Farm implements, Post-harvest technology, Grain/seed storage, Horticultural crops, Veterinary science and animal husbandry, Fishery, Ethno botany and agro-biodiversity, Fuel management, Thermal efficiency, Weather forecasting, Waste water management, Garbage disposal and management, Food product development, Natural yarns, dyes and weaves, Low-cost housing materials and Ethnic food. It is for the first time that a team of agricultural scientists drawn from ICAR institutes and State Agricultural/Veterinary Universities all over the country have made an effort under this project to take up validation studies on 111 selected ITKs. The initial results of the studies were published during 2003 in the form of a book entitled Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 3. From these, 37 important ITKs were further taken up for cross-sectoral validation through experimentation. This publication entitled Cross-sectoral validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge in Agriculture - Document 4 provides the results of experiments and its critical analysis on the efficacy of the ITKs. The results have been very interesting and extremely important that support scientific rationality of the ITKs for promoting their further application. I hope this publication will open new chapter in agricultural research and provide the scientists a new direction for appropriate blending of ITKs with modern technologies. The voluminous and innovative efforts made by Dr P. Das, Deputy Director-General (Agril. Extn) and his dedicated team of scientists in bringing out this publication are commendable. (MANGALA RAI) Secretary Department of Agricultural Research and Education and Director-General Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi New Delhi 15 December 2004 Contents Introduction NDIGENOUS Technical Knowledge (ITK) in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and other and-based activities is being used since ages by the farmers, animal owners and other practitioners. Advancement in scientific knowledge in agriculture has questioned on rationality of ITKs and replaced these ITK-based practices. The problems of sustainability of modern scientific technologies and their impact on ecosystem and environment has evoked the interest on ITKs during the recent past.