 These peaks are associated with the vegetative growth stage of the chilli crop. • Oligonychus indicus on sugarcane is active from beginning of January to third week of September, the peak activity periods are May and September. • T.urticae on tomato starts two months after planting and reaches the peak when the crop is 31/2 – 4 months old. Its distribution is patchy. While population of nymphs and adults (17.7/cm2 leaf area) will be more in the middle canopy, while that of the eggs is more (6.7/cm2 leaf area) on top canopy leaves. • In Punjab brown wheat mite’s (Petrobia latens) population was monitored, it was observed that it reaches a peak of 154 mites/10cm2 leaf area during March. • The sheath mite of rice, Steneotarsonemus spinki was observed to reach high population causing severe damage (47 mites/leaf sheath) on variety Jaya and Gurjary in Navsari and the leaf mite, Oligonychus oryzae, population reached the peak 35 to 70 days after transplanting of rice. • On cucumber, the two spotted spider mite’s (Tetranychus urticae) population reaches a peak of 60 mites/leaf during April in Kalyani. Management of mite pests • A holistic package for the management of the coconut eriophyid mite has been developed by the Project which involves nutrient management (application of FYM, neem cake and recommended dosages of NPK and micronutrients like boron, magnesium, calcium etc) and spraying or root feeding of a neem based pesticide three times a year i.e., during May‐ June, September‐October and January‐February. This results in better retention of nut and overall increase of 34 to 53% in yield of nuts. This has been popularized in Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. The state Agriculture/Horticultural departments have adopted this package in their large scale demonstration. • Managing mites infesting roses is a problem since these have developed resistance to conventional acaricides, in this regard fenpyroximate, bifenthrin diafenthiuron and buprofezin have been able to cause 76‐93% mortality. • Studies on residues of acaricides indicated that dicofol and ethion residues on brinjal fruits reached below the prescribed MRL values in 2 and 7 days, respectively. • Studies on causes of resurgence of mite pests indicated that monocrotophos, cypermethrin, fenvalerate and deltamethrin are responsible for the high incidence of the yellow mite on chillies. • Propargite (200ml/acre) and dicofol (300ml/acre) were found effective against the spider mites infesting bell pepper grown under protected condition, on okra the mites could be controlled using fenazaquin @ 0.25 to 0.5 ml per litre of water which causes 70‐78% mortality of the mites. Evaluation of newer molecules • Flufenzin @ 80 and 100 g ai/ha and Clofentezine @ 300 g ai/ha caused significant • (>60%) reduction in the population of coconut eriophyid mites. But these were highly toxic to the predatory mite, Neoseiulus paspalivorus. www.icar.org.