 Neem formulation BBR recorded a repellency index upto 87% at 3% conc. in baits against rodents. • Jojoba seed cake powder (10‐20%) recorded a repellency index of up to 90% in Tatera indica. The aversion through learning persited for a week. Among other botanicals kaner seeds, neem cake, castor seeds and jatropha seeds too showed anti rodent properties in preliminary trials. Crude cotton‐seed oil (5%) showed anti fertility effects on bandicoots. • Male urine was found to possess sex pheromonal properties as it was reported to accelerate puberty in females. Vaginal opening was advanced for three weeks. Addition of fresh burrow sand in baits increases the bait acceptance and consumption in bandicoots indicating that urinary pheromones are involved in intra specific communication. • Alpha‐chlorohydrin (0.5%) in baits was found to cause mortality, however, the dead rats were observed to indicate reduced male organs (testes, epididymis) and aspermia in epididymal fluid. Similarly epi chlorohydrin @ 50‐100 mg/kg proved an effective male sterilant for lesser bandicoots. www.icar.org.in 117 2002 ‐ 2007 • An ecofriendly mechanical device named as ‘Burrow Fumigator’ was developed and recommended for farmers’ use in AP. For non chemical rodent control indigenous butta trap was found superior to Tanjore bow traps in trapping B. bengalensis and M. booduga (b) Rodenticides • The new Rodenticidal molecules evaluated against pest rodents included difethialone, coumatetralyl, cholecalciferol and alpha‐chlorohydrin. A new relatively safer and ready to use formulation of bromadiolone (0.005%) containing denatonium benzoate was found effective in containing the rodent menace. Attempts were made to develop a new formulation of bromadiolone by adding plaster of paris in bromadiolone bait which yielded 80% mortality of R. rattus within 5‐10 days. • Difethialone (0.0025%) in fresh baits proved effective against baitshy rodents. Vitamin K1 supplementation @ twice the dosage intake of Difethialone for two weeks was sufficient to reverse the anticoagulation process in rodents. • Reduction in dyke and regular weed management and anticoagulant baiting or AlP fumigation forms the package of rodent management in vegetable crops in hilly regions. (iii) Action Plans for Rodent Management in NEH Region Two pronged Action Plans (i) for researchers and (ii) for extension personnels was developed by AINP on Rodent Control for NEH region for effective management of Rodents during their upsurge synchronizing with bamboo flowering. Besides organizing a special Training on Rodent management in Arunachal Pradesh in association with CAU Imphal, the AINP has actively collaborated in imparting trainings in Manipur, Mizoram, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya. (iv) Technologies Developed for farmers Punjab: (i) Rodent control in fields of zero tillage wheat should be carried out by burrow baiting with freshly prepared zinc phosphide (2%) or bromadiolone (0.