 Efficient cropping system: Maize-tobacco cropping system is recommended as remunerative cropping system in terms of tobacco leaf equivalent yield (2,380 kg/ha) and net returns (` 139,285) for enhancing the farmers’ income in FCV tobacco growing Vertisols of Andhra Pradesh. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 62 CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 63 Soil fertility maps for FCV tobacco area: Soil fertility thematic maps were developed for FCV tobacco growing Southern Light Soils of Andhra Pradesh. These fertility maps used to rationalize fertilizer use and ensure balanced nutrition for obtaining higher yields and quality of FCV tobacco. incurred under conventional tillage carried out every year (CR-CR-CR-CR). The highest carbon productivity was recorded with conventional tillage carried out after every two years. The carbon sustainability index was with conventional tillage carried out every year or alternate years and remained at par with reaming treatments of conventional tillage. Cropping systems: The soybean yield remained unaffected due to preceding crops like wheat, chickpea and mustard. However, the soybean yield was marginally higher to the tune of 2.57 and 0.95% when preceding was mustard and wheat. When comparing the rabi crops yield, the maximum tonnage was recorded with wheat followed by chickpea and mustard. Similar was the case with reference to soybean equivalent yield (SEY). Soybean–wheat cropping system was found to be the most remunerative, energy and carbon efficient than soybean–chickpea and soybean-mustard. Effect of organic and inorganic management on productivity of soybean-based cropping systems: Three management systems (organic, inorganic and integrated) and two cropping systems, i.e. soybean– wheat and soybean–chickpea were tested. Soybean yielded higher (2.32%) when grown after chickpea crop than wheat. Soybean–wheat cropping system was more productive with less variability over years, remunerative and sustainable than soybean–chickpea cropping system. Among the management systems, the integrated management system showed their superiority over inorganic and organic management systems with regards to production with less variability over the years, economic gain and sustainability. While organic management system was more stable than integrated and inorganic systems. Soybean-chickpea cropping system was the most viable system under organic management system. A novel Rhizobium recovered for Indian soybean rhizosphere—Bradyrhizobium daqingense: A novel rhizobial strain Bradyrhizobium daqingense (NCBI Accession No. KX230052) was isolated for the first time from root nodules of soybean (drought-tolerant line PK-472). This strain along with other strains was evaluated on soybean under simulated moisture stress Maize–tobacco cropping system in Vertisols of Andhra Pradesh. Available zinc in southern light soils of FCV tobacco.