 In rabi season, low irrigation facility was another cause of not sowing of green fodder. Oat/ Berseem seed was broadcasted 5-6 days before harvesting of paddy in the field having moisture. It saved irrigation, ploughing cost and green fodder was ready for harvesting 21 days before than sowing of green fodder after ploughing. Production improved by 45.06 and 30.79% respectively in oat and berseem. More than 15-acre green fodder in rabi season were grown through relay cropping in Banka district of Bihar. Decrease wastage by planned sowing In most of the area of Bihar, it was observed that the average time taken to complete harvesting of green fodder from field was 15-20 days. Therefore, the first day harvest of the immature fodder and last day harvest over mature fodder resulted in less nutritions fodder. So, sowing of fodder at interval of 5 days and area decided according to animal rearing which fullfill the fodder requirement for only 5 days. So, sowing of green fodder in six groups resulted in 2™4 group in mature stage after harvesting of first group and first group fodder again ready for harvesting after harvesting of last group. So planned grazing land were developed under front line demonstration programme at five goat farms in Banka district. It helps in natural grazing, saving of labour for harvesting of green fodder and movement of goat. It enables land use for dual purpose. Use of non-conventional feed resources In the state districts, there is scarcity of green grasses Frontline demonstration of planned grazing land at farmer’s field in March-June. However, palas (Butea monosperma) has new green leaves during this time. Hilly area of Katoria, Chanan, Belhar, Fullidumar and some part of Banka block of Banka district have forest of Palas (Butea monosperma). So, use of palas leave as green fodder may combat the deficit of green fodder during scarcity period. The feeding trial on palas leaf as green fodder was also performed under on farm trial (OFT) by the KVK Banka and it was found that palas leaf was Indian Farming palatable upto 200 g/day and increased in weight gain by 630-640 g and average daily gain increased by 8.5-10 g/day. Farmers also successfully made silage by mixing with 50% sorghum. Low-cost hydroponic green fodder production Hydroponics is the scientific way of growing plants/ crops in water without any soil, but generally in controlled conditions/ environment. Fodders including maize, barley, wheat, oats, rye, alfalfa and triticale can be produced by hydroponics. Others, including cowpea, horse gram, sun hemp, ragi, bajra, foxtail millet and Jowar have also been grown successfully by the use of hydroponics. Production of hydroponic fodder under low-cost management can be an alternative to traditional fodder production. Feeding of hydroponically grown maize and wheat fodder can improve productive and reproductive efficiency of lactating cows with better economic return.