 IPM strategy yy Monitor for thrips infestation by placing blue or yellow sticky traps at regular intervals. yy Neem-based pesticides control young nymphs effectively, inhibit the growth of older nymphs and reduce the egg-laying ability of adults. Spaying of neem seed kernel extract (5%) or neem oil (2%) reduces the initial stages of the thrips effectively. yy If the infestation is severe, spray with insecticides like thiamethoxam 25% WG (0.3 g/litre) or Imidacloprid 17.8% SL (0.3 ml/litre). Fruit borer The fruit borer affects both mesocarp as well as seeds. The young larvae scrap the epidermal tissue and the mature ones bore into the fruit and feed on the pulp. The affected fruits exude resin and black or brown rough sticky patches can be seen in the infected areas. Management yy The spray of Lambda-Cyhalothrin 5 EC (1 ml per litre of water) at the marble stage of fruit and, if needed, repeat the spray after 15 days. Leaf webber (Orthaga euadrusalis Walker) This pest has become a serious and emerging problem as one of the most obnoxious pests in the northern states. Old orchards with less space between the tree canopies harbour more insects than open orchards. Its infestation begins in April and lasts until December. Initially, caterpillars feed on the leaf surface by scrapping. Later they make a web of tender shoots and leaves together and feed within them. The infestation is severe in shady conditions. IPM strategy yy Mechanical removal of leaf webs infested by leaf Webber by leaf web removing device and burning them. yy Spraying with lambda-cyhalothrin @ 1ml/litre at 15 days interval Thrips damage on mango Stone weevil damage on mango fruits coat, and later cause damage to the cotyledons. Pupation takes place inside the seed. Discolouration of the pulp adjacent to the affected portion has been observed. This is a major pest that affects the export and processing industry. There is only one generation in a year. IPM strategy yy Sticky bands should be applied at the upper end of the tree trunk to prevent the migration of weevils to branches for egg laying on fruits during February. yy Collection of all the fallen-infested fruits and their destruction. yy Keep the tree basins clean to prevent the hiding of adult weevils. yy Spray deltamethrin (0.0025%) six weeks after the fruit set. Thrips (Scirtothrips dorsalis) Thrips have created havoc in most of the mango- growing areas of the country. Thrips caused approximately half of the fruit damage recorded in severely affected orchards. Infestation starts with the new flushes and panicle emergence during the 13th to 22nd standard meteorological weeks (Second week of March to the last week of May) in the northern plains. The larval and adult stages are the damaging stages. The damage to the mango young leaves, growing buds, inflorescence, flowers, immature and developing fruits is by lacerating and sucking the sap from the tissues.