 ICAR shall continue to strive for this and accelerate the pace of basic and strategic research, which can be applied to address the R&D needs of agriculture and society at large. 3. Gandhiji’s Talisman and Priority Setting “Whenever you are in doubt, ….. Recall the face of the poorest and the weakest man (or woman)… and ask yourself, if the step you contemplate is going to be of any use to him (or her)... will it lead to swaraj (or freedom) for the hungry and spiritually starving millions…” Mahatma Gandhi Mahatma Gandhi laid great emphasis on reviving the rural economy, preserving the ecosystems and reducing the consumption not to create any stress on the environment. This talisman of Gandhiji champions the cause of ‘Sarvodaya through Antyodaya’ implying the welfare of all through the weakest of the society which lies at the core of the Indian Constitution. Gandhiji’s talisman is a call to the stakeholder to develop a framework so that they are effectively able to assess the needs of vulnerable sections and work towards their upliftment through agricultural research. The time has come for us to make his thoughts and philosophy a part of our economic policy. This is essential to internalize and embrace the Gandhian way of life and decision- making. How this Gandhian way of decision-making or setting priorities can be used to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of R&D through rationalization and use of resources with greater objectivity and transparency to address priority research themes. A formal priority setting mechanism was evolved and adapted to incorporate the concerns of equity and ecology. There are visible and perceptible changes in the allocation of research resources and utilization of funds across agro-ecosystems, production systems, and research themes, to address issues and concerns of poverty, marginal areas, gender issues, and institutional developments. Convergence in priority setting: The elements of objectivity, transparency and ability to make impacts are built into the priority setting approach. The resources are being allocated to a well-prioritized and targeted research agenda. The priority setting exercises focus on the vulnerable sections of farming society particularly smallholders, women in farming and other relevant equity-related indicators. Our marginal areas such as rainfed, arid and hill & mountain regions now account for two-thirds of public expenditure on agricultural research. The resource allocation towards the marginalized areas increased significantly over time. A notable example is the establishment of new institutes in the eastern region that have low productivity and a high incidence of poverty. ICAR has also made a deliberate attempt to allocate higher resources to R&D for the economic welfare of vulnerable sections have increased considerably.