 Nitrogen and phosphorus are essential nutrients for development of plant growth and subsequently high fertilization rates lead to N and P losses with negative impact on atmospheric greenhouse gases concentration and water quality. There is an urgent need to improve Nutrient Use Efficiency (NUE) in Agriculture and manage biochemical cycles in a sustainable way. The NUE of urea, the major nitrogen fertilizer, currently only averages 30-40% due to its sensitivity to volatilization, denitrification and leaching. The use of slow- and controlled-release fertilizers remains limited. China is by far the largest producer and consumer of smart fertilizers, amounting to one-third of global smart fertilizer (CRF) production. On-field experiments in China have shown 10-40% increase in rice yields with controlled-release fertilizers compared to those with urea. Even when less nitrogen was used, controlled-release fertilizers increased rice yield by 15%. Smart fertilizer use requires 20-30% less nitrogen fertilizer, reducing CO2 emissions for production. Smart fertilizers have lower N2O emissions during the growing season than common nitrogen fertilizers. Common nitrogen fertilizers lose 1-5% of application as N2O, a greenhouse gas 300 times stronger than CO2. Over the last 150 years, atmospheric N2O levels have risen 18%, largely due to nitrogen fertilizer use throughout the world. Smart fertilizers have lower N2O emissions during the growing season than common nitrogen fertilizers. While the cost effectiveness of applying encapsulated controlled release fertilizers in high-value crops is proven, there is also scope for their application to low-value crops. Total production costs can be reduced by 30% to 50% using smart fertilizers. The controlled supply of nutrients by a single application of a CRF is expected to increase NUE, save labor and/or application costs and improve crop quality and yield. Smart fertilizers are especially beneficial where nutrient loss from conventional fertilizers are high, such as on lightly textured soils with excess rainfall or irrigation. In order to enhance nutrient use efficiency, new types of smart fertilizers with an emphasis on controlled–release and carrier or delivery systems are need. The development of smart fertilizers could also be based on the use of microorganism or bio-fertilizers and nonmaterial (nanofertilizers) thereby reducing nutrient losses. Increased nutrient use efficiency reduced dose of phosphate by half to one fourth and increased yields by 10% thereby farmer income can be raised upto 15-20% . The use of smart fertilizers or rather smart input management should be directed to the economic benefits of Indian farmers for better adaptability. We can then only achieve sustainable agriculture which can feed our next generations to ensure food security and environmental health.