 In the conventional treatment, antibiotics, antiallergic, skin tonic and skin conditioner are used. The neem bark paste and neem oil are highly effective against bacterial skin lesions RESULTS AND DISCUSSION The neem oil was found highly effective against S. aureus and E. coli. Well impregnated with 850 µl neem oil showed maximum zone of inhibition, the area of zone varied from 8 mm to 15 mm with 750 and 850 µl neem kernel oil. However, the oil extract of neem leaves was not found effective Table 2. Efficacy of neem oil in Canine Dermatitis Treatment No. of Quantity Duration Recovery Remarks animals (days) (%) Conventional 7 As per standard 5–9 89 Costly treatment, may treatment cause allergic reaction Neem oil + 9 15–20 ml. dog 3–7 83 Highly efficacious, very neem bark safe, skin reactions not common In the conventional treatment of Ridd, Ectomen or Cypermethri n @ 0.01– 0.05 % medicinal solution is sprayed at 7 days interval with 4 applications to highly poisonous drugs required special precautions. Herbal application is less efficacious against Demodectic mange in dogs,but more effective in Sarcoptic mange. Efficacy of neem oil in canine dermatitis Impression smear was prepared from 16 dogs suffering from abdominal boils and other skin against the microorganism. CONCLUSION The study revealed that neem kernel oil is highly effective against pathogenic microorganism. Neem leaf oil extract was found effective. Neem oil was less effective in Demodectic mange mite infestation. Neem oil proved very effective against bacterial skin lesions.  FISHERIES Code : 424 Title of the ITK : Use of banana pseudostem in fish pond to enhance productivity of fish Description of the ITK : Pseudostems of banana, after harvesting the bunch, are added to the pond by cutting longitudinally, which increases the pH of pond water and oxygenation in water. This practice results in increase in fish yield. As it involves low cost, it is being followed by 80% of the farmers in the Basta village of Balasore district in Orissa. Name and address of the discloser : Shri Rabinarayan Mishra, College of Fisheries, Orissa University of Agriculture and Technology, Rangailurda, Berhampur, Ganjam (Orissa) 760 007. Location of use of the ITK : Basta, Basta, Balasore (Orissa) Experimenters : Dr C. Lodh, Lecturer, Department of Veterinary Medicine, Ethics and Jurisprudence,West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata, West Bengal, and Dr B.K. Chand, Farm Manager, Directorate of Research, Extension and Farms, West Bengal University of Animal and Fishery Sciences, Kolkata, West Bengal METHODOLOGY Location The efficacy of banana pseudostem for increasing the water quality of pond was evaluated by participatory rural appraisal (PRA) and experimental methods. Participatory rural appraisal was done it village Basta, dist. Balasore (Orissa) and the experiment was also conducted at the same location.