 The treatment starts from the second week of June till the last week of August. Small polybags (filled with rooting medium) are fastened at the points where rooting needs to be initiated. A lightweight substrate (cocopeat) having high moisture holding capacity is used as rooting medium. Staking is accomplished with the help of bamboo poles to hold the bags in a proper position and to keep the plants straight. This technology is very useful in promoting the vertical expansion of the nursery in greenhouse conditions and the multiplication of number of plants per unit area has increased by three to four times with minimum utilization of extra inputs and area. One more additional benefit of this technology is that under the greenhouse conditions, the rootstocks attain sufficient girth (> 6 mm) and all the plants are suitable for budding. The technology not only produced the additional 3-4 rootstocks but also the budded plants which have added advantage to this technology. Salvinia molesta infested pond before release of bioagent 50% clearing of pond by 8 months after release of bioagent 80% control by 13 months after release Complete control by 18 months Release of bioagent in December 2019 Brown patches showing killing of weed due to bioagent Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 101 Multilayer multiplication technology of clonal rootstocks of apple by air layering under protected conditions With bunch thinning and ethrel application Without bunch thinning and ethrel application Technology for Propagation of Clonal Rootstocks of Apple through Cutting under Greenhouse in Soilless Beds Sunken beds of dimensions 2.5 0 ft (76 cm wide) and 1.0 ft (30 cm) depths were prepared. After preparing the sunken beds, the beds were filled with sand and cocopeat. The lower 6 inches (15 cm) of the bed were filled with sand while the upper 6 inches (15 cm) were filled with cocopeat. The purpose of digging out soil from the beds is to fill it with sand and cocopeat to make soilless beds conducive for planting the cuttings, and to avoid weeds and reduce the water requirement considerably. The cuttings of 30 cm size of pencil thickness (8- 10 mm) with 8-9 buds were selected and planted in the first week of March in these beds. The lower portion of the cuttings was given a horizontal cut and light cut on either side of the cutting at the base to expose more of the cambium for callusing. Before planting, the cuttings were given fungicidal treatment (Carbendazim 3 g/litre of water) for 20-25 seconds and dipped in rooting hormone Indole Butyric Acid IBA (2500 ppm) for 10-15 seconds. The cuttings were planted in the soilless beds at a spacing of 3 inches (7.62 cm) both in a row-to-row and cutting-to-cutting to accommodate 52 cuttings per sq. meter area. With this technology, 40-45 plants with well-developed root systems were harvested per square meter area of the soilless beds.