 Rainbow trout farming at ICAR-DCFR, Bhimtal Indian Farming November 2020 52 year. However, this limited production can further be raised up to 700 g/m2 by adopting multi-tier model for integrated fish farming using polytanks. These plastic (silpaulin) film lined ponds are suitable for rainwater harvesting in uplands where scarcity of water becomes major bottleneck in agricultural production or diversification from poorly remunerative production to scientifically recommended production considering local climatic and soil advantages. In Himalayan hilly tracts, such ponds are being used for rainwater harvesting or storing the water from low discharge springs which otherwise cannot be directly used for irrigation purposes. The following steps are involves in the preparation of polytank Digging of the pond (100 m3 from 80 to 100 m2 land area), removing sharp edge material (stone pieces) embedded on the walls and the bottom of the pond. Plastering the inside wall and bottom by using a mixture of fine soil and water mixture to smooth them. Lining the pond’s walls and bottom with polythene/ silpaulin (200-250 g per meter). Advanced Fingerlings (20-25 g) of silver carp, grass carp, improved common carp and minor carp are stocked at the rate of 3-4 fish/m3. Vegetable waste/terrestrial grass is used for grass carp feeding @ 20% of total fish biomass daily. Waste of grass carp in the form of faecal matter acts as manure in pond water and enrich the plankton production which is the natural feed for silver carp. Some part of the faecal matter is directly eaten by common carp. Stored water in the poly tanks also acts as buffer stock and is used for the irrigation of horticulture crops. This water remains rich in nitrogen content and also acts as manure for horticulture plot. In hills, the agriculture is mainstay of the inhabitants but the average land holding is 700-900 m2 compared to national average 1370 m2. The soil productivity is less due to marked water shortage during the summer in the streams of hills, soil is gravelly and porous that has low water holding capacity which limits the production cycle and farm activities. This is the main cause of migration of the young people to the plains for earning their livelihood. In this context, this model has a lot of scope to intensify in the mid hills for increasing the productivity of the land that can help in ensuring nutritional and livelihood security in the hills which ultimately, would decrease the pressure on the metropolitan cities since this would check the migration from hills to plains. There is great scope for disseminating this promising technology in sub to mid Himalayan belt in order to upgrade the socio- economic conditions of the inhabitants. With an expenditure of ` 3,000/100m3 a gross income of ` 11,200/100m3 was achieved with net return of 273%.