 It is estimated that in India, annual demand of the Kapoor kachari is approximately 400 tonnes per year with average price of ` 100-110 per Kg. Major Phytochemicals: The essential oil (0.06 to 6.12% w/w) obtained from the rhizome of this plant having 1,8-cineole (27–75%) as the major component. Camphene, myrcene, sabinene, α-pinene, and α, β-phellandrene were also reported from the essential oil of the rhizome in significant quality making it an important plant for healing. Other components are (E)-caryophyllene, (-) spathulenol, 1-epi-cubenol, 4-terpineol, 4-thujanol, borneol, camphene, camphor, caryophyllene oxide, cubebene, elemol, germacrene d-4-ol, hedycaryol, limonene, sabinene, spathulenol, terpine-4-ol, a-cadinol, a-eudesmol, a-humulene, a-selinene, a-terpinene, a-terpineol, a-thujene, b-caryophyllene, b-cadinene, beudesmol, b-farnesene, b-himachalene, b-myrcene b-phellandrene, c-muurolene, p-cymene and d-cadinene have also been reported in the essential oil of the species. Homalomena aromatica Presence in NER: Homalomena aromatica (Spreng.) Schott is widely distributed and endemic to different part of NER. It is known by different names in different states viz., Assam (Sugandhmantri), Tripura (Kuchugundubi/ Gandhaki) and Mizoram (Anchiri). Plant description: H. aromatica is an evergreen, perennial, terrestrial and aromatic medicinal plant which belongs to the family Araceae. It can grow to a height of 40-45 cm with an erect and short stem. The length of the leaves is 20-35 cm and broadness of 15-25 cm with long petioles and sheathing below. The leaf blades are ovate and often cordate. The economic part of this plant is the rhizome which is known in trade as ‘Sugandhmantri’ and has a strong camphor like smell. Relevance in ethno and modern medicine: The rhizomes possess medicinal properties like antidepressant, antiseptic, analgesic, anti-inflammatory, antispasmodic, sedative and helps in treating joint pain and skin infections. The rhizome has been used to treat asthma, cough and liver diseases. It is also used as a mosquito repellent. The rhizome paste is also used for stomach problems. The whole plant is taken to treat muscle weakness and rheumatism, The essential oil of this plant shows antifungal activities. Relevance in food and culinary practices: The petiole of the plant is used as a condiment due to its pleasant aroma. Industrial relevance: The aromatic rhizomes contain essential oil which is used wildly in perfumery and cosmetic industry. The spent material after extraction of essential oil is largely used in the Dhoop industry. The presence of sesquiterpenoids in its essential oil impart a characteristic aroma and fragrance, which makes this plant highly valuable in perfume and cosmetic industry. Trade: The average market price of Sugandhmantri (dried root) is ` 350 per kg. Major phytochemicals: The essential oil of H.