 Management of irrigation water (i.e. frequency of irrigation and duration of irrigation at the right time) is crucial. Access component Farmer’s accessibility to water and farm location of water sources is an important issue that encompasses ’access’ to a water source. It relates directly to land slope and soil texture with the water available to the crop’s root zone. Conflicts over water distribution are a sign of human behaviour when it comes to accessibility. Indicators such as land slope can be improved on a large scale in the study area. Subsidies for farm machinery for land slopes can make sense. Small-scale, low-cost farming technology can help improve soil conditions and slope. Use component The northern part of Khadke-Madke and the eastern region of Vihamandawa were considered the weakest and the central part of Hatgaon, Maygaon and the southern part of Apegaon village the stron­ gest on the utilization component scale. Yield to precipitation and yield to number of water sources scored average values in agricultural water stress assessments. There were many variations in sugarcane yield in terms of average annual rainfall and the number of water sources available for agriculture. The indicator ’abandoned or ploughed land after cultivation’ was rated comparatively well (Fig. 7). Capacity component Regarding capacity, Hatgaon and some parts of Vihamandwa were observed with low values, and some parts of Khadke-Madke, Apegaon and Maygaon were observed with high values in capacity component. The weakest observed sub-component of capacity is ’water storage ca­ pacity’. It has been observed that not one farmer in 30 has a farm pond on their land (Fig. 7). Although the study area has a dam water supply, the farm pond provides a secure supply of irrigation water for cash crops such as sugar Fig. 2. Status of different components of the Agriculture Water Poverty Index. R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 8 Fig. 3. Spatial distribution of different components of AWPI. R.H. Wadghane and O. Madguni Smart Agricultural Technology 6 (2023) 100369 9 cane, banana, etc. all year round. Formal education about the water management component and knowledge of water management at farm level was rated as low. Scores for sub-components of capacity such as ’Modern Farmer’ and ’Modern Irrigation’ were rated as low (Fig. 7). A low value for the average watering hour for a single watering in­ dicates that power is available in the study area for a shorter period of time. There is a tremendous opportunity to improve the pump power used for irrigation (Fig. 7). Livelihood diversification can be measured by counting the per­ centage of households with non-agricultural employment. An improve­ ment in non-agricultural activities is possible in the study area (Fig. 7). Environment component Water quality is a key indicator of the environmental components of agricultural water stress.