 The industrial revolution of Britain had been mainly founded by destroying many of India’s manufacturing industries, which were flourishing then. Textile was a classic case of structural destruction by the British, which represents the first great de-industrialization of the modern world. India had about 25% share of the global textiles trade during early eighteenth century. The industry was systematically damaged by cutting off export markets, the introduction of modern techniques, and many ruthless measures, which led Lord William Bentinck to remark – “the bones of the cotton weavers were bleaching the plains of India” (Tharoor 2016). Gandhiji believed that re-introduction of spinning in the homes of villages would help save millions from starvation (Gandhi 1920). Spinning wheel, the foremost artefacts of Gandhian propaganda represented different values like economic self-sufficiency, mastery over machinery and harmony between the rich and the poor (Parel 1969). Reviving the weaving and spinning skills is fundamental to develop a village-centric economy. ICAR has two research institutions on cotton, one with the focus to develop farm technologies 137 to enhance cotton production (ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research) and another with focus on cotton technology (ICAR-Central Institute for Research on Cotton Technology). Till the time India got independence in 1947, diploid Asiatic cottons (Gossypium arboreum, G. herbaceum), which were suitable for marginal and rainfed area owing to their tolerance to drought, pests and diseases, were under cultivation in over 97% of the cotton grown areas. However, the traditional Asiatic cotton cultivars were considered as low yielders and of poor fibre quality. Development of the high yielding upland cotton varieties (G. hirsutum) and the hybrids especially Bt transgenic cotton hybrids, led to the replacement of traditional Asiatic cotton cultivars and which now occupy nearly 97% of the cotton acreage. Efforts made by cotton breeders of NARES resulted in long-linted G. arboreum cotton varieties like PA 812 that are having higher productivity and better fibre quality with inherent tolerance to drought, diseases and pests and are better suited to the climatic conditions of our country. This kind of climate-smart native cotton varieties offer the marginal and rainfed cotton growers a choice to produce quality cotton of more than 30 mm staple length with minimum inputs. ICAR- CICR demonstrated that seed priming treatments using KH2P04 and Trichoderma viride give superior performance over control concerning percentage germination, speed of germination, highest index, etc. Also showed that the Foliar spray of micronutrient mixture followed by neem kernel extract were highly promising in obtaining higher quantity of de-linted seed yield (ICAR-CICR- Annual Report: 2018-19).