 In fact, the studies unequivocally observed that ‘quality labels’ do lead to an increase in product price (Balogh, Bekesi, Gor- ton, Popp, & Lengyel, 2016; Combris, Lecocq, & Visser, 1997; Costanigro, McCluskey, & Goemans, 2010; Stefani, Romano, & Cavicchi, 2006). Studies on GI in India have largely been limited to certain products. The ﬁrst GI tag in India, for instance, was awarded to Darjeeling Tea in 2004. Rao (2005) studied the issues in the TRIPS agreement within India’s context and chose to speciﬁcally explore Darjeeling Tea as a case. The author pointed out that by the year 2000, while 10,000 tons of Dar- jeeling Tea was being produced in the Indian state of Darjee- ling, 40,000 tons of tea was actually being sold under its tag (i.e., Darjeeling Tea). This does highlight a clear case of ‘counterfeit’ to which, the ‘GI tag’ seems to be the only solution. Jena and Grote (2012) surveyed 299 Basmati and non-Basmati growing farmers in the Indian state of Uttarak- hand; intended as a welfare analysis of Basmati production. The authors noted that growing Basmati was more proﬁtable than growing non-Basmati rice. Further, they indicated that growing Basmati seemed to have signiﬁcantly increased the welfare of the households. Based on the discussion thus far, we propose to further explore the beneﬁts of a GI tag, espe- cially for producers. Besides, we also discuss the impact of a GI tag on the farmers’ cultivation decisions by studying the cropping patterns over the years. It may be noted here that one of the main objectives of a Geographical Indication (GI) is to promote exports of the product/s. However, only a few studies seemed to have documented the link between GIs and exports, and even the ones that do exist, have primarily been ‘case-driven’. Agostino and Trivieri (2014) used the gravity model to ﬁnd that quality wines produced in a speciﬁc region (QWPSR) attracted higher export prices. Sorgho and Larue (2014) also used the same model to ﬁnd that there is a positive impact of GI on trade if both importing and exporting countries have GI-protected products. Raimondi et al. (2019) used country product GI data of the European Union to ﬁnd that if GI is indeed protected in the exporting country, it does posi- tively affect intensive as well as extensive margins of trade. We contribute to extant literature in at least two critical ways; ﬁrst, we provide evidence of a strong positive effect of GIs on agricultural exports for all agricultural products at a disaggregated level. In the process, we show that empiri- cal evidence on the trade effects of GIs from product-level case studies thus far tends to generalise to the full spectrum of agricultural products. Second, our study makes progress in identifying the complementary role of judicial efﬁciency and transport infrastructure in enabling increased exports in response to GIs. GIs in India India uses the Sui Generis method of protecting GIs.