 But actual field searches revealed its very few and sparse populations only at three locations. Its plants were regenerated successfully from propagules under mist- house conditions. Nearly 3,000 saplings could be produced in four years. For rehabilitation, the plants were reintroduced into natural habitats predicted by the ENM. Introduced plants showed excellent survival, growth, flowering and seed- set. Observations on the build-up of its self-sustaining populations indicated its introduced rehabilitation successful under natural conditions. Spent- wash effect on murum disintegration: Poor productivity of degraded lands is one of the major constraints limiting crop yields. Murum disintegration was in the following decreasing order: Sugarcane- spent wash > Napier grass> Lucerne> Subabul > Sugarcane > Soybean- Wheat-spent wash> Maize-sorghum> Soybean+ Wheat > Control + spent wash > control in the irrigated areas; and Subabul >Anjan > Sorghum fodder in the rainfed areas. Treatment enhanced ion- exchange process and also produced organic acids (humic acid, fulvic acid) and others, which accelerated process of chemically induced physical weathering of rocks through improved ion- exchange phenomenon. Sugarcane equivalent yield was recorded maximum in Sugarcane-spent wash; which was significantly superior to all other treatments. Nano-composites for multiple stress resilience in aquaculture: Nano-composites were developed by trapping novel biologically synthesized nanoparticles in aluminosilicates. Modification of the surface and pores of the aluminosilicates makes them ideal for varied aquaculture applications. Groundwater-recharge assessment in wheat- growing areas: Based on the criterion developed for qualitative assessment of groundwater recharge during monsoon, districts were categorized for recharging Upgraded Mridaparikshak An upgraded version of Mridaparikshak mini lab for Soil Testing and Fertilizer Recommendation has been developed. This can estimate 15 important soil parameters — pH, EC, organic-carbon, available nitrogen, phosphorus, potassium, sulphur, zinc, boron, iron, copper, manganese, gypsum requirement (GR), lime requirement (LR) and calcareousness. It can give soil- and crop-specific fertilizer recommendations directly to farmers on their mobiles through SMS. Biochar influenced GHG emission from FYM: Panels B, D represent FYM without biochar; panels A, C represent FYM with biochar. Biochar reduced greenhouse gas emission and enhanced composting process (A, C) Saplings of Ceropegia bulbosa ready-to-be reintroduced in the natural habitat; close-up of flower (inset) Soil and water productivity Biochar (BC) reduced greenhouse gases from compost: Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission was measured from FYM amended with biochar in which fresh cow-dung was mixed with biochar at 2% w/w. Measurement was at regular interval using static chamber, and gas samples were analyzed by gas chromatograph.