 In some places fermenting vat or bottle is placed in cowdung pit (mahlash) where the generated heat provides warmth for better fermentation (Tribal areas of Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 19 Katha extraction The heart wood chips of the plant, khari (Acacia catechu) are boiled in earthen pots along with water for about 12 hrs or till the boiling mixture attains a thick syrup like consistency and this is poured into moulds dug out in fine sand which absorbs the tannic acid (liquid) and leaves behind a residue of catchin (katha) in crystallized form. On cooling ,it solidifies and then is cut into small bricks for sale in the market under the trade name katha. In India, it is consumed with betel leaves and used medicinally for intestinal disorder and is known to improve digestion (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 296 16 Agro-animal based Yarns/Natural Dyes and Weaves S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 1 Skinner (Kataru) Skinner is a traditional implement used for taking off the skin of slaughtered goat/sheep (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 2 Extraction of fibre and seeds from bhang’ cannabis Bhang cannabis is cultivated in Chhota/Bada Bhangal of Kangra and Karsog area of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh for the extraction of fibre and seeds. Its green leaves are used for extracting narcotics which are very addictive and its cultivation is illegal. After maturation the harvested crop is set aside to dry. After drying, the seeds are collected and the fibre is separted from the stems and branches. Its fibre, being stronger than jute is used for making ropes of varying thickness (Kangra and Mandi, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 3 Enhancing wool production in sheep Capsion shrub (stem of 20 to 25cm diameter) is fed to sheep along with its bark to enhance the wool production. The stem is a rich source of sulphur containing aminoacids (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 4 Leather tanning Leather tanning and trading is a traditional business for some village communities. Raw leather is treated to soften it. A special site called kund (tank) for processing leather is found many villages. It is normally isolated from the rest of the village. A glassful of latex of Calotropis gigantea is added in the kund filled with water (100 to 150 litres). Small pieces of the bark and trunk of Acacia nilotica are added to it. Raw leather is immersed in it and turned over everyday and kept soaked for about one and a half months. Once the leather is removed from the tank, it is cleaned in water. Small fibers on the inner side of the processed (ripened) leather are scraped away with a knife and it is again washed and cleaned in water. Salt is dusted on the surface and it is kept in the sun for three days for drying. This process Rohit (1996) 297 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference improves the texture and colour of leather.