 In the case of deemed-to-be- universities, the number of members of the panel may be increased to a maximum of 9, and one of these members may be from the international organization or university. The QRT members should possess generally an expertise in the subject relevant to the programme/institute/unit under review with wider experience of research, education, extension, socio- economic impact analysis and management. They should satisfy the following criteria. • The Chairman of the QRT should be an eminent scientist having specialized knowledge of the subjects and areas of research covered by the concerned institute/unit, and should possess wider knowledge and experience of such critical reviews in the ICAR or other research organizations. A scientist with broader knowledge and experience should be preferred. • The composition of the QRT would be made through joint consultations between the Chairman of the QRT, ICAR Hqrs and the Head of the institute/unit. • While selecting members, it should be ensured that some of them should be with experience of similar QRT work. Scientists of eminence serving within the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) will also be eligible to become the member of the QRT. One member of the team should be an economist for economic analysis of the research output as well as of the transfer of technology. It would 'Terms of references for the committee is placed at Appendix 1. 2 also be desirable that an expert in management is associated with the team. • The willingness of the Chairman and the members of the QRT shall be ascertained by the ICAR Secretariat of the concerned subject- matter division. The Director of the institute/the Head of the respective unit should be requested to suggest names of the QRT members, which could be taken into consideration along with other suggestions from the ICAR Hqrs. • Up to 50% of the members could be drawn on the basis of their broad experience in agricultural research/socio-economic research/extension or management. Specialists having broad experience in the management of multidisciplinary programmes should be given preference. • The Director of the institute/the Head of the respective unit in consultation with the concerned DDG should identify a member as Secretary of the QRT for assisting the Chairman in work. He should be posted with the necessary authority and logistic support for the QRT work. Once the team is commissioned, the responsibility should be entrusted to the Institute/unit for providing the necessary assistance till the team submits its report. The DDG should monitor the process the interest of QRT, and ensure that all the requisites of the QRT are fulfilled. • A single QRT would be constituted for each of the institute/unit. If the heads of the institutions also perform the functions of co-ordination of AICRPs, and also operate KVKlTTC, then the QRT constituted for the institute/unit will also review functioning of the AICRP, KVK and TIC.