 Authorized certification agencies to undertake certification process are available at www.apeda.com/npop. In 2006, India’s organic certification process under NPOP has been granted equivalence with European Union and Switzerland. It has also been recognized for conformity assessment by USDA’s NOP. SUMMARY Organic farming provides quality food products and fibers which are beneficial to human health without adversely affecting soil health and environment. Organic farming is a way to keep the soil alive and in good health through the use of biological wastes and other biological materials along with beneficial microbes to release plant nutrients (macronutrients and micronutrients) to crops for increased sustainable production in an ecofriendly, pollution free environment. There is a need to identify suitable crops/ products on agro climatic zone basis as conventional farming is shifting its way towards organic farming. Some agro climatic zones have great potential for organic farming and many products can be produced organically. Trading is a major constraint in organic farming due to policy issues. Organic farming can provide ample opportunities for employment. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: spsinghsahab@gmail.com Organic farming packages and models Organic farming packages for 4 cropping systems suitable to Gujarat, Kerala, Rajasthan, Sikkim and Uttarakhand were developed as per National Programme for Organic Production (NPOP) standards. Groundnut-wheat-green gram system registered 6.1 t/ha of groundnut equivalent yield with ` 1.43 lakh/ha as net returns while cassava-groundnut system in Kerala resulted in cassava tuber equivalent yield of 32 t/ha under organic production system. Fennel-cluster bean system recorded fennel equivalent yield 2.2 t/ha with net income and B:C ratio of ` 75,808/ha and 2.21 respectively. Under Sikkim conditions, maize + ginger – French bean resulted in 15 t/ha of maize equivalent yield with net return of ` 2.99 lakh/ha. Source: ICAR Annual Report (2020) Indian Farming January 2022 39 Use of neem and neem based products I N ancient India, about 60% income was based on agriculture. Land was fertile and it was cultivated using all natural methods and components. At that time, there was no use of pesticides, only natural products like animal waste were used as pesticides. Instead of inorganic chemical fertilizers, only organic manures made with harmless natural ingredients were used. But nowadays, agriculture is mainly dependent on inorganic fertilizers and pesticides. Though these chemicals give more profit but are harmful for human health as well as soil fertility. Organic farming is a technique which uses natural and biological methods to enhance soil fertility and maintain ecological balance in farming systems. Organic farming makes use of biopesticides, organic manure and bio-fertilizers for nutritional supply to the crop plants.