0 in December Colour Yellow Dark Brown Light brown Golden yellow Taste Sweet Sweet Sweet Sweet Hardness Hard Hard Hard Hard Storage life Longer Longer Average Longer storage life storage life storage life storage life Ratoonability Good Average Average Excellent Cane yield 335 qtl/acre 320 qtl/acre 305 qtl/acre 335 qtl/acre Indian Farming January 2022 13 as scum, which must be removed before juice starts boiling. Afterwards, juice is boiled vigorously for 2.5 to 3.0 hours to evaporate the water for concentrating the syrup. After attaining temperature of 100°C, flame should be reduced till the concentrated juice reaches the striking point (114-116°C) for gur and (120-122ºC) for Shakkar making. • Moulding and packaging: After attaining the striking point, material is transferred to wooden or aluminum moulds where after cooling, it solidifies. Afterwards, it could be moulded into different shapes using specially designed moulds or khurpa. Suitable time for jaggery preparation Jaggery preparation is not carried out throughout the year as it requires mature canes. Generally, this operation starts from November and continues up to April. However, for best quality jaggery, selection of cane cultivars and time of jaggery preparation matters a lot. From early and mid-late sugarcane cultivars, the best time for jaggery preparation starts from November and December, and January to April, respectively. Value addition and storage of jaggery For value addition, jaggery is blended with different natural flavours and taste additives like ginger, black pepper, cardamom, till and peanuts. Jaggery should be air dried before storing. From storage aspects, at household levels it is traditionally stored in earthen pots, wooden boxes, metal drums, polythene bags, etc. To avoid microbial infestation during the rainy season, jaggery should be stored at low temperature (4°C-9°C). Under any condition, for maintaining good jaggery quality, while storing the moisture content should not exceed 6% and be kept at a relative humidity of 43–61%. Sugarcane cultivars and jaggery quality Selection of a good cane cultivar is a must for having the quality jaggery. In Punjab’s climatic conditions for eating and keeping the quality of Gur, best cane cultivars recognized are CoPb 92, Co 118, CoJ 85 and CoJ 88. SUMMARY Jaggery is better than sugar as far as nutritional values are concerned. Jaggery preparation not only provides additional nutrients in our diet but also adds to the overall income of the farmers which further improves their livelihood. Majority of the farmers produce jaggery with minimal capital input without caring about the scientific technique of jaggery preparation with value addition and also ignore the selection of sugarcane cultivars. Further, it is also critical to protect farmers’ profits by increasing both quantity and the quality of their jaggery units with value addition and current technology for packaging and jaggery-based products.