 It helped in managing termites in sugarcane as well as khaira disease in rice. Common salt was found to be a very useful input. They stressed that common salt not only helped in management of termites in sugarcane as well as rice but also improved the health of both the crops. When they found these crops becoming yellow, common salt was broadcast after irrigation. They claimed that its impact was quick. Plants turned dark green and remained healthy. Common salt performed better than urea. Also, lime and salt were cheaply and readily available. They also stressed that yield was higher with use of salt in sugarcane and rice; however, in sugarcane the sweetness become poor. Common salt is mostly used in uplands and light soil as well as leased- in lands. Educated farmers shared that salt application was popular with small and marginal farmers as well as share- croppers. They expressed concern about fertility of soil in their area with continuous use of salt by uneducated farmers. Experiment In the control plot, about 34% setts were damaged by termites (Table 3). The termite infestation were found to be 14.6,12.8 and 11.5 in plots with treatments of ITK, salt alone and phorate respectively. Besides other factors like diseased setts, termite infestation was mainly responsible for effecting the germination of setts. The setts were eaten up and made hollow by the termites. About 5–10 termites were found per sett. Apparently the finding showed that termite infestation was managed by the application of salt along with lime as well as alone, though it was not at par with phorate. However, the mode of action of lime and salt in controlling the termites needs closer examination to draw conclusion about the effectiveness of lime and salt for termite management in soil. The trial is in progress. Three trials had to be abandoned in midway as the farmer obtained for intercrops in the plots. With intercropping and varied agronomic practices the conditions did not remain ideal for the trial. Trial in standing crop Trial was also laid out with treatments in standing crop at Hareli village. The plots selected for the trial was ideal , as about 90% infestation was observed. The standing crop was yellow, with germination gap of 30–40%. Even the germinated setts had infestation of termite. The population range of termite was 10–20 per sett. The soil of the trial plot was sandy loam. The standing crop was treated with lime and salt, salt alone and phorate. Observations for population of termite, crop health and new germination were taken after 7 days and 15 days. Incidence of 61.3, 64.6, 44.2% was observed in the plots treated with lime and salt, salt alone and phorate respectively (Table 4). The findings indicate that population of termites around the setts is reduced with the use of ITK. Table 3. Pre-sowing treatment and impact on germination of setts and pest infestation Treatment GerminationInfestation Lime + salt (ITK) 78.6 14.6 Salt 77.4 12.