 Especially, the Student READY, which is a mandatory component of all the under graduate programmes in agriculture and allied sciences encompassed RAWE and Experiential Learning based on this concept. He preaches the doctrine of simple living and high thinking. His education systems greatly emphasize the culture of peace, sincere work, dedication to the nation, right feelings, economic advancement, physical improvement and socio-cultural progress. While framing the syllabus, the due importance is being given for the development of national human resources capital in the field of agriculture and making our graduates professionally competent, socially sensitive and ethically strong. On the path of Gandhian philosophy, the highest priority has been given to agricultural education for the alleviation of hunger, undernutrition, poverty and inequity. Accordingly, the framework of agricultural education has been designed to ensure excellence, relevance, and creation of skilled and entrepreneurial human resources to achieve high quality of products, farmers profitability, high input and natural resources use efficiency and inclusiveness. 151 Chapter 14 Gender Empowerment through Village Institutions and Education SK Srivastava and G Maharana “Woman is the companion of man, gifted with equal mental capacity. If by strength is meant moral power, then woman is immeasurably man’s superior.” MK Gandhi 1. Introduction The role and position of women in India has been witnessed in different eras and in different classes, religion, and ethnic group. Exploitation of women in and outside their home was prevailing in the society. There were many philosophers, social reformers and thinkers like Raja Ram Mohan Roy, Swami Dayanand Saraswati, who strived endlessly to bring the change in the condition of Indian women during the period which may empower them to become “better wives” and “better mothers. He believed that man and women are as equals and complementing each other. Women were considered as ‘self-conscious objects’ according to Gandhiji and he integrated them in the ‘masses’ in a most natural way. He recognized that due to the conservativeness attitude of the men, different traditional customs and law, women have been concealed under different circumstances. There had been many examples where women have been taught to consider themselves as slaves of men. But now the time has come to realize the status of women in society and give them equal right as equals of men. Mahatma Gandhi characterized women as of ‘ahimsa’, which represents love and infinite capacity for suffering. 2. Gandhiji’s view on Gender Equality Mahatma Gandhi, the father of the nation was a great human being in the form of a leader, philosopher, and an educational pioneer of great repute. He tried to establish a free and casteless society without any exploitation and racial discrimination. Gandhiji strongly emphasized that there should be no inequality in the wages paid to men and women.