5 ton grapes per batch is commissioned at M/s Sahyadri Farm, Mohadi, Nasik, Maharashtra state for export of grapes to New Zealand and Australia. The technology needs upscaling for effective commercial application. 7.8. RFID-based quality tracing system for environmental monitoring and supply chain management of agri-food products A radio frequency identification device (RFID) based quality tracing system for real time monitoring of environmental parameters like temperature, RH, ethylene gas in the vicinity of food products stored in cold stores/warehouses and ripening chambers has been developed. The system is integrated with a temperature sensor (-40 to 80 °C), RH (0 to 100 %) and ethylene sensor (0-2000 ppm). The system is sensitive towards ethylene generations by various food products especially perishables (Banana, Tomato, Guava etc.) and is suitable for monitoring deviations in environmental parameters. It can also be utilized for tracing origin and movement using IoT and block chain technology. It requires further research to use the technology for multiple commodities in the country. 7.9. Sensor-assisted vacuum hermetic fumigation for stored grains Vacuum Hermetic Fumigation (VHF) is a hermetic based technology in which vacuum is utilized for modification of the interstitial atmosphere of the storage ecosystem. Vacuum reduces the water vapour and oxygen content of the storage ecosystem that kills the insect due to hypoxia and dehydration. The vacuum of 100 mm of Hg was found suitable for killing insects within three days. Although for storage of longer duration requires 300 mm of Hg for effective insect control. The VHF is effective against all life forms of insects i.e., egg, larva, pupae and adult. The flexible hermetic bags made of PVC are available in market at an affordable price and these bags can be used for VHF storage. The flexible bags shrink over the stored commodities due to vacuum. Regular maintenance of the vacuum level is very critical for successful storage under VHF. The sensors and actuators would be useful for automation of such VHF storage systems. The VHF stored food grains are without any fumigants hence the market acceptability is comparatively high. The VHF can be used in combination with the carbon dioxide, biogas and botanical derivatives for enhanced protection against insects during storage. 7.10. Sensor-based rapid food quality and safety detection Hyperspectral imaging (HSI) is one of the advanced methods of assessing quality, safety and authenticity of the food. The spatial and spectral information obtained for a food sample via HSI requires rigorous computation task and data mining. Protocols for rapid detection of aflatoxin-B1 (25 to 500 ppb) in maize have been developed using Vis-NIR hyperspectral imaging. The pioneering work on non-destructive methods for quality evaluation of Indian Agriculture after Independence 308 mango using NIR and colour has been granted a patent to ICAR-CIPHET in 2019.