 For further interaction, please write to: Dr T Dr T Dr T Dr T Dr Tanuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth anuja Buckseth (Senior Scientist), ICAR-Central Potato Research Institute, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 001. E-mail: tanujagbpuat@gmail.com a. Initial tissue culture plantlet ready to remove apical stem to avoid apical dominance; b. Multiple shoots development which increases the multiplication rate November–December 2019 65 I N THE year 2007-08, about 7% of potato production was used in processing industries. According to industry trends, the demand for potato as a processing will increase rapidly for the next 40 years in which chips, french fries and flakes and powder are estimated at 4.5, 11.6 and 7.6%, respectively. Processing increases the value of potato of the smallholder farmer which leads to better prices and also improves the household income. In addition, processed potatoes have extended shelf life. To make potato chips, very simple machinery/ equipment is required. Processing not only reduces post- harvest losses, but also benefits farmers after selling finished potato products. Women play an important role in the management of diet along with ensuring the adoption and use of potatoes indoors. On a small scale, women or youth can be employed to sell potato chips in the local market and earn money other than their basic income. It can also provide employment opportunities for rural women. Setting up smaller units of chips, papads, etc. in rural areas and connecting them to urban markets can be one of the options to increase income and employment opportunities for women. By promotion and propagation of potato products and value addition, potato consumption may increase, which will ultimately increase the demand for potato and benefit the farmers. Classification of processed products • Industrial products: Chips, frozen French fries, flakes, starch, custard powder, soup, potato bhujia etc. • Small scale and cottage industry products: Dehydrated chips, dices, cubes, wadi, papad, vermicilli, cakes, biscuits, naan-khatai, sticks, cuttings, Technology Technology Technology Technology Technology Bandana, Vineet Sharma, Brajesh Singh and Manoj Kumar Processing of potato for domestic and commercial use Potato is one of the traditional and most used food items in India. Potatoes are versatile for a variety of culinary uses in most Indian households and are used for many purposes throughout the year. Global consumption of potatoes is shifting from fresh potatoes to value-added and processed food products. Processing has the potential to enable potatoes to achieve industrial status. This will not only create more employment but will also improve nutrition and increase the income of potato farmers. shreds, pickles etc. • Fast food outlets and restaurant products: Aloo tikki, samosa, French fries, idli, vada, aloo masala dosa, aloo parantha etc.