 This translated to approximately 300 million people living in villages characterized by low spatial mobility, with limited access to basic economic and social services. In response to this lack of connectivity, the Central Government of India launched the Pradhan Mantri Gram Sadak Yojana, or the Prime Minister’s Rural Road Building Program, hereafter PMGSY, in Decem- ber 2000. The primary objective was to provide single, all-weather connectivity to targeted villages through the construction of paved roads equipped with cross-drainage structures that allowed them to be operable in all weathers (PMGSY, 2001).7 To be program-eligible, villages had to be unconnected, i.e. at least 500 meters away from an all-weather road or another village with an all-weather road. Roads constructed under PMGSY were typically small, single lane roads8 that belonged to one of two lowest categories of rural roads: (1) ‘‘village roads" that connected villages with each other or to the nearest road of a higher category; or (2) ‘‘other district roads" that connected villages to other main roads, the block headquarters, or the market center.9 Program roads thus linked unconnected villages to ei- ther the closest village with an all-weather road, the closest all-weather road, the market center or the block headquarters. Given the dependency on agriculture in this setting, local road networks play an important role in facilitating travel to nearby markets, villages and towns for agricultural input purchases, farm output sales, as well as transactions in the casual daily labor market. Enabling access to the closest market center – identified by the program as centers of activities for marketing agricultural inputs and outputs, as well as servicing of agricultural tools – was thus an important goal under PMGSY. 7 The unit of targeting under PMGSY is the habitation, a sub-village entity defined as a population cluster living in a location that does not change over time. A village consists of one or more habitations. The unit of analysis in this paper is the village; thus, for ease of exposition, I will use the terms habitation and village interchangeably. 8 In the PMGSY rural roads manual, the suggested carriageway width is 3.7 m, ‘‘similar to that of a single lane carriageway of ‘other district roads’’’, and the estimated road length is 4 kilometers. 9 All higher category rural roads (major district roads, state highways and national highways) were strictly excluded. Journal of Development Economics 152 (2021) 102686 4 Y. Shamdasani PMGSY was launched as a Centrally-sponsored scheme, with the central government providing full funding and state governments man- aging project implementation, which proceeded as follows. Each state generated a list of all unconnected villages within the state, with villages ranked in descending order by population size (as recorded in the 2001 Population Census).