 Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Sargassum wightii 8 Cadalmin® AOe About the product l Cadalmin® AOe is an anti-osteoporotic nutraceutical; combats osteoporosis. l Contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected red seaweed, viz., Gracilaria salicornia and brown seaweed, viz., Sargassum wightii. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® AOe increase the activity of alkaline phosphatase and bone morphogenic protein, along with higher serum oste- ocalcin levels and prominent minerali- zation, which were corroborated with increases in bone mineral density and found to be effective for bone health development. l Effectively suppresses the osteoclast activity (degradation of mineral on the bone surface), which is related to oste- oblastic cell formation in bone tissue to combat osteoporotic related disorders and improve bone health. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Sodium Alendronate®) through animal test models. l It has no cytotoxicity across all the tested concentrations from 150 to 1000 μg/mL through animal test models. l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted to ensure higher shelf-life. l Plant-based capsules are used to pack the purified and concentrated active ingredients (350 mg), thereby ensuring the dietary needs of vegetarians. Commercialization and availability l It is a patented technology of ICAR- CMFRI, Kochi; scheduled for licensing during 2020. l The product will be marketed as Antios- teoporotic Extract (AOe). 6. Cadalmin®AOe – Antiosteoporotic Nutraceutical Compiled by: Kajal Chakraborty, P. Vijayagopal and Shinoj Parappurathu Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2394798 Email: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cmfri.org.in Gracilaria salicornia Sargassum wightii 9 Cadalmin® IBe About the product l Cadalmin® IBe is a novel immunity- boosting nutraceutical; helps to improve the non-specific innate immune system. l The product contains 100% natural marine bioactive ingredients extracted from selected brown seaweeds, viz., Turbinaria conoides and Sargassum wightii. l The bioactive ingredients in Cadalmin® IBe increase innate immune response in animal models by regulating nuclear factor kappa-B along with oxidative stress markers. l Cadalmin® IBe effectively suppresses the oxidative agents causing the production of reactive oxygen species that could result in the reduced inflammatory response and benefits the immune system. l The efficacy of the product was compared with that of a standard drug (Naproxen®) through animal test models. l No side effects were recorded in the preclinical and acute/long-term chronic toxicity experiments. l Unique biochemical engineering techniques are adopted resulting in higher shelf-life.