5-6% inspite of attempts to reduce the loss by different storing methods. Some indigenous practices are being followed by the farmers which seems to be most effective in this regard.Storing of rice in earthen pits for six months improved the quality of rice and also saved from damage by store grain pests. Storing of grains in "Puduka" is safe for seeds which keeps it viable and free from store grain pests. Pigeonpea grains coated with red earth kept away the pulse beetle from damage.Greegram and blackgram grains mixed with poter’s ash, dry neem leaf, Basangh (Adhatoda Vasica) leaf and dry chilli keep the grain free from pulse beetle. Tubers like yam stored in earthern pit with sand retards its drying.Storing of onion with leave in bunches and hanged on a rope keeps it in good condition for 4 months.The problem of storing jaggery during hot summer months is solved by keeping it in a sand bedded house sprinkled with moisture periodically.Sugarcane planting materials, after harvesting, are kept for 2-3 months till the land is ready for planting by heaping the seed materials along with cane tops and covered with trash. Keeping vegetable seeds like gourds and okra as whole fruit after drying by hanging in the kitchen keep the seeds viable which might be due to low humidity in the kitchen (Orissa). Nayak et al. (2002) 27 Relative efficacy of straw bin and gunny bag to control aging process in paddy seeds Storage of crop seeds in straw bin (Olia) is an indegenous method, which has been adopted by the farmers of Orissa for long years. The farmers usually store cereals, pulses and millet seeds in especially designed straw bins. Freshly harvested seeds of paddy (var. Lalat) were stored in gunny bag and straw bin under ambient condition for 10 months. The initial values for seed moisture content germination, vigour index, field emergence, conductivity of seed leachate, insect infestation and dehydrogenase activity were 8.98%, 93 %, 1350, 91%, 0.36% mmhos/cm, 0% and 0.038 OD/g dry weight of seed, respectively. The recorded initial average temperature of stored seeds in both the containers was 27.20 degree centigrade. After 4 months of storage, seed moisture content tended to increase in gunny bag due to rise in atmospheric RH caused by onset of monsoon but less so in straw bin.Seed moisture content approached Sahoo et al. (2002) 145 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference maximum values after 6 months and 8 months of storage in gunny bag (11.44%) and straw bin (10.32%), respectively. Fluctuation in temperature was more in gunny bag than in straw bin.Seeds stored in straw bin maintained germinability above MSCS (80%) for 8 months, while in gunny bag the germination value fell below MSCS after 5 months of storage.The seed ageing process was slower in straw bin as compared to gunny bag.