 He discussed global climate changes and Indian Agriculture, Impact, Adaptation and mitigation by covering the various heads like observed trends in climate (IPCC, 2007); Future projections and climate Change (IPCC, 2007), Projected Impact on Indian Agriculture and finally concluded by providing various recommendations for the mitigation of global climate change, he also presented the recommendations of ICAR Conference (2007). The presentation evoked lot of interest that led to discussions on climate change. Following points emerged for adoption and action: The network project on the subject established by the ICAR with the involvement of research institutes and SAUs for critical research on crops, livestock, and fisheries will appropriately be expanded. Action: All VCs / DDG (NRM) National Agricultural Innovations Project (NAIP) of ICAR has identified climate change as a thrust area and funds are especially available for climate change related research and development projects. The AUs may effectively avail the provisions made for accelerating research efforts in this area. Action: All VCs/ ND (NAIP) Group Meeting for carbon trading may be organized. Training courses would be organized for capacity building in climate change and related areas. Action: DDG (NRM) A multi-disciplinary expert group in ICAR would be constituted for developing short-term programmes for XI Plan and a road map for medium- and long-term programmes. Action: DDG (NRM) Agenda: 4 Bio-resources including registration of germplasm and extant and notified varieties The Deputy Director General (Crop Science), Dr. Gautam, presented the agenda. He highlighted various issues and management options in respect of genetic resources for food and agriculture (GRFA) including the current practices at the ICAR Bureaus on Plant, Animal, Fish and Microbial Genetic Resources in harmony with the international agreements / conventions / treaties such as World Trade Organization - Trade Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (WTO-TRIPs), Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), International Treaty on Plant Genetic Resources for Food and Agriculture( ITPGRFA) etc. Following recommendations were made: Registration and Protection of Plant Varieties under the Protection of Plant Varieties and Framers’ Rights (PPV&FR) Act, 2001: Presently all applications for extant and new varieties of ICAR are being filed at the PPV&FR Registry through NBPGR. The procedures have been standardized. All Vice-Chancellors of SAUs unanimously conveyed their conscious decision, requesting ICAR to allow filing of applications of extant and new varieties of notified crops also through NBPGR. This request was agreed. The SAUs should prepare and file their applications through 7 NBPGR, strictly according to the PPVFR Act / Rules. The NBPGR may also provide any need based guidance / instructions on request from SAUs.