  VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Code : 1287 Title of the ITK : Control of diarrhoea in cattle and buffalo by a paste made from leaves of shisham (Dalbergia sissoo) Description of the ITK : Dulbergia sissoo leaves might be having anti-diarrhoea medicinal value. This ITK is highly compatible with the existing resources. About 500 g of shisham leaves are ground into paste and are mixed with 1 litre water and drenched 2-3 times a day per adult cow or buffalo. It costs Rs 1-2 per animal. The animal is cured in 2-3 days. This is in vougue in many villages of Shahjhanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly districts of Uttar Pradesh. Name and address of the discloser : Shri. Syed Musawir Ali, Mohalla - Furshoori Tola, Bund Gali, Baduan, Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh) Location of use of the ITK : Villages in the district of Shahjhanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly (Uttar Pradesh). Experimenters : Dr. D. Swarup; Head, Dr. N. N. Pandey, Principal Scientist and Dr. D. B. Mondal, Scientist, Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) 243 122 Methodology Location Field study was conducted in Shahjahanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly districts in Uttar Pradesh. Experimental work was done in the Division of Medicine and LPR (C&B), Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izatnagar (Uttar Pradesh) PRA and field study Participatory Rural Appraisal (PRA) tools were used in number of villages of Shahjhanpur, Bulandshar and Bareilly districts in Uttar Pradesh. A total of 20 key informants were discussed to collect information on a 10 score ranking by PRA matrix method. Experiment Toxicity trial study The trial was conducted at the Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute (IVRI). Green leaves of shisham were collected from trees and were dried under shed. The dried leaves were powdered with the help of an electric grinder and stored under plastic containers for use. In order to study any toxic effect by the use of shisham leaf paste, the leaf powder was given orally to 5 healthy goats @ 105 g/ 100 kg body weight daily for 7 days. A group of 5 healthy goats, which did not receive the leaves, served as control. Blood samples were collected on 0, 3, 5 and 7 days after feeding shisham leaves for biochemical estimations. The animals were observed daily for recession of clinical signs. Therapeutic trail study The study was undertaken as per the following experimental design, detailed in Table 1. Results and discussion PRA and field study Results of PRA and field study revealed that shisham leaf treatment had 70% cure rate, as compared to 90% each for allopathic treatment    VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY Table 2.