 Attitude: Perceived usefulness: 30% of the farmers perceive that SAPs increase the crop yield and 49% perceive that following SAPs give them more return i.e., increase their income. 77% of the farmers believe that the adoption of SAPs helps in the conservation of water, environment, and natural resources and enhances soil fertility (Fig. 3b). Perceived easiness: 99% of the farmers have an idea about the process of following sustainable agriculture practices and 44% of them believe that they can learn, understand and adopt SAPs quite well on their farms (Fig. 3b). It indicates that the majority of the farmers perceive that they can easily follow SAPs in their ﬁelds. Perceived compatibility: 29% of the farmers perceive that following SAPs is part of their culture and tradition, only 3% recognize that SAPs align with their current farming practices and around 47% perceive that they have a fair about which agriculture practices can be called as sustainable (Fig. 3b). Perceived control: 78% of the farmers perceive that they have re- sources i.e., money, labour, and time to adopt SAPs on their ﬁelds and 79% believe that they possess enough knowledge to practice sustainable agriculture (Fig. 3c). Normative factors: 14% of the farmers responded that their friends are using SAPs for a long time, while 45% are willing to choose SAPs because they want to be like other farmers in their community, who have already adopted SAPs. 55% of the farmers have followed SAPs after getting to know its beneﬁts via TV, media, and news channels. 55% of the farmers have access to news media via mobile phone, TV, radio and newspaper. Approximately 23% of the farmers lack even access to basic primary education and 31% of the farmers have just studied up to class 8. Thereby, farmers acquire information about SAPs via watching and reading news in their regional language (Marathi) rather than Hindi and English. Only 5% of the respondents perceive that they have learned about SAPs from online/ofﬂine training and workshops (Fig. 3c). It in- dicates less inﬂuence of workshops and seminars and higher inﬂuence of news channels and media houses in farmers’ decision-making for SAPs. Institutional factors: 59% of the farmers have attended workshops and training programs organized by the government and other organi- zations regarding SAPs (Fig. 3 d). However, only 5% of respondents indicated that they acquired knowledge about SAPs through these workshops (Fig. 3c), suggesting a signiﬁcant communication gap be- tween farmers and workshop trainers. The mode of communication, such as the use of Hindi language, and the type of training, primarily theo- retical without practical demonstrations of SAPs in the ﬁeld, were identiﬁed as major barriers hindering the implementation and adoption of SAPs on the ground. Only 9% have utilized money from KCC for SAPs and only 10% have received subsidies on seeds, fertilizers, and water for adopting SAPs. 47% of the farmers have availed of soft loans i.