 This requires more than proportional rise in the private investment and judicious use of the investment resources. For this, appropriate policy intervention may be made after careful monitoring of (i) institutional arrangements with which capital and other inputs are managed, and (ii) incentive framework for the agricultural sector. AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS AND COMPUTER AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS AND COMPUTER AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS AND COMPUTER AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS AND COMPUTER AGRICULTURAL STATISTICS AND COMPUTER APPLICATIONS APPLICATIONS APPLICATIONS APPLICATIONS APPLICATIONS A pilot survey on Crop Yield Estimation at Blocks Level Using Farmers’ Estimates in Karnal, Haryana, during 1998–99 in rabi season, on wheat crop to develop suitable block level estimates of yield using crop cut estimates and farmers’ estimates was conducted. The sampling design of General Crop Estimation surveys (GCES) was followed. Accordingly, the crop cut data collected under GCES was utilized for the purpose. To develop block level estimates of average yield two different estimates were developed i.e. one based on simple average while the other was double sampling regression estimator utilizing the eye-estimated yields of the field as an auxiliary information. Nearly 20% reduction in the standard error of the estimate was observed in the double sampling regression estimator over an estimator based on simple mean values. The optimum values of sample size were obtained at various stages of sampling by fixing the standard error at 5% and minimizing the total cost. Overall 45% reduction in the total cost of the survey was obtained based on the optimum values of sample sizes in cases where there was high correlation between the farmers’ estimate and the estimates obtained through crop cutting approach by adopting the double sample regression estimator. Also, cheaper the cost of obtaining the farmers’ estimate compared to the crop cut estimates, the greater the percentage reduction in cost obtained by adopting the double sampling regression estimator over an estimator based on simple mean values. Universally optimal block designs for both the direct effects of treatments applied to rabi crop and residual effect of the treatments applied to kharif crop were obtained for the experimental situations where the experimenter was not interested in the Estimates of incremental output ratio in agriculture by states (1992–97) l Method developed for estimation of crop yield at block level. l Potato and ginger crop area and yield estimated in north-eastern states. l Fodder tree sp., location of tree in plot, direction of crop around tree and distance of crop from tree affected yield of crop. l Methodology developed for forecasting fish production from ponds. l Agricultural Research Databook–2002 released.