 Horticulture for Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security 16 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR the saying, food is life” (Gandhi, 1948). His preference was vegetarian food. Gandhi’s diet mainly comprised of salads,curd, fresh fruits, unpolished rice, millets, pulses, jaggery and dry fruits. (Fig. 2). 3. Contributions of ICAR in Rural Livelihood and Nutritional Security To realize the dreams of the Mahatma in rural development and nutritional security, the horticultural institutes of ICAR have taken proactive measures to ensure food, nutrition and livelihood security in the nation and have contributed significantly to enhancing the availability of nutritious food and providing employment opportunities to the rural population. These institutes train farmers in sustainable farming, enhancing profitability, water resource management and farming techniques. One of the major thrusts of ICAR is to increase the availability, affordability and consumption of nutrients-rich fruits, vegetables, and spices to reverse malnutrition. This will aid in seamlessly blending the rich Indian culture and applying science-based methodologies for keeping the rural population fit and healthy. 3.1. Linking Biodiversity to Livelihood Security 3.1.1. Empowering the custodian farmer who preserved jack fruit with coppery red flakes Jackfruit (Artocarpus heterophyllus Lam) is native to India. The trees grow wildly in the Western Ghat regions of India up to an elevation of 2,400 MSL. Further, these trees are also grown as homestead or as a mixed crop in the states of Kerala, Karnataka, Tamil Nadu, Bihar, West Bengal, Uttar Pradesh, Assam and Orissa. It is a multi-purpose crop used for food, traditional medicine, timber, fuel and as fodder. The primary economic product is the tender fruit that is used as vegetable and the ripe fruit for table purpose. In addition, several value-added products from both immature fruits as well as seeds are being prepared throughout the country. It is a cross-pollinated crop and propagated through seeds. The natural populations are highly heterogeneous in nature. Considerable variation is observed in the form of fruit shape, size, density of tubercles and other fruit characters like colour of rind and flakes, thickness, fiber content, fruit quality and maturity. Because of this diversity, it is possible to select promising strains satisfying different purposes. Already, several locally adopted genotypes of jackfruit are available in India, which originated through clonal selection by the farmers. ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticulture Research, undertook a survey to identify superior Jackfruit genotypes during the period 2016-2020 in the traditional Jackfruit growing tracts of Southern Karnataka. These regions are generally dominated by seedling progenies and offer considerable variability for tree morphology and fruit quality parameters. During the survey, 125 plus trees were Fig. 2.