 yy Lateral flow assays (LFAs) for Canine Distemper (CD): Lateral flow assays (LFAs) for detection of CD virus antigen and antibody were developed using the in-house developed monoclonal antibody (mAb) against the nucleoprotein (N) of CDV (Dog)/Bly/Ind/2018 isolate. The assay developed for viral antigen was able to detect a virus sample of 106.5 TCID/ml titre. The same strip was assessed for its potential of antibody detection in competitive mode. The detection limit for antibody detection by the LFA was 1:32. The diagnostic sensitivity (Dsn) and specificity (Dsp) for antigen detection were 66.6% and 100%, respectively. For antibody detection, Dsn and Dsp were 80.4% and 94.4%, respectively. Vaccines Ancovax: An inactivated vaccine to prevent SARS- CoV2 infection in animals was developed. Homologous live-attenuated vaccine, Lumpi- ProVacInd against LSD: A homologous live-attenuated LSD vaccine, named Lumpi-ProVacInd was developed. ABrC-ELISA (PPR Ab Check kit and PPR Ag Chek kit) Kit Livestock Management icar annual report 2022-23 113 The virus used for developing the vaccine was isolated from skin scab collected from a naturally LSDV-infected cattle in 2019 (Kenyan type LSDV strain). The vaccine has been found to be safe in cattle and buffaloes of all age groups including lactating/ pregnant animals and bulls. Further, LSDV/India/2022 is completely neutralized by sera derived from LSDV/India/2019 and vice versa, and therefore, Lumpi-ProVacInd can be used to replace the existing goatpox vaccination practice against LSD in cattle in India. The vaccine technology has been commercialized. Inactivated low pathogenic avian influenza (H9N2) vaccine for chickens: The inactivated low pathogenic avian influenza (H9N2) vaccine for chickens was developed for the prevention and control of H9N2 avian influenza virus infection in chickens. The candidate vaccine strain [A/chicken/India/22213/2006 (H9N2)] was selected on the basis of phylogenetic and antigenic analysis of H9N2 viruses isolated from India during 2003 to 2017. The safety, potency and efficacy of the vaccine were ascertained. It provides protective immunity in chickens for six months following vaccination and covers all the antigenically divergent strains of H9N2 low pathogenic avian influenza virus currently circulating in India. This is the first indigenously developed low pathogenic avian influenza (H9N2) vaccine in India and the vaccine will help in prevention and control of the infections with H9N2 virus in chickens, specifically in layer and breeder chickens thereby reducing production losses and improving the livelihood of poultry farmers/ industry. Thermostable serotype O vaccine for FMD: Foot-and-mouth disease (FMD) vaccine virus serotype O, that was generated through introduction of mutation (Y2098F) in the genome, showed increased thermostability.