 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 159 FRUITS Aonla India ranks first in the world in area and production. Aonla being a sub-tropical crop prefers dry sub-tropical climate. Heavy frost is not suitable for its cultivation. Slightly acidic to saline/sodic soil having pH between 6.5 to 9.5 is suitable for cultivation. Improved Varieties: Kanchan (NA 4), Krishna (NA 5), NA 6, NA 7 and NA 10. Land is prepared by ploughing, harrowing, levelling, and removing weeds. Aonla propagated by budding or softwood grafting in July- August. Grafted or budded plants are planted 4-5 meter apart under square system of layout during July-August or February. Pits of 1-1.25 m. size are dug two months prior to planting. In each pit 3-4 baskets of FYM and 1 kg. neem cake or 500 g. bonemeal should be mixed with soil and filled in the pits. In sodic soil, 5-8 kg. Gypsum along with 20 kg. sand is filled in the pit irrigation is provided immediately after this. 10 kg. Farmyard manure, 100g. N, 50g. P and 100g. K should be given to one-year-old plants. This dose increased on yearly basis upto ten years. Irrigation is provided at an interval of 15-20 days in dry summer. No irrigation is required rainy and winter season. First irrigation is provided just after manure & fertilizer application (January/ February) Irrigation is not provided during the flowering period i.e., mid-March and April. The plants are trained to modified central leader system. Two to four branches with wide crotch angle, appearing in the opposite directions should be encouraged in early years. The unwanted branches are pinched off during March-April. In the subsequent years, 4-6 branches should be allowed to develop. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 160 Inter-cropping with vegetables, flowers and a few medicinal/ aromatic plants are well suited for intercropping, cost of inter cropping would be Rs. 10,000/- per acre. Paddy straw, sugarcane trash and farmyard manure can be used for mulching. Necrosis, a physiological disorder has been observed mostly in case of Banarasi and Francis varieties. A budded/grafted tree starts bearing third year onwards after planting, whereas a seeded plant may take 6-8 year. The fruits are harvested manually and sorted according to their size. Fruits can be stored for a period of 6-9 days under ordinary conditions. Aonla tree may bear 1-3 q fruit /tree, giving 15-20 tones yield /ha. Papaya Papaya being a tropical fruit grows well in the mild sub-tropical regions. Night temperature below 12-14 degree C for several hours during winter season affects its growth and production severely. Well drained sandy loam soil is ideal for cultivation of papaya. Varieties are Honey Dew, Coorg Honey Dew, Washington, Pusa Delicious and Pusa Nanha. Commercially propagated by seed and tissue culture plants. The seed rate is 250-300 g/ha. The seeds after being treated with 0.1% Monosan (phenyl mercuric acetate), ceresan etc.