 (h) In exceptional cases, the Director-General may empower in writing a Director of Laboratory/Institute to exercise, in addition to all the powers exercisable by him in respect of the concerned Institute, all such powers in respect of any other Institute/ Laboratory. In cases where powers are to be exercised by the Directors in consultation with the Management Committee, no such powers shall be exercised without such consultation. (i) The Director-General, the Secretary and the Directors of the Institutes/Laboratories may delegate the powers exercisable by them to such Officers as they may deem fit. ()) The Deputy Directors-General and other Of- ficers in and under the Council shall exercise such powers as have been delegated or which may be delegated to them under the Rules and Bye-laws of the Council. Powers to sanction 10. Expenditure in excess of the net appropriation for excess expenditure the year shall require the sanction of the Governing Body. Powers to write-off losses 11. (a) The power to write-off looses in respect of the funds of the Society shall be exercised by the Director-General to the extent it is being exercised by a Ministry/Department of the Government of India. A list of cases involving a write-off of Rs 5000/- or above in each case in the previous year ending 31st December shall be placed before the Governing Body at its meeting convened for the purpose of passing the budget estimates of the Society. (b) The Director-General may subject to such conditions and monetary limits as he may consider necessary to impose, delegate the powers mentioned in (a) of this bye-law to the Secretary/Deputy Directors-General/other Officers of and under the Council and the 40 grantee Institutions. A list of all such cases for each year ending 31st December shall be submitted annually to the Director-General by the 31st January of the next year for his information. Contracts 12. (a) The form of all contracts to be executed by any Authority of the Indian council of Agricultural Research, as defined in Rule 13 of the Rules of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society in force from 3rd April, 1975, or by any other Authority delegated with powers to execute contracts, deeds and other instruments on behalf of the Society and Members of the Governing Body, shall be drawn up under legal advice. The Secretary may delegate his power to execute all contracts, deeds and other in- struments on behalf of the Society or the Governing Body subject to such restrictions as he may think fit to impose to any Officer of the Society or to any other Body, Institu- tion or Organization under the administrative control of the Society.