 Sher-EKashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2340 Mixed cropping in kharif Different crop mixtures are sown by people of hilly area of Himachal Pradesh with several advantages like food diversification, maximum utilization of soil nutrients, crop productivity enhancement and prevention of insect attacks. Leguminous and non-leguminous crops may grow well when sown in mixture. A combination of shallow and deep rooted crops also show good performance. Ladies finger (Hibiscus esculentus), cucumber (Cucumis sativus) and gourds are grown as mixture with maize as kharif crops. Maize is also sown with sunflower (Helianthus annus), karela (Mimordica charantia), kangeri (Cucunbita spp) and ghiya (Luffa acutangula) as mixed crops. Keywords: mixed cropping, kharif , maize, cucumber, gourds, ladies finger, sunflower People of Himachal Pradesh at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio-Sciences Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2360 Mixed cropping in rabi In rabi, wheat (Triticum vulgare), sarson (Brassica campestris), gram (Cicer arietinum), loki (Luffa cyllindrica) and pea (Pisum sativum) are sown in the same area as mixed crops. This is beneficial to practice on small farm unit for the cultivators to obtain food diversification and useful to maintain soil fertility by sowing the leguminous crops with non -leguminous crops. It is practiced in whole of the hilly area of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: mixed cropping, rabi , wheat, sarson, gram, loki, pea People of Himachal at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio-Sciences Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2333 Intercropping of wheat and maize along with mustard and sesame Intercropping is a very useful and important method to enhance the crop yield and overcome the problem of insect-pest attack. This practice is used by the farmers of Baldhar village of Kangra district in Himachal Pradesh. By intercropping more than one crop is grown in the same field and farmers get both cereals as well as oilseeds or Shri Rajeev Kumar Room no 32 D, NBH II Hostel Himachal Pradesh University, Summer hill, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005  pulses. Mustard (Brassica campestris) is taken along with wheat, and sesame (Sesamum inidcum) with maize (Zea mays) as intercrops. In this practice, first ploughing is done in fallow field to remove the previous crop residue and to conserve the moisture of the field. When field receive sufficient rain, the second ploughing is done and wheat is sown. Mustard seeds are broadcast in wheat field, as it protects the wheat crop from insect pest attack. Similarly sesame is sown along with maize. By this practice farmers get two crops in the same field and in the same season.