 The ICAR promotes research, education and extension education in 73 Agricultural Universities such as 62 State Agricultural Universities, 4 Deemed Universities, 3 Central Agricultural Universities, and 4 Central Universities with agricultural faculty by giving financial assistance in different forms (Appendix 9). DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 136 112 ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 137 ADMINISTRATION Filling up of vacant posts During 2016-17, the following posts were filled up under the promotion quota: two Directors, one Director (OL), three Under Secretaries, two Section Officers, three Assistants, thirty-six UDCs, two Senior Administrative Officers, nine Administrative Officers, two CFAO/Deputy Director (Finance), two Sr. Finance & Accounts Officers, two Finance & Accounts Officers, two Principal Private Secretaries. Besides twenty-four Administrative Officers, eight Finance & Account Officers, and eight Assistant Director (OL) were also appointed on direct recruitment basis. Financial upgradation granted under MACP Scheme: During 2016-17, (12) eligible officers and staff of ICAR (Headquarters) and Institutes were granted the benefits of financial upgradation under the Modified Assured Career Progression Scheme in accordance with the Government of India (Department of Personnel and Trainings) instruction in this regard. E-governance in ICAR E-governance can be defined as use of information and communication, quality of information and services provided in a cost effective manner. It is relevant for transparency, people’s participation, and promotion of democratic society, managing voluminous data and information effectively, simplicity, efficiency and accountability in the Government of India. In the ICAR (Hq), the newly created e-Governance Division has been implementing and monitoring the following activities: In ICAR, the following activities taken up under e- Governance are: E Office: A module of NIC for File Tracking, PUC monitoring, and KMS. The ICAR (Hq) is on the way to implement complete e-Office filing system. Vigilance Online Integrated Complaints and Enquiry (VOICE): An application exclusively for Vigilance section. It is meant for monitoring vigilance cases. It is functional at the ICAR (Hq). Court Case Monitoring System (CCMS): It is a web- based application for monitoring i.e. starting with the entry of a new court case to recording down all proceedings and maintaining the history of each and every case. E-procurement: The E-procurement System enables the tender bearers to download the Tender Schedule free of cost and then submit the bids online through this portal. This Division has been monitoring and coordinating with all the Units of ICAR for implementing on-line e-procurement. Online RTI : This is a portal to file RTI applications/first appeals online along with payment gateway.