 Adoption of drudgery prone implements viz improved sickle, small threshers, tillers and other garden tools indirectly improve the production resulting in income of small farmers. ii. Promotion of well decomposed FYM, Vermicompost and Biofertilizers to minimize the use of chemical fertilizers. iii. Promotion of line sowing and judicious use of fertilizer application in crops. iv. Promotion of recommended seed rate, spacing and depth. v. Promotion of organic farming; mulching (bio or degradable plastic) to maintain moisture and reduce intercultural operation cost. Strategy 8: Off-farm income i. Promotion of subsidiary occupations like rearing of goat, yak, sheep, poultry. ii. Promotion of cultivation and collection of medicinal plants. iii. Promotion of skill development in women and youth iv. Promotion of value added product making in dried apricot and sea buckthorn juice Strategy 9: Online Management and Evaluation i. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. ii. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. iii. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. iv. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and use of Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Summary recommendations: Š Š State could shift its agricultural development strategy from food security mode to the value addition mode. The state should grow certain products like high-valued fruits, vegetables and some cash crops, which could give adequate monetary returns to the State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 231 cultivators. Low productivity and decreasing returns from agriculture are the main reasons for low motivation among cultivators. Š Š For optimum utilization of the productive potential of the primary sector, diversification should be the main focus. However, the state should not follow a uniform policy of diversification for all the physiographic regions of the state. Agro-climatic crop planning for each physiographic region should be evolved with the help of experts. This calls for in-depth studies to: Š Š Make a realistic assessment of the available resources. Š Š Explore cost-effective means of transfer of technologies. Š Š Work out forward and backward linkages. Š Š Availability of inputs, e.g., seeds, fertilizers, pesticides, credit, etc., should not only be ensured regularly but their quality extensively checked. There are already some provisions existing in the state but more needs to be done. Š Š The state government should encourage a mix of supplementing crops in each region. For instance, in the Valley floor and plain areas of Jammu region, the crops which do not either compete with each other or can be grown off season should be the basis of diversification.