 He raised seedlings of different vegetables and papaya under mini-shade net (60 sq m) and produced high quality virus-free papaya seedlings (2,500) and vegetables seedlings, viz. Tomato (5,000), Brinjal (5,000), Chilli (5,000) during May 2021 to October 2021, with which, he received a net income of ` 25,700. Farmers from the neighbouring villages got attracted with the benefits gained by protected shade-net nursery production; and accordingly, approached KVK, Vizianagaram for further guidance to adopt the technology. A view of nursery unit of Shri M. Sankara Rao with mini-shade net Profitable Nursery through “Mini-Shade Net” Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 March–April 2023 39 Protected cultivation of vegetables crops for sustainable food production Due to ever-increasing population, massive urbanization and rapid industrialization, it is becoming challenging to feed the millions in our country. Though, population is increasing at a faster pace; agricultural land capacity can increase by 2% only. As per an estimate, 342 million tonnes of vegetables will be required to cater the demand of consumers by the year 2050. Therefore, to improve the productivity and cropping intensity, protected cultivation of vegetables seems a promising proposition. Protected cultivation is taken up in special structures known as greenhouses. Depending on the covering material, different terminologies have been used in the context of greenhouse structures for instances, glasshouse, polyhouse, shade house, net house, etc. Technology Hare Krishna*, S N S Chaurasia, Anant Bahadur, S K Singh, Swati Sharma, Rajeev Kumar, Shubhdeep Roy and Manoj Kumar Singh T his technology has vast scope, particularly, in peri-urban areas near the major cities, which are rapidly growing markets for fresh vegetables. High value vegetable crops like, tomato, cherry tomato, coloured capsicum, parthenocarpic cucumber, brinjal, etc. and virus free seedlings in agri-entrepreneurial models can be grown profitably with the use of such technologies. The productivity obtained under protected cultivation is three to ten times higher than open methods of cultivation depending on the crops. These technologies offer numerous advantages such as save water, increase crop production, are environment-friendly, give round the year food production, and provide jobs for residents. However, protected cultivation requires thorough planning, utmost consideration and details about timing of production (keeping in view the demand and prevailing market prices), choice of varieties adapted to the off-season environments, consumer preferences, etc. in order to be able to produce high yields of quality produce. It was estimated that about 2.15 lakh hectare of land was brought under the National Horticulture Mission between 2005–06 and 2017–18. The major states adopting the protected cultivation technologies are Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Andhra Pradesh, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Maharashtra.