 Complete regression results with all control variables are shown in the Appendix. A.H. Villacis et al. Economic Analysis and Policy 81 (2024) 1308–1321 1319 improvements would increase farmers’ revenue from producing high-value export crops. Access to public transportation has het­ erogeneous types of associations, depending on the kind of market channel, but there is no relation regarding the engagement with APMC mandis. Finally, females are generally less likely to sell in the APMC mandi than to pre-harvest contractors or private traders. Gender imbalances and male dominance in these places could cause this. However, this finding requires more future research, as only 2 percent of the farmers in our sample are female. Robustness checks that conduct the estimations of Eq. (3) separately by type of crop – high-value local (baby corn, okra, and onion) and high-value export crops (pomegranate) – are provided in Tables A3 and A4 of the Appendix. Most signs and coefficients of the policy-relevant variables remain the same in the disaggregated regressions, although the reduced number of observations reduces the statistical significance of the measured effects. The fraction of the variation of the dependent variable that the disaggregated re­ gressions explain increases for the high-value vegetables and decreases for the high-value fruit (the resulting R2 are all still within acceptable boundaries). Therefore, this signals that the politically relevant correlations regarding marketing channel choice are similar across the two categories of crops. 6. Conclusions This study addresses the general question of the effectiveness of government intervention in marketing channels in contexts of market failures. Government intervention can represent – at best – the second-best solution because the first-best solution would be to eradicate the market failures in the first place. Those improvements would include, most importantly, the improvement of institutions, namely through better enforceability of contracts by reducing corruption both in the judicative (judges and public prosecutors) and the executive (police system) and by a more effective judicial system in terms of access for low-income individuals and in terms of the duration of court procedures. However, in developing and emerging economies, those first-best solutions may not be feasible, moti­ vating governments to soften the detrimental outcomes of the existing institutional environment for farmers, for example, through government-supported marketing channels. The effectiveness of such interventions requires critical evaluation. Against this back­ ground, the current study assesses one instance of a government-supported marketing channel. The results indicate that the destination market critically determines the success of such channels. Although such government-supported marketing channels benefit farmers of goods destined for local markets, high-value export crops do not benefit.