 The side limb is tied to the post which will result in a zigzag shape. There are 4 or 5 permanent limbs in the lower part of the tree and young temporary limbs in the top half of the tree. Use of support system As the rooting system of M 9 rootstock is brittle and shallow and need support system to maintain the sturdiness of plant, inadequate support system cannot support the weight of the tree and the fruit especially if we get heavy winds and snow storms then the entire system will collapse. Depending upon the training system, different support system can be used. We can use 8 to 10 foot long angle iron, and bamboo pole. The objective is to support the tree and the fruit load within the second or third year. Many times a multiple wires system having wires at 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 feet interval are tied especially for M 9 rootstock. Irrigation and fertilizer application Another key criterion with high-density systems is an efficient irrigation system where we can use micro sprinklers and drip irrigation system. Fertigation can also be done where soluble fertilizer are being added to the irrigation water and are applied straight-away with irrigation water. Water soluble fertilizer like urea, MOP or 19:19:19 (contains 19% Nitrogen, 19% Phosphorus and 19% Potassium) can be applied with irrigation water as fertigation. Non water soluble fertilizer like single superphosphate should be applied as basal dose. Deficiency of micronutrients like B, Zn, Mn and Cu should be corrected through foliar application of boric acid (0.1%), zinc sulphate (0.5%), manganese sulphate (0.3%), and copper sulphate (0.3%) respectively. One important care need to be taken that manganese sulphate and copper sulphate should be applied by mixing with lime (0.5%). Special pruning techniques Special pruning techniques such as pinching, notching, clicking and bending need to be done to maintain the balance between the vegetative and reproductive growth and to have more branches at desired place. The use of plant growth regulator like 6-BA (6-benzyladenine) is very effective in stimulating buds to break. Promalin is also applied to buds where lateral shoot growth is desired. All of these methods can provide a better alternative than using a heading cut for inducing branching on the leader. Minimal pruning at planting: For HDP system of planting very little growth is needed to fill the available space. Pruning is limited to only the removal of a few larger branches along the leader. Generally, those branches which are more the ½-2/3rd the diameter of the leader at the insertion point are removed. Pruning in subsequent years is limited to complete limb renewal by removing all dominant limbs. Bending of branch: Bending is done in tall spindle system of training to reduce the vigour of a branch. Branch weights, rubber bands, or tying can be done for bending.