 After 6-7 weeks, polythene sheet cover is to be removed and prepare the beds for kharif onion crop nursery. For raising nursery, raised bed of about 2-3 m length, 1-1.5 m width and 15-20 cm height to be prepared. Apply 8-10 kg well decomposed farmyard manure (FYM) and 150 g 19:19:19 (NPK fertilizer) and copper oxychloride at 50 g per bed at the time of bed preparation and mix well with soil or apply well decomposed farmyard manure (FYM) @ 1 kg, 0.5 g nitrogen, 5 g phosphorus and 5 g potassium per m2 area as basal dose and rest 0.5 g nitrogen per m2 area is to be top dressed at 20 days after sowing. Trichoderma harzianum (30 g) is to be applied into the bed through well decomposed organic manures or application of Trichoderma @ 1.25 kg/ha is also recommended to manage damping off and raise healthy seedlings. Raised bed is recommended for nursery because as in case of the flat bed, water moves from one end to the other and there is a possibility of washing away of seeds as well as water logging in heavy soils. In sandy soils, however, sowing can be taken up in flat beds. For transplanting one hectare area, about 8-10 kg seed is required for nursery raising. If the nursery is raised using drip or sprinkler irrigation system, the seed rate of about 5-7 kg/ha is sufficient. Before sowing, the seeds are to be treated with captan or carbendazim @ 2-3 g/kg of seed. Treated and packed seeds do not require treatment again. The seed should be sown into line with spacing of about 5 to 7.5 cm in the lines at depth of 1-1.5 cm. The seeds after sowing to be covered with fine powdered farmyard manure or compost followed by light watering. Then the beds should be covered with dry straw to maintain optimum temperature and moisture. Watering should be done by a water can as per the need till germination is completed in small areas. In case of bigger areas it can be irrigated through flood if drip or sprinkler is not available, by filling the water in canals on both sides of the nursery raised beds. Nursery of onion can also be successfully raised on drip or sprinkler irrigation on raised beds. Dry straw or grass to be removed immediately after germination is completed in about Baswant 780 Phule Samarth Bhima Dark Red Onion seedling ready for transplanting Indian Horticulture 18 6 to 8 days after sowing. Delay in removal of dry straw and grass may result in lanky growth and yellowing of seedlings. Two hand weeding found effectively controlling the weed population in onion nursery during kharif season. In case of weedicide, it is advised to spray only pendimethalin @ 2 ml/l of water before onion seed germination followed by hand weeding at 20-25 days after sowing. The nursery should be protected by green shed net (above 2 m height) during hot summer and rainy season. Onion seedling in nursery can be attacked by different insect pests and diseases. So some control measures are to be taken for getting healthy, pest and diseases free seedlings.