 Photo acceleration and embryonic growth. Factors influencing hatchability and production of quality chicks. Analyzing hatchability problems. Hatchery hygiene. Fumigation procedure. Prevention of hatchery borne diseases. Utilization and disposal of hatchery waste. Prerequisite of good hatchery. Lay out of a modern hatchery. Equipments required in a modern hatchery. Single and multi-stage incubators. Hatchery business. Sexing, handling, packaging and transportation of chicks. Principles and methods of brooding. Space required for brooding, rearing, feeding and watering. Preparation of brooder house to receive young chicks. Forced feeding of turkey poults. Brooding of quails, ducklings and turkey poults. Managements during growing period. Overcrowding, culling. Management of replacement pullets for egg production and breeding stocks. Management of layers and breeders. Light management. Debeaking, dubbing and other farm routines. Littre management. Broodiness and forced moulting in layers. Management of turkey, ducks, quails and Guinea fowl. Summer and winter management. Farm location and site selection. Ideal layout of poultry houses for different systems of rearing. Design of poultry houses like brooder, grower, broiler, layer and cage house, poultry processing unit, feed mill, etc. Environmentally controlled and open poultry houses. Types of construction materials used. Cross-ventilation and ridge ventilation. Effect of pollution on production performance of birds. Ammonia control in poultry houses. Type of brooders, feeders, waters, laying nests, cages, etc. Automation in poultry production. Unit 6: Economics and Marketing Economic principles as applied to poultry production. Production functions. Farm size-resources and product combinations, efficiency criteria in use of resources in poultry production. Cost concept. Maintenance and evaluation of different production records. Insurance and financing of poultry enterprises. Project formulation for setting up of poultry farms and hatcheries. Production and requirement of poultry products in India and for exports. Various marketing channels. Transportation of eggs and chicken. Marketing approaches. Horizontal and vertical integration in poultry industry and their importance. Price spread in marketing of poultry and poultry products. Role of cooperatives in poultry farming. Unit 7: Poultry Health Management Common diseases of poultry – bacterial, viral, fungal, protozoan, parasitic and other emerging diseases of poultry, their prevention, control and treatment. Metabolic and nutrient deficiency diseases and disorders. Vaccination programmes. Deworming programmes. Control of coccidiosis, worms, ectoparasites and flies. Medication procedures. Cleaning and disinfection of poultry houses. Drinking water sanitation. General farm sanitation and hygiene. Safe disposal of dead birds and farm waste. Stress control. Heat stroke. Cold shock. Vices of poultry and their control.