 • Conducting research in the field of Nano science and technology for textile and agriculture applications and it has established World’s third and first Nano Cellulose Pilot Plant in the country during the year 2015. • Undertaken skill development and capacity building programmes on Ginning and Cotton quality assessment, nanotechnology and various aspects of cotton and by-product processing technologies. During 2014-2022, 190 Trainings were conducted for 3736 participants including farmers, ginners and other stakeholders. • The ABI and RKVY-R-ABI centres at Institute incubated 16 entrepreneurs during 2014- 2022, and 6 graduated under ABI. Currently 73 start-ups are being incubated under R-ABI and the grant of Rs. 497 lakhs has been sanctioned to 41 start-ups under pre-seed and seed stage funding. • ICAR-CIRCOT has generated a revenue of Rs. 1376 Lakhs during 2014-2022 by offering consultancies, contract research, trainings and commercial testing services to the stakeholders. 192 ICAR Institutes Profile 192 ICAR-Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: Krishi Anusandhan Bhawan-I, Pusa Campus, New Delhi-110012, INDIA ii. Name of the Director: Dr. SK Malhotra iii. Email address: director.dkma@icar.gov.in Phone No.: 011-25842787 2. Mandate and activities • To collate, compile, publish and disseminate useful agricultural knowledge. • To manage information repository and act as custodian of agricultural knowledge through print and emerging media of information and communication. • To plan and coordinate the dissemination of agricultural information at national and international levels. • To act as a knowledge centre and clearing-house for information relating to research for development in agriculture, animal husbandry, fisheries and allied sciences including home sciences using state-of-the art information and communication technologies. • To provide literature for strengthening and promoting research, education and extension. Activities  Publication of Agricultural literature: Research Journals (2), Popular Journals (4), Annual Reports (2), Books & Handbooks (8), text books, and other miscellaneous publications.  Maintaining Website & Social Media Platforms of ICAR & DARE.  Media Publicity & Public Relations: Holding/ participation in melas/exhibitions, Publicity in print electronic media, Films production Agricultural Extension 193 Agricultural Extension 193 3. Salient achievements  Two research journals, namely Indian Journal of Animals Sciences and Indian Journals of Agricultural Sciences, are being published at monthly interval since 1931. So far 92 volumes of each have been published.  Four popular journals: Indian Farming (Monthly), [ksrh ¼ekfld½, Indian Horticulture (Bi- monthly) and Qy&Qwy ¼n~oSekfld½ are being regularly published and so far 72, 75, 67 and 43 volumes respectively of these journals have been published respectively.