 Nematodes: Response against cereal cyst nematode (CCN), ear cockle nematode (ECN) and root knot nematode (RKN) may be recorded in the affected regions. (xii) Reactions to abiotic stresses (heat, moisture, salt and cold) are to be recorded in the national physiological screening nurseries. (xiii) Quality features such as grain size, colour, hardness index, appearance score, protein content, hecto-litre weight, flour recovery, flour water absorption capacity, sedimentation value, moisture content, HMWGS are to be recorded. (xiv) In durum, γ-gliadin, yellow berry incidence and ß-carotene contents should be recorded. 4. Characters/variables on which data are required to be generated at the final stage of testing (AVT-II) In addition to the characters cited at nos 2 and 3, data on the following shall also be generated. a. Agronomic performance (i) Response to date of sowing (ii) Response to fertilizer doses (under both irrigated and rainfed conditions) (iii) Response to irrigation levels (iv) Phytotoxicity reaction to commonly used weedicides (v) Suitability to zero tillage/raised-bed planting b. Pathology (i) Seedling reactions against individual races of brown, black and yellow rusts. c. Quality (i) Tests for chapati- and bread- making qualities. Data on floor extraction rate (%), wet gluten (%), dry gluten (%) and gluten index (%) are also to be recorded. In case of durum, semolina-and pasta- making properties are also to be evaluated. d. Physiology (i) Reaction to abiotic stresses 5. Special trials Special trials may be organized to identify varieties for the following. (i) Salinity and alkalinity trials (ii) Dicoccum wheat trials (iii) Triticale trials 20 GUIDELINES FOR TESTING CROP VARIETIES UNDER AICCIPS Trials Timely sown Late sown Plot size Reps Plot size Reps IVT 6.00m × 1.38m (Gross) 2 6.00m × 1.08m (Gross) 2 5.00m × 0.92m (Net) 5.00m × 0.72m (Net) AVT 6.00m ×2.76m (Gross) 4 6.00m × 2.16m (Gross) 4 5.00m× 2.30m (Net) 5.00m × l.80m (Net) Row spacing 23cm 18cm Sl No. Zone States 1. Northern Hills Zone (NHZ) Hills of Jammu and Kashmir (except foothills of Jammu and Kathua), Himachal Pradesh (except Una district and Paonta valley), Uttarakhand (except tarai region), Sikkim and hills of West Bengal and North-Eastern States 2. North Western Plains Zone (NWPZ) Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, Rajasthan (except Kota and Udaipur divisions), western Uttar Pradesh (except Jhansi and Bundelkhand divisions), Jammu and Kathua districts of Jammu and Kashmir, Paonta Valley and Una district of Himachal Pradesh and tarai region of Uttarakhand 3. North Eastern Plains Zone (NEPZ) Eastern Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Odisha, West Bengal (excluding hills), Asom and plain areas of North- Eastern States 4. Central Zone (CZ) Madhya Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Gujarat, Kota and Udaipur divisions of Rajasthan and Jhansi and Bundelkhand divisions of Uttar Pradesh 5.