 Cattle owners consider gum as a pain-killer and sisam leaves as cooling agent. It is an age-old practice. Keywords: prolapsed uterus, gum, sisam, pain- killer, cooling agent Sometimes uterus of cows and buffaloes come out before calving, and bleeding may start. Cattle owners of district Alwar in Rajasthan collect 250 g roots of young babool tree and keep it in 4 litres water after grinding. This mixture is boiled in earthern pot until Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology). College o( Horticulture and Forestry. Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 3304 Treatment of prolapsed uterus with adha supari 3305 Use of bael (Aegle mannelns) for treatment of prolapsed uterus in animals 3306 Treatment of prolapsed uterus with thorc, lajwanti and simada solution is reduced to 2 litres and turns dark in colour. This decoction is drenched orally @ 500 ml twice a day with a bamboo pipe. Fodders, which produce heat in body, are given to the needy animal. Keywords: prolapsed uterus, babool, heat, bleeding When cattle suffer from prolapsed uterus, the cattle owners collect 100 g adha supari {Areca catechu) and grind it to prepare a paste by adding 250 ml water. About 200 ml fresh water is again added to it. This dose is given twice a day and continued up to 15 days for complete recovery. This age- old practice is being followed by cattle owners of village Mantal of Ahmedabad (Gujarat). Keywords: prolapsed uterus, adha supari This ITK is practised in Bichuria village of Bareilly district in Uttar Pradesh. About 100-150 g bael (Aegle marmelos) is boiled and its juice is given to the animal for treatment of prolapsed uterus. Keywords: bael (Aegle marmelos), prolapsed uterus, animal Cows and she-buffaloes suffer from prolapse of the uterus during their pregnancy, causing bleeding during the sitting time. To cure this disease, flowers of thore (Opuntia spp.) are mixed with grass and fed to the animal. While in the second step, 100 g lajwanti (Mimosa pudica) plant extract is mixed with 200 ml water, which is orally given to the cattle with a bamboo stick. In the third step 100 g simada (Bombax malabarium) fruit extract is given separately. This practice is continued till the final Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Dr Ranjay K Singh, Assistant Professor (Agricultural Extension and Rural Sociology), College of Horticulture and Forestry, Central Agricultural University, Pasighat (Arunachal Pradesh) 731 102 Shri Md. Noor Ahmed, S/o Shri Md. Lai Mohamed, Bichuria, Balia, dist.