 A double mould board plough or a ridger should be used for earthing up after 25- 30 days of sowing. Application of paddy straw mulch @ 24 q/acre immediately after planting provides affective control of annual weeds and irrigation saving. Furrow Irrigation: The first irrigation should be given immediately after planting as it ensures better germination. The potato crop responds well to light and repeated irrigations. The total number of irrigations will be 7-8 in light textures soils. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 151 Drip irrigation in potato results not only increase in yield but also saves 38% of water over conventional method of irrigation. Under this system, irrigation should be applied at two days’ interval. The potato crop should be irrigated with a lateral pipe having dripper discharge of 2.2 litre per hour. Fertigation saves 20% fertilizer. Apply 24.50 kg Urea, 6.6 kg Mono Ammonium Phosphate and kg Muriate of Potash (white) per acre during first month of the growing period of the crop in 7 equal doses with every second irrigation (4 days’ interval). The first fertigation should be started after germination of the crop. The remaining amount of fertilizer 97.5 kg Urea, 26.2 kg Mono Ammonium Phosphate and 26.7 kg Muriate of Potash (white) should be applied in equal doses during rest of the crop season (before last irrigation) in 13 equal doses with every second irrigation (4 days interval). Harvesting: Suitable tractor operated digger has been developed and is available in the market. There should be optimum moisture in the soil at the time of harvest. The clods affect the efficient functioning of potato digger. Grading: After harvesting the potato should be graded. Four grades may be made 1-Small size (below 25 g weight) 2-Medium size (25- 50 g weight) 3- Large size (50-75 g weight) and 4- Extra-large size (above 75 g weight). Leno bags can be used for potato storage by keeping quality intact. It should be stored in the cold storage where temperature at 2-4 degree C and relative humidity is 75- 80%. Onion The optimum temperature for vegetative phase and bulb development is 13-24˚C and 16-25˚C, respectively. It requires about 70% relative humidity for good growth. It can grow well in places where the average annual rainfall is 650-750 mm with good distribution during the monsoon period. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 152 The best soil for successful onion cultivation is deep, friable loam and alluvial soils with good drainage, moisture holding capacity and sufficient organic matter. The optimum pH range, regardless of soil type, is 6.0 - 7.5, but onion can also be grown in mild alkaline soils. Varieties of onion are Agrifound dark red, Agrifound white, N-53, Pusa red, Pusa white round, Pusa white flat, Arka kalyan, Arka lalima For raising nursery, apply 5 qt. decomposed farmyard manure at the time of last ploughing in 0.05 ha and mix well with soil. Raised bed should be 10-15 cm height, 1.0-1.