 When commercialized, the technology will desist deforestation. COTTON TECHNOLOGY The agri-engineers help plant breeders to evaluate the quality of cotton fibre when evolving new varieties. Using X-ray defractometer, transport of nutrients has been studied for improving the productivity of the cotton plant. The cotton stalk has been used for manufacturing paper, packaging-material and particleboards. COMMERCIALIZED JUTE, COTTON AND LAC PRODUCTS OPERATION PRODUCT Jute technology Jute fibre products : caplon blanket, carpet, decorative fabrics, non-woven products, thermal insulation, par- ticle board, paper Cotton technology Cotton-stalk residue products : paper, particle board, packaging box Lac processing Lac waste products : edible grade lac dye, aleuritic acid perfumery base Particle boards manufactured from jute-and-cotton residues DAYVLACQUERED HANDICRAFTS 4 TOYS Dry-lacquered handicrafts and toys Lac, the hardened secretion Seo. gmeres SHelld6a product of the natural resin of a tiny insect called the lag” ew LAC TECHNOLOGY Lac is a natural resin used in the production of decorative paint and sealing wax. It provides subsidiary income to about 4 million cultivators, mostly tribal. Of the total 20,000 tonnes of the natural resin produced, 75% is exported fetching Rs 880 million in foreign exchange. The new variant of KUSUMI lac insect evolved through screening produces superior resin pink in colour. The host plants KUSUMI and AKASHMANI promise higher lac productivity. Palas (Butea monosperma) evolved through air-layering for RANGEENI lac insect starts yielding lac when the plant is in the sixth or seventh year. The edible-grade lac dye, aleuritic acid (perfumery compound), juvenile hormone analogues, agro-chemicals besides insu- ——— ee lation and varnish are a few lac- Stick fac. Separation of the natural resin produced by the lac insect is in based products developed for industrial application. They also have export the women's domain potential. LIAISON WITH INDUSTRIES Linkage has been established with industries for conversion of the researched prototypes into a commercial product and for its pilot marketing. This is achieved through entrepreneurial training, plant guidance and consultancy. The R&D workshops are equipped to _ fabricate prototypes for multilocation verification and pilot introduction. This also facilitates techno-economic evaluation and refinement in varying agroclimates. More than 35 items have been released by The equipment to test the animal draught power is very effective. It has been developed at the CIAE, the National Implement Review Bhopal Developing jigs and fixtures for batch manufacturing, CIAE, Bhopal Animal-drawn potato-cum- groundnut digger, CIAE, Bhopal Pedal/power-operated cleaner-cum- grader, CIAE, Bhopal Manual groundnut decorticator, the rocking-type, CIAE, Bhopal SHARING OF EXPERTISE...