 This practice increases the forage/grain yield up to 10-12% with no need of later interculturing operations. Keywords: maize dibbling, ridger, hoeing operation, furrow, modified planting technique Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2361 Growing of maize as grain and fodder crop Usually this practice is common in maize growing areas of Jammu region (Jammu and Kashmir). Instead of sowing seeds @ 2kg/kanal, the seed is sown at a much higher rate @ 5-6 kg/kanal. Thinning in maize is done one month after sowing to pick-up the undesired plants. The desired population is raised for grain purpose. This practice is advantageous as damages Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E- Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec  /mortalities of plants due to infestation of insect-pest is taken care of due to use of higher seed rate. The plants obtained after thinning is used as fodder for the animals. Keywords: maize, high seed rate, fodder crop, thinning tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2348 Tin beating for protecting maize crop from wild animals In Kandi areas of Jammu region, monkey and neel cows are very common. When the maize cobs are at milky stage, monkeys and neel cows (antilop) Eattack the crop and destroy it. In order to check the attack, farmers of Jammu and Kathua districts in Jammu and Kashmir beat tin peepa at night. Though this practice creates drudgery to the farmers, as they have to remain awake during night but is quite effective in saving the crop from animals. Keywords: tin beating, peepa, neel cow, maize cob, monkey Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-Eattack Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collec- tion, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Use of proper sowing time for better germination of sorghum Farmers of Barsi tehsil of Solapur district and rabi predominant area of Ahmednagar district sow sorghum crop (both irrigated and rainfed) during 15-30 September. During this period good germination of sorghum is observed. Keywords: proper sowing time, better germination, sorghum crop, 15-30 September Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722 2303 Sowing of rabi sorghum during Gokul Ashtami festival Farmers of Ahmednagar district and Malshiras and Mangalsvedha tehsils of Solapur district adopt this practice of sowing during Gokul Ashtami festival.