 yy Established Innovation Cell and Incubation Facilities at the AUs level, which provides a platform to boost students' activities - research in niche areas, ideation, prototype development, market research, and start-up ecosystem. yy Established language labs in AUs to help students learn foreign languages, namely, English, French, German and Spanish. It benefits the students to opt for academic opportunities abroad. yy To ensure future readiness, and to mitigate the risk of fire, terrorist attacks, and natural calamities, the ICT infrastructure of Indian Council of Agricultural Research-Agricultural Universities (ICAR-AU) system is being strengthened by establishing the Disaster Recovery Centre (DRC). ICAR- Data Centre (ICAR-DC) and ICAR- DRC are synchronized with each other and its OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 27 technologies helped to build ICAR - Cloud with capabilities to support Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Video Streaming applications along with the existing web and Mobile Apps. Network integration between the institutions is providing seamless access to the application services running on these centers to the users. The key outcomes envisaged through the establishment of such facilitative Centres are to increase student placement rates, increase on-time graduation rates, improve faculty research effectiveness, etc. This, in turn, would promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation in agriculture and the allied sector. agriculture sectors can simultaneously support climate change adaptation and mitigation while improving rural people’s livelihoods. NAHEP focuses on education, awareness-raising and human and institutional capacity for climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction and early warning. The NAHEP interventions specifically target AU curricula reform to internalize climate change and resilience in current and future course content and tie this with experiential learning for the certificate, undergraduate (UG) and post graduate (PG) students for practical career applications. Partner AUs have also entered in MoUs with institutes such as International Water Management Institutes (IWMI), Colombo, Sri Lanka, National Institute of Abiotic Stress Management (NIASM), Malegaon (Kh), Baramati, Water and Land Management Institute, Aurangabad, Watershed Organisation Trust (WOTR), Pune, Grass Roots Action for Social Participation (GRASP), Aurangabad to collaborate in understanding the industry and research needs on Climate Smart Agriculture. Goal 7 Affordable and Clean En- ergy: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all The NAHEP interventions specifically target AU curricula reform to internalize climate change and resilience in current and future course content and tie this with experiential learning for the certificate, undergraduate (UG) and post graduate (PG) students for practical career applications.