 At the same time, heavy metals were significantly taken up by the fodder crops, which was evident from the Cr and Pb contents being higher than the maximum permissible limit in fodder crops, animal milk and blood. Therefore, based on this study, a combination of lesser heavy metal accumulating fodder crops (Fodder Oat, Berseem and Fodder Maize) and suitable dilution ratio of sewage water (1:3 ratio, sewage water: ground water) practices should be adopted for long term irrigation with sewage water to minimize heavy metals accumulation in the soil-fodder-animal continuum. The seed yield of castor was significantly influenced due to different tillage practices and Sugarcane settling transplanting Spraying of FeSO4 using drone Sugarcane 21 days after spraying of FeSO4 PGR Technology to augment Sugarcane Crop and Sugar Yield A technology to augment sugarcane crop and sugar yield has been developed at ICAR-IISR, Lucknow through exogenous interventions of plant growth regulators, viz. GA3 and Ethrel at four critical stages of crop growth cycle that resulted in faster germination of cane setts, enhanced shoot population, development of smart canopies and robust root system, more number of millable canes and increased cane height, weight and yield. Iron deficiency management in Sugarcane: Drone spraying of 2.5% FeSO4 in 25 litres ha-1 is recommended to correct the iron deficiency symptoms during tillering phase in sugarcane. If the deficiency symptom reoccurs, one more foliar spraying is recommended at 30 days intervals. Evaluation of CAM variants for salinity tolerance and expression of CAM: To understand the phenomenon of CAM (Crassulacean Acid Metabolism) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 69 CROP MANAGEMENT intercropping systems under rainfed conditions in Alfisols. Significantly, the highest seed yield and equivalent yield of castor, was realized under conventional tillage (1,758, 2,452 kg/ha) which was at par with reduced tillage (1,652, 2,294 kg/ ha) and lowest seed yield was recorded in zero tillage (1,244, 1,972 kg/ha). Among intercropping systems, the highest CEY was registered in castor + groundnut intercropping (2,640 kg/ha) followed by castor + redgram (2,389 kg/ha) and sole castor (1,907 kg/ha). Soil organic carbon (SOC) was significantly influenced due to tillage practices and the highest SOC content was found under reduced tillage (0.64%) followed by the zero tillage (0.63%) and the lowest was observed in conventional tillage (0.56%). Among the intercropping system highest soil carbon content was found in castor + redgram (0.67%) followed by castor + greengram (0.65%), castor + groundnut (0.60%) and lowest SOC was found in sole castor (0.57%). Dose-dependent impact of zinc oxide nanoparticles on chickpea: Zinc (Zn) is an essential element for maturity and development of plants. It also controls the production of oxidative free radicals and detoxifies biological processes.