 Marketing, transportation and storage are very big problem even in this modern time. Railway is passive in various regions. In this article we have addressed the wheat cultivation problems and prevention measures for the wheat cultivation in northeastern part of India Keywords: Constraints, India, North-east, Remedies, Wheat Indian Farming 73 (12): 27-29; December 2023 N ORTH-east India consists of eight states and one of the most diverse regions of India. However, wheat cultivation faces several challenges in the North East. Cultivation area and the production of wheat are negligible in the North East states except Assam (Table 1). Three states namely Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have higher wheat productivity in comparison to other states of North East. Wheat cultivation is highly distressing especially in humid and subtropical environment where excessive rainfall with high temperature is the common feature. The foremost challenge is the precocious germination of seeds at the time of harvest due to pre-monsoon showers which affects grain quality and produce is not accepted by the consumers thus, fetches lower price in the market. Amidst climatic difficulties, the scientific advancements which involved development of rain resistant wheat through genome editing and induced mutagenesis is most encouraging for cultivating wheat in the regions experiencing rains at maturity. Except Assam, the cultivation area and production of wheat is negligible in other north-eastern states (Table 1). However, Tripura, Arunachal Pradesh and Meghalaya have higher wheat productivity in comparison of other north eastern states (Table 1). Various NGOs might help for efficient extension system in a public-private partnership (PPP) way. Initiation of co-operative societies by the farmers and entrepreneurship development of farmers to overcome the marketing related problems in this region. It provides a plan for the betterment not only to the farmers also to the government also. So, there may be various problems but to overcome that, encouragement is necessary. Constraints of wheat production in northeast India Climate, soil and topography: North-east India has a humid and subtropical climate. Average rainfall in this region is about 2000 mm per annum and influenced by the southwest and northeast monsoon in the Brahmaputra and Barak valley. The temperature varies from valley to hilly areas. In plains of north-east India, mean summer temperature is 28oC and goes up to 33-35oC and mean winter temperature is 14-16oC. Distribution of pre-monsoon rains during March- April affects the ripened grains of the wheat crop at harvesting stage. The wheat grain germinates in the spike itself and grain quality deteriorates heavily resulting into poor price in the market. Further, the contrasting climatic conditions in this zone from the north western states of Punjab causes higher respiration which negatively affects the grain filling thus, poor filled grains.