 ‘Integrated Management of Fruit Flies (Diptera: Tephritidae)’. The project is for 3 years and is commencing from 1 January 2002. The aim of the project is to develop integrated pest management methods to reduce the problems of fruit flies Diptera: Tephritidae for small farmers in the country. l ICAR-Australian Centre for International Agricultural Research (ACIAR) project viz. ‘Permanent beds for irrigated Rice-Wheat and alternative cropping systems in North-West India and South-East Australia’ was signed for 5 years and is to be implemented by the Punjab Agricultural University, Ludhiana. The objectives of the project are to increase the sustainability, yield, resource use efficiency and profitability of Rice-Wheat systems of the Indo-Gangatic Plain (IGP) and of the cropping systems in the rice growing areas of Australia, through improves soil, water and nutrient management using permanent beds. l International Foundation for Science (IFS) Project, Stockholm, Sweden viz. ‘Development of rhizome disinfection technology for management of l Foreign delegations (more than 8) came to India during the reported period. l Indian delegations (more than 65) visited to foreign countries. l DARE/ICAR have conducted 4 workshops, 4 meetings, 2 training courses organized by the CGIAR centers in India. l The short-term and long-term courses were arranged for foreign nationals of Nepal, Bhutan, ITEC Programmes, FAO etc. Dr Panjab Singh signed on a work plan between ICAR, India and IRRI, Manila, Phillipines bacterial wilt of ginger’ was approved on 5 September 2002 for 3 years. The objective of the project is to develop a simple disinfection technology for rhizome Rhizobium solanacearum using renewable solar energy. The project is to be implemented by the Indian Institute of Spices Research, Calicut. l The Project viz. ‘Development of locally- adapted, multiple disease-resistant, high-yielding chilli (Capsicum annuum L.) cultivars for targeted countries in Asia’ was approved on 16 September 2002 w.e.f. 1 March 2002 for 3 years. The project is to be implemented in 4 collaborating countries viz. India, Indonesia, Thailand and China. The project was prepared in consultation with South Asian Vegetable Research Network and Asian Vegetable Network partners and is being funded by them. PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES 219 PROTOCOL ACTIVITIES Foreign delegations to India l The Indonesian experts were trained in the field of ‘Pathology and Wheat Breeding’ at Directorate of Wheat Research, Karnal for 1 month w.e.f. 1 March 2002. l H E Mr Dato Choo Slew Kioh, High Commissioner of Malaysia led 9-member-delegation and visited Indian Agricultural Research Institute, New Delhi on 2 May 2002. l H E Mr C J Mesang (Member of Parliament, Indonesia), Dr Haryono and Mr. Suwarna from Secretariat Agency for Agricultural Research and Development, Indonesia visited India from 5 to 8 May 2002.