 The database on categorized Frieswal crossbred bull spermatozoal transcripts was developed to use as a non-invasive tool for prediction of male infertility in crossbred bulls. Study on correlation of different semen quality parameters with expression profiles of genes showed that AKAP4 had significant correlation with both semen quality parameters. Acrosome integrity was also found correlated with the expression profiles of SOD, PKM2. Phylogenetic analysis of the assembled mithun mitochondrial genome and other available Bos species demonstrated the inclusion of mithun and gaur (Bos gaurus) in the same cladogram suggesting their common origin from an ancient Bos species, which might be extinct now. The genetic distance calculated using genome wide SNPs in the Indian yaks revealed that Ladakhi and Sikkimi yak populations are distinct. Five new aquatic species were recorded from Indian waters, viz. Aenigmachanna mahabali, from a well in Kerala; Cypselurus opisthopus, from south-eastern Arabian Sea; Bathymyrus simus, from Arabian Sea and Bay of Bengal; Leptojulis lambdastigma from Andaman and Nicobar Islands and Thor hainanensis, an ornamental shrimp from Agatti Island, Lakshadweep. An online information system, AqGRISI (Aquatic Genetic Information System of India) was developed to provide information on different aspects of native fishes of India. Characterised natural populations of Chitala chitala, Mugil cephalus, Silonia silondia and Tenualosa ilisha using mitochondrial markers for population divergence and genetic stock identification. Molecular markers for diagnosis of EUS (Epizootic Ulcerative Syndrome) disease resistance/ susceptibility in fishes were ascertained. Genes involved in muscle growth, lipid synthesis and immune system of hilsa (T. ilisha) were identified. Full reference transcriptome sequences were generated separately for male and female fish parasite, Argulus siamensis for its efficient control. Established protocol for producing sterile triploid rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss for its production enhancement. Crop improvement: During reported period, a total DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 3 OVERVIEW of 220 varieties were notified and released for commercial cultivation. These comprised 96 of cereals, 37 of oilseeds, 51 of pulses, 18 of commercial crops and 18 forage crops. Besides, 20 biofortified varieties of different crops including rice, wheat, maize, sorghum, pearl millet, linseed and finger millet were also developed. Six varieties of different cereal and pulse crops, viz wheat, maize and chickpea were developed through genomic selection. The CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing technology was standardized for different crops to enhance stress tolerance and nutritional quality. In rice, CRISPR-Cas9 genome editing was used to develop mutants of DST (Drought and Salt Tolerance) gene for improving salt and drought tolerance.