 During initial and mild stress conditions, the plant balances the osmotic conditions in cells and manages a suitable stomatal movements intended to fulfil CO2 requirement through stomatal pores. During this stage, the PS II and membrane integrity are not permanently damaged and hence, the decline in growth is not significantly affected. In medicinal plants, it is basically a kind of trade-off between two traits worth to understand: i) weakening primary metabolism as a sink leading to retarded growth, and ii) strengthening secondary metabolism as a sink leading to increased yield of secondary metabolites. A prolonged severe stress conditions has different consequences on physiology of medicinal plants. A significant decrease in biomass and yield of seeds in plants due to elevation of stress caused by drought and other associated stresses is reported. Benefits of elevated secondary metabolites may be achieved in medicinal plants at the cost of sacrificing the biomass yield under stress condition. Evaluation of photosynthetic activities and physiological state based on the time dependent changes of the chlorophyll A fluorescence has become the routine investigation in plant studies especially under stress environments. The application of chlorophyll A fluorescence imaging in plant research is growing rapidly, ranging from basic research at the cell and sub-cellular level to biotechnology or remote sensing of plant canopy and this technique has been developed as a versatile tool for determining and understanding the heterogeneity in a leaf photochemical efficiency. The data on chlorophyll fluorescence parameters explaining damage via photo-inhibitory action had been used to differentiate between susceptible and tolerant genotypes of plants. A severe and prolonged stress condition disrupts membrane integrity and causes permanent damage to PSII leading to a decline in maximum (Fv/Fm) and thereby actual photosynthetic efficiency (F’v/F’m) in plants. It is accompanied with drastic decline in stomatal conductance in accordance to prevent water loss besides making a huge stomatal limitation to CO2 influx which is one of the reasons to reduced F’v/F’m. Hypothetically, in medicinal plants, a stress condition called optimum stress condition is one in which there is increase in secondary metabolites without significantly affecting the biological yield. However, a wide spectrum of group of secondary metabolites, different pheno- phases, preferred plant part for accumulation of secondary metabolites and life span makes it difficult to define an optimum stress condition. Further, soil type and climatic conditions of a region, continuous or simulated stress, duration of stress and coinciding phenophase makes the conditions very difficult in defining the optimum stress condition. A comprehensive response of different stress conditions at different growth stages on secondary metabolites content and growth in various plants is reviewed.