 sericulture) – Five Awardee Women Farmers at State Level (One representing each of the major Departments – Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, other enterprises eg. sericulture) Responsibilities Formulate state level policies and guidelines to strengthen convergence among all the developmental departments on the matters related to Extension, particularly through ATMA and KVK Suggest strategies to execute National and State policies related to extension in agriculture and allied sectors and the decisions taken by National Frontline Extension Coordination Committee Frequency of Meetings Once in a Year (Prior to National Level meeting) 56 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra 3. District Frontline Extension Coordination Committee Co-chairs: (i) Chief Scientist-cum-Head, KVK (ii) District Head of Department of Agriculture/Project Director (ATMA) Co-Conveners: (i) Senior most Scientist of KVK (ii) Project Director (ATMA)/Deputy Project Director (ATMA) Members: ICAR and SAU Heads of Research Stations (ICAR Institutes and SAUs) or representatives, located in the District Development Departments Heads of all Development Departments at the District level Project Director, DRDA Heads of Supporting Departments like Irrigation, Electricity at the district level Media Head of AIR office in the District Representative of Doordarshan Two Representatives of other popular TV Channels in the District (rotation basis) Two Representatives of Print Media (rotation basis) Progressive Farmers – Five Awardee Farmers at District Level (One representing each of the major Departments – Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, other enterprises eg. sericulture) – Five Awardee Women Farmers at District Level (One representing each of the major Departments–Agriculture, Horticulture, Animal Husbandry, Fisheries, other enterprises eg. sericulture) Responsibilities: Work out modus operandi and execute the decisions of National and State Frontline Extension Convergence Committees Provide regular feedback to National and State Frontline Extension Coordination Committees on the status of implementation of the decisions of National and State Frontline Extension Coordination Committees Frequency of Meetings: Half yearly (pre-seasonal) 57 Annexures ANNEXURE-VII Delegation of financial powers to Chief Scientist-cum-Head of KVK Sl. No. Delegation of power Existing Power Suggested Power 1. To sanction purchase of feeds and fodder, seeds, fertilizer, insecticides, medicines and payment of electricity/telephone/fuel bills. (through constitution of Local Purchase Committee with 2-3 members) 2. Approval of Tour Programmes of KVK staff within the State and counter-signature of TA/medical reimbursement and transfer TA bills. 3. To sanction contingent expenditure recurring/non-recurring with specific purpose, other than repair and maintenance. 4.