 The practicals related to measures to maintain hygiene at pig farm, management and breeding, pig by-products utilization, record keeping, measures to prevent and control the diseases, reproductive disorders in pigs and their remedies, identification systems (tattooing, tagging, marking), routine activities of pig farm, , attending farrowing and management of new born, feeding and management of various categories of pigs (piglets, weaners, growers, gilts, boars, finishers), restraining animals and first aid, preparing and maintaining records so that entrepreneurs can easily perform day to day activities of farm without any hassle are also demonstrated. In addition to domain experts provisions for interactions of entrepreneurs with successful entrepreneurs, banking sector, are also facilitated. Visits to successfully operating pig farms both in private and government sector are also arranged for the participants. The impact of EDPs was visualized as some of the trained participants started their own work within 30 days of EDP. Continuous technical support has been rendered to these entrepreneurs by Agri- Business Incubation (ABI) Centre and technical experts of IVRI. To provide identity and authenticity to these entrepreneurs registration through Udyog Aadhar (MSME) was encouraged. Quality meat production, processing and value addition Entrepreneurship development programme on quality meat production, processing and value addition is another important programme conducted under ABI which attracts lots of participants. The programme covers important topics, viz. entrepreneurship opportunities and overview of meat production and processing in the country , detailed project report for establishment of experimental abattoir, basic tools and equipment of slaughter house and their handling, detailed project report for establishment of meat processing plant and its requirements.Under this programme, topics of practical significance include basic tools and equipment of meat processing pilot plants and their handling, processing of meat for emulsion, enrobed, restructured, cured, smoked, shelf stable, convenient and traditional meat products, establishment of effluent treatment plant and by- product utilization plant, detailed project report for establishing meat quality laboratory, packaging and marketing of meat and meat products, business plan and project report preparation, how to start your own business, organic animal husbandry for quality meat, production of quality meat, cutting, processing and value addition, importance of personal hygiene in meat production and processing etc. Agri-preneurship Incubation and Orientation programme through RKVY- RAFTAAR ABI scheme To further promote and transform the entrepreneurial activity into startups GOI, DAC launched a programme RKVY-RAFTAAR to Promotional activities through IVRI Website/ Social media/ News paper etc.