 Mangiferin displays strong antioxidant, anti-glycemic, anti-cancer, anti-microbial and anti- inflammatory effects, to name a few. Being a xanthone, the antioxidant capacity of mangiferin may even be greater than super oxidants (vitamin C and vitamin E). It controls July–August 2021 57 the blood glucose level by inhibiting glucose absorption from the intestine: defying the popular belief that mango consumption is not good for diabetic patients. Thanks to its antioxidant, anti-inflammatory and gene modulatory properties, mangiferin has gained wide attention as a potential therapeutic for cancer treatment. Recently, mangiferin was found to inhibit the growth of Covid-19 virus (SARS-CoV-2) in molecular docking studies and thus could be a safe therapeutic alternative to chemical inhibitors. Lupeol Chemically a triterpene, lupeol is found in high amounts in mango pulp. It shows a range of pharmacological properties against acute or chronic health problems like arthritis, cancer, cardiovascular ailments, diabetes and microbial infections, and is known to accelerate wound healing. Lupeol efficiently alleviates arthritis-related symptoms like inflammation, swelling and pain. Thanks to their strong anti-mutagenic effects, lupeol and its derivatives are considered as excellent starting materials for developing anti-cancerous drugs. Noticeably, while killing cancerous cells, lupeol does not have any harmful effects on normal human cells. Like mangiferin, lupeol also suppresses carbohydrate absorption in the intestine and inhibits the activity of the enzyme a-amylase, thereby lowering the risk of diabetes. Flavonoids Flavonoids, the most abundant polyphenols in human diet, are grouped into several classes, like flavones, flavonols and anthocyanins. Besides free radical scavenging properties, flavonoids also exhibit anti- microbial, anti-inflammatory and anti-allergic effects. Catechin, epicatechin, myricetin, kaempferol, rutin and quercetin are the major flavonoids found in mango pulp. Catechin has strong antioxidant, anti-carcinogenic and anti-ageing properties. Myricetin is known for its iron- chelating, antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, and is increasingly being seen as a novel therapeutic agent for alleviating iron deficiency-related health problems like anemia. It is worth mentioning that several mango cultivars contain 3-4 times more myricetin than quercetin, another flavonoid valued for its highly beneficial effects in osteoporosis, lung cancer and cardiovascular problems. Hesperidin, a rare flavonone found in some mango cultivars (e.g. Alphonso), shows anti-carcinogenic properties. Phenolic acids Mango fruit pulp contains a range of phenolic acids, valued for their functional and nutraceutical properties. Ellagic acid, one of the main phenolic acids found in mango, is quite effective in overcoming obesity and obesity-related health problems like atherosclerosis, type-2 diabetes and non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.