 The sensitivity risk is the degree of dependency on resources that are affected by the hazards. Therefore, to analyse the drought sensitivity risk, population density (PD) was considered a resource affected by drought (i.e. economic and health risk). People are affected by water scarcity and food insecurity as a result of crop yield reduction and economic loss caused by droughts. Therefore, the PD data (people/km2) was obtained over the same period as the worst-case drought year for the hazard risk assessment. The PD was further reclassified into four classes based on the percentile distribution (Table 4), and the risk was further assessed. The districts with higher number of people per square kilo­ metre were considered more vulnerable and more sensitive to droughts Fig. 13. Spatial variation of drought occurrences over the past and future periods at GRB, illustrated in Fig (A) and (B), respectively under future warming scenarios. Fig. 14. NDVI maps showing the onset of drought and its spatial extent of effects on agricultural areas during the severe drought years of 2009 and 2012 at GRB. K.P. Bharambe et al. Climate Services 32 (2023) 100415 17 hazard in terms of the degree of damage caused to individuals, partic­ ularly for water requirements and economic loss. The areas with comparatively smaller number of people per square kilometre were considered less vulnerable to drought risks and associated impacts. Accordingly, a sensitivity risk map was prepared and overlayed with the exposure risk map to assess the level of vulnerability risk over the sub- basins of GRB more precisely. The final drought risk map for agriculture over the GRB area was prepared (Fig. 15), and it represented the level of drought risk at each district in each sub-basin. This map was prepared using the overlay analysis of classified drought hazard and drought vulnerability map (Drought Risk = Drought Hazard × Drought Vulnerability (Exposure × Sensitivity)) using the two-dimensional table of overall risk score (Table 5). The results show that 22 districts, which covered approximately 30% of the total GRB area, were classified as safe from drought risk (although the area was only 7.5% when calculated considering only the drought hazard (SPEI)). This demonstrates the importance of considering the vulnerability and exposure components in a risk analysis for a precise risk assessment. A lower area of approximately 8% presented low risk, whereas an area of approximately 11% (covering six districts) presented very high risk, as highlighted in dark red in Fig. 15. Thirteen districts in the middle and the north-western parts of the state were classified at medium risk (yellow), whereas the remaining ten districts in the north and east were classified at low risk (light green) owing mostly to their lower PD and higher share of non-agricultural land. According to the agriculture drought risk assessment, the areas highlighted in dark red in Fig.