 Further, these ITKs were subjected to cross-sectoral validation through experimentation providing the results of experiments and its critical analysis on the efficacy of the ITKs, have been compiled in the form of this publication entitled “Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture”. The results have been very interesting and extremely important that support scientific rationality of the ITKs for promoting their further application for the benefits of the farming community. This volume contains an inventory of 38 selected promising ITKs covering six thematic areas viz, Rain water management, Soil and water conservation, Pest and disease management, Farm implements, Horticultural crops and Fishery & Animal husbandry. I hope this publication will open new chapter in agricultural research and provide the scientists a new direction for appropriate blending of ITKs with modern technologies. The innovative efforts made by scientists in bringing out this publication are commendable. Dated: 17th February, 2020 (T. Mohapatra) New Delhi  v PREFACE The advent of the concept of sustainable agriculture in late eighties in Indian agricultural scenario has evoked interest on indigenous technical knowledge (ITK) that has the element of use of natural products to solve the problems pertaining to agriculture and allied activities. ITK is local knowledge that is unique to a given culture or society transmitted from one generation to another generation. It is specifically concerned with actual application of the thinking of the local people in various operations of agriculture and allied areas. ITKs are based on experiences tested over centuries, and endowed with best adaptability to local environment. In the context of agricultural sustainability, ITK is also required to be properly documented for the benefit of researches, planners and development officials. Further, validation of ITK is a logical step to qualify and quantify effectiveness of the practices. Suitable modification of the local practices, through research and development helps to develop appropriate and acceptable technologies that are more suited to our farming situations. The Indian Council of Agricultural research (ICAR) had launched a Mission Mode Project on “Collection, Documentation and Validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge” under the National Agricultural Technology Project (NATP) in the year 2002 to identify, collect, classify and document ITK and its variant in different agro- climatic regions in respect of production systems, farming systems and situations and cross-sectoral validation was done through a quick screening method as well as through formal experimentation. The critical analysis on the efficacy of the ITKs, have been compiled to publish as “Traditional Knowledge in Agriculture”.