 Granivorous birds devoured about 74% of the spilled wheat grains from harvested fields and cleared fallow land from weed seeds. Cattle egrets fed effectively on Helicoverpa armigera and Spodoptera exigua in groundnut fields. The use of reflective ribbons in a kinnow-orchard resulted in reduction of fruit damage to the extent of 13% over a period of 15 days at Solan. Streaked laughing thrust (Garrulax lineatus) has been observed for the first time feeding on damaged apple fruits. At KAU, Thrissur, banana was damaged to the tune of 21% by the small-green barbet (Megalaima viridis). Covering branches with polythene cover or with dried banana trashes (especially leaves) gave encouraging results. RODENT CONTROL Rodent Damage Rodent damage to different crops at pre-harvest stage was lesser than last year. Wheat was observed to suffer 1.0-3.0% in Punjab; 5.8-7.3% in Himachal Pradesh and 4.0-5.68% in Gujarat during the year. Wheat near sugarcane fields experienced higher damage in Punjab. In arid areas, damage accounted for 12.7-17.4% at flowering stage. Damage to standing rice was 3.3-5.6% in Punjab and 5.4-8.2% in Himachal Pradesh. Among oilseeds, mustard recorded 11.3-14.9% plant damage by rodents and groundnut suffered to the tune of 3.9-6.4% of plants and 4.0-6.5 of pods. Rodents inflicted higher damage to cabbage heads (12.5%) than cauliflower (3.6-6.3%). Similarly pea and tomato experienced 5.5-8% and 2.2-7% damage in Himachal Pradesh. Nurseries of apple, peach, pecan, mango etc were more prone to rodent infestation, recording a damage of up to 15.6%, and the grown- up trees had damage of 1.5% on apple, 1.6% on pecan and 2.3% on plum tree at Solan. The bandicoots have been observed to hoard on an average 0.866 kg of wheat, 1.249 kg of rice and 1.06 kg of tomato in each of the burrow. Rodent Management Studies on resiliency management of rodents at Ludhiana indicated that alpha Chlorohydrin, a male sterilant, was able to cause sperm abnormalities and significantly reduce spermatogenic cells resulting in testicular necrosis in Indian gerbils, Tatera indica. Aluminium or GI sheet collars fixing on stems of mango and coconut trees saved fruit/nuts from rodent attack at Solan and Bangalore, respectively. Ripe apple fruits damaged by parakeets CROP IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 49 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS ACTIVITIES IN THE ICAR The IPR related activities in the ICAR include: (i) Protection of Intellectual Property Rights: Patents, (ii) Research collaboration, consultancy and contract research services vis-a-vis IPR, (iii) Subject-matter input for ICAR and inter- ministerial backstopping, (iv) Institutional capability and capacity strengthening, and (v) Linkages and participation. Protection of IPR Patenting of technology invented in the ICAR system is being done centrally.