 Value 268 251 371 582 Vitamin C 10.6 17.0 6.0 2.0 Vitamin B 1 0.26 0.41 0.36 0.21 Vitamin B 2 0.43 0.32 0.28 0.10 Fatty acid profile (% by wt) Lauric acid - - 0.5 - Myristic acid - - 0.5 - Palmitic acid - - 11.5 - Stearic acid - - 4.1 - Oleic acid - - 22.6 - Linoleic acid - - 54.1 - Linolenic acid - - 6.8 - adrenal stimulant, estrogen-like hormone qualities, stimulant; uplifting; refreshing; energizing. 4. Used to cure digestive problems like colitis, gastric spasms, flatulence, jaundice, stomach cramps, constipation, gastroenteritis, gum infections and mouth ulcers; ulcers, indigestion, sluggish liver and gallbladder. 5. Used for mild nervous disorders and for the alleviation of wandering rheumatic pains. The dried leaves, in the form of snuff, are said to be a cure for nervous headaches. Good for tired, overworked muscles and as a mouth-wash for mouth sores and infected gums. An infusion made with basil is good for chest and mosquitoes. The effective concentration of the oil to kill 90% of the larva ranged from 113 to 283 ppm. Camphor, d-limonene, myrcene, and thymol are some of the compounds in the oil that may provide the repellent properties. Eugenol and methylchavicol may be responsible for the larvicidal activity. Some published information can be found about the use of oil from Ocimum and fresh plant materials in the treatment of animals. However, O. basilicum has been used as an expectorant in animals. 3. The herbs are antiseptic, antidepressant, nerve tonic; antispasmodic, antiviral, balancing; clears the brain; diuretic; digestive, expectorant, antidepressant,  ETHNIC FOOD infections and digestive problems. Oil of basil is a wonderful treatment for acne. A drop of basil on pillow can help care insomnia and depression. Making a poultice of basil seeds aids in healing wounds because of their antibacterial properties. They are also said to cure warts. An infusion of the green herb in boiling water is good for all obstructions of the internal organs, arrests vomiting and allays nausea. CONCLUSION According to the disclosure of this ITK, bhaley is a very common traditional food item prepared from stone-ground local pulse mah (Phaseolus mungo) with addition of traditionally used spices (bhabri and jhau), salt, chilies and fried in vegetable oil. It is specifically prepared on festive occasions like Diwali, and birthdays throughout the Gopalpur and Karsog belt and adjoining areas of Mandi District, and is also useful in various ways. The claim made by the discloser is not only correct but this ITK has revealed many more facts about the medicinal value and nutritive properties of this food item. A review of the reports in the literature regarding medicinal properties of these herbs clearly indicated medicinal applicability, which is being practised by the local people.