 Keywords: sajja nune pole, poppy seeds Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur. Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) 3579 Preparation of korra pasham 3580 Preparation of taida ambali Korra pasham is a sweet dish made of foxtail millet. This is very nutritious food and is prepared by elders on new moon day. One kg of the cleaned millet is soaked in water for 30 min. and is boiled in 2 litres of water. One kg jaggery melted in water is added to the cooking mixture. Then dried and sliced coconut, aniseed and cardamom are added to it. This is good to eat with milk. Keywords: korra pasham, aniseed Taida ambali is made of fingermillet grains. Fingermillet contains calcium, phosphorus, iron and protein, required for the growth of children. Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 35X1 Preparation of taida atlu 3582 Preparation of taida nuilida 3583 Preparation of teepi bumdi Fingermillet is cleaned with water and dried in sun, and is roasted and ground. Some fingermillet flour is dissolved in water and is added to the boiling water. Then Vi kg melted jaggery, aniseed, poppy seeds and peanut are added and boiled for some more time. Now taida ambali is ready. Every 100 g of fingermillet contains 7.3 g protein, 0.344 g calcium and 3.9 g iron. Keywords: kaida ambali, aniseed, poppy seeds Taida atlu are sweet pancakes, made by adding 500 g jaggery to sufficient water and finger millet flour is added. This is made to a flow consistency. Then pancakes are put on a hot pan. Keywords: taida atlu, fingermillet, jaggery Taida malida is very nutritious food made by meshing fingermillet flour. Thin chapaties are made and are crushed into tiny bits. Then dry coconut, fried peanut, aniseed, puffed chickpea, cardamom and jaggery are powdered and are mixed with the chapati along with ghee. Keywords: taida malida, chapati Teepi bumdi is a sweet dish made of chickpea flour. The dough is kneaded with flour. Then the dough is put in the sameya instrument and sameya thus prepared are fried in the heated oil. When they are done hard, these are removed and put into jaggery syrup and mixed well. Then bumdi is ready. Keywords: teepi bumdi, sameya, syrup (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh). Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), district Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content ETHNIC FOOD Code No.