For increasing awareness in latest techniques and research in cutting edge areas, support was provided for student and faculty amenities/tours/capacity building and participation in seminars, symposia, workshops, trainings, etc. Overall personality development and leadership programmes with the support from the Council helped the students become better person and to grow as individuals. The hostel facilities for the students have been improved with support from the Council. Placement cells helped students obtain placement or advice on career. Support from the Council was also provided to AUs to take necessary initiatives so as to encourage holistic development of students through sports, self- defence, yoga, personality development talks by eminent people, through workshops, coaching and counselling for clearing competitive exams on all India basis, etc. Support under Schedule Tribe Component The support under STC was provided to Agricultural Universities during 2022-23 for agricultural and allied activities in the tribal areas. A total of 23 Agricultural Universities were supported under the Tribal sub-plan for carrying out the mandated activities for the tribal population. 93 Training/ Skill development/Capacity building programmes were conducted benefitting 3854 tribals; 2677 demonstrations (FLDs/ OFTs) were done to promote awareness and were attended by 2915 beneficiaries. 8 Awareness camp/Exhibitions/Exposure visits were organized. 17,500 kg of inputs were supplied to about 4987 beneficiaries in form of quality seeds, planting materials, seedlings for various fruits, vegetable, small farm equipment, piglets, goats, poultry birds, etc. were given to tribal farmers to help them initiate the means to improve their livelihood. Small equipment needed for establishing backyard poultry and other related to honey bee rearing were also distributed to about 8873 beneficiaries. All these activities benefitted 21,262 stakeholders. Support under Scheduled Caste Sub Plan (SCSP) The support under SCSP component was provided to 43 AUs. This is an umbrella strategy started in the fifth and sixth plan by the planning commission to ensure flow of targeted financial and physical benefits from all the general sectors of development for the benefit of Scheduled Castes. Under this component, a total ₹2318 lakh was released to agricultural universities located in 15 states during. The support was provided for training and capacity building programme, viz. tutorials, classes, personality development, and preparation of competitive classes, entrepreneurship development and awareness programmes, funds for providing print books and access of e-books and other resources to the scheduled caste beneficiaries at college/university level. For the purpose of imparting skill and entrepreneurship, 32 skill training centres were supported during the year.