 Chatterjee, Suseela Mathew and George Ninan Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 13 CIFTEQ® FucoTeaEx About the product l CIFTEQ® FucoTeaEx is a natural dietary supplement containing the goodness of Fucoidan from brown seaweed and green tea phenolics. l The supplement, which is a source of naturally available antioxidants, vitamins and minerals, is developed using a novel microencapsulation technology to enhance bioavailability. l The product is prepared using the principles of green chemistry, and the supplement is 100% organic solvent residue-free. Each capsule provides a minimum of 90 mg Fucoidan. l A novel enzymatic extraction technique is used which is followed by enrichment of Fucoidan using Ion exchange resins. l No harmful organic solvents are used for the production of the extract. l An equimolecular blend of fucoidan and green tea extract is formulated using a novel microencapsulation technique to improve stability and ease of delivery. l Several preclinical studies have shown that fucoidan has excellent anti- inflammatory, anti-diabetic, anti-cancer, and immune-modulating activities. l The preclinical study conducted in ICAR- CIFT showed that the product attenuates the effect of drug-induced myocardial infarction. Commercialization and availability l The product has been licensed to M/s. Bodinanaturals Pvt. Ltd., Kerala. The company has started production and will market the supplement under the trade name ‘Seavina’. l The company is promoting the product as a dietary supplement intended to manage cardiac health. 11. CIFTEQ® FucoTeaEx – Microencapsulated Dietary Supplement Compiled by: Niladri S. Chatterjee, Lekshmi R. G. Kumar and Suseela Mathew Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 14 CIFTEQ® Seaweed Nutridrink About the product l CIFTEQ® Seaweed Nutridrink is a reconstitutable formulation of seaweed (Sargassum wightii) and grape juice. The drink is rich in fucoidan, which has estab- lished health benefits. l The technology resulted in the value- addition of fruit juices and high-value utilization of seaweeds. l The Nutridrink is also a source of bioactive carotenoid fucoxanthin and seaweed polyphenols. l A 20% blend of seaweed extract with grape juice was microencapsulated to result in a reconstitutable powder. l The powder instantaneously solubilizes in water to provide the ‘Seaweed Nutridrink’. The microencapsulation process adds to the stability and ease of packaging of the product. l The Nutridrink possesses a significantly higher amount of Riboflavin and Pantothenic acid, and also appreciable quantities of Taurine, a free amino acid with known nutraceutical properties.