 Agriculture training centers such as Kisan Vikas Kendra (KVK) play a key role in disseminating agricultural knowledge, technologies, and information, as well as in linking farmers with other stakeholders in India. KVK, which frequently offers in-service training to public sector employees, training to farmers, and short courses on demand to people in public or private sectors in India, is a critical change agent in transforming traditional subsistence farming to modern commercial agri- culture to improve household food security, rise income, and reduce poverty (Jatav, 2022). At the national level of India, the statistical results of agriculture training are not promising, only 1.20% of farmers took agricultural training from KVKs, agri- cultural university, or India Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR)-institutes in 2019. (11) Tractor ownership. Modern farming developed through technological development such as tillage and harvesting machines, controlled irrigation, fertilizers, pesticides, crop breeding, genetics research, and biotechnological tools for trait improvement (Singh and Nayak, 2020). These innovation technologies help farmers dramatically increase yields of high-quality crops. At the national level of India, only 1.79% of farmers owned tractors in 2019, indicating that the development of modern farming still has a long way to go for India. 2.1.3. Indicators of social security The eight indicators of agricultural sustainability in social dimension, which form the social security index of this study, are as follows. (1) Literacy rate. Literacy enhances agricultural production by reducing information asymmetry, facilitating the ﬂow of social capital, and improving technical efﬁciency (Singh, 2020a). In the transformation of a rural economy to a non-farm oriented economy, investment in education would have high return, as the educated person stands to gain more (Jatav, 2022). In this context, we hypothesized a positive effect of literacy rate on agricultural sustainability. At the national level of India, 74.04% of Indians were literate in 2011. (2) Infant mortality rate (IMR). According to Ruttan (1992), health is a cause and effect of agricultural development. Infant mortality rate, which is a comprehensive variable that reﬂects the health of both child and mother, is a social outcome of the complex interaction of agricultural growth, food and nutritional security, availability of safe drinking water, and health care facilities. The IMR of children under 5 years old has shown a signiﬁcant reduction from 80 children per 1000 births in 1991 to 54 children per 1000 births in 2019. (3) Sex ratio. There is evidence that the traditional agriculture tends to prefer men over women, due to the physical power required for agricultural operation (Singh, 2020c). The sex ratio is inﬂuenced by several social and economic factors such as migration and labor participation in agriculture (Jatav and Singh, 2020).