 Indian agriculture has long been suffering from numerous limitations such as outdated approaches to cultivation, dependency on rains, small and scattered land holdings, low-slung productivity, and minimal funding. Declining investments over a period have been the singular primary concern on agricultural performance. Insufficient formation of new capital has decreased the pace of technological interventions and development of infrastructure with opposing consequences on the productivity of agriculture. Achieving sustainable growth has become overbearing, especially keeping in mind the need to cater to the rapidly increasing demand for food and fibre for the bustling populace. Thus, the unavoidable urgency towards boosting agricultural investment. Augmenting agricultural production on a maintainable basis gains even more credence in today’s unsure times of an ever-impending food crisis. 1.1 Investment in agriculture is primarily undertaken to achieve its potential by: a) enhancing natural resources b) increasing the effectiveness of utilizing prevailing resources c) stimulating value addition Generating capital through investment in agriculture improves the means and productivity of natural resources, which, accordingly, encourages farmers to productively utilize their resources like land and labour. Thus, creating capital is a necessity for increasing the productivity of existing resources and realizing their lasting growth capabilities. While energy contributes around 25% towards GHG (global greenhouse gas) emissions, AFOLU (Agriculture, Forestry, and Land Use) comes a close second at 21%. Agriculture remains vulnerable to climate change. AFOLU remains the leading source of livelihood for 58% of India’s total population and is one of the major Financing Sustainable Agriculture in India 213 contributors to global food security. Since independence, fertilisers and pesticides have been acknowledged as the main reasons behind the increase in farm yields; but these chemicals have proven to be harmful to soil health and groundwater, besides being a major cause for biodiversity loss. Thus, providing monetary support for transitioning to climate-resilient and sustainable agriculture is even more important. 2 Background – the constraints in up-scaling sustainable agriculture  Difficult to invest huge capital owing to small scale nature of operations;  Lack of structure for monitoring and evaluating the financial gains and impact consistently;  Farmers are aware of the benefits of sustainable agriculture to the environment; but not of self  Such projects are known to have long gestation periods, thereby making them a risky proposition. Banks are also hesitant to lend since the assets such as landholdings are not significant collateral.