 Cage cultured red snapper harvested in Uppunda, Karnataka (top) Rice seedling growth effected by endophytic PGPB. a. Swarna seedling growth in control (T0) and 2% salt stress along with 1.2×108 cells/ml (T1), 1.2 × 105 cells/ml (T2) and 1.2×108 cells/ml (T3) single treatment, and 1.2×105 cells/ml (T4) for 2nd treatment after 5d. Rice cv. Naveen treated with phosphate solubilizing PGPB, b. E1, c. R1. (bottom) Colonization of endophytic Azotobacter sp. Avi2 in rice cv. Swarna. a. At primary and secondary root junction of under SEM. b. Enlarged colony under SEM. c. FRET detected fluorescent bacteria in root under fluorescent microscope. d. Enlarged FRET detected endocolonizer Avi2. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 117 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT E-granth Under this project, Krishikosh is supported which is a digital repository which captures, preserves, archives and provides policy based access to the intellectual output of Indian National Agricultural Research and Education System (NARES). It is a unique repository of knowledge in agriculture and allied sciences. having collection of thesis, old and valuable books, institutional publications, technical bulletins, project reports, lectures, preprints, reprints, records and various documents spread all over the country. It is a customized digital repository platform for users of NARES Institutions, where they can upload and manage their own contents for compliance to open access policy of ICAR. Currently this digital repository (https://krishikosh.egranth.ac.in/) has more than 201,000 items. Direct benefit transfer (DBT) The direct benefit transfer (DBT) for 20 DARE/ ICAR components under various schemes is being done. During the year, data of 15,797 beneficiaries who were given ` 21,214.76 lakh under the different components was uploaded on the portal. The end to end digitization of DBT onboarded schemes of the DARE-ICAR was initiated. The figure depicts, fund Strengthened facilities at the Libraries ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 118 AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT distribution in top states, number of beneficiaries from top 5 states and male and female beneficiaries. Education portal/ NISAGENET Education portal-ICAR (https://education.icar.gov.in) was developed as a single window platform for providing vital education information/announcements/ event schedules/e-learning resources from agricultural universities across the country in an easy and fast way. This portal is being upgraded/ customized with incorporation of new functions, viz. unspent balance amount is reflected, generation of sanction letter for releasing fund instalment wise, sanction letters of various components are generated through this portal. GFR 12A and GFR 12C forms were developed and are being reflected on portal. Support is provided for creating USID and also in mapping of USID under current university/college for students whose USID already existing in other university/college.