 Attempts have been made to isolate pure culture from them and 21 cultures were deposited in the National Culture Bank at NRCM, Solan. These cultures are also maintained in the commercial AICRP lab. Commonly found pests were mushroom flies. Only mild to medium level infestation (5 to 20 %) were noticed. No disease could be noticed in any of the localities. The use of blue and yellow light traps in growing houses to ward off flies and observing complete hygienic conditions in and around the growing houses were recommended to tackle pest problem of the region. Transfer of Technology: Two TOT seminars conducted in the Centre in which both beginners and progressive mushroom cultivators from all over the state participated and they have expressed their experiences in the field of mushroom production. Training on mushroom cultivation was given to VHSE students, unemployed men, women, senior citizens, residents association members etc. More 5000 participants have attended the regular training conducted in the department during the period. 25,000 spawn have been distributed to farmers. The staff of the Centre have actively participated in seminars, mushroom melas, workshops and won prize in the recipe competition. The staff of the Centre has participated in the biennial meeting held in 2002, 2004 and 2006 and presented the report of work conducted in the Centre. A book on “Mushroom recipes” authored by Dr. Lulu Das, a scientist of the Centre was released in the 2002 meeting. One book in regional language was published by the Mushroom Growers Association of Kerala authored by Dr. B. Balakrishnan and Dr. Lulu Das. The scientists of the Centre participated in more than 100 seminars organized by various agencies in the region and presented papers. The staff of the Centre participated in Mushroom Growers meet and Mushroom Mela at TBGRI and exhibition arranged by the Centre. Technologies developed in the Centre: Following technologies were developed at the Centre: www.icar.org.in 63 2002‐2007 1) A suitable method of cultivation of Calocybe using the spent mushroom substrate of oyster mushroom has been developed in the Vellayani Centre. 2) A simple technique namely stapler method – a modified spawn production technique has been perfected. 3) A cultivation technique for Auricularia polytricha using mango wood chips as substrate has been standardized in the Centre. Horticulture and Agro forestry Research Project: Ranchi: Oyster mushroom (Pleurotus spp.): • The experiment was conducted for two years (2003 and 2004) with three species of Pleurotus viz, P. florida, P.sajor‐caju and P.ostreatus The data revealed that supplementation with wheat bran @2% enhanced the yield significantly in P. florida (48.3%), P sajor‐caju (44.9%) and in P. ostreatus (48.1%) over control. Based on above result it is recommended that wheat bran @2% (w/w) supplementation in the paddy–straw substrate may be used in cultivation of oyster mushroom for higher yield and profit.