 Addition of organic manure including green manure as well as zinc sulphate to the soil or growing crops like greengram and groundnut reduced arsenic availability and uptake while phosphate application, submergence and salinity increased it. BGA Anabena spp. has been found to absorb more arsenic from the medium indicating thereby its decontamination ability in the rice growing system particularly for the Boro rice. Leaching Requirement of Super Cyclone Affected Coastal Soils of Orissa Leaching requirements of three super cyclone affected coastal soils of Orissa showed that leaching with 2.50 pore volumes of water removed 96 per cent of total salts and brought down EC below 4 dS/m in 40 cm soil layer of Typic Haplaquept and Aeric Tropaquept, while the same amount of water removed 88% of total salts from Aeric Fluvaquent. To achieve the same level of desalinization, i.e. 96% in Aeric Fluvaquent, leaching with 3.00 pore volumes of water was necessary. Physio-chemical Analysis of Crop under Waterlogged Situation Five varieties of rice, viz. Panidhan, Lunishree, Tulasi, Sarala and Durga, were evaluated at Barang Village, Orissa under waterlogged conditions. The variety Lunishree and Durga showed early and better canopy development. At mature post heading stage most of the varieties among themselves did not show much variation. The chlorophyll content of the leaves were significantly higher in both variety Panidhan and Lunishree at 100 DAP to a duration up to 135 DAP. The net photosynthesis rate was lowest in variety Panidhan. In general Lunishree and Tulasi maintained very high CO2 fixation rate along with high internal CO2 concentration. The yield of Lunishree (4.37 tonnes/ha) was observed highest in all the dates of sowing alongwith good chlorophyll content, leaf area for longer duration and fairly higher tiller number compared to other varieties. The variety Durga and Tulasi were also found promising. Management of Diara Land, Assam Study has been conducted on the evaluation of five improved semi deep-water rice varieties during kharif season at five locations of Lakhimpur district in Assam to find out new plant type for deep water rice with high yield for drained environment. The local cultivars Borjahingia Laodubi and Kuhimari can be replaced by Padmanabh and Panindra (Local CVs) which topped the yield levels. Rice grain yield was observed highest (5.20 tonnes/ha) for JM 50 in Haribor Nahami and the lowest (2.00 tonnes/ha) for KDML 105 at Rangpuria in deep water rice varietal trial. Out of 3 toria varieties, viz. M 27, TS-36, and TS-38 tested under four dates of sowing conditions variety M-27 has registered the highest yield in late sown condition whereas TS 36 and TS 38 performed better in early sowing condition (0.925 to 0.945 tonne/ha). Toria yield was reduced by 60% under December sown condition irrespective of varieties, whereas straw mulch alone and in combination with cycocel spray conserved residual moisture with enhanced yield.