 Cowdung is preferred mostly for farmyard mannure compared to goat and sheep manure because the latter in large quantities leads to burning of crops due to the toxic effects of high levels of N (3%), P (1%) and K (2%) (Kinnaur, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 11 Organic manuring, collection and management The flocks of sheep and goats when taken for grazing are tied with small bags which cover their anal parts so that the excreta falls right into the bag and it is used as manure which contains 3% N, 1% P and 2% K (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 96 SOIL FERTILITY MANAGEMENT S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 12 Technique of uniform distribution of organic manure In Ladakh and other regions after every 7 steps taken by woman, 20-25 kg of organic manure is scattered in the fields. This technique aims at uniform distribution of organic manure. It is reported that the quantity of manure spread is optimum for the plot of land falling in the range of 7 steps taken by a woman (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 13 Nutrient recycling with ash, household waste and human excreta Mixing of ash with household waste and human excreta aids in nutrient availability and recycling. Ash primarily meets the deficiency of K and also ensures P availability. In addition human excreta and household waste have good amounts of N, P and K (Ladakh, Jammu and Kashmir). Verma (1998) 14 Recycling of organic matter by cattle grazing The matured cobs of sorghum and maize are harvested and the cattle are allowed to graze here and then leave their dung and urine in the grazing land. It increases the organic matter content of soil in next season (Amravati, Maharashtra). Anonymous (1999-2000c). 15 Compost preparation by use of Euphorbi Traditionally farmers allow the urine and dung of livestock to ferment in a pit and then use it as manure.A 10 × 10 sq. ft. pit is dug and filled with organic kitchen waste, dry grass and leaves. A 6 cm high pile of all these is made. Then about 50-100 kg of Euphorbia nerrifolia plants are cut in to small pices of about 1 foot length each, and layered inside the pit. Cow dung is spread over these pieces and during the monsoon, rain water is allowed to flow into the pit. Once again a layer of dry grass, Euphorbia nerrifolia pieces and cow dung is put in the pit. The manure is ready for use by the next year. This manure is especially useful for wheat crop (Punchmahal, Gujarat). Mundvada (1997) 16 Preparation of vermi compost Preparation of earthworm compost is being followed in several villages of Karnataka. A simple procedure of earthworm compost preparation involves construction of mud tank and allowing the farm waste to rot and get digested by earthworms. Farmers use cow dung to solve problem of red ants. Cow dung mixed with turmeric and neem cake is used to coat the floor and sides of the tank.