org/wed/theme water.asp#sthash.ki5vg3lB.dpuf Courtesy: United Nations Environment Programme website - http://www.unep.org/wed Indian Farming 21 June 2023 One health: Concept, scope and relevance B N Tripathi* and S B Barbuddhe Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi 110 001 Global changes are accelerated by population explosion, industrialization and geopolitical unrest, which harm biodiversity, deteriorate the ecosystems, and drastically increase human, and animal species migration. Infectious as well as non-infectious diseases emerge and re-emerge as a result of these rapid environmental changes. In response, a transdisciplinary approach among human, animal, plant and environmental health, described as One Health (OH), has gained support and visibility because of its capacity to synergistically address these challenges. One Health introduces a concept embedded in the philosophy of ‘co-existence’ in which every other living being (and inanimate objects like air, water and soil) influences the health of the fellow being. In today’s globalized world, no one discipline, or sector of society may have enough knowledge or resources to prevent the emergence or resurgence of threats like disease, deficiency, crisis, hazard, or disaster (DDCHD). Keywords: Diseases, One health, Zoonoses O NE health recognises the interconnection between human health, animal health and the ecosystem health, which became globally evident in the recent years with the emergence of infectious diseases, particularly zoonotic infections such as avian influenza, Ebola, Zika, monkeypox, and the latest COVID-19 pandemic. One health has recently been re-defined by the One Health High-Level Expert Panel (OHHLEP) as ‘an integrated, unifying approach that aims to sustainably balance and optimize the health of people, animals and ecosystems’. This concept admits that the health of humans, domestic and wild animals, plants and the wider environment (including ecosystems) are closely linked and interdependent. The approach mobilizes multiple sectors, disciplines and communities at varying levels of society to work together to foster well-being and tackle threats to health and ecosystems while addressing the collective need for clean and safe water, energy, air, nutritious food, taking action on climate change and contributing to sustainable development. No one sector can address issues at the animal-human- environment interface alone such as antimicrobial resistance, food security, biosafety, biosecurity and emerging, and re-emerging infectious diseases associated with changes in land use, population growth, urbanization, global travel and trade, and climate change. One Health approach offers a pragmatic solution to the present-day problems of the world, including the strategy to combat emerging public health issues.