 • Upgrading extensive scavenging systems to semi- intensive or small-scale intensive systems generally aims to benefit a few targeted smallholder producers, as these systems require a larger investment per household and relatively significant changes in resource allocation within the farming system. • Improving technologies in semi-intensive and small- scale intensive systems generally benefits selected targeted producers, as only a limited number have access to intensive systems, inputs, services (e.g., credit, veterinary services), and markets. Utilization of local genetic resources Rural poultry farming with native breeds is practiced in many developing and underdeveloped countries worldwide. Improved varieties and crosses of local birds with superior germplasm are well adapted to local agro-climatic conditions and should be incorporated into the farming system. Recognizing the importance of local germplasm, the Department of Animal Genetics and Breeding, under the All India Coordinated Research Project on Poultry, has developed a location- specific poultry variety, 'Himsamridhi,' suitable for hill farming systems. After conducting a baseline survey to understand local preferences for poultry varieties, 'Himsamridhi,' a location-specific chicken breed, was developed using Dahlem Red and Indigenous/native chickens, with 75% Dahlem Red and 25% native inheritance. These birds demonstrated comparatively better growth than native birds (Male 1.4-1.7 kg and Female 1.2-1.6 kg at 20 weeks; Male 2.0-2.4 kg and Female 1.5-1.7 kg at 40 weeks) in farmers’ flocks. Himsamridhi birds mature early (180 days) and lay larger eggs (50-55 g) with an annual egg production potential of 130-140 eggs per bird in farmers’ flocks and 160- 180 eggs per bird under farm rearing conditions. This variety is well adapted to local agro-climatic conditions and has been readily accepted by farmers as a preferred stock for backyard/rural poultry farming. Himsamridhi birds showed better egg production performance in village-level/backyard poultry management systems under free-range conditions. Improved performance was observed in Himsamridhi compared to native breeds in various growth and production traits. These findings are consistent with earlier crossbreeding programs using European breeds, such as the study by Sola-Ojo and Ayorind (2011), which reported that the Fulani ecotype of Nigeria and exotic egg-type chicken crossbreed outperformed the native Fulani ecotype. Similarly, improved performance of local Kei chickens by crossbreeding with Fayoumi and local Kei native chicken breeds is also documented. Economic assessment of LIT birds for backyard poultry: Case studies of 'Himsamridhi' Since the birds of the developed variety are similar to native birds in plumage colour but demonstrate better growth and production, they have significant potential to contribute to income enhancement for rural households involved in backyard poultry farming.