 It was suggested to consider the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] 26 Agenda 8.23: Provision for additional fund for Farmers Hostel at university headquarter JNKVV, Jabalpur required an additional fund of 60 lakh for completion and developing assets for the Farmers Hostel at university headquarter. It was suggested to consider the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 8.24: Provision for fund for Kisan Mela at KVK level JNKVV, Jabalpur mentioned that a provision of 2.0 lakh for each KVK be made to organize kisan mela. It was suggested to consider the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] Agenda 8.25: Staff Training Center JNKVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda emphasizing on a full flagged Staff training center as per recommendation of the Fourth’s Dean Committee at the university. It was suggested to propose a Central College in the XII Plan instead of having Staff Training Centre in each university. [Action: DDG (Edn.)] Agenda 8.26: ICAR making it mandatory for ICAR scientist getting involved in teaching activities of the SAUs. Publishing a list of ICAR scientist willing to take up teaching responsibility, with their field of specialization KAU, Thrissur presented the agenda. It was decided that the ICAR scientists may only help in guiding the students and the SAUs may approach ICAR institutes directly. [Action: All SAUs] Agenda 8.27: Placing PG students of SAUs for doing research work in the projects in ICAR institutes, in place of JRF/SRF. The ICAR scientist will be identified as Co- Chairman of the Advisory Committee of the student KAU, Thrissur presented the agenda. The proposal was agreed upon and the SAUs may approach ICAR institutes directly. [Action: All SAUs] Agenda 8.28: Establishment of Heritage Parks for conservation of native germ plasm KVAFSU, Bidar mentioned to take up selective breeding programmes for breed improvement and need to establish Heritage Parks to maintain elite animals of these breeds. Thus requesting the Council to provide funds for establishing two heritage parks one for Amrithmahal and Hallikar and the other for Deoni and Khillar breeds of cattle in Karnataka. It was suggested to consider the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Edn.)] Agenda 8.29: Centre for Entrepreneurship Programme in Tribal Areas of Madhya Pradesh for development of Herbal Products MPPCVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. It was suggested to take up the same in the XII Plan. [Action: DDG (Extn.)] 27 Agenda 8.30: Provision of short term research project OUAT, Bhubaneswar mentioned that after closure of NARP and decline in Plan Grants, most of the states could not support Zonal Research Stations and infrastructures created there, which was very much required and requested to strengthen them through ICAR funding. It was suggested to try the same in the XII Plan. [Action: ADG (PIM)] Agenda 8.