49%) and Manipur (49.01%). All land classes were benefitted by the KVK interventions. Landless category had the highest increase in income in the states of Ladakh (390.6%), Jharkhand (366.59%), Andhra Pradesh (342.97%) and Goa (303.02%). Marginal farmers realized increase in income up to 298.10% in Haryana. Marginal farmers in Uttarakhand, Chhattisgarh, Rajasthan and Assam also got increased income of more than 200 per cent. Small farmers in the states of Andaman and Nicobar Islands, Puducherry, Uttarakhand, Assam and Himachal Pradesh obtained maximum increase in income. The increase in income level was the highest for small farmers in Andaman and Nicobar Islands (273.86%). Large farmers recorded highest increase in income in Puducherry (405.26%) and West Bengal (377.39%). Very high levels of increase in income was also recorded by the large farmers in Arunachal Pradesh (274.95%), Maharashtra (234.38%), Jammu and Kashmir (218.75%) and Jharkhand (216.00%). The results reiterate the fact that doubling farmers income is possible across agricultural sectors, across the nation and across the land classes. Science and technology driven increase in income is a reality and could be pursued nation-wide with necessary back-up from administrative and policy support. xv INTRODUCTION In India, the early agricultural development strategies focused primarily on raising agricultural output for attaining food security. The announcement for doubling farmers’ income (DFI) by the Prime Minister of India on 28 February 2016, and its subsequent inclusion in the budget speech of the Union Finance Minister on 29 February 2016, propelled the momentum towards enhancing farmers’ income. Since then, doubling farmers’ income has been at the centre stage in the debates on agriculture. On 13 April 2016, the Government of India constituted a committee on DFI under the chair of Mr. Ashok Dalwai, Additional Secretary, Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare, Government of India. The Inter-Ministerial Committee examined issues related to farmers’ income, and submitted its report in September 2018 detailing strategies for doubling farmers’ income by 2022. It suggested a 7-point strategy: (i) enhancing production of crops and livestock through intensification; (ii) raising productivity through better management and irrigation; (iii) reducing cost of production through adoption of technologies and conventional practices; (iv) higher realization of net income through modern/ electronic marketing; (v) processing and value addition to farm produce; (vi) diversification into high-value crops; and (vii) adoption of supplementary agricultural/ non-agricultural enterprises backed by skill development programs. The government initiated several steps in this direction with a focus on intensification, diversification, shift from subsistence to commercialization and business orientation towards agro- based small-scale enterprises.