 The PRA and field survey results reveal that altitude of the area varies from 2,500 to 3,100 m above sea level and remains snow bound from October to April. Thus this area has a very short season for growing agricultural crops. To prolong the crop-growing season,it is essential to enhance early melting of snow, for which the farmers use ash. Spreading of ash over snow hastens the melting of snow and the fields are available for sowing at an earlier time of the year. The source of ash is mainly willow tree, which the farmers grow as a source of fuel, fodder and plant nutrient. Because of recent climate-warming phenomenon, there is reduced snowfall in the area, and this traditional technique of early melting of snow is now on the decline. Also, if only one crop is to be grown in a year in the area such as in Tinnam valley, there is also no need to spread ash for early melting of snow. Field survey results reveal that adding of ash advances snow melting by 8 days. Since wood ash is now available in limited quantity, its use is on the decline and it is being substituted by the addition of soil dug out from the same field. Farmers feel that ash is more efficient in early melting of snow than soil. In experiment I no change in temperature was observed each time. The observations revealed that the dissolution process is neither exothermic nor endothermic, meaning that the dissolution of ash in water neither generates heat nor absorbs heat. It may be due to the presence of oxides, which are insoluble in water. In experiment II (Figs. 1 to 3) the rate of melting of ice is much faster by sprinkling of ash as compared to natural melting of ice under similar conditions. The complete melting of ice Table 1. Observations during field survey and PRA Character Pattan valley Tinnan valley Gar valley Altitude (a.s.l. in m) <2,500 <3,000 <3,100 Snowfall occurence November–April October–May November–April Percentage of farmers using 20 70–80 (mostly soil not ash) 80 soil, soil/ash for snow melting 10 ash 10 nil Crops grown Potato, peas, hops, Peas Potato, peas, barley vegetables, and buckwheat Source of ash Willow trees Willow trees Willow trees Other uses of ash Snow melting near Snow melting near house Snow melting near house house Substitute of ash Soil Soil Soil CROPS AND CROPPING SYSTEMS  Fig. 1. Variation of melting of ice with time for 5 g ash Fig. 2. Variation of melting of ice with time for 10 g ash Fig. 3. Variation of melting of ice with time for 15 g ash by sprinkling ash on the surface of ice took 20 to 35 minutes per 1.5 kg ice less than the natural melting. It shows that the melting of ice can be hastened by sprinkling ash on the surface of ice. The faster melting may be due to slight by dark colour of ash, which absorbs heat more quickly, as the black bodies are good absorbers. The second reason may be the presence of small amounts of soluble salts, which lower the melting points of ice.