 DKMA organized and facilitated two exhibitions for showcasing ICAR technologies and publications namely Pusa Krishi Vigyan Mela, New Delhi and XV Agriculture Science Congress, BHU, Varanasi. Achieved the revenue of approximately ` 63 Lakhs from the sale of publications and e-products during the year. Social media To disseminate information in real-time, the ICAR Website is updated on a regular basis and in total 4,589 pages were updated, and a total of 4,577,864 page views from more than 200 countries were recorded. Knowledge seekers across the globe visited the Website. The top five countries visiting the Website included India, United States of America, United Kingdom, United Arab Emirates and Nepal. On ICAR Facebook page, a total of 430 posts were published during the year 2021, and it has 220,379 followers. ICAR Twitter handle has more than 160,132 followers. On an average, 3 tweets are posted every day, and a total of 1,013 tweets were posted during the year. The YouTube Channel of ICAR has Video Films, Animations, Lectures/Interviews by dignitaries and Eminent Scientists, Proceedings of National and International Events, etc. It has 63,300 subscribers. ICT Initiatives ICAR DARPAN Dashboard (https://icar.dashboard. nic.in/login.aspx): This provides centralized, easy-to- access platform for display and access of data from multiple sources. In this Dashboard, Manual/real time data on Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) is presented for selected Schemes/Projects in tabular as well as in graphical format. The information flow related to agricultural extension is being integrated in real time basis. The data and related graphs can be accessed at the lowest grain level in terms of location and time. Kisan Sarathi: In order to increase the penetration of agricultural technologies and two way effective communication with farmers, multi-media based multilingual ICT based communication system “Kisan Sarathi: An interface solution with farmers” has been launched on 93rd Foundation Day of Indian Council Agricultural Research jointly by the Honourable Ministers Shri Narendra Singh Tomar ji (Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare) and Shri Ashwini Vaishnawji (Information and Communication Technology), Government of India in the presence of Shri Parshottam Rupalaji, Minister for Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying and Shri Kailash Choudhary ji, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare and Smt Shobha Karandlaje ji, Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare. The ultimate goal of this project is to implement an intelligent online platform for supporting agriculture at local niche with national perspective. The project is intended to provide a seamless, multimedia, multi-ways connectivity to the farmers with the latest agricultural technologies, knowledge base and the pool of large number of subject matter experts.