 Scaling up technology and knowledge transfer is critical to support rainfed agriculture, focusing on water management, technology dissemination, and capacity building. ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture (CRIDA) has pioneered multiple projects, such as Farmer FIRST, Model villages, and National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), which demonstrate climate- resilient practices and adaptive technologies across India’s rainfed regions. However, scaling efforts encounter barriers like limited technical options, inadequate resources, and policy support. Digital platforms and collaborative efforts offer potential solutions to these challenges, facilitating wider knowledge dissemination and adoption. This article highlights ICAR-CRIDA’s experiences and the role of scaling in enhancing resilience in Indian agriculture Keywords: Dissemination, Farmer FIRST, Model villages, Scaling up I N India, rainfed agriculture occupy about 52% of net sown area, practiced in diverse agro-ecologies and contributes 40% of country’s food basket and dominant producer of millets, pulses, oilseeds and cotton. Despite the progress made so far, rainfed agriculture in India still encounters multiple risks and constraints relating to biophysical, socio-economic and policy related issues. The rainfed production systems in the country face challenges from the uneven spatial and temporal distribution of rainfall, increased extreme weather events, land degradation, and poor productivity. Additional factors like low input use, limited technology adoption, inadequate fodder availability, low-yielding livestock, resource-poor farmers, and limited credit access further reduce crop and livestock productivity in these regions Agricultural extension played a pivotal role for realizing the potential of farm sector against the widening demand–supply pressures, and for addressing sustainable, inclusive, and pro-poor development. Agricultural extension system in India, has been constantly scrutinized in the recent time because of the predominance of public sector extension as well Indian Farming 75 (01): 78-81; January 2025 as challenges in terms of efficiency and effectiveness in meeting its organizational goals and objectives. The agricultural extension has been delivered by diverse players and transformed from being public to pluralistic, top down to bottom up and being transfer of technology to broad-based and demand driven. In rainfed agriculture scenario, the technology transfer should entail more than just the transfer of inputs equipment and machinery; it also requires the transfer of knowledge and skills and the development of the capacity to use and adapt the technology. In this context, the scaling of information and technology is a suitable strategy to meet the wide range of objectives and target groups.