 NRC provided basic guidance about the meat business and hinged them in the 5 days’ entrepreneurship development training programme on value added meat and meat products processing. Soon after the training programme she conducted the market study and found her niche. Dr. Martina says “I worked ten years in Academics and learnt about business management and wrote many articles about women empowerment programmes. Nevertheless, I wanted to start my business in meat and meat products. On 18th August 2018, she signed MoU with NRC- meat. The centre for Agribusiness Incubation at NRC- meat has provided the hand-holding support and registered the firm under MSME as “M/s. Triusha Foods”. The firm has opened their outlet at Suchitra layout, a developing area near to Secunderabad, which was inaugurated by former MLA, Medchal. The firm has also hired 3 women employees on pay rolls. Currently, the firm is processing value added products such as Nuggets, Sausages, Burgers, Meat Balls etc. They are planning to start the fresh meat supply soon. Lazeez Eats Mr. Waseem Akther, an entrepreneur from Hyderabad has launched an innovative mobile app “Lazeez Eats” that allows customers to order chicken, mutton, seafood, exotic food, eggs and ready to eat items online. Lazeez Eats is a feature-rich and us e r- f r i e n d ly a p p l i c a t i o n which allows the customers to schedule their delivery date and time. Selling meat online is not new to Hyderabad, but what’s peculiar about Lazeez Eats is that the c o m p a n y completely source it products directly from the farmers, which is fresh and hygienically processed at their unit with technical guidance and support from ICAR-NRC on Meat. Furthermore, the company has complete control over the end to end supply chain and long term aim to change the meat buying experience for the consumer through a technology integrated platform and solve the issue of finding safe meat. Lazeez Eats was idea of Mr. Wasem Akther, a trainee of September 2018 batch of EDP conducted by NRCM on Value added meat and meat product processing. Lazeez Eats is the brand registered under Hyderabad based company Annum Agro Tech Pvt. Ltd which works in the field of agriculture and livestock production. The start-up delivers to selected locations at Hyderabad as of now on B2C and B2B revenue model. Mr. Waseem got inspired, while he was purchasing the meat from a local store by seeing the unhygienic way of handling and cutting the meat. He thought to start an enterprise that sells directly soured meat from their farmer network. Talking about the app at the launch event, Mr. Waseem said that, Lazeez eats value proposition is Halal meat delivered to home. The meat is hygienic, hormone-free, antibiotic-residue-free and chemical-free, which is completely processed at company owned unit and they do not source from any third party processors.