 The study also revealed that the main reason for decline of hilsa, is increased overfishing and altered flow regime. It was observed that 100 or 110 mm mesh gillnet for hilsa fishing should be followed for harvesting of fishes. Green fishing systems for the tropical seas: The designing, fabrication and construction of the 19.75m energy efficient fishing vessel, christened as ‘FV Sagar Harita’ has been completed at the Goa Shipyard Ltd. Long line and Gillnet multiday fishing operations for 4-5 days in the depth of 1,500-1,900 m were being carried out onboard the fishing vessel, operations from 24 stations for high sea gillnetting and 6 stations for long lining were conducted. The solar energy is used in meeting 20% of the energy needs onboard. Average diesel consumption was 42 litres/hr in deep sea experimental fishing operations. Low drag shrimp trawls (33 m head rope length) and fish trawls (27 m Harvesting of hilsa Hilsa growth in freshwater pond SUPPORTING BASIC AND STRATEGIC RESEARCH DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 144 head rope length) were developed by optimizing the cutting rate which helps in reduction of drag. The same operations in the commercial trawlers operated at Munambam and Vypeen of Kerala showed a reduction of fuel by 2.5%. Lactation stress associated postpartum anestrus SNP array in buffaloes: Biochemical and endocrine parameters revealed that high serum free fatty acids and low leptin levels are concerted negative energy balance (NEB) indicators in buffaloes. On the basis of these parameters, NEB was found to be confined to 1-1.5 months of postpartum in buffaloes. Liver and adipose tissue biopsies were collected from heifers and buffaloes, which calved later. A total of 509 and 332 significantly differentially expressed genes (DEG) were identified by NGS analysis in the liver and adipose tissues, respectively, between heifers and early lactation (15th and 30th day) buffaloes. Functional annotation and network analysis of DEG revealed that immune tolerance and insulin resistance are the major adaptive mechanism in the liver and adipose tissues respectively in buffaloes during early postpartum. Diversity and synthesis of immunoglobulins in the Indian major carps: Immunoglobulin IgZ and IgM expression has been analyzed in rohu and catla. TLR4 gene was cloned and characterized in rohu. The expression in various tissues including blood showed wide range of variations among the tested tissues. In response to LPS-stimulation and Gm-negative bacterial infection, activation of TLR-4, the signaling pathway was reported. The B-lymphocyte of rohu was purified from PBMC following panning with rohu specific anti- IgM and anti-IgZ antibody. Study on transcriptomic and proteomic expression profile of TLR2, TLR3, TLR4, TLR5 and downstream signaling molecules (MyD88, ERK, NF-kB, TNFá) and IgM and IgZ, indicated that both IgM and IgZ expression are regulated by PAMPs mediated TLR activation via ERK and NF-kB signaling pathway.