 Major reasons behind the imbalanced nutrient use were the low cost of nitrogenous fertilizer due to the fertilizer subsidy and farmer’s lack of awareness about the ill effects of unscientific use of fertilizers on soil health and environment. These nutrient management practices resulted in average crop yields of 1.5-1.8 tonnes/ha for soybean and 4.5-5.0 tonnes/ha for wheat. Since the income from crops and livestock insufficient to cover their family’s daily needs, Shri Santosh began offering custom hiring services of farm machinery in 2014, seeking to diversify his income streams and improve his family’s financial situation. Turning Point: Farmer FIRST Programme In 2016-17, the ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil Science, Bhopal selected four villages viz., Khamkheda, Kalyanpura, Kanchbavli, and Berupura in the Bhopal district of Madhya Pradesh to implement the Farmer FIRST programme (FFP) of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research. The pilot activities of FFP in the village cluster motivated Shri Santosh Meena to join the programme and he became a part of two modules i.e., Natural Resource Management (NRM) module and Enterprise module. Under the NRM module, he adopted conservation tillage practices (reduced tillage for soybean crop and zero tillage for wheat crop) and soil test based balanced nutrient application for soybean-wheat system on half acre of his land. At ICAR-IISS training on ‘waste management’ under the FFP activities, the farmer learned about vermicomposting as a way to recycle farm waste. Since Shri Santosh was also a part of the ‘enterprise module’ of the programme, he received two portable high-density polyethylene (HDPE) vermibeds and 1 kg earthworms. After the training, he began preparing vermicompost using cow dung and crop residue from his farm. Since cow dung was abundant on his farm, he primarily used it (70%) along with half- decomposed crop residue (30%) as raw materials for composting. This raw material combination along with filling of compost pits up to three-fourths of its height enabled completion of one vermicomposting cycle in 35- 40 days with an average production of 6 quintals per pit. Thus, he could produce around 60 quintals of compost annually through 5-6 cycles. Shri Santosh utilized more than half of the compost produced for kharif and rabi crops by replacing small amounts (20-25%) of chemical fertilizers and remaining for the vegetables and fruit plants of his farm. Over time, the farmer realized that using vermicompost not only reduced the input costs but also maintained crop yields even with reduced use of fertilizers, making his farming practices more sustainable and cost-effective. Due to the increasing incidences of climate change effects such as erratic rainfall, sporadic infestation of pests and diseases, the farmer was forced to replace the soybean crop with rice crop from 2019-20 kharif crop season (maintaining the 0.