 Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) approach integrates, and links diversified farm enterprises like crops, horticulture, livestock, and fisheries for enhancing the livelihood security especially of small and marginal farmers. IFS symbolizes the traditional way of life of farmers combining various crop and livestock production systems for risk and cost reduction along with year round supply of farm inputs, outputs for household consumption and income from marketable surplus. IFS in homestead farms is quite common in the tribal North Eastern Region. KVKs established location-specific integrated farming system demonstration units of different sizes at instructional farms in more than 380 districts. KVKs also extended support for establishment of 13735 IFS units by farmers and farm women across 29 states. In recent years, burning of paddy residue in Punjab, Haryana and Uttar Pradesh for sowing of succeeding wheat crop in the rabi season is in practice. This is not only responsible for environmental pollution but results in multiple ways of loss in terms of organic carbon, microbes and nutrients. The widespread, recurrent and unhealthy practice of stubble burning in the rice-wheat belt can only be combated with a massive campaign involving and educating all the stakeholders of society and creating an enabling environment to demonstrate alternatives for overcoming the problem of residue burning. To address this, a programme on Crop Residue Management (CRM) was initiated in these states through KVKs in collaboration with state departments of agriculture. KVKs took lead in building awareness against residue burning through the involvement of 60 KVKs in Punjab, Haryana and U.P. KVKs prepared robust action plans to create awareness among the farming community and also undertook capacity building of stakeholders and demonstration of suitable machines for in-situ management of paddy straw. A massive campaign against residue burning was launched by ICAR. An Information, Education and Communication (IEC) mechanism was built to reach out to farmers and farmers groups. KVK experts organized 525 hands-on training programs for 16,000 farmers, tractor owners and machine operators on management of crop residue. KVKs organized 24000 demonstrations on operating happy seeder machine and sowing wheat in standing stubbles. More than 400 field days and harvest days, 375 exposure visits to residue-burning free sites, 120 kisan melas covering a total of 6 lakh farmers were organized. Hon’ble Prime Minister recognized the contribution of Sh. Gurbachan Singh, farmer from Punjab for his unique initiative against residue burning in “Mann Ki Baat” (Episode 49, 28 October 2018) programme. Kalar Majri village near Nabha, Patiala was also recognized as Zero Stubble Burning Village. Impact of the campaign against residue burning is seen in the drastic reduction of burning fire events by 31% in 2018-19 and 52% in 2019 as compared to 2016.