 To cure the same in bullock, 250 g white onion is fed for a week, along with 'rati bhindi' or sesame (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Chauhan (1994a and 1994b) 50 Castor oil for control of intestinal parasites Castor oil, 50-70 g is fed to the animal successively for three to four days. After this treatment the feaces become loose and parasites are expelled (Baroda, Gujarat). Deepsingh (1992) 51 Prevention of indigestion This problem is commonly found in young calves. About half litre of castor oil is fed to calves so that the calves are made to pass the motion to clear their stomach. One hundred grams of rock salt, dry ginger powder, powder of Andrographis paniculata are mixed together and stored in bottle. This mixture is fed to the animal at regular intervals. Powdered ginger and pepper mixed with water is fed to the animal (Bangalore, Karnataka). Bhagya (1999) 193 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 52 Millipede for mastitis Most of the time, cows suffer from mastitis due to lack of hygiene. The infection also spreads, while milking with dirty hands. The farmers have a very unique solution to cure mastitis. During monsoon, the millipedes are found in plenty. These millipedes are dried and pounded. They are then made into a paste and applied on affected udders. The farmers believe that this decreases the swelling in the udders (Himachal Pradesh). Chowdhary and Dass (1999) 53 Vitex negundo to treat mastitis To treat mastitis roots of nagod (V. negundo) are used. About 100 ml of juice is extracted by grinding root or bark of nagod. The extracted juice is diluted with water and applied twice a day for four days on the sore of the udder (Bharuch, Gujarat). Vasava (2000-2001a) 54 Treatment of scratches on udder by ash of coconut After washing the udder with alum water, a paste of crushed leaves of tont (Pysalis minia) is placed on udder and paste is replaced once in day. This practice is done for 2 days (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Patel (1994e) 55 Treatment of tunka (a type of mastitis) by Pysalis minia Sterile flowers of mango (Mangifera indica) are grinded and pasted around the udder with a little addition of common salt (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 56 Treatment of tunka (a type of mastitis) by sterile mango flowers Sterile flowers of mango (Mangifera indica) are grinded and pasted around the udder with a little addition of common salt (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 57 Treatment for swelling of the udder smearing juice of Nakti Any cattle particularly cows or buffaloes when affected with mastitis show a remarkable (Mastitis) by decrease in milk production. The production of milk decreases by about 30%. This bacterial disease is usually caused due to any injury on the teats. The teats and udder are hardened, swollen and feel hot to touch especially while milking. On milking, a sticky watery fluid or pus comes out.