 The similarity index for ITS, gpd, LSU, and D1 and D2 region of LSU sequences of E29 showed high similarity with isolates of C. geniculata: 99.81% with MH856584 (CBS187.50), 99.52% with KM083609 (CBS187.50), 100% with MH868092 (CBS187.50), and 100% with MH868533 (CBS220.52), respectively. Pathogenicity of the isolate E29 was confirmed by inoculating 25 days old maize cv. Kanchan (n = 10) with a spore suspension (106 spores/ml) prepared from 15 days old cultures. After 10 days, elliptical spots with chlorotic halo were observed on inoculated plants similar to those observed in the field, but no symptoms developed on noninoculated plants. The disease appears not to be yield limiting and anecdotal evidence suggests that maize hybrids may differ in susceptibility. To our knowledge, this is the first report of leaf spot of maize caused by C. geniculata in India, which extends the known agents of maize-leaf spot. Improved extraction protocol of neem azadirachtinoids: Novel bench-scale knowhow of green process of extraction of azadirachtin concentrate from neem-seed kernel (NSK) (32 to 38% purity) has been developed. The process of its protection under patent is being pursued. This accomplishment holds significance from commercial angle as currently industry has process for extraction of 20% purity and one with higher purity available in industry has to use hazardous solvents. The quantification of azadirachtinoids was carried out using UPLC-QTOF-ESI-MS which showed separation of Aza- A, B and H in UPLC with respective characteristic molecular ion peaks. Further ultrasonic assisted extraction method was optimized to sequentially separate maximum content of neem oil and azadirachtinoids using response surface methodology (RSM). Major meliacins present in neem oil were characterized as nimbin, desacetylnimbin, salannin and desacetylsalannin. Sequential extraction method developed for extraction of neem oil and azadirachtinoids will prove helpful for neem oil and biopesticide industry in better utilization of NSK as a valuable resource. Microbial formulations for biofortification of wheat grains with Fe and Zn: A detailed study was carried out to isolate and identify efficient bacterial endophytes for wheat to further enhance the genetic potential of low accumulating wheat genotype for uptake and translocation of iron and zinc in plant parts and grains. Plant microbe interaction studies conducted in deficient soils and using genotypes identified as low accumulator for zinc or iron revealed that isolates DS-178 and DS- 179 were more potent for zinc acquisition, whereas endophytes DS-68 and DS-163 were efficient for iron acquisition in grains. All the four endophytes showed IAA production, siderophore production, phosphorus solubilisation and ammonia production ability. On the basis of 16S rRNA gene sequencing these four endophytes were identified as Bacillus subtilis DS-178 and Arthrobacter sp.