 Roti quality sorghum is also used for other purposes like RSSGV 46 (hurda purpose), RPASV 3 (papad making), SMJ 1, RSJ 1, PKV Ashwini (hurda purpose), AKJ 1 (flaking purpose), Phule Panchami, KMJ 1 (popping purpose) etc. Strategies to address the major constraints • Diversification of CMS base and R lines for increased heterosis through use of genetic diversification involving multi-parent (MAGIC) crosses, diverse germplasm lines (durra race genes from Yemen, Cameroon, Ethiopia) are required. • Breed for dwarf CMS (100–120 cm) and medium tall restorers (150 cm): Bringing major dwarfing genes and earliness using proper donors into A/B and R lines for making hybrids less lodging, easy harvesting and amenable crop mechanical harvesting. The change in plant architecture is expected to increase heterosis levels in hybrids • Rabi adapted and high input responsive hybrids for irrigated conditions: In recent times, with the availability of irrigation water in command areas, there is growing interest in cultivation of rabi sorghum. Hybrids which are responsive to high inputs need to be developed for these niche areas on a mission mode approach. • Incorporate stay-green trait in varieties and parents of hybrids (CMS and restorers): Among biotic stresses drought is the main production constraint in rabi sorghum. Though sorghum has drought tolerance, post-flowering drought causes extensive yield losses to the crop. Major QTLs contributing towards stay green trait has been identified and are being attempted to be transferred to superior cultivars. Crossing between high yielding adapted lines and screening under stress situation has yielded release of several rabi adapted cultivars both at state and central level. Marker assisted breeding has been followed to incorporate two key stay-green QTL (stg3a and stg3b) into rabi genotypes. Preliminary analysis of trials conducted at Hyderabad, Solapur and Vijayapura, indicated significant improvement in water extraction ability and Transpiration efficiency of MAS products compared to the recurrent parents. Incorporation of QTLs also improved grain and fodder yield over recurrent parents. The results are encouraging to transfer the QTL into other recent releases like CSV29R, CSV26R and in M35-1. CSH39R-Rabi sorghum hybrid CSV29R-Rabi sorghum variety in farmers’ field Forage sorghum Forage sorghum is cultivated in about 2.6 to 3.0 million ha area in India each year. They are principally cultivated in Punjab, Haryana, Delhi, western and central Uttar Pradesh, northern Madhya Pradesh, Parts of Telangana, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka. In these states, it is grown during kharif and summer seasons, either as single-cut (mostly in kharif, as rainfed) or as a multi-cut (summer and kharif) forage crop.