 The working principle of the system is to give direct and well uniformly mixed fertilizers with the irrigation water itself in a more frequent manner. A developed fertigation system for the GI polyhouse and Bamboo polyhouse of the Centre mainly consists of water tanks of a capacity of 1500 litres, pressure gauges, screen filters, irrigation pumps, three small containers for the storage of stock solutions and other fitting accessories. The fertigation system (three stages) includes: • Deciding the fertilizer quantities using the specially developed nutrient management calculator, • Preparation of three stock solutions and, • Mixing of fertilizer stock solutions with the water in the supply tank as per daily requirements of the crop. The procedure for giving fertigation • Calculate the fertilizer requirement of the crop by using a nutrient management calculator which has been developed by the Centre. • Prepare the stock solutions according to the requirements of the crop in three different small- size plastic containers. • Fill the large-size supply tank with water which is enough for one day of irrigation considering the crop stage and the season. • Add stock solutions considering the water quantity into the supply tank and mix them with the help of a stirrer. • Start the irrigation motor (here, a 1.5 hp Monoblock pump is used). • An irrigation motor will supply the fertilizer solution from the supply tank and through the irrigation pipelines to the individual crop entities. • Fertilizers will distribute equally to each plant of each row. Advantages of developed cost-effective three stage fertigation system over the existing fertigation systems • Uniform mixing of water- soluble fertilizers is possible well before the fertigation. • All plants get an equal concentration of fertilizers; so that uniform growth is found throughout the crop field. • No need to give separate fertilizers. • Elimination of errors in making a pressure differential, negative suction, dosing, injecting, etc. which causes uneven distribution of fertilizers throughout the field. • The system is totally cost- effective as there is no use of any expensive item. • The system is user-friendly; so that less skilled person can also operate it. • Considering the accessibility to the material, maintenance and efficiency; it is one of the best solution to give irrigation cum fertigation. • Saving of irrigation water and fertilizers. General guidelines while giving fertigation using three stage fertigation system • Stock solutions should be prepared in three different tanks; so that calcium and phosphates or sulfates containing fertilizers should not mix.