 Sharma, ADG (EPD) apprised the house about the status of the release of the 7 ICAR grants and requested that the Universities must comply with the submission of documents and annual reports on time. The 11universities which had not submitted their AUCs were requested to submit the same within the fortnight. The expenditure may also be closely monitored by the VCs and unspent amount be intimated at the earliest. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 3.2: Decision regarding the Niche Area of Excellence Programme The universities were informed that to monitor the progress of the Niche Area of Excellence (NAE) programmes the internal review committees have been formulated and these committees may submit the report before the next annual review meeting. The universities not having NAE were requested to submit the suitable proposals as per the guidelines. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 3.3 Organization of the Agri-sports and Agri-unifest in the year 2014-15 The BSKV, Dapoli and NDRI, Karnal volunteered to host XVI Agrisports and XV Agriunifest, respectively, for the year 2014-15. It was also agreed that the Deemed Universities may also participate in these events. The Agri-unifest should include an item of debate on key issues. It was also agreed to make the zonal sports more effective with the operationalization of the zonal sports complexes. [Action: VC, BSKVV, Dapoli & VC & Dir. NDRI, Karnal] Agenda 3.4: Uploading the data on NISAGENET It was emphasized that nodal officers appointed by the universities must ensure proper up-dation of the data on NISAGENET. It was informed by ADG (EPD) that many universities were not regular in updating the site. Registrar may be appointed as Nodal officer and all the newly formed AUs may also appoint nodal officers and data be uploaded on the NISAGENET. The up- dation of data be made quarterly. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 3.5: Implementation of the Best Teacher Award scheme It was informed by the ADG (EPD) that universities which are yet to utilize the provision of the scheme must utilize the same as per guidelines. [Action: All VCs] Agenda 3.6 and 3.7: XII Plan Initiatives and Revised guidelines for new civil works. ADG (EPD) outlined the new initiatives of the XII Plan and stressed that it was essential to have 8 uniformity in the civil works being granted to various universities under the scheme. The universities were informed about the new guidelines regarding various civil works so that the uniformity in cost and works may be achieved. It was also stressed that all the universities must incorporate the concept of green buildings for all the new civil works sanctioned by the Council. The guidelines will be uploaded on the website. [Action: All VCs: ADG (EPD)] Agenda 4: Agenda from the Universities (Related to EPD) Agenda 4.1: Financial assistance to establish and maintenance of Gene Bank The financial assistance was not agreed. However, it was suggested that necessary action may be initiated by the university at its own level.