 The rural energy situation at present is also characterized by a low quality of fuel, low energy use efficiency and low reliability of supply leading to lower productivity of land, water and labour, ultimately leading to poor quality of life and environmental degradation. Thus access to quality, reliable and affordable energy is very much essential for promoting economic and social development in rural areas. Gandhiji wanted to use the resources of a village in that village itself. The energy should be generated using the energy resources available at the village and the generated energy should be used by the residents of that village. Gandhiji had firm belief in self-sufficiency and self-reliance of rural India. His dream was to see each and every farmer and villager working for all round development of village and nation. All rural people should get the proper work and substantial money for their livelihood. The essential facility should reach to the villagers and if possible, to be managed by villagers. The dependency of rural area to the urban area and industries should be as low as possible. The resources available in the villages should be adequately managed, engaged and channelized to give employment to rural mass specially covering the rural youth and women. 108 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Agro-based industries can prosper in rural India where manpower is abundant and labour cost is also low. Developing agri-enterprises can immensely benefit the rural economy by generating employment opportunities, reducing the burden on agriculture, reducing the need for migration from rural to urban areas, and increasing the individual and national income in rural areas. The objective of this chapter is to highlight some of the agricultural waste based technologies developed by ICAR-CIAE for rural entrepreneurship development. 2. Gandhian basics of rural development and its link with small enterprises and waste management Mahatma Gandhi had a very clear perception on villages and made an assertive statement that “India lives in her seven and half lakhs of villages’. He believed that the progress of the country lies in the development of the majority of its rural sector through development of skills of rural people and rural industrialization. Gandhiji found the only way of improving the livelihood of the rural people is by making villages as the central place in the economic programmes. Rural development as outlined by Gandhiji contained self-sufficiency, inter-dependence for other wants and development of rural industries. The Gandhian strategy of rural reconstruction was based on village Swaraj and Swadeshi movement. Agriculture was given prime importance in Gandhiji’s conception of Swaraj. He desired that policies would help strengthen agriculture and establish cottage industries for production of goods essential for the people.