 Crop insurance can also influence crop yield through its feedback on farmers’ decisions regarding the adoption of improved technologies, inputs, and agronomic measures. The productivity and risk benefits of crop insurance and irrigation were estimated in terms of their average treatment effects (ATTs), applying the Multinomial Endogenous Switching Regression to the data extracted from the Situation Assessment Survey of Agricultural Households conducted by the National Sample Survey Office (NSSO) of the Government of India in 2012-13. Both crop insurance and irrigation positively impact farm productivity, but their gains differ significantly. The productivity gains from crop insurance are much less compared to that of irrigation, but these magnify when both are used in conjunction. Likewise, both the measures reduce variability in farm income, but the effect of irrigation is twice that of crop insurance, and much larger in case of their joint adoption. Skewness is a better measure of risk; and a positive skewness means lower probability of crop failure. The risk benefits from using irrigation are almost twice of that from crop insurance, and the payoff is larger to their joint adoption. Nevertheless, the benefits of crop insurance and irrigation differ across rainfall regimes. At higher rainfall levels, crop insurance is as effective as irrigation. Conversely, the gains from irrigation far outweigh the gains from crop insurance at lower rainfall. The key implication is that to make crop insurance a substitute of irrigation, there is a need for considering the risk benefits of irrigation while pricing the insurance products. Structural changes in rural employment: The structure of rural employment is undergoing a change. In 1972-73, about 86% of the rural workforce was engaged in agriculture. With economic development in general and rural development in particular, the rural employment started diversifying in the early 1990s; the share of agriculture in the rural workforce declined to 78%. The pace of employment diversification accelerated thereafter and between 1993-94 and 2004-05 employment in non-agricultural activities grew much faster than in agriculture. Interestingly, the agricultural workforce declined by about 34 million between 2004-05 and 2011-12. On the other hand, 28 million workers icar annual report 2022-23 160 show that groundwater resources cannot sustain further increase in gross cropped area. Under the existing water policy regime, optimal allocation of resources (land and water) to crops has limited scope to reduce area under rice and check groundwater depletion. Notable shift in cropping patterns will take place when a volumetric and differential water pricing policy is adopted. Area under rice will reduce by 23%, while area of maize and oilseeds will increase significantly.