 CITRUS Under the clonal selection programme, 20 plants of Nagpur mandarin, 2 clones of acid lime from Aurangabad and 2 clones of sweet orange ‘Mosambi’ from Jalna were selected. Citrus rootstock hybrids, CRH 12, CRH 57 and CH 47, were resistant to Phytophthora and citrus nematodes and CRH 57 and CRH 12 were tolerant to drought. In acid lime, hybrid Rasraj was tolerant to bacterial canker disease. Sweet orange, Selection 2 and Selection 4, at Rahuri, Nadimpalle at Tirupati, Nagpur mandarin and Kagzi lime local at Akola and nucellar mosambi at Rahuri were promising. At Tinsukia, rootstock Volkamariana was superior for Khasi mandarin. Plant spacing at 6 m × 3 m (555 plants/ha) was found ideal for higher yield of Nagpur mandarin in 13 years old trees at Akola and 12 years old trees of acid lime at Rahuri. Application of glyphosphata (2 kg/ha) followed by Gramaxone (1.8 litre/ ha) recorded higher weed control efficiency of 66.7% under Periyakulam conditions. Application of copper oxychloride (0.3%) or carbendazim (0.1%) in combination with 2, 4-D (10 ppm) or NAA (30 ppm) was effective in retaining 70–75% fruits in Kinnow at Ludhiana. l Three new Musa species have been identified. DISEASE MANAGEMENT IN BANANA Dipping paired suckers in monocrotophos (0.75%) before planting followed by drenching with Bordeaux mixture (1%) twice at fortnightly intervals gave effective control to Rhizome rot at Kannara. Dipping the suckers in chlorpyriphos (0.5%) followed by two sprays of chlorpyriphos (0.5) was effective in controlling pseudostem weevil. IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT OF HORTICULTURAL CROPS 55 METWIN 2 SOFTWARE Software, METWIN 2, was found to be good gadget for forecasting downy mildew in grape. Four sprays of fungicides could be saved in the season as compared to total 18 fungicidal sprays given in the control block. The software was found to be useful in disease management to decide an appropriate spray time. Efforts were initiated to work out various causal factors responsible for better orchard efficiency. Mycorrhizae were observed to be highly effective in low fertility and coarse-textured soils. Mycorrhizal trees had better plant growth, and uptake of nutrients. Inoculation of soil with mycorrhiza also helped in regulating the water relations and carbohydrate metabolism of citrus trees. Phosphorus nutrition of mycorrhized citrus trees improved using rockphosphate as a source of P than any other source. Technique has been standardized of in-vitro shoot tip grafting in Nagpur mandarins to eliminate virus and virus like diseases. Technique of double grafting was also standardized for transfer of in vitro STG plants. For integrated management of insect pests and diseases, a mass-multiplication technique of polyphagous predator of citrus blackfly and other soft-bodied insect pests has been standardized and successfully tested in the field. Spraying of monocrotophos (0.05%) or fenvalerate (0.01%) or neem oil (1%) or acephate (0.05%) or ethion (0.