40%) followed by EHV-1 (7.80%), JE/WNV (7.40%), and Trypanosoma evansi (2.15%). Stallion seminal plasma proteins were profiled and the proteins and pathways associated with sperm motility were identified. Purification, molecular characterization and ligand binding properties of the major donkey seminal plasma protein (DSP-1) isolated from donkey (Equus hemionus) seminal plasma was done. Transgenic chickens were produced through sperm mediated gene transfer (SMGT) method with an efficiency of 5.4%. In the transgenic birds, human interferon alpha 2b gene was introduced at the germ line stage in the chicken genome. The transgenic hens laid 132 eggs with an average content of 30-40 mg of interferon alpha 2b protein in each egg. Characterization of colostrum of native cattle and yak of high-altitude region of Leh-Ladakh was done in comparison to Sahiwal (SAC). Samples from LSD suspected outbreaks in 20 States/UTs of the country were tested to identify laboratory confirmed cases of LSDV infection for undertaking prevention and control measures against LSD in India. A total 2,456 bovine (cattle and buffalo) samples were tested, of which 1,156 cattle samples from 19 States/UTs tested positive for LSDV. First whole genome analysis of Indian African swine fever viruses revealed potential genetic determinants to differentiate closely related ASFV circulating in Asia. Global alignment of the complete genome sequences showed nucleotide identity of 99.96% amongst the two Indian isolates (IND/AS/ SD-02/2020 and IND/AR/SD-61/2020). The results showed the importance of the 14 ORFs in understanding the evolution of ASFV in Asian countries and their divergence from prototype ASFV Georgia/2007. Whole Genome Sequencing of 12 Bovine coronaviruses isolated from cow (3) and buffalo (9) nasal and faecal samples collected in 2020-21 revealed two different subgroups: subgroup GIa having 9 viruses cluster from across the world and GIb subgroup having 3 other viruse cluster which has majorly the isolates of France in 2017. A food-grade meat decontaminant spray was developed by using the extracts of Ashwagandha roots and Guava leaf spray which could reduce the microbial load many folds in retail fresh chicken. Phytochemicals (thymol and cinnamaldehyde) conjugated silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) were tested for their efficacy against Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) and non- typhoidal Salmonella. Assays revealed the antimicrobial activity of the encapsulated compounds (EAgC and EAgT) and appeared to be safe. Fisheries Management: A web-GIS application for location-specific riverine fisheries management was developed. It provides an interactive and user-friendly interface which contains environmental data of 300 sampling stations covering 20 major rivers of India. The portal’s database and customized reports will facilitate various researchers, planners and policymakers to make judicious planning/strategies for the betterment of fisheries resources.