 Besides, these millets provide raw materials for agro industries such as poultry and cattle feed, value added products, potable alcohol, starch, bio fuel etc., Nevertheless, with the exception of maize, area under millets has drastically reduced and yield also considerably declined. Maize The area, production and productivity trend under maize crop in major districts of Tamil Nadu is presented in Table 2 Maize crop is cultivated in 19 districts with an average area of 2.53 lakh ha with a production of 11.86 lakh tonnes and the productivity is about 4,635 kg/ha. With reference to area, 16 districts of the State experienced positive growth, while three districts viz., Coimbatore, Tiruppur and Vellore had shown negative trend. Similarly, in production, all the 19 districts witnessed positive growth. The productivity of the crop witnessed an upward trend in 18 districts and only in Cuddalore district, the productivity declined. Thus, an increasing growth rates in area, production and productivity are quite perceptible in majority of the districts where maize is cultivated. Maize is thus one of the important crops introduced for crop diversification in Tamil 502 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Nadu State. Moreover, the growing poultry feed industry keeps demanding maize, as it is an important ingredient in feed mix. Sorghum The compound growth rate of sorghum in major districts of Tamil Nadu is presented in Table 3. Sorghum is grown in 22 districts in the State with an area of 2,44,408 ha, production of 2,36,547 tonnes and productivity of 984 kg/ha. The growth rate of area was positive only in two districts viz., Thoothukudi and Virudhunagar. Similarly, the production was positive in seven districts viz., Karur, Krishnagiri, Ramanathapuram, Theni, Thoothukudi, Tiruppur and Virudhunagar, whereas the productivity recorded positive in almost all the districts with the exception of Ariyalur, Madurai, Namakkal, Salem, Thiruvallur, Trichy and Vellore districts. Thus, the negative trend in majority of the districts is seen. Due to changing purchasing power and food habits, the consumption of sorghum has declined in majority of small farmer / labor households. One of the important crops that replaced sorghum is maize. Bajra Bajra is an important millet crop grown in 10 districts in the State with an area of 53,409 ha, production of 88,866 tonnes and productivity of 1,691 kg/ha. The promotion of bajra crop in Tamil Nadu requires a thorough planning to increase area and production through input supplies, management practices, capacity building and special programmes, as this crop has got food value in terms of nutrition. Ragi Ragi is yet another agricultural crop that comes under minor millet cultivated as a major food staple crop and for its nutritive value mostly in Dharmapuri, Erode, Krishnagiri, Perambalur and Vellore districts with an average area of 84,914 ha, production of 1,80,557 tonnes and productivity of 2,140 kg/ha.