 Verma (1998) 34 Traditional rainfed farming for soil conservation by cultivating close growing crops The traditional rainfed farming is done irrespective of land with respect to slope and other characteristics. During rainy season there are chances of sheet erosion but with traditional knowledge, crop rotation is adopted in such way that during peak runoff period sowing of close growing crops provide protection to the soil. The crops are choosen as per their nutritiive value (protein rich pulses and also coarse grains like Phaphra and Chulai) (Valley regions, western Himalayas). Verma (1998) 35 Establishment of localized greenhouse conditions in grape cultivation Grapes are cultivated in the Nubra valley by regulating the temperature of basins using local stone (brick), grasses, warm clothes, gunny bags or wooden baskets. Grapes are grown only in sunny niches. Pits are filled with locally found stone, grasses and soil. The white brick pieces help in warming the otherwise cool sandy soils in the basin. Grape vines are covered with warm clothes or gunny bags or wooden baskets to shield them against the cold and animal attacks especially during the initial two years (Nubra Valley, Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 36 Plantation of potato crop on sloppy lands Practice along-the-slope plantation of rainy season (kharif) potato gives more yield in comparison to across- the-slope plantation (Orissa). Parasar (1994) 25 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 37 Pagadi planting in finger millet Fingermillet seedlings are transplanted at equidistant spacing of 22.5 × 22.5 cm under rainfed conditions to ensure vigorous growth and high yield and also to facilitate intercultivation in both directions, conserve moisture, control weeds and to enhance tillering leading to higher yields, especially during drought years (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 38 Sowing of rabi sorghum after first three days of Lokhandi Charan of Hasta Nakshatra to avoid seedling damage due to high intensity rain The recommendation for sowing of rabi sorghum in second fortnight of September. In some areas farmers sow rabi sorghum during last week of September to first week of October. The intensity of Hasta Nakshatra in Lokhandi Charan (first 3 days) which generally occurs during last week of September is high. Due to impact of high intensity rains, the splashing of soil particles takes place which jam the growing shoots of sorghum seedlings. At the point where soil particles jam, the process of decaying starts and seedlings die on large scale (Solapur, Maharashtra). Anonymous (2000d) 39 Compact block cultivation to avoid bird damage It is adopted by the farmers by sowing crops like sorghum, maize and pearl millet in compact area at the same time by the concerned farmers to thinly distribute the bird damage besides making it easier to carryout scaring of birds/parasites (Rayalaseema and coastal uplands of Andhra Pradesh).