 The inaugural session was graced by Hon’ble MoS, Ministry of Transport and Ministry of Civil Aviation General (Rtd.) V K Singh. Major areas of discussion during MACS 2023 Food Security and Nutrition: Role of Science, Technology and Innovations Digital Agricutlre Traceability and Food Loss and Waste MACS 2023 Sustainable Agriculture and Food System for Health People and Planet Millets And Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) Resilient Agri-Food Systems One Health and Climate Resilient Agriculture Public-Private Partnsehip for Agri R&D Inaugural address by Hon’ble V K Singh MoS Ministry of Transport and Civil Aviation Indian Farming 6 June 2023 The key issues that were focussed for scientific deliberations and seeking interventions from the G20 countries, invited guests and international organizations were: Food security and nutrition: Frontiers in science and technology The fragilities in our agriculture and food systems became apparent during COVID-19 pandemic and led to increase in hunger, food insecurity and malnutrition. The number of hunger affected people increased by about 150 million post Covid-19 pandemic. The science, technology and innovation (STI) are potential components of evidence-based decision-making for transforming agrifood systems and a key means of implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The UN Food Systems Summit (UNFSS) 2021 has also emphasised the need to invest in science and innovation for the SDGs. The landscape of science and innovation is continuously evolving. The G20 MACS focussed discussions on how science, technology and innovation can contribute and provide innovative solutions to achieve the food security and nutrition. The Members emphasized the need for coordinated actions for sharing scientific knowledge and effective use of science, technology and innovation at all levels. It shall be one of the main sources of consolidated and reliable information for achieving the sustainable agriculture and food security. The discussions on millets and other ancient grains led to launch of G20 initiative on Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) during India Presidency. Resilient agrifood systems: One health and climate resilience One Health is an integrated, unifying approach to sustainably balance and optimize the health of people, plants, animals and ecosystems that are closely linked and inter-dependent. Ensuring a One Health approach is essential for progress to anticipate, prevent, detect, and control diseases that spread between animals and humans as well as combatting many other challenges. The climate resilient technologies and innovations for sustainable agrifood systems including nature-positive agriculture can help in climate change adaptation and mitigation. The Biological Nitrification Inhibition (BNI) has been proved effective approach contributing to reducing GHG emissions and increasing crop yields.