 The training should focus more on latest developments and research trends in fruit crops. 9. Due emphasis on emerging issues like climate change and its impact on fruit crops, quality management, post-harvest technology, irrigated and arid horti systems, etc. The following are the points that emerge as challenges for CAFT Directors:  How to attract enthusiastic participation in the programme (as number of participants per programme is declining gradually?  How to deal with last minute drop-outs?  Incentives for participation (after the implementation of VI Pay Commission Recommendations, the erstwhile system of mandatory requirement of participation in 2 ICAR sponsored/recognized programmes of minimum 21 days duration).  Relax the restriction on number of nominations from one university to 4 from the existing 2.  Provision of 2 research staff (Research Associate or Senior Research Fellow), which used to be there in the erstwhile Centre of Advanced Studies (CAS) scheme.  Per day expenses towards boarding and lodge of participants needs to be revised from the existing amount of ` 200/- per participant to at least ` 350/-.  Transport facility (a dedicated vehicle exclusively for CAFT).  Evaluation of CAFTs based on objectively verifiable quantitative and qualitative criteria (accreditation). Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 63 E. Assessment of performance of CAFT participants by peer group and deputing authorities To assess the performance of CAFT participants by their peer group members and the deputing authorities, two different instruments were designed and circulated among the respective peer group and deputing authorities. A total of 130 responses were received in this regard from various NARS organizations like PAU, Ludhiana, GADVASU, Ludhiana, ANGRAU, Hyderabad, IASRI, New Delhi, Dr.YSPUH&F, Solan and CSKHPKV, Palampur. The responses were collected through mail/ e-mail and personal contact. The responses were analyzed and the results are presented in this chapter. Perception of peer group and deputing authorities towards performance of CAFT participants The peer group and the deputing authorities agreed that the CAFT participants utilized the CAFT training exposure in designing new course curriculum based on the CAFT theme (Table 39). They strongly agreed that the CAFT participants very well utilized their training experience in refining the existing course curriculum for teaching students. Similarly, the peer group and the deputing authorities strongly agreed that the style of explaining the facts to students, preparation of resource materials, presentation and the level of scientific interactions had improved as a result of participation in CAFT programmes.