 DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 194 RESEARCH PRODUCTION SYSTEM RESEARCH (PSR) MODE The wide-ranging results with potential of development into technologies were obtained under 264 sub-projects in five agro-ecosystems (AES). Rainfed Agro-ecosystem l Integrated pest management (IPM) comprising seed treatment with Trichoderma viride and soil application mixed with FYM was effective in controlling Alternaria leaf blight and white rust infesting mustard. l A technology developed for natural dye production from safflower petals could provide the safflower farmers 60–70% additional income. l A prototype safflower harvester has been developed, having harvesting and field efficiency of 98 and 87% respectively. l A package of practices for cultivation and storage of groundnut developed could maintain aflatoxin level in groundnut within the limits demanded by the importers. l Integrated Pest Management (IPM) technologies for pigeonpea and chickpea, could cut losses up to 15–20% and reduce the use of pesticides by 50%. l In Rajasthan, Gujarat and Uttar Pradesh the dual-purpose CSV 15 sorghum proved the most promising for producing both grain and fodder. l Paired row planting of pearl millet at 30/60 cm and opening of furrows 35 days after sowing along with the integrated nutrient management practices (50% recommended dose of fertilizer + FYM + biofertilizer) resulted in the highest gross (Rs 11,715/ha) and net (Rs 14,914/ha) returns and benefit : cost ratio of 1.73 over farmers’ practice in Maharashtra, Karnataka and Tamil Nadu. l Intercropping of pigeonpea with finger millet (2 : 8) gave higher gross returns of Rs 22,743/ha than farmers’ practice of finger millet + akkadi (Rs 14,844/ ha) in Karnataka. l Supplementation with locally available feed ingredients like subabul, groundnut-cake, deoiled rice bran, cotton seed-cake and copra-cake can improve digestibility of pearl millet, sorghum and finger millet straws up to 20%. l Harvesting of sorghum at physiological maturity, followed by drying and pearling significantly reduced grain discoloration and increased market value. l Promising high biomass-producing genotypes of sweet sorghum could be identified for alcohol production. The fermentation technology has been standardized up to pilot level. Irrigated Agro-ecosystem l For boro rice cultivation improved technology packages including better seedling raising, protecting seedlings from cold injury, improved varieties and suitable date of sowing have been developed for different states. l Improved lines of basmati rice having lodging resistance, high productivity and resistance to biotic stresses and grain quality were found at par with Taraori basmati. l An evaporatively cooled room (3 m × 3 m × 3 m internal size) of about tonne capacity was developed for on-farm storage of fruits and vegetables.