 ● A low cost concentrate mixture (mustard-cake 30%, rice bran 30%, maize 18%, kalai chuni 20%, salt 1% and lime 1%) was formulated. It was suitable for dairy cattle for sustainable milk production in the plains of Assam. Buffalo The in vivo, in vitro and in sacco experiments revealed that number of biomass (i.e. bacteria and protozoa) increased with amount of concentrate in diet. The fungal zoospores were more on high roughage compared to high concentrate diets. Concentrations of nitrogen metabolites (total N, NH3-N, NPN, microbial N) and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) were more on high concentrate diets. A significant population of microbes (between 48 to 55% of protozoa and between 54 to 58% bacteria) was found associated with the particular phase of digesta. Defaunation of animals fed high roughage and high concentrate diets increased synthesis of microbial nitrogen in rumen resulting in better nitrogen utilization. Higher body weight gains were obtained with less DM intake in the defaunated animals as compared to faunated buffalo calves. Analysis of samples of feeds and fodder collected from the farmers around Hisar, revealed that 30% diets were deficient in Ca and P, and more than 50% in Zn, Mn and Cu. Based on the above findings an area specific mineral mixture was prepared and supplied to the farmers. Heifers given water splashing 3-times a day during summer performed better in terms of age at first service and calving in comparison to those given water splashing once daily. Water splashing 3-times a day was beneficial in terms of body weight gain (454 g vs 428 g/day) and age at first calving (40.4 vs 42.4 months) without affecting the milk yield in subsequent lactation. Goat Studies on mineral status of feed vis-à-vis goat: Tree and bush leaves, desi babul (Acacia nilotica), ardu (Ailanthus excelsa), peepal (Ficus religiosa), Brij babul (Dichrostachys nutans), subabul (Leucaena leucocephala), gular (Ficus glomerata), LOW-PRICED PELLETED FEED FOR GOATS With the main objective of improvement in the existing feeding practices of goat farmers for increased productivity from their animals without putting much financial burden on them and within the feed resources available at their end, three tree leaves based pelleted complete feed was prepared and nutrients availability from such preparation was determined for goats. This feed consisted of 68% dried tree leaves, 30% barley grain, 1% mineral mixture and 1% salt. Ber, pepal and siris tree leaves were used in making pelleted feed. The nutrient intake was as per the recommendations of NRC. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 112 SUCCESS STORY GOAT MANAGEMENT ASPECTS There is a wide variation in devices for feeding and watering of goats and sheep. No standard is being followed in feeding and watering appliances. Animals tend to contaminate the feed in designing by voiding the faeces and urine and standing inside the feeder.