 l Fucoidan is effectively extracted from Sargassum wightii using a novel ultra- sonication assisted extraction procedure and is supplemented in the yoghurt formulation. l The extract is completely biocompatible as proven in in vitro and in vivo studies. No harmful organic solvent is used for extraction. l Fucoidan-enriched yoghurt exhibits good phenolic content and antioxidative potential. l The enrichment with fucoidan has minimal effect on the sensory characteristics of yoghurt. l The seaweed yoghurt has got high acceptance among consumers. Yoghurt acts as an efficient delivery system for seaweeds’ physiological benefits in the human diet. l The technology is aimed at the global fortified yogurt market, which is expected to garner a revenue of US$ 10 billion by 2024, with an annual growth rate of approximately 6.5%. Commercialization and availability l The product is licensed to Kerala Co- operative Milk Marketing Federation (MILMA). The company is scheduled to market the product as a functional Yoghurt. 14. CIFTEQ® Seaweed Yoghurt Compiled by: Anuj Kumar, Pankaj Kishore, M. D. Hanjabam and K. Ashok Kumar Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.cift.res.in Sargassum wightii 17 CIFTEQ® Extruded snacks About the product l Sargassum wightii is a brown seaweed with high levels of essential macro- and micro-nutrients, trace minerals, dietary fibres and antioxidants. l Powdered S. wightii is incorporated in dried form to rice/corn-based extruded snacks. l The extruded product has optimal physical and functional properties viz., lower bulk density, higher expansion ratio and hard- ness, similar to other extruded products. l The product is rich in minerals, carbohydrate and dietary fibre, and has high total phenolic content and antioxidant capacity, which are beneficial for human health. l This seaweed enriched and extruded product can be coated with different flavours using sunflower oil for better consumer acceptability. l The product packed in metalized polyes- ter-polyethylene pouches has a storage life of 6 months at ambient storage conditions. l The process parameters and packaging parameters are optimized to ensure microbiological safety and extend the shelf-life. l Extruded snacks products are highly popular among urban youth despite being high in calorie and low in nutrition. The technology is aimed at making such snacks healthier and nutritious. Commercialization and availability l The technology is validated and ready for commercialization. l A mini process line starting from production to packaging is available for demonstration to interested entrepreneurs. 15. CIFTEQ® Seaweed Incorporated Extruded Snacks Compiled by: S. Sreejith, J. Bindu and George Ninan Further Information: Director, ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Kochi, Kerala. Phone: +91-484-2412300 Email: director.cift@icar.gov.in; Website: www.