 Hiring and training sufficient number of extension professionals in the sector can significantly contribute to the farmer’s income, and sufficient female extension professionals must be hired on subsector wise where female farmers participation is very high, for example, dairy sector. A large number of vacant positions in the States’ Agriculture Departments is a matter of grave concern. Majority of the States have their extension staff up to Block level. Only 6 States have their staff up to village level, and 11 states have extension manpower up to Panchayat level. Vacancy position is particularly alarming in tribal and distant areas which are mostly in need of extension services. India is having around 1.2 lakhs extension professionals, where as in China there were 7.134 million local agriculture extension personals of which 2.87 million are at country level, 35, 100 are at the district level, 3.913 million are at village and town level. Among that 49.7 per cent of the personnel has a junior college diploma or above and 67.9 per cent professional titles. 3. A large body of literature has shown that public expenditures on agricultural research and development generate very high returns not only in boosting agriculture productivity but also in contributing to broader welfare outcomes, such as the reduction of poverty and improving nutrition security. India spent just 0.7 per cent of Agriculture GDP during 2014-15 on agriculture research and education which includes extension and training, which is par below the recommended 2 per cent by the World Bank. In 0.7 per cent aggregated allocation, 0.54 per cent was on agriculture research & education and 0.16 per cent on agriculture extension. 4. Agriculture extension services in India are mainly focusing on crop production mainly focusing on Transfer of Technology (ToT). Around 70 per cent of the Agriculture Research and Education (R& E) budget was allocated for crop production, while 92 per cent of the budget on agriculture extension was allocated to crop production. 5. In recent years, consumers’ consumption pattern is shifting from cereals based to high-value agricultural products such as Fruits, Vegetables, dairy products etc. The growth in the High-Value Agriculture sector has been twice or sometimes even thrice that of the crop production. Between 2001-02 and 2013-14, livestock contributed 26.3 per cent, 15.4 per cent by food-grains and 14 per cent by fruits and vegetables to the gross value of output from agriculture and allied activities. However, Agriculture extension services for such sectors almost nil or unorganized. 6. Presently, extension service providers such as Public, Private, civil societies are working independently without functional coordination among themselves at field level. As a result, best practices generated by each of the actors not accessible to the wider application. 7.