 Cellular, genetic mechanisms and identifying molecular markers for seed viability in soybean: Breeding lines with higher seed viability and permeability was identified which maintained >70% seed viability even after 3 years of ambient storage of soyabean. These lines were subjected to testing for other traits including content of oil in the seeds. It was observed that in general, higher the oil content (%) in the seeds, lesser the viability. However, few lines maintained higher viability even with higher oil content. In depth characterization of the associated genomic variation and two genotypes with contrasting seed coat properties Glycine soja (hard seed) and DS9712 (Glycine max, soft seed), revealed 2 genes (Type I- Inositol polyphosphate 5 phosphotase1 and E3 Ubiquitin ligases) with a preliminary, but a strong association with the soybean seed permeability trait. The experiments carried out at Indian Agricultural Research Institute (IARI) and National Research Centre on Plant Biotechnology (NRCPB), New Delhi, indicated that genes differentiated parental genotypes, revealed protein conformational deformations Electron microscopy of seed coat showing variations in permeable and impermeable seed coat. A: Intact hourglass cell layer; B. Impermeable seed coat; C. Permeable seed coat. A B C 17 Salient Achievements of the Projects and demonstrated segregation among RILs in coherence with their permeability scores, and hence could be used to develop PCRbased markers for accelerated soybean breeding. To generate a transcriptome profile from good storer versus poor storer genotypes, RNA was isolated from G. max and G. soja seeds at three different time points during the priming phase and was assessed for RNA integrity. Out of 40614 differentially expressed genes (DEGs), all 265 DEGs, and 1434 DEGs of G. max and G. soja, respectively at 0 to 48 hours were identified. Analysis of DEGs between G. max and G. soja at 12 hours revealed 884 DEGs. These were annotated using BLAST 2GO annotation. Based on literature and fold change values, a total of 23 genes were selected which could potentially be involved in seed longevity of G. soja in comparison to G. max. Mechanisms of tolerance to low light intensity in rice: One hundred rice genotypes were evaluated for their adaptability to low- light environment under two light regimes i.e., open (100%) and 75% light intensity by putting agro shade nets in kharif season-2017. Grain yield and percentage of yield loss among the 50 National Rice Research Institute (NRRI) rice genotypes showed highest grain yield under low light in Pyari (3.93t/ha), followed by Panindra (3.82 t/ha), Pabitra (3.57 t/ha) and Supriya (3.16t/ha) which were more than the susceptible checks and at par with the tolerant check. Among the 50 Assam collection the highest grain yield under low light environment was recorded in Bihari Sali (3.78 t/ha), followed by Nalini Sali (3.71 t/ha) and Lota Sali (3.53 t/ha).