 While KNN only achieves 79% accuracy in the detection of paddy leaf images impacted by blasts, ANN achieves 90% accuracy in this area. The results are summarised in Fig.5 and Table 1. Fig.5 Performance of KNN and ANN Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report d. Deployment considerations Images from the paddy field were taken using smart phone and sent to cloud server using 4G. Since the number of images was considerably high, the latency of the system was significant. The delay performance could be improved, if the smart phones are replaced by drones and transmit the images using 5G. Alternatively, smart phones/ drones may transmit to local hubs and further to cloud. e. Regulatory considerations Country-specific regulation related to drones. 4. Results of the use case (outcomes) - | Performance and evaluation criteria The performance of the presented use case is evaluated by generating the confusion matrix for the applied Al algorithm. - Qualitative and quantitative comparison of before and after implementation of the use case, the comparison can be illustrated by graphs, tables, figures, etc., Based on the identification of blast-affected images among the normal images, the training phase accuracy of K-Nearest Neighbour (KNN) and Artificial Neural Network (ANN) classification algorithms is demonstrated. Among the normal images, 99% of the blast- affected images are detected by ANN classifier. However, the KNN classifier only offers 90% accuracy. In the training phase, the detection accuracy for normal images is 99% for ANN and 90% for KNN, respectively. The efficiency of both ANN and KNN classifiers during testing, where KNN and ANN's accuracy for detecting typical images is 63% and 88%, respectively. While KNN only achieves 79% accuracy in the detection of paddy leaf images impacted by blasts, ANN achieves 90% accuracy in this area. The results are summarised in Fig.5 and Table 1. Performance of KNN and ANN 100 Ga KNN 43 ANN 80 60 40 20 0 + Precision NPV Fl score Fig.5 Performance of KNN and ANN TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 81 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 82 Table 1 5. Lessons learned (particular to implementations of use case) Pictures are taken through smart phone and uploaded to cloud server manually, which is a time-consuming process. However, during the implementation phase, drones will be used. 6. Available standards - ICT or Agricultural - Available international standards 7. Links for supporting material (website, articles, etc.,) https //:doi .org /10 .1016 /j .inpa .2019 .09 .002 Rice-Blast Disease Monitoring Using Mobile App | Ramesh | International Journal of Engineering & Technology )sciencepubco .com( IEEE Xplore Full-Text PDF : 8. Appendix Appendix 1: Actor / Business role S No Actor Business role 1.