 A unit of ICAR-IARI’s JalopcharTM Technology-based ‘Eco-friendly Wastewater Treatment Facility’ with a capacity to treat 1 lakh Liter water under the 12 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Swachhta Action Plan Program was inaugurated by Dr Chaudhari. Developer of the technology, Dr Ravinder Kaur, Principal Scientist, Water Technology Center, ICAR-IARI, New Delhi, explained the concept and functioning of the plant to the dignitaries and participants. The celebration of Foundation Day also featured a lecture by Dr Jagannath V Dixit, Professor, Department of Community Medicines, BJ Medical College, Pune, Maharashtra, on a plan and lifestyle to reverse type 2 diabetes. On occasion, the staff and employees of the Institute were felicitated with awards in scientific, technical, administrative, skilled support staff, and project staff categories to recognize their significant contribution to the research and institution-building activities. Two special team awards were awarded to the team of scientists who contributed significantly for converting the barren lands into green lands through a systematic transfer of technology programmes and for the admirable compilation of the farmers’ profile that led to one Padma, one National and two State-level awards to the farmers. One annual hind magazine Lehrein ¼ygjsa½ and seven extension folders were released during the programme. AKMU ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute Old Goa, Goa ICAR-IISWC celebrated 70th Foundation Day 10 April 2023, Dehradun. On the 70th Foundation Day of ICAR-IISW, Dr R P Singh, Director, IIRS, Dehradun was the Chief Guest. He praised the institute on its 70th foundation day for its relentless contribution to soil and water conservation research and training. Dr M Madhu, Director ICAR-IISWC presented an overall achievement of the Institute and the new initiatives taken during the recent past towards improving the research outcome, conservation of natural resources, farmers welfare and societal development. Progressive farmers spoke on the contribution of the Institute in uplifting their livelihood and food production avenues. The program was attended by 250 scientists and staff of the Institute, retired staff and guests from various organizations, NGOs, press & media and academia besides 60 online participants. Agricultural Knowledge Management Unit ICAR-Indian Institute of Soil & Water Conservation 218-Kaulagarh Road Dehradun Uttarakhand 248 195 ICAR-CIFRI celebrated World Environment Day 6 June 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. ICAR-CIFRI fervently celebrated World Environment Day on 5 June 2023. The Institute organized a rally and an Awareness-cum-Sensitization Programme at Sheoraphuli Ghat, Ganga River, Barrackpore to sensitize the general public about the harmful effect of plastic and plastic pollution followed by a plantation programme at ICAR-CIFRI residential campus.