 These fabrics were used to prepare long coat, half jacket and full jacket with a good thermal insulation value. Likewise, the fine yak fibre (diameter 20–30 μ) was used to develop high value shawl, suiting fabric and jackets. The shawl consists of 30% jute, 40% fine yak fibre and 30% silk fibres by weight with a price approximately ` 2,500. To improve the feel and softness of the jute/yak fibres blended fabric, it was finished with suitable chemical. The chemical finish leads to improvement in total-hand-value (THV) of the fabric from 2.38 to 3.28 (1 means poor and 5 means excellent). Scientific intervention in this area will be beneficial to jute farmers and yak herders (farmers). Chemical free process technology for the production of raisins: The existing practices of raisin making involve intense use of chemicals especially for pre-treatment, during drying and post drying as well. In this practice, the drying time of grapes is about 13–20 days depending on the environmental conditions; the process involves more number of unit operations and is tedious and laborious. Disposal of solution of chemical and water after use creates environmental issues. On the other hand, there is a consumer demand for chemical free products. A package of technology with chemical free process was developed at ICAR-CIAE, Bhopal for the production of raisins. It includes a grape de-bunching machine (capacity: 150 kg/h) to separate intact grape berries, abrasive pre-treatment equipment (capacity: 135–150 kg/h) to remove waxy layer from the grape surface, drying protocol for grapes, packaging and storage of raisins. This package of technology is suitable to produce good quality raisins with no use of chemicals in entire Tubular condenser integrated bio-oil apparatus A bio-oil production unit capable of converting biomass to bio-oil in slow pyrolysis mode was developed having loading capacity of one kg powdered biomass. The main unit is vertical stainless steel reactor. The reactor was coupled with specially designed tubular condenser for condensing the bio- vapour generated during heating treatment of biomass. The condenser is equipped with five SS tubes. The pyrolysis vapour is immediately passed through the heat exchanger to condense the bio-oil from gas. The process temperature for destructive distillation of biomass is precisely controllable in this system from ambient until 700°C. The unit has been tested with recovery until 48% with pine needle biomass. System also has provision for injecting nitrogen for maintaining inert atmosphere to conduct the studies on pyrolytic behaviour of biomass. Grape de-bunching machine Abrasive pre-treatment equipment Drying of grapes Mechanized whey dewatering system POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 102 process and there is reduction in drying time of grapes (by 30–40%). Solar dryer or convective type hot air dryer can be used to dry the grapes.