 A significantly lower per cent disease index (PDI) was recorded on the leaves of grape plants treated with Eco-Pesticide®/sulfur (22.37) followed First release of Anagyrus lopezi in cassava at Yethapur Distribution and release of Anagyrus lopezi in cassava at Erode district, Tamil Nadu Distribution of bruchid species on edible stored legumes across different locations of the country (Note: CA, C. analis; CM, C. maculatus; CC, C. chinensis; AA, A. obtectus; CS, C. serratus) Effect of microbial technologies on disease incidence in grape Effect of microbial technologies on yield in grape Untreated control Untreated control Bio pulse + Sulphur Bio pulse + Sulphur Eco-pesticide+Sulphur Eco-pesticide+Sulphur Crop Management icar annual report 2022-23 98 by Bio-Pulse®/sulfur (22.62) and Bio-Care 24®/sulfur (24.62) at NRCG. Identification of novel bacteriophage NR-08 against Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae having potential bio-control efficacy against bacterial leaf blight of rice: Bacterial leaf blight (BLB) disease of rice caused by Xanthomonas oryzae pv. oryzae (Xoo), is one of the most destructive diseases worldwide causing more than 50% yield losses. An eco-friendly alternative to chemical anti-bacterials like phage therapy was explored at ICAR-NIBSM, Raipur as potential bio-control option for the control of BLB. A diverse group of 19 bacteriophages having lytic potential against wide range of Xoo pathogens were isolated from rice field water, soil and field debris. Based on Transmission Electron micrographs and whole genome sequence, these phages showed the varied diversity belonging to phage family Podoviridae, Siphoviridae and Myoviridae. The genome size of these phages ranged from 43.6 to 203 kb with predicted number of genes from 56 to 418. The raw sequence data were submitted to NCBI under the Bio- Project: PRJNA844261 with the SRA accession number: SRR19757542-56; and SRR19760374. The phages were viably active in wide range of temperature (4–50°C) and pH (5–9). The sequence analysis of NR-08 phage has shown the strong bacteriolytic lifestyle without any association of phage lysogenic cycle, antibiotic resistance and toxicity. The most of genome sequence information is novel to this phage having no similarity with previously known phages. On bacterial challenge assay, the NR-08 phage has bacteriostasis potential up to 24 h and showed 99.95% reduction in bacterial viable count in 48 h. During the In-planta phage efficacy trials in rice pots, the application of phage NR08 treatment significantly reduced the BLB lesions on rice leaves and showed more than 75% protective efficacy as compared to the untreated infected control. This novel NR-08 Xoo phage may be explored further as an efficient, potent and valuable candidate for bio- control of bacterial leaf blight of rice.