 Result on residue management revealed that rice straw incorporation coupled with 25 % more N application enhanced the wheat yield. Crop modeling in rabi sorghum: A study was conducted to understand the utility of additional N applications to enhance rabi sorghum production using Sorghum module of APSIM platform (v7.6). The module was used to simulate the yields of rabi sorghum in 83 districts of central India. Crop simulation studies indicated that on-station N practice (OS; 150 kg DAP/ ha as starter dose and 100 kg urea/ha as top dressing) would enhance the stover production across the post- rainy cultivation region of central India. However, in low yielding environments (average yield <1,500 kg/ ha), there was significant loss in grain yield due to OS practice (~15%). Oilseeds Comparative performances of linseed varieties in adaptation to climate change: Sowing of linseed PKV NL-260 in 47th standard week (19 November - 25 November) produced highest seed yield under limited irrigation, which was significantly higher compared to other sowing dates and varieties, under Nagpur condition. The variable response of varieties was observed at different locations. Pulses Summer greengram in rice-wheat systems under conservation agriculture: To study the effect of resource conservation technology in pulse based cropping system, experiments carried out for sixth year revealed that system productivity in terms of chickpea equivalent yield was higher in zero tillage and residue incorporation. In cropping systems, highest system productivity in terms of chickpea equivalent yield (CEY) was obtained in rice-chickpea-greengram (5,113 kg/ha) followed by rice-wheat (3,190 kg/ha) and lowest in rice-chickpea (2,501 kg/ha). Higher soil dehydrogenase activity was recorded under residue retention and rice-wheat-greengram system. Sprinkler irrigation scheduling in summer greengram: Enhancing crop yield per unit water use through improved agro-techniques involving sprinklers in summer greengram indicated higher order stability in Samrat (with significantly higher seed yield) over IPM 205-7. Narrow row spacing of 22.5 cm yielded significantly higher over farmers’ practices of 30 cm row spacing. As a result, higher net returns, BCR (Benefit cost ratio), and WUE (Water use efficiency) were with the closer row spacing and Samrat following sprinkler irrigation. In addition, sprinkler irrigation resulted in less water use (26.3%) with higher water productivity (43.2%) and net return (28.4%) over flood irrigation. Agronomic fortification of micronutrient in greengram and blackgram: Pot experiments on relative performance of ferti-fortification revealed that foliar spray of Zn (0.2-1.4% at pre-flowering) enhanced its concentration in leaves, stem and grain from 7- 16% both in greengram as well as blackgram. Similarly, soil application of Zn (0.5-3.5 ppm) showed 6 to 14% improvement in Zn concentration in root, shoot, leaf and grain.