 The initial step involved washing and cutting of Hill lemon fruit into equal halves along with peel followed by removal of seeds and grating of halves by using a pulper. The resulting slurry was then transferred to hydraulic press to extract comminut Hill lemon juice. Afterward, extracted juice was filtered through muslin cloth and was used to develop RTS beverage. To achieve the desired acidity level of 0.3%, various combinations of comminuted Hill Structural arrangement of freshness indicator of dahi On-Package smart sensor as freshness indicator for set-type fermented dairy products: Developed for dahi and mistidahi. Ragi choco spread: In view of the “International Year of Millets 2023”, a new composite dairy product “Ragi Choco Spread” was developed which is a good source of calcium (125 mg/100 g) and milk protein (6%). Milk-Millet-Malt-Mix: It is a composite dairy product containing Foxtail millet that was developed and commercialized. This product provides balanced nutrition to pediatric and geriatric segments of the society. A serving of 10 g provides 2.5 g of protein, 0.5 g of minerals (calcium, iron and zinc), and 0.5 g of dietary fibres. ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 118 POST-HARVEST MANAGEMENT AND VALUE-ADDITION Characterization and bioprocess optimization for enhanced vitamin B12 production: Done by using Limosilactobacillus reuteri NCDC 958 Freeze dried probiotic DVS starters of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum CRD 7 and its performance in dahi preparation: A freeze drying process was developed for preparation of probiotic direct vat set (DVS) starters using Indigenous strains of aflatoxin M1 binding L. plantarum CRD 7 for preparation of dahi to reduce ameliorate AFM1 burden. This will be helpful in meeting the demand of indigenous probioitc dairy starters for manufacture of fermented milk products. Ragi choco spread Milk-Millet-Malt-Mix ADDITION OF DVS TO MILK PROBIOTIC DVS POWDER PROBIOTIC DAHI PREPARED FROM DVS PROBIOTIC DVS POUCH Freeze dried probiotic DVS starters of Lactiplantibacillus plantarum CRD 7 Preparation of whey based medium for the growth of vitamin B12 producing L. reuteri NCDC958 Production of menthol crystals from mint oil: Conventional process of menthol crystal takes 25-26 days cooling at -5oC to -35oC. Therefore a new process for menthol crystal production was developed to reduce the time of production. The mentha oil is incubated at 10°C for 15 days and then the material is filtered under vacuum to separate the crystals and residual liquid. Thereafter the crystals are dried and about 25% crystals of the total oil volume are obtained. The menthol crystals thus obtained are white in colour, thick flakes, and transparent. The size of crystals ranges from 1.06 to 1.66 cm.