 ↓ Advertisement for submission of Pre-Proposals ↓ Recommendations of Pre-proposals through Subject Matter Divisions of ICAR ↓ Screening for selection of Pre-Proposals by Experts Committee ↓ Full project proposal development & evaluation ↓ Presentation by PIs and Selection by Experts Committee ↓ Approval by Board Rest of the guidelines for implementation, monitoring, evaluation, finance, extension etc. remain same as per projects selection and award process under NASF. Experts committee can have members from Private Industry/ NGOs. Sponsored Mode: Some of the larger problems of national level importance and emerging areas of research Introduction of NASF Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 6 of high anticipated value in Indian agriculture requiring substantial improvement in research infra-structure are also addressed under NASF (in sponsored mode), as decided by the Board. Topics of the sponsored projects are selected by the Board on its own or through a consultation mechanism or on recommendation of the Council or on recommendations of a competent committee constituted by the Board. For approval of international collaborative projects under different approved workplans and international obligations, the following steps are followed and funding is provided to Indian component only: Grant for International Collaborative Research The selection of the sponsored projects is a three-stage process. Submission of Proposals by Institutes through Subject Matter Division ↓ Recommendations of Pre-proposals through International Relations Section of ICAR based on MoU signed and work plan developed, international obligations ↓ Full project proposal development & evaluation ↓ Selection by the Committee constituted by ICAR ↓ Approval by Board 1.9 Implementation of NASF NASF has effectively implemented 282 projects involving about 282 Lead Centres and 531 Cooperating Centres located at different parts of the country. The data in table 1 reflects the stringent measures used to screen the potential project proposals. 1.9.1 Number of Concept Notes/Pre- Proposals/Full-Proposals: NASF receives large no. of concept notes/ Pre-proposals for the funding from various organizations across the country. The Table 1 provides the glimpse of the number of concept notes/pre-proposals/ full-proposals received at the NASF unit. From the VII call onwards, the concept notes are received through a digital platform developed by Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute (ICAR-IASRI). Very robust and stringent screening is carried out by the division as well as by the experts committee for approval of the projects. Table 1: Data of the number of Concept notes/ pre proposals/Full proposals No. of Call No. of Concept Notes/Pre-Proposals Received No. of Full- Proposals Approved I 145 21 II 159 26 III 191 35 IV 597 22 V 723 20 VI 996 36 VII 976 31 VIII 680 32 IX 1345 39 X 629 28 1.9.