 Distribution of respondents-Duration of training undergone II CAFT Programmes: Preparation, participation and application by participants The information given in Table 13 about the source of information of CAFT training programmes communicates that majority of the respondents (63 %) came to know Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 30 about the CAFT programme by self, through colleagues and the immediate superiors. This implies that the peer groups of the Universities support the colleagues to gain knowledge and skills through CAFT programmes and facilitate application of such gains at their departments or divisions. It indirectly informs about the conducive peer group support prevailing in Universities. Added to that one-tenth of the heads of the organizations also were the sources of information about CAFT programmes, which tells about the conducive supervisor support for the participants. Table 13. Source of training information It could be very well understood from the information given in table 14 that majority (57 %) of the respondents participated in CAFT programmes to up-date their knowledge and skills pertaining to their respective disciplines. Hence, it could be implied that CAFT themes attracted participants in building the capacity of faculty in terms of knowledge and skills and thus the main objective of CAFT concept has been fulfilled. Option No. of Responses Percentage a. Self 62 22 % b. Colleague in the same department/organization 46 20 % c. Immediate superior 58 21 % d. Head of the organization 31 11 % e. Friends in other organization 14 5 % f. Personally contacted by CAFT Director/Faculty 45 16 % g. No response 15 5 % Total 271 100 % Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 31 Table 14. Motivation behind training participation (Note: Percentages do not add up to 100 due to multiple responses) Information given in table 15 and 16 informs that majority of the participants (58 %) made efforts for pre-training preparation about the theme or topic pertaining to CAFT training programmes. Such preparation was done through referring to the relevant literature, browsing through internet and discussing with the peer group. Such information implies the interest and value thrown by the participants towards CAFT training programmes. Table 15. Pre-training preparation Option No. of Responses Percentage a. Training theme was relevant to my job 61 23% b. Training was related to my subject 63 23% c. To update my knowledge and skills 154 57% d. To fulfill CAS/promotion requirement 46 17% e. Instructed by HoD/Head of Organization 3 1% f. To seek change from daily routine 3 1% g. No response 4 1% Option No.