 Additionally, construct a fence using locally available materials like bamboo to prevent animals and children from entering the pond area. Utility of stored water from the Jalkund for different farm activities To assess the benefits and impact of Jalkund on hill farm livelihoods, 20 farmers that were beneficiaries of Jalkund from the ICAR programmes viz. Farmers’ FIRST, TSP, etc. were considered. Farmers were able to cultivate around 450 sq. m area under the jalkund irrigation having the average storage capacity of 38.52 m3. Moreover, farmers were cultivating vegetables which yielded a significant amount of gross returns. Farmers habitually cultivate vegetables like cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, mustard leaves, tomato, radish etc., under jalkund irrigation. Besides this, during the off-season, the piggery and poultry activities majorly depended on the jalkund for their survival. The average capacity of the jalkund is around 38,520 litres, which mainly depends on intermittent rains and farmers have sources other than rainwater like outflow from the tank which is connected to the jalkund so that excess water is stored in the jalkund. The total water required for the cultivation of crops in the given area was ~ 59,062 litres. The farmers were getting around 10-13 quintals of agricultural produce by growing vegetables. They were earning around ` 27,000 from the crops exclusively cultivated under the irrigation of stored water in the jalkund. For poultry activity, the total water required varied between 4,000- 5,000 litres to maintain around 33 birds, especially during the lean season (180 days). Farmers earned ~ ` 3,625 by selling fully grown birds (benefit attributed to the jalkund). Piggery is the main activity for the livelihood of the Meghalaya farm households. Jalkund technology supports piggery activity by providing much required water resources during the rain-dearth period. Farmers were getting supplementary income on an average of ` 10,500 by selling fully grown pigs. In addition to these farm activities, farmers were also able to rear fish in the jalkund from which they have earned ` 3,125 annually (Table 1). Impact of Jalkund technology on the livelihoods of the beneficiaries The benefit-cost ratio for vegetable cultivation, piggery, poultry, and fishery were 2.32, 2.70, 2.04, and 3.12 respectively. It implies that all the activities are economically viable and generate sufficient income for the improvement of sustainable livelihoods of hill farm households. The overall farm household income increased from ` 1,45,000 to 1,91,125 after the implementation of low-cost jalkund technology on the farm. All farm components are significantly contributing to the farm income from the utilization of stored water. The increase in the income from all the activities after having jalkund was about 31.81%. Piggery showed a greater increase in income (36.21%) followed by the cultivation of crops (26.73%) and Poultry (24.17%).