 The fish-derived bioactive peptides can prove to be a natural and less toxic therapeutic source. Crop management: Pusa decomposer is a microbial consortium of fungi developed for accelerated degradation of paddy straw into manure in 20–25 days. This technology is an effective eco-friendly solution for agri-residue management, alternative to burning thereby decreasing air pollution and improving soil health. An endospores-based liquid formulation CRIJAF SONA was developed for jute retting which can be completed within 12 days and the resulting jute fibre has a better strength. Rainfed monocropping systems have low yield and lead to low income. Therefore, an Integrated Farming System (IFS) model was developed for rainfed cotton-based system for central India. Overall, one-ha IFS model produced 70.2 q/ha cotton-equivalent yield with a benefit: cost ratio of 1.95. The biopolymers can be used as a seed coating material and carrier matrix for entrapment of agri inputs. These polymers were utilized for entrapment of beneficial microbes like Trichoderma which enhances productivity between 20–30%. Two promising Trichoderma isolates were identified with the potential to enhance sugarcane yield by 17–24.5% under low inorganic fertilizer usage. For the first time leaf spot ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 4 OVERVIEW (Curcularia geniculata) has been observed on maize in India. A study was conducted to isolate and identify efficient bacterial endophytes for wheat to enhance further the genetic potential of low accumulating genotypes for update and translocation of iron and zinc in grains and plant parts. The isolates DS-178 (Bacillus subtilis) and DS-179 (Arthrobacter sp.) were more for zinc acquisition, whereas DS-68 (Arthrobacter sulfonivorans) and DS-163 (Enterococcus hirae) were efficient for iron acquisition in grains. Topramezone, promising herbicides is found to be effective to control broadleaved weeds and some of the narrow leaved weeds. Adult weevils of bioagent Cyrtobagous saliviniae, were released in aquatic weed (Salvinia molesta) in Madhya Pradesh. Complete control of the weed was achieved within six months and there was no regeneration of weed thereafter. In horticulture, clay-polymer composites using starch, guar-gum, chitosan as polymer and clay, sugarcane bagasse and grape pomace as filler were synthesized. Clay-polymer composites and nano particles as fertilizer carrier will help in increasing micronutrient use efficiency especially in case of Fe and Zn having low availability in calcareous soils. A Litchi maturity kit that provides an easy and handy option to accurately judge acidity of litchi fruit was developed. The attainment of 18–20 BTSS and acidity of less than 0.5% is a reliable indicator of optimum fruit maturity. Two formulations of nutrient mixture, viz. Kalpa Poshak and Kalpa Vardhini were developed for enhancement of growth of juvenile palms and improving the productivity of adult palms, respectively.