 NRC Grapes, Pune Process for Preparing Activated Carbon Nanoparticle and its Application Thereof NRC PIG, GHUATI Process for Preparation of a Spray for Surface Decontamination of Pork Carcasses Using Fermented Bamboo Shoot Extract and Spray Thereof NRRI, Cuttack Efficient Portable Insect Collector with Automated Counter To protect the Plant Varieties, 31 varieties (19 extant and 12 new varieties) were filed at Plant Varieties and Farmers’ Rights Authority (PPV&FRA). Twenty- one plant varieties (19 extant and two new varieties) Other IPR Tools Used for Innovation Management at ICAR Institutes IPR Tools Copyright Trademark Designs Application Filed (Cumulative) 159 (460) 29 (218) 14 (87) Institute Involved 25 14 6 Type/Category Computer Software; Literary/Dramatic Word; Device Prototypes were registered during this period. The cumulative of registered plant varieties is 1381. Intellectual Property Rights (IPRs) of other categories such as copyright, trademark and designs were also filed by ICAR institutes. ip, Organization and Management icar annual report 2022-23 208 Glimpse of Technology Commercialization Activities at Institute Technology Management Units Agri-business Incubation Centers Agri-Business Incubation (ABI) Centers at 50 institutes facilitate entrepreneurs/start-ups. In the current year, these centers facilitated 449 entrepreneurs/startup by providing incubation space, know-how/technology, training, and validation of their products/ideas for converting in a business enterprise. After completing their incubation activities, 146 entrepreneurs graduated to start their own businesses. Technology Transfer/Commercialization The period also witnessed increased involvement of ICAR institutes in licensing technologies to different public and private sectors organizations. The mode of partnerships largely had been through formal Licensing Agreements. Accordingly, this year, 661 such license agreements were signed with 452organizations for 379 technologies by 55 institutes.Out of these 661 licenses, 227 were IP protected. Professional Services: Eighteen ICAR institutions in different Subject Matter Divisions have entered into 80 agreements for consultancy/contract research and services with 75 public and/or private organizations. Some of the important initiatives at different ABICs are as follows: ICAR-CIBA, Chennai: To provide farm level diagnostic services, ABIC-CIBA has promoted Illume Gene India LLP., Bangalore, which is providing affordable disease diagnostic services to the shrimp farmers. ICAR-CCRI, Nagpur: Ashok Agro, a Nagpur based start-up company, incubated at CCRI center with the support of Acid Lime Nutri Jelly technology. Ashok Agro launched this in the market as a business enterprise in the brand name of “Richer Land”.