 Other cross-breeding projects consisted of Indo-Danish Project (1967) at Hessarghatta, PL- 480 Project at Haringhatta (West Bengal), Indo-Swiss Project (1971) at Patiala, using Brown Swiss and Sahiwal/Hariana, AICRP at five Institutions, NDRI Karnal, and Frieswal Project (HF x Sahiwal) at Project Directorate on Cattle (Now Central Institute for Research on Cattle), Meerut in collaboration with Military Farms. A pioneering work on large scale crossbreeding in different parts of the country was also in vogue by Bhartiya Agro-Industries Foundation (BAIF). Many of these projects used elite indigenous breeds. 5.2.3. Operation Flood During 1970, a very ambitious program named Operation Flood based on Amul model of dairy development, was undertaken by the National Dairy Development Board (NDDB) with funding from the World Food Program (WFP). Operation Flood I (1970-81), Operation Flood II (1981- 85) and Operation Flood III (1985-94) made the small-holder milk producers the kingpin of India’s dairying through milk producer’s cooperative societies. The AI network of the state/ central Government were linked to the cooperatives and bull mother farms were established for production of exotic and crossbred bulls. 5.2.4. National Livestock Mission Commenced in 2014-15, this centrally sponsored scheme under the Department of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries (Ministry of Agriculture) has four sub-missions, out of which 3 are related to cattle. The mission is designed to cover all the activities required to ensure quantitative and qualitative improvement in livestock production systems and capacity building of all stakeholders. This Mission is formulated with the objective of sustainable development of livestock sector, focusing on improving availability of quality feed and fodder. NLM is implemented in all States including Sikkim. 5.2.5. National Programme for Bovine Breeding & Dairy Development (NPBBDD) The programme is being implemented since the 12th five-year plan of the country with aims to improve the bovine breeding and dairy services of the country. It is managed by the Department 37 of Animal Husbandry Dairying and Fisheries. The programme provides funds to farmers through State Livestock Development Board, State Animal Husbandry Departments, State Milk Federations and other supporting NGOs and universities/colleges. This is a restructured Scheme launched by merging four existing schemes i.e., Intensive Dairy Development Programme (IDDP), Strengthening Infrastructure for Quality & Clean Milk Production (SIQ&CMP), Assistant to Cooperatives and National Project for Cattle & Buffalo Breeding with the budget provision of Rs.1800 crores. The Scheme has two component namely (i) The National Programme for bovine breeding (NPBB) and (ii) The National Programme for Dairy Development (NPDD). National Programme for Bovine Breeding was initiated during 12th Plan period (2013 to 2017) with participation of 27 states. 5.2.6.