 Sustainability 2022, 14, 15057 17 of 22 The constraints, such as gaps and delays in allocation, the release and utilization of funds, the interrupted supply of funds, higher labor requirement, non-availability of bio-inputs, certiﬁcation issues and not obtaining premium price, need to be addressed [50]. Afﬂuent consumers are often willing to pay a premium for organic produce because of better health beneﬁts [51–56], but consumers in developing countries are more price- conscious, and the majority cannot afford premium prices. However, even in developing countries, a niche market is growing for organic produce. There is a growing demand for organic produce, especially among urban centers in India. Because of the increased awareness about the negative consequence of chemical residues in foods, consumers are willing to pay a premium for organic produce. According to the World Organic Agriculture Report 2018, India is the home to the most signiﬁcant number of organic farmers globally, comprising almost 30 percent of the total 2.7 million certiﬁed organic farmers. However, the share of the organic agricultural area to total cropland is less than 3% in India [57]. This area can be increased to 10% of the cropped area with a focus on rainfed and the hilly regions [58] without any loss to food security at country level with increased proﬁts to farmers. Therefore, a well-calibrated strategy to prioritize the areas [59] that can be converted for organic farming, certiﬁcation and marketing is urgently needed. Author Contributions: Conceptualization and methodology: A.A.R. and M.B.; Formal analysis: A.A.R.; Investigation: V.P., V.S. and A.S. and C.R.R.; Project administration: A.A.R. and M.C.; Resources: I.M.; Software: T.V.; Writing—review & editing: A.A.R., I.M. and G.M. All authors have read and agreed to the published version of the manuscript. Funding: This manuscript was made possible by funding support from the Estonian Research Council and the European Regional Development Fund through the programme Mobilitas Pluss [grant number MOBTP122], the Estonian Environmental Research Centre for the project “Analysis of changes in agricultural land use under future scenarios” [grant number 2-1/20/2020] and European Union’s Horizon 2020 research and innovation programme for project SHOWCASE [grant number 862480]. The research work is funded by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India. Institutional Review Board Statement: Not applicable. Informed Consent Statement: Not applicable. Data Availability Statement: Not applicable. Acknowledgments: The study is a part of a research project funded by Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare, Government of India. The views expressed are belong solely to the author, and not necessarily to the author’s employer or funding agency. Conﬂicts of Interest: The authors declare no conﬂict of interest. Appendix A Appendix A.1.