 NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 81 TECHNIQUE FOR RAPID DECOMPOSITION OF RICE-STRAW Pre-treating rice-straw with aqueous solution of urea (1.25%), ZnSO4 (1.25%) and CuSO4 (0.062%) for 48 hours and subsequent composting in a manure pit made rapid decomposition within 21 days and addition of pigeonpea twigs and pod husks in 1:4 ratio enhanced the rate of decomposition and improved the substrate quality of compost. Significant increase in yield of rice-wheat system was obtained through soil application of this material @ 5 tonnes/ha in alternate crops. ● Combined use of fertilizer NPK and sulphitation press mud in rice gave higher yield than the treatmet receiving NPK and Zn solely through fertilizers ● Rajender Dhaincha, Hisar local, LJ 36, Co 1, LJ 30, MD (S) 1, LJ 31, EC 95553 of Sesbania and PAU (C) 1 and NDUAT (C) 2 of Crotolaria were found promising accessions for green manure CROP PRODUCTION Cropping Systems Research To address the ill-effects of continuous rice-wheat cropping, efforts were made to find out suitable alternative cropping systems. At Modipuram, rice-potato- sunflower, rice-wheat-greengram and sugarcane ratoon-wheat were identified as promising alternative cropping systems with annual net returns of Rs 53,613, Rs. 41,196 and Rs 40,034 per hectare, respectively, as against Rs 30,938 per hectare in rice-wheat. Under sub-humid ecosystem, at Pantnagar, rice-vegetable pea-summer rice, at Sabour, rice-potato-sunflower; at Varanasi, rice-maize + field pea-cowpea (F) followed by rice-potato-green gram; at Bhubaneswar, rice-maize-greengram; at Chiplima, rice-tomato-lady’s finger and at Sehore, blackgram-chickpea systems were identified as more remunerative. Under humid ecosystem, at Palampur, rice- toria-potato and at Nadia, rice-cabbage-rice followed by rice-potato-groundnut were identified as viable replacement for rice-wheat system. In coastal ecosystem at Thanjavur, rice-rice-pigeonpea and groundnut-rice-blackgram gave higher economic returns. In arid ecosystem at Hisar, soybean-wheat-cowpea (F) was found economically viable.Under semi arid ecosystem at Kanpur, maize-potato-sunflower followed by rice-mustard-sunflower; at Parbhani, soybean-onion; at Rudrapur, soybean-sunflower and at Rajendranagar, marigold-sunflower followed by maize- potato were identified as more remunerative cropping systems. Sulphitation Pressmud as Organic Manure for Rice-Wheat System Sulphitation press mud (SPM) is a byproduct of the sugarcane industry and is used as an organic nutrient source to meet the crop demands in intensive rice-wheat system was studied at Modipuram in a long-term experiment initiated in 1993-94. Results of the last seven rice-wheat cycles indicated that combined use of fertilizer NPK (75% of recommended dose) and SPM (to supply 25% of recommended N dose) in rice significantly out-yielded the treatment receiving NPK and Zn solely through fertilizers.