 Approximately two million people are involved in cashew cultivation, processing, and marketing directly or indirectly of which over 70% of the cashew area is cultivated by small and marginal farmers, and cashew plays an important role in their development. However, little is known about how farmers may increase cashew production in line with climate-friendly farming practices as the cashew sector is vulnerable to adverse effects of climate change, ultimately lowering the production. 2. Description (Background) Current crop management practices rely on labour-based systems. However, to increase the production digital technologies are being integrated into smart farming solutions in some countries worldwide. For instance, TechnoServe is implementing the CajuLab project in Benin, in partnership with Wehubit, to promote farmers' adoption of climate- smart agricultural practices using emerging technological solutions, including drones and machine learning. However, in the Indian scenario the adaption of digital farming practices are yet to be shaped in the agriculture industry especially in the cashew farming. The cashew tree is endangered by many fungal and algal diseases, which result in significant yield losses. In particular, powdery mildew, damping off, anthracnose, and inflorescence blight are considered significant in a few cashew-growing regions. In order to take timely countermeasures against plant diseases and infections, it is imperative to monitor them regularly. In addition to anthracnose, a few insect pests also infest cashew at specific times and cause damage. Certain pests may not pose a problem in some regions, but they could pose a problem in others. To prevent economic loss, separate spraying of pesticides may be necessary during certain periods. In order to manage the crop efficiently and continually, a drone fitted with a camera will be used to take pictures aerially. These pictures will be transmitted to the data processing system as part of the Intelligent Crop Monitoring and Warning System. A platform built on the Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence, processes these images. These images can help to determine the stage of infestation, the crops affected; how to prevent the TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 68 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 69 spread of the disease, and what type & quantity of pesticides to use. These UAVs can also protect crops from animal and human predators. The purpose of agricultural drones is to optimize agricultural operations, increase crop production, and monitor crop growth. Farmers can monitor their fields using sensors and digital imaging.