 Based upon the interaction of selected farmers, an understanding was developed between the farmers and facilitators in selection of the experimental sites, implementation of the programme and collection of the pertinent data. The critical inputs required for the investigation like implements and seeds of improved variety of tomato (cv. Kanchana) were provided by the project. The farmers contributed for the investigation in terms of land preparation, transplanting, imposition of the treatments and harvesting of the experimental produce. The pertinent data of the investigation were jointly collected by the farmers and Fig. 1. Pingali dhanti Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE facilitators. This process facilitated increase in the participation of the farming community and also brought awareness on the utility of indigenous implement and recording the farmers' indicators on the efficiency and effectiveness of the implement under their own situations. Each farmer was treated as a replication, and statistical analysis of data was done for various parameters to find out actual effectiveness of the treatments. The parameters such as field capacity, weeding efficiency and draft of the implements were worked out based upon the following formulae. Field capacity: It is the actual average rate of field coverage by the implement (ha/day) Weeding efficiency: It is the ratio of weeds removed by interculture implement or weeding tool to the weeds present in the field. Weeding efficiency was computed by the formula: Wn =[ (Wc-Wt)Wc] x 100 where Wn =Weeding efficiency Wc =Total weed count before weeding/unit area Wt =Total weed count after weeding/unit area Draft of implement: The horizontal component of pull requirement to pull each implement was measured using spring-type dynamometer (kg). Energy expenditure: To obtain better comparative results, the energy required to carry out interculture and weeding operations under each treatment was converted into energy units using standard conversion factors, and the total energy expenditure per hectare was calculated. The specifications of the implements used to implement the validation of ITK are as follows: Pingali dhanti: Frame width: 25 cm; frame length: 30 cm; height of the frame at the blade point: 60 cm; effective blade length: 30 cm; total weight of the implement: 45 kg; cost Rs. 700/- (Fig. 1). Traditional blade harrow: Frame length: 53 cm; height of the frame at the blade point: 38 cm; effective blade length: 29 cm; total weight of the implement: 25 kg; cost Rs 700. The experiment was conducted in Meerkhanpet village with four treatments: T1, interculture with pingali dhanti; T2, interculture with blade harrow; T3, T1, + hand weeding, twice; and T4, T2 + hand weeding twice. The gross plot size was 60 x 16 m. Each treatment was replicated 5 times in 5 farmers' fields.