 {a) Honours/awards etc: (b) (i) Membership of professional societies: (n) Offices and cornminee assignment held in professional societies: (c) Special 1nv11a1ions (this should refer to specific invitations lo an indi- vidual to present a paper before professionally oriented meeting or to participate/conduc1 a seminar): (d) Special assignments (list each one giving dates and brielly describe the work done): \e) Duration of absence from the institute, for foreign visits, etc. dming lhe five/seven year period (the number of months may be specified): 7. How would you rate your overall performance in each of the priority areas as mdicated m item 5 above Prioruy area 1 on a 0-5 scale (]=poor; 2=below 2 average; 3-aven:ige;4=above average; and 5"-outstanding). Please mdicate appropriate score 3 for each area. 4 Total score 5 Assigned score 8. Is there any other type of work than your presem job/assignment that you would rather do in the instirnte or outside? If yes, please indicate. 9. Please give below the productivity and projection table in respectofthe work done by you during the period under review. This part is intended to be both an evaluation as we!! as a projection of furure programme of action. It seeks infonnatwn on the past performance and projected outpm of work. Inability to meet projec1ed !argets/expec1a1ions nexl year would not necessarily mean insufficient or poor performance. Due consideration will be given to the reasons for not completing certain pro- jected targets. Proper care should, however, be taken in making fuhire projec- tion; for you may have to evaluate your perfonnance next year against th· obiectives you set for yourself now. Please indicate numbers only. IC AR HANDBOOK OF TECHNlC AL SERVICES n (The items included in the statement are only illustrative and not exhaustive). Past 5n years Proposed to do next year ---~--------------------- 1. Technical support for Scientific work such as: number of animals managed area of land/fish ponds managed number of projects served others (please specify) 2. Training and teachmg work such as: course (to be) taught special lectures/talks given by member/chairman/student advisory commillees others (please specify) 3. Extension education work, such as: radio/leievision talks field trips exhibitions farmers/cultivators(to be) contacted others (please specify) 4. Team-work and co--operation mentioning specifically inter-disciplinary, inter-instituliona! and intra-institutional activities in which you were involved 5. Institution building activities such as: membership ln the institutional committees membership in special committees/task-force organizing seminars/symposia in the institution any others (please specify) (Continued) " fCAR HANDBOOK OF TECHN!CAL SERVICES 6. Unpublished reports, papers, etc. 7.