16: Funds to Establish Livestock Farmers Training Hostel at Jabalpur, Mhow and Rewa MPPCVV, Jabalpur mentioned that to provide livestock related animal husbandry trainings to the farmers, there is an urgent need for establishment of Farmers Training Hostel of 50 bed capacity at Livestock Farm Jabalpur, Mhow and Rewa. It was suggested to take the matter later on. Agenda 24.17: AICRP on improvement of nondescript Jebu Cattle in MP MPPCVV, Jabalpur presented the agenda. It was mentioned that the critical review of AICRP Centres will be undertaken from April, 2011 onwards. Agenda 24.18: Establishment of Post harvest technology Research Centre at, MPPCVV, Jabalpur MPPCVV, Jabalpur mentioned that an advance post harvest technology research centre is highly essential to cater the needs of the consumers as well as to support profitable technologies to the farmers for value addition. It was suggested to take it up in XIIth Plan. Agenda 24.19: More support for HTEL Units SVVU, Tiruapti mentioned that HTEL units are to be created in all the colleges. However, ICAR has given very few units to each university. ICAR may consider sanctioning some more units to Universities. It was suggested to consider it in XIIth plan. Agenda 24.20: Provision of fund assistance for companion animal research KVAFSU, Bidar mentioned that in order to boost the research in canines and to convert this into Institute for Canine Research large amount of fund support is required and the Council is requested to support this cause by way of grants. The matter will be included in XIIth plan. Agenda 24.21: Diversification of Agriculture through Agro-Forestry CCSHAU, Hisar mentioned that the infrastructure and support services for agroforestry are inadequate. Seeds of multipurpose tree species, quality planting materials and access to nurseries and other sources of inputs are not adequately developed. The point was noted. Agenda 24.22: Policy of funding by ICAR in respect of AICRPs etc. may be given a re-look and ICAR may consider to allot additional fund to the SAUs in order to enable the SAUs to extend better and meaningful infrastructural support to these Projects 34 BCKV, Mohanpur presented the agenda. It was decided that the critical review of AICRP Centres will be undertaken from April 2011 onwards. Agenda 24.23: Establishment of Agriculture Polytechnics in RRS for production of Semi-technical manpower in the field of agriculture UBKV, Cooch Behar, West Bengal presented the agenda. The issue was discussed. Agenda 24.24: Research aim for Agriculture Produce Traceability, quality and farm management applications BCKV, Mohanpur emphasised that research aim should be to develop appropriate value chain to meet the global standard of the produce. It was suggested to give emphasis on the matter in XIIth Plan. Agenda 24.