 • Rainwater collection is often devoid of various pollutants and man-made toxins. Spending less on general property upkeep and landscaping requirements can be accomplished by using water that is pure and healthy for plants and trees. Roof top rainwater harvesting in Banka Soak pit water harvesting methods in Banka Jalkund for life saving irrigation Indian Farming 21 July 2023 Way forward This is likely to be most complicated part of system and consist of several components. Design will depend on factors related to intended use water demand, relationship of the harvested water system to supplementary sources of water. Disinfection may include UV sterilization, ozonation, chlorination and filtration systems such as Nano- filtration and reverse osmosis. Water treatment may take place at the point-of-entry into the house, at point-of-use taps or combination. This technology is spreading horizontally in other villages by the seeing effect of NICRA village. SUMMARY Implementing a low-cost roof top Rainwater Harvesting System in residential property is one of the solutions proposed by KVK, Banka for rising of water table. Main aim of this study was to investigate the level of understanding of rainwater harvesting system among villagers and their socio-economic changes. This includes investigating barriers that occur in implementing the system and identifying key drivers that will courage them to implement the system. The amount of rain that can be harvested by a roof depends on the roof footprint (horizontal projection of roof surface) and amount that is lost by evaporation, diversion by roof washer and leakage. A perfectly flat roof would have the largest possible footprint but would be suboptimal because it would not allow for effective draining or roof washing. The amount of water that can be harvested and stored must be large enough to supply water during period of drought. The sources of information for average rainfall often can be used to estimate the number of continuous drought days in an area. *Corresponding author’s email: raghubar.bhu@gmail.com Indian Farming 22 July 2023 Linseed: An oilseed crop harnessing the power of nature Parkash Verma, Supriya*, Rakesh Kumar, Birendra Kumar and Bal Krishna ICAR-National Dairy Research Institute, Karnal, Haryana 132 001 Linseed, also known as flaxseed, is an oilseed crop that has gained significant attention in the field of agronomy due to its numerous benefits. With its versatile nature, linseed holds immense potential not only as a cash crop but also as a source of nutrition and industrial applications. The oil extracted from linseed is rich in omega-3 fatty acids, making it highly sought after in the food and health industry. Its nutritional properties contribute to improved cardiovascular health and cognitive function, leading to increased demand for linseed oil-based products such as cooking oils, dietary supplements, and salad dressings.