 It is simple, easy, inexpensive and has no side effect (Bharuch, Gujarat). Patel (1994a) 153 Treatment for urinary trouble by sodium bicarbonate Approximately 500 g of sodium bicarbonate is dissolved in one litre water and resulted solution is given to the animal having urinary trouble (Bhandaria). Virambhai (1992) 154 Treatment for rinderpest by fruit of Shorea robusta 250 g of sakhu fruit (Shorea robusta) powder is dissolved in water and given twicw a day till its cure (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 155 Treatment for rinderpest by extract of tobacco A filtered solution of tobacco dissolved in lime water is given thrice a day or more depending upon the condition (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 156 Treatment for rinderpest by turmeric A mixture of tirtulated turmeric and sooran (Amorphophalus campanulatus) mixed with curd is drenched to affected animals. It cures animals within 8-10 hrs as reported by local people (Eastern Uttar Pradesh). Gupta (1993) 157 Control of arthritis in camels by sesamum Sesamum oil and sugar are mixed together in equal proportions and rubbed on the skin over the oil and sugar affected part of the camels body twice a day for three or four days. Most camel keepers in this region are aware of this practice (Mahesana, Gujarat). Joytabhai (1993) 158 When animal stops ruminating Sometimes animal stops ruminating and suffers from following symptoms : (a) it stops drinking water and eating food, (b) the left side of its body gets swollen and (c) after ten to twelve days the skin on its body dries and starts peeling. The following treatment are given : 200 to 300 g leaves of drumstick (Moringa spp.) are crushed by hand and mixed with 500 g jaggery. This mixture is then dissolved in water and given to the animal. After this the bark of hingori (Balanites spp.) is crushed in 200 ml water and then ground in to a paste. This paste is given just once to the animal to bring relief. If the animals skin becomes dry or cracks then some jaggery water solution is applied to the skin (Sabarkantha, Gujarat). Taral (1997) 210 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 159 Rejuvenating milk veins To prevent occlusion of milk vein (or any problems) in the udders of cattle, the extract of certain creeper is fed to the animal in the village Mahuvaria of Surat district. About 500 g of creepers of manson are soaked in water till the water becomes milky-white owing to the latex in the plant. Sometimes the creepers are squeezed lightly to extract more latex to last for two days. The mixture is filtered and the filtrate is given to animal for two days. The treatment takes effect within a week. It is a widely used practice in the surrounding villages too. The manson, a creeper, grows mainly in hilly areas during monsoon. It has small stick like leaves and white flowers (Surat, Gujarat).