 Additionally, it has been observed that there has been a gradual decrease in net land per family for shifting cultivation and an increase in permanent agricultural land per family, with figures decreasing from 1.1 to 0.7 ha per family for shifting cultivation and increasing from 0.35 to 0.74 ha per family for permanent agriculture. Despite covering 8.8% of country’s total geographical area, region continues to be a net importer of food grains, contributing only 1.5% to country’s total food grain production. The growing population in many regions has necessitated a transition towards settled cultivation. From 1970-71, net land under shifting agriculture decreased from 87,220 ha to 84,002 ha in 1995-96. Conversely, land under permanent agriculture increased from 28,006 ha in 1970-71 to 81,281 ha. Renovation crops and pastures are cultivated with primary goals of improving soil fertility, reducing weed pressure, and increasing soil organic matter. A similar concept has been tested in lowland areas to generate biomass on-site for soil fertility management and decrease reliance on external inputs like fertilizers. Hedge row species such as Tephrosia spp, Cajanus cajan, and others are grown on raised bunds in alternate patterns within lowland rice field. This practice generates substantial amount of biomass to supplement nutrient requirements of rice. It involves intercropping arable crops in spaces between two rows of hedge or leguminous shrubs. The width of these alleys varies from 2-5 m depending on factors like slope and plant species involved. In Northeastern region of India, suitable leguminous shrubs for alley cropping include Crotolaria, Tephrossia, Casia, Acacia, Cajanus cajan, Flemingia, Indigofera spp., among others. Ginger, turmeric, maize, and similar crops are cultivated within alleys. The height of the hedge rows is typically maintained at~1 m through regular pruning. Pruned biomass is either used as mulch or incorporated into soil as a nutrient source. Intercropping in spaces between hedgerows is a proven & sustainable technology for the NEH region. Hedgerows grown along contours contribute to development of natural terraces within a few years. Green biomass, including leaves and twigs, of these hedge row species is rich in essential nutrients, particularly N, P, and K. This cultivation system effectively reduces erosion, conserves soil moisture, and retains nutrients within the soil. On average, pruning of N-fixing hedgerow species adds ~20- 80 kg/ha/year of N, 3-4 kg/ha/year of P, and 8-38 kg/ ha/year of K. Addition of leaf biomass from hedge row species significantly improves fertility status of soil. CONCLUSION Renovation crops and pastures play a crucial role for enhancing soil fertility, reducing weed pressure, and increasing soil organic matter. In Northeast region of India, leguminous shrubs such as Crotolaria, Tephrossia, Casia, Acacia, Cajanus cajan, Flemingia, Indigofera spp., and others are well-suited as alley crops.