 In order to address the concerns of quality higher agricultural education, the National Agricultural Education Accreditation Board (NAEAB) was established to advise the Council in evolving norms and standards for accreditation of institutions and programmes of agricultural education. The Board started accreditation of Agricultural Universities in the year 2001. Recently, it has reorganized with more objective assessment. Thus, the new guidelines for accreditation follow three tier accreditation system i.e. Programme, College and University. Scorecard based evaluation, awarding grades, provision for grievance redressal and preliminary examination of Self Study Reports by Regional Centres are some of the new features in the revised guidelines. Introduction of Scorecard based on the criteria, key aspects and its pre-determined weightage; together with grading of agricultural universities are expected to inculcate transparency and competitiveness in the accreditation process. Gandhian Philosophy of Agricultural Education 150 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR 4. Conclusion Though the current situation is completely different from the time of Mahatma, his educational thoughts are quite relevant for the overall development of human resources in agriculture and allied sciences. An attempt has been made in this chapter to discuss how the curricula of agricultural universities are developed based on the Gandhi’s educational thoughts. His philosophy of education is not only the eradication of illiteracy but learning by doing. This concept has been fully integrated in the agricultural education in the country. In both undergraduate and post-graduate programmes, the practical component is being given higher weightage with an idea that the students would be learning while doing. Especially, the Student READY, which is a mandatory component of all the under graduate programmes in agriculture and allied sciences encompassed RAWE and Experiential Learning based on this concept. He preaches the doctrine of simple living and high thinking. His education systems greatly emphasize the culture of peace, sincere work, dedication to the nation, right feelings, economic advancement, physical improvement and socio-cultural progress. While framing the syllabus, the due importance is being given for the development of national human resources capital in the field of agriculture and making our graduates professionally competent, socially sensitive and ethically strong. On the path of Gandhian philosophy, the highest priority has been given to agricultural education for the alleviation of hunger, undernutrition, poverty and inequity. Accordingly, the framework of agricultural education has been designed to ensure excellence, relevance, and creation of skilled and entrepreneurial human resources to achieve high quality of products, farmers profitability, high input and natural resources use efficiency and inclusiveness.