 This change might come in the form of cropland expansion into grassland and intensification of land use, both factors that contribute to reaching the Zero Hunger sustainable development goal. A further driver of change could be an increasing demand for biofuel in India and globally (Hinz et al., 2020). In the UN decade of eco- system restoration (2021–2030), the conservation and restoration of open ecosystems such as the agriculture– savanna mosaics studied by us need urgent reevaluation. Given the long-lasting legacies of land use and land cover change in Indian savannas, defining a baseline time period to which the ecosystem can be “restored” would be a challenging task. While calling for a reevaluation of agricultural landscapes, our study also underscores the land-sharing potential of these ecosystems (Agger et al., 2024; Fischer et al., 2014) to argue that restora- tion of these landscapes will require ecologically and economically sustainable solutions. Savanna grasslands on the Indian subcontinent host over 200 species of endemic plants, approximately half of which were only described in the past two decades (Nerlekar et al., 2022; Ratnam et al., 2016). Semi- perennial crops like sugarcane may be economically more viable in the short term, but the sustainability of further expansion and intensification of sugarcane agri- culture in the western Indian landscape is questionable in the changing climate, stochasticity of the monsoon, depleting water tables, and degrading soil quality (Ghosh et al., 2012; Singh, 2016). Potential stagnation or decline in sugarcane yield over the past two decades is likely due to inadequate soil and water resource man- agement and already highlights the economic chal- lenges in continued intensive production (Dingre, 2023; Upreti & Singh, 2017). For long, agricultural development in western India has been characterized by the expansion of sugarcane, a heavily irrigated semi-perennial cash crop that became the financial cornerstone of agriculture in the state of Maharashtra in the 1950s (Attwood & Attwood, 2019; Lee et al., 2020). The area used for sugarcane in our study region tripled between 1998 and 2020, largely on former grasslands (Tian et al., 2014). Today, this region is one of the key sugar producers globally. While emphasizing the high conservation value of agriculture–savanna mosaic landscapes, we advocate for curbing the further expan- sion of semi-perennial cash crops such as sugarcane in favor of protecting the remaining savannas in the Indian subcontinent. Continued loss of savannas to agricultural intensification will further contribute to the loss of avian biodiversity, especially Palearctic migratory birds that spend a significant portion of their life cycle in the subcontinent. Globally, agricultural fields are getting bigger with better technology and changing government policies (White & Roy, 2015).