 ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 62 Foliar fungal disease/ fruit rots Collection and destruction of fallen leaves. Bury the diseased mummified fruits in compost pits. Marssonina sooty blotch, and Flyspeck Dip the harvested fruits in 5% sodium bi-carbonate solution for 10 minutes and wipe with clean coarse cloth. Root rot Drench tree basin of affected tree with Carbendazim 50 WP @ 0.1% or Carbendazim 12% + Mancozeb 63% 75WP @ 0.5%. Apply fungicide suspension in 15-20 cm deep holes at 30 cm distance throughout the tree basin. Collar rot Clean the affected collar area and apply Chaubatia or Bordeux paste. Drench the soil under tree canopy with Metalaxyl MZ 72WP @ 0.5% or Mancozeb 75WP @ 0.6% or Copper oxychloride 50 WP 0.6%. Pear Late varieties that have not been harvested in the previous month i.e., Beurre Hardy (Kharpaddur) (139-150 DAFB), Vicar of winkfield (Satarvatikalan) (143- 154 DAFB) Walnut Harvesting should be done only after ensuring that packing tissue of nuts has turned brown and hull removal is easy. Collect and dispose of fallen fruits to kill immature grubs inside fruit. Properly dry the nuts before storage in ventilated rooms for controlling kernel rot. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 63 Chestnut Nut should be harvested promptly so that they will not be on the ground for more than two days otherwise kernels get spoiled quickly due to high temperatures. Hazelnuts Nuts should be harvested when the husks begin to yellow, but before they start to drop from the tree. Sheep and Goat Due to severe winter outside grazing resources are limited or there is non-availability of fodders outside. The animals are mostly stall-fed during this period and are housed in closed shelters. Further, the period coincides with advances stage of gestation and parturition. As such for augmenting the performance of sheep and goat it is advised as under November and December Allow grazing in the community pastures Due to decrease in grazing resources, gradual shift to intensive feeding should be done. Dry fodder (Sorghum/oats) should be provided @ 0.5 kg/animal and pelleted feed @ 300 gm/adult and 200 gm/weaner from 1st week of Dec. Dry fodder should be gradually increased to 1to 1.5 kg/animal and concentrate/pelleted feed up to @ 500 gm/adult and 400 gm/young stock by last week. Sanitation and cleanness in and around the livestock sheds should be maintained. Multicomponent Clostridial vaccination (MCC)/ ETV to pregnant ewes before one month of expected date of lambing should be ensured for protection against Lamb dysentery, Struck, Pulpy kidney disease, Black disease, and Braxy. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 64 Broad spectrum anthelmintic (pregnancy safe) dosing to pregnant ewes should be ensured before 7-15 days of expected date of lambing as advised by veterinarian. January and February Avoid overcrowding of pregnant stock. Ensure ETV vaccination if not done till date.