 For the same reason, it was also decided that the 'Freedom to Operate' analysis as desired by the University of Ottawa in its e-mail correspondence with Dr. P. Ananda Kumar is not required at this stage. The meeting ended with a vote of ihanks to the House and the Chair. •. • 

1 Proceedings of Sixth Annual Review Meeting of Niche Area of Excellence The VI annual review meeting was organized under the chairmanship of Dr. S. Ayyappan Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR on 21st June, 2012 at 9:00 AM in the DG’s committee room, Krishi Bhawan. In addition to the PIs and Co-PIs of the various NAE centres, the following ICAR officials and resource persons participated in the meeting: 1. Dr. P. L. Gautam, Chairperson, PPVFRA, New Delhi 2. Dr. Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.) 3. Dr. M. M. Pandey, DDG (Engg.) 4. Dr. Meenakumari, DDG (Fy.) 5. Dr. K.M.L. Pathak, DDG (AS) 6. Dr A. P. Singh, VC, DUVASU, Mathura 7. Dr. R. P. Sharma, Former Director, NRCPB 8. Dr. H. S. Gupta, Director, IARI 9. Dr. Ashok Bhatia, Ex-Advisor, CSIR 10. Dr. C. Devakumar, ADG (EPD) 11. Dr. T.P.Rajendran, ADG (PP) 12. Dr. Dr K.K. Singh, ADG (PE) 13. Dr. Madan Mohan, ADG (Fy.) 14. Dr. B.S. Prakash, ADG (ANP) 15. Dr. J. N. Kataria, Jt. Director (Research), IVRI and 16. Dr. (Mrs) M. Dadlani, Jt. Director (Research), IARI Dr. Arvind Kumar, DDG (Edn.) welcomed the chairman, experts, DDGs, ADGs, PIs/Co-PIs and other participants for the review meeting. He informed that the annual review meeting has become one of the regular programmes of Education Division and it has helped in refining the objectives and technical programmes of the centres of the NAE. In today’s meeting’ eight centres would present their progress and seek technical and administrative guidance in pursuing the path of niche with excellence in the chosen area. Dr. S. Ayyappan, Secretary, DARE & DG, ICAR welcomed all experts and other participants. He reiterated that this concept of NAE is to build a school around an idea of local relevance with global standards. It is not a project but a support for the chosen centre to grow in an interdisciplinary mode creating a brand value for the university. Centres must undertake to carryout training programmes for the targeted students and faculty so that a pool of trained manpower in the area is created and sustained within NARS. The PIs made brief presentations covering the objectives, technical programme (2011-12), the achievements made and the technical programme (2012-13) with concomitant demand of the budget. 1. Dr. Anna Mercy, PI of the center “Integrated Centre for Ornamental fish Research, Training and Management”, KUFOS explained her difficulties in not making a headway in the programme and reluctantly requested closure of the centre. It was resolved that the centre should be closed and the university may be asked to refund the grant released. The VC who 2 joined later sought the permission to change the PI and continue the centre.