 • Third inspection shall be made immediately after haulms cutting/destruction to verify that the haulms have been cut/destroyed by the prescribed date and in proper manner. Failure to cut/destroy the haulms by the specified time shall render the crop liable for rejection. • Fourth inspection shall be made about 10 days after haulms cutting/destruction to verify that no re-growth of the haulms have taken place. • Details of previous history of the field such as previous crop, field operations carried out, manures and pesticides applied to the crop should be made available to the inspection team. • The crop should be inspected by taking a minimum count of 100 plants from 4 locations selected randomly in a zig zag manner per ha of the crop. For every additional hectare or part thereof 2 samples of 100 plants should be examined. Observations for each count should be filled in the relevant pro forma and the overall appraisal of these counts inspected shall form the basis of selection or rejection of the seed crop. • The graded produce should be inspected for size grades and surface borne diseases. Since, large scale production of Gen. 0 is quite cumbersome on account of stringent measures involved in the maintenance and production of healthy mother stocks, the subsequent field multiplications of such precious planting material is necessity for the generation of required quantities of breeder seed. Keeping in view this, two field multiplications of Gen. 0 material as Gen. 1 (pre-breeder seed) and Gen. 2 (breeder seed) are followed for the production of breeder seed potatoes at ICAR-CPRI. Planting method and spacing I. The minitubers produced in net/poly house condition/ aeroponics is Generation-0 (Gen. 0), should be multiplied in Generation-1 (Gen. 1) at a spacing of 30-40 × 10-15 cm depending upon the size of minituber. The produce of Gen. 1 is called as pre- basic seed. II. The produce of Gen. 1 (pre-basic seed) is further multiplied in generation-II (Gen. 2) at a spacing of 60 cm × 20 cm and the produce of Gen. 2 is called as breeder seed or basic seed. Field testing of seed crop In Generation-I (Gen. 1), test randomly selected 300 plants/ha by ELISA. In Generation-II (Gen. 2) only 150 plants/ha should be tested through ELISA. Rogue out all the diseased as well as off-type plants observed during field inspection. General crop husbandry The general crop husbandry operations for Gen. 1 and 2 under Hi-tech system are the same as for Conventional system of seed potato production. The only difference lies in the field multiplication of mini-tubers under Gen. 1 where on account of small size of mintubers the spacing is to be maintained closer and thus plant populations are higher. Quality control Quality control test is done to determine the genetic purity of a given seed lot of released cultivars and the extent to which the given sample confirms to the prescribed standards.