 (2022) assessed the various distributions for computing the Evaporative Demand Drought Index (EDDI) and determined that parametric methods, specifically those using the log-logistic distribution, were more reliable and accurate compared to the original non-parametric approach by Hobbins et al. (2016) across various time scales and climatic conditions. Parametric approaches, which assume a specific probability distri- bution for the data are better at modeling distribution tails corre- sponding to the most extreme values (Vicente-Serrano and Beguería, 2016). They are not restricted by the highest and lowest observed values within a dataset. By fitting data to a theoretical distribution such as gamma or log-logistic distributions used in this study, new values that extend beyond the observed maximum and minimum can still be adequately modelled (Beguería et al., 2014; Stagge et al., 2015; Vicente- Serrano and Beguería, 2016; Noguera et al., 2022). For example, when a drought index encounters a new minimum or maximum that is more extreme than previous records, parametric methods can still easily integrate them within the range of a broader theoretical distribution. This capability is less feasible with non-parametric methods, which can only interpolate within the range of existing data and might fail to adequately represent these extremes (Sol´akov´a et al., 2014). The non- parametric approach is still flexible especially when the appropriate distribution for the data is unknown. They do not require adopting a specific probability distribution for reference variables like SM, pre- cipitation, and PET. This lack of assumption about a representative probability distribution eliminates the need to estimate parameters and assess goodness-of-fit, providing a computational advantage (Farahmand and AghaKouchak, 2015). However, as previously mentioned, non-parametric methods struggle with extrapolation when faced with new extremes. In summary, the assumption of a parametric distribution aids in fitting extreme values by allowing the model to extend beyond observed data, capture distribution tails effectively, provide consistent analysis across different contexts, and accurately assess anomalies. This makes parametric methods particularly adept at handling and extreme drought classes. The drought classes and their respective DARs by all four indices are also distributed along the total length of study period and represented in Table 1. The observations from Table 1 shows that the 83 %, 89 %, 79 % and 75 % of the DARs are affected by near normal and mild droughts that are spread along 30 % or more of the total length of the study period as identified by SSMI, ESSMI, SPI and SPEI respectively.