 Keywords: fish-washed water, Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2474 Application of raw cowdung for storage of pumpkin To increase the keeping quality of pumpkin , raw cowdung is applied on the peduncle of a harvested pumpkin, which preserves it for a longer period. Bacteriophase present in the cowdung kills other insects that attack pumpkin and cause damage. About 60-70% damage is controlled by this method. About 70% villagers of Chiplima block of Sambalpur district in Orissa use this practice since 40-50 years. Keywords: raw cowdung, storage of pumpkin, bacteriophase Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32 , Shatabdi Nagar, Unit-8, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2486 Spraying of gold -dipped water Gold- dipped water is sprayed on Communicated by: in cucurbits cucurbit plants when there is a problem of fruit setting. Some farmers in Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir believe that fruit setting takes place in normal manner by spraying of gold- dipped water in cucurbits. Keywords: gold-dipped water, fruit setting Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2380 Dusting of ash in cucurbits to check insect pest Cucurbit plants have major problem of insect-pest infestation, causing great damage to the plant. The practice of dusting cucurbits with ash is prevailing in and around all parts of Jammu region of Jammu and Kashmir. Under this measure, cucurbit plants are dusted with the ash. The ash after coming in contact with the plant surface forms an outer layering. It prevent the insects from eating the plant by making it unpalatable to them. Keywords: ash, cucurbit plant, unpalatable Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2303 Preservation of garlic bulbs for home consumption in earthen pot For home consumption, the garlic bulbs are preserved to retain their aroma, pungency and freshness in earthen pots. The bulb are stored in earthen pot and the mouth of the pot is tied with cloth. The garlic bulbs remain fresh for 1 year at very low cost.People of rural areas of Jalgaon and Ahmednagar districts of Maharashtra are using this preservation technique.