 Farmer identification system The stakeholders opined that implementing uniform farmer identi­ fication systems will enable smallholders to access the credit easily. It will also simplify the application process and ensure transparency and accountability in lending. They are of the opinion that this system re­ duces the risk of exclusion and enhances trust between farmers and financial institutions. A farmer opined that, “With a proper identification system, it's easier to prove that I'm a genuine farmer. This helps banks quickly recognize my eligibility for loans, making the process smoother and more transparent” (P 15). Additionally, they also stated that it will reduce the chances of fraud activity. “This system reduces the chance of fraud by ensuring that only true farmers get access to credit. Still, there's a need for more training so that every farmer understands how to use it effectively and benefits from formal credit channels.” (P 46). On the other hand, bank managers were also supporting the single identification system which they believed will increase the trust be­ tween farmers and finance service providers. Furthermore, they pro­ pounded that this collaborative ecosystem is a greater step for financial inclusion. “A comprehensive farmer identification system lays the foundation for a collaborative ecosystem among banks, government agencies, and finan­ cial service providers and farmers. This synergy can drive innovation in tailored financial products for farmers, while also ensuring that the sys­ tem is responsive to on-ground challenges. For us, it represents a step towards greater financial inclusion” (P 30). 3.1.3. Tailored credit schemes Considering the diversified agricultural system in India, participants stated that customized financial credit schemes that align with cycles of different farming communities and their geographical location, crop- specific loan will have a marked improvement in credit uptake. This approach ensures that the credit schemes are relevant and beneficial for farmers unique circumstances. “As a farmer, I often feel overwhelmed by the complex paperwork and rigid loan processes of traditional banks. A tailored credit scheme that considers our seasonal income patterns and simplifies documentation would make a huge difference. It shows that the system is built for us, reducing our fears and building trust. This approach makes it easier to apply for and secure affordable credit, which is exactly what we need” (P 15). Furthermore, stakeholders believed that alternative collateral options with tailored credit schemes helps reduce the psychological stress associated with rigid, high-stakes collateral demands. “I look forward to a time when banks understand our farming realities. Instead of demanding our most valuable asset, they could accept alter­ native collateral such as harvest pledges or community-backed guaran­ tees, making loan approval less stressful and more farmer-friendly.” (P 5). 3.2.