 (2000) 247 Medicinal uses of Costus speciosus Root, tuber of kemuka (Costus speciosus) contain beta- sitosterol, saponin and are used as astrigent, purgative, depurative, stimulant, tonic, anthelmintic, digestive, antiinflamatory, antiarthritic, catarhal fevers, cough, dyspepsia, skin disease, snake bites, tuber cooked and make into syrup as tonic. Parabia et al. (2000) 248 Medicinal uses of Crataeva nurvala, C.religiosa Bark, rootbark, leaves, fruits, flowers of tapia Crataeva nurvala) which contain lepeol-triterpeniods, beta-sitosterols, crategin, tartaric and cratagegus acids, pectin and fattyacids, glucose and fructose, amygdalin and emulsin, trimethylamine and are used as laxative, alterative, cholagogue, dyspepsia, heart disease such as hypo trophy, heart depression, urinary complaints, fevers, vomiting, gastric irritation, removal of stones from ureter and urinary bladder, obstructive uropathy. Parabia et al. (2000) 249 Medicinal uses of Crescentia cujete Bark, leaves and fruit vilayatibel (Crescentia cujete) contain crescentic, tartaric, citric, tannic acids and chlorogenic acid which help as aperient, coolant, febrifuge, diuretic, headache, poisonous to birds. Parabia et al. (2000) 250 Medicinal uses of Croton tiglium Bark, leaf, fruit and root of jamalgota (Croton tiglium) which contain alkaloids, globulin, albumin, sucrose and crotonoside and are used as purgative, vermifuge, alterative, irritant, cattarrh, ribifacient, stimulant and also used in snake bite, liver diseases, dropsy and purgative in animals. Parabia et al. (2000) 251 Medicinal uses of Cuminum ciminum Seed, fruit, oil and flower of shahjio (Cuminum aminum) which contain thymene, thymol, oil, resin, gum are used as carminative, aromatic, stomachic, stimulant, Trigent, galactagogue, cooling agent, used in hoarseness of voice, dyspepsia, chronic, diaarrhoea, gonorrhoea. Parabia et al. (2000) 226 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 252 Ethnomedical uses of black mustard Leaf, seed and oil of kalorai (Brassica nigra) are the important parts containing glucoside mirocine sinigrin, volatile oil, fixed oil and brassic acid. Seed acts as antispasmodic, anti rheumatic, emetic, rubifacient and counter irritant, seed paste when applied on chest cures lung infection. Oil is used as digestive condiment, induce animals in to heat, rubifacient to massage rheumatic joints, massage on chest in pneumonia. Parabia et al. (2000) 253 Medicinal uses of Cuscuta reflexa Plant, seed, fruit and stem of akasbel (Cuscuta reflexa) which contain cuscutin, flavanoid, beta-sitosterol, C.glucoside, bergenin and coumarin which are used as purgative, anthelmintic, anodyne. Parabia et al. (2000) 254 Medicinal properties of lubani salai Gum of lubani salai (Boswellia serrata) is only medicinally important. Resin/gum acts as refrigerant, diuretic, aromatic, emulcent, aperient, alterative, emmenagogue, ecbolic.