 Planning for adaptation based on that will lead us to yield improvement measures also, which is not significant for our system. The bottom-up method has demonstrated that due consideration must be given to the system’s risks, and not all water resources systems need to plan for interventions where climate change is not a risk factor at all. Though the projections show a reduction in paddy yield by 11 %, (Fig. 20), the plausibility analysis indicates that we have the flexibility to delay the adaptation actions directed towards reduced yields. To match supply and demand, potential actions need to be planned now, in response to changes in precipitation and temperature that cause an in­ crease in water demand by paddy. To effectively manage potential changes, a focus on demand management measures such as crop cal­ endar change, crop management measures such as changing inputs, and so on are needed. The analysis in this study is based on an irrigation efficiency of 45 %, as communicated by the stakeholders during the consultations. As part of the Prime Minister’s Krishi Sinchayi Yojana (PMKSY), the Govern­ ment aims to improve the irrigation efficiency by 20 %. As such, we also looked at the changes in performance metrics in cases of improving the irrigation efficiency to 54 % (20 % increase) (Fig. 21). This has improved the risk reduction, but the system is failure is not avoided. When the irrigation efficiency is improved to 63 % (33.3% increase), the system will not fail, implying risk reduction is possible only at high irrigation efficiency. Similarly, the normal yields were also changed to identify the yields at which system failure could be avoided and the yield at which the system will experience complete failure. The yield which the system can maintain without any failure is estimated to be 2.25 t/ha (Fig. 22.a). Future research on phenological improvements, breeding and other crop improvement programs will result in higher yields. As such, we increased the normal yield to find the threshold at which complete Fig. 17. Stress response surfaces for (a) Yield ratio and (b) Supply-demand ratio Fig. 18. Plausibility of climate futures Fig. 19. Risk matrix (Plausibility is represented by the number of RCM projections as shown in Fig. 18, which are falling within the range of performance metric value in the left). A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 20 Fig. 20. Percent change in yield due to climate change in the future, projected by ten RCMs (The notations R1 to R10 are defined in Fig. 12). Fig. 21. Changes to supply demand ratio by improving the irrigation efficiency (a) by 20% and (b) to 63%. Fig. 22. Changes to yield ratio with changes in normal yield (a) 2.25 t/ha (b)5.75 t/ha. A.G. Kamalamma et al. Climate Services 30 (2023) 100358 21 system failure occurs.