 Pulses can also be used for preparation of secondary Indian Farming 14 February 2024 and tertiary ready-to-cook or eat kind processed of products viz. idli, dosa, vada, papad, sev, soup. Usually these products are made from broken pulse obtained from milling of pulses. About 25-30% of grain weight is lost in form of pulses milling byproduct in abrasive dehusking methods, commonly adopted in commercial mills. The byproduct is mostly utilized as an ingredient to cattle or animal feed. In a Ministry of Food Processing Funded Project, food value of milling byproduct obtained from milling of different pulses were evaluated. It was observed that the pulses milling byproduct are rich in proteins, phenols, antioxidants and fibres (water soluble and insoluble). These biochemical parameters were studied for whole grain, dehusked splits, byproducts and fractions of byproduct viz., husk and powder. Husk and powder fractions can be separated using sifters with suitable sieve size. Protein content of powder fraction was observed to be higher than that of dehusked dal, indicating location of proteins in peripheral region of cotyledons. Thus, milling byproduct of pulses can find potential edible usages. Various ready to cook or eat value added products, such as biscuits, cakes, buns, noodles, nachos, soup, instant dal etc., were developed from pulses milling byproducts. Powder fraction separated from the byproduct can be utilized as flour of dal (besan) and can be used for making traditional home recipes. Due to presence of fine husk particles in the powder fraction, the edible products prepared from it will certainly be dark in colour but in no way with lesser proteins, for which pulses are usually consumed. Value added products from pulses milling byproduct Halwa Muffin Idli Noodle Nachos Fortified flour Dal analogue Sattu Biscuit Bun Snacks Dal CONCLUSION Pulses are an integral part of Indian dietary system. For the vegetarian population, requirement of all the essential amino-acids are met through combination diet of cereals and pulses. Despite India being the largest producer of pulses, we are the largest consumer too and depend upon imports to meet our domestic requirements. To make country self-sufficient in pulses, all the efforts are being made to increase production and productivity of pulses. Reduction in postharvest losses at various stages of handling can make more pulse available. Storage and milling are the major areas which contributes maximum to the postharvest losses. Decentralized storage and milling facilities will certainly help in reducing these losses. In commercial pulse mills, abrasive rollers are used for dehusking of grains. These units cause huge milling loss in terms of grain weight. Studies on biochemical aspects of milling byproduct and its fractions indicated that it is rich in nutritional compounds, including proteins and can be used for human consumption.