 In each Institute/Laboratory of the Society, the Chief Officers in Institutes etc. Accounts Officer or the Accounts Officer-in-charge shall be responsible for scrutinising the budget and all proposals involving financial implications, 42 maintenance of accounts and its internal audit They shall advise the Director of the Institute/Laboratory in all financial matters. The Director and/or the Management Committee shall have the power to over-rule his advice after recording reasons therefor. The Accounts Officer concerned will send through the Director a six monthly report of such cases to the Financial Adviser of the Society who shall examine the same place it before the Director- General along with his comments thereon. Substantive Audit 19. (a) Accounts of the Society shall be audited an- nually by such person or persons as may be nominated by the Central Government un- der Rule 76. Any expenditure incurred on or by the Auditors so nominated in connection with such audit shall be borne by the Soci- ety. The audit will be conducted in accordance with the principles and proce- dures as may, from time to time, be laid down by the Government of India in consul- tation with the Comptroller and Auditor- General of India. (b) The Auditors or any other Officer appointed by them in connection with the audit of the accounts of the Society shall have the same rights, privileges and authority in connection with such audit as the Comptroller and Auditor-General of India has in relation to the audit of the Government accounts and in particular shall have the right to demand the production of books, accounts, connected vouchers and other necessary documents and papers. (c) If an expenditure from the funds of the Society consists of grants to any authority or individual under the audit of any Auditor/ Audit Officer of the Government or a Chartered Accountant, the Auditor of the Society will satisfy himself that the purpose of grant is within the scope of Article 4 of the Memorandum of Association. The auditor of the Society will accept a certificate of audit of that Officer or Chartered Accountant in respect of the expenditure from the grants. The Secretary will arrange to obtain and produce a certificate of audit. (d) The accounts of the grantee institutions, associations etc., shall be open to check by the Auditor of the Society. 43 Annual Accounts and Results of Substantive Audit 20. (a) The Secretary shall compile the Annual Accounts of the funds of the Society referred to in Rule 76 within three months of the close j of the financial year in the form as may be prescribed in this behalf in the regulations; to be framed hereinafter under these bye- laws. The form of Annual Accounts shall be approved by the Government of India with j the concurrence of the Comptroller and Auditor-General.