 185 trainings on different nutritional aspects were organized in adopted villages. Total 528 participants participated in the training at different centers. Impact of training on nutritional status, food consumption patterns were assessed and it was found that protein, calcium, iron, caortine content increased in the food intake. 4 Research Achievements of AICRP on Agricultural Extension www.icar.org.in Drudgery Reduction • To reduce drudgery and alleviate health hazards, enhancing efficiency through capacity building. • Seven tools for farm activities, four for animal husbandry and two for household activities were developed and tested. Significant reduction was observed in the heart rate in the individuals using these tools for farm activity. • Energy expenditure for all animal husbandry activities was reduced. • Significant reduction in the heart rate was observed for household activities performed with the improved tools. Empowerment of rural adolescent girls • Intervention of different types have been carried out on knowledge, self esteem, communication skill, parent child relation, mental health etc. In all 1227 adolescent girls were given the intervention programmes. Intervention was effective in improving the knowledge on all the above mentioned indicators. Extension Education – Empowerment of rural women through intervention Training programmes were conducted for rural women on : a) Garment construction, embroidery and paintings b) Storage, herbal garden and income generating activities c) Drudgery reduction d) Preservation and nutritious recipes Total of 13,933 beneficiaries belong to nine states were trained. Impact assessment revealed gain in knowledge, utilization of knowledge and increase in income. Empowerment of rural women for conservation of natural resources • Sources of natural dyes selected for dyeing cotton were root, flowers, leaves, bark, seeds, plant and gums. Dyes were selected on the basis of eco‐friendliness, cost effectiveness, local availability, adoptability and scope for enterprise development. Colour fastness was improved by treatment with vinegar, common salt, alum, lime juice and sodium carbonate. Prevailed samples were evaluated by objective and subjective methods. Mostly Stannous chloride and Ferrous sulphate mordants were found suitable for printing with natural dyes followed by alum. • Printing with natural dyes was found to be viable for adoption. www.icar.org.in 5 2002 ‐ 2007 Linkages building Linkages were developed with 2 International, 19 National, 9 State levels, 5 Local organizations and 2 Industries to strengthen the rural women enterprises. 

2002­07 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Directorate of Information & Publications of Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, New Delhi‐110012 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Animal Sciences 2 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Animal Sciences www.icar.org.in S.No. Project Page No.