 More than 6 lakh informative SNPs were selected for chip designing. The identified SNPs were validated by genotyping of 480 animals of 26 Indian goat breeds, with an overall call rate of 99.8%. A patent application was filed for the high density chip for Capra hircus (Application No. 202011057422). Sheep: Whole genome re-sequencing data generated for 20 geographically diverse, indigenous sheep breeds/ populations was analyzed and more than 300 million SNPs were identified. After stringent quality controls, more than 6 lakh SNP markers were selected for tiling on the array. HD SNP Chip for the sheep was designed. Other species: Whole genome sequencing of the native breeds of chicken, dromedary camel and Bactrian camel, pigs, horse, dogs, yak, donkey and duck, was carried out. Data was generated with 10 X coverage of the genome with approximately 95–100 million paired end (2×150 base pair) reads per animal. The DNA chips for chicken, camel, pig, and yak was designed. Patent application for the chip of chicken and camel has been filed. Pig Pig genetic resources: Ten indigenous pigs were registered and nine crossbred varieties developed. Complete mitochondrial genome of six native breeds, one non-descript, three crossbred and one wild pig were sequenced, and submitted to NCBI. Microsatellite markers (30) were tested to comprehend the uniqueness of these pigs. The ancestral analysis showed that populations of indigenous pigs have distinct and well- structured lineages, and are different from other pig breeds. Poultry Transgenic chicken: The PGC mediated method of transgenesis was standardized to produce transgenic chicken. The PGCs were characterized with alkaline phosphatase staining, PAS staining and immuno- cytochemistry. PGCs were transfected with recombinant GFPpACGFP1-C1 construct and transplanted to the recipient sterile embryos. A total of 3 positive live transgenic chicks were produced where percentage of obtaining live positive birds was 8.3. Gene knock out chicken: The CRISPR/Cas9 tool was used to create targeted mutagenesis of both the exons of the inhibin α gene in chicken. The mutation was successfully appreciated. The expression of edited group of cells of exon1 and exon 2 was 7.12 and 5.47% lower, respectively in comparison with the control group of cells, thus validating the mutagenesis. Gene silencing for reducing serum cholesterol in chicken: Gene silencing by RNAi was adopted to produce knock-down chicken. The knock down birds showed 20.2 and 24.8% lower serum cholesterol and triglycerides content as compared to normal birds. In ACACA (acetyl Co-A carboxylase type A) knock down, the alkaline phosphatase increased by 13.5% in the knock down group, while SREBP-1 (sterol repeat element binding protein 1), gene knock down, 54% reduction in alkaline phosphatase activity was observed.