 The model provides multi-task predictions representing the probabilities of a pixel being a crop field, the probabilities of a pixel being a field boundary, as well as the normal- ized within-field distance to the nearest boundary. Model pretraining was conducted with mass data in France and weights were fine-tuned for use in India using 1.5-m SPOT data, as described in detail in Wang et al. (2022). We used the pretrained model to produce pixel-level pre- dictions from Google Earth VHR imagery as described in Rufin et al. (2023) and converted them to individual field F I G U R E 3 Landscape configuration: (1) Crop fields delineated using Google Earth very high resolution (VHR) imagery. All fields inside the 150-m buffer and intersecting with the buffer boundary were included in the mean field size calculation. Landscape composition: (2a) Sentinel 2-based time series of INDVI values during one complete sugarcane cultivation cycle. (2b) Classification of semi-perennial and annual crops based on an Integrated Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (INDVI) threshold. An identical approach was used on pixels outside crop fields to classify woody vegetation and savanna/open landscape (not shown here). (3) Gradient of land cover diversity illustrated with the 150-m buffers around five survey points. 6 of 17 BHAGWAT ET AL. instances using hierarchical watershed segmentation. We labeled each segment with a unique ID and removed noncrop field segments such as roads, rivers, and infra- structure manually after visual inspection. A total of 4623 crop fields across the study region were delineated using this method. As there were no land cover maps available to estimate landscape composition, we used remote sensing to produce these data. We first used the “Normalized Differ- ence Vegetation Index (NDVI)” for image pixels completely inside crop fields to measure vegetation productivity. The relationship between vegetation productivity and NDVI is well established (Pettorelli et al., 2011; Tucker et al., 1985) and has been previously applied in sugarcane mapping, yield and crop management analyses (Dubey et al., 2018; Som-ard et al., 2021). To distinguish between the total veg- etation productivity of annual and semi-perennial crop types, we generated a Sentinel-2-based NDVI time series at an interval of 10 days over one complete growing cycle of all sugarcane varieties cultivated in our study region. For each image date, we filled data gaps caused by cloud cover or shadow pixels by using image pixels from an additional 30-day period both before and after the date. We applied the Savitzky–Golay filter to remove the remaining noise in the time-series that often results from poor atmospheric conditions or residual cloud pixels (Chen et al., 2004). Finally, we summed the smoothed NDVI values over the complete sugarcane growing cycle to create an Integrated NDVI (INDVI) (see Appendix S1: Figure S4).