8% in several horticultural crops under field conditions. Usage of chemical nematicides can be reduced by 40 to 50% with a net saving of Rs. 8000 to Rs. 10000 per acre. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru-560089 70 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Krishi Rakshak 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Arka Krishi Rakshak is a biopesticide containing 1% wettable powder formulation of Pochonia chlamydosporia (formerly Verticillium chlamydosporium) IIHR Vc-3, a promising nematophagus fungus. 2. Target Crops and delivery system: This bioagent can be inoculated as seed treatment, substrate treatment and soil application in all horticultural crops. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated at multiple locations under All India Coordinated Research Projects. The product has been tested for its bio-efficacy in three different agro- climatic regions at Karnataka, Odisha and Tamil Nadu for two seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details thereof: Yes The technology has been licensed to 48 industrial licensees. 6. Benefits: Arka Krishi Rakshak had exhibited strong antagonism against root-knot nematode (Meloidogyne sp.), and cyst nematode (Heterodera sp.). It also increased the yield by 14.6 to 20.5% in several horticultural crops under field conditions. Usage of chemical nematicides can be reduced by 30 to 50% with a net saving of Rs.8000 to Rs.10000 per acre. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bengaluru-560089 71 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Arka Krishi All-rounder and Arka Plant Growth Booster 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/species): Arka Krishi All-rounder is the talc based and organic formulation of Pseudomonas fluorescens and Trichoderma harzianum. Arka Plant Growth Booster is the liquid based formulation of Pseudomonas fluorescens and Trichoderma harzianum. 2. Target Crops and delivery system: These formulations can be delivered as soil application after enrichment in FYM or through drip application, spraying on the foliage of several horticultural crops viz., tomato, capsicum, okra, brinjal, cabbage, cauliflower, chillies, carrot, onion, tuberose, gerbera, crossandra, gladioli, carnation, banana, papaya, pomegranate, acid lime, citrus, grapes and also on crops grown under protected conditions such as carnations, gerbera, capsicum, tomato, okra, musk melon and water melon. This formulation can also be used for treatment of potting mixture used for producing grafts or hardening tissue culture seedlings of horticultural crops in small polythene bags. 3. Target agro-ecological zones (if any): All 4.