 Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) Fig.1. Conceptual model proposed for assessing training transfer by CAFT participants Self-efficacy Organizational commitment Perceived utility Trainees‟ attributes - Before training Cognitive ability Conscientiousness Goal orientation Trainees attributes - During training Trainees attributes - After training Motivation to transfer Personal capacity to transfer Locus of control Transfer outcomes Organizational climate-Before training Work environment Peer support Supervisor support Strategic link Organizational climate-After training Accountability Positive personal outcomes Supervisor sanctions Task constraints Performance Coaching Resistance to change Job autonomy Training needs analysis Content relevance TTD – Before training Active learning Varied practice Technological tools TTD – During training Training evaluation TTD – After training Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 22 RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Response of CAFT Participants I Profile of the CAFT participants Age It could be inferred from Table 5 and Fig. 2 that majority of the respondents (65%) were middle to old aged and hence it could be interpreted that they could very well understand the concept of CAFT programmes and apply back the knowledge, skills and attitude gained during the programmes. This also implies that the respondents had experience so as to understand the purpose of the instrument and respond in an appropriate manner. Table 5. Distribution of respondents-Age Age Group Number of persons Percentage Young 57 21 % Middle 112 41 % Old 66 24 % No response 57 14 % Total 271 100 % Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 23 Fig.2. Distribution of respondents-Age Gender Information pertaining to Table 6 and Fig. 3 infers that majority of the participants of CAFT programmes as well as the respondents of this study were male. Table 6. Distribution of respondents-Gender Gender Number of persons Percentage Male 231 85 % Female 40 15 % Total 271 100 % Fig. 3. Distribution of respondents-Gender Designation The distribution of respondents as given in Table 7 and Fig. 4 infers that majority of the respondents were belonging to Assistant Professor cadre. This implies that CAFT programmes throw adequate opportunities for the Assistant Professors of the Universities to have advanced training in their relevant disciplines and apply the knowledge and skill gains at their research, educational and extension activities for a strong footing.