 Indian Farming 33 October 2023 Millets: Rediscovering ancient grains for sustainable food systems Rukoo Chawla1*, Hemlata Sharma1, Amit Dadheech1, Ajay Kumar2 and Desh Raj Choudhary2 1MPUAT, Udaipur, Rajasthan 313 001 2Krishi Vigyan Kendra, Jhajjar (CCSHAU, Hisar), Haryana 124 103 Millets, the ancient grains that have long been eclipsed by contemporary cereal crops, are making a comeback as crucial participants in the development of sustainable food systems. This article summarizes millets' nutritional worth, environmental advantages, culinary flexibility and cultural relevance. Millets are high in important nutrients and have a low glycemic index as well as gluten- free features. They are robust crops that grow in a variety of agro-climatic settings, using less water and leaving a smaller water and carbon impact. Their culinary adaptability makes them a perfect element for a range of cuisines, fostering culinary diversity and food security. Furthermore, millets have significant cultural importance, since they relate to ancestral practices and festivities. We can solve global concerns such as food security, climate change, and hunger while maintaining cultural legacy by embracing millets and promoting their production and use. Collaboration among governments, academicians, farmers, and consumers is critical for unlocking the potential of millets and developing sustainable food systems that feed both people and the world. Keywords: Climate resilience, Food security, Millets, Nutrients T HE modern agricultural landscape faces multifaceted challenges, including climate change, water scarcity, soil degradation, and a growing global population. Traditional monoculture systems, dependent on water-intensive crops like rice and wheat, have proven unsustainable in the face of these challenges. As a result, there is a growing need for alternative, resilient, and sustainable crops. Millets have emerged as a beacon of hope in a world suffering with food shortages, environmental degradation, and the need for sustainable farming practices. These ancient grains are making a surprising return after being eclipsed by contemporary cereal harvests. Millets have a variety of characteristics that position them as crucial participants in the development of sustainable food systems. Millets have a rich Indian Farming 73 (10): 33-36; October 2023 history dating back thousands of years. Originating in Africa and Asia, they have been a staple food in many cultures, contributing to the sustenance of diverse populations. Archaeological findings suggest that millets were cultivated as far back as 7000-5000 BCE, making them one of the world’s earliest domesticated crops. In an era characterized by the growing impacts of climate change, these ancient grains have demonstrated remarkable adaptability and endurance in the face of adverse environmental conditions.