 Launched with a financial provision of 25 crores, the scheme has sought to reduce the cost of cultivation and enhance income for the comprehensive welfare and prosperity of farmers and gardeners. Keywords: Agriculture, Economic viability, Environmental degradation, Natural farming Indian Farming 73 (08): 11-15; August 2023 N atural farming is a way of chemical free farming based on livestock and locally available resources. It is based on farm-made resources prepared by the farmer himself. During the mid-1990s, Padma Shri Subhash Palekar took considerable efforts to popularize ancient Indian practices of cow centric farming which involves the application of natural inputs, made using cow dung, cow urine, jaggery, pulse flour combined with mulching practices and symbiotic intercropping. Natural farming, was promoted by the Government of India as Bharatiya Prakritik Krishi Paddhati (BPKP) under the centrally sponsored scheme: Paramparagat Krishi Vikas Yojana (PKVY). BPKP integrates crops, trees and livestock, maximizing biodiversity and enhancing income, soil fertility, and environmental health. BPKP has many indigenous forms in India, and currently, it is adopted by almost 8 states in the country, including Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Kerala, Himachal Pradesh, Jharkhand, Odisha, Madhya Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. Andhra Pradesh and Himachal Pradesh have also formed state level dedicated agencies Rythu Sadhikara Samstha (RySS) and Prakritik Kheti Khushhal Kisan Yojana (PK3Y) respectively, with an objective to enhance farmers’ welfare and conserve the environment. PK3Y, which was started three and a half years ago, has successfully been adopted by over 1,712,000 farmers in Himachal Pradesh. This method has reached to 99% panchayats of the state and 1,17,762 Natural farming in Pangi valley of Chamba district (Himachal Pradesh) Indian Farming 12 August 2023 bigha of land is being cultivated by this method. This year, under the scheme, a target has been set to bring 20000 ha of land under natural farming. Benefits of Natural Farming • Farmers practicing natural farming have observed health benefits through the avoidance of chemical inputs. • Mulching improves the water retention capacity of soil, reduce crop irrigation requirements and control the concentration of groundwater contaminants. • Integration of livestock into agro-ecological practices. Four pillars of Subhash Palekar natural farming Bijamrita: Farmers have been treating their seeds with local cow urine, cow dung and soil from the farm (mentioned in Hindu Vedas as well as in other ancient literature). The higher costs incurred on the purchase of fungicides and other chemicals for seed treatment results in the exploitation of the farmers and also increase the cost of cultivation for the farmers. The treated seeds are equally effective in controlling seed borne diseases. Preparation of Bijamrita: • Take 5 kg cow dung in a cloth and bound it by tape.