 The concerned ADG will monitor follow-up on the implementation of the recommendations. A copy of the final approved report will be sent to ADG (PIM) for records and need-based referencing. The whole period of processing the aRT report at the ICAR (Headquarters) should be completed within 2-3 months. The concerned ADG should ensure that the processing is completed within the stipulated time. 9 Annexure Terms of Reference to Quinquennial Review Team Basically, the idea is to examine whether the research and development programmes are in conformity with the priorities of the ICAR and the nation. A institute/unit (i) Research achievements and impact • To critically examine and identify research achievements of the Institutes, Projects/KVKs, and their Regional Stations and Sub- Stations, AICRPs operated by them vis-a-vis sectoral programmes since the previous QR and critically evaluate them. Commensurate with the objectives, mandates and resources of the organization, the socio-economic impact of research on farmers/beneficiaries, and transferability of results to farmers through extension should be critically reviewed. • The research and its impact should be brought out in quantifiable benchmarks wherever possible. • To know the value for money, QRT should assess and bring out the physical outputs and outcomes vis-a-vis the budget spent during the period under report. If the likely outcomes are going to take considerable time, the projected outcomes should be indicated. • The socio-economic impact of research on farmers/beneficiaries and transferability of results to farmers being an important aspect of research outcome the transferability should be mandatory for major research projects. (ii) Research relevance and budget allocation To examine objectives, scope and relevance of the research programmes and budget of the institute for the next 5 years in relation to overall state/regional/national plans, policies and long- and short-term priorities and also the Perspective Plan and Vision 2020 documents. (iii) Relationship/collaboration with SAUs and other stakeholders To pinpoint whether the research programmes of the past and proposal for future are in harmony with the Vision of the ICAR (Hq) and the programme of the related centres of research and agricultural universities, state government, private sector and IARCs. (iv) Linkages with clients/end-users To examine the kind of linkages established with the clients and end- users of the research results, i.e. farmers/fishermen and the extent of interest displayed in conducting "on-farm research", on farmers' fields and in organizing demonstrations/training courses for the transfer of technology to extension agencies and KVKs of the ICAR. 10 (v) Proposed changes in organization, programmes and budget To examine whether any changes in the organizational set-up are called for manpower and funds allocation. The decentralization in day-to-day working and the transparency should be highlighted.