 In oyster mushroom production, ABI unit of ICAR-IIVR, Varanasi developed several success stories and several trainees and incubates engaged in oyster mushroom production and are getting excellent production in Oyster. Among some successful entrepreneurs/incubates, most of the entrepreneurs are from the peri-urban area due to huge availability of the agricultural wastes from the rural areas and high demand of oyster mushroom in the city, viz. 1. Mr. Surya Kant Maurya, Shevapuri, Varanasi, is running his oyster mushroom production unit and his daily production has already reached up to 20 kg/day and selling their fresh produce @`120/kg and also selling dried oyster mushroom @`700/kg and his annual income is around ` 1.50 lakhs, 2. Mr. Manoj Kumar Shulka, Aurai, Bhadohi also engaged in oyster mushroom cultivation and his daily oyster mushroom production is around 10-12 kg/ day and dealing dried oyster mushroom @`750-800/kg and his annual income is around `2.0 lakhs. Moreover, a women group of Bhavanipur, Varanasi also engaged in oyster mushroom production and are getting very good business in their village by the increasing demand of fresh and dried oyster mushroom. Seasonal and controlled condition button mushroom: In India, seasonal button mushrooms are very much popular among the growers and consumers but have very limited window for production especially during winter months (November-February) in the north- west plains of India and for 7-8 months on the hills, while production of controlled environment-cropping rooms are getting popularity day-by-day for round year production. White button mushroom requires 20-22oC for vegetative growth (spawn run) and 12-18oC for reproductive growth with relative humidity of 80-90% and proper ventilation. In modern cultivation technology, controlled conditioned room, button mushroom cultivation has two major components, i.e. composting (preparation of substrate/ compost), and crop management (raising of mushroom crop). Composting is the method in which microbes act upon the substrate (organic and inorganic), resulting in changed physical and chemical property of the substrate on which mycelium of mushroom can grow and compost is prepared by aerobic decomposition process and then after needed pasteurization of compost in pasteurization tunnel or bunker. Compost is generally pasteurized to destroy undesirable micro- and macro-organisms. In pasteurization tunnels the temperature in compost is Indian Horticulture 96 maintained at 45ºC for 4-5 days. The heat treatment reduces the amount of mesophilic microorganism in the substrate. Thermophilic microfauna, although able to survive the heating process, will be deactivated when the temperature drops to cultivation values (22-24ºC) by cooling. The compost is pasteurized not sterilized since the presence of certain microorganism in compost is essential. The mixing of compost and spawn can be done @ 0.