 The quarterly progress reports received from various institutes are reviewed and suggestions are given to them for effective implementation. ICAR is participating regularly in TOLIC’s meetings. The employees are nominated regularly for Hindi language, Hindi typing and shorthand Incubation fund To enhance the agri-business environment at Council 50 Agri-Business Incubation (ABIs) Centers were supported at various institutes for facilitating the entrepreneurs/innovators/scholars/start-ups. During the reporting period, these centers had facilitated 235 such stakeholders for their business incubation activities. These efforts, motivated 214 entrepreneurs/startups to ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 163 training. At headquarters, training in Hindi typing on Unicode is also being imparted by the Hindi Anubhag. During the period from 1.10.2019 to 30.09.2020, 3 Hindi Workshops were conducted. First such workshop was conducted on 27.11.2019 for officers of Technical Category on Work Efficiency and Stress Management and 18 officers participated in this workshop. Second workshop was conducted on 26.06.2020 through video conferencing mode for Section Officers on Stress free and Efficient Management of Official Work, in which 22 officers participated. Third workshop was conducted for Under Secretaries on 28.09.2020 on Crash Translation for Executive Official Work in Simple Hindi as per Official Language Policy and Rules and 15 officers participated in this workshop. As usual, during this year also, Rajbhasha week/ fortnight/month was organized at Council’s Headquarters and its institutes. At Council headquarters, various Rajbhasha Competitions were conducted. Rajbhasha Ullas Pakhwara was organized at Council’s Headquarters from 14 September 2020 to 29 September 2020. On the occasion, the inspiring messages of Union and State Ministers for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare were issued. The Director General also issued an online video appeal thereby urging all officers/employees to do their maximum official work in Hindi. Under the Cash Award Scheme of Official Language being run at Council Headquarters, 10 personnel were given cash awards for doing their maximum work in Hindi during the year 2019- 20. Two more award schemes are being implemented by the council at its own level which are as follows. Rajarshi Tandon Rajbhasha Puraskar Yojana: Under this scheme, Institutes falling under ‘A’, ‘B’ and ‘C’ linguistic region awarded region-wise in different categories for excellent implementation of official language. During the year 2018-19 the following Institutes were awarded for doing their maximum work in Hindi: Institutes. Under this scheme, awards are given away in two categories, one is for A, and B regions institutes combined and other is for institutes located in ‘C’ region for the best magazine. During the year 2018–19, the magazine of the following Institutes were awarded. Details are as under: Largest Institutes Award I. 1.