 Fruit washing or hydro-cooling is not recommended because it damage fruit surface which leads to oozing of juice from tiny fruitlets which cause rotting and fungal growth. Air-cooling by desert cooler or any other means is recommended for removal of field heat. On-farm packaging: To minimize fruits injury, it is advised to do packaging in orchard itself immediately after harvesting and sorting. Packaging boxes with required aeration were standardized for mulberry fruits at ICAR-CIAH, Bikaner. Plastic punnet and corrugated fibre board (CFB) boxes of 200-, 250- 300 and 500-gram capacity with 0.3% aeration is recommended for safe packaging, transport and marketing of mulberry fruits. During long distance transport, stacking of boxes must be carried out in such a way that fruits of bottom stack should not damage. For long distance transport, CFB boxes of 500 gram capacity with 0.3% ventilation (8 holes of 12 mm size) are preferred over plastic boxes to avoid fruits injury in bottom stacked boxes. Mulberry fruits can be marketed similarly to strawberry in retail shopping outlets at premium prices through packaging in plastic or CFB boxes and proper labelling. Processing and value addition Mulberry fruits hold immense potential for processing and value addition due to their high perishability and excellent nutraceutical value. A process has been standardized for mulberry juice extraction, bottling, RTS and squash preparation. Juice extraction and value addition: Fully ripened fruits (colour changed to deep red or black) should be utilized for juice extraction. At domestic level juice is extracted through mecerating of fully ripened fruits followed by manually squeezing fruit slurry in muslin Maturity stage I Maturity stage II On-farm packaging in plastic punnet boxes May–June 2024 27 cloth while at industrial level, it can be extracted through hydraulic press. The extracted juice recommended to be filtered through double layer muslin cloth to seperate pomace. Through proper sterlization and bottling, juice can be stored for one month at room temperature and 8 months at 5°C without compromising sensory quality. Stored juice can be consumed directly, blended with other fruit juices, or used in the preparation of ready-to-serve beverages and squash. Dehydration: Dehydrated black mulberry fruits (Thar Lohit) can be added as a nutritionally rich and high value commodity in dry fruit market. A process has been standardized for dehydration and packaging of black mulberry fruits. Fully ripened fruits are recmmended to be dried in the shade with proper ventilation for getting good quality and desirable colour dried product. Inferior colour and acridity was observed in dried product when drying was carried out at high temperature (more than 55°C). Packaging of dehydrated mulberry fruit is recommended in glass jars and food grade standy pouches.