 5 ICAR REPORTER April - June 2023 Dr Pathak applauded the excellent and exceptional work carried out by ICAR-CIFRI for the livelihood enhancement of women fishers of Sundarban and congratulate ICAR-CIFRI staff members for taking this human service and taking all the technology forward to Sundarban. Dr BK Das, said that in the last 10 years, the Institute has been extending its support to the vulnerable communities of Sundarban by providing technological inputs for rejuvenating their livelihood through fish farming under the SCSP/STC programme. Dr Pathak distributed fisheries inputs like fingerlings, ICAR-CIFRI Cagegrow feeds, etc. to 500 SC and ST women fish farmers who have backyard ponds with an average area ranging from 0.02 ha to 0.04 ha. These women beneficiaries have been selected from a vast area covering 38 hamlets under 17 GPs of two Community Development Blocks namely Gosaba and Basanti of Sundarbans. More than 5000 fishers including 4500 women fishers participated in the meet. Officers and staff members of State Departments, ICAR institutes and Krishna Vigyan Kendra were also present on the occasion. In-Charge, Institute Technology Management Unit ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute Barrackpore, Kolkata 700 120 Regional Millet Mela-2023 and Tribal Sub Plan Program 29 May 2023, Bengaluru. ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources (NBAIR), Bengaluru in collaboration with ICAR-KVK, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (TNAU), Dharmapuri conducted Regional Millet Mela-2023 on 28-29 May 2023, at ICAR-KVK, Dharmapuri, Tamil Nadu on the eve of International Year of Millets. Dr SN Sushil, Director, ICAR-NBAIR emphasised on the importance of biological control of crop pests and their role in pesticide-free crop production. Shri MRK Paneerselvam, Tamil Nadu Agricultural Minister; Dr V Geethalakshmi, Vice Chancellor of TNAU; Dr Murugan, Director of Extension Education, TNAU; Dr Sheik N Meera, Director of ICAR-ATAARI, Hyderabad; Smt Santhi, District Collector; and district MPs, MLAs participated the program. More than 4000 farmers participated in the Regional Millets Mela-2023. Dr SN Sushil distributed agricultural inputs like millet seeds, vegetable seeds, biopesticides, farm implements like cono-weeders, and coconut climbers to the tribal farmers for the improvement in their livelihood. In-charge, PME Cell ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources Bellary Road, Bengaluru 560 024, Karnataka Website: www.nbair.res.in E-mail ID: pme.nbair@icar.gov.in Workshop on Management of Open Water Fisheries of Sikkim 31 May 2023, Barrackpore, Kolkata. ICAR-Central Inland Fisheries Research Institute, Barrackpore in collaboration with the Directorate of Fisheries (DoF), Govt. of Sikkim organized an Interactive workshop on ‘Management of Open water fisheries of Sikkim’ at Gangtok on 29 May 2023.