 Water harvesting and storage structures must be improved and increased depending on the requirement so as to avoid runoff wastages. Storage capacity of the tanks should be enhanced with strengthening of the bunds and out let channels so that tail end areas also will avail tank irrigation and more area should be brought into cultivation. Maintenance of water bodies which leads the recharge of the groundwater so that over exploitation risks can be minimized. Cultivation of low fertile lands deprived of irrigation are to be used intensively for high value crops i.e., establishment of drought tolerant millet, fruit crops and agro-horti pasture. Integrated nutrient management including organic manures, green manures, compost, vermi compost and proper application of major nutrients along with bio fertilizer will avoid the yield reduction due to deficiencies and increase the yield. Proposed strategies will lead to achieve 9 per cent growth in Agriculture production and double the income of about 82 lakhs farmers of Tamil Nadu by increasing the productivity by 50 per cent and above, increasing the cropping intensity, increasing the irrigation intensity and bringing fallow lands under cultivation. Strengthening of Agriculture infrastructure will ensure access to quality inputs, extensive adoption of innovative technologies like SRI, Micro irrigation, Precision farming resulting in increased water use efficiency. Besides, emphasis on organic farming, integrated farming systems, prevention of wild animal’s menace need adequate consideration and adoption in the appropriate agro-ecological zone. F. Resources and Challenges Since the scope of extensive cultivation is rather limited, efforts have to be taken up for intensive cultivation. However, the cropping intensity is hovering around 120 per cent only in spite of developmental efforts taken up since independence. The scope for bringing additional land under cultivation revolve around current fallows, cultivable wastes and other fallow lands which accounted for nearly 20.00 per cent of the geographical area of Tamil Nadu State. Hence challenges are identifying the green signals of the aforesaid areas under cultivation. In fallow lands, efforts have to be taken for cultivation of fodder crops which would mitigate the deficiencies in the availability of fodder area. Further net area irrigated to net area sown accounted for nearly 52.00 per cent. Hence efforts have to be taken up by bringing green revolution in the rainfed areas giving emphasis to short duration drought resistant millets and pulses. Since water is an essential input for agriculture, linking of rivers, water harvesting and restoration of traditional water bodies will improve the overall water availability in the State. Water use efficiency can also be achieved by modernization of irrigation system, improved service delivery, participation of farmers and popularization of micro irrigation.