 This disorder renders the fruit unfit for consumption and export to some extent. Earlier, this disorder was confined only in the cultivars grown at coastal region but recently the cultivar Mallika grown on dry track of subtropical region was also found affected with this disorder. Similar disorder was also noticed in Dashehari from Lucknow. In this cultivar the disorder invariably starts from the surface of the stone and maximum damage was noticed in the lower part as compared to middle and upper part. Convicting heat arising from soil and intense solar radiation are reported to be the main cause for this disorder. Different types of mulching were found effective for the control. For further interaction, please write to: S Rajan (Director), ICAR-Central Institute for Subtropical Horticulture, Rehmankhera, Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh 226 101. *Corresponding author e-mail: srajanlko@gmail.com Spongy tissue in mango fruits (a) Alphanso, (b) cv. Mallika a b Indian Horticulture 50 P K Shukla* Mango fruit diseases management to reduce postharvest rotting Out of the total harvest, almost 15-20% of the fruits spoil. Fungi are the most common cause of mango fruit decay after harvest. It can be decreased by employing effective pre- and post-harvest practices in the production, harvesting, and post- harvest handling processes. The purpose of this article is to make end users aware of their obligations to reduce losses and the implications of such losses. Research M angoes are grown in a variety of climate across India. The quality of produce is determined by climatic and weather conditions. Mango varieties are grown in various climate zones and have varying shelf lives. The sensitivity of mango cultivars’ fruits to different pathogenic fungus varies as well. During the early stages of growth, mango fruits are relatively resistant to infection; but, as the fruits mature, their vulnerability to infection rises, and they become very sensitive during the period between harvest and consumption due to biochemical changes. Fruit rotting is caused by both saprophytic and pathogenic fungi. Depending on the factors affecting and practices followed, postharvest losses might range from 0 to 80%. The well-known major diseases are presented in order to provide a better understanding of how to protect mango fruits from losses. Anthracnose It is the most serious postharvest disease in the world, especially in areas where there are frequent rains during the development and maturity of the fruit. Anthracnose is caused by the fungus Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, which infects every tender part of the mango tree, including developing and mature fruits. Because the fungus is active all year in orchards, fruits on trees can be infected at any time if the weather conditions are favourable, such as optimum temperature (20-30°C), high relative humidity, prolonged rainfall, or heavy dew. The number and amount of rains are directly proportional to disease incidence and severity.