 • To maintain linkage with state and central Government Ministries/Departments for infrastructural development, marketing etc. for organic kiwifruit. • To strengthen alliance with ICAR, Manipur Organic Mission Agency and NABARD, etc. Technological interventions The major interventions were: • Supply of disease-free quality planting material (grafted plants). • Supply of critical agro inputs like biofertilizers, biopesticides, trellising material, etc. • Creation of storage infrastructure. • Bridging the knowledge gap on production technology through capacity building. Under the programme, the plantations were managed organically. The organic production package, developed by ICAR- Manipur Centre, cover entire cultural aspects of crop production with specific focus on planting method, trellising and nutrient management. Grafted plants of kiwifruit var. Hayward as female and Allison or Toumri as male were planted on hill slope at a ratio of 1 male: 8 female plants, where every 3rd plant in alternate row was male plant. However, we also advised farmers to place the male plants in the first pit in a row face the wind direction during flowering time. The spacing of 6 m × 4 m and 6 m × 6 m under T–bar trellis and pergola system, respectively was maintained. Special attention was given on trellising of vines. Regarding nutrient application, vermicompost (10 kg) + Azospirillum (50 g) + Pseudomonas (50 g) per plant was recommended. We trained the farmers on pruning to encourage the current season growth, specifically during winter after harvesting of fruits. We also advised to irrigate the young vines at 10–15 days intervals during winter and at weekly interval during summer; however, in many areas the crop was grown as rainfed. We demonstrated mulching technique with locally available mulch material. We also trained the farmers on intercropping during first 3 years. Weed control is important when vines are young and farmers were instructed to keep the plantation neat and clean. ICAR team periodically monitor the project sites and provided need based technical assistance to the beneficiaries as and when required. We also established one community cold room (5 MT capacity) in Purul Akutpa village for short term storage of harvested kiwifruits. Achievements and impact Geographic growth of kiwifruit is one of the most notable successes under TSP. Nearly 15% of Manipur’s total kiwifruit area is being shared by Farmer interest group members. With an almost 90% adoption rate, the intervention had a tremendous impact on kiwifruit grower's. The cultivation process requires labour for planting, pruning, harvesting and packaging, which provided employment to local communities. Overall, when compared to other kiwifruit growers, the beneficiarie's productivity ranged from 25–35% greater on average. Being an organically produced high value crops, Kiwifruit offered a more diverse income stream for farmers and fetched good prices in the market.