FSc were introduced. l Educational tours were made compulsory for undergraduate programmes. l Short-term certificate courses with duration ranging from 3 weeks to 1 year for those who cannot afford higher education, but still have an aptitude for learning practical skills, entrepreneurship and self employment were launched. Balasaheb Sawant Konkan Krishi Vidyapeeth, Dapoli l An MoU was signed with Maharana Pratap University of Agriculture and Technology, Udaipur, (Rajasthan), University of Agricultural Sciences, Dharwad and Aspee Agricultural Research and Development Foundation, Mumbai for fostering academic programmes and to encourage inter university working and garner private support for education. l RAWE, Rural Home Work Experience Programme (RHWEP), FWEP were remodelled to harmonize with new UG curricula in Agriculture, Horticulture and Forestry. l In order to build self-reliance and self-confidence counselling and guidance were provided to students for competitive examinations for JRF/SRF/IFRIE. l With financial help from the ICAR, some steps/changes were initiated in the direction of upgradation in educational reforms and achievements. l Central Instrumentation Cell established at the College of Agriculture, Dapoli and College of Fisheries, Ratnagiri became functional during the year. Chandra Shekhar Azad University of Agriculture and Technology, Kanpur l Three new Departments of Home Science, Extension Education, Human and Child Development and Clothing and Textiles were established in College of Home Science. l Financial support was provided to support the State Agricultural Universities for development and strengthening of UG and PG programmes to expand, develop and improve the quality, relevance and utility of agricultural education and training. l Support was provided for instructional farm development, computerization, internet facilities, educational technology cells, HRD of faculty and non-faculty members and for construction of Girls hostels. l Rural Agricultural Work Experience is now being effectively implemented in most of the SAUs as an integral part of degree programmes. Adequate support was provided for this programme. AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT 153 l Remodelled RAWE programme in tune with the new UG course curricula was launched. l New laboratories viz. Multimedia laboratory, Central Instrumentation Laboratory and Plant Clinic Laboratory were set up. Ch. Charan Singh Haryana Agricultural University, Hisar l Course curricula for all the undergraduate and Post-graduate programmes were updated. l Centre of Food Science and Technology was established to encourage value addition to staple food item. l Diploma course in Food Science and Technology was started. l Two months training schedule was implemented for agricultural graduates under the Ministry of Agriculture sponsored programme in Agri-clinics and Agri-business centres.