 Strengthening these functions requires a better understanding of where and how to best improve productivity, mindful of farmers’ incentives and the complex in­ teractions across bio-physical, socio-economic, and socio-technical fac­ tors, their gradients, and their interlinkages with other sustainability outcomes (Molden et al., 2010; Rockstrom et al., 2017; Suhardiman et al., 2018; Zewdie et al., 2020). Several factors interact to shape appropriate irrigation use: soil and drainage types of the plots, weather conditions, crop varieties, crop types and the timeliness and amount of irrigation. At the same time, social and technical requirements for the use of different irrigation systems add another layer of complexity and can constrain irrigation use (Westling et al., 2019). Building farmers’ knowledge and experience are crucial for navigating and managing these factors at the plot level. Future research needs to develop solutions that appreciate these dynamics across large landscapes and can pinpoint potential avenues for increasing land productivity and system profit­ ability that are anchored in context- and place-specific development trajectories and informed by patterns of spatial inter-village and intra- village heterogeneity (Lambe et al., 2020). Expanding irrigation fea­ tures high on the political agenda, and a new wave of irrigation research is needed for effectively utilizing irrigation infrastructure and fostering targeted and systemic improvement in a rapidly changing food system. 4. Conclusions We investigated how irrigation-led intensification of rice-wheat systems may impact personal daily incomes derived from crop produc­ tion of smallholder farmers in the Eastern Gangetic Plains. We find that crop production alone may not lift most household above the poverty line as most farms are too small to generate substantial incomes from crop production – especially from cereals. Nevertheless, irrigation re­ duces the depth of poverty and provides substantial benefits for agri­ cultural productivity that play a key role in preventing famine and strengthening food security and climate resilience. Therefore, we argue that irrigation development should be considered as part of cross- sectoral efforts and coordinated upgrading of the rural economy that creates both agricultural and non-agricultural jobs and skills. As such, policymakers should develop targeted investments that can support irrigation-led agricultural intensification where it is likely to produce the largest payoffs for food security and climate resilience. Our study is limited due to incomplete information on production costs and a more detailed analyses focusing on causal inference is needed in the future to provide more granular insights into the re­ lationships between irrigation and poverty in the EGP. Such an analysis, especially if of spatial nature, can further inform regional investment decisions and targeting.