 Out of 10 Scientists, 8 posts should be in the core disciplines namely, (i) Agricultural Extension (ii) Agronomy/Soil Science (iii) Plant Protection (Entomology/Plant Pathology) (iv) Plant Breeding/Seed Technology* (v) Animal Science/Fisheries (vi) Horticulture (vii) Home Science (viii) Agriculture Engineering (Post Harvest Technology/Value addition) The other two posts could be out of other disciplines such as: (i) Animal Science/Fisheries/Agroforestry/Plant Pathology (ii) Agri-Business Management/Agricultural Economics *To strengthen the participatory seed production and maintenance breeding in the farmers’ fields as well as at instructional farm of KVK, the discipline of Plant Breeding/Seed Technology is required at KVK. ●Host Organizations shall strictly adopt the pay structure sanctioned by ICAR for KVK staff without any change. The optional disciplines are to be selected in consultation with the Zonal Project Director. 6.3 Infrastructure development The ICAR will provide financial support for creation of basic infrastructure facilities which are detailed below: 88 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK 6.3.1 Immovable Infrastructure ●Provision for basic infrastructure/assets like: administrative building (750 m2), trainees’ hostel (305 m2), staff quarters (550 m2 8 nos.) and demonstration units (320 m2 6 nos.) repairs and renovation, fencing-cum-boundary wall, land leveling, road formation, bore-well, rain-water harvesting, irrigation and drainage system, threshing and drying yard, vehicle/implements shed, storage godown and external electrification, to be taken up in phased manner as per requirement/ priority need. ●Provision for establishment of soil, water and plant testing laboratory in all KVKs, tissue culture laboratory in those KVKs where there is specific demand for tissue cultured planting material (ex. banana) and support for setting up of mini seed processing units/post-harvest and value- addition laboratory in selected KVKs. (b) Movable Infrastructure ●Provision for minimum furniture and fixtures in the Administrative Building, Trainees’ Hostel and Demonstration Units, as per specific norms of the Council. ●Provision for state-of-the-art of communication facilities, library, laboratory equipments, office equipments, farm implements, machineries and tools, and small weather station for carrying out efficiently day-to-day activities. ●KVK should have a provision for minimum required vehicles (one four wheeler and 2 two wheelers) for effective functioning, including field visits to the farmers’ fields. (c) Utilization of Infrastructure ●Infrastructural facilities created at KVK should be put to use for the purpose it has been created. Logbook and asset register be maintained for each of the movable and immovable property at the KVK. ●The revenue generated by the KVK should be allowed to be utilized for the development of KVK facilities, and it be properly accounted for.