 Isolation and identification of Listeria from clinical (human and animal) and food samples (meat and meat products) revealed high prevalence of Listeria species. Samples from poultry production chain (comprising of poultry droppings, feed, water, meat and environment) were screened from poultry farm settings of Maharashtra, Kerala and Telangana for Escherichia coli and non-typhoidal Salmonella (NTS) spp. ICAR NRC on Meat and IVRI, Izatnagar have been working on occupational hazards among abattoir associated personnel namely, brucellosis, leptospirosis, Q fever, chlamydiosis and hepatitis E. Rapid serological assays have been developed for the detection of Q fever and listeriosis. The PCR based protocols for detection of Listeria monocytogenes and Coxiella burnetii from foods and clinical samples have been developed. An in-house designed i-ELISA was developed for serodiagnosis of chlamydiosis in humans. The ddPCR assay was developed for the detection of C. psittaci which was found to be suitable for screening the samples with a lower bacterial load. 8. Climate resilient animal production With a recorded increase in temperature by 0.2°C per decade, the IPCC (2021) predicted that the global average surface temperature would increase in between 1.8°C to 4.4°C by 2100. The air temperatures above 20-25°C in temperate climate and 25-37°C in tropical climate like in India, enhance heat gain beyond that lost from the body and induces heat stress (Das et al. 2016). The temperature-humidity index (THI) is commonly used to quantify the degree of heat stress on animals (Habeeb 2018). THI levels <70 is comfortable; 71-74, mild stress; 75-78, stressful; 79-85, severe stress and >86 is considered lethal to animals. 8.1. Cattle and buffalo The work carried at NDRI Karnal under NICRA project exhibited that seasonal variation in skin temperature, blood flow and a physiological function in Zebu and Karan-Fries (KF) cattle indicated the better adaptability of zebu during heat stress. The hair coat of animals plays a critical role in heat and moisture transfer from the skin surface to the surrounding Indian Agriculture after Independence 162 environment to control body temperature. Thermal imaging of the cows revealed lateral surface and the dorsal surface of the body being more sensitive to heat stress than other part of body (rear surface, forehead and udder region). Tharparkar (TH) and Gir cows did not exhibit decline in milk yield up to 76 THI, beyond which the milk yield declined by 0.41 g/ day with every unit increase in THI score. Cortisol level increased during hot humid month (July-August) and was low in winter months. Overall, the seasonal variability affected the % fat in the order TH>GIR~SW(Sahiwal)>KF in the winter, and thermoneutral zone. Milk plasmin was increased significantly in the summer season in all the breeds. Green-house gas emissions were in the range of 563-757 kg CO2 eq. t-1 of milk production. Water foot print ranged from 1212-1583 m3/ton.