 Plant juice is administered in combination with aromatic for catarrhal jaundice. The expressed leaf juice along with honey is a popular remedy for catarrah in infants. Juice of the leaves boiled with sesamum or coconut oil is used for anointing the head to render the hair black and luxuriant. Root is emetic and purgative. It is applied externally as antiseptic to ulcer. The shoot extract shows antibiotic activity against Staphylo coccus aureus and Escherchia coli. An erect or prostrate much branched, stringosely hirsute, annual, often rooting at the nostle.This plant is a common weed in moist situations through out India, ascending up to 6000 feet on the hills. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 341 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 124 Eletteria cardamom Cardamom H- Choti elachi B- Choti elachi M-Veldode G-Elchi Tel- Yelakkayalu T-Yelakkai Kan-Yelakki Mal-Yelam Cardamom is used as a spice and masticatory and in medicine. It is used for flavouring, curries, cake, bread and for other culinary purposes. It is also used for flavouring liquors. In medicine it is used as an adjuvant to carminative drugs. Powdered cardamom mixed with ginger, cloves and caraway is a good stomachic useful in atonic dyspepsia. Cardamom oil is useful in flavouring beverages. The principle constituents of oil are cineol, terpineol, terpenenes, etc. A tall herbaceous perennial with branching sub-teranian root stock, from which arise number of upright leafy shoot 5–18 feet high. It is a native of moist evergreen forests of south India, growing wild in the western ghats, between 2500 feet and 5000 feet. 125 Eleusine coracana Finger millet H- Mandua B-Marua M-Nagli G-Bavto Tel-Ragulu T-Ragi Kan-Ragi Mal-Muttari Protein content varies from 6-11% and a strain of white finger millet contains as much as 14% protein. At 5% level of protein intake, the biological values and digestibility coefficient of finger millet protein are 89% and 80% respectively. It is usually converted in to flour and a variety of preparation—cakes, roti, pudding, porridge, etc. are made. An erect annual grass 2–4 feet high with tillering tufted stems. It is considered to be of Indian or African origin and is a cultigen a wild species. In Tamil Nadu finger millet cultivation is concentrated in Coimbatore. The main finger millet growing areas are in Karnataka, Deccan and Gujarat, Andhra Pradesh, Anantapur and Vizag. In Bihar, finger millet is grown mainly in the upland tracts of Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Gaya. In Jharkhand, Hazaribag and Ranchi districts. The principal area in Orissa lies in Koraput district. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 342 Sl. No.