 Consistent with this, ashwagandha use has been described primarily for its root in national pharmacopeias, such as the United States Pharmacopeia (USP), the British Pharmacopoeia, the Parmeshwar L Saran* and Manish Das Prospects Ashwagandha September–October 2023 23 Indian Pharmacopoeia, the Ayurvedic Pharmacopoeia, and reference works like the World Health Organization monograph. Most companies manufacture W. somnifera root extract from dried roots, which is in agreement with the use of Ashwagandha in traditional Ayurvedic medicine. Methanol, hexane and diethyl ether extracts, alkaloid and steroidal active constituents shared in the roots are reported to contain starch, reducing sugars, glycosides, dulcitol, etc., as a neutral compound. The amino acids reported from the roots include aspartic acid and glycine. Active constituents are methanol, hexane and diethyl ether extracts, Withaferin-A from leaves taste bitter and used in painful swellings and fever. Mainly, extract yield is ten times lower than the initial weight of raw material. The extract contains steroidal lactones called withanolides in concentrations between 1.5-5.0% (w/w). This ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ naturally grows in Nagaur district and the boundary area of Sikar, Jaipur, Ajmer, Pali, Jodhpur, Bikaner and Churu districts. It is a local variety/ land race that dwells in a particular phyto-geographic region differing from others in climate and edaphic characters. Annual rainfall of the region is 450-500 mm and 80% received in the monsoon season. Region lies in the desert having extremes heat in summer and cold in winter. Soils of the region are sandy loam to sandy type. Plants are naturally grown in this region as a weed with gram, wheat, onion, mustard etc., in rabi season (October to May) under irrigated condition (Chahi). Superior quality of produce is obtained in this particular region. One of the most popular and rich in quality parameters are also known as ‘Nagori Ashgand’. It has brittle and starchy roots. The ‘Nagori Ashwagandha’ is the supreme among all Ashwagandha varieties in arid region. Botanical description of DTWr-1 It is a dense, hairy, erect, grayish-tomentose herb, grows up to a height of 1.5 meter. Its all parts are covered with whitish, stellate trichomes. Branching is extensive; leaves are simple, alternate or sub-opposite, ovate, entire, basis cunate, 11-13 cm long. The roots are very stout, long tuberous, fleshy, brittle and whitish-brown. The flowers are greenish-yellow and found in few flowered clusters in axils; pedicels up to 3.8 to 4.2 mm long. The fruit is red-yellow berry, smooth, 5-6 mm in diameter, enclosed in the inflated calyx which reaches more than 16-17 mm diameter and is globose, slightly 5-angled, pointed with the connivent calyx-teeth and scurfy pubescent outside. Seeds are 2.0-2.2 mm in diameter, yellow and somewhat scurfy. Overall, DTWr-1 seems diverse as compared to Nagori type and check variety.