 Provided regular training to the farmers on various advanced aspects of dairy cattle management and also conducted training programmes for scientists, academicians, technical officers and students under HRD activities. 8. Developed and obtained two design patents namely Pronil-CVPTM and Prolacure-UtPTMfor resolving the reproductive problems in bovines. 9. Developed the following six technologies and applied for grant of Indian patent i. Colour-based test for differentiation of Cow vs. Goat milk/meat samples, ii. LAMP assay for rapid detection of cow components adulterated in buffalo milk/meat iii. Easy and economical Protocol for BLAD testing in bulls and all the technologies have been filed for patenting. iv. Single tube tetra ARMS PCR-based assay for genotyping FMD virus receptor in cattle v. Tetra primer displacement PCR assay for detection of Complex Vertebral Malformation (CVM) in cattle vi. COWCAM kit for detecting cow milk adulteration in camel milk or vice versa at the level of 1%. 166 ICAR Institutes Profile 166 ICAR-Central Marine Fisheries Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-CMFRI, Post Box No. 1603, Ernakulam North P.O., Kochi-682018, Kerala ii. Name of the Director: Dr. A. Gopalakrishnan iii. Email address: director.cmfri@icar.gov.in / Phone No.: 0484-2394867, 2391407 2. Mandate and activities ICAR-CMFRI undertakes research programmes on marine fisheries resource assessment and management, coastal mariculture and open-sea farming. The Institute has 11 research centres along the coasts to carry out region-specific research and technology dissemination. • Monitor and assess the marine fisheries resources of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) including the impact of climate and anthropogenic activity and develop sustainable fishery management plans. • Basic and strategic research in mariculture to enhance production. • Act as a repository of geo-spatial information on marine fishery resources and habitats. • Consultancy services; and human resource development through training, education and extension. 3. Salient achievements • Developed a national database on marine fish landings of about 1200 species covering 1511 fish landing centres on GIS platform from the EEZ of India for the last 5 decades. • Stock assessment of 52 marine fish stocks and genetic stock identification of 8 species. • Developed Fishery Management Plans (FMPs) for sustainable exploitation of the marine fisheries of maritime states. Further, developed restoration protocols through artificial reef development. Fisheries Science 167 Fisheries Science 167 • Developed and popularized open-sea cage culture technology leading to the operation of > 3500 cages along the coasts. Further, developed Integrated Multi-Trophic Aquaculture (IMTA) technology with the integration of cage culture and seaweed farming. • Identified a potential area of 23970 ha for seaweed farming and 46823 ha for cage culture along Indian coasts.