 Automotive, Power, Health, Safety & Surveillance, Smart Homes, Smart Cities, Smart village, Intelligent Transport System ,Smart Agriculture, in the horizontal layer - M2M Gateway & Architecture, Communication Technologies, EMF radiation from loT/M2M devices, loT Security etc. All the technical reports are available on TEC website (https://tec.gov.in/M2M-loT-technical- reports). Important actionable points emerged from these reports are being used in the development of standards / policies; enabling the proliferation of loT ecosystem in the country. TEC is the nodal authority for Mandatory Testing and Certification of Telecommunication Equipment and ensures testing as per the Essential Requirements formulated for various telecom products viz, Smart Electricity meter, lol Gateway, Tracking device etc. loT/ M2M , one of the most emerging technologies is transforming the way producers cultivate, harvest and distribute agricultural commodities. The use of technology in Indian agriculture, has accelerated agricultural and rural development by adopting innovative ways to improve the existing information and communication processes. By harnessing the power of technology, farmers can mitigate risks, improve productivity, and ensure food security for future generations while minimizing the environmental footprint of agricultural practices. y nr ezyran/Tel.:+91-11-23320252 ISO 9001:2015 $-We/E-mail: srddg.tec@gov.in Aaatse/Website : www.tec.gov.in Traditional agriculture has limited capability to meet the growing demands of a rapidly changing world, necessitating the adoption of more modern and sustainable farming approaches. Smart agriculture represents a transformative shift towards a more sustainable and efficient food production system. As digitization of agriculture continues to evolve with technologies like loT, Artificial Intelligence, robotics, UAVs etc., it holds the potential to revolutionize the way we produce, distribute, and consume food, paving the way for a more resilient and sustainable future. | am delighted to share that, Telecommunication Engineering Centre (TEC) and Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) have worked jointly to prepare a Technical Report on ‘Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming’. This Technical Report explores concepts of the emerging technologies being used in agriculture. It explains in brief various types of communication technologies, used in M2M/ loT domain depending upon the coverage, power, specific use-case requirement etc. It also covers concepts of Artificial Intelligence (Al)/ Machine Learning (ML), Big data analytics, Blockchain, Digital twin and Metaverse; components of digital agriculture such as precision agriculture, agriculture robotics, Remote Sensing and Satellite, drones/ UAV; and their applications in agriculture. The report also has a compilation of various use cases on Digital Agriculture.