 Teaser bull can be employed in the herd for detecting the animals in heat. Feeding of colostrum to the newborn within twelve hours of calving (1/10th of body weight). Provide tender leafy fodder to the calves for early development of Rumen. Calf starter may be given from 3rd day onwards to 2-3 weeks before weaning. Deworming on 14th day, 35th day 56th day and monthly repeated up to six months of age. Later, deworming should be done every six months’ interval (Piperzine adipate: 10mg/kg body weight, Albendazole: 7.5 to 10 mg/kg body weight). After attaining the age of six months, FMD vaccine is to be given during September. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 376 Sheep and Goat Rotational deworming at quarterly interval is advised. PPR vaccine during the month of September yearly once both in sheep and goats. Extensive and semi-intensive system of rearing is practiced in Telangana state. Green fodder may be given as per the availability. Flushing must be followed to improve lambing rate in the flock (Flushing is feeding 150 to 200 gm of concentrate mixture to breedable population two weeks before breeding season. For every 20 breedable ewes on breeding Ram should be provided in the flock. Naval dressing with povidine/ Betadine immediately after birth. Lambs must be accessible to the mother for feeding colostrum within twelve hours of lambing. Antibiotic treatment during change of weather. Poultry In commercial poultry farms, farmers should follow the breed specific regimens advised by the breeder from time to time for both broilers and layers. For backyard poultry Varieties like Rajasree, Vanaraja, Giriraja Gramapriya, Sreenidhi etc. are available in Telangana. Those opting for one day old chicks should have facility for rearing ie., poultry shed, waterers, feeders, and well-balanced ration for better growth. Standard vaccination schedule as advised by the agency may be followed. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 377 Fisheries Provide optimal quantity of feed based on biomass calculation to avoid excessive feeding, since cost of feed is the major expenditure in fish culture. Feed should be stored in cool and dry places. Don’t store the feed for long time and also check for any mould formation before using it. Fish feeding rate in water bodies should be at 2-3 % of body weight. Use of aerators or pumping water from bottom to top using motor pumps or disturbing the pond water through boat motor is essential. Application of Hydrogen peroxide at 600 grams per acre to improve DO level Apply Zeolite at 50 kg/ha to prevent the occurrences of Toxic gases (Ammonia and Carbon monoxide) mixed with 20 to 25 Kg sand and broad cast uniformly throughout the pond. Application of water sanitizers [potassium permanganate (400 grams/acre), salt (30 to 60 kg per acre), benzalkonium chloride (1 liter per acre)].