 With new developments in information technologies and artificial intelligence, many new technologies are percolating in horticultural sector also. Some of the technologies such as IoT (Internet of Things), digital twins, artificial intelligence, drone or unmanned aerial vehicle (UAV), big data analysis, climate smart sensors, etc. have immense potential in horticulture. There is no second opinion about the probable advantages of these technologies in enhancing yield and quality of the produces. Some of the technologies such as Block chain management, crop area assessment, e-marketing, etc. have enabled better prospects of marketing for the growers to gain higher returns from horticulture industry in the country. The objectives of the conference are to take stock of the achievements in this new arena, set priority utilization of these new technologies in different horticulture crops to facilitate sustainable horticulture production. Keeping with emerging demand, the conference would deliberate upon rapid technological advancement in different areas, viz. IOTs, artificial intelligence (AI), machine learning (ML), big data, etc. to create new avenues for smart cultivation. I am glad that the special issue of ‘Indian Horticulture’ dedicated to 'Digital Horticulture' is being published, coinciding with the National Conference on ‘Digital Technologies for Transforming the Horticultural Sector’. I hope that this special issue will bring a new dimension to the study and understanding of new emerging smart horticulture technologies in the country. I congratulate the team of ICAR-DKMA for bringing out this beautiful compilation and all those experts whose contributions have been included in this special edition. K L Chadha Chairman, National Organising Committee, and President, Indian Academy of Horticultural Sciences, New Delhi Former DDG (Horticulture), ICAR December 2024 Jai Hind! November–December 2024 3 Guest Editorial Digital horticulture for a sustainable future H ORTICULTURE is one of the most productive sectors of Indian Agriculture contributing significantly to the economy. This sector has shown tremendous growth during last 20 years. In spite of this achievement, there are significant challenges faced by the horticulture industry such as inefficient resource management, low productivity, biotic and abiotic stresses, high post-harvest losses, quality and traceability issues, shortage of technical manpower, low profitability and sustainability of the production systems. Digital horticulture offers great opportunities for energy-efficient cultivation. The use of sensors and climate data provides new insights to optimize modern crop cultivation. Digital horticulture mainly describes the digital transformation of horticultural activities such as precise production practices, effective post-harvest management through data initiative content by artificial intelligence and coordinating these with operational models.