 • Collaborative research project, ‘Establishing the International Mungbean Improvement Network’ between Indian Institute of Pulses Research, Kanpur and World Vegetable Centre and to DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 133 PARTNERSHIP AND LINKAGES DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 134 authorize Director, IIPR, Kanpur to sign the project Agreement. • Collaborative research project on ‘Improvement of banana for small holder farmers in the Great Lake Region of Africa’ (Indian Component- Breeding for improved bananas with Fusarium wilt (Fusarium oxysorum f. sp. cubense) resistance) was approved in collaboration with National Research Centre on Banana, Trichy and Bioversity International, Rome. • Collaborative research project on ‘Genetics of insecticide and Bacillus thuringiensis toxin (Bt toxin) resistance in He!icoverpa armigera’. • Collaborative research project on ‘Enabling smallholders to improve the livelihoods, food, nutrition and environmental security through agro- forestry systems’ with Central Agro-forestry Research Institute, Jhansi, Central Arid Zone Research Institute, Jodhpur, and World Agroforestry Centre, Kenya and Oil and Natural Gas Corporation Ltd., New Delhi. • Collaborative research project on ‘Strengthening and Integrating Agricultural Science and Technology Indicators (ASTI)’ in Indian NARES in collaboration with National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (NAARM), Hyderabad funded by International Food Policy Research. • Collaborative research project proposal on ‘Bio- fortification of Rice’ submitted by Indian Institute of Rice Research, Hyderabad for funding under Harvest Plus Programme of CGIAR coordinated by Centre for Tropical Agriculture and International Food Policy Research Institute. Foreign collaborated Project of ICAR South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation • Several training/consultation proposals were received from South Asian Association for Regional Co-operation (SAARC) Secretariat/SAARC Agriculture Centre. • A Regional Training Programme on ‘Field Epidemiology Training Programme for the Veterinarians’ at NIVEDI Bengaluru was held for 18-20 participants from SAARC member countries (Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Bhutan, India, Maldives, Nepal, Pakistan and Sri Lanka) at NIVEDI Bengaluru from 15 to 24 May 2017. • Regional Expert Consultation Workshop on ‘Facilitating the use of microbial pesticides in South Asia’, held at National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru from 11 to 13 August 2017. • The Regional Expert Consultation Meeting on ‘Technology Sharing of Spice Crops in SAARC Countries’ was held at Indian Institute of Spice Research, Kerala from 11 to 13 September 2017. Afghan National Agricultural Sciences and Technology University • A course was conducted on ‘Agronomy of Food and Oilseed Crops’ from 7 January to 4 February 2017; and two courses on ‘Soil Science 1 and 2’ from 6 February 2017 to 18 March 2017 at IARI, New Delhi.