40 Total Women Owner Cultivators (2001) 41.30 Total Women Agriculture Wage Workers (2001) 50.09 Total Women Household Industry Workers (2001) 08.08 Total Women Other Workers (2001) 27.57 Total Women in Organized Sector (1999) 04.80 Total Women in Livestock, Forestry, Fishing, Hunting, Plantation, Orchards and activities (1991) 01.32 Source: Census (2001) Table 2. Share of farm women in agricultural operations Activity involvement Activity involvement (%) Land preparation 32 Seed cleaning and sowing 80 Inter cultivation activities 86 Harvesting reaping, winnowing, drying, cleaning and storage 84 Source: Census (2001) Role of women in agriculture and its allied fields Mainly rural women are engaged in agricultural activities in three different ways depending on the socio- economic status of their family and regional factors. They work as: • Paid labourers • Cultivator doing labour on their own land • Managers of certain aspects of agricultural production by way of labour supervision and participation in post-harvest operations Indian Farming 64 November 2024 The types of agricultural activities taken up by women include sowing, nursery management, transplanting, weeding, irrigation, fertilizer application, plant protection, harvesting, winnowing, storing, etc. Livestock is the primary livelihood activity used to meet household food needs as well as supplement farm incomes. It is a common practice in rural areas to give an animal as part of a woman’s dowry. Studies have revealed rural women earn extra income from the sale of milk and animals. Mostly, women are engaged in cattle management activities such as cleaning of animals and sheds, watering of cattle, milking the animals, fodder collection, preparing dung cakes and collection of farm yard manure. Except for grazing, all other livestock management activities are predominantly performed by women. Men, however, share the responsibility of taking care of sick animals. It is evident that the women are playing a dominant role in the livestock production and management activities Key challenges to women’s empowerment in agriculture Land ownership issues: Women may be discriminated against in both statutory and customary law. They may also face discrimination from family members, community leaders, and private corporations and investors. They may have lack of knowledge of their land rights, and may not have the capacity or documents to participate in land governance. Women’s position in the household, family, and community can affect their ability to exercise their land rights. Access to technology: Women do not have access to digital tools to learn about plant health, pest management, and sustainable agriculture practices. Women can use online platforms to connect directly with buyers and get better prices for their products. Credit and financial barriers: Women lack collateral, which affects their ability to invest in better inputs or expand their farming activities.