 The effective rainfall during the monsoon of 2002 that contributed runoff to this khadin was only 11.6 mm. Nearly 35% (4 mm) runoff from upland catchment was harvested and stored in the khadin farm, which enriched the soil profile moisture. The stored moisture was effectively used for raising successful fodder crop of sorghum (CSV 10) during the drought year. Sorghum fodder crop grown in the khadin during the kharif. The stored water was used in growing efficaceous fodder crop during the drought year Maru Sena 3: A Bioformulation of the Biocontrol Agent Bacillus firmus against Macrophomina phaseolina Under the dry and warm growing conditions of arid region, Macrophomina phaseolina, a soil pathogen causes dry root-rot or charcoal-rot in clusterbean, cowpea, mothbean, greengram, etc. During the course of developing management strategies, a soil-bacterium, Bacillus firmus, inhibiting the growth of Macrophomina phaseolina, was isolated from arid soils. After working out the potential value of the biocontrol agent, bioformulation of this strain was developed in an inert material at the CAZRI, Jodhpur.. This bioformulation has been named as Maru Sena 3. One packet of 200 g is sufficient to treat legume seeds for sowing in 0.4-ha land. WEED MANAGEMENT Management of Parthenium through Mexican Beetle (Zygogramma bicolorata) A release of 500 Mexican beetles was made on Parthenium weed during the year 2000 in Sonpur village of Jabalpur district. Today vast area (more than 100 hectares) of waste and grazing land in and around Sonpur village is witnessing excellent control of Parthenium. A very heavy population of both adults and larvae has completely defoliated the plants along with fruits and flowers. Several releases involving hundred and thousands of beetles have been made in the past both in rural and urban areas. Intercropping Cowpea in Maize Suppresses Weeds and Supplements Nitrogen Weeds often invade inter-row spaces in wide spaced crops like maize. The quick growing and rapid canopy forming crops such as cowpea can be successfully intercropped with maize (1 : 1). Experiments conducted at Jabalpur have revealed The improved khadin at Baorli-Bambore watershed. The entire khadin system becomes a self-contained unit for winter cultivation. However, during severe drought years the khadins are used for monsoon cultivation also DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 86 GROWING PROBLEM OF INVASIVE WEEDS IN INDIA The alien invasive weeds have been a growing problem in Indian agriculture and environment. In north-eastern states, a serious invasion of exotic weed shiah-kanta (Mimosa himalayana syn M. rubicaulis) has been reported in the world famous Kaziranga National Park, Assam. The weed originally used as a cover crop to prevent soil erosion in tea gardens has escaped into the forest areas. Spread by wind-blown seeds, the profuse growing weed has virtually taken over the entire game sanctuary.