 Since, most the fodder crops are shy seed bearer; it requires adoption of better technology in seed production to enhance quality seed production. Hence, to ensure assured supply of fodder seeds at the appropriate time to farmers, fodder seed production will be taken up in Departmental Farms by adopting better 519 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 technology and by providing adequate infrastructure like bore wells/open wells, farm ponds, percolation ponds, pipelines, ground level reservoirs, overhead tanks, fencing, farm roads, erection of transformers, godowns, drying yards, store rooms, procurement of agricultural machineries etc. Besides, Vermicomposting units will also be established in all the farms to enhance the fodder/fodder seed production. Distribution of tree fodder seedlings to farmers During dry periods, feed shortage is often experienced and therefore feed of low quality is used. The animals are not able to obtain enough energy and protein to grow or to produce milk. Sometimes animals are even fed less than the daily ‘maintenance requirements’ as the green fodder is scarce. During these periods, fodder trees become important source of energy and protein to maintain the animal, improve growth rates and even increase milk production. Hence, to enlighten the farmers on the importance of raising and feeding tree fodder, tree seedlings of various fodder tree varieties according to the regional adaptation will be raised in departmental farms and distributed to farmers across the State for raising them in their fields. It is proposed to distribute 50 lakhs seedlings to the farmers. Water conserving hydroponic green forage production to augment livestock productivity A major concern in developing sustainable dairy farming is inadequate availability of green fodder. The major constraints in production of green fodder by dairy farmers are decreasing land holdings size, high cost of land, scarcity of water, more labor requirement for cultivation (sowing, earthing up, weeding, harvesting etc.), requirement of manure and fertilizer, long growth time, non-availability of same quality green fodder round the year, influence of natural calamities etc. As an alternative to conventional method of fodder cultivation is the emergence of hydroponics technology to grow fodder for farm animals without soil and minimum water. Green fodders produced by growing seeds without soil but in water or nutrients rich solutions are known as hydroponics green fodder. Hence, it is proposed to establish Hydroponic units in the Departmental farms and popularize the method among the farmers across the State by establishing mini units in their premises. A sum of Rs 100 crores will be required to establish Hydroponic units at Departmental farms. Establishment of Fodder Production units in Meikkal Lands across the State A large majority of the farming community in our State are small and marginal farmers with limited land holdings.