3 Hindi Chetana Week For compliance of official language policy of Central Government, the University celebrated Hindi Chetana Week from 19th September to 30th September, 2016. Many activities and competitions such as essay competition, noting & drafting, word meaning quiz, hindi poetry and debate competition were held on this Flag hoisting by Dr. Arvind Kumar, Vice Chancellor 24 rani lakshmi bai cENTRAL AGRICULTURAL UNIVERSITY occasion. Dr. Arvind Kumar, Hon’ble Vice Chancellor, and Dr. Khem Chand, Head, Department of Extension Education, IGFRI, Jhansi as Chief Guest of the event rewarded the winners. 10.4 Agriculture Education Day The University celebrated Agriculture Education Day on 3rd December keeping in view the decision of Indian Council of Agricultural Research to observe this day every year to commemorate the birthday of Bharat Ratna Dr. Rajendra Prasad, the first Union Minister of Agriculture (1946) and subsequently first President of India (1950- 1962). The objective of this day is to expose students including schools to various facets of agriculture and its relevance to country’s development, inspire them and attract them towards agriculture, so that they develop interest in agriculture and allied subjects, choose professional career after schooling in some of these courses, engage themselves in agriculture and related activities or become agri-entrepreneur in future. The University celebrated the day by inviting students of Saint Stephen School, Jhansi. A day long activities like Essay writing (Importance of Agricultural Education in Indian Scenario & Agri Entrepreneurship), debate competition (Krishi Siksha: Vardan or Abhishaap) and visit to University farm and laboratories were organized. Mrs. Neerja Kumar, D.G.M. & Circle Head, Punjab National Bank, Jhansi and Shri B. B. Thareja, A.G.M., Punjab National Bank, Jhansi were invited as Chief Guest and Guest of Honour of the events, respectively. The University faculty explained about the developments in agriculture sector since independence, particularly related to spread of agricultural education and its future prospects. Mrs Kumar, Chief Guest gave an insight to the performance of the Indian economy and the role of banking sector in boosting the rural and agriculture sector through product innovation, broadening the reach, promotion of SHGs/ micro enterprises and providing know-how. She also highlighted the opportunities and advantages in adopting digital infrastructure by banking sector in the light of government initiatives to push digitalization 10.5 Jai Kisan-Jai Vigyan Week The University celebrated “Jai Kisan Jai Vigyan Week” from 23rd December to 29th December, 2016 by organizing variety of activities like quiz competitions, group discussions, Scientists-Farmers interactions and showcasing of technological advances in agriculture farming. The week is to be celebrated every year to celebrate birth Dr.