0% **Plants infected brown rots 1st and 2nd inspection None None 3 plants/by hectare ***Re-growth of plants after haulms cut 4th inspection 0.5% 0.5% 0.5% Table 2. Seed standards for hill and plain grown seed tubers Type of seed Grade Size (mm) Corresponding weight (g) Hill seed Seed size 30–60 25–150 Large Above 60 Above 150 Plains seed Seed size 30–55 25–125 Large size Above 55 Above 125 Monitoring in net-house Inspection of seed crop Indian Horticulture 56 well as aeroponic tubers shall be maintained free of potato pests or virus vectors. Failure to keep such pests under control may cause rejection of whole lot maintained in the facility. • All potting or growth media shall be sterile. Clean water shall be used in a laboratory or greenhouse operation. • Hygienic conditions shall be observed strictly during micro-propagation, potting, planting, irrigation, movement, use of equipments, other laboratory and greenhouse practices to guard against the spread of diseases or pests in the facilities used for seed multiplication. • All micro-propagation and greenhouse facilities must be approved as per the standard/guidelines. These facilities must have a changing area between the double doors. • The greenhouse (protected environment) must be “insect proof” and be equipped with a double-door entrance, a provision for footwear disinfestations prior to entering the protected environment and an insect proof ventilation screening on intakes and exhaust openings. • The persons entering the protected environment should use Wellington boots (Plastic boots) and wear lab-coat in the changing area to reduce the chances of inadvertent introduction of vector insects clinging to the clothes. • The materials to be initiated for producing PTCMT must be of a notified variety with confirmed identity. It must be duly documented with respect to origin. • The plants of potato varieties being initiated for tissue culture should be tested in an accredited laboratory for freedom from the following viruses: PVA, PVS, PVM, PVY, PVX, PLRV, PALCV, GBNV, PSTVd, endophytic and epiphytic bacteria and fungi. • Tests must be carried on a minimum of 10 plantlets of each variety. For virus testing ELISA or an equivalent method should be used and for viroid RT- PCR should be used. For fungi and bacteria light microscopy and culturing on media should be done. Sources of seed • The facility should use recognized aseptic initiation and propagation procedures (i.e. follow procedures and use equipment, which will maintain sterile conditions as per standard tissue culture norms). • The initiating facility must maintain information on each variety for review and audit by the competent authority once in a year which includes variety identification and origin, date of initiation and testing results from accredited laboratory. • Valid pathogen testing results are required prior to the initiation of the microtuber production cycle or planting of test tube plantlets in the greenhouse or aeroponics.