 About 50 g urea, 50 g common salt, 10 g baking powder and 100 g jaggery are mixed well and this mixture is fed to the milking cattle once a day for higher milk yield. Keywords: milking animal, urea, common salt, baking powder, Director of Extension Education, Mahatma Phule Krishi Vidyapeeth, Rahuri, Ahmednagar (Maharashtra) 413 722  jaggery 2595 Increasing milk production in cow by feeding of oat seeds with rice starch The practice of feeding rice starch mixed with oat seeds helps in increasing the milk production in animals. Rice starch acts as molasses, which is obtained as a by-product while cooking rice. It is mixed when it is hot enough with the seeds of oat and kept overnight. The following day, it is fed to the animals after salting. This is practiced in Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: oat seed, rice starch, milk production Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2566 Feeding of colostrums mixed with supplements to increase milk production in cow The milk obtained from cow in the beginning of lactation (6-7 days) is usually known as colostrums. The colostrums has rich nutritional value containing high content of proteins, vitamins etc. Generally, it is not in practice to take colostrums for consumption in the form of pure milk or curd. This colostrum is fed to the newly born calf and the excess amount is used to feed the mother cow mixed with desi ghee, basmati rice, pulses and jaggery. The practice of colostrums feeding is continued for 5-6 days. After that the cow is fed with a mixture of wheat, maize and barley. Colostrums is also rich source of antibodies and protects the newly born calf from various infections and diseases. It is also a very suitable feed for the calf for the initial stages especially when it cannot be kept on supplementary feed. This practice is prevalent among the farmers of Bhaderwah tehsil of Doda district in Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: colostrums, calf- feed, enriched colostrums for mother cow Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2562 Increasing milk production in animals with salan mishri Roots of salan mishri (Polygonatum multiflorum), a local growing herb, are dried and powdered. This powder is fed to the animals. It helps in increasing milk production in animals. Besides, it also prolongs milking period.