 KVKs have also spearheaded various initiatives to revolutionize agriculture, including Kisan Sarathi, a digital platform with over 1.74 million registered farmers and more than 5.8 crore advisories sent, and KISAAN 2.0, which integrates over 300 agricultural Apps into a single interface accessible in multiple Indian languages. KVKs embraced drone technology to modernize farming practices and providing the exposure to students through Atal Tinkering Labs. Additionally, initiatives like Landscape Diagnostic Survey (LDS) in pulses across 52 districts and the promotion of FPOs, with KVKs supporting 117 FPOs and functioning as Cluster- Organic cultivation of cabbage KVK Jalandhar incidents, contributing significantly to environmental sustainability. Moreover, the scaling of Integrated Farming Systems (IFS) models across 26 States/UTs, including 31 bankable IFS for 22 States, has not only increased household net income by 39% but also improved dietary diversity scores by 8.57%. These achievements underscore the concerted efforts towards holistic agricultural development and underline the commitment to improving the lives of farmers while fostering environmental stewardship. The third-party evaluation conducted by NITI Aayog Institute - National Institute of Labour Economics Research and Development (2018) sheds light on the significant impact and operational dynamics of KVKs across India. On an average, each KVK covers 43 villages and serves approximately 4,300 farmers, with approximately 80% of these villages located over 10 kilometres away its premises. Notably, off- campus activities outweigh on-campus engagements, emphasizing the KVKs’ proactive outreach efforts. Impressively, 96% of farmers’ requests are attended to by KVKs, demonstrating their responsiveness to farmers’ needs. The adoption of KVK-recommended technologies has led to a notable 42% increase in productivity, while the resultant enhanced incomes are often directed towards improving education, healthcare, and housing. Moreover, each KVK annually trains about 100 individuals in agripreneurship, with approximately 25% of trainees embarking on self-employment ventures thereafter. KVKs also reported a competitive advantage over other organizations providing technology services. The impact study conducted by the International Food Policy Research Institute (IFPRI in 2019 highlights the significant contributions of KVKs to agricultural development in India. It reveals that KVK interventions have resulted in an additional net farm income of %5752 per hectare, demonstrating their effectiveness in enhancing farmers’ livelihoods. Moreover, the study indicates aremarkably high rate of return on expenditure invested in KVKs, with one year of incremental gain covering approximately 12 years of expenditure. Additionally, the Benefit Cost Ratio for expenditure on KVKs is reported to be 11.78, underlining the favourable economic returns generated by KVK initiatives.