 ●Additional Secretary, Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Government of India; Vice Chancellors of State Agriculture Universities; Chairman, Working Group on Agricultural Research and Education, Planning Commission, Government of India; Secretary, Indian Council of Agricultural Research; Financial Advisor (Department of Agricultural Research and Education), Indian Council of Agricultural Research; Director (Finance), Indian Council of Agricultural Research; Chairpersons of different Quinquennial Review Teams; Assistant Directors General (Agricultural Extension); Directors of Indian Council of Agricultural Research Institutes; Zonal Project Directors; Directors of Extension of State Agriculture Universities; Chairpersons of Non-Governmental Organizations; Officials from Department of Agriculture and Cooperation, Directors of Agriculture and officials from different states; Scientists and officers from the Division of Agricultural Extension, Indian Council of Agricultural Research; Scientists from Zonal Project Directorates; Programme Coordinators of Krishi Vigyan Kendras; Comptrollers of State Agriculture Universities; Assistant Finance Accounts Officers of Zonal Project Directorates; Officials from Corporate Sectors; farmers and other stakeholders with whom the Committee had interacted to get their feedback concerning improvement in the Krishi Vigyan Kendra system. ●Dr. K.D. Kokate, Deputy Director General (Agricultural Extension), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, for his untiring efforts in providing required information and insight as well as his support to organize dialogues with concerned stakeholders. Acknowledgement ●Dr. S. Prabhu Kumar, Zonal Project Director and Member Secretary of the Committee and Dr. B.T. Rayudu, Principal Scientist (Agricultural Extension), Zonal Project Directorate, Zone VIII, Bangalore for ensuring various logistics and for drafting this report. High Power Committee on Management of Krishi Vigyan Kendra The Hon’ble Union Minister for Agriculture and President of Indian Council of Agricultural Research Society constituted a High Power Committee under the Chairmanship of Dr.R.S. Paroda, Former Secretary, Department of Agricultural Research and Education, Govt. of India and Director General, Indian Council of Agricultural Research to revisit all relevant issues pertaining to functioning of Krishi Vigyan Kendras and suggest measures to ensure their efficiency and effectiveness in meeting the stakeholders’ expectations.