 The weight of the implement is 102 lbs, repaired locally by local artisans (Mumbai, Maharshtra). ICAR (1960) 7 Rintey Madike or nagali for land preparation The plough is made up of Babool/teak wood and mild steel. The body and shoe are prepared from one piece. Handle is separate. The beam is curved in to middle and it can be hitched to wooden yoke by a rope and operated with one pair of bullocks and one person. It can be manufactured and repaired by the local artisans. It has coverage of 0.33-0.5 acre/day. It can be used throughout the year by all the farmers of this ICAR (1960) 110 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference region. It has 2-4 lbs of iron part and 46-64 lbs of wooden part. It can cut the width of furrow of about 8 inches (Telengana, Andhra Pradesh; Gulbarga, Bidar and Raichur, Karnataka). 8 Chivettumaram for puddling This implement is manufactured by village craftmen with teak wood, 15 lbs in weight and covers 1 acre/day. It is used in a ploughed field under water to do puddling at least 2-3 times in the same field. The implement is connected to the yoke by means of a beam and is drawn by a pair of bullocks. About 50-60% farmers use this implement in this regions (South Malabar, Kerala). ICAR (1960) 9 Duck footed plough for ploughing and puddling in paddy It is made up of Babool, tendu, saraj wood and steel with 6 lbs of iron part and 34 lbs of wooden parts. The plough is attached to yoke by means of tying ropes between yoke and beam of the plough. The depth of the ploughing is 4 inches and width is 6 inches. It has a coverage of 0.75 acres/day and had source of operating power is two bullocks and one man. It is manufactured and repaired locally. Almost all the farmers in the region use this for ploughing and puddling in paddy fields. This type of plough is also used in Ranchi(Jharkand) and Saran (Bihar) (Raigarh, Madhya Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 10 Sheopur plough for land preparation This implement has a body and a handle made out of one piece. Shoe is separate. It is made up of Babool, kherwood and mild steel. The beam of the implement is attached to the yoke by means of rope, manufactured and repaired locally. It can be operated with one pair of bullocks and one person and has a work rate of 0.5 acre/day. The draught of this implement varies from 125-200 lbs in light soils with average depth and width of 5-6 and 8-9 inches respectively. The weight of the implement is 45-55 lbs with a service life of 2-4 years (Sheopur, Morina, Jhabua and Indore, Madhya Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 11 Use of Nangar plough in black soils for land preperation It is made up of Babool, teakwood and mild steel with a weight of 60 lbs. The yoke is tied to the beam by means of a rope to prepare seed beds of various crops in black soils. It can be operated with one pair of bullocks and one man with a work rate of 0.5-1 acre/day and has the average draught of 150-209 lbs.