 The increase in volume after soaking was 2.8 times whereas increase in volume after boiling was 3.25 times than that of fresh seed volume. The volume of the boiled soybean was considered for design of the process chamber. The developed hawaijar making system has the maximum operating temperature and pressure of 125oC and 2 bar, respectively. Essential oil release kit to control insects in pulses: A low cost ready-to-use kit was designed and developed for its application in retail packets as well as household level metallic drum storage to manage major storage insect-pests of chickpea. The moisture content (% wet basis) of chickpea needs to be brought down prior to storage to 10% for a targeted storage periods of 6-12 months and to 8% for more than a year target period. Initially thermal treatment (60ºC in hot air oven) is given to the chickpeas for an hour. Then 50 mL of garlic essential oil is applied on the strip (5 cm × 1 cm) per 500 g capacity retail packet or container used to store chickpea. The dose may be increased or decreased according to the capacity of storage unit. The stored chickpea needs to be checked at regular intervals to avoid any kind of infestation caused by storage insects in between storage period. Repeat the application of EO on strip each time the drum is opened. Cocoa butter extractor: The developed cocoa butter extractor comprises of feeding hopper, cylindrical barrel, helical screw, heating coil, temperature controller, cocoa butter outlet and cake outlet. The helical screw moves the cocoa nibs, compresses the mass leading to release of the oil and production of the cake. The heating coil which surrounds the barrel surface, enhances the oil extraction efficiency of the system. After pressing, the oil gets purified using a centrifugal separator. The cake is then grinded to get cocoa powder. The independent parameters, viz. temperature (80, 100, 120oC), screw rotation speed (50, 70 and 90 rpm) and feed rate (2, 3 and 4 kg/h) were selected based on the results of the preliminary studies. The performance of the developed cocoa butter extractor was evaluated in terms of yield of cocoa butter, time of butter extraction, and extraction efficiency. The quality of cocoa butter and cocoa powder is evaluated in terms of free fatty acids, peroxide value, iodine number, fat content, moisture content and browning index. The maximum cocoa butter yield of 43% was obtained at a barrel temperature of 120°C. But the quality of cocoa butter and cocoa powder was maximum at a barrel temperature of 100°C. The maximum yield obtained at 100°C was 40%. Based on the quality evaluation of cocoa butter and cocoa powder, the process parameters, viz. temperature, screw rotation 11. Post-harvest Management and Value-addition ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 115 machine correctly classified the fresh citrus fruits into two classes, viz.