 The increase in the production of high-value cash crops and nutrient-rich products is not the only primary purpose of agricultural-crop diversiﬁcation; its goal is to balance food production in an environmentally and economically sustainable manner. Agricultural scientists have recommended more ambitious and holistic goals for future agricultural systems, focusing on issues such as climate change, agricultural- land loss, biodiversity loss, and eutrophication caused by nutrient losses from agriculture [11]. Here, the question is inevitable: whether and how farmers respond to bartering their crop portfolio with the changing consumer preferences. On the contrary, poverty, malnutrition, and hunger are major concerns in India along with other less-developed, developing, or developed countries. General Assembly of the United Nations (UNGA) endorsed the Sustainable Developed Goals (SDGs) in 2015. The objective of SDG-2 is to “end hunger, achieve food security, improved nutrition, and sustainable agriculture” by 2030 [12]. This shows that agriculture is the single largest employment-generation sector in the world and a considerable source of income for poor- rural households. India is a country with approximately 1.38 billion people, with more than 50 percent of the working population engaged in agriculture and related activities [13]. Thus, agriculture can act as an important catalyst in ensuring food for all, and as develop- ment targets in India. India is one of the largest producers of milk, pulses, jute, rice, wheat, sugarcane, vegetables, fruit, and cotton in the world [14]. However, the small and marginal farmer- dominated, Indian-agrarian economy constituted 86.21 percent of the world’s production. Their cropped area stood at 47.34 percent in the years 2015–2016 [15]. In addition, India produced approximately 3,496,800.34 MT (2020–2021) of certiﬁed organic products, which include a wide range of food items, such as oil seeds, ﬁbre, sugar cane, cereals and millets, cotton, pulses, aromatic and medicinal plants, tea, coffee, fruits, spices, dry fruits, vegeta- bles, processed foods, and so on. Organic-cotton ﬁbre, functional food products, and other things are produced in addition to edibles [16,17]. Due to small operational-land holdings, it is very challenging to improve the income level of small and marginal farmers only by raising the production or yield level of traditional crops, mainly cereals [18]. Modern farm- ing practices can engender higher levels of income by bringing in high-valued crops, such as cash crops. Under the scenario of chronic or disguised unemployment, high-valued crops are sometimes more labor-intensive that may provide stable employment opportunities and a higher level of income to a larger and vulnerable section of the society [19].