 Likewise, the standardized values of the negative relationship are expressed in the following equation: Y2 = (Ymin −Y) (Ymax −Ymin) × 100 Y2 is the normalized value of a negative relationship indicator. Y is the actual value of the indicator. Ymax and Ymin are the maximum and minimum values of the indicators in the total sample. For some in­ dicators, the proportion of the indicator value compared to the default or required value is used for normalization as described below. Y3 = Y Maximum Acceptable or Standard Value × 100 Where Y3 is the normalized value of an indicator of a positive rela­ tionship. Y is the actual value of the indicator. Results The results of the AWPI are shown spatially in Fig. 2. As Fig. 3 shows, the agricultural water poverty situation is worst in the eastern part of Vihamandawa and the western part of Hatgaon. The best situation of AWPI was observed in the southern part of Khadke-Madke and the middle area of Hatgaon, Vihamandawa. A spider chart showing all five components can be helpful in understanding the strengths and weaknesses of study area. Capacity and Resources are components that have low values in the study area (Fig. 2). In addition, farmers or regions show high scores for the Use, Access and Environment component of AWPI. There is a negative correlation between Resources and Use, the co­ efficient of which is significant at −0.412 (Table 2 and Fig. 4). Although the different types of water resources are available, people in the study area sometimes use the water inefficiently (Table 2 and Fig. 4). Sub- indicators such as Access, Use and Capacity correlate positively with the Agriculture Water Poverty Index with sufficient statistical signifi­ cance. Strengthening these sub-indicators can increase the water poverty status in agriculture. Each component used in the index is expressed as follows: Figs. 5 and 6 Resource component The government can focus on water management of the Jayakwadi dam’s canals. There is a large discrepancy between indicators ’total number of irrigations in the crop cycle’ and ’numbers of irrigation sources’ in the resource components. Resource component is the weakest component observed in the study area (Fig. 7). Khadke-Madke and central part of Vihamandwa were of average value while Maygaon and Apegaon were low value. Other vil­ lages recorded below average and slightly above average values (Fig. 3). The main crop in the study area is sugarcane, which requires an annual rainfall of 750 mm to 1500 mm. The mean value of 750 mm to 1500 mm is used to measure the precipitation indicator. Since the average annual rainfall over the last 19 years is around 750 mm on most farms; It can be said that sugarcane cultivation is highly dependent on irrigation from dams. Villages like Apegaon and Maygaon, which are very close to the Godavari River basin, have poor assessment of resource components. This indicates that the dam’s water supply is an important source for sugarcane cultivation.