 Some of Recommended varieties for Fruit Nutrition Garden Sr No. Fruit Plant Recommended Varieties 1 Amla Neelam 2 Bael Kagzi 3 Banana Grand Naine 4 Ber Sanaur-2 5 Fig Brown Turkey 6 Grapes Perlette,Flame seedless and Punjab MACS purple 7 Grapefruit Star Ruby 8 Guava Shweta,Punjab Kiran,Punjab Apple Guava 9 Jamun, Phalsa and Karonda Local 10 Lemon/Lime Baramasi lemon/Kagzi lime 11 Loquat Golden Yellow 12 Mango Amarpali 13 Papaya Red Lady 786 14 Peach Shan-i-Punjab 15 Pear Punjab Beauty 16 Plum Satluj Purple /Kala Amritsari grafted 18 Pomegranate Bhagwa 19 Sapota Kallipatti 20 Sweet orange Blood Red, Musambi TECHNICAL SPECIFICATIONS Size : Royal Octavo (16 cm x 24 cm) No. of pages : i-viii + 808 Price : ` 1500 Postage : ` 100 Handbook of Agricultural Engineering Agricultural Engineering interventions have led to significant improvement in agricultural productivity by timeliness of operations, reduction in drudgery, prevention of post-harvest losses and achieving higher cultivation intensity. Timely farm operations with efficient use of inputs, post-harvest processing and value addition to agricultural produce and conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are essential for ensuring higher returns to the cultivators. This is the maiden attempt of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research to publish the Handbook of Agricultural Engineering. The handbook comprises 50 chapters under four sections, namely Farm Machinery and Power, Soil and Water Engineering, Energy in Agriculture and Agro-Process Engineering. This publication would be useful to farmers, students, researchers, extension workers, policy makers, entrepreneurs and other stakeholders. For obtaining copies, please contact: Business Manager Directorate of Knowledge Management in Agriculture Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan I, Pusa, New Delhi 110012 Telefax: 011-2584 3657; E-mail: bmicar@gmail.com Indian Horticulture 34 S K Malik*, Ravish Choudhary, N S Panwar, O P Dhariwal, R P S Deswal, Niti Pathak and Rekha Chaudhary Prospects Traditional importance of Indian butter tree and genetic resources management Madhuca longifolia (Koenig) Macbr. (syn. M. indica Hamilton ex Gmet.) locally known as Mahua is an important tropical tree species having vital socio-economic value for the tribal populations of India. Vast genetic diversity of this species exists in tropical and sub-tropical parts of India. During various surveys, a total of 154 accessions were collected from different phyto-geographical regions. Substantial variability was present in collections made from west-central region especially from the states of Rajasthan, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh and from southern states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu. It is a multipurpose tree providing food, fuel, timber, green manure, oil, liquor and raw materials for several commercial products.