 An investment of about ` 5-6 lakh is required for machinery in farm-level establishment of a packhouse. Table 1. Machinery and equipment for the establishment of the packhouse Equipment Application Weighing balance Weighing of raw material, other material Washers Washing of fruits and vegetables Sorting tables (Qty-2) Sorting/ removal of damaged, bruised fruits and vegetables (Size: 4*6 ft) Grader Grading of round fruits (Capacity: 300 kg/h) Dipping tanks Treatments of fruits and vegetables with chemicals Refractometer Measurement of TSS content Penetrometer Measurement of firmness, tenderness, texture Pallets (Qty: 5) Placing of fruits and vegetables in crates Crates (Qty: 20) For storage of fruits and vegetables Racks for storage/drying (Qty: 4) Placing crates on racks Vegetable cutting, slicing, dicing, and shredder machine (Capacity: 80- 100 kg/h) Minimal processing of vegetables Cling Wrapping machine For shrink wrapping of fruit/ vegetables Pedal Operated sealing machine For packing of minimally processed vegetables Cold storage (1 tonne capacity) Storage at suitable temp and RH for a long time Steps implemented by ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana for on-farm handling of fresh fruits and vegetables The following process was followed by ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana, under the FFP for the on- farm handling of fresh fruits and vegetables: • Identifying the farmers from Punjab who growing horticultural produce and are interested in value- addition. • Providing training to these farmers, usually conducted at agricultural centres such as PHPTC at PAU, Ludhiana and ICAR-CIPHET, among others. • Assistance in setting up a facility or unit on the farm specifically designed for handling fresh fruits and vegetables. Visit to Horticulture Department, Nawanshahr Meeting with villagers to establish a module for fresh handling of horticultural crops Various activities conducted for the identification of beneficiaries Outcomes and Farmers' Experience • The FFP team at ICAR-CIPHET, Ludhiana organized farmer-scientist interface meetings to identify beneficiaries for on-farm processing and value- addition of horticultural produce. This meeting focused on discussing existing activities, marketing strategies, and processing techniques, as well as identifying suitable villages for the Farmer FIRST project implementation. • Training programs on post-harvest management and value addition were conducted to help farmers learn how to reduce losses and improve the quality of their fruits and vegetables. Farmers highlighted post-harvest losses and marketing challenges as significant issues that need to be addressed through effective packaging and storage techniques. In Indian Farming 45 October 2024 addition to training, exposure visits were conducted by ICAR-CIPHET to provide insights into available opportunities in on-farm handling and processing.