 Hot and dry conditions are congenial for increasing the population of red spider mites. Under optimal conditions when temperature range is approximately 27°C, the red spider mite hatch within 3 days and become sexually mature in 5 days. One female can lays up to 20 eggs per day and can live for 2 to 4 weeks. Female lay hundreds of eggs at one time. This accelerated reproductive rate of red spider mite allows to accelerate its populations to adapt quickly and also increase the resistance against pesticide. These are the factors which influence the increasing incidence of red spider mite in brinjal throughout the country. Methodology adopted for technological interventions The studies carried out from time to time in brinjal growing areas of Dehradun under Horticulture Technology Mission Project during 2015 and 2016 envisaged that incidence of red spider mite was earlier not a problem in brinjal. However, in recent years, red spider mite has become a serious pest of brinjal and caused enormous economic loss to the growers in May to July. It was also noticed that all the hybrids and varieties of brinjal were affected severely due to incidence of red spider mite under unprotected condition. The diagnostic survey was conducted in various parts of brinjal growing areas of Dehradun district during 2015 and 2016. The survey and discussion was held with brinjal farmers to find out their practical difficulties in obtaining maximum yield from their brinjal crops. From the survey, incidence of red spider mite emerged out as one of the major constraints in production of brinjal. Besides, most of the farmers were not aware about the quality and effective acaricides in the area which resulted in high incidence of red spider mite. The observations on varieties, hybrids, incidence of red spider mite, judicious use of chemical pesticides, their time of application, pest monitoring, nursery raising etc were recorded during group discussion with farmers. It was found that majority of the brinjal New interventions to manage red spider mite in brinjal The red spider mite has become one of the most serious threats of brinjal in Northern India. It causes enormous economic loss during May-July. All the varieties and hybrids grown in Northern India have been found susceptible against red spider mite. In our country, acaricides have not been developed which kill eggs, nymphs and adults of red spider mite. Accordingly, we have identified the acaricide namely hexythiazox which kills the eggs, whereas another acaricide propargite which kills the nymphs and adults. Hexythiazox has ovicidal action while propargite has adulticidal action. Three applications of both the acaricides gave tremendous impact on management of red spider mite and enhancement of production and profitability of brinjal in Dehradun, Uttarakhand. S S Singh*, Rakesh Mer and Renu Technology Indian Horticulture 46 farmers were not aware about the symptoms of red spider mite and its incidence.