 Public extension programmes are faltering and don’t teach farmers much new information. Between research and extension, or between these services and the commercial sector, there is not enough linkage. The management of irrigation systems and drainage systems is to be improved. India’s major use of water is agriculture. The necessity to plan and manage water on a river basin and multi-sectoral basis have been underscored by the growing rivalry for water among industry, residential consumption, and agriculture. It is anticipated that there will be less water available for irrigation Women in Agriculture: Status, Scope and Opportunities 8 | as urban and other demands increase. There must be ways to significantly increase irrigation productivity (“per drop more crop”). Among the measures that could be taken care piping conveyance, better on-farm water management, and the use of more effective delivery methods like drip irrigation. The usage of groundwater must also be managed rather than exploited. Beyond infrequent measures, incentives to pump less water, such as levying electricity fees or community monitoring of use, have not yet been successful. Other top priorities include (i) modernizing the Irrigation and Drainage Departments to incorporate farmers’ and other organizations’ involvement in managing irrigation water; (ii) improving cost recovery; (iii) rationalizing public expenditures, with a focus on completing projects that will yield the highest returns; and (iv) allocating enough funds for operations and maintenance to ensure the sustainability of investments. Promoting the diversification of agriculture into higher-value commodities: A key driver of increased agricultural growth will be motivating farmers to switch to higher value crops, especially in rain-fed regions with high levels of poverty. Additionally, there is significant opportunity to develop competitive value chains from producers to metropolitan areas and export markets through the expansion of agro-processing. Farmers and business owners should be given the freedom to pursue diversification efforts, but the government can first and foremost loosen restrictions on marketing, transport, export, and processing. It may also have a minor regulatory role to play, taking care to avoid becoming a hindrance. Key commodities with great growth potential: Dairy is one agricultural subsector that has a very high potential for growth. 70 per cent of rural Indian families, the most of whom are poor and headed by women, rely on the livestock sector for their income, which accounts for over a quarter of the agricultural GDP. Milk production has grown quickly, at a rate of roughly 4 per cent annually, but future domestic demand is anticipated to increase by at least 5 per cent annually. However, the poor genetic quality of the cows, insufficient nutrition, limited access to veterinary care, and other issues limit milk production.