8 Chemical control (phorate)81.3 11.5 Control 58.6 34.2  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT Table 4. Treatment in standing crop and incidence of termites Treatment Incidence (%) T1 Lime + salt (ITK) 61.3 T2 Salt 64.6 T3 Phorate 44.2 T4 Control 90.4 CONCLUSION The use of ITK (lime+salt) showed positive effect on the control of termite, though comparatively less than the recommended practice of using phorate. However, the reduction in population of termites could not be attributed to lime and salt, as the irrigation too affected the mobility pattern of termites in the soil. Further, the replications were not sufficient to draw valid conclusion. The experiments are still in progress and the results are awaited. In the second condition of ITK application in standing crop, though termite infestation was observed in the setts, restoration of health and vigour of the crop were observed. Earlier, the crop was pale yellow in colour, sickly and with poor growth.  PEST AND DISEASE MANGEMENT Code : 1419 Title of the ITK : Control of termite by horse droppings in sugarcane field Description of the ITK : Insecticidal properties present in horse drop controls termite infestation in sugarcane field. Horse droppings are mixed with the soil of sugarcane field @ 100 g/ha by ploughing and left for a few days. This ITK is practised in Trikuti village of Deoghar Block of Deoghar district (Jharkhand). It controlled 70% of t ermite infestation. Cost: benefit of this practice is approximately 1:10. About 30–40% loss in production, and almost all sugarcane fields are affected by termite in the referred village. Name and address of the discloser: Shri Satyendra Singh, Agrarian Assistance Association, Bandarjori, Dumka (Jharkhand) Location of use of the ITK : Village Trikuti, Block Deoghar, Deoghar (Jharkhand) Experimenters : Dr P.K. Singh, Jr. Scientist (Entomology) and Dr Moti Ram, Associate Director, Zonal Research Station, Dumka (Jharkhand) METHODOLOGY Location The experiment was conducted in village Trikuti, block dis Deoghar, Deoghar (Jharkhand). PRA and field study The reported ITK was compared with chemical control measure and another ITK i.e. use of Table 1. Matrix scoring for assessing the performance of application of horse droppings in controlling termite infestation in sugarcane field Parameter Use of Use of Chemical horse kerosene control droppingsoil Extent of termite 7.8 5.6 7.2 control Performance of crop 8.5 6.0 8.0 Yield 8.4 6.5 8.2 Availability 4.9 8.0 6.4 Cost effectiveness 9.0 5.0 8.0 Fig. 1. Sugarcane field treated by horse droppings to control termite kerosene oil through PRA by involving 15 respondents. The parameters or factors included the extent of termite control, performance of crop and yield. Experiment The experiment was conducted in the third week of February 2003 in RBD design in 10 replications having four treatments, viz.