 New Delhi 6 March 1978 M S SWAMINATHAN Dire~·/or-Genel"a{ Indian Council of Agricultural Research CONTENTS Preface to lhe Fourth Edition Preface ta the Third Edition Preface lo the Second Edition Preface to the First Edition Technical Services of the ICAR Scope and Nature of the Services Date of Coming into Force of the Service Rules Categories and Grades of the Services Functional Classification Initial Adjustment of the then Existing Employees Career Advancement Promotion Direct Recruitment Appointing Authority Pay Fixation Probation Seniority Annual Assessment Study Leave Reclassification of Left-over Posts Appendices I Pay Scales of Technical Services as Approved by the IV Central Pay Commission and V Central Pay Commission II Classifica1ionofT«hnical Posts into Various Groups Ill Assessment Procedure for Grant of Merit Promo- tion or Advance Increment(s) to Technical Person- a<! IV Model Qualifications for All Functional Groups and for three Categories of Technical Services of the !CAR V Revised Composition of Selection Committees/De- partmental Promotion Committees for Various Grades under Different Categories ofTechnical Serv- ices VI Proforma for Annual Assessment Report for Tech- nical Personnel I I I 2 2 3 6 7 ' 9 9 9 9 9 9 II 12 18 4-0 41 47 VII Proforma for Supplementary Information to be Fur- 56 nished by the Technical Personnel for their Subse- quent Assessment for Grant ofMerit Promotion VIII Merit Promotion on the Basis of Asses5Illent in Tech• 58 nical Service-Proforma for SubmissionoftheRec- ommendations of the Assessment Committee for Approval ofthe Appointing Authority IX Technical Services of the ICAR-Disciplinary/ Ap- 60 pellate Authorities at the ICAR Hqrs and at the Re- search Institutes X Important Letters/Circulars Issued from Time to nme 62 Regarding Amendments made in the Technical Serv- ice Rules ofthe ICAR TECHNICAL SERVICES OF THE !CAR (Technical Service Rules, 1975, as modified on J February 2000) Scope and Nature ofthe Services I. All posts, the incumbents of which are engaged in performing technical services in support of research and education, whether in laboratory, workshop or in field, in areas like library, documentation, publications and agricultural communication, constitute the Technical Services. There will be no common cadre. The posts will be borne on the strength of the respective Institutes or the Headquarters of the Council, as the case may be. Date of Coming into Force of the Service Rules 2. The Technical Service Rules came into force w.e.f. 1.10.1975. The anomalies arisen in the implementation of these Rules were identified and their solutions, as modifications to 1M existing T!M;hnkal Service Rule.s, were notified on 3 February 2000 with prospective effect. Categories and Grades of the Servit:es 3.