 In his absence the members present shall choose a member to be the Chairman of the meeting. Seven members of the Governing Body present in person shall constitute the quorum for meeting of the Governing Body. 47. Each member of the Governing Body, shall have one vote. The matters to be determined by the Governing Body shall be decided by the majority votes. Provided that (1) In the event of there being equality of votes on any ques- tion to be decided by the Gov- erning Body, the Chairman shall have a casting vote. (2) In the event of disagreement be- tween the Member-Finance and the Chairman of the Governing Body on any financial matter beyond the delegated powers of the Director-General as Secre- tary to the Government of In- dia, the matter may be referred to the Ministers of Agriculture and Finance for decision. 48. Any business, which it may be necessary for the Governing Body to perform, except such as may be placed before the annual meeting of the Society, may be performed by a resolution in writing circulated among all its members, and, any such resolution so circulated and approved by a majority of the members shall be as effectual and binding as if such resolution had been passed at a meeting of the Governing Body. 49. The proceedings of all Governing Body meetings and resolutions passed, referred to in. Rule 48 above, shall be submitted by the Secretary to the Chairman of the Governing Body for approval. (3)* Substituted by the ICAR Society at its Special General Meeting held on the 3Oth January, 1976 and approval accorded by the Government of India vide Ministry of Agriculture & Irrigation (Department of Agricultural Research and Education) letter No. 24(2)/76-CDN-I dated 17.4.76 for :- "46. Four members of the Governing Body present In person shall constitute the quorum for meting of the Governing Body." 19 Action on proceedings 50. The proceedings of the meetings of the Governing Bod] shall be submitted to the President before implementatioi of the decisions contained therein. X. ACCREDITATION BOARD Accreditation is a process of quality assurance whereby an approved institution 01 programme is critically apprised, at intervals, by a group of external peers as to whether ar institution or programme met the norms and standards prescribed by the Council from time tc time. The Accreditation Board should be a fairly strong body under the ICAR umbrella and shoulc have powers to control implementation of the norms and standards agreed by the Board. Objectives of the Board 1. To assist the people, prospective students, educationa institutions, professional societies, potential employers Govt. and other concerned agencies in identifying those institutions and their programmes which meet the minimurr norms and standards prescribed by the Council. 2. To provide guidance for the improvement of existing agricultural education institutions/programmes and alsc to develop new institutions/programmes.