0 app provides a single interface in multiple Indian languages for Indian farmers to access agricultural knowledge about crops, horticulture, livestock, fisheries, natural resource management, agricultural engineering, agricultural education and agricultural extension. Black Pepper Drought Transcriptome Database (BPDRTDb) consists of characterizations of black pepper genotype and its web resource will serve as valuable resources for new genes discovery as well as developing SSR maskers in endeavour of higher crop production. ICAR carried out research activities focusing on farm women nutritional security, livelihood enhancement, technological empowerment, drudgery reduction and entrepreneurship development. Under the ICAR-CIWA-IRRI collaborative project a Women Farmer Producer Company named “Chitri Dora” was formed with the help of guarantee partner PRAGATI at Koraput involving 1,031 tribal women farmers, covering 30 producer groups, for collective marketing of aromatic rice. For farm women a manual disc ridger was also developed and tested for operational parameters to form ridges and channel with proper work rest cycle. The output capacity is 427 m2/h, which is more than 5 times the traditional method of using spade. Information, communication and publicity services: The ICAR-DKMA publishes periodicals, books, handbooks, Annual Reports, newsletters, bulletins, monographs, e- books, media columns, social media contents and advisories. The knowledge banks are available in open access as well as in closed access models to the stakeholders in agriculture. ICAR-DKMA has already taken steps to disseminate knowledge by using up-to-date most popular ICT tools for benefitting the national as well as international agricultural world. The Indian Journal of Agricultural Sciences and The Indian Journal of Animal Sciences, the monthly research journals of international repute are in the open access mode (http://epubs.icar.org.in/ejournal). The journals have a wide clientele and received a total of 1865 (Animal Sciences) and 2794 (Agricultural Sciences) submissions, respectively during the reporting period. The user base of the journals is expanding and 2125 and 3273 new users have associated making the total tally to 21,154 (Animal Sciences) and 40,926 (Agricultural Sciences) users. The journal website was visited nearly 45000 times with audience belonging to 143 countries. The journals have considerable metrics, viz. impact factor and H index are 0.22 and 26 for Agriculture and 0.21 and 22 for Animal sciences given the fact that these are multi-disciplinary in nature. Popular periodicals like Indian Farming and Indian Horticulture, and Kheti and Phal Phool were brought out on topical issues for outreach to the masses. To disseminate information in real-time, the ICAR website is updated on a regular basis and in total 4,589 pages were updated and a total of 45,77,864 page views from more than 200 countries were recorded.