 Saran (Principal Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plant Research, Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: plsdehradun@gmail.com Yellow paper wasps on flower of on elite DTWr-1 Different berry stages and mature berries damaged by Red-Vented Bulbul in DTWr-1 September–October 2023 25 Prospects Conservation of medicinal and aromatic plants in India: Current status and future prospects Biodiversity encompasses all the organisms, species, populations, genetic variation and assemblages of communities and ecosystems among these organisms. The variety and variations in biodiversity occurring in nature, has sustained the harmonious existence of life on earth wherein Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (MAPs) are being used in traditional and modern medicine worldwide. India poses a rich diversity of MAPs but the climate change is a real threat to this rich diversity. Also, the indiscriminate use of medicinal plants from wild, to cater the growing demand is leading to the loss of MAPs diversity. Therefore, an integrated approach towards conservation of the rich MAPs diversity should be followed globally which includes in situ and ex situ conservation strategies along with sustainable utilization of the biodiversity. B IODIVERSITY contributes significantly towards human livelihood and development, and thus plays a predominant role in the well-being of the global population. According to WHO, more than 80% of drugs used today across the world are derived from medicinal plants and more than 85% of population of the world use medicinal plants for their healthcare. Natural substances have long served as sources of therapeutic drugs, where drugs including digitalis (from Foxglove), ergotamine (from Claviceps infected rye), quinine (from Cinchona), salicylates (Willow bark), vinblastine & vincristine (Periwinkle) and Artemisinin (Artemisia) can be cited as some classical examples. India is a rich reservoir of valuable genetic resources of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (MAPs) as it is gifted with diverse geographic and agro-climatic zones and a rich culture of folklore and traditional knowledge. The use of this knowhow in the healthcare has resulted in the application of MAPs in large numbers in our traditional systems of medicines called as “Indian systems of medicine (ISM)” which consists of Ayurveda, Siddha, Unani and Homoeopathy, and therapies such as Yoga and Naturopathy. It is estimated that more than 6,000 higher plant species forming about 40% of the higher plant diversity of the country are used in its folk healthcare. Out of these species, 960 medicinal plant species are under trade, in which 178 species are very high in demand (>100 MT per annum). These species accounted for almost 80% of the total industrial demand of all botanicals in the country. But out of 178 medicinal plants species in high trade, only 36 species are sourced largely from cultivation and rest from the wild.