5 m above the ground. Compost making with heap formation Minimum 4 feet height should be maintained for composting. The composting area should be elevated one and have sufficient shade. While heap formation, all the crop residues should be mixed together to form a heterogeneous material rather than a single homogenous material. Alternate layers of carbon and nitrogen rich material with intermittent layers of animal dung are essential. After heap formation the material should be thoroughly moistened. Composting of Paddy Straw Off the Cultivating Area 34 Ex-situ Crop Residue Management Options Aerating the compost material Sufficient quantity of oxygen should be available inside the compost heap. For this external air should be freely get in and comes out of the material. Normally to allow the fresh air to get inside, the compost heap should be turned upside down, once in fifteen days. In this process top layer comes to bottom and bottom layer goes to top. This process also activates the microbial process and compost process is hastened. In some cases air ventilating pipe may be inserted vertically and horizontally, to allow the air to pass through. The wood chip that is available as waste in wood processing industry may also be used as bulking agent in the composting process. This bulking agent gives more air space to the compost material. Moisture maintenance Throughout the composting period, 60% moisture should be maintained. On any situation, compost material should not be allowed to dry. If the material becomes dry, all the microorganisms present in the crop residues will die and the compost process gets affected. The heap can be covered with straw thatch to protect from sunlight and reducing moister evaporation. Compost maturity Volume reduction, black colour, earthy odor, reduction in particle size are all the physical factors to be observed for compost maturity. After satisfying with the compost maturity index, the compost heap can be disturbed and spread on the floor for curing. After curing for one day, the composted material is sieved through 4 mm sieve to get uniform composted material. The residues collected after composting has to be again composted to finish the composting process. Compost enrichment The harvested compost should be heaped in a shade, preferably on a hard floor. The beneficial microorganisms like Azotobacter or Azospirillum, Pseudomonas, Phosphobacteria (0.2%) and rock phosphate (2%) have to be inoculated for one ton of compost. Forty per cent moisture should be maintained for the maximum growth of inoculated microorganism. This incubation should be allowed for 20 days for the organism to reach the maximum population. Now the compost is called as enriched compost. The advantage of enriched compost over normal compost is the quality manure 35 Composting of Paddy Straw Off the Cultivating Area with higher nutrient status with high number of beneficial microorganisms and plant growth promoting substances.