 These neglected diseases affect poor marginalized populations due to a lack of the health resources and research needed to control them effectively. One of the most neglected areas of zoonoses research in our country is rodent-borne diseases. Rodents are seen as pests because of their gnawing habit, which can cause economic losses, spoilage of food and lead to structural damage. Rodents can transmit diseases directly or indirectly. Every year outbreaks of leptospirosis are reported in Mumbai, Thane, and Konkan regions during the monsoon season. The absolute numbers of infectious diseases associated with rodents are not known precisely. However, it has been said that rodents function as reservoirs for approximately 46% of all globally known zoonoses, and more people are considered to have died in the past because of rodent- borne infections than wars. Effective surveillance and control of zoonotic diseases require multi-sectoral collaboration involving the human health, veterinary, agricultural, educational, wildlife and environment, and sanitation sectors. Disease surveillance is an important activity that provides basic data on the disease burden in a country for follow-up actions to control, prevent, and eventually eradicate the disease. To ensure this, a joint effort to utilize the existing surveillance system both in the animal and human sectors and plan to establish a new system for emerging zoonotic disease surveillance is the need of the hour. It is time to take the One Health approach and work on delineating the modalities to face such situations to protect the health of livestock and human. The WHO has outlined four tactical factors for the Indian Farming 23 June 2023 successful control of zoonoses, which includes– a legal framework, a policy framework, institutional structures, and a program implementation plan; but currently, there are gaps in each element. A strong legal and regulatory framework is essential to help enforce disease prevention and control laws and regulations. As differences exist in the policy, vision, and mission of the medical and veterinary sectors with each emphasizing their traditional divided constituencies of public health and livestock production, the policy frameworks and institutional mandates do not favour effective zoonoses control. Antimicrobial resistance (AMR): Antimicrobial resistance is a global problem of complex epidemiology, suited to a broad, integrated One Health approach. Antibiotic resistance is a direct consequence of the selection pressure from antibiotic use in humans, animals, and the environment where they live, requiring a One Health approach towards its containment. Since antibiotics are used for humans and animals, only a One Health approach will identify solutions that address all of these sectors.