 PH-N4, PH-N5, PH- N6, PH-N7 and PH-N9 exhibited very high degree of tolerance up to 40,000 ppm against sodium arsenate, whereas EK1-N4 could withstand 2,000 ppm of sodium (meta) arsenite on NA plates. Fruits Banana: Spraying with Beauveria bassiana (1×107 spores/ml) at 5th, 6th and 7th month after planting controlled banana stem weevil (Odoiporus longicollis). The identity of the banana fruit scarring beetle was conclusively established as Basilepta subcostata for phytosanitary purposes while the presence of Basilepta viridipennis as a pest of banana from India could not be established. Serious infestation of the invasive Jack Beardsley mealy bug was observed on the fruits of many banana cultivars and effective natural enemies of the mealy bug were identified. Two species of thrips, Pseudodendrothrips mori and Anascirtothrips arorai, were observed as banana feeders for the first time. Unravelled soil microbiome of Valley of Flowers, Uttarakhand The Valley of Flowers National Park – a UNESCO national heritage site is situated in representing a virgin and pristine habitat for more than 500 flowering species grow year after year without addition of any fertilizer. The study revealed a high population density of ~2.0 × 109 cfu/g which mainly comprised active microflora as is evident from high activity of soil enzymes like alkaline phosphatase, FDA hydrolase, -glucosidase, aryl sulfatase etc. Using different media, 72 bacterial morphotypes were retrieved while no fungi could be isolated. The cultivable bacterial diversity was also active for production of hydrolytic enzymes like cellulase (21%), amylase (34%), - glucosidase (35%), laccase (25%) etc. The cultivable microflora was also endowed with plant growth promoting traits like production of ammonia (68%) and siderophore (41%), solubilization of Zn (25%) and K (11%). Whole metagenome sequencing revealed that the soil microbiome of Valley of Flowers was dominated by bacteria (~99%) while populations of eukaryotes (0.6%) and archaea (0.2%) were very low. Taxonomic analyses revealed that Bradyrhizobium (8%), Pseudomonas (4%), Streptomyces (3%), Mycobacterium (3%), Pseudonocardia (1%), Frankia (1%), Solirubrobacter (1%) were among the most predominant genera. High abundance of the members of order Rhizobiales (15%) indicated that symbiotic nitrogen fixation must be a major means of available nitrogen. Functional analyses of soil microbiome showed abundance of genes encoding diverse carbohydrate degrading and binding modules indicating them as key player in carbon cycle. The microbiome was rich in genes coding for phosphatases indicating the predominant role of P mineralizers in phosphorus cycle. Genes encoding nitrogen, potassium and sulfur metabolism were also abundant in the soil. a-c, Colour forms of banana scarring beetle; d-e, Asprothrips navsariensis, a new pest of banana foliage in South India. in BPH incidence and chemical pesticide use in DSR in Koppel district, Karnataka.