 Hqs and the NAARM Hyderabad the duties assigned to them involve work relating to research management and coordi- nation which is difficult to reflect effectively in the research project files already in use in the Council/Res. Institutes. Since the work done by the Scientist/Research Management Scientist forms an integral part of his output for the purpose of his five-yearly assessment, it is of paramount importance that the concerned scientist should keep proper records of the work/project work done by him for presentation before the Assessment Committee. It would, therefore, follow that the Research Management scientists at the Headquarters should for the present keep a record of the work done by them in a presentable form devised by themselves. In the meantime, the NAARM is already engaged in an exercise for designing a suitable proforma for the purpose, which can be used by such scientists after finalization in the place of the form they will use till then as indicated above. The record of work done by the scientist as maintained by him may be put up before the Assessment Committee at the time of assessment/ re-assessment. 9. Proper weightage shall be assigned to each of the major items being considered for assessment by allotting marks. The deails in regard to weightage assigned to different Items as also the grant of assessment benefit based on such weightage are given in Annexure III. ANNEXUREI PROFORMA FIVE-YEARLY ASSESSMENT FORM FOR THE SCIENTIFIC PERSONNEL (ICAR) PARTI (To be filled initially in Director IDG's Office) 1. Reported period 2. (a) Name : (b) Father's name 3. Date of Birth/Age : 4. Field of Specialisation (It should be the one in which the candidate has done work for the period of assessment) : 5. Date of induction into ARS and Grade : 6. Date of entry into Council's service : 7. Present position and scale of pay : 8. Duties assigned to the post for which the person has been recruited : 9. Duration of service, if any, in difficult areas neglected, backward etc. (to be indicated with period of service) : 10. Any other basic information : (Besides the above information, the office may be required to furnish at the time of five yearly assessment all the information relevant to a scientist's career before and after entry into the ICAR). ICAR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE 71 PART II (To be filled in by the Reviewee) 1. Educational Career Degree/Diploma/Certificate Class/Grade University/Board/ Year Institute Doctorate Master's Degree or equivalent Bachelor's Degree Matriculation/School Leaving Certificate/ Hr. Secondary/P. U C. 2. (a) Major field of the highest degree and the one lower to that, (b) Highest degree specialisation and subjects along with title of thesis; if any. 3. Additional qualifications/training acquired in India and/or abroad; (List of all part-time and short-term training, not included in educational career). Give dates, duties and duration of course. 4.