 Anonymous (1999c) 182 HORTICULTURAL CROPS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 109 Horticultural production practices of tribals of eastern ghat region of Orissa Some of the ITKs documented include:preservation of horticultural biodiversity by replenishing the harvested produce as in case of tuber crops, preservation and conservation of fruit crops and forest areas due to religious reasons; mulching in turmeric, long-term fruit and vegetable preservation by drying; use of mango kernel as a starch rich food in times of scarcity and the use of cowdung as an effective defence against cattle, control of cuscuta in niger (Orissa). Rath et al. (2002) 110 Maintenance of microclimate in silkworm rearing For creating microclimate in silk worm rearing, farmers hang wet gunny cloths around the rearing room to cool the air that come inside the rearing room. Earthen pots filled with water also serve the same purpose. To combat the intense sun, roof of the rearing house is covered with either sugarcane trash or eucalyptus branches or coconut fronds. An innovative farmer of Maillur village Mr. Munilakkappa, fixed thermocoal sheets to inner walls and ceiling of rearing room which served as a good insulator. Spreading waste fresh leaves (ripe, soiled and other mulberry wastes) on the floor helps in regulating temperature in the rearing room. Raising fingermillet/ mino millet nursery on wet sand beds below the rearing stand also reduce the temperature in the rearing room especially in summer season.Farmers take enough care, while building the rearing houses to manage the optimum rearing conditions. A series of small holes are provided at the base of the walls of the rearing house to push out hot hair and other bad gases. Construction of more number of small windows than having less number of big windows in the rearing room helps to regulate the temperature and relative humidity according to the stage of silkworm growth and season. In addition, if rearing house is small, regulation of temperature and relative humidity is easy. If walls are constructed with cement hollow bricks, the air pocket inside the hollow bricks acts as an insulator (Kolar, Karnataka). Chinnaswamy et al. (2002) 183 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 111 Indigenous and improved methods for the controlling of wilt in brinjal (Solanum melongena) An experiment was carried out during 1995, 1996 and 1997 to evaluate the efficacy and validate the ITK, ie. application of turmeric powder in combination with hing (Asafoetida)in controlling wilt in brinjal cv. Pusa Kranti. Soil drenching and spraying of turmeric in combination with hing @ 1g and 0.1g respectively/litre of water considerably reduced the infestation of wilt and significantly increased fruit yield over control in all the years.Three years mean data sowed an optimum fruit yield of 182.0 q/ha with only 23.6% wilt in comparison to 81.6% wilt and 62.