 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 156 Control of Oryctes rhinoceros beetle in coconut Volume 2, page 310 Kollinchi Bengali: ban-nil-gachh; Gujarati: ghodakan, jhila, sarphankho; Hindi: dhamasia, sarphonka; Kannada: empali, vajuraneeli, koggili; Malayalam: kozhenjil, kaata miri; Marathi: sirapakha, udhadi, unhali; Oriya: kolothiyapokha, mohisiakolothiga, pokha, soropokha; Sanskrit: sharapunkha; Tamil: kolingi, paavali, katkolingi, kolluk-kay-velai. Wild indigo Tephrosia purprea Pers. The dried herb is considered to possess tonic, laxative diuretic and deobstruent properties. It is given for the treatment of boils, pimples and bleeding piles. It is reported to be useful in cough and in kidney disorders. The leaves are reported to be useful in jaundice. The roots and the seeds are reported to possess insecticidal and pesticidal properties. A polymorphic, much-branched, suberect, perennial herb, 30-60 cm high, found throughout India, ascending to an altitude of 1,850 m in the Himalayas. Leaves imparipinnate, 5-15 cm long; leaflets 9-21, narrow, oblanceolate, glabrous above, obscurely silky below, flowers red or purple, in leaf- opposed racemes; pods slightly recurved, 3.7-5.0 cm x 4.0 mm, glabrescent; seeds 5-10, greenish grey, smooth. Twig Contents HORTICULTURAL CROPS Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 399 Control of fruit- and shoot-borer in brinjal by using ranbeli tree bark Volume 2, page 311 Ranbeli Bengali: kait, katbei, Gujarati: kavit, kotha, kavith, kovit; Hindi: bilin, kait, kavitha; Malayalam: vila, vilatti; Marathi: kavatha, kavith, kovit; Tamil: vilanga; Telugu: velanga. Elephant apple, wood apple Feronia limonia (Linn.) Swingle The fruit is considered tonic, refreshing, cordiacal, astringent, anti-scorbutic and alexiformic. It is used as a substitute for bael in the treatement of diarrhoea and dysentery. The leaves are aromatic, carminative and astringent. A small deciduous tree with short, erect, cylindrical stem, 30-40 ft high, and 2-A ft in girth, bearing thorny branches; leaves pinnate, 3-4 in. long, with small ovate or obovate leaflets; flowers polygamous in lax panicles; fruit large, globose or oblate, 1.0-2.5 in. in diameter with hard, rough, woody pericarp; seeds numerous, small, compressed, embedded in a sweetish aromatic edible pulp. The plant is native of India and Sri Lanka (Ceylon) and is found throughout the plains of India, particularly in dry situations. It occurs wild or cultivated, up to an elevation of 1,500 ft in western Himalayas. It is more common in Deccan, Thana district of Maharashtra and in Madhya Pradesh. It is also reported to occur in parts of Hazaribagh and Palamau in Jharkhand.