 Types/methods of seed priming Type of priming Methodology Uses and remarks Hydropriming Soaking of seed in water for a specific period of time Often used in arid regions to improve seed performance in dry soils Osmopriming Soaking in high osmotic potential solutions {(PEG 4000 or 6000), Mannitol} Mostly used in drought-prone regions to improve seed performance in adverse conditions Halopriming Soaking in salt solution (mono /dihydro salts of K, Na, Mg nitrate, phosphate) It permits the controlled entry of water into seed. It can be used against salinity stress Matrix priming Mixing seeds with organic or inorganic carrier and water (sand, arabic, vermiculite) It permits the controlled entry of water into seed Bio priming Exposing seed to beneficial microorganisms (bacteria and fungi) Improves uptake of nutrients, resistance to diseases and pests, and overall health of crops Nano priming Soaking seed with nano materials (metallic, biogenic metallic, polymeric nanoparticles, carbon nano tubes) Improves uptake of nutrients, helps in mitigation of abiotic tresses (heavy metals, salinity, drought), resistance to diseases, and improves overall performance of seed yy Physical treatments to control deep-seated pathogens including viruses. yy Stimulation of germination and/or enhancement of growth during seedling stage by application of nutrients. yy Speedy establishment of beneficial micro-organisms on the roots for fixing nitrogen, enhancing nutrient uptake or stimulating growth by microbes. Seed priming Seed priming process involves soaking of seed in water/ osmotic solution that allows them to imbibe water, go through initial stages of germination, but does not permit the radicle protrusion through seed coat. Seed germination follows a triphasic pattern, which starts from uptake of water during imbibition and is followed by ATP production, mobilization of reserves, initiation of RNA and DNA synthesis, protein synthesis and in the last phase cell expansion and radicle emergence. The goal of priming is to prepare seed for planting and improve the likelihood of successful germination, leading to improved crop yields and reduced crop losses. Among various seed priming methods, nano-priming is relatively new and has several advantages over traditional seed priming methods. The small size of the particles allows for rapid penetration of the seed coat, leading to improved seed germination and viability. Seed priming has numerous benefits, including improved germination rate, improved crop yields, reduced crop losses, and improved quality of crops. Additionally, seed priming can reduce the need for chemical inputs, such as pesticides and fertilizers, making it an environmentally friendly and sustainable technique. Seed invigoration An improvement in seed performance by any post- harvest treatment which involve controlled hydration of seed in high osmotic solution resulting in improved germinability, greater storability and better field performance.