5 mg/kg body weight 15 days prior to start of experiment. All the animals were kept in similar managemental conditions throughout the study. The animals were divided into 3 equal groups, viz. groups A, B and C, for conducting wound-healing study. For creation of wounds, thoraco-lumbar region of each animal was prepared for aseptic surgery. Six equidimensional (3 cm x 3 cm), full-thickness excisional cutaneous wounds, 3 on either side of the vertebral column and 3 cm apart on the dorsal aspect of thoracolumbar region were created under local infiltration anaesthesia (Fig. 1). The animals of group A served as negative control, in which the wounds were dressed with normal saline-soaked gauze. The animals of group B served as positive control, in which 5% Povidone iodine suspension was used Contents CROSS-SECTORAL VALIDATION OF INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE as a dressing agent. The wounds of group C animals were treated with topical application of fresh juice of ridge gourd leaves extracted immediately before each application (Fig. 1). The wounds were dressed daily for 14 days and on alternate days subsequently. Evaluation of healing of wound: Heart rate, rectal temperature and respiration rate were recorded on days 3, 7, 14, 21 and 28 post- operatively and compared within and between the groups. The wounds were also examined to record the degree of inflammation, exudation, underlying tissue-healing changes, granulation tissue formation and percentage of wound contraction. The percentage wound contraction was measured using the formula: where, A = is area (cm2) of the wound at day 0. B = area (cm2) of the wound at day 3, 7, 14,21 and 28. RESULTS AND DISCUSSION Out of the 10 clinical cases of wounds treated at MASFSU, four wounds were fresh, covered with blood clots, whereas six were contaminated with dirt and foreign material. In treatment group of juice of ekdandi, wounds were fresh showing discharge of exudate, and seven were contaminated; whereas in Neosporin treatment group the four wounds were fresh covered with clotted blood, and six were contaminated with mud and foreign particles. The gross visual examination of wound showed the presence of granulation tissues and wound contraction on day 7. The evaluation of wound on day 14 revealed epithelization and wound contraction, whereas on day 21 the wounds in all the three treatment groups showed complete healing. None of the wounds showed suppuration till complete healing in all the three treatment groups. The results indicated that these herbs possessed anti-bacterial activity. The wounds treated with juice of ridge gourd leaves showed the appearance of granulation tissue on day 6 after-treatment, whereas it was observed on day 5 after-treatment in those treated with juice of ekdandi leaves. In Neosporin treatment group the granulation tissue was apparent on day 4 after-treatment. The results revealed the formation of granulation tissue in all the treated groups.