 In the present scenario, farmers are educated, intelligent, attentive, skilled and eager to learn new things that may help in their work. They are using most modern technologies for better production and marketing of their produce. Hence, agriculture is flourishing as agribusiness and it has a better potential to uplift the socio-economic status of the rural community. KVKs are working with a vision of Science and technology-led growth leading to enhanced productivity, profitability and sustainability of agriculture. KVKs have the mission of Farmer-centric growth in agriculture and allied sectors. Capacity building of the farmers about the adoption of new technologies is done through ICAR and SAUs, which are eventually supported by ICAR. The KVKs are not only supporting agriculture but also the allied and non-farm activities through various capacity building programmes. The capacity building of members of self-help groups, commodity interest groups, FPOs is done by KVKs, so that all these groups can work professionally with greater efficiency. The recent human capital development initiatives of ICAR through KVKs included ARYA (Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture), Farmers FIRST programme, skill development of farmers and youths through the Agriculture Skill Council of India (ASCI). KVK also focuses on women-centric capacity building programmes, especially on primary processing of agriculture, horticulture and dairy products through the formation of women self-help groups. All these programmes are developing the man resources for participation and management of village-level institutions and thus helping in fulfilling Gandhiji dream of Swaraj. 8. Way Forward “The future depends on what you do today.” Mahatma Gandhi It is clear from the foregoing discussion that ICAR has made significant contributions to agricultural and rural development with a focus on the needs of disadvantaged regions and sections of the society. Several institutional reforms involving stakeholders’ participation and transparent decision-making have helped in targeting these special groups. Improvement in agricultural productivity and farm income has empowered the farmers that contributed to the empowerment of rural institutions, a major pillar of the Gandhian thoughts. The 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi is an occasion to reaffirm the commitment of ICAR to his vision of agriculture and rural development. ICAR shall continue to make deliberate attempts to improve rural livelihoods and income through technological interventions. Small farmers, women and rural workers shall be the main clients of ICAR, besides addressing the R&D needs of other farmers and agricultural workers. National food security, environmental sustainability, and equity shall continue to guide priority-setting efforts of ICAR. Empowerment of women and small farmers through technological and skill empowerment shall be the main goal.