 As a result, the number of farmers who adopted this technology has increased and the number of chemical pesticides in use has decreased from 14 to 6%, thereby paving the way for a healthy and resilient farming system. Thrips (Sciothrips cardamomi): This is one of the most destructive insect pests of cardamom. The population of this pest builds up rapidly during the post monsoon and summer months and declines with the onset of monsoon rains. This pest was addressed through spraying of ICAR- NBAIR strain of entomopathogenic fungus Lecanicillium lecani and release of ICAR-NBAIR-Anthocorid bug and Chrysoperla sp. It played a significant role in acreage expansion as well as yield enhancement. It was found that the realized yield levels through demonstrations were much higher (15.0%) than the average district yield (6.40 t/ha). The total area of bio-intensive pest management of thrips in small cardamom expanded from 100 to 500 ha. Bore hole symptoms on stem and pupa Bore hole symptoms on capsules Adult borer Apantele sp parasitoids on capsule borer Dead heart symptoms on shoot Beauveria infected adult Microscopic view of adult thrips Thrips on under leaf sheath Green cardamom capsule damaged by thrips Bore hole symptoms on capsules in the productivity of cardamom through adoption of physical, cultural and biological/botanical practices that allow co-existence of natural enemies and beneficial microorganisms which in turn bring back the ecosystem balance in small cardamom production system. In this direction, ICAR-KVK, Idukki has disseminated eco-friendly technologies developed by ICAR-NBAIR, Bengaluru for the management of major pests and diseases of small cardamom through various activities like OFTs, FLDs, trainings, extension programmes and farm advisory services. Over the years, the salient achievements of ICAR-KVK, Idukki for the management of pests and diseases of cardamom by application of ICAR-NBAIR technologies, apart from recommended physical and cultural practices, are described hereunder. Insect pests of small cardamom Shoot and capsule borer (Dichocrocis punctiferalis): It is the most serious insect pest of cardamom and consumes major share of pesticide used in cardamom. The earlier stages of larvae bore the panicles leading to drying up of the entire panicle and also bore the immature capsules and feed on the inner contents of the seeds which lead to empty capsules. The late stages larva feed on the central core of the stem and affect the phloem vessels interrupting the passage of food materials to the growing parts finally leading to drying of central leaf tip Microscopic view of adult thrips Indian Farming Apantele sp parasitoids on capsule borer Thrips on under leaf sheath Beauveria infected adult known as 'dead heart’ symptom.