 Moreover, development of periosteal callus from both ends of the fracture fragments was clearly visible in group B, whereas no callus activity was identifiable in group A at this stage. The bridging of periosteal callus was complete on day 30 after operation in the animals of group B whose radiolucent fracture line also turned hazy toward transcortical aspect of ulna at fracture site, indicating active osteogenesis (Fig. 2 B3). In the animals of group A, the development of periosteal callus was also clear as small radio-opaque area extending beyond the cis and trans cortical margins of ulna at the fracture site in the radiographs taken on day 30 after operation, however, the callus was still at its preliminary stage and was not of bridging nature (Fig. 2 A3). In the radiographs taken on day 45, remodelling of periosteal callus, as evident by reduction in its volume, was very well evident in all the animals of group B (Fig. 2 B4). In this group, the endosteal callus activity in the form of increased radio- density on endosteal site of the ulnar bone was also clear in all the animals. The fracture line turned hazy but was still visible in group B at this stage. But in animals of group A, the bridging of callus was still not complete radiographically even at this stage and the radiolucent fracture line was clearly visible (Fig. 2 A4). The radiographs taken on day 60 after operation revealed further progress in fracture healing in both the groups. However, on comparative basis the fracture union was far more advanced in all the animals of group B than in those of group A. In group B the medullary continuity was restored, further reduction in the amount of endosteal and periosteal callus was seen and the fracture line was barely visible at this stage (Fig. 2 B5). In group A the fracture line was clearly visible, amount of periosteal callus still moderate and the medullary continuity not restored at this stage. Angiographic evaluation On day 0 after creation of fracture, the angiograms were obtained after injection of contrast agent into the brachial artery at the distal third humeral region. They revealed complete opacification of the brachial artery and its distal branches throughout the distal limb in all the animals of both the groups. The relatively wider brachial artery branched into thinner collateral ulnar artery, superficial brachial artery and median artery at the proximal metaphyseal level of radius bone. The main trunks of these branches were clearly visible and well defined throughout their course along side radius and ulna. The superficial brachial and median arteries after originating from main brachial artery immediately gave rise to many prominent smaller arterioles, which coursed proximally, distally and caudally in the adjoining area. The superficial brachial artery once again branched into prominent medial and lateral divisions at about proximal third diaphyseal aspect of radius and ulna.