 When the crop of rearing is over, d have to clean and get the trays smeared with cow dung and go for the next rearing. Women Empowerment & Economic Development/ 39 (E) Role of women in fisheries: There are about 0.5 million fisher households located all along the Indian coast and a total of 3 million fisherfolk inhabiting the coastal villages. The average number of sea going fishermen is 282 in a coastal village. Out of the 1.2 million fisherfolk in post harvestsector, women occupy a considerable proportion of more than 0.5 million (Sathiadhas et al., 1998). In Tamilnadu, women engage themselves in seaweed collection in addition to the traditional jobs of fish curing, marketing, net making and prawn seed collection. Salt-pans are another major sector, which employs a lot of women in Tamilnadu, where the ratio of women to men is 4:1.In Andhra Pradesh, the main occupation of women include collecting fish, and molluscan shells in addition to their contribution in fish drying, curing, marketing, shrimp processing and net making. In West Bengal, fishermen spend only little time in actual fishing and engage themselves in net making, which in other states is dominated by women. In capture fisheries, the role of fisherwomen in the post -harvest sector had been analyzed by many researchers (Madhu, 1989; Krishna Srinath, 1998). The entire processing sector is highly dependent on women as more than 90 per cent of the work force in prawn peeli' ngand 70 per cent in the processing of other fishery products are constituted by them. There was found direct and indirect contribution of women in fisheries sectors, in direct contribution women works as Beach workers, Small scale fish traders, Fish curers, peeling workers, processing plant workers. Total numbers of workers are for doing above works were 1,61,144 out of them 85,761 were women only i.e. 53.22% of total. They also indirectly help in so many woks as Cooking 96%, Childcare & education 89%,Family health 84%, Sanitation 81%,Finance (including repayment 54%oof debts), Petty shops in landing centre 56%, Diesel supply for boats 41%, Mobile food units 66% etc. (F) Pesticides and Women Farmers: Gender differences and inequalities lead to inequity in the health care system since women and men have different occupational roles. 40/Wonmen Empowerment & Economic Developmen. the burden for agricultural productivity. Coupled with lesser access to health reso for and their propensity to wait longer to seek medical care ake them Even in agricultural activities, Women take much of the h. vulnerable to health problems.. Women are at risk: Women generally are more predisposed to accumulatino endocrine-disrupting chemicals and/or facing greater exposures relat to changes in body-fat levels and increased levels of hormonally sensitiva tissues (Ribas-Fito, 2006). Based on the study by Rao, et.al., 2007 pesticide exposure has been linked with a wide range of chronic health effects, immediate and delayed.