 The collaborative efforts between agricultural and technological sectors are paving the way for a more sustainable, efficient, and competitive plantation industry. This integration is crucial for addressing resource limitations and ensuring long-term growth and global market competitiveness in the plantation sector. Technology K. B. Hebbar* and Ravi Bhat T HE plantation sector in India plays a vital role in supporting over 30 million small-scale growers and contributes significantly to the nation’s economy. Plantation crops, which include coconut, arecanut, tea, coffee, rubber, and oil palm, are a major source of foreign exchange and generate about 6.71% of the total value-added by the horticultural sector. Over the years, resource management, labour shortages, and environmental challenges have complicated crop cultivation. The integration of digital technologies such as IoT, AI, drones, and blockchain is revolutionizing plantation crop management. Precision agriculture enhances resource efficiency, while AI- driven tools aid in yield prediction, pest and disease detection and control. Drones help monitor crop health and facilitate precise pesticide application. Blockchain ensures transparency in supply chains, critical for export- oriented crops. Additionally, big data analytics and remote sensing offer insights into market trends, sustainability, and environmental conditions. Collaborative efforts are underway to further innovate plantation management, ensuring that the sector remains competitive, sustainable, and inclusive. Historically, as in other developing countries, the plantation crops sector in India has been promoted as a means of foreign exchange earner, and at present they provide sustenance to more than 30 million small growers who are dependent on these crops. The gross value-added by the sector annually amounts to ` 328,000 million, which is 6.71% of the total value-added by the horticultural sector. It is noteworthy that, the gross value output generated by the plantation crops during 2012 was ` 257,000 million, and there is a marked increase in this respect to the tune of 28%, over a decade. Moreover, the growth is well diversified into the non-traditional and North-Eastern states. Furthermore, plantation crops like coconut and arecanut provide adequate interspaces for intercropping of seasonal crops and thus ensure the food security to a great extent. Their total coverage is comparatively less and they are mostly confined to small holdings. The plantation crops sector in India, in recent times has been characterized by selective state intervention and the removal of tariff barriers, wherein its survival depends on international competitiveness. This sector in the country, dominated by millions of small and marginal farmers and mainly confined to the economically and ecologically vulnerable regions, plays a crucial role as far as the issue of sustainability is concerned.