 Resources must be shared among projects that often compete for the limited funding available that supports the total research enterprise. Wishes by stakeholders have to be considered as well as the aspirations of the individual researcher. In addition, a system of incentives for the researcher (and his technicians) to promote first class research within the mandate of the institute will promote their output. Advancement based on merit and achievements is a necessity also in government institutes not to be bound by regular civil service regulations. These have to be handled by independent promotion committees, including scientists from other institutions, to prevent favoritism. Agricultural R&D policies and management particularly need be dictated and conducted by scientists who are familiar with the biotic, abiotic, and socio-economic constraints of crop production in developing countries. Historical and political issues or lobbying from pressure groups should not interfere with the mission of producing more and healthier food for the poor, rural, and urban sectors of the world in a sustainable way. These challenges coupled with growing expectations from the stakeholders and society at large and increasing competition (within the system as well as outside – regional and global), and relentless technology boom necessitate newer forms of leadership as well as organization and management (O&M) reforms to ensure that our NARES continues to remain relevant and effective in dealing with such dynamic ecosystem. ICAR in its long journey so far has seen many challenges and ably addressed them and met the expectations to a large extent by forward-looking and yet realistic measures the contemporary organizational leadership. However, it has to evolve a more dynamic human resource management strategy for effective utilization of the critical scientific mass for targeted outcomes, more specific to R4D. With the growing challenges in the spheres of science & technology, fund & financing, policy & governance and an ever-dynamic societal ecosystem, where the farming community is increasingly becoming aspirational – the professional competence matrix required for leading an organization of the size of ICAR is set to turn more complex. However, given the talent pool the system has cultivated by attracting and retaining best talents in the organization gives adequate assurance that the organizational leadership is set to remain as an ever-evolving constant for the effectiveness of ICAR and NARES. Leadership in Agricultural Research in Independent India 425 References Borthakur S and Bortamuly D (2013) Perceived Utility of RAWEP in Gaining Knowledge on Communication Skill, Farm Resource Management and Socio-economic Aspects under AAU. J Acad Indus Res 2(6):382-385. DARE/ICAR Annual Report 2014-15 http://agcbapatla.in/pages.php?m=1&s=1 http://dare.nic.in/national-academy-agricultural-sciences. https://www.iari.res.in/. https://icar.org.in/files/vision-2020.