 Seaweed farming is a green technology with zero input which can act as an important mitigation measured for reducing the adverse impact of climate change and has the potential to earn carbon credits for our country. Growth of seaweed farming is constrained primarily by the absence of proper marine spatial plans. In order to address this issue, the ICAR-CMFRI, and CSIR-Central Salt and Marine Chemical Research Institute (CSIR-CSMCRI) have identified potential sites for seaweed farming in 9 coastal states and 4 Union Territories of our country. Sites identified (384) were categorized into green zones (> 1 km from CRZ-IA), amber zones (up to 1 km from CRZ-IA), and blue zones (within CRZ-IA and ESA), with 24,707 ha identified as suitable for seaweed farming, including 3,999.37 ha classified as green zones, 14,076.77 ha as amber zones, and 6,631 ha as blue zones. The seaweed production potential of these sites has been estimated as 10 million tonnes (Net weight/year). Good management practices in seaweed farming: Seaweeds are valued commercially for their cell wall polysaccharides such as agar, align, carrageenan, etc. and for bioactive metabolites, manure and fodder. They have a variety of commercial applications in food, pharmaceutical, cosmetics and mining industries. India has a seaweed production potential of 9.88 million tonnes wet weight per year while the current production stands at merely 52,107 tonnes wet weight per year. Keeping in view the immense potential in seaweed farming in the country, ICAR-CMFRI has brought out a document on good management practices to promote and support sustainable farming of seaweeds in India, while paving the way for economic security of the stakeholders, primarily women. Information and easy-to-use guide are made available on species available in the country, culture methods for native seaweed species, potential areas for seaweed farming, farming techniques (materials, methods, do’s and don’ts), farm management, post-harvest handling, economics of seaweed farming and integrated multi-trophic aquaculture (IMTA). Sea ranching of Penaeus semisulcatus to enhance wild shrimp stocks: ‘Green tiger shrimp’ or ‘Mandapam flower shrimp,’ accounts for more than 70% of the total shrimp landings in Tamil Nadu and approximately 5% of the total Indian marine penaeid landings ~8,500-9,000 tonnes/year fetching around R 320 crores annually. Penaeus semisul- catus is harvested mainly by the trawl nets operated by mechanized and non-mechanized boats. ICAR- CMFRI, Mandapam Regional Centre had developed the technology of hatchery seed production and larviculture of P. semisulcatus in late 1980s and sea ranching of hatchery produced shrimp seeds (post-larvae - PL20) was done to replenish the natural stock and to enhance the shrimp stocks in Palk Bay and Gulf of Mannar. In 2022, the Pradhan Mantri Matsya Sampada Yojana (PMMSY) of the Department of Fisheries, Govt.