 Depending upon the commodities produced by the farmer-members, the FPOs can earn revenue/ profit by bulk buying and selling of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and facilitating in custom hiring services of farm implements. They also earn income by way of providing primary processing (cleaning and grading) and/or value addition and levying auction fee from buyers for selling the produce. 5.7. Government policies promoting FPO ecosystem Myriad of constraints faced by the smallholder farmers in India stimulated the government to create enabling environment for the FPOs. The FPOs can enhance rural development, poverty reduction, productivity gains and food security through their role in facilitating effective and efficient smallholder participation in agricultural value chain. Major problems for these FPOs are to raise funds for the working capital and creating minimum basic infrastructure, business acumen among the management team, lack of understanding of markets for different produce, etc. Therefore, the government in recent years have initiated several schemes to address these issues of the FPOs. 1. Equity Grant Scheme of SFAC: Under the scheme, eligible FPOs (whose paid up capital is less than Rs. 30 lakh) receive a grant equivalent to their equity contribution of their shareholder members in the FPO subject to a maximum of Rs. 10.00 lakh per FPO in two tranches. This helps in enhancing viability and sustainability of the nascent FPOs. 2. Credit Guarantee Fund Scheme of SFAC: Under this scheme, SFAC provides credit guarantee cover to the eligible lending institutions (banks), to give collateral free credit to the eligible FPOs up to Rs. 100 lakhs. Maximum guarantee cover is restricted up to 85% of the amount. 3. Venture Capital Assistance of SFAC: The SFAC provides financial support in the form of a soft loan for the qualifying projects of the eligible FPOs. The venture capital assistance helps FPOs to make investment in setting up agribusiness project. The cost of proposed agribusiness project would have to be between Rs. 15 lakh and Rs. 500 lakhs. The SFAC also helps in developing the detailed project report (DPR) with the help of empaneled consultant. 4. Financing Schemes of NABARD: NABARD through its subsidiary NABKISAN Finance Limited provides credit assistance to the FPOs at various stages of their life. Loan products are customized to meet the requirement of FPOs without collateral/guarantee cover. The items eligible for assistance broadly include capital cost such as cost of building, machinery and equipment for processing, specially designed vehicles for transportation, etc. and/or working capital requirements for input supply, procurement, collective marketing, and other recurring costs connected with the project. Indian Agriculture after Independence 402 5. Agriculture Infrastructure Fund under Central Sector Schemes: In the year 2020, the Government of India has set up Agriculture Infrastructure Fund (AIF) worth Rs.