 To stay away from the antagonistic effect of Covid-19 flare-up and to keep the agribusiness section unaffected the legislature should give specific rules for horticulture activity, the value structure ought to be thought about and changed such that the ranchers are not under any sort of monetary misfortunes, the cultivating network alongside the workers ought to be shielded from Corona infection by keeping up social separating alongside help with managing the frenzy and mental misfortunes during this time and obviously giving the ranchers a stage for direct advertising to fulfill the need of the shoppers by home conveyance of the farming create and evade any sort of wastages in the reaped items. III. OBJECTIVES 1. To study on Challenges of the agriculture in COVID 19 2. To list out the Reaction of the Government of India. 3. To determine the Utilizing social wellbeing nets as a scaffold between wellbeing stun and financial stun. IV. METHODLOGY This research is mostly descriptive in nature. Secondary sources of data have been used for this Secondary data has been collected from different published sources like books, journals, newspapers and magazines, and web sites. V. Challenges of the agriculture in COVID 19  Interruptions in the acquirement of nourishment grains by government organizations.  Disturbances in the assortment of harvests from the homesteads by private dealers.  A lack of laborers to collect the rabi crop.  A deficiency of drivers in the transportation area.  Barricades in the development of rural products over the significant expressways.  Conclusion or restricted tasks of APMC mandis.  Shutdowns in the retail farming markets. These elements have prompted an emergency in a scope of yields as well: wheat, grapes, watermelons, bananas, muskmelon, chana, cotton, chilies, turmeric, cumin, coriander, onion, and potato.  Immediate Challenges Disregarding every one of these measures and taking into account proceeding with limitations on developments of individuals and vehicular traffic, concerns have been raised in regards to the negative ramifications of COVID19 pandemic on the homestead economy. This is the pinnacle of rabi season in India and harvests like wheat, gram, lentil, mustard, and so forth (remembering paddy for flooded tracts) are at the harvestable stage or nearly arriving at development. This is additionally when the ranch harvests come to the mandis (advertise yards) for guaranteed acquisition activities by assigned government organizations. Additionally, any serious interruption to the stockpile of transitory foods grown from the ground, dairy items, fish, and so forth having prepared to satisfy the expanding need from a swelling working class just as urban and country purchasers may make hopeless harm to all entertainers in the production network.