 These courses included 237 on crop production, 165 on horticulture, 93 in each home science and animal science, 78 on fishery, 56 on natural resource management, 35 on farm machinery and implements and 57 on agricultural extension. Besides, 504 front-line demonstrations in oilseeds, pulses and other crops and 71 on-farm trials were conducted. The extension activities include 65 farmers’ fair, 160 field days, 929 meeting with the farmers in the different villages, 221 radio programmes, 409 newspaper coverage and 183 extension literatures. Integrated Piggery Development Programme The division has identified 10 KVKs for undertaking Centrally Sponsored Scheme on Integrated Piggery Development Programme financed by the Department of Animal Husbandry and Dairying, Ministry of Agriculture. All the KVKs except two have constructed the building to initiate the programme soon. IVLP at KVK Level Fifty KVKs have initiated for implementation of IVLP during rabi 2001-2002. Two training programmes of ten days duration of these KVKs were organized to orient participants about the methodology of the programme. Intensive Cotton Development Programme (ICDP Cotton) FLD (730) on cotton were conducted during 2001 in 35 KVKs in cotton growing area funded by Centrally Sponsored Scheme of Intensive Cotton Development MISSION MODE PROJECT UNDER NATP Project on collection, documentation and validation of Indigenous Technical Knowledge (ITK), has been taken up with the objectives: (i) to document information on ITK and development of an information system, and (ii) to validate the ITK practices for determining its efficiency. Till 30 September, 2001, 1734 information on ITK have been received through voluntary disclosure on different aspects of agriculture and allied areas. Information on ITK have also been collected from published/documented articles. The project is operative through 10 zonal leaders with more than 100 potential co- operating centres across the country. Seven KVKs have been implementing Mission Mode Project on ‘Validation and Promotion of IPM Technology in selected crops in Different Agro-ecological Regions’. The objectives of the project are to validate and refine the IPM module and evaluate its impact, and to develop a mechanism for creating an interface between IPM technology generation, verification and dissemination at village level among all the stakeholders. The co- operating centres include the KVKs located at Bhatinda (Punjab) and Fatehabad (Haryana) for irrigated cotton; Dausa (Rajasthan) for groundnut; Gulbarga (Karnataka) for pigeonpea; Kota (Rajasthan) for chickpea, Ranchi (Jharkhand) for tomato and cabbage, and Rohru (Himachal Pradesh) for apple. ENERGY PARKS The division has identified 10 KVKs for undertaking scheme to set up Energy Parks sponsored by the Ministry of Non- conventional Energy Sources.