 This will also empower farmers to release grain to the mandi or market as per their financial requirements. Cottage scale pulse milling Various research organizations have developed small capacity mini dal mills, to cater the milling requirements of rural population. Mini dal mills developed by IIPR, Kanpur; PKV, Akola; CIAE, Bhopal; and CFTRI, Mysore are commercially available. These mini dal mills, with potential to improve employment and economic prospects, can be established within the production catchments. Higher milling recoveries are obtained from the cottage scale pulse milling as even dal with some husk cover and broken can also be consumed as dal. Broken part of cotyledons, can ether be consumed directly or by converting it into pulse flour. It is easy to reduce losses at small scale processing. This also makes dal available to rural people at cheaper rates by reducing to and fro transportation cost and pilferages at each handling stage. Most of the dal mills use abrasive surfaces for dehusking of grains. Despite pre-milling treatment, significant scouring of cotyledon takes place in multiple passes and the powder gets mixed with outer seed coat to produce milling byproduct. A bit compromise on husk removal will make more fibre and protein rich dal available for edible use. IIPR Mini Dal Mill uses emery roller for scratching of whole grain before pre- milling treatment. After treatment, soft dehusking and splitting is performed with vertical rubber- steel disk chakki mechanism. This prevents scouring of cotyledons and no powdering takes place. This also increases dal recovery while leaving a 5–10% husk cover on the dal surface. This unpolished dal can be consumed after cooking. It will be even better to consume whole pulses to altogether eliminating pulse milling, as most of the pulses except pigeonpea are consumed as whole grain. Processes for secondary and tertiary processed products from whole grain powder (flour) need to be developed with advantage of wholesome grains. IIPR Mini Dal Mill Value added products of pulses and milling byproduct Traditionally, in India, pulses are consumed in many different forms such as dehusked splits, flour, home recipes, snacks, sweets, combined with cereals, roasted, puffed etc. Immature pulse grains are also consumed as raw, roasted, boiling, fried, crushed, or cooked. It can be eaten as dried grain, soaked, sprouted, boiled, steamed, fried, or prepared as dal after reaching maturity. Dal or sambar is cooked from dehusked cotyledons on regular basis at every household throughout the country. Additionally, dehusked splits are converted into flour to make a huge range of Indian delicacies. Processes like as soaking, heating, roasting, puffing, extrusion, germination, fermentation, and so forth are crucial in the creation of various dishes using pulses.