 In India, Amul is a case in point. In between, we find medium-level cooperation, such as for jointly buying machines and crop planning across ecological zones. But for reaping the most benefits, we will need fully-integrated cooperation in the form of group farming. This would involve land and labour pooling and sharing costs and returns. Conceptually, smallholder cooperation for group farming could help enlarge farm size through pooling owned or leased land. This would improve economic viability and reap economies of scale. Also groups can help save on hired labour; bring in a larger pool of funds and inputs; tap into a greater diversity of skills and help farmers experiment with risk-prone higher value crops with larger payoffs. Groups can better deliver 44 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series on contracts and have higher bargaining power in markets. They would also be better positioned to take steps to adapt to climate change. For women farmers, groups can help overcome conservative social norms to give them greater mobility and autonomy in farm management. These group farms, however, have to be constituted differently from those formed when India tried to promote cooperative farming in the 1960s. Those efforts had failed. At that time, cooperatives were promoted top-down and were structurally unequal since large and small farmers were expected to form one cooperative, without recognising conflicting interests. There were no clear mechanisms for participative decision-making, conflict resolution or equal sharing of costs and benefits. In other words, the basic principles of successful cooperation were not followed. For cooperation to work, careful institutional design is needed. To begin with, cooperation must be voluntary. The groups should be small, economically homogenous and cemented by trust. We need participative decision making, checks on free riding (so that everyone turns up for work) and fair and transparent sharing of production costs and returns. In fact, today, there are many examples of successful group farming that follow these principles, both in India and Europe. In India, for example, in the early 2000s, a very different model of group farming emerged compared to the 1960s, first in Kerala and Telangana and then in other states, many adapting the SHG model. The best example of successful group farming is found in Kerala. In the early 2000s, as part of its Kudumbashree anti- poverty Mission, Kerala promoted all- women group enterprises, especially group farming. It modified the SHG model to constitute village-level neighbourhood groups as savings-cum-credit groups. Many members of these groups took up group farming. For this, small numbers of women come together to jointly cultivate leased in land, pooling labour and resources. They receive a start-up grant, technical training and access to subsidised credit via NABARD. Today, there are over 68,000 such farms across Kerala, involving more than 3 lakh women.