 It is adapted to heavy metal soils Variability in maize cob collected from north-eastern India Land races of rice in Chotanagpur, Bihar NEW ROLE... Under the new seed policy, the NBPGR has the authority to issue an import permit, phytosanitary certificate and conduct plant quarantine inspection of plant germplasm introduced into the country for research. It is also responsible for the long- Rice-bean: variation in grain term conservation of global base collections of several crops. in India = DT46 is the first Triticale variety to be released “wi S = a ee oY Pa | Oe apy Research in crop science has transformed a chronically food- deficit nation until the mid-sixties into a self-reliant nation since the beginning of the eighties with an adequate buffer stock. All major and minor cereals are a staple diet of a sizeable population, which is perpetually on the rise. In general there has been a marked increase in production of each one of them because of the development and wide adoption of genetically improved varieties and management technologies. RICE VIKRAMARYA is the world's first tungro-virus resistant rice Rice GAYATRI Rice SNEHA Rice NDRH 2, a hybrid / Hybrid rice production. The tribal (banjara) women in Andhra Pradesh are generally engaged in the activity The all-season rice crop is in cultivation in the Indo-Gangetic plains for over 7,000 years. The crop has thus undergone tremendous selection pressure, natural and manmade. The crop is grown below sea-level in Kerala, near sea-level in most rice-growing areas and at elevations of 2,500 m in Kashmir. The crop duration is between 70 days and 7 months. Of the 80,000 botanical rice varieties identified in the world, nearly 40,000 are found in India, predominantly in the north-eastern parts located on the periphery of the centre of origin of the crop. The ARC accessions used worldwide are from this region. Sensitive to day-length and temperature, with restricted adaptation to different agro-ecologies, the yield potential of these varieties varies from 0.2 to 2.0 tonnes per hectare. Scientific breeding of the rice crop through pureline selection and hybridization, that commenced in the early twenties in the country has produced the world- famous qualitatively superior GEB 24, BCP 1, T 140, NP 130; the highly prized aromatic Amritsari BASMATI 370 and Dehraduni TYPE 3; disease-pest resistant TKM 6, ESWAROKARA and PATTAMBI strains PTB 10, PTB 18, PTB 21; saline- tolerant SR 26B and those adapted to floods FR 13A, FR 43B and MADHUKAR and for the deep water ecologies, BR 14, JALMAGNA and JAISURIA. The massive indicajaponica hybridization programme of the fifties, an effort at combining the quality characters of the indica with the high-fertilizer responsiveness of the japonicarices, though proved disappointing is a milestone in our approach at improving the crop. ADT 27, the only outstanding outcome in pre-dwarf era is early maturing, non-sensitive to light, and capable of yielding 4 tonnes/na.