 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK 383 Storage Volume 2, page 224 Paddy and neem Paddy: Refer to ITK Code No. 481 Neem: Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 32 Storage of pulse grain Volume 2, page 227 Neem Refer to ITK Code No. 151 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 205 Storage of pigeonpea Volume 2, page 228 Vasambu Refer to ITK Code No. 138 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* 215 Storage of blackgram Volume 2, page 228 Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Fingermillet Bengali: marua; Gujarati: bavto, nagli; Hindi: mandua, mandal; Kannada: ragi; Malayalam: muttari; Marathi: nagli, nachoni; Sanskrit: rajika; Tamil: ragi, kelvaregu; Telugu: ragulu. Ragi, fingermillet, African millet Eleusine coracana Gaertn. Protein content varies from 6 to 11 % and a strain of white ragi contains as much as 14% protein. At 5% level of protein intake, the biological values and digestibility coefficient of ragi protein are 89% and 80% respectively. It is usually converted into flour and a variety of preparations like cakes, puddings, porridge etc are made. Ragi straw is a nutritious fodder for cattle and may be fed green or as a hay. An erect annual grass, 2-A ft high, with tillering tufted stems. Stems somewhat laterally flattened, bearing (when mature) a whorl of 2-7, but normally 4—6, digitate, straight or slightly incurved spikes; spikes about Vi in. broad and 5-6 in. long; spikelets numerous, about 70, arranged alternately on rachis; each spikelet contains 4—7 seeds, varying in diameter from 1 to 2 mm; seeds nearly globose or somewhat flattened, smooth or rugose, varying in colour from dark reddish brown to nearly white. It is considered to be of Indian or African origin and is a cultigen of the wild species, E. indica, which occurs throughout the warmer parts of the world. In Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu ragi cultivation is concentrated in Anantapur, Coimbatore, Vishakhapatnam, Nellore, Cuddappah, Chingleput, and North and South Arcot districts. Other ragi growing areas are Karnataka, Konkan, Deccan and Gujarat. In Bihar and Jharkhand, ragi is grown mainly in the upland tracts of Bhagalpur, Darbhanga, Gaya, Hazaribagh and Ranchi districts. The principal ragi areas in Orissa lie in Koraput district. The southern region of Andhra Pradesh is also important for ragi cultivation. Ragi is a crop of minor importance in north India and is grown in the sub-Himalayan tracts of Uttar Pradesh and Punjab.