 NAARM Project Team Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 86 Annexure-II National Academy of Agricultural Research Management (Indian Council of Agricultural Research) Rajendranagar, Hyderabad Research Study on “Assessment of Training Transfer and Impact of CAFT at NARS” Role of CAFT Directors in Training Transfer Part: I CAFT Profile Name and address of the CAFT centre Establishment year of CAFT centre Name and address of CAFT Director (Including phone, fax, mobile and e-mail ID No. of CAFT programmes organized No. of participants trained through CAFT Part: II Efforts of CAFT Directors to facilitate Training Transfer (Please give your response towards the following training transfer efforts made by you before, during and after CAFT training programme) Directors‟ efforts before training Yes No Regularly assess the „training needs‟ of the target group in the proposed theme Designed the course curriculum of the CAFT training as per the identified training needs The goal of CAFT training was set to facilitate the participants to transfer knowledge and skills on the theme to their work and organization The content was designed in such a way to facilitate transfer of knowledge and skills by the participants to their work and organization Pre-training evaluation was conducted to assess the level of Effectiveness and training transfer of Centre for Advanced Faculty Training (CAFT) programmes at National Agricultural Research System (NARS). Project Report. NAARM, Hyderabad (October 2012) 87 knowledge of the participants The expectations of the participants were compiled to structure the training to suit the demands of the participants Directors‟ efforts during training Yes No The CAFT programme was designed in a manner that both the knowledge as well the skills of the participants were enhanced Ensured good blend of theory and practical exposure to maximize participants‟ learning Used a variety of training methods in accordance with the learning objective and the type of subject covered. Directors‟ efforts after training Yes No Post-training evaluation was organized to assess the level of knowledge and skill gain of the participants The feedback given by participants was used for refining the subsequent programmes Encouraged participants to plan for „training transfer‟ after they return to their workplace Part: III Follow-up and Handholding Support after Training (Kindly respond about your efforts on training transfer after training was over) # Handholding by CAFT Directors Response 10. Number of projects formulated by you or other participants on the theme utilizing the network of participants of CAFT 11. Number of Professional forums (seminars/ workshops/brainstorming sessions etc.) organized by you or other participants utilizing the network of participants of CAFT 12.