 Gandhiji’s vision now has manifested as centres and Gobar Dhan schemes in Rural India (Jayalani 2018). In Harijan, Gandhiji described how to make compost manure with local labour and least capital. The practice of using cow urine in various biodynamic formulations, has great resonance with Gandhian thoughts on farming with natural inputs. The organic farming mainly enriches the soil nutrients. A Network Project on Organic Farming (NPOF) was initiated during 2004-05 by ICAR with Project Directorate for Farming Systems Research (PDFSR) as nodal institute to develop and promote a comprehensive technological package of organic farming for different crops in system mode, in different agriculture zones of the country. The current technological practices of soil health management with improving soil organic carbon (SOC) stem from the Gandhian thinking of using organic manures for enhancing soil fertility. 3.7. Cooperative Farming Gandhiji recommended co-operative farming for sharing labour, capital, and tools and equitable wage earning to all adults in the villages. He was concerned with fragmentation of land and called upon people to resort to co-operative farming, for promoting rural development. India now has the pride of having the world’s largest network of cooperatives. The cooperatives play a vital role in India’s rural economy. ICAR has played a pivotal role in institutionalizing cooperatives and also in establishing farmer producer organizations (FPOs) towards bringing farmers together. Agriculture land is fragmented, and majority of the farmers currently has marginal and small farm holdings, the Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare policies promote cooperative farming or collective farming. ICAR has a significant role in extending this Gandhian philosophy across the country, which contributes to wide-spread adoption of the practices. 3.8. Sustainable Development Goals Gandhiji has been a strong advocate of strengthening rural India and agriculture-led development, which form the bedrock of sustainable development goals (SDGs), particularly those about achieving zero hunger, ending poverty, securing education, health, employment, gender equity, climate change adaptation and mitigation. His environment-friendly lifestyle, simple, traditional systems of life amply provide the recipes for achieving the SDGs. Gandhiji’s teachings reflect to a large extent the importance of sustainability in all development fields propounded by SDGs with a focus on rural background. He mentioned that, “We should not 141 look upon the natural resources – water, air, land – as inheritance from our forefathers; rather consider them as loan given by our next generation”. Nutrition security is one of the important SDG targets to be achieved by 2030.