 Insect pests: Thrips, whitefly, maruca pod borer, spodoptera litura Redgram i. Terminal moistures stress ii. Cultivation as an intercrop under neglected management. iii. Indeterminate, tall habit of the present day cultivars making plant protection operations difficult. iv. Incidence of following is very prominent v. Diseases: Wilt and Sterility mosaic diseases vi. Insect pests: Maruca, Heliothis and pod fly Bengal gram i. Short and warm winters ii. Drought State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 8 iii. Incidence of iv. Diseases: Dry root rot, collar rot and wilt v. Insect pests: Helicoverpa pod borer, Spodoptera exigua Major constraints observed for low productivity in Livestock i. Local breeds are being reared which have low productivity. ii. Cross bred animals poorly adapt to the local conditions. iii. The farmers are not having adequate knowledge about feeding. iv. Fodder is not available round the year v. High costs on feeding & Storage of feed vi. Lack of Grazing land vii. Low availability of dry fodder Major constraints observed for low productivity in Fisheries: i. Availability of quality fish seed in required quantity and time is always limited. ii. Farmers depends on single type of culture practices (Inland sector: carp culture, Brackish water : Vennami culture) iii. Non availability of sufficient seed and artificial feed in Sea bass culture, crab culture iv. Low productivity due to poor growth rate. v. Traditional methods of fish cultivation in community and panchayat tanks resulting less yields (Average fish production 500kg/ha) vi. Lack of awareness about maintenance of pond environment and water quality management. Strategy and interventions for doubling of farmers’ income The above mentioned points give a clear insight about the gaps and accordingly the following strategy and interventions were developed Strategies for different zones The cropped areas in Andhra Pradesh are divided into six zones based on the agro-climatic conditions. The classification mainly concentrates on the range of rainfall received, type and topography of the soil. Here the strategies and interventions are given for different zones characterized into following groups: A. North Coastal Zone & High Altitude and Tribal areas (Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam districts) B. Godavari Zone (East Godavari, West Godavari) C. Krishna Zone (Krishna, Guntur, Prakasam) D. Southern Zone (Chittoor, Kadapa, Nellore) State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 9 E. Scarce Rainfall Zone (Anantapur, Kurnool) A. North Coastal Zone & High Altitude and Tribal areas (Srikakulam, Vizianagaram, Visakhapatnam districts) The North Coastal Zone & High altitude tribal areas is spread over 1.19 M ha comprising of three districts i.e., Srikakulam, Vizianagaram and Visakhapatnam covering 6592 villages in 101 mandals of 11 revenue divisions.