 Singh, Project Director (DKMA), Indian Council of Agricultural Research, Krishi Anusandhan Bhavan, Pusa, New Delhi 110 012; Lasertypeset by M/s Xpedite Computer Systems, WZ-276/F1B, Inderpuri, New Delhi-110 012 and Printed at M/s Royal Offset Printers, A-89/1, Naraina Industrial Area, Phase-I, New Delhi 110 028   

Web Url-https://icar.gov.in/  Annual Report 2020 Indian Council of Agricultural Research Department of Agricultural Research and Education Ministry of Agriculture & Farmers Welfare Government of India New Delhi Indian Council of Agricultural Research President, ICAR Society, and : Shri Narendra Singh Tomar Union Minister of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Senior Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Giriraj Singh Union Minister of Fisheries, Animal Husbandry and Dairying Vice President, ICAR Society, : Shri Kailash Choudhary Union Minister of State for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare Union Minister of State for Agriculture : Shri Parshottam Rupala Secretary, DARE and Director General, ICAR : Dr Trilochan Mohapatra Additional Secretary, DARE and Secretary, ICAR : Shri Sanjay Singh Additional Secretary and Financial Adviser, : Shri B. Pradhan (Till October, 2020) DARE/ICAR Shri G. Srinivas (from 12 October, 2020) ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 III Foreword Agriculture is the primary source of livelihood for about 58% of India’s population and contributes about 17% to Gross Value Added (GVA). The Indian food industry is poised for huge growth, increasing its contribution to world food trade every year owing to its immense potential for value addition, particularly within the food processing sector. Agricultural research and development is fundamental for planned growth and sustainable development of agriculture in the country. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) is an apex organization in the field of agricultural research at national level which plays a crucial role in promoting and accelerating agricultural research, education, extension and support in demonstrating the use of new technologies in agriculture. The year 2020 saw one of the most threatening catastrophes witnessed ever by humanity, the COVID-19 pandemic tested our capabilities almost in all the fields and agricultural sector is one of the them. Despite these difficulties, we have the responsibility to feed above 1.3 billion people of the country, and I am satisfied that our farmers and scienists worked hard during this difficult period and achieved about 3.4% growth of this sector. During this year ICAR released 270 varieties of field and horticultural crops including 18 biofortified varieties taking the total to 71 in different crops. Dedication of 17 biofortified crop varieties by the Prime Minister to the nation on the occasion of World Food Day-2020, is a testimony of commitment of Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) towards fulfilling country’s food and nutritional security.