 The index emphasizes on production/ productivity, increased price realization, decreased input costs, risk mitigation and investment related attributes as its core components. The index will help in fostering agricultural development among various states. Drivers of agricultural households’ shift: The aspirational districts of the country were delineated into two broad typologies based on K-means clustering technique using the indicators, namely irrigation intensity, cropping intensity, rural literacy, rainfall and credit availability. Two broad typologies were obtained within the districts, which would help in formulating income policy. Further, to identify various socio-economic factors influencing the probability of shifting from traditional cultivation to non-cultivation sources, two scenarios were examined through the probability of shifting from cultivation to livestock (Scenario 1) and probability of shifting from cultivation to non-farm business (Scenario II). is limited, the households often opt for non-farm business for a living. In typology 1, male headed households showed significant positive relation to shifting from traditional cultivation to non-farm business. In typology 2, possessing ration card and MGNREGA job card were negatively related with diversifying from cultivation, hence, households getting subsidized ration as well as assured labour employment were less likely to undertake non-farm business enterprises. Performance and impact assessment of agricultural extension and advisory systems: Indian extension system is characterized by its pluralistic nature, wherein public, private, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), farmer based organisations (FBOs) etc., are involved in the dissemination of advisory services, input provision and other services to the farmers. This study assessed various organizational aspects and linkages among different extension and advisory service (EAS) providers in Maharashtra. A study on 28 organizations representing public EAS providers (2 district agriculture offices, 2 state agricultural universities, 6 Krishi Vigyan Kendras), FBO (3 cooperatives, 6 farmer producers companies), NGOs (4) and private companies (5) revealed the presence of linkages among all government organizations and all EAS providers with the government organizations indicating convergence and coordination among them. However, the degree of linkages varied among existing EAS in the state suggesting that more synergy can be brought among EAS providers for effective delivery and use of EAS to the farmers. The present extension and advisory service (EAS) provision in Odisha revealed its pluralistic nature. With the existing staff strength of Village Agricultural Workers (VAWs) in Department of Agriculture, VAW to land holding ratio was 1:2011 in Odisha. In the state, 33 Krishi Vigyan Kendras are working.