 Chhaganbhai (1992) 2 Assessing rainfall through fruiting pattern of thumari To know if there will be good rainfall, one needs to see the fruiting pattern of thumari (Securinaga leucopyrus). If it bears a large number of fruits, then rainfall tends to be heavier in that season. Conversely, if fruit borne is less, then rainfall will most likely be less (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Agori (1999) 3 Prediction of season by spider When spider webs are plentiful on grasses, sticks of tomato crop and on french bean crop then it is assumed that the rainy season is over (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 4 Prediction of rainfall by cultural beliefs If first 10 to 15 days of Jeth (May-June) month are very hot, good rainfall is predicted during ensuing rainy season. This may be due to low pressure zone in North-west India that is generated due to high temperature.When grey coloured clouds descend below the hilltops they definetely cause rainfall.If khejri tree bears good fruit in a particular year good rainfall during next rainy season is predicted and vice Verma (1998) 288 METHODS OF WEATHRE FORECASTING S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference versa. If chakla belan (rolling pin and board) show moisture on them then within few days rainfall to occur.Farmers carry tambaku in bags for hooka (smoking device). When this bag shows more moisture in the tambaku then farmers predict rainfall within one or two days (Himachal Pradesh). 5 Rain prediction by cloud colour If the colour of the clouds is similar to the colour of wings of titar bird (Partiridge) i.e. grey or black grey and strong eastern winds are also blowing then rainfall is predicted. These clouds are rainbearing cumulonimbus clouds (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 6 Anticipating sowing time for mustard Mustard is sown as winter crop on a large scale in Rajasthan. The area under this crop has grown at a very fast rate in the last few years. If ants are observed going out of their burrows during noon time or soon after, it indicates the best time for sowing of mustard seeds in the field. Normally mustard is sown in the first fortnight of October just at the beginning of the winter. Farmers explain it by saying that presence of ants outside during noon time indicates a decline in the temperature because of onset of winter. Mustard is a very thermo sensitive crop (Jaipur, Rajasthan). Srisuvalal (1996a) 7 Rain prediction by sparrow A group of sparrows frolicking in the sand indicates rainfall that day or the next day. If they are playing in the water then it is believed that weather will be dry for some days (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 8 Forecasting of rainfall Farmers use certain bio-indicators like local plants, namely badli, satabari, nandal and pipal; animals like jackal and cow; insects like ant and winged termites; and also fish for predicting the time of occurrence and the distribution pattern of rainfall (Orissa).