 After the fourth day of irrigation, the land is ploughed three times and again irrigated, and green manuring is done. A wooden levelling board is used to level the main field after ploughing just before transplanting to avoid small stagnant pools. Farmers of Pokkapalayam village are using this technique since the last 20 years. Keywords: paddy cultivation, frequent ploughing, green manuring Shri K. Perisamy Kuttathootam, Pokkampalyam, Kumarmanglam, Namakkal (Tamil Nadu) 637 205 2327 Traditional field preparation forpaddy cultivation During the main field preparation the bunds are trimmed well and plastered to avoid weed growth. In the main field, the bund is plastered twice i.e. one week before transplanting and on the day of transplanting. This is in practice for 35 years. Keywords: field preparation, paddy, plastering the bund, weed control Shri M. Periasamy Kuttathotam, Pokkapalayam, Kumarmangalam, Namakkal (Tamil Nadu) 637 205 2328 Weed control in paddy by application of kochila leaves The villagers of Anadpur in Keonjhar district of Orissa have been using this practice since time immemorial. The leaves and small twigs of kochila (Struchnos nuxvomica) are applied before land preparation, and are subsequently incorporated into the soil to control weeds. Secretion of kochila twigs suppresses the weeds inside the soil. About 50-60 % weed control is achieved by this method. Keywords: weed control, kochila leaves, soil incorporation Ms Sarbani Das 1068/32, Shatabdi Nagar, Unit 8 Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003 2326 Weed control in vegetable crops by using common salt About 1 kg common salt (NaCl) is dissolved in 10 litres water and sprayed over the vegetable field to control weeds. Salt helps in destroying the roots of weeds along with the whole plant. Thus Ms Mamata Mohapatra L-294, Baramunda, Housing Board Colony, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 751 003  weed control is done successfully. Keywords: weed control, vegetable crops, common salt 2330 Weed management through interculture This practice is being used for more than 20 years. In clay soils where summer ploughing is not possible, the field is wetted and the weed seeds are allowed to germinate. Then the field is ploughed and the weeds are incorporated into the soil. This is done before sowing or transplanting of rice crop to control weeds. Keywords: ploughing, weed management Shri M. Periasamy Kuttathotan, Pokkanpalayan, Kumarmangalam, Namakkal (Tamil Nadu) 637 205 2303 Use of wahate for in-situ moisture conservation Farmers of drought-prone areas of Ahmednagar district follow some preparatory tillage operations, i.e. ploughing or harrowing in a specific manner, called wahate (C-shaped), across the slope. Due to this operation the ridges and furrows are formed and rain water is conserved partially or totally.