 To double farmers' income, need is to increase farmers access to finance, storage and market. 31 Sustainable Agriculture BIODIVERSITY GOVERNANCE GLOBAL AND NATIONAL PERSPECTIVES Vinod B. Mathur Biodiversity is the variety and variablity of different life forms viz. animals, plants, fungi and microorganisms etc. Human interference is leading to deterioration of biodiversity at both local and global levels. 75 per cent of the land area is significantly altered; 66 per cent of the ocean is experiencing increased cumulative impacts and more than 85 per cent of the wetlands have been lost. Global extinction rate is at least tens to hundreds of times higher than it had been on average over the last 10 million years. Highest extinction per centage has been in amphibians, followed by mammals, birds, reptiles and fishes. Scientists and policy-makers need to act fast— even though extinction cannot be stopped completely but at least anthropogenic rate of extinction caused by humans can be minimized. Dramatically saying our planet is collapsing because extinction rate is high (up to 1000 times faster), population of major species are declining (68 per cent decline in the last 45 years). Poverty is linked closely to nature and climate. Climate change makes poor people poorer; 10 per cent of the world’s Dr Vinod B. Mathur is the former Chairperson of the National Biodiversity Authority. He has extensive experience as an environment professional and his special interests include natural resource conservation, protected area management, natural heritage conservation, environmental and strategic impact assessment. 32 Azadi Ka Amrit Mahotsav ICAR Lecture Series population is in extreme poverty; half of it in sub-Saharan Africa. There are 17 sustainable development goals and as many as 10 sustainable development goals in particular are linked with human development and nature. If nature is not protected, it is impossible to take care of these goals. Current agricultural methods cause 70 per cent biodiversity loss and 80 per cent deforestation. Nature’s loss or damage causes loss of production base through soil depletion and decline in population of pollinators. In today’s world, all are busy developing surroundings and spoiling beautiful natural environment. There is an urgent need is to conserve the natural heritage. Half of the global gross domestic product is dependent on nature; forest sector is worth $ 583 billion/year (2014), however, each year an area of forest equivalent to the size of the UK is cut down. Fisheries worth $148 billion/year (2016) are produced but 93 per cent of the global fish stocks are harvested to the limit or beyond every year; different pollinators increase value of crops by $577 billion/year (2008) but 40 per cent pollinators species are threatened. Innovations are needed in agricultural practices to prevent loss of biodiversity.