 Observations collected from the farmers on zero-tillage sowing revealed that: (i) It reduced cost of tillage from Rs 2,000/ha to Rs 650/ha with a saving of Rs 1,350/ha; (ii) early seed germination under zero-tillage by 2–3 days; (iii) early sowing of 7– 10 days in moist field can be done when conventional tillage is not possible; (iv) there is less incidence of weed small canary grass (Phalaris minor); (v) crop remains green after 1st irrigation due to early recession of water in the field; and (vi) in conventional tillage wheat became pale yellow due to prolonged water stagnation. According to the farmers’ observations the constraints were: (i) Regular maintenance of machine is required to stop clogging of fertilizer and seed; (ii) initial training of machine operation is required which is lacking; (iii) spare parts are not available locally; and (4) tractor owners are waiting for the market demand trend this year and they will purchase the machine next year. SOIL FERTILITY AND NUTRIENT MANAGEMENT Total Carbon Stock in Indian Soils The soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil inorganic carbon (SIC) stocks in soil orders, agro-ecoregions (AERs) and agro-eco subregions (AESRs) of the entire country were estimated. Total carbon stock in upper 30 and 150 cm soil depth has been estimated as 14 and 64 Pg (1 Pg=1015 g), respectively; SOC and SIC contributing 47–71% and 29–53%, respectively. The carbon-transfer model indicates that both soil organic carbon (SOC) and soil inorganic carbon (SIC) are equally important for C transfer and potential CO2 sequestration. With the adversity of the climate there will be depletion of organic carbon and that the carbon will be sequestered as inorganic CaCO3 in soils. Organic Pools and Dynamics The rate of restoration of soil organic C with management was found to be in the The development of Kokriguda watershed was undertaken by means of interventions to make it a complete and self-contained system. Area under vegetables increased from 3 ha to 18 ha. A panoramic view of the Kokriguda watershed (top). A bumber crop of cabbage (bottom) l The long-term application of FYM alone to maize-wheat in acidic red soil at Kanke, Ranchi, has produced significantly higher yields of crops compared to 100% NPK. l The recommendations under Integrated Plant Nutrient Supply System have been made and tested on farmers fields in 3 major agro- ecoregions of the country under FAO- ICAR-IFFCO collaborative project. DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2002–2003 74 order: Vertisols> Inceptisols> Alfisols, irrespective of cropping systems. Carbon sequestration was positive under 100% NPK and 100% NPK + FYM plots due to higher biomass production and residue turn over in the soil. C-mineralization rate was maximum under NPK + FYM compared to NPK, NP and N indicating need for regular application of organic manure for sustained soil productivity.