 The part of the model that relates the measured variables (V1 to V20) with factors (behavioural and institutional factors) is termed the measurement model. The relationship among latent exogenous variables (behavioural and institutional factors) and endogenous variables (Adoption of Sustainable Agriculture Prac- tices) represents the structural model (Fig. 4). All these latent exogenous and observed variables are a combination of ordinary, binary, and continuous variables, as shown in Table 2. Our variable of interest i.e., farmers' adoption of sustainable practices, is an ordinal variable with a value ranging from 1 to 5, as mentioned in section 2.3. SEM is used to measure the inﬂuence of these latent and observed variables on the adoption of sustainable practices for farmers in the Vidarbha and Mar- athwada regions of Maharashtra. Statements used to construct latent variables are derived from previous studies (Alonge and Martin, 1995; Barnes and Thomson, 2014; Ghosh and Hassan, 2015; Zeweld et al., 2017; Waseem et al., 2020). The model is represented by the following equation: η ¼ βη þ γξ Where, if q is the number of dependent variables (DVs) and r is the number of independent variables (IVs), then η ðetaÞ is q  1 vector of DVs, β ðbetaÞ is q  q matrix of regression coefﬁcients between DVs, γ ðgammaÞ is q  r matrix of regression coefﬁcients between DV and IVs, ξ ðxiÞ is r  1 vector of IVs. 2.4.2. Evaluation of assumptions for structural equation model Several assumptions were assessed given the sensitivity of structural equation models to factors such as sample size, normality, and multi- collinearity. Additionally, it is crucial for the latent variables to demon- strate reliability and validity in a structural model (Kline, 2023). As a general guideline, Kline (2023) recommended a minimum sample size of 200 for the application of a structural equation model. Therefore, our sample, comprising 400 respondents, is deemed suitable for structural equation model. All variables were checked for multicollinearity using Variable Inﬂation Factors (VIF), and the variables having VIF > 5 were dropped from the model. Awareness about SAPs and ideas about prac- ticing SAPs on the farm were found to be correlated. Of these, we dropped awareness as the idea of practicing SAP better represents farmers’ behavioural patterns. While estimating the interactions between different variables in the SEM framework, one observable belonging to the latent exogenous variable is ﬁxed to 1 and not estimated by the model. The diagonally weighted least square (DWLS) method from the LAVAAN package (Rosseel, 2012) was used to estimate different Table 2 (continued) Latent exogenous factors S. No. Variable short name Survey question Hypothesised relationship Type of Variable Binary (Yes ¼ 1, Otherwise ¼ 0) V20 Soft loan Availing loan at less interest rate and comparatively lenient terms Positive Binary (Yes ¼ 1, Otherwise ¼ 0) Endogenous Variables S. No.