 This paste is divided into three parts and used daily after changing the old doses. Keywords: bhangariya, blain Shri Ranjay Kumar Singh S/o Shri Haribansh Singh, Sonapur, Sewta, Azamgarh (Uttar Pradesh) 276 128 2513 Use of castor or coconut oil to eradicate tick infestation Castor or coconut oil is applied liberally on the skin of body of the animal where the tick infestation is severe. The cattle is allowed to stand in the sunlight for 30 minutes. Farmers are using castor or coconut oil since last 40 years. Keywords: tick infestation, castor, coconut, oil Shri T. Murugesan S/o Shri Thangarasu, Devendrapuram, Mannargudi, Tiruvarur (Tamil Nadu) 614 014 2511 Use of palm fruit paste for treatment of tick infestation Palm fruit paste is applied on the body part affected by ticks, and it Shri P. Abdul Jabbar 23 A Patariyar Kovil,  is allowed to dry. Farmers are following this practice since last 75 years. Keywords: palm fruit, tick infestation Theru Elonkadai, Kottar Nagercoil (Tamil Nadu) 2610 Control of ticks in animal To control ticks in animals, tobacco (Nicotiana tabaccum) leaves are ground to a paste with little amount of water. The paste is applied to the body of the animal twice daily for 2-3 days. Keywords: ticks in animals, tobacco leaves Shri Alekha Parida Sanghaleaisasan, Pipili, Puri (Orissa) 2587 Use of deodar oil for cure of animals infested with ticks Deodar oil is effective against fungus, insect-pests and worms of various kinds. The oil is extracted from deodar wood by indigenous method and commonly used to get rid of the ticks from the infested animals. For this purpose, deodar oil is diluted with water and little hukka water is mixed with it. The prepared solution is externally applied to the skin of infested animals. This helps in removal of ticks. The treatment is very effective as practiced by the farmers of Dandi village in Doda district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: deodar oil, ticks infestation, hukka water Communicated by: Dr M. P. Gupta Director Extension Education, Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences and Technology, Jammu (Jammu and Kashmir) 180 004 Ref: A Survey Report from Jammu Province (J&K State) on Collection, Documentation and Validation of ITK, 2002. Sher-E-Kashmir University of Agricultural Sciences & Technology, Jammu 2551 Use of onion for controlling ticks in animals Tick sticks to the body of animals and suck and feed on the blood. Animals infested with ticks are given onion. About 1 kg onion is chaffed and fed to the animals at least once in a month. This practice is very common in controlling the ticks in animals, being practiced in Kathua (Badala area) and even in the Akhnoor block of Jammu district of Jammu and Kashmir. Keywords: onion, tick infestation Communicated by: Dr M. P.