 Moreover, wide land area for field trials, production facilities, fully equipped office spaces (Fig. 3) are also present to foster business development. Access to funding: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI assists incubatee in both initial businesses funding phase and later scaling up of business by providing guidance related to easy access to funding, assistance in preparation of business plans, proposals and pitch decks, linkages with banks, angel investors, micro financers, financial institutions and investors. Knowledge sharing: ICAR-Medi-Hub, TBI is tremendously working upon the promotion of incubated startups for wide acceptance among the consumers and overall market reach by helping the incubatee to prepare the promotional plan of business and shares the knowledge regarding all the tactics and techniques related to business promotion required in any business idea in the domain of medicinal and aromatic plants. Medi-Hub, TBI organizes online Enterprunership Orientation Program in Medicinal and Aromatic Plants (EOPMAP) every six months to extend domain knowledge to the prospective clientele. Way forward Medicinal and aromatic plants continue to play important role in ensuring the health security of the world. Medi-Hub, TBI shall help to create technology led and knowledge driven enterprises by “Converting ideas into Enlightening Agri-Businesses”. Business aspirants/ entrepreneurs having novel business idea can join Medi- Hub, TBI to accelerate business development. For further interaction, please write to: Dr Nagaraja Reddy R (Senior Scientist), ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research, Anand, Gujarat 387 310. *Corresponding author: medihubtbi@gmail.com. Fig. 3. Medi-Hub, TBI office space at ICAR-DMAPR, Anand September–October 2023 59 Shatavari: An excellent intercrop option in orchards Medicinal plants growing in forests require partial shade, moist soils rich in organic matter, high relative humidity and mild temperatures. Shatavari is grown in open land as well as under shade conditions at low altitudes. Tolerances of plants under shade condition sustain growth due to increase in photosynthetic capacity per unit of light and sugar content. Shade leaves made an efficient use of the less intense irradiation reaching up to them. P L Saran*, K A Kalariya, R P Meena, Susheel Singh and Ganga Devi Objective: To work out medicinal crops suitable for intercropping in perennial orchards. The experiment was carried out at the ICAR-Directorate of Medicinal and Aromatic Plants Research (DMAPR), Boriavi, Anand, Gujarat (India) during harvesting season of 2017-2019. A. racemosus seedlings were raised in nursery during mid-April, 2017 and seedlings at 75 days of age were transplanted at a spacing of 45 × 45 cm under different shade net intensities, i.e. 0, 25, 50, 75 and 90% with three replications, where 0% intensity refers to open field condition and 25% means between H. antidysenterica trees. Rest were raised under green shade net intensities.