 1233 Twig Contents ETHNO-BOTANY AND AGRO-BIODIVERSTTY Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2710 Use of leaf paste of kajncha (Abrus precatorius) shrub to reduce filiarial swelling (lymph angites) Volume 2, supplement I, page 175 Kajncha Refer to ITK Code No. 80 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2693 Use of garlic nodes for curing joint pain Volume 2, supplement I, page 175 Garlic Refer to ITK Code No. 1116 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2689 Use of root juice of pokasunga (Blumea lacera) for curing blood dysentery Volume 2, supplement I, page 176 Pokasunga Bengali: barasuksung, kukursunga; Hindi: jangli muli, kakionda; Kannada: gandharigidda; Marathi: bhanurda; Oriya: pokasunga; Tamil: kattumullangi, narakkarandai; Telugu: adavimullangi, kaarupogaaku. Blumea lacera DC. The leaves are cooked and eaten as vegetable. The juice is reported to possess astringent, diuretic and febrifugal properties; it is anthelmintic particularly in the ease of threadworm. Mixed with black pepper, the juice is given in bleeding piles. An astringent eyewash is prepared from the leaves. An erect herb, with silky white hair, 1 m in height, distributed almost throughout India from Punjab to Mizoram, in peninsular India, and in Andaman and Nicobar Islands, ascending up to an altitude of 1,800 m. Leaves elliptic- oblong to obovate-oblong, 3-15 cm x 1.2-2.5 cm; capitula axillary and terminal, yellow; bisexual florets, 3.0 - 4.5 mm. Female filiform; achenes brown, oblong, with white pappus. Contents TTK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK 2687 Use of onion extract for curing cholera Volume 2, supplement I, pages 176-177 Onion Refer to ITK Code No. 689 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages Botanical name Active ingredients Geographical indications 2692 Use of flower buds of lasoora tree for curing dysentery Volume 2, supplement I, page 177 Lasoora Bengali: bahubara; Gujarati: bargund; Hindi: lasora, chota lasora; Kannada: chikkachalle; Malayalam: viri, cheruviri; Marathi: shelvant; Sanskrit: bahuvaraka; Tamil: naruvili; Telugu: chinna nakkeru. Cordia dichotoma Forst. The fruit is astringent, anthelmintic, diuretic, demulcent and expectorant. It is used in diseases of the chest and urinary passage. The kernels are used in external application for ringworm. A decoction of the bark is used in dyspepsia and fevers. A small or medium-sized tree with short, usually crooked trunk 3-4 ft in girth. The fruit is 0.5-1.0 in. long, yellowish brown, pink or nearly black when ripe with a viscid, sweetish, almost transparent PU'P surrounding a central stony part.