73) along with 18.9% saving of water. Organic farming: An organic cultivation package comprising monthly application of Jeevamrutha (20 l/clump) +Azosprillum (10 g/clump) + phosphorus solubilizing bacteria (10 g/clump) + Trichoderma viride (10 g/clump) which improved the yield of cardamom (479.66 kg/ha), net return (` 385,117/ha) and BC ratio of 2.15, was standardized and recommended for cultivation of cardamom in Reserve Hill regions of Kerala. Bio-fertilizers: A package of practices comprising soil application of phosphate solubilizing bacteria (PSB @15 kg/ha) or Azospirillum (15 kg/ha) along with NPK (60:40:30 kg/ha) was standardized. It was recommended for improving the productivity of coriander with enhanced yield (47.6%), BC ratio (2.2) and net profit (` 98,750/ha). Climate analogue sites for cardamom: Based on relative yield and spread index, 236 taluks in 104 districts for small cardamom and 234 taluks in 112 districts for large cardamom were identified as climate analogues sites using CCAFS climate analogues tool considering the future climate (2050) under changing climate scenario. Medicinal and aromatic plants Shade-net intensity for satavari: Shatavari could be cultivated as an intercrop (25% shade net intensity) for fetching higher shatavarin IV content without causing significant root yield loss at 12-month harvest after transplanting at 45 cm × 45 cm spacing as compared to 6- and 18-month harvest. Performance of herbage and root yield and LC-MS/MS chromatograms of Asperagus racemosus under different shade- net intensities. Mushrooms Culture technique of mushroom Lentinus strigosus with 24% biological efficiency in 2 flushes was standardized. Cultivation of Lentinus strigosus CROP PROTECTION Biological control for biotic and abiotic stress management: Bio-prospecting rhizospheric and endophytic cyanobacterial diversity led to identification of 25 strains belonging to Plectonemasp., Phormidiumsp., Nostoc sp. and Anabaena sp. Inoculation with osmotolerant bacteria (Bacillus casamancenis MKS6 and CROP MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 71 Bacillus sp. MRD17) were found to boost drought tolerance of mustard crop at IARI. Novel methods for diagnostics and integrated pest management were developed. Protocol for detection of diseases and nematodes: A rapid loop mediated isothermal amplification based protocol was developed for detection of Karnal bunt pathogen in wheat and bakane pathogen of rice. Synthetic compounds active against Sclerotium rolfsii, Alternaria solani and root knot nematode (M. incognita) were identified. A nano emulsion with significant antifungal activity effective against both R. solani and S. rolfsii was identified. In addition, five potent antifungal halogen substituted benzylidene aryl amines were identified and synthesized for their formulation development. In nematodes, RNAi silencing was used to discover the roles of ama-1 and mad-2 genes of M.