 Applications for various fellowships/scholarships announced by ICAR, HRD, foreign governments, etc. for higher studies/research/ PhD/ Post Doctoral Research abroad were processed. Applications of the Scientists for foreign assignments in foreign governments and International organizations were processed. The vacancies notified by CGIAR organizations, other International organizations/ agencies such as ADB, Work Bank, Commonwealth Secretariat, UN, etc. were circulated. ICAR scientists (total 108 scientists) were granted permission for various fellowships/training at foreign organizations/ institutes. Permission was granted to six scientist for extension of fellowship/ training in international organizations. NOC was granted to 38 ICAR scientists to apply in different training/ fellowship in international organizations. Permission was granted to 12 ICAR scientists apply for position in different international organizations. Germplasm exchange The cases of export of germplasm were processed as per the provisions/ guidelines of the Biological Diversity Act, 2002 and the Biological Diversity Rules, 2004 also subject to guidelines/ notifications issued by Ministry of Environment and Forests, from time to time. The six Bureaus/ Institutes under ICAR system were designated by Ministry of Environment and Forests to act as repositories under the BD Act, 2002 for different categories of biological resources. Cases of germplasm exchange are processed in DARE for approval of the competent authority in consultation with the Bureaus/ Institutes/ Subject Matter Division. In the area of exchange of genetic resources, cases from concerned scientists of ICAR through authorized national bureaus on the basis of signed/agreed collaborative research projects involving ICAR, were processed in accordance with the provisions of Biodiversity Act and further guidelines notified in this regard. Approvals of competent authority in respect of 3 cases were conveyed. Annual Membership Contribution An Annual Contribution of US $ 60,000 for the years 2018–19 was paid by ICAR to Network of Aquaculture Centres in Asia-Pacific (NACA), Bangkok, Thailand. An Annual Contribution of US $ 10,000 for the years 2018– 19 was released by ICAR to Asia-Pacific Association of Agricultural Research Institutions (APAARI), Bangkok, Thailand. Annual Membership contribution to Centre for Sustainable Agricultural Mechanization, CSAM (Regional Institution of UN ESCAP) Beijing, China amounting to US $ 15,000 released for the year 2018– 2019. Annual contribution to International Seed Testing Laboratory (ISTA), Switzerland on behalf of Seed Testing Laboratory, IARI, New Delhi amounting to ` 380,613 was released for the year 2019. Indo-ASEAN Research Collaboration The 6th ASEAN India Working group on Agriculture and Forestry Meeting was held at Bankok, Thailand during 5–6 July 2019. The meeting discussed the various prospects of the implementation of the ASEAN India Work Plan 2016–20.