 Notably, the lower t1 value suggests heightened sensitivity to milder drought scenarios compared to t2 and t3. Negative t1 and t2 values indicate drought event identification even under moderate conditions, showcasing a broad scope in recognizing the extent of the drought event. The positive t3 value (around 0.5) suggests that the combining of adja- cent drought events impacts duration and intensity attribution. Notably, in the existing literature (Zhou et al., 2014; Xu et al., 2015; Wang et al., 2017; Bisht et al., 2019; Jamro et al., 2019; Zhang et al., 2020), there is a singular threshold, 0 or −0.5, which, when surpassed by the computed t1 value, may signal the need for early intervention strategies in response to potential drought conditions. Despite overall consistency, slight var- iations in thresholds across grids indicate spatial heterogeneity. This sensitivity aligns with the method’s adaptability to grid-specific factors like soil types and land cover. While the variations are subtle, their statistical significance, especially in the context of standard deviation values, cannot be overlooked. Employing statistical tests can further elucidate the practical relevance of these differences and contribute to the method’s robustness in capturing spatial heterogeneity which is beyond the scope of this particular work. The method’s sensitivity to slight variations, indicating responsiveness to subtle SM changes, con- tributes to accurate drought representation and monitoring these threshold changes over time adds insight into long term environmental shifts. The Dd, Df, Di and Dp computed using the DTRT and SSMI thresholds, are spatially represented in Fig. 16a, d, g and j. To simply put, the Dd (Fig. 16a) measures the average annual duration of the droughts; while Df (Fig. 16d) counts how often droughts occur in a year. In Fig. 16, both Dd (Fig. 16a) and Df (Fig. 16d) show similar spatial distributions implying that the areas with more frequent droughts also tend to experience longer droughts suggesting these areas are exposed to more persistent drought-inducing conditions. While the Dd and Df are distinct parameters, their spatial congruence may reflect a consistent vulnera- bility of these areas to the initiation and prolonged impact of drought conditions. This could result from a combination of factors such as local atmospheric circulations that inhibit precipitation, land surface pro- cesses enhancing the retention of heat, and possible anthropogenic in- fluences that exacerbate these natural tendencies. In Fig. 16j, the range of values for Dp indicates that the region experiences mostly moderate (−1 and −1.5) dry and very rarely severe (−1.5 to −2) dry conditions as per the DTRT outcome. The Dp does not reach the extreme dry condi- tions (≤-2). The Di (Fig. 16g) values across the region range between 1 and 1.5 and indicate that the drought conditions are moderately intense.