 Some of the important services are mentioned below :- TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 128 Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report TEC 31228:2024 Telecommunication Engineering Centre 129 Figure 3 : SmartKheti Services Drone as a Service: By using this service a farmers can hire a drone as per their requirement. They can choose the application of drone (spraying of fertilizers of pesticides etc.) add the date and area of their field on which they want to use the drone facility. Available time slots for the said dates will be shown on screen. Farmer can choose their time slot and book the drone facility. Drone Operator along with drone can be availed to get the work done in a faster manner, less exposure to harmful fumes and improve productivity. Machine as a Service: Farmers can also rent tractors, harvesters and other expensive farming machines for their farming activities Fertilizers/ Pesticides/ Seeds : Farmers can be educated on the best fertilizer / Pesticides/ Seeds suitable for the soil profile of their farm, they can buy these items online. Any subsidies provided by the Govt, will be available for the online procurement and also the location of the nearest stores providing such items will also be available. Using this facility farmer can quickly purchase required fertilizers/pesticides/seeds at reasonable and subsidized price. Revolutionizing Agriculture: The Digital Transformation of Farming Technical Report Drone Machine Dash-board ~y NEWS Market Weather News Map Crops Figure 3 : SmartKheti Services Drone as a Service: By using this service a farmers can hire a drone as per their requirement. They can choose the application of drone (spraying of fertilizers of pesticides etc.) add the date and area of their field on which they want to use the drone facility. Available time slots for the said dates will be shown on screen. Farmer can choose their time slot and book the drone facility. Drone Operator along with drone can be availed to get the work done in a faster manner, less exposure to harmful fumes and improve productivity. Machine as a Service: Farmers can also rent tractors, harvesters and other expensive farming machines for their farming activities Fertilizers/ Pesticides/ Seeds : Farmers can be educated on the best fertilizer / Pesticides/ Seeds suitable for the soil profile of their farm, they can buy these items online. Any subsidies provided by the Govt, will be available for the online procurement and also the location of the nearest stores providing such items will also be available. Using this facility farmer can quickly purchase required fertilizers/pesticides/seeds at reasonable and subsidized price.