 Isolation of tannin degrading/tolerant bacteria: Pure cultures (n=7) of tannin degrading / tolerant bacteria from mithun faecal samples were collected from Nagaland and Manipur and deposited to NIANP under VTCC Network project. Success Stories Flourishing goat husbandry The family of Mrs Dipty Deka— her husband and two children— were leading a difficult life only with the wage of her husband at Batabari, Darrang district. She enrolled herself as one of the beneficiaries of the “All India Coordinated Research Project on Goat Improvement” in the year 2009 with only two breeding does. She has increased these to 27 healthy goats in spite of selling her goats at regular interval. She sold 9 goats during this period with an income of around ` 35,000. Under the project, goats received necessary veterinary care besides elite breeding buck for healthier future progeny. The AICRP on Goat Improvement played an important role in improving their financial condition. The AICRP on Goat Improvement has played a very important role to support her in all possible ways and helped her a lot to improve the financial condition. LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 73 Equine Total mixed ration: In order to fulfil the need of farmers regarding requirement of area specific concentrate mixture in horse populated region in India, NRCE has initiated a programme for developing the concentrate mixture. The combination barley + wheat bran+groundnut cake showed highest digestibility among the concentrate mixture combinations. Pig Chelated mineral supplementation: Indigenous production of trace mineral products namely Zn-Met, Cu-Met, Co-Met and Fe-Met were standardized. Supplementation of indigenously developed chelated trace minerals in grower crossbred pigs resulted in improvement of growth by 8.22 and 22.6%; improvement in FCR by 20.9 and 25.9% and reduction in feed cost per kg weight gain by ` 20.84 and 25.96 at medium level and high level of supplementation. Poultry Utilization of alternate feed resources: Rice based distiller’s dried grains with soluble (DDGS) are available from distillery industries. It is a very good source of protein (45%), available energy (2,880 kcal ME/kg) and phosphorus (0.77%) and also contains yeast cells and nucleotides. DDGS is available at a lower price than other protein sources. The study indicated that it can be incorporated at 10% level replacing soybean meal for economical egg production, and better egg quality traits and immuno- competence in laying hens. Management of mycotoxicosis: Inclusion of Saccharomyces cerevisiae (0.1%) in ochratoxin (200 ppb) contaminated diet ameliorated the ill effects of ochratoxin and improved the welfare aspects of stressed birds. Ochratoxin A was found more toxic than aflatoxin B1. Synergistic relation existed between ochratoxin A and aflatoxin B1 in broiler chickens.