 Chander and Mukherjee (1994) 67 Control of Gundariya (Gummy diseases) in lemon Lemon trees are often affected by Gundariya disease. This results in drying of leaves and formation of ulcers on the bark of the tree alongwith discharge of a sticky fluid from the tree trunk. He also sprays one kg of tobacco powder on the plant. Within two to three days the plant starts recovering from the disease also (Mahesana, Gujarat). Patel (1997b) 68 Plant extract to cure leaf curl in chilli Leaf curl is a viral disease and characterized by curling of leaves. The crop remains stunted. Some farmers prepare extract of 'kheemp' (Leptadenia pyrotechnica) and tobacco and spray it over the chilli crop for effective control of the disease (Ajmer, Rajasthan). Kumhar (1996b) 69 Control of sooty mould in mango and sapota by spraying soap water Spraying of soap water to mango and sapota physically removes the sooty mould pathogen by washing off (Karnataka). Anonymous (1999c) 70 Chrysanthemum for control of brinjal fruit borer Farmers grow Chrysanthemum coronarium as border crop in the main field of brinjal to reduce the incidence of fruit borer. Anonymous (2000-2001j) 71 Maize as a border crop against leaf curl in chilli Farmers of Kota district believe that this disease is spread by tiny insects. They grow maize around the chilli field to prevent entry of insects. Maize leaves can cause injury to the soft bodies of insects. Sometimes maize is grown inside the chilli field or the boundary of plots for the same purpose (Kota, Rajasthan). Nagar (1996) 175 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 72 Control of caterpillars in cabbage Small green caterpillars with white fur (Heliothis armigera) are a menace to the cabbage crop. They damage the crop by consuming the leaves and fruits. Ketaki (Agave americana) and chilli are used to control caterpillars in cabbage crop. Ketaki leaves are beaten on a rock a couple of times, then packed in a plastic packet. The packet is squeezed to get the juice from the leaves. About 200 g of juice is mixed with a fistful of dry red chilli powder. A glass of water is added to this mixture. The mixture is stirred and further diluted in 14 litres of water. This is filled in a spray pump and then sprayed on the cabbage crop. One spray pump full of this liquid is prescribed for half a vigha of land. The skin of the caterpillar being more delicate, and there being the added punch of chilli powder, the liquid is quick to take effect (Bhavnagar, Gujarat). Ghori (1999) 73 Control of leaf spot in banana by tobacco leaf extract Tobacco leaves are soaked in cold water for two to three days. The supernatant solution is taken and diluted with water and then sprayed on the leaves with the help of hand sprayer for effective prevention of leaf spots the solution is sprayed early in the morning or late in the evening (Pondicherry).