 The Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI) was proposed from India for deliberations as G20 initiative. Keywords: Digitalization, Food security, MACS, Sustainable agriculture T HE Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) in G20 is instrumental in promoting joint action to put science-based solutions for achieving sustainable, resilient and profitable agri-food systems. It provides a good platform for discussion, deliberations and exchange of knowledge, science and technologies. In consonance with India’s G20 Presidency theme “One Earth, One Family, One Future”, the 12th Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) identified the theme of Sustainable Agriculture and Food Systems for Healthy People and Planet. There are four priority areas on which focused discussion took place. The areas are, Food Security and Nutrition–the role of frontiers in science and technology; Building resilience and sustainable agriculture through approaches of climate resilient agriculture and One Health; Digitalization for agricultural transformation; and Public-Private Partnerships for research and development. G20 Meeting of Agricultural Chief Scientists (MACS) was organized at Varanasi during 17–19th April 2023 by the Department of Agricultural Research and Education (DARE), Ministry of Agriculture and Farmers Welfare. About 80 delegates from G20 Member States i.e, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Canada, China, France , Germany, Indonesia, Italy, Japan, Mexico, Republic of Korea, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkiye, United Kingdom, USA and European Union; Invited Guest Countries, viz. Bangladesh, Egypt, Mauritius, Netherlands, Nigeria, Oman, Singapore, Spain UAE, Vietnam and International Organizations such as United Nations, International Monetary Fund, World Bank, World Health Organization, World Trade Organization, International Labor Organization, FSB, OECD, Chairs of Regional Organizations AU, AUDA-NEPAD, ASEAN and special invitees by India i.e. International Solar Alliance, CDR and Asian Development Bank, participated in the 3 days meeting. Senior officials from the Ministry of Agriculture and other Ministries including Ministry of External Affairs also attended the meeting. The various issues of agriculture research and development including food security and nutrition, climate smart agriculture, digital agriculture, public private partnership etc. were discussed. The “Millets and Other Ancient Grains International Research Initiative (MAHARISHI)’’ was proposed for deliberations as G20 initiative during India’s Presidency. MAHARISHI aims at advancing research collaborations and generating awareness about millets and other ancient grains on agro- biodiversity, food security and nutrition aligning with the International Year of Millets 2023 and after. In these areas, options were explored of G20 countries coming together to help sharing science-based technological and innovative solutions.