 Among ICAR’s incubators, a-IDEA of NAARM has been the pioneer as it invested in 12 agri-startups as a seed investment. It becomes easier for these agri-startups to raise funding from VCs and other investors later, if they get early investment from the incubators. Apart from this, there are several individual angel investors who look for scalable ideas to invest in at early stage in expectation of early scale up. Similarly, there are many venture capitals (VCs) firms like Omnivore Partners, Aavishkaar, Indian Agriculture Network (IAN), Accel, Ankur Capital, Kalari, Social Alpha, accel, and Beenext, which are invest in good startups at early stage in agriculture and allied sector. Recently, some global funds such as Blume, Nexus, Sequoia, Indian Agriculture after Independence 398 Tiger Global and RTP also taking interests in the sector. Overall, India’s agritech start-ups have been growing at 45% YoY. The start-ups have raised more than US$ 313 million investment. As per the NASSCOM report in 2020, this sector is expected to entice more than US$ 500 million in the next few years. 5.4. Agri-startups scenario in India Startups come with innovative ideas to fill the gaps in the agri- and food value chains. Farmers in developing countries face multiple risks on several fronts and these startups endeavor to address them using new generation IT tools such as internet of things (IoT), big data analytics, blockchain technology and so on. The three broad categories of startup innovations identified are: pre-production startups which are engaged in advisory, crop planning, soil testing, input supplies including financing; production stage startups which include advisory in agronomy, plant protection inputs, irrigation scheduling and execution, etc., and post-production stage startups which include quality analysis, processing, storage, warehousing and market linkages. In India, there are 55390 DPIIT recognized startups registered with Startup India Initiative of Government of India. Out of these, there are 2421 and 2405 registered startups in agriculture and food & beverage sector, respectively. Most of these start-ups have come up since 2016. Pre-production agri-startups: The availability and quality of inputs and proper advisory to the farmers is a serious problem affecting productivity and profitability of farmers. Several agri-startups have been offering solutions to optimise the use and enable delivery of assured quality inputs to farmers along with proper advisory. Agrostar is the largest startup in input supply to farmers and is expected to be unicorn soon. It has mobilised US$ 47 million in funding. It has been serving farmers in Gujarat, Maharashtra and Rajasthan with 400,000 active users and one million downloads of its app. EM3 operates on FaaS (Farming as a Service) platform that enables technology to reach the farmer in an efficient and affordable manner through a network of farm centres (Samadhan Kendras).