 The decentralization of the responsibility and financial management down to the project level has been done successfully with compliance with the government’s financial rules. This is a major change to innovate in project implementation and bring research closer to farmers’ needs. Tracking the targets: Research monitoring or concurrent evaluation is an important process to ensure implementation of the prioritized programmes, evaluation of the progress, and direct resources to social needs and weaker sections. A mechanism for monitoring and evaluation was adopted by ICAR and its institutes. This was later adopted by state agricultural universities. Some factors are responsible for the success of the monitoring mechanism. First, it is important how the monitoring process is taken in the system and ICAR has adopted this as a learning tool. Second, the monitoring indicators were simple, objective and verifiable. These indicators were often suggested by the researchers. The successful programs were rewarded with adequate funding and their upscaling system-wide. A computer-based information system for project monitoring was developed. Realizing Gandhiji’s Vision for Agriculture and Rural Development: Role of ICAR Innovations 10 Mahatma Gandhi’s Vision of Agriculture: Achievements of ICAR Funding for priorities and performance: ICAR has adopted competitive funding for research, seeking the participation of a larger number of institutions and researchers. Under this mode of funding, researchers compete for the dedicated funds for specific research to address high priority R&D needs. Competitive funding is a powerful mechanism to bring institutional reforms in the research system to improve relevance, cost-effectiveness and accountability of research. Often the perception of ‘good science’ may overshadow need-based research, and the competitors’ credentials may dominate the relevance of proposal in terms of clients’ needs and objectives of the fund. The competitive funding adopted by ICAR has addressed these concerns and attracted the participation of other scientific organizations, including private R&D, addressing research needs in partnership modes. This mode was later adopted by other scientific organizations in the country and developing world. Information System: Addressing specific goals, particularly the welfare of weaker sections of the society, there is a need for information on their regional concentration, needs, and resources directed for their welfare. This information is often missing. ICAR made special efforts to develop an information system for resources and their allocation for different institutes and target beneficiaries. The information on resources allocated to the institutions working in different production environments, and community-specific programs like tribal sub-plans, gender etc. are compiled in an information system and reviewed periodically.