 A major scheme on sea cage farming was operational with the financial assistance of NFDB and technical support of ICAR-CMFRI in the states of Maharashtra, Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Karnataka under the Blue Revolution Scheme of the Union Government during 2017-20. At present, cobia, pompano and seabass are the major species used, which, however, are likely to diversify with other species like grouper, snapper and seabream. ICAR-CMFRI, based on Multi-Criteria Evaluation (MCE) parameters has identified an area of 46,823 hectares of suitable sites along the Indian coastline for sea cage farming. It is estimated that a total of 0.7 million cages can be installed in the identified sites which can yield over 2.0 Mt of fish. A planned programme to commercialize sea farming will go a long way in realizing the Blue Economy potential in India. 2.2.3.2. Culture of seaweeds and integrated multi-trophic aquaculture (IMTA) Since the late 1970s, ICAR-CMFRI has been at the forefront of seaweed research. CMFRI’s Mandapam Regional Station has devised a raft, coir-rope nets/spore system for commercial-scale culture of the agar yielding red algae Gracilaria edulis and Gelidiella acerosa. During the 1980s, the station created a cottage industry method for producing agar from Gracilaria spp. and alginic acid from Sargassum spp., and showed agar and algin production to several farmers and entrepreneurs. Many small-scale agar factories in Madurai, Tamil Nadu, have sprung up as a result of these demonstrations. Seaweed farming in India is currently centered on the exotic carrageenan-producing Kappaphycus alvarezii, grown along the coastal waters of Tamil Nadu and Gujarat. Its culture was initiated in the year 2000 with technical assistance from the Central Salt and Marine Chemicals Research Institute (CSMCRI), Bhavnagar. ICAR-CMFRI has identified a potential area of 23,970 hectares and 317 sites for seaweed farming all across the coast. This includes 10,316 ha area in Gujarat, 5,048 ha in Tamil Nadu, 2,724 ha in Maharashtra besides smaller stretches in other coastal states. It is estimated that the identified potential area can produce about 10.0 Mt of seaweeds (wet weight). Integration of commercially relevant species at various trophic levels is developing as a new concept in aquaculture, in which the nutrient loads generated from fed species such as finfish or shrimp act as fertilizers or inputs for the non-fed extractive secondary species Achievements in Fisheries and Aquaculture in Independent India 191 such as molluscs or seaweeds co-cultured. This technique is being used in cage aquaculture, where finfish/shrimp and shell/herbivorous fish are mixed with seaweed cultivation in appropriate proportions. This approach can help to alleviate the adverse effects on the environment of sea cage farming while also increasing seaweed yield.