 The frequency of rejection of ejaculates was highest in rainy season followed by summer and lowest in winter indicating winter as favourable season for semen freezing. Milk progesterone level was used for monitoring reproductive status and fertility improvement of buffaloes at the NDRI, Karnal. Out of 158 estruses analyzed by milk progesterone profiles, 67(42%) were not observed. The incidence of unobserved estrous was highest in May (75%) followed by April (66.6%). The lowest incidence of unobserved estrus was recorded in December (14%). From the 69 animals for which the milk progesterone profiles have been obtained 39 buffaloes were found to be pregnant (57%) and the overall incidence of cyclic non-pregnant animals was 24%. Lipoprotein and growth hormone profiles in normal cyclic and acyclic repeat breeder buffaloes were studied at the NDRI, Karnal. Their cyclicity was confirmed by determining the plasma progesterone levels. Goat Fibroblast cells from skin of goat were successfully cultured for use in embryo cloning. Standardization of enucleation, reconstruction and electrofusion of goat oocytes was achieved. A pregnancy marker protein of placental origin of 53 kgDa was present in pregnant goat and it was absent in non-pregnant serum, thereby suggesting that it is a pregnancy-specific protein. This protein regressed after parturition. Physiological basis of thermo-adaptability of goats was studied. Goats can be reared successfully under intensive or semi-intensive system of management depending upon resource availability. Automization of semen freezing protocol for high post-thaw motility and fertility in goats is in progress. A field technique of semen preservation was developed and perfected for adoption under field conditions and is ready for commercial exploitation. Thyroid hormone levels during growth were quantified. Water, feed, fodder and blood samples from animals collected from industrially polluted areas in the per-urban locality of Bangalore, showed that lead and cadmium levels were higher than the permissible limits. The fluoride and nitrate content were within the safe levels. Sheep Reproductive efficiency in ewes/does can be improved by exteroceptive Matured goat oocytes being enucleated for somatic cell nuclear transfer LIVESTOCK AND POULTRY IMPROVEMENT AND MANAGEMENT 117 stimulation through management practices, which would eliminate use of exogenous hormones and their deleterious effects. Preliminary studies on hormonal levels were conducted in Bannur sheep. The individual variability among donor ewes in response to superovulatory drugs is one of the major constraints limiting the success of embryo transfer technology. Ovagen @5.4 mg (8 doses over 4 days) in conjunction with a single dose of PMSG (200 IU) was the best protocol developed for superovulation of ewes.