 Aggregations of impact were made at country level as well. Technological trend was found significant and estimated as 30 kg/ha/yr. Though negative yield impacts are expected in few districts of almost all states, majority districts in Rajasthan and Maharashtra may witness positive yield impacts in future due to climate change. ❑ district-specific effects were estimated as coefficients of cross-sectional dummies. Technological trend was captured as coefficient of year effect. Sensitivities of ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 128 13. Human Resource Development The Agricultural Education Division, ICAR, provides financial assistance to all the ICAR accredited AUs under the scheme “Strengthening and Development of Higher Agricultural Education in India” to strengthen, modernise and upgrade the student and faculty amenities to attract talent. The uniformity, assessment and maintenance of standards and quality of higher agricultural education through institutional mechanism has been put in place in Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) for human resource development and quality reforms. The scheme also helps in promoting holistic higher agricultural education by blending knowledge and skill through Experiential Learning Modules, there by, promoting entrepreneurial capabilities of students. The financial assistance under the scheme is provided to all the State Agricultural Universities (SAUs), Deemed Universities (ICAR-DUs), Central Agricultural Universities (CAUs) and Central Universities (CUs) with agricultural faculty duly accredited by the Council. Education and training in agriculture and allied areas can contribute towards development of quality human resources to address the myriad of challenges faced in this sector and to enable production of sufficient safe and nutritious food to meet the dietary needs of the population. This also helps to develop adoption of sustainable agricultural practices and mitigating the challenges of climate change. Despite its importance, the agricultural education and training sector faces several challenges that can limit its effectiveness. It is necessary to address the issues in agricultural education and training are crucial for ensuring that developed human resources and farmers have the knowledge and skills they need to produce high- quality crops, livestock and protect the environment, and improve their livelihoods. The effective functioning of National Agricultural Education and Research System (NARES) is because of close association with education and extension leading to contribution towards the rapid growth of agriculture in the country. The education and skills of agricultural people are significant factors in enhancing every aspect of agricultural performance. Quality assurance of higher agricultural education Accreditation of Agricultural Universities: A total of 42 new applications for accreditation of degree programmes, colleges and agricultural universities were received in the year 2023-24.