 These include centralized admissions in UG/PG and PhD to reduce academic inbreeding, infuse merit and promote national integration; award and distribution of fellowships to attract and retain the talent and promote merit, admission of foreign students for globalization of agricultural education, capacity building of faculty through summer- winter schools and Centre of Advanced Faculty Training, National Professorial Chairs and National Fellow Scheme for promotion of excellence in research, Emeritus Scientist/Emeritus Professor Schemes as a structural method of utilizing skill bank of outstanding superannuated professionals. The support for Girls’ hostels, under the scheme of Agricultural Education Division was a step towards gender mainstreaming which increased the percentage of girls in higher agricultural education to 43.6%. The upgraded, improved and expanded infrastructure also increased the overall intake of the students across AUs. The National Agricultural Higher Education Project (NAHEP) is becoming increasingly visible to have contributed towards transformation in agricultural higher education, enhancing its quality and relevance and development pursuit of the ICAR. The project implementation witnessed a desired pace during this year. By now, 58 Agricultural Universities across the country were awarded projects under different components of NAHEP. During the year, activities majorly focused on teaching and research infrastructure development, faculty development and training, networking and industry collaboration, vocational training, students job placement, own revenue generation, strengthening of teaching and research infrastructure etc. Till now, nearly 377 students and 120 faculties had undergone the international level trainings in reputed foreign universities, whereas more than 2000 national level workshops / seminars have been conducted for UG, PG and Ph.D. level students under different components. Moreover, industry visits and Skill development programs have also been organized primarily to cater the current market needs and enable the students to emerge as “Job Creators” rather than “Job Seekers”. During the period, activities undertaken are strengthening of key digital infrastructures of ICAR AU system such as ICAR – DC (Krishi Megh), e –enabled learning activities in AUs through demonstrations of virtual classrooms, implementation of Academic Management System in 52 AUs, development of AU – PIMS, progress on constitution of External Advisory Panel, technical committee meetings to catalyze the participation of state government representatives in raising the quality and relevance of agricultural higher education etc. So far, this program has benefited around 54,000 beneficiaries across agriculture and allied sector.