 In India, among millet crops, the seed replacement rate (SRR) is highest in Traditional seed supply scenario of millets in dry land ecosystems Integrated seed systems The analysis of strengths and weaknesses of local seed systems leads to the conclusion that local seed systems and the formal system are complementary, hence integrated seed systems come into play. An integrated seed system (ISS) can be defined as a system to produce near quality seeds of a specific variety by adopting some specific parameters of formal systems to improve production of quality seeds informally. In this system, the approach towards seed production of improved varieties is through farmers associations/SHGs/FPOs where the formal methods of seed production process, government procedures for seed production and certification process are not adopted completely. Sorghum seed system Sorghum seed system is very unique in the country with contrasting situations and systems. Hybrids are the cultivar choice in kharif (rainy season) sorghum, and hybrid adoption by farmers is up to 95% in states like Maharashtra though there are wide variations in adoption across the states in India. The public and private sector seed companies develop hybrids and rule the market. The seed requirement is predominantly met Farmers seed sources from formal and informal systems and seed flow from formal to informal channels. Indian Farming 78 January 2023 pearl millet (60%) followed by sorghum (30%) and small millets (25–30%). Table 1. Share of seed systems in millets Crop Area (Mha) Seed systems Seed share Sorghum Kharif - grain 2.6 Formal 95% Rabi - grain 4.8 Informal 85% Forage 3.0 Formal 90% Pearl millet Grain 7.6 Formal 70% Forage 0.9 Formal 70% Ragi (finger millet) 1.2 Informal >90% Other millets 0.7 Informal >95% Mha; Million hectares. Approaches for sustainable seed system Important issues providing way forward for sustainable seed value chain to meet the demand of improved variety seed of post-rainy sorghum in India are: Seed mission: This involves developing and implementing rain-fed agriculture seed mission with a built-in mechanism of supporting the cost of seed production for five years by the government by adopting public-private partnership with effective coordination and convergence mechanisms. Seed production: Promoting contract seed production program by advance indenting of the seed of specific improved cultivars to both public and private sector seed companies including KVKs and community-based organizations with technical support and capacity building program for production of quality seed is essential to make seed production effective. SUMMARY In order to improve production of millets and nurture a sustainable seed production system, strengthening and improving the overall efficiency of the millet seed systems is essential, including both formal and informal channels.