 Post-Harvest Technology of Vegetable Crops Importance and scope of post-harvest management of vegetables; Maturity indices and standards for different vegetables; methods of maturity determinations; biochemistry of maturity and ripening, enzymatic and textural changes, ethylene evolution and ethylene management, respiration, transpiration, regulation methods; Harvesting tools, harvesting practices for specific market requirements; post-harvest physiological and biochemical changes, disorders-chilling injury in vegetables, influence of pre-harvest practices and other factors affecting post-harvest losses, packaging house operations, commodity pretreatments- chemicals, wax coating, prepackaging and irradiation; packaging of vegetables, post-harvest, diseases and prevention from infestation, principles of transport; Methods and practices of storage-ventilated, refrigerated, MA, CA storage, hypobaric storage, pre-cooling and cold storage, zero energy cool chamber; storage disorders. Unit 9: Organic Vegetable Production Technology Importance, principles, prospective, concept and component of organic production of vegetable crops, managing soil fertility, pest, disease and weed problem in organic farming system, crop rotation in organic vegetable production. Method of enhancing soil fertility, mulching, raising green manure crops, indigenous methods of compost, panchgavya, biodynamics preparation, ITKs organic farming. Role of botanicals and bio-control agents. GAP and GMP, opportunity and challenges in organic production of vegetables. Unit 10: Hi-tech Production Technology of Vegetable Crops Importance and scope of protected cultivation of vegetable crops, principles used in protected cultivation and greenhouse technology, effect of temperature, carbon dioxide, humidity; energy management, low cost structures, training methods, engineering effects, Use of plastics, structures including low cost poly-house/green houses and other structures in vegetable production. Drip and sprinkler irrigation, fertigation, shading, hydroponics and other production technologies for enhancing productivity and off-season of high value vegetable crops like tomato, capsicum and cucumber. 40 4.2 FRUIT SCIENCE Unit 1. Tropical and Dry Land Fruit Production Commercial varieties of regional, national and international importance, ecophysiological requirements, recent trends in propagation, rootstock influence, planting systems, cropping systems, root zone and canopy management, nutrient management, water management, fertigation, role of bio-regulators, abiotic factors limiting fruit production, physiology of flowering, pollination, fruit set and development, honeybees in cross pollination, physiological disorders – causes and remedies, quality improvement by management practices; maturity indices, harvesting, grading, packing, storage and ripening techniques; industrial and export potential, Agri. Export Zones (AEZ) and industrial supports.