 Paddy transplanter as an attachment to four wheel drive tractor The VST Yanji Shakti make 8-row paddy transplanter is attached to 16.41 kW VST 4WD mini tractor. The power from tractor PTO is transmitted to drive the planting mechanism of the transplanter. The four wheels of the mini tractor are replaced with front and rear wheels of a transplanter to avoid sinkage under field condition. The height of the gear box and the top link are increased for more lifting height through hydraulic system. The effective field capacity of the machine is MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2016–17 87 The device is made collapsible for ease of transportation. Preliminary trials were successfully carried out using dead weight as well as a live bullock (535 kg). The animal was observed to be stress and anxiety free after being placed in the sling and lifted by the device to a standing position and after it was dismounted from the device. Loose straw chopper for paddy straw management for wheat sowing It consists of a comb type pick up conveyor as used in the conveyor wheat seeder for picking up and conveying the loose paddy straw into straw chopping unit. The straw chopping unit consists of chopping cylinder having serrated blades for chopping the loose straw into small pieces and uniformly spreading on the field without disturbing the standing stubbles. The working width of the machine is 1.7 m. The loose straw chopper was evaluated in combine harvested paddy field for chopping loose straw of paddy variety viz. PR 124 and Pusa Basmati 1121 at three chopping speeds of 700, 900 and 1,100 rpm for both front and rear chopping cylinders. The effective field capacity of the tractor operated loose straw chopper is 0.33 ha/ h and average fuel consumption is 4.8-5.3 l/h. The percentage of chopped straw up to 70 mm size varies from 62 to 71% at chopping speed of 1100 rpm. The cost of operation of loose straw chopper plus happy seeder is ` 3,416/ha as compared to ` 3,164/ha under conventional sown condition. weed seeds and other heavy weight smaller size impurities. The threshing efficiency, grain output capacity and losses due to shattering of the machine are 99%, 143 kg/h and 2%, respectively. Mechanization package for sugarcane single bud technology (a) Double head single bud cutting machine for sugarcane The machine has two pairs of two circular blades made of high carbon steel, rotating at 2800 rpm. A spacer is provided between the two blades, which facilitates variation in the size of single bud sett as per the requirement. Two people can operate the machine simultaneously and can cut about 3000 single buds in an hour. The machine can be operated by 0.75 kW (1 hp) electric motor which powers both the sets of cutting blades. The cost of the equipment is about ` 25,000.