 Resource management is essential in perennial plantation crops for sustainable growth where the crops remain in field for long duration. Many times, the vegetative and reproductive phases are found simultaneously. Under such circumstances, the resources should be available continuously to plants for better growth and yield of the crops. The scarcity of resources over the years makes the management more crucial. Many of the operations like harvesting and spraying are laborious and scarcity of skilled labourers has resulted in delay in operations leading to crop loss and sometimes loss of plants. Because of the placement of canopy at higher level, diagnosis of the disease and pest incidence Indian Horticulture 30 is noticed only when the plant is irrevocably affected. It is essential to diagnose any problem in the initial stage for better management of the problem. The application of digital technology which has shown the advantages of the technology for better resource management and ease of doing things, should also be adopted in plantation crops to address some of the above issues. The integration of digital technologies in agriculture, particularly in the management of plantation crops, has revolutionized the traditional farming practices. Plantation crops such as tea, coffee, rubber, oil palm, and coconut are vital to many economies, particularly in tropical and sub- tropical regions. These crops require careful management to optimize productivity, ensure sustainability, and meet market demands. Digital technologies such as IoT (Internet of Things), AI (Artificial Intelligence), drones, and big data analytics are playing an increasingly crucial role in enhancing the efficiency, productivity, and environmental sustainability of plantation crops. Precision agriculture Enhancing the resource-use efficiency is the key idea behind precision agriculture. Attempts are made to supply nutrients and water as per the need of the crops and soil to achieve higher use efficiency. The wider spacing adopted in plantation crops makes the crops amenable for the adoption of drip irrigation and fertigation technologies. The studies conducted over years in coconut and arecanut have revealed about 25 to 50% savings in water and nutrients with similar increase in the yield. The automatic irrigation systems installed in arecanut and banana gardens in parts of Tamil Nadu have not only increased yield by 50% and better quality of crop leading to higher income but also reduced the labour requirement significantly. The digital tools like sensors, satellite or drone-based images could provide real-time data, which help the farmers to adjust irrigation schedules to avoid over or under-watering, apply fertilizers and pesticides more efficiently based on specific crop needs and track the growth stages of crops to ensure timely interventions. These technologies allow farmers to target specific areas in plantations for corrective measures.