 (2022) employed the PSR model to examine the relative contribution of environment, social, and economic indicators in agri- cultural sustainability in India and found that in developing countries, farm households' decisions on livelihood transition are inﬂuenced by micro-level household and community assets. Analyzing agricultural sustainability is essential for designing and assessing rural development initiatives. However, accurately measuring agricultural sustainability is complicated since it involves so many different factors, such as social, economic, and envi- ronmental factors. The results of present study, similar with Singh et al. (2021), show that in different agro-climatic regions, social and economic assets perform well, while due to rapid decline in natural resources such as forest and groundwater, agriculture is unsus- tainable for rural population. Mishra and Sahu (2014), Narayanan and Sahu (2016), Jatav and Sanatan (2022), and Jatav (2022) re- ported the importance of ﬁnancial and natural assets, for example, access to credit sources, access to irrigation facilities, and area of land holding play decisive roles in agricultural sustainability. Likewise, the results of this study show that the farmers living in SPHR hold a lower level of natural assets, which should be given proper attention to reduce their vulnerability and improve adaptation measures to bring resilience in their farming and thereby in their livelihoods as well (Jatav and Singh, 2023). The benchmark method of normalization has an advantage over other methods, as it helps in computing an index that can be compared across the agro-climatic regions and time periods (Chand et al., 2015; Singh, 2020a). The unitary normalization method provides only the relative status of sustainability in different regions, which may alter with the change in the value of reference unit used for normalization. The government may be interested to see how the sustainability improves over time and how it compares with any other regions in the country or outside. The results of present study are most suitable for agriculture development policy, as it covers mainstream agro-climatic regions of India, which have diverse agro-ecological settings, including desert, semi-arid, wet, rainfed, and ﬂood prone. This study contributes to the literature on agricultural sustainability in three different ways. First, it provides a methodological model, which integrates environmental, economic, and social dimensions by DPSIR framework. Second, it utilizes indicators that relate to policies, including national agriculture, forest, water, land use, livestock, and fertilizer pricing policies, and policies with respect to marketing, credit, and the incentives for crop diversiﬁcation.