1 In order to develop quality human resource for meeting the requirements of 21st century and tackle the emerging challenges in agricultural sector, the Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) awards 202 Senior Research Fellowships (SRF-PGS) to the candidates who are selected through a Competitive Examination and take admission in Ph.D. degree programmes with partial course work. The Competitive examination which is conducted every year at about 16 examination centers spread across the country enables a large number of students to appear in this examination in different disciplines of Agriculture and allied sciences. Based on merit in the examination, the fellowships are awarded in different disciplines. 1.2 The examination conducted at present has two papers. Paper-I is of one and a half hour (90 minutes) duration. It is a composite paper on General Knowledge common for all subjects containing 100 objective type OMR based MCQs on General Knowledge in Agriculture and allied sciences. The weightage of this paper is 25%. The NET/Preliminary ARS examination conducted by ASRB does not have any separate paper of General Knowledge. The NET conducted jointly by UGC-CSIR too does not have a separate GK Paper, but conducts a single MCQ examination of 3 hrs duration. 1.3 Paper-II which is of two and half hours (150 minutes) duration is subject-specific, having 200 MCQs. The weightage of this paper is 50%, thereby making the total weightage for merit in the written examination to 75%. The remaining 25% weightage is for academic performance at UG and PG level. This calls for the manual screening of academic records of all the candidates who qualify the examination on the basis of a decided cut-off. The files of about 1,000 candidates for SRF(PGS)-2013 examination had to be manually screened for verifying the final UG and PG OGPA entered by the candidates in their online application form. In many cases, candidates fail to send the UG/PG PDC or Marksheet to the Council and they need to be contacted again and again to provide this vital information for computation of final result. This whole exercise results in delay in timely declaration of result. Neither ASRB nor UGC follows the practice of awarding weightage to the past academic performance of the candidates for the award of NET/Fellowship. 1.4 AIEEA-PG Examination is conducted by Education Division during morning session only (10:00 -12:30 PM), whereas Paper-I and II of SRF (PGS) examination are conducted both in the morning (10:00 – 11:30 AM) and evening sessions (2:00 – 4:30 PM). Therefore, extra manpower is being deployed for extending this examination to evening session. 1.5 A National Core Group constituted vide F. No. 13(1)/2007-EQR dated 26th July, 2007 had revisited Masters and Doctorates course curricula and syllabi in 2009. Some repetitions in the contents of SRF(PGS) syllabus were brought to the notice by some of the experts during previous examination.