 Sustainable agricultural innovations, from technology to social and policy, have the ability to change agricultural output and consumption. These advances boost farmers’ productivity and support environmental protection, social equality, and rural development. Precision agriculture technologies, biotechnology, genetic engineering, and novel financing and policy frameworks that encourage sustainability methods are examples of such developments. Types of knowledge systems in sustainable agriculture Traditional knowledge system: Indigenous and local communities world over have evolved and passed down local wisdom, practices, and belief system, termed as ‘traditional knowledge’ that help to manage Major concerns of sustainable agriculture Success story Intervention: Establishing resilience with soil moisture conservation and coping multiple stresses Availability of good quality irrigation water in many arid regions has been a major stress for the farming communities. Farmers of such regions, for instance, Rajasthan India, have evolved a number of local soil and water conservation practices which are blended with scientific knowledge and institutional resources to manage agricultural risks. For example, farmers (Hemawas village) of Pali district, Rajasthan harvest water in open- well and conserve residual soil moisture to grow wheat, mustard and muskmelon crops in order to diversify crop produce, reduce crop failure risks and maintain soil health. While cultivation of cover crops, such as muskmelon, scientific knowledge of crop variety, improved varieties of wheat (e.g. salt tolerant KRL-210) and agricultural inputs are adapted. Farmers also practice the mulching technique using organic matter to conserve soil moisture and take vegetable crops to diversify the farming system. The required resources including water, labour, cost and sometime other inputs are managed through exchange, sharing and pooling mechanism. Farmers navigate in accessing institutional resources (knowledge and inputs) and markets to fetch good produce price. Such institutional arrangements offset the drudgery, and also provide opportunity to learn, organize and plan the local soil and water management practices thus enhances social-ecological resilience. These strategic adaptations help farmers to spread the livelihood risks caused by not only the climate, but also the ecological and socioeconomic factors and thus contribute in multiple ways to sustain agroecosystem services (ecological, provisional and regulatory). Cultivation of muskmelon in conserved soil moisture (rainwater harvesting); and adopting improved mulch technique in rainfed agroecosystem Environment Society Economy Sustainable agriculture Indian Farming 45 June 2023 the agricultural challenges. Over centuries, societies changed their farming practices to their particular environmental conditions.