 This traditional knowledge of shaking of plants, neem seed kernel suspension, tobacco decoction, chilli-garlic extract, bird perches and NPV were evaluated to control the pest complex of pigeonpea in Medak district by 14 field based NGO organisations. The results showed that use of IPM technique recorded additional 500 kg/ha as compared to the non-IPM technolgies. The net profit was around Rs 11,000 per hectare as compared to non-IPM technologies (Rs 10,000 per ha) (Mahaboobnagar and Ranga Reddy, Andhra Pradesh Gulbarga and Raichur, Karnataka). Chary et al. (1999) 124 Non pesticidal management in groundnut The participatory extension trials of traditional knoweldge on pests of groundnut (deep ploughing in summer, sunflower/castor as a trap crop/ collection and destruction egg masses, spraying of chilli, garlic extract, spraying of 5% neem kernel suspension, use of NPV @ 250 LE and erection of bird perches) as NPM practice showed that the farmers successfully manage groundnut pest complex with above ecofriendly technical knowledge. The farmers save about Rs 1500 per hectare from pesticide spraying costs with NPM technologies (Andhra Pradesh). Chary et al. (1999) 125 Control of leafminer ingroundnut by flooding Farmers control leafminer in groundnut by flooding field to submerge the crop overnight and letting out water on the next morning (Tungabhadra, Karnataka). Reddy and Ghewande (1992) 69 INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 126 Asafoetida for controlling groundnut blight Blight in groundnut can be prevented if seeds are treated with asafoetida before sowing. Twenty kg of groundnut seed is soaked in the solution prepared by mixing 250 g of asafoetida in 2 litres of water. The seeds are soaked for 12 hours (Banaskantha, Gujarat). Ragnathbhai (1998) 127 Control of hairy caterpillar by using lemon and tamarind juice Hairy caterpillar is controlled by application of a mixture of 150 ml lemon juice and 150ml juice of ambli (Tamarindus indica) mixed in 15 litre water in the affected field. This solution is sufficient for 0.25 ha. It is sprayed three times for effective control (Kheda, Gujarat). Gadhavi (2000) 128 Control of insects in groundnut through trap crop Farmers use cowpea for intercropping with groundnut. Being more succulent cowpea attracts sucking pests and thereby, reduces damage of groundnut (Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu). Reddy and Ghewande (1992) 129 Use of castor shells as manure and for pest control In Junagadh district of Gujarat, groundnut is the major crop during the monsoon. But owing to erratic rainfall over the last five years, some farmers have started growing castor (Ricinus communis) instead. This has resulted in large amounts of empty shells of castor pods being produced; the pods are looked upon as wastes. Two farmers developed an organic manure using shells of caster pods, leaves of mango and castor, cow dung and other farm litter.