 The committee should also take into consideration of any Government Regulations on deciding the life cycle of common instruments and equipment (such as computers, printers and other such equipment of common in usage). Multiple purchase of same scientific equipment may be discouraged at the Institute level and/or at Divisional level in large Institutes, except for those which are frequently used. ‘This should be monitored by the SEAM committee. Purchase of any costly equipment should have recommendation of the SEAM committee and the approval of the competent authority. 13 ICAR 10. SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT POLICY Any scientific equipment/facility costing more than %40 million (such as Nanaji Deshmukh Plant Phenomics Center, ASHOKA, Gene Bank etc.) shall be called as “ICAR— Advanced National Scientific Facility”. Long term sustainability of such facility should be ensured by providing proper funds for operation and maintenance. Funds should also be made available by the institute for running the costly scientific equipment/facility to avoid dependence on project money particularly after the completion of the project. There should be a facility in-charge and if required a co-incharge who shall ensure that facility runs without any problem. Costly equipment in the lab or the “ICAR-— Advanced National Scientific Facility” should be maintained by a Senior Technical Officer. If the facility is large and if the conditions demand then more than one Senior Technical Officer shall be placed for such maintenance purposes. The SEAM committee shall decide and recommend the manpower requirements to the competent authority. There should be a technical person responsible for scientific equipment/ facility to ensure consumables, spare parts and other such materials for smooth functioning of the facility. Authorities should facilitate training of technical staff wherever possible. Any new person should be imparted with proper training on handling equipment before using it. ASHOKA Super Computing Facility (ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi) 11. EQUIPMENT POLICY cy Food Quality Testing Laboratory (ICAR-Central Institute of Post-Harvest Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana) To ensure sharing of scientific equipment with other institutes, an online information system/portal detailing the scientific equipment facilities in an Institute should be created and maintained. This online portal should facilitate easy booking and placing an indent on-line for using such facilities for a charge. All ICAR Institutes should develop a web portal for this purpose. Following are some important points to consider for creating a web portal and other aspects of sharing of scientific equipment: a. The web portal should have readily accessible and updated information related to availability and working condition of scientific equipment/ facility in the Institute.