 No Water logging near the sheds to avoid mosquitos Š Š Deworming and vaccination should be done as per schedule Š Š Provide sufficient clean drinking water. Supplement mineral mixture and vitamins daily Š Š Prepare the waste land for growing fodder Š Š It is the best time to sow and planting perennial fodder grasses like Hybrid Napier, Guinea, Para, Stylosanthes etc. Š Š If applicable a proper grazing area with identified fodder grasses is encouraged to prevent deaths due to poisoning from eating of toxic plants. Mushroom Š Š Growing of oyster mushroom especially Pleurotusdjamor (Pink oyster mushroom) indoor using paddy straw will fetch additional income to the farmers during COVID-19 pandemic and may increase nutritional status in their diet. Self-Help Group Š Š Women members in SHGs, should establish Nutrition Garden in each household to get fresh vegetables which are rich in vitamins and minerals to enhance immunity to combat COVID19. The vegetables like brinjal, capsicum, chilli, cucurbitaceous vegetable etc can be grown in kitchen garden. The members of SHGs can also make mask, hand gloves, cotton clothes for family members and neighbouring community for safety from COVID19 as well as additional income. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 103 Mizoram General Advisory Š Š As per the Extended Rain Forecast System (ERFS), rainfall, maximum and minimum temperature will be above normal (30.09%), above normal (-1.20%) and normal (0.85%) respectively. Š Š Farmers are advised to finish sowing of Maize, cowpea, rice bean, pumpkin and cucumber seeds in upland/hilly as quickly as possible. Š Š Farmers should not allow any kind of runoff water into the water storage structure/ Jalkund as it may contain rocks and muds. Plastic pipe/ bamboo stem should be used to collect water from stream or use splitted bamboo structure to filter the water before entering to the water storage structure/ Jalkund. Š Š Livestock animals should be keep inside animal shed as light to moderate rainfall with thunderstorm and lightning may prevail. Š Š As light to moderate rainfall is predicted, farmers are advised to strengthen the bunds surrounding the pond and also to increase the level of pond dykes/banks so that the fingerlings cannot escape from the pond due to increasing water level. Paddy Š Š Late onset of monsoon. Therefore, farmers are advised to do re-sowing or gap-filling with the onset of monsoon or signs of oncoming precipitation during May. Š Š Recommended Varieties for Irrigated lowland paddy: CAU R-1, CAU R-3, RCM10, RCM13, Gomati, Tripura Nirogi.\ Š Š Recommended varieties for Rainfed upland paddy: Fazu-MZ UPR 4, Maibasa- MZ UPR 25, Bhadepui- MZ UPR 23, Biroin- MZ UPR 24, Sazukthau- MZ UPR 6, Lalron- MZ 28, Idaw- MZ UPR 11, Buhban- MZ UPR 2, MZ UPR 33. Maize Š Š Farmers are advised to create drainage channel around the field especially low laying areas to drain out excess water.