 Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. 3. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. 4. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. 5. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and Whatsapp and other social networking media for effective implementation of program. Zone: B (1000-1500m) Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement 585 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strengthening of traditional water storage structure 1. Creation of additional water storage tank for particular vegetable areas of Tarikhet, Hawalbagh, Takula, Lamgara, Bhaisiyachanna, Sult and Syaldey for lean season. 2. Promotion of rain water harvesting and drip-fertigation system in vegetable clusters in this zone. 3. Creation of trenches for high percolation of water in slope/ terraces in all blocks. 4. Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip in juvenile plants in particular vegetable growing areas viz. Tarikhet, Hawalbagh, Takula, Lamgara, Bhaisiyachanna, Sult and Syaldey. 5. Popularisation of roof water harvesting system in all villages. 6. Rejuvenation and popularisation of traditional water harvesting systems (Naula) in all blocks. Adoption of cluster approach for holistic development 1. Strengthening of old fruit belt of Lamgara, Hawalbagh, Dunagiri, Dwarahat, Syaldey and Chaukhutia belts by introduction of new cultivars of stone fruits and pickling type mango (Late maturity). 2. Mass cultivation of Cinnamon plants at low hills in Sult, Syaldey, Dhauladevi and Dwarahat block. 3. Promotion of Ginger /Turmeric cultivation in shady areas in all blocks. 4. Promotion of hybrid/basmati rice particularly in irrigated areas of Takula, Chaukhutiya, Bhaisiyachanna, Syaldey, Hawalbagh and pulses, oilseeds in rainfed areas of all blocks. 5. Promotion of off season vegetable/protected cultivation (tomato, capsicum, radish, potato, onion, garlic cucumber, cole crops, leafy vegetable etc.) specially in Tarikhet, Hawalbagh, Lamgara, Deghat, some part of Takula, Dwarahat, Bhikiyasen, Sult, Bhasiachana etc). 6. Promotion of off season vegetable such as tomato, capsicum, radish, potato, onion, garlic (protected/openfield) cultivation in all blocks of this zone. 7. Organic cultivation of chilli in Tarikhet, Sult, Bhikiyasen areas. 8. Irrigated areas of Syaldey, Chaukhutia, Someswar, Seraghat, Barechina should be used for seed production of rice and wheat. 9. Fallow land development under agro-forestry in all blocks. 10. Promotion of common minimum programme technology in vegetables to reduce the cost of cultivation and quality produce. Management of wild animal problem 1. Promotion of bio fencing on trench bunds especially in vegetable belts in all blocks. 586 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2.