 He suggested that the role of Heads of Organizations like Directors and Vice-Chancellors is critical in facilitating the CPIs, administration and finance to ensure smooth implementation of the project under their organization to synthesize the unique contributions of external (non-NARS) partners to integrate them and mainstream into future R&D programmes and document what is working well and one not working in this model of research project. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/PIs of NAIP Consortia) Agenda 4: AGROPEDIA: One-stop Portal on Indian Agriculture Dr T.V. Prabhakar, IIT, Kanpur presented that Agropedia is a comprehensive, seamlessly integrated model of digital content organization in the agricultural domain. It is read write platform where anybody can submit any worthwhile information on any aspects of the crop. It aims to bring together a community practice through an ICT mediated knowledge creating and organizing platform with an effort to leverage the existing agricultural extension system. It is envisioned to be a one stop shop for all kinds of information related to Indian agriculture. The practice of crop knowledge models (KMs) has been defined and developed for the first time worldwide to create architecture for accumulating known codified and approved information about crops, with the support of FAO, Rome. The knowledge models of Chickpea, Pigeonpea, Sorghum and Groundnut are developed at ICRISAT, Wheat, Sugarcane, Litchi and Vegetable pea are developed at GBPUAT and Rice is developed at IITK. The agricultural scientists are requested to enrich this platform by their knowledge and expertise. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Agenda 5.1: ARS/NET Examination and Performance of ARS Dr M.J. Modayil, Member, ASRB, New Delhi presented some significant trends in the performance of SAUs on the basis of the data for last 18 years. Students from some of the newly established universities have shown good promise in certain subjects. How this success can be replicated in other 7 departments of the same university and how other SAUs can benefit from the example of selected bright spots, needs discussion. Further, the board is in the process of making changes in the grouping of subjects for purpose of NET examination which will serve preliminary examination for ARS. The opinion of the SAUs, which are the user organizations, would be useful in finalizing the subject grouping. (Action: ICAR Directors/VCs/SMDs) Agenda 5.2: Biodiversity management including implementation of Biodiversity Act [Could not be taken up]. Agenda 5.3: Cornell University—Sathguru Foundation Initiative Dr K. Vijayaraghavan, Cornell University, U.S.A. informed that the second batch of students from the Punjab Agriculture University would join in the program during second year. Batch size will be enhanced to 25 students (20 from TNAU and 5 from PAU).