 The seeds contain toxic glucoside pakoein, phytosterin. It is a dioceous, 6–20 feet high, occuring wild in south-India and Orissa, and occasionally grown in Indian gardens. 110 Cyperus rotundus Nut grass H-Motha The dry tubers of the plant are sold in bazars and is used in medicine, perfumery and for preparation of fragrant stics called agarbatties. The tubers are said to be dia-phoretic and astringent and in indigenous medicine. They are given for disorder of the stomach and irritation of the bowels. A pestiferous perennial weed with dark- green, glabrous culms, 0.5–2 feet high, arising from a system of underground tubers. It is found throughout India up to an elevation of 6000 feet. A- Assamese, B-Bengali, G-Gujrati, H-Hindi, Kan-Kannada, M-Marathi, Mal-Malayalam, O-Oriya, P-Punjabi, T-Tamil, Tel-Telugu 337 Sl. No. Botanical name English name Names in Indian languages Active ingredients Geographical indicators 111 Dalbergia sisso Sissoo H- Shisham B-Shisu G-Sisam Tel-Simsupa T-Sisuitti Kan-Agaru Mal- Agaru,Iruvil O-Sisu P-Tali It is mainly used for timber purposes. It’s leaves are used as a fodder. It contains 12.2-24.1% crude protein, 12.5–26.1% crude fibre. The leaves are bitter and stimulent. Decoction of leaves is used for gonorrhoea. A deciduous tree often with crooked trunk and light crown. The tree attains a height of about 100 feet. It occurs throughout the sub-Himalayan tracts from Ravi to Assam, ascending up to 5000 feet. It is extensively cultivated in Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal and Assam. 112 Datura arborea - - Scopolamine is the chief alkaloid present in the plant. Chlorogenic acid is present in the leaves. The concentration of relative proportion of scopalamine, hyoscyamine and atropine present in leaves, stem, root, flowers and seeds vary with ecological conditions. It is large shrub grown in gardens on the hills and is common in Mahabaleshwer. It bears large white flowers with musk- like odour and un-armed fruits. 113 Datura metel - - The principal alkaloids is scopolamine. The green leaves are used for dyeing of cloths. Dried leaves and flower tops are known for narcotic and anti- spasmodic properties. Dried leaves are used in medicine for the same purpose as the leaves of Beladona and Stramonium. A sub-glabrous spreading herb, sometimes becoming shrubby. It occurs through out India, and is occasionally grown in gardens. 114 Dendrocalamus strictus Solid Bamboo H- Bans B-Karail M-Bhariyel G-Nakor Vans Tel- Sadanapave- vduru T-Kalmungil Kan-Kiri bidiru Mal- Kalmungil Male bamboo is a extensively employed as raw material for paper manufacture in India. The pulp is suitable for use in the rayon industry. The paper manufactured from it are not attacked by insects. A densely tufted bamboo with a strong, elastic, thick walled, or solid gums varying in size according to locality. It is found in deciduous forest and in dry or moderately dry regions practically all over India up to 3500 feet.