 The laboratory must have at least two scientists with good training in virology preferably PhD in Virology and experience of working in virus diagnosis. Labeling of potato-tissue culture minitubers (PTCMT) PTCMT shall be supplied in sealed containers. A cloth-lined label of 12 cm × 6 cm containing following information shall be affixed on the container. The container should have printed on it the kind, variety and name of institution. A. The label shall be rubber stamped with signature, name and designation of the concerned Agency. Table 5. Standards for PTCMT produced tubers Weight of mini tuber (Minimum) 1.0 g Germination/ Sprouting 90.0% (Minimum) Physical purity 98.0% (Minimum) Varietal Purity 99.0% (Minimum) Seed-borne virus 0.01% (Minimum) Table 6. Label for breeders seed produced through PTCMT Crop Potato Label No. Variety Class of seed PTCMT Lot No. Approved laboratory and reference Date of test Germination/Sprouting (Minimum) % Producing Agency (Name and address) Indian Horticulture 58 Colour of the label shall be diagonally yellow No. 356 (IS 5-1978) and opaline green (IS No.) 275). B. PTCMT producing agency shall maintain the account of labels printed and issued. (Source: National Certification System for Tissue Culture Raised Plants, Department of Biotechnology, Ministry of Science and Technology, Government of India. Oct. 2006. www.dptmicropgation.nic.in.) Field inspection procedures • The crop should be grown in such area and period where the aphid infestation is low and technically suitable for seed production. • A crop of seed potato shall not be eligible for certification as seed if grown in land infested with wart or cyst forming nematodes, brown rot, non cyst nematodes within previous 3 years of cultivation and common scab. • A minimum isolation distance of 5 m must be kept between potato varieties grown for seed certification, 15 m between seed and table potato crop to avoid mechanical mixtures and spread of contagious viruses. • Gaps in seed crop should not be more than 10%. • A minimum of 4 inspections shall be made to verify the isolation, off type plants, diseases such as mild and severe mosaics, leaf roll, brown rot and other relevant factors specified in the seed standards. • First inspection should be made at 35 days and 45 days after planting for plains and hills respectively to verify growing condition, extent of disease infestation and off types and to confirm isolation between different varieties. • Second inspection should be made at 60-65 days after planting for early varieties and 70-75 days for late varieties or at appropriate growth stage depending upon crop duration of the varieties to verify isolation, off types, mild and severe mosaics, mycoplasmal diseases, brown rot and other relevant factors. All the off types and diseased plants must be rogued out along with tubers and destroyed before the crop is submitted for inspection.