 PGPR mitigate the impact of drought on plants through a process called induced systemic tolerance (IST), which includes: a) bacterial production of cytokinins; b) production of antioxidants and; c) degradation of the ethylene precursor ACC by bacterial ACC deaminase. Symbiotic fungi (arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi) and dual symbiotic systems (endophytic rhizospheric bacteria and symbiotic fungi) also tend to mitigate the high temperature stress in plants. Some bacterial species and strains affect plant tolerance to high temperature. SUMMARY Terminal stress is a major environmental issue limiting wheat production in the majority of wheat-growing regions across the world. The term “terminal heat stress” generally refers to a rise in temperature (>30°C) after anthesis and during grain development which impairs the process of grain filling in wheat. Rising temperatures shorten the vegetative and reproductive periods of the wheat crop, but the reproductive stage is more vulnerable than the vegetative. Numerous researchers have observed that terminal heat stress affects wheat phenology and all yield-related parameters in all major wheat- growing regions. Hence, adaptation strategies are urgently required to minimize climate change impacts. Some of the agronomic interventions to reduce impact of terminal heat stress on wheat are heat-resistant wheat cultivars, time of sowing, adoption of conservation agriculture approaches (zero tillage, happy seeder, residue retention, mulching), altering sowing dates and irrigation schedule management. The use of osmoprotectants like potassium nitrate, salicylic acid, calcium chloride, zinc and silicon also have substantial effect on various physiological and biochemical process in plants thus helps in combating the terminal heat stress in wheat crop. *Corresponding author’s email: gobinder-kpr@pau.edu To reverse the loss of environmental resources and also to reduce biodiversity loss, the Government of India has Integrated Pest Management (IPM) as part of the National Agricultural Policy. Integrated Pest Management emphasizes the growth of a health crop with the least possible disruption to agro-ecosystems and encourages natural pest control mechanisms. IPM is not new – mechanical, cultural and biological tactics were used by farmers for hundreds of years before chemical pesticides became available. Besides, there are IPM techniques that have been developed more recently and are effective in suppressing pests without adversely affecting the environment. The task of spreading the message of IPM across is tough due to poor awareness about the subject among people in line-departments as also among the farmers. The information on integrated pest management as a whole is scattered. This Handbook comprehensively deals with all the aspects of integrated pest management in field crops, horticultural crops under traditional, protected systems.