 (a) Technical ●Regular monitoring and review of technical activities envisaged in the EFC document with specific annual targets. ●Review monthly reports submitted by ZPDs for tracking the progress in mandated activities and to suggest measures for improvement. ●Organize quarterly review meetings with all Zonal Project Directors for effective review and monitoring of KVK activities. ●Conduct annual review with Zonal Project Directors and compile information on progress vis- à-vis targets set so as to use it for the preparation of Annual Report of DARE. ●Organize National Conference of KVKs every year with the main aim of having an interface between KVKs and the policy makers, administrators, technocrats, farm innovators and other stakeholders. The focus of Conference are as follows: – specific theme for each year keeping in view the changing scenario of agriculture and allied sectors, – theme-specific events to share ideas, knowledge and experiences of KVKs and innovative farmers across the country, – showcasing the latest technologies through exhibition and live demonstrations for cross- institutional learning, – recognition of best performing KVKs through national/zonal level awards, in order to motivate other KVKs to perform better, – identification of farmer led innovation for out scaling and large-scale impact, and – documentation of the proceedings and identification of implementable action points for improving the efficiency and effectiveness of KVK system. 8. Coordination, Implementation and Monitoring 100 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK ●ICAR constitute Quinquennial Review Teams (QRTs) to review the progress and assess the relevance of ongoing mandated activities keeping in view the farmers’ needs. The review will cover at least 5 representative KVKs from each Zone with the following broad Terms of Reference (ToR) – Assess the performance of KVKs with reference to mandated activities like on- farm testing, frontline demonstrations and capacity development. – Evaluate the innovative extension methodology developed and the procedures adopted by the KVKs to prioritize, monitor and assess the impact. – Assess the existing provisions for manpower and infrastructure in KVKs and ZPDs and suggest measures for organizational and administrative changes for strengthening the efficiency of KVK system. ●Review inter-divisional coordination and convergence at the ICAR headquarters for effective technological backstopping and implementation of national level thematic programmes by the KVK network. ●Suggest improvements for inter-departmental and inter-ministerial coordination and convergence at the national level. ●Examine the international exchange programmes for the benefit of KVK System.