 All officers/sections at ICAR Krishi Bhawan/KAB - I & II. Secy. (Staff Side), CJSC, ICAR, KAB-I, pusa, New Delhi. Secy. (Staff Side), HJSC, ICAR, Krishi Bhawan. Guard file/Spare copies (10). / / / EsttElACR matters No. 21011/1I2005-Estt (A) (Pt-II) Government of India Ministry of Personnel, Public Grievances and Pensions (Department of Personnel and Training) North Block, New Delhi, 14th May, 2009 OFFICE MEMORANDUM Subject:- Maintenance and preparation ofAnnual Performance Appraisal Reports- communication of all entries for fairness and transparency in public administration. The undersigned is directed to invite the attention of the MinistrieslDepartments to the existing provisions in regard to preparation and maintenance of Annual Confidential Reports which inter-alia provide that only adverse remarks should be communicated to the officer reported upon for representation, if any_ The Supreme Court has held in their judgement dated 12.5.2008 in the case of Dev Dutt vs Union of India (Civil Appeal No.7631 of 2002) that the object of writing the confidential report and makinrentries is to give an opportunity to the public servant to improve the performance. The 2" Administrative Reforms Commission in their lOth Report has also recommended that the performance appraisal system for all services be made more consultative and transparent on the lines ofthe PAR ofthe All India Services. 2. Keeping in view the above position, the matter regarding communication of entries in the ACRs in the case of civil services under the Government of India has been further reviewed and the undersigned is directed to convey the following decisions ofthe Governrnent:- (i) The existing nomenclature of the Annual Confidential Report. will be modified as Annual Performance Assessment Report (APAR). (ii) The full APAR including the overall grade and assessment of integrity shall be communicated to the concerned officer after the Report is complete with the remarks of the Reviewing Officer and the Accepting Authority wherever such system is in vogue. Where Government servant has only one supervisory level above him as in the case of personal staff attached to officers, such communication shall be made after the reporting officer has completed the performance assessment. (iii) The Section entrusted with the maintenance of APARs after its receipt shall disclose the same to the officer reported upon. (iv) The concerned officer shall be given the opportunity to make any representation against the entries and the final grading given in the Report within a period of fifteen days from the date of receipt of the entries in the APAR. The representation shall be restricted to the specific factual observations contained in the report leading to assessment of the officer in terms of attributes, work output etc.