 These interventions have enhanced income, food, and nutrition security, with farmers expressing a strong interest in adopting these technologies on a larger scale. Keywords: Farmer FIRST, Improved varieties, On-farm interventions, Pulses, Sustainable agriculture P ULSES are leguminous plants used primarily for food and animal feed across the country. These nutrient-dense seeds are packed with low-fat protein, complex carbohydrates, and high-quality dietary fibre, rich in essential vitamins and minerals, including iron, potassium, magnesium, and zinc. Compared to cereals, pulses contain 1.67 times more iron, 2.47 times more protein, 3.54 times more vitamin A, and 5.31 times more dietary folate. Pulses provide essential amino acids that complement those available in cereals. Additionally, they hold immense potential for enhancing soil fertility and resource-use efficiency, thereby boosting productivity and sustainability in agricultural systems. With lower water, carbon, and energy footprints, pulse production adds resilience to agricultural systems and contributes to combating climate change and its impacts. However, challenges such as lower yields, numerous biotic and abiotic stresses, resource-constrained agricultural conditions, fluctuating market prices, lack of secure markets, traditional cultivation methods, low mechanization, and limited value addition confront pulse production in the country. The Farmer FIRST Programme has introduced on- farm interventions designed to enhance the farmer- scientist interface for technology development and application. This initiative moves beyond simple production and productivity enhancement to focus on integrated approaches that ensure food, nutrition, and livelihood security for rural households in project villages in Fatehpur and Hamirpur districts of Uttar Pradesh. These on-farm interventions have successfully Indian Farming 74 (10): 49-50; October 2024 generated empirical evidence of enhanced farm returns through the integration of appropriate technologies. Some of these examples are documented in the following paragraphs. Improved method of sowing pigeon pea Line sowing is an improved sowing technique for pulse crops that ensures better germination, optimizes seed rate, and facilitates intercultural operations. In contrast, broadcasting is the traditional and most commonly followed method of sowing seeds. It is considered the easiest and cheapest method, requiring minimal labour investment, which contributes to its widespread adoption over other techniques. In kharif pulses, broadcasting is a prominent sowing technique in the project villages. Several efforts were made to motivate farmers to adopt line sowing techniques in pigeon pea through on- and off-farm training programs.