 ❑ Foundation course for newly recruited faculty of Agriculture Universities (FOCFAU) Foundation Course for newly recruited Agricultural Research Service Probationers (112 FOCARS) Digital initiatives: Centre for Open and Lifelong Learning in Agriculture at NAARM has been organizing Massive Open Online Courses (MOOCs) HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 141 14. Social Science Technology and policy options for sustaining pulses production: The pulse production experienced a quantum jump from 16.32 million tonnes in 2015- 16 to 23.13 million tonnes in 2016-17 and further to 25.42 million tonnes in 2017-18. Thereafter, stagnating for next three years, it increased to 27.5 million tonnes in 2022-23. The incremental production came from area expansion and yield improvements, leading to a signifcant reduction in imports. Neverthless, sustaining the momentum in pulses production requires a technological breakthrough and restriction on imports to incentivise farmers to produce more. The free trade, in the absence of the growth in total factor productvity (TFP), reduces pulses production. However, the acceleration in TFP growth even in the free trade regime leads to a continuous improvement in pulses production, and reduction in imports. The impact is much larger when acceleration in TFP growth is accompanied by an increase in import tariffs. For instance, if the TFP growth accelerates to 2% and import traiff is doubled, the pulses production is estimated to increase by 27% and the imports to decline by 68%. Although the tariff or any trade measure can be an instrument to regulate pulses imports, it is the technology that will sustain growth in pulses production. The strategy to enhance pulses production should be built around bridging the yield gap, effecting a technological breakthrough, and adopting a crop-neutral price policy. Economic valuation of ecosystem services from improved agricultural practices: Agriculture plays a multi-faceted role. Beyond its primary function of providing food, feed, fiber, and fuel, it provides ecosystem intangible services. These are non-tradable and hence, farmers remain uncompensated. A meta- analysis of some important sustainable agricultural practices, viz. direct seeded rice (DSR), no-tillage in wheat, incorporation of legumes in cropping system, organic manure, integrated nutrient management and agroforestry shows that these interventions produce several ecosystem services such as carbon sequestration, soil nutrient enhancement, biological nitrogen fixation, mitigation of greenhouse gas emissions, and water conservation. The monetary value of such non-tradable services is estimated quite large, ranging from R 3,742 to R 15,142 per ha, accounting for 34-77% of the total value of the ecosystem services, including the provisioning services.