 In Kabuli chickpea, seven and in barley eleven varieties were developed by using ICARDA germplasm and 67 spineless cactus accessions were introduced for fodder from international sources. yy Under the CIP-CPRI collaboration, eight potato varieties were developed out of which two of the processing varieties are occupying over 100,000 ha area in country. In potato, 33 germplasm accessions including six accessions rich in nutrients (Fe, Zn and Vitamin-C) were imported and established at Shimla, which are being utilized for developing indigenous nutrient rich varieties. yy Through collaboration with CIAT, the CTCRI has been able to release seven cassava varieties, such as Sree Padamnabha, Sree Reksha, Sree Pavitra, Sree Sahaya, CR-43-7, etc., which have resistance to Cassava Mosaic Virus, Sri Lankan Cassava Mosaic Virus and drought. yy ICAR collaborative approach with IWMI and ICRAF complemented and added value to ongoing research priorities of natural resource management. yy IWMI-ICAR demonstrated a new concept of water influence zone (WIZ) in Sina irrigation command, brought out weekly drought bulletins and successfully piloted index-based flood insurance. yy With World Fish, several protocols for fish breeding and aquaculture were developed. yy IFPRI played important role in the development of Indian agriculture through its policy research. Overall, partnership with these CG Centres have been enabling greater access to global elite germplasms, globally successful and replicable models, access to global methodologies for data analysis and for policy. In addition, these Centres build the capacities of Indian Scientists in frontline areas. ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 5 Annual Progress (2019-20) ICAR-CGIAR | ANNUAL REPORT 2019-20 6 7 B ioversity International focuses on the three main goals of Convention on Biodiversity viz. the conservation of biological diversity (or biodiversity); the sustainable use of its components and the fair and equitable sharing of benefits arising from genetic resources. In the light of these goals Bioversity International has been facilitating exchange of germplasm from different countries. During the year under report, two banana varieties developed from genotypes whose import was facilitated by Bioversity International were released by the Central Variety Release Committee. The first one, Kaveri Saba (ITC 0636) is a dual purpose, dwarf variety tolerant to soil moisture deficit stress (drought). It is suitable for saline sodic and marginal soils. It has extended green life of 7-8 days. More than 20,000 plants of this variety have been distributed to farmers in the last 5 years. It has spread by more than 1.00 lakh clumps in the states of TN, Kerala, Andhra Pradesh. It is highly valued for its drought tolerance and suitability to marginal production conditions. The second one Kaveri Kanya (ITC 0627) is also a dual-purpose variety that allows for staggered harvest.