 siceraria is the only cultivated monoecious species while five others viz. L. breviflora (Benth.) Roberty, L. abyssinica (Hook F.) Jeffrey, L. rufa (Gilg.) Jeffrey, L. sphaerica (Son-der) Naudin and L. guineensis (G. Don) Jeffrey are wild perennial, dioecious forms from Africa and Madagascar. Status in India In India, it occupies 157 thousand hectares of land with yearly production of 2.68 million MT (NHB, 2018-19). Commercial varieties Pusa Naveen, Pusa Santushti, Pusa Samridhi, Pusa Sandesh, Pusa Hybrid-3, Kashi Kriti, Kashi Kundal, Kashi Kiran, Arka Bahar, Kashi Bahar, Pant Luaki Sankar-1, Narendra Rashmi, Narendra Dharidar, Punjab Komal. Uses Its fruit is used as cooked vegetable and available in the market throughout the year. The fruit is used for variety of purposes, tender fruits used as vegetable and for preparing sweet dishes, raita and pickles. Pulp of bottle gourd is used for overcoming constipation, cough, night blindness and as an antidote against certain poisons. In West Bengal and some north eastern states, its leaf and tender branch are also used as vegetable. Propagation techniques Through seed; Either directly sown in the field or transplanting of seedling. Seedlings are raised in plug tray during winter (Dec-Jan) under polyhouse and transplanted in February to get early crop during summer. Crop geometry Rainy season: 3.5m × 0.6m; Summer season: 3.0m × 0.5m Climate Require hot and humid climate. The optimum growth, good fruit set and their development required the range of night and day temperature of 18-22ºC and 30-35ºC, respectively Pollination Cross pollinated through insect (honeybees, bumble bees and many other insects) due to monoecious sex form where male and female flowers are solitary and appear on different leaf axils. Economic yield Variety: 250-450q/ha; hybrid up to 550 q/ha Pests Red pumpkin beetles (Aulacophora foveicollis), Bottle gourd plume moth (Sphenarches caffer), Leaf miner (Liriomyza trifolii) Diseases Anthracnose (Colletotrichum orbiculare), Downy mildew (Pseudoperonospora cubensis), Powdery mildew (Spaerothea fuligena), Gummy stem blight (Didymella bryoniae) Nutritional value The nutrient content per 100 g edible portions of fruit are: moisture (96.10%), protein (0.20%), fat (0.10%), fibre (0.60%), carbohydrate (2.50 mg), energy (12 kcal), Ca (20 mg), phosphorous (10 mg), Fe (0.70 mg), niacin (0.20 mg) and vitamin C (0.30%).  

web link-https://icar.gov.in/ Turn to page 34 Prakash Chandra Tripathi* Some unique fruits for home garden India has a rich and varied heritage of biodiversity, encompassing a wide spectrum of habitats from tropical rainforests to alpine vegetation and from temperate forests to coastal wetlands. Several fruit plant species have originated in Indian subcontinent. Apart from indigenous fruits, several fruits were introduced in India from South America, Africa, Europe, South East Asian countries during last four centuries.