 Study area of semi-arid states in India According to the Central Water Commission (CWC) report, the ma­ jority of drought-prone districts are distributed across 14 states in India. However, the region’s most susceptible to drought are concentrated in semi-arid states such as Rajasthan, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Maha­ rashtra, and Tamil Nadu. These states experience uneven and erratic rainfall, leading to frequent water scarcity and resulting in dry farm­ lands that significantly impact agricultural production. An area of 123.4 million hectares, equivalent to 37.6%, is spread across 175 districts in the country’s geographical locations (Todmal, 2019; Pankaj et al., 2020). Therefore, improving the sustainability of agriculture in semi- arid regions requires substantial measures aimed at building long-term resilience. One such solution is the adoption of micro-irrigation tech­ nologies, which can effectively reduce water losses (Mohan et al., 2022). This paper focuses on all ten semi-arid states, including Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh, and Haryana, in addition to the five states mentioned earlier. The semi-arid states under consideration in our study comprise approximately 30% of the country’s total geographical area, which is 3.28 million square km (Table 2). Maharashtra, Karna­ taka, and Andhra Pradesh constitute a significant portion, accounting for about 14% of the total area. 2.2. Data collection and sampling procedure The study utilized both secondary farming household datasets and primary focal group interviews. However, the majority of the farming household data was sourced from a nationally representative survey conducted in 2011–12 as part of the India Human Development Report (IHDP-II) by the University of Maryland, USA, and the National Council of Applied Economic Research (NCAER), New Delhi (Desai et al., 2018). This survey provided comprehensive information on various aspects such as socio-economic status, household structure, employment, income, landholding size, farming practices, government subsidies, cultural capital, and details about the head of the household. The selected farming households included in the study were exclusively from villages where at least one of the micro-irrigation technologies, either drip or sprinkler, or both, were identified as being adopted. The non- adopter or control group comprised farming households from the same villages that did not practice these micro-irrigation technologies, as outlined in Table 3. Only those farming households that reported their land holdings and engagement in farm activities were considered for inclusion in the study. The focus group discussions (FGD) were conducted in three different Mandals in the East Godavari district of Andhra Pradesh, India. Each FGD consisted of 4–8 participants, including both men and women.