 Alternatively, the productivity of these soils Se te >< Intercropping of oat green fodder with potato Indian Farming could be raised through intercropping of short duration forages in long duration rainy season food crops such as sorghum and pigeon pea, which are widely spaced and offer good scope for accommodating legume forages in inter-row space in additive series. This work has started from farmer of Dhoraiya block of Banka district in 0.5 acre potato field and extended to more than 50 acre potato field of Banka district. Use of waste land / bund of ponds for perennial forage production The intervention taken up by the KVK _ banka involving one acre pond having a perimeter of 1163 ft. Plantation of Hybrid Napier of av. 233 slip/acre pond at distance of 5 ft were done which resulted in av. yield of 102 q/year and when intercropped with rice bean, yield increased to 139 q/year. Water canal in villages, water channel cum drainage system, irrigation channel and waste land around dairy farm were promoted to be used for fodder production by the farmers. In last five years, fish production have been fast growing in Banka district by more than 200 new fish ponds constructed with the help of fishery department and also farmers self-investment. Around 23 ponds were integrated with dairy farming with cultivation of green fodder at bund of ponds. Use of top part of harvesting maize crop It is observed that, among the maize growing countries, India ranks 4'* in area and 7‘ in production, representing around 4% of the world maize area and 2% of total production. During 2018-19 in India, the maize area has reached to 9.2 million ha (DACNET 2020). The average productivity of maize was 3032k¢/ha March 2024 3/ Indian Farming 38 March 2024 and annual production (grain yield) was 28.72 million tonnes (Agriculture Statistics at a glance 2018). As per the intervention of the KVK, farmers were apprised to use top part of maize as green fodder for their livestock. For this, they are advised to harvest the top part of green maize straw, 15-20 days before harvesting of grains. Dairy farmers were also suggested to preserve this fodder by making silage for scarcity period. The green fodder yield was 34.59 q/ha from maize grain producing crop. Relay cropping of green fodder oat and berseem with paddy Traditionally mono-cropped in rainy season as the Hybrid Napier on bund of pond Water channel cum drainage Guinea grass (Megathyrsus maximus) Around dairy farm (Hybrid Napier) Irrigation channel Paragrass (Brachiaria mutica) ~~ Hybrid Napier on bund of po Around dairy farm (Hybrid Napier) and annual production (grain yield) was 28.72 million tonnes (Agriculture Statistics at a glance 2018). As per the intervention of the KVK, farmers were apprised to use top part of maize as green fodder for their livestock. For this, they are advised to harvest the top part of green maize straw, 15-20 days before harvesting of grains.