 21% higher than control) and recommended for Eastern Himalayan, and Western Himalayan zones. Mushrooms Production technology of Macrocybe gigantea, (Arka MG-1): An edible mushroom, suitable for tropical regions having temperature range of 30-40°C was standardized. It is nutritious with good levels of protein, fibre, potassium, calcium and iron. Production technology of Pleurotus tuber-regium, (Arka PT-1): An edible mushroom suitable for tropical region with a temperature range of 30-35°C was standardized. It is highly nutritious having high levels of protein (40.34%), fibre (16.49%), iron (9.96 mg/100 g) and zinc (9.13 mg/100 g). Development of cultivation technologies of Panus lecometi: Attempts were made for cultivation of this mushroom under controlled conditions using the sawdust- based substrate. The specimen was characterized by its purplish fruiting body having coarse, rigid dense hairs on cap and pubescent stipe and abundant metuloids. evidenced by visible growth of Morchella mycelium in the beds, nutrition pouches were kept in the beds to supply nutrition and to induce reproductive stages of Morchella importuna strain ANI1, imperfect stage of Morchella importuna strain ANI1 which is also known as powdery growth. Asexual stage of the fungus produced septate hyphae and highly branched conidiophores. A single conidium was found on a phialide. Conidia noticed small and round in shape. The ascomata was obtained with ladder-like pattern of pits and ridges on the surface of pileus, 4–15 cm high and conical or occasionally egg-shaped. On the pileus surface, vertical and horizontal ridges made a laddered appearance. The ridges were pale to dark gray when young, but dark grayish brown to nearly black at maturity. Caping hollow with whitish flesh. The ascospores were elliptical and smooth whereas asci cylindrical, hyaline (translucent) and eight-spored. Panus lecometi Induction of fruiting in Morchella importuna strain ANI1: In third successive trial on induction of ascomata of Morchella importuna strain ANI1, 350 ascomata were induced in 2022. Heterothallism kind of sexual reproductive mode was established in ANI1. During ascomata induction trial, ANI1 took 120 days to reach the stage of maturity in the growing beds. Upon complete colonization of growing beds as Low Cost Technology for the Paddy Straw Mushroom Cultivation Paddy straw mushroom was cultivated in tunnel pasteurized paddy straw substrate in plastic crates (PC) and polyethylene (PE) bag, and bed along with room pasteurized cotton waste substrate. The biological efficiency (BE) was analyzed in the tunnel pasteurized paddy straw substrate. The BE of the room pasteurized cotton waste substrate was used as a control. In PE bag, BE was found higher then PC, bed system and room pasteurized cotton waste substrate.