 Narendra Singh Tomar Minister of Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare, Rural Development and Panchayati Raj Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi  v Message The country is celebrating the 150th birth anniversary of Mahatma Gandhi, ‘Father of the Nation’. He was a leader, philosopher, writer, and social reformer who worked with the masses for their welfare. His simple living and high thinking inspired millions of people in India and abroad, including several leaders in the world. Gandhiji devoted his life to the upliftment of the poor, untouchables and the weakest man in the society. Truthfulness and non-violence were the cornerstones of his philosophy and approach to life. He wanted the village to be the central place in the national economic development with strong social, economic and spiritual values. He firmly believed that India lives and will live in her villages, not in towns and the path of development, therefore, goes through rural development. Indian Council of Agricultural Research (ICAR) has played a pioneering role in ushering the Green Revolution in the country and subsequent developments in other areas of agriculture. The recent experience of COVID-19 has shown that Indian agriculture is resilient to external shocks and can contribute to the inclusiveness of the economy. This is possible through the application of science and technology in agriculture. The Council has played a major role in promoting excellence in education and building human capital for agriculture, as envisaged by Gandhiji. The celebration of the 150th birth anniversary of Gandhiji is the occasion to reaffirm our faith in this development approach and apply to address the challenges in the years to come. The volume on hands is an example of the achievements of ICAR and its approach in addressing the developments like climate resilience, conservation of resources, and inclusiveness. The publication has spelled out the contributions of the Council in improving agricultural productivity, ensuring food, nutritional and livelihood security, protecting the environment, and promoting small agri-enterprises. These contributions also contribute to the development objective of the government of Atma Nirbhar Bharat. I compliment the Council for bringing out this publication to show its contributions to realize the vision of Gandhiji. I am sure the readers shall find the publication useful and take the task forward for the betterment of the society. Kailash Choudhary Minister of State, Agriculture and Farmers’ Welfare Government of India Krishi Bhawan, New Delhi  vii foreword Father of the Nation, Mahatma Gandhi led the freedom struggle against the British empire and emerged as a global leader of masses, disadvantageous and poor people. He has shown the way of social, economic and political transformation with small steps to serve the rural poor.