 At knee high stage (about 35 days after germination) the crop plants should be earthed up followed by light hand weeding. The second earthing up should be done at 60 days after germination of crop. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 141 First irrigation is to be applied 3-4 weak after seedling emergence, subsequently at 4- 5 weeks till March and thereafter at 1-2 weeks’ interval. Maize stem borer control by application of Endosulfan 35EC @250 ml and Monocrotophos 36 WSC @275 ml/ha in 125 litres of water by starting spray 2-3 weeks after sowing. Application of Neem based pesticides like Margosa @2 ml/ltrs of water are found to be benefecial. Army worm and Silk cutter control by spray Sevin (Carbaryl) 50 WP@ 250g in 125 ltrs of water and control of leaf blight by spraying of Indofil M45 @ 500g in 250 ltr of water/ha. at 10 days interval. Pre-emergence application of Atrazine @ 1 Kg a.i/ha is recommended for weed control. Maize is ready for harvesting even when the stacks and leaves are somewhat green, but the husk cover has dried and turned brown. Shell Maize when the moisture content ranges between 15-20%. Conventional harvestor combines can be used for threshing Maize with husk to save labour involved in dehusking. The Maize ears should preferably be dried for 3-4 days after harvesting to improve grain recoveries and reduce breakage losses during shelling. Bengal Gram (Chickpea) Gram is a winter season crop but severe cold and frost are injurious to it. Temperature, day length and availability of moisture are the three major abiotic factors affecting flowering. Chickpea is sensitive to high (>35°C) as well as low (<15 degree C) temperatures at the reproductive stage. Both extremes of temperatures lead to flower drop and reduced pod set. Chickpeas with colored and thick seed coat are called desi type. The common seed colors include various shades and combinations of brown, yellow, green and black. The kabuli type chickpeas are characterized by white or beige- colored seed with ram’s head shape, thin seed coat, smooth seed ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 142 surface, white flowers, and lack of anthocyanin pigmentation on the stem. Chickpea grows best on well-drained, light to medium textured soils. Saline, alkaline, or waterlogged soils are not suitable for its cultivation. The sowing is done in the month of October or November. Late sowing (December-January) should be avoided as the late-sown crop may experience moisture stress and high temperatures at the critical stage of pod-filling, leading to reduced yield and seed quality. Chickpea should be sown by the pora method in rows 30 cm. The seed should be placed 10-12.5 cm deep, because the shallow-sown crop is more liable to be damaged by wilt. The optimum seed rate for desi and kabuli gram are 15-18 kg and 37 kg per acre, respectively. It differs from variety to variety, depending on seed size.