 The strategy to enhance pulse production should be built around bridging the yield gap, effecting a technological breakthrough, and adopting a crop- neutral price policy. A meta-analysis of some important sustainable agricultural practices showed that these interventions produce several ecosystem services and the monetary value of such non-tradable services ranges from 3,742 to 15,142 per ha, accounting for 34-77% of the total value of the ecosystem services. An Artificial Intelligence (AI) based android mobile application, called AI-DISC (Artificial Intelligence Based Disease Identification for Crops) has been developed that can automatically identify plant diseases with visible symptoms. KCC-CHAKSHU (Kisan Call Centre-Collated Historically Aggregated Knowledge based System using Hypertext User Interface) has been developed. To implement an intelligent online platform for supporting agriculture, Kisan SARATHI implemented and strengthened in association with Digital India Corporation, Ministry of Electronic and Communication Technology (MeitY), Government of India. This is an on call advisory services for farmers of India, where any farmer can call or record their query in his own language automatically directed to respective KVK/ATARI for query redressal. KVK portal (Krishi Vigyan Kendra Knowledge Network) has been strengthened by adding new functionality to add information on yield gap index and to view state and district wise report in the portal. E-Learning portal has been developed with an objective to strengthen the Agriculture Higher Education in India by developing and disseminating the e-courses for undergraduate and postgraduate courses. At present, E-contents for 70 postgraduate and 141 undergraduate courses are available on this portal. Experimental Data Repository and Infographics Dashboard of KRISHI (Knowledge based Resource Information System Hub for Innovations in Agriculture) were enriched with more information systems. ICAR Geo-Portal was updated. Area Production and Yield Information System was developed. A machine learning–based computational model for prediction of miRNAs associated with four specific abiotic stresses such as cold, drought, heat and salt was developed. An online prediction server “ASmiR” (Abiotic stress responsive miRNA prediction in plants) was developed. For Empowering Women in Agriculture, ICAR-CIWA is actively engaged in a range of research projects addressing gender issues in agriculture and related fields. It is operating across 12 states in India, in collaboration with 13 State Agricultural Universities, as AICRP on Women in Agriculture. Two Custom Hiring Centre focusing on Spice Processing and Mushroom were established in Puri district of Odisha for Farm women mobilization and empowerment. To enhance the efficiency of agricultural operations, Women Self-Help Group (SHG)-based Custom Hiring Centers (CHC) and Farmers’ Interest Groups (Ananya Mahila Bikas Samiti) were established.