 The project is also a multi-Global Practice collaboration (Agriculture and Education) and supports activities and results directly related to cross-cutting strategic areas of climate change, jobs and gender. NAHEP is supporting the Agricultural Universities (AUs) under the ICAR education system through 3 major components such as; Institutional Development Plans (IDP) Supports 22 AUs for quality enhancement, business entrepreneurship and employability for Undergraduate (UG) students; Centre for Advanced Agricultural Science and Technology (CAAST) Supports 16 AUs for scientific entrepreneurship, employability and research effectiveness for Postgraduate (PG) students; and Role of the National Agricultural Higher Education Project in achieving Sustainable Development Goals Article Himanshu Pathak1, R C Agrawal2 and Hema Tripathi3 I NAHEP endeavours to increase agricultural productivity and supports quality improvements of higher education to create a more skilled workforce that continuously improves the productivity of key sectors, including agriculture. 22 Innovation Grants (IG) Supports 24 AUs/ Colleges for attaining accreditation. NAHEP is also supporting 3 ICAR institutes under Component 2 of NAHEP to focus on institutional reforms and ICT infrastructures. Altogether, NAHEP has supported 62 AUs and 3 ICAR institutions across 23 states of the country. While implementing the activities to meet the project's objective, NAHEP has contributed significantly to achieving SDG goals, directly or indirectly, since its implementation. SDGs addressed by NAHEP Along with agriculture and education, NAHEP interventions have either direct or indirect bearing on innovation, climate change, conservation of soil, water (specifically marine water), sustainable energy, gender equality, etc. Activities or achievements made under the project are mentioned below, which explains how NAHEP directly/indirectly supports the achievement of SDG goals: and is a key to eliminating poverty. Indicator 4.4 of SDG 4 states that “By 2030, substantially increase the number of youth and adults who have relevant skills, including technical and vocational skills, for employment, decent jobs and entrepreneurship”. NAHEP interventions are suitably addressing this target. NAHEP Project Appraisal Document (PAD) rightly identifies that NAHEP promotes: (a) equal access to affordable vocational training; and (b) greater gender and wealth equity through universal access to quality higher education. Specifically, NAHEP interventions intend to increase the supply of qualified technicians (through certificate programs at AUs) and teachers (through international cooperation for teacher training and faculty exchange). To date, partner/awarded AUs under NAHEP have organized thousands of skill development trainings for AU students and aspiring entrepreneurs.