 Amino acid composition and physico-chemical properties of different fractions of caseins; Whey process, denaturation of milk proteins as influenced by temperature, pH and additives; Biosynthesis, structure, function and physico-chemical properties of α-lactalbumin and ß-lactoglobulin, immunoglobulins, lysozyme, lactoferrins, lipoproteins and fat-globule membrane proteins and their importance; Milk protein allergenicity; Role in immune response; Chemistry of milk enzymes and their significance with reference to milk processing and milk products. Kinetics of chemical reactions and enzyme kinetics; Casein hydrolysate, co-precipitates, and whey protein concentrates; bioactive peptides. Functional properties of milk proteins and their modifications using enzymatic and physical treatments Unit 3 Milk lipids – classification, composition, structure and general physical and chemical properties. Auto-oxidation – definition, theories, factors affecting, prevention and measurement. Antioxidants – mechanism of reaction and estimation. Lipolysis. Fatty acids – profile, properties and affecting factors. Unsaponifiable matter. Cholesterol – structure, forms, importance and level in milk. Chemistry of phospholipids and their role in milk and milk products. Fat – soluble vitamins – chemistry, physiological functions, levels in milk, cream, butter and ghee. Biosynthesis of milk fat. CLA biosynthesis and its nutritional and health benefits. Unit 4 Milk adulteration and detection methods; Estimation methods for antibiotics, pesticides, heavy metals, lactose, lactate, protein, total solid, fat, salt, vitamin C, calcium, phosphorous, iron, citric acid in milk and milk products. Estimation of vitamin A, total phospholipids and free fatty acids in ghee. Estimation of starch in food. Measurement of BOD and COD in dairy waste. Unit 5 Cream – Size distribution of fat globules, creaming phenomenon, composition and properties of cream and dry cream. Chemistry of neutralization and ripening. Butter. Mechanism of churning 79 during butter preparation. Desi and creamery butter composition, properties, microstructure, grading, standards and defects. Ghee-Compositional differences in ghee prepared by different methods and variations in ghee and butter oil, Analytical constants and factors affecting them. Differences in cow and buffalo ghee. Hydrolytic and oxidative deterioration of ghee, their causes and prevention. Adulteration of ghee and methods of detection. Ghee grading, Antioxidants: natural and synthetic. Physico-chemical characteristics of buttermilk and ghee residue. Unit 6 Heat stability of milk as affected by various milk constituents and additives. Role of protein-protein interaction and age gelation of UHT milk. Physical and chemical changes during preparation of concentrated milk and subsequent storage. Compositional differences between condensed and evaporated milk. Dried milk; Structure and physico-chemical properties.