 There was no statistical difference between the measured plant heights, meaning that the chemical fertilizers did not significantly affect the plants’ height. The authors observed a colour change from pale green to dark green in the plants sprinkled with BPs and chemical fertilizer, while the control remained pale green. This observation demonstrated that BPs could be effective in improving plant health. The data from onion leaves indicated that on the first three days, the growth of the plant treated with BPs was slower compared to the other treatments. However, an increase in the growth rate was observed on the 4th day in terms of height. No colour variations were observed in any of the treatments. A banana peel, duckweed, and eggshell composite fertilizer demonstrated the ability to increase the pH of the soil to a range suitable for growing crops [19]. Their preparation as a fertilizer included air-drying for 72 h and the further oven-drying of 200 mg of each at 45 ◦C. Then, they were pulverized and mixed to test their efficiency and effect on the soil through the growth of wheat in three replicates. The soil was sterilized in an oven for half an hour at 80 ◦C. The blended organic materials accelerated the early developmental growth of the plant compared with the control experiment. Agriculture 2024, 14, 1894 9 of 24 Studies of dried banana peels have shown that several factors influence fertilizer performance. These are mainly the period of nutrient release, the medium in which the organic waste is decomposed, and the fertilizer application method. It was also noticed that BPs play a crucial role in the early developmental stages of plants. 3.1.3. Composite Banana Peel Fertilizers As discussed in the introduction, BPs are rich in K, which is favourable for soil enrichment. However, they are deficient in other nutrients, such as P, Ca, and N, which also play a crucial role in plant growth. Using this organic waste as a standalone fertilizer can significantly limit plant growth emanating from deficiencies in soil nutrients. This has led to further research into developing composite fertilizers from other organic waste combined with BPs. Such waste should be organic and endow the BPs with nutrients they lack. It can include wastes such as eggshells, orange peels, wood ash, tangerine, and pomegranate peels, to name a few. Studies presenting these types of composite waste materials, as well as their elemental composition, plant height, and other parameters, are summarized in Table 5. Dried BPs + pomegranate peels in one pot and orange peels + BP powders in another pot, in equal proportions (0.5 g each), were used to study the effects of composite peels on the growth and yield of Okra over eight weeks [38]. The results showed that the difference in plant height between the two treatments was insignificant. However, there was a significant difference in the measured leaf area and root length between the two composite organic fertilizers.