 It has been observed growing on the cliffs between Folkestone and Dover. Common name : Turmeric Botanical name : Curcuma longa Family : Zingiferaceae Description Deciduous underground rhizomes dormant through winter. New growths appear in spring and grow fast in the warm months. In summer, an inflorescence is produced from in-between the leaf petioles. The bracts are not as colorful as  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT other species in the genus. The uppermost bracts are white with just a hint of light mauve color on the tips. The bloom can be used as a cut flower. Anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, anti-mutagenic, anti-cancerous, cholagogueue, depurative, diuretic, fumitory, hemostatic, hepato- protective, lactagogue, stomachic, tonic, vulnerary Country Brazil, China, Java, Malaya, Nepal, Philippines Experimenters : Dr S. Ganeshan, Principal Scientist, Dr K.P. Gopala Krishna Rao, Head, Division of Post Harvest Technology and Dr I.N. Doreyappa Gowda, Sr. Scientist and Head, Division of Post Harvest Technology, Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Hessaraghatta Lake Post, Bangalore (Karnataka) 560 089 METHODOLOGY Location The study was conducted at the Indian Institute of Horticultural Research, Bangalore. Experiment Boris of small and big size were prepared as per the recipe provided by the discloser. Boris Table 1. Yield and moisture content of different types of boris Type of bori Yield (%) Moisture content (%) Big bori 84 12.5 Small designed bori 81 10.9 Small bori 85 12.9 Making cost of bori Rs 50 to 60 / kg made of pigeonpea, khesari dal, urdal with other ingredients were prepared by soaking the dal overnight, grinding and additing other ingredients such as ginger, bitter gourd, salt, chilly powder, zeera etc, and then by drying on steel plate smeared with mustard oil. Dry boris were packed in food-grade containers and stored. Dry boris were also fried in oil and tasted. From the initial experimentation, it was found  FOOD PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT that protein-rich, low-cost dry product can be prepared by simple recipe and procedure. The taste of mustard oil-fried boris is not very much acceptable in southern India. Hence attempts will be made to change the oil and see whether there will be appreciable change in the taste of the product. Information on moisture content of different boris and yield is given in Table 1. CONCLUSION Protein-rich, low-cost, nutritious food product can be prepared using common ingredients and simple recipe. There is a need to improve or change the taste of the product.   NATURAL YARNS AND DYES Code : 574 Title of the ITK : Evaluation of physico-chemical properties of rambans (sisal) fibre Description of the ITK : Sisal (Agave sisalana) provides good quality fibre which is traditionally used for making ropes for tying animals and in other agricultural purposes. Farmers also grow this plant on the edges of the terrace in order to protect the crop from animals.