 In Arid zone fruits, Ber Seb Banarasi Kadaka, Mundia, Dandan, Alwar Desi, Govindgarh Special and Kala Gola proved superior in all aspects, and a genotype that bears fruits twice a year was identified. Major achievements of Post-harvest management of fruits include extension of shelf-life of Kesar mango fruits up to 54 days; excellent marketability of white button mushroom up to 7 days; superiority of small packaging to large packaging in onion to avoid rotting; excellent marketability of cut-rose variety First Red up to 3 days in zero-energy cool chamber at ambient temperature; development of a technology for fruit- based carbonated drinks on the pilot plant scale; standardization of method for apple-pulp preparation; formation of onion powder from its slices; and standardization of drying and dehydration including osmotic concentration for plum, ginger, apple and galgal. In Vegetable crops, 29 open-pollinated, 8 F1 hybrids and 3 varieties resistant to diseases were identified for OVERVIEW 3 commercial cultivation in different agro-climatic zones. The F1 hybrids ARBH 541, PBH 6 (both long) and JBH 1 (round) in brinjal; BSS 20 in tomato (indeterminate); PCUCH 1 in cucumber; NDBH 4 in bottle gourd; RHRBGH 1 in bitter gourd; and DVR 3 in okra were identified for release in all the zones of the country. Varieties DPP 68 and KS 245 of pea (mid-season, resistant to powdery mildew) and VRO 3 of okra (resistant to yellow-vein mosaic virus) were also identified. Radish varieties IIVR 1 (30 days) and IIVR 2 (40-50 days) were developed. Stable CMS lines were developed in chilli for the hybrid seed production. Soil solarization of nursery-beds resulted in 90, 86.7 and 74.2% seedling stand in brinjal, chilli and tomato, respectively, with reduced bacterial wilt and weed population. In potato, TPS population 92 PT 27 proved better than recommended one for raising commercial crop. The DNA fingerprints of 23 advanced hybrids and TPS parent EX/A 680-16 were prepared. Thirty-four transgenic lines were also produced by introducing AmA1 gene in 5 Indian varieties to increase protein content. Soil solarization was effective for the control of russet scab, black scrub and tuber cracking coupled with increased tuber yield. A 3-row sub-soiler was designed and developed. A potato digger for potato-sugarcane intercrop was also designed. Seventeen edible processed products (10 non-fried and 7 fried) were prepared on small scale. A total of 3,968 accessions comprising cassava, sweet potato, yams, aroids and minor tuber crops were maintained at Thiruvananthapuram. Cassava hybrids Sree Rekha and Sree Prabha, with good-cooking quality, were released for cultivation in Kerala. True cassava seed technology was developed to overcome its biological constraints. Cassava hybrids CE 165, CE 328 and CI 301 were found drought tolerant. Active charcoal proved to be an effective medium for mass trapping of rice weevil, a major pest of stored cassava chips.