 Linking FPOs to e-NAMs and futures market; research programmes making a comprehensive and in depth analysis of various dimensions of the implementation of FPOs, futures market and e-NAM and challenges encountered and benefits realized by various stakeholders is essential. Promoting diversified roles to be performed by the FPO/ SHG on the wake of changing needs of agricultural marketing. Farmer Producer Organizations, self-help groups, cooperatives, producer companies, etc. could effectively be involved for out-scaling innovations and theses organizations should have easy access EXECUTIVE SUMMARY Compendium Salient Recommendations 10 to technology, financial services, including credit and hand-holding from public organizations for promoting demand-driven innovations in the broader national interest. Customized strategies for large and small farmers regarding skill development, promotion and replication of successful FPOs, financial inclusion and infrastructure development are recommended. Agri smart cities, pilot plants for processing and production of value added products, solar equipment centers, modern storage facilities are important to attract rural youth in agriculture. Development of cost effective storage systems for farm level storage (capacity 0.5-2 tonnes) and for agro-processing industries (capacity 1000- 5000 tonnes) and design and development of modern warehouses for bag storage structures (capacity > 10,000 tonnes). Improvement in design of godowns, their mechanization for grain handling, environment control and fumigation etc. requires attention. In the field of statistics, augmenting new methods/tools in bioinformatics and genetics as well as vulnerability assessment for different agro-ecologies/production system at micro level region so as to identify specific adaptation strategies to cope up with the climate change and associated environmental shocks and disasters are required. The NARS may step up research on Big Data in Agriculture so as to integrate farming under digital platform. Costal agro forestry research must be promoted for environmental and livelihood security. Other Ideas: Funding may be increased for agriculture research, education and development so as to match with the agri-output. Production of non-wood forest products (NWFPs) to enhance economic and nutrition security should be given emphasis for poor people in tribal areas. Increase in area under pulses by utilizing fallow lands and adopting intercropping in pulses. Modern education tools such as Para agriculture schools may be increased. 8. Agricultural Engineering Eleven meetings were organized on the themes falling under the mandate of this Division. The salient recommendations are summarized below: Facilitation of Mechanization: There is an urgent need to innovate custom service or a rental model by institutionalization for high cost farm machinery and can be adopted by private players or Governmental organizations in major production hubs.