 Adaptation of integrated nutrient supplementation strategy to maintain soil health and nutrient efficient crop production system in jhum lands. Regular soil health check up with soil health cards will be also useful Skill development of rural youths for hi-tech modern crop production system. 385 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 Strategy Action Plan Cost reduction Promote crop/site specific farm mechanization and livestock services Promote community farming for maximize utilization of fixed cost sharing involved in present crop production sector by farmers. Construction and facilitating the accessibility of post harvest infrastructure for the farmers across Mizoram state. To fetch good market price for off-season supply of farm produce. Reduction in transportation cost by improving infrastructure of road network and facilitating communication facilities Quality improvement Adaption of organic agriculture practice and strengthening the process for organic certification. Selective on farm conservation of potentially nutritious landraces (maize, chilli, French bean etc), those are already reported for their superior food quality and preferred by the local tribal communities. Precision nutritional management to ensure timely supply of different nutritional elements based on real time detection. Generating additional income Promotion/inclusion of cash crop cultivation (spices, medicinal aromatic plants etc.) in the jhum crop archives under Jhum improvement programme. Progressive initiatives like rainwater harvesting and its efficient utilization through micro irrigation, aiming to increase the crop intensity during Rabi season. Demonstration on the scientific mushroom cultivation (Oyster mushroom, butter mushroom etc.), bee keeping, sericulture, lac culture are some alternative ways to secure extra income to the farmers , other than the traditional source of farm income (crop cultivation, rearing livestock and fishery/ aquaculture etc) Animal Husbandry and Veterinary Sciences: Strategy Action Plan Enhancing crop production Providing an improved quality breed of livestock and poultry to the farmers. Construct the suitable infrastructure (water reservoir tanks, water supply, efficient pumps etc.) to fulfil the water demand. Regular health check up and efficient use of medicine/antibiotic under the supervision of a veterinarian. Cost reduction Good linkage of farm to the main road. Location of farm near market area. Quality improvement Selective breeding on native breeds. Upgrading of non-descript animals with superior breeds. Cross breeding of improved breeds to produce superior offspring by taking advantage on heterosis. Avoidance of inbreeding. Health management by routine deforming and vaccination. Nutritional management by providing balanced ration for each age group.