 So, it is important to make best use of the available genetic, natural resources and markets to enhance the productivity and profitability from millet cultivation in India. *Corresponding author’s e-mail: chapke@millets.res.in Indian Farming 100 January 2023 Performance of post-rainy (rabi) sorghum production technology under FLDs for enhancing productivity and profitability Rajendra R Chapke* ICAR-Indian Institute of Millets Research, Rajendranagar, Hyderabad, Telangana 500 030 Sorghum is mainly grown during rainy (kharif) and post-rainy (rabi) season. Post-rainy sorghum is mostly used for human consumption due to its good grain quality. Increasing productivity with improved cultivars based on soil conditions where rabi sorghum is grown on residual soils is of much importance in climate change scenario. Apart from the adoption of improved cultivation practices, adoption of soil moisture conservation practices like deep ploughing, compartmental bunding or ridge and furrow method are beneficial in reducing water stress, improve yield and net returns compared to traditional practices. Total 3699 frontline demonstrations (FLDs) on rabi sorghum were organized in major sorghum growing areas of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana and Gujarat since 2012–13 to 2021–22 with improved rabi sorghum technologies which gave 49% more grain yield than the farmer’s practice (FP) and resulted into 49% more net returns. Keywords: Frontline demonstrations, Improved production technologies, Net returns, Post-rainy sorghum, Yield advantages O NE of the major alternative for wheat and maize is a great millet commonly known as sorghum, which is vernacularly known as Saloo Jwari (Marathi), Juar (Bengali, Gujarati, Hindi), Jola (Kannada), Cholam (Malayalam, Tamil), Janha (Oriya), Jonnalu (Telugu), Milo and Chari. It is one of the most important cereal crops grown in both kharif (rainy) and rabi (post-rainy) seasons in the semi-arid regions of the country. In India, rabi sorghum is grown in an area of 3.01 million hectare (mha) as compared to 1.75 mha under kharif sorghum. As rabi sorghum is consumed without polishing due to its cleanliness, the total dietary fibre and minerals are easily available for human body. Maharashtra (1.98 mha), Karnataka (0.69 mha) and Andhra Pradesh (0.11 mha) are the major rabi sorghum growing states in the country. Although the productivity of rabi sorghum is low, it has better economic value for farmers as compared to kharif sorghum because of its better grain quality for food and is a major source of fodder for animals during lean summer period. The inputs required for rabi sorghum are lower than other cereals like wheat, rice and maize that make it more profitable. Much of the rabi sorghum is grown on residual and receeding soil moisture on shallow, medium and deep soils. Therefore, the progress in hybrid rabi sorghum breeding is limited.