 The study on resource use efficiency and identification of the determinants of technical efficiency of paddy, wheat and cotton crops in Punjab, found that reallocation of inputs saved money; farm size and education level of head of family significantly affected efficiency; and number of fragments, and bio- abiotic stress negatively influenced the technical efficiency. Study on ICT initiatives in NARS revealed that the productivity of faculty improved by increasing availability and use of ICT initiatives. The government of India intends to reach the research intensity of one per cent of AgGDP as higher allocation of public fund and well qualified scientific manpower will strengthen India’s position as a major provider of agricultural R&D services globally. Statistics and computer applications: Union Minister for Agriculture and Farmers Welfare inaugurated the ICAR Data Centre and launched the KVK Mobile App at ICAR-Indian Agricultural Statistics Research Institute, New Delhi. ICAR Data Centre provides the ICT infrastructure for hosting the web applications developed by ICAR Institutes; and the unified messaging solution (https://mail.icar.gov.in) of all ICAR personnel under single ICAR domain for effective communication. ICAR Data Center is ISO-27001:2013 certified for Information Security and ISO 20000-1:2011 for IT Service Management System. The Management System for Post Graduate Education, was implemented for IARI, CIFE, NDRI and CAU. PMIS, a workflow OVERVIEW DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2017–18 8 based system, was successfully implemented for posting of newly recruited scientists and online transfer process in ICAR. A mega team of ICAR scientists from ICAR- IIPR, Kanpur and ICAR-IASRI, New Delhi has successfully reported candidate genes and pathways of herbicide tolerance in chickpea for the first time in the world (http://journal.frontiersin.org/article/10.3389/ fpls.2017.00958/full). These findings can be of immense use in improving productivity of chickpea germplasm with better ecological and food safety. Genetic code of fungus Atheliarol fsii, the causal agent for groundnut stem rot, was successfully sequenced for the first time in the world (https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598- 017-05478-8). This finding will pave the way of genome based solution in stem rot disease management, leading to better productivity of groundnut crop in tropical region of the world. Sampling methodology for estimating crop area, yield and production under mixed and continuous cropping was developed, tested and validated in Indonesia, Rwanda and Jamaica. A suitable sampling methodology aligned with existing Input Survey for estimation of private food grain stock and post harvest losses at farm level, was developed. This will provide farm level reliable estimates of food grain stock including post-harvest losses at district level.