 Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2909 Water lifting through thermal power 2910 Pooran pump-a bullock- driven water lifting pump Shri Tej Singh Goyal of Mandi town in Himachal Pradesh has innovated a thermo water-lifting pump, which is useful for lifting water where electricity is not available. Pine needles or dry bio-waste can be utilized for lifting water. It can be used to generate electricity in a modified way. Two steel tanks of 1 m3 each (1,000 litres capacity) are placed at the same height, one is filled with water and the other is kept for air. They are connected with each other. An opening of 1.5 inches is kept to fill water in the tank and it is made airtight. One delivery pipe of 2 in. is fitted with non-return valve, to the water tank. The water tank is filled before the process of drawing water starts. When the air tank is heated with biomass or any other fuel, the air in the tank expands and exerts pressure on the tank, so that the water gets pumped outside. This process is repeated again to get the desired quantity of water for irrigation and other purposes. This pump is very economical in operation as fuel consumption is very low, i.e. 100 ml for 200 litres of water and it can also be used to generate electricity in a modified way. Keywords: thermo, water lifting, pump, steel tank In view of the shortage of diesel and kerosene in villages and crisis of electricity, Shri Pooranlal of village Bhagwantpura (MP), has developed a Shri Tej Singh Goya!, H. No. 167/8, Manditown (Himachal Pradesh) 175001 Shri Pooranlal Kushwaha, Bhagwantpura, Jatara, Pahadi Bujarg, dist. Content FARM IMPLEMENTS Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2911 Energy conservation in agricultural pumpsets bullock-driven water-lifting pump. Farmers can use their existing resources and get sufficient water for irrigation and domestic work. The pump has a gear box, crown gear teeth (24" diameter), pinion teeth (4" diameter), gear 70 teeth-12" diameter, pinion-20 teeth-2" diameter, gear shaft, bearings, pulley, V-belt, centrifugal pump (non-electricity motor 3 HP) and yoke (3 m long). The major function of this pump is to convert the bullock energy into mechanical energy. The main component is the reduction gear unit, which transmits the power to the system. The main conversion unit, which consists of an old chaff-cutter gearbox and gear-reduction unit is installed at a suitable foundation. The pump provides the output equivalent to 3 HP electric centrifugal pump. Keywords: bullock, water pump, gear, mechanical energy During an intensive survey conducted by Dr Jagdeesh in Nellore (Andra Pradesh), it was found that many motor pump sets have a mismatch between suction and delivery. Dr lagdeesh, therefore, designed a device to tap the residual kinetic energy and reduce the exit losses (without disturbing the pipes). A diverging suction is fitted to the discharge end.