 Keywords: sea buckthorn, tumor, digestive disorder, respiratory ailments, foot and mouth disease, fuel, irrigation, fertility, timber, food items, Shri A.K. Agnihotri Joint Director (Planning) and Sr. Scientist, Directorate of Research, Dr. YSPUHF Naini, Solan (Himachal Pradesh)  medicinal, alcoholic 2708 Treatment of cough with Jhau (Tamarix ericoides) A few leaves of jhau are cooked with rice and given to children to get relief from cough. The decoction of leaves is reported to cure children as well as adults. This wisdom is being used throughout the hilly area of Himachal Pradesh. Keywords: cough, jhau leaves People of Karsog area in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of Bio- Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2685 Treatment of stomach pain with Xylosma longifolium This practice is very effective for control of stomach pain and intestinal worms in human beings. About 5 g powder of bark of Xylosma logifolium is given to the patient suffering from stomach pain. In case of intestinal worms, a big doze is given early in the morning. This is being practiced throughout the hilly areas of district Mandi in Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: stomach pain, worms in intestine, Xylosma longifolium People of Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh at large Communicated by: Prof L. R. Verma Department of given Sciences, Himachal Pradesh University, Shimla (Himachal Pradesh) 171 005 2666 Use of local vegetation for the treatment of white discharge with urine In tribal area of Dungarpur district of Rajasthan, there is malnutrition in people. This causes weakness among the living persons. Sometimes weakness occurs due to physical abnormalities. In youths whitish secretion with urine happens to discharge constantly. Discharge of such material from the body causes weakness, thus man becomes inactive. Experienced person like Manji and Pargi provide local vegetation-based treatment as follows: (a) 2-3 green twigs or branches of bada gokhru (Pedalium murex) are taken and dipped in cupful of water 4–5 times. It is kept in water for 10 minutes or till the water become sticky or thick. It is given to the patient for 7 days. (b) Green twigs of the Amrita (giloe) (Tinospora urgensia) are extracted. Half cup of extract is given to patient for 7 days. After and during the treatment one has to avoid sour things (butter milk). Keywords: white secretion, bada gokhru, giloe Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Hajri Nanoma and Shri Harish Pargi S/o Shri S. S. Pargi, Naya Talab, Hatai Dungarpur (Rajasthan) 2671 Use of lal charmoli for treatment of excess bleeding after menstruation Tribal women of Naya Talab, Hathai in Dungarpur district of Rajasthan are using this treatment since long time, which is suggested by Shri Manji Nanoma. As a natural course in Shri Manji Nanoma S/o Shri Harji Nanoma, Naya Talab, Hathai, Dungarpur (Rajasthan)  ladies there is bleeding due to rupturing of cells.