 This study aimed at unraveling the underlying mechanism of leaf rust disease resistance at the molecular Batch of tissue culture raised Grand Naine (AAA) and Musa balbisiana (BB) plants agro-inoculated with 1.8-mer dimer (BSMYV) and viral suppressor (Hc-Pro/p19). Pearson correlation coefficient among amino acids and protein content of chickpea genotypes. Name Aspartic.Acid Glutamic.Acid Serine Histidine Threonine Glycine Arginine Alanine Tyrosine Cysteine Valine Methionine Tryptophan Phenylalanine Isoleucine Leucine Lysine Proline Protein.content 1 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.2 Name Aspartic.Acid Glutamic.Acid Serine Histidine Threonine Glycine Arginine Alanine Tyrosine Cysteine Valine Methionine Tryptophan Phenylalanine Isoleucine Leucine Lysine Proline Protein.content 0 -0.2 -0.4 -0.6 -0.8 -1 Glimpses of National Agricultural Science Fund (2006-2023) 26 level. Leaf tissue samples from seedlings raised at National Phytotron Facility, IARI, New Delhi having four treatments (two biological replicates of each treatment) were collected. A total of 50 miRNAs and 1178 lncRNAs were identified through in silico analysis of RNA-seq data, of these, 16 miRNAs and 22 lncRNAs were differentially expressed. Expression of 8 miRNAs was induced in resistant NIL which targeted several important genes including disease responsive genes. As many as 49 lncRNAs were found to be the targets for miRNAs; the results were also validated using qRT-PCR analyses. Role of histone modification (H3K4me3 for activation and H3K27me3 for repression) was examined using ChIP-Seq; several differentially binding sites (DBSs) and the associated genes for modified H3 were identified. Next, the role of DNA methylation was examined using bisulfite sequencing and context specific (CG, CHG and CHH) differential methylation was observed during compatible and incompatible interactions. A number of disease response genes undergoing differential methylation were identified including the cross interactions involving histone modifications, gene expression and DNA methylation. The results were validated using qRT-PCR and Chop- PCR. The computational prediction of non- coding(nc) RNAs and effectors was carried out in the available P. triticina genome sequences; some of these ncRNAs/effectors were validated using qRT-PCR. Expression of resistance to diapausing and non-diapausing spotted stem borer (Chilo partellus) in sorghum and maize: The genetic and biochemical variation in diapausing and non-diapausing populations of spotted stem borer, Chilo partellus in India was studied in this project. The proteolytic activity in diapause (aestivation) and non-diapause larvae of C. partellus at different locations showed that trypsin activity was significantly higher in non- diapause larvae (0.060 U mg-1) as compared to aestivation diapause larvae (0.049 U mg-1) of the Surat population. Chymotrypsin activity was significantly higher in non-diapause larvae (0.073 U mg-1) when compared with aestivation diapause larvae (0.