 The line denoted as cbar = 1 represents arbitrarily endogenous controls, and assuming completely exogenous controls is denoted by cbar = 0. The figure shows that for any fixed value of rx, imposing stronger assumptions on the exogeneity of the controls results in a smaller identified set (Diegert, Masten, and Poirier, 2022). 5.3. Factors related to market channel choice The results of Eq. (3) are displayed in Table 6. We analyze all crops together because there is no reason to expect differences. Consistent with the existing literature, the results highlight the statistically significant relationship between credit access and mar­ keting channel choice (Baylis et al., 2015). We find that credit access goes together with the engagement in APMC mandis, and farmers with better credit access are less likely to sell to pre-harvest contractors and private traders than to mandis. This can be explained by (i) contract farming requiring less capital, as contracting firms are more likely to provide inputs, and (ii) private traders potentially acting as informal credit providers. As discussed above, neither channel – pre-harvest contractors or private traders – is optimal for high-value vegetable farmers. They lead to sub-optimal lock-in relationships because farmers are obliged to sell their harvest to the credit pro­ vider, which allows them to mark down prices. A potential solution to this challenge would be improving the formal lending system (Kopp and Brümmer, 2017), such as micro-credit schemes (Andriani, Lal, and Kalam, 2022; Khandelwal, 2007; Anjugam and Ram­ asamy, 2007) or self-help groups (SHGs, Deininger and Deininger and Liu, 2013; Desai and Olofsgård, 2019; Villacis et al., 2022b). These schemes would lift some constraints on the farmers’ ability to choose a marketing channel. Self-help groups in particular are interested in empowering women in agriculture, as they have been considered sources of credit and extension services that help improve women’s status in society and household productivity (Meizen-Dick et al., 2019). Policymakers could encourage, through incentives, the formation of women’s self-help groups to increase access to information, participation in decision-making, marketing, and adoption of technology. Distance to contractors and roads negatively affects the likelihood of engaging in marketing relationships with pre-harvest con­ tractors. This highlights the role of transaction costs in contract farming in low- and middle-income countries (Fafchamps and Hill, 2005). This can be explained by the fact that the more difficult it is for a contractor to reach a farmer, the less likely a contracting relationship occurs. Producers of high-value export crops, i.e., pomegranate, would benefit from a better road infrastructure as this helps the outreach of the market channel that is most beneficial to them.