 The objectives of the congress is to take stock of the achievements, set priority in different horticulture crops, identify opportunities for new age technologies to facilitate sustainable horticulture production, and explore the potential of Northeast India as a growth engine for horticulture. Keeping with emerging demand, the congress would deliberate upon rapid technological advancement in different areas viz. advancement in crop improvement, production and protection technologies, use of Artificial Intelligence (AI), Machine Learning (ML), Big Data, Next Generation Sequencing and Genome Editing to create new avenues for precise cultivation and designing of new crop varieties in horticulture I am glad that the special issue of Indian Horticulture dedicated to “Horticulture in Northeast India” is being published, coinciding with the 10th Indian Horticulture Congress-2023. I hope that this special issue will bring a new dimension to the study and understanding of diverse horticulture crops and potential in the region. I congratulate the team of ICAR-DKMA for bringing out this beautiful compilation and all those experts whose contributions have been included in this special edition. Jai Hind! (Dr K L Chadha) Chairman, National Organising Committee, and President, Indian Academy of Horticultural Sciences, New Delhi Former DDG (Horticulture) ICAR Indian Horticulture 4 N ORTHEAST region is endowed with enormous plant- soil-climate diversity and out of 800 species of wild edible crops in India about 300 are in Northeast India. The region can boast of as many 16 GI (Geographical indicators) tags in horticultural crops viz., Naga Mircha, Naga Tree Tomato, Arunachal Orange, Sikkim Large Cardamom, Mizo Chilli, Assam Karbi Anglong Ginger, Tripura Queen Pineapple, Tezpur Litchi, Khasi Mandarin, Kachai Lemon, Tamenlong Orange, Memong Narang, Kaji Nemu, Hathei Chilli, Naga Cucumber and Mizo Ginger, which is an indication of stewardship in horticulture research and development opportunities. Amidst these glittering accomplishments, horticulture research in Northeast India has to be relooked afresh keeping in mind the important priorities catering to pressing multi-pronged demands of horticulture towards societal changes. Exploring diversity analysis using germplasm as an ecosystem: A plant genotype with an exotic trait growing in a natural habitat needs to be treated as a candid representation of the ecosystem with possible diversity assigned on account of variation in soil as growth habitat (microbial niches of phytobiome to investigate for beneficial microbes and microbial antagonists), phenotypic traits displaying tolerance against multiple stresses and yield/quality traits, though over-emphasized at times. While examining so, it is very likely to investigate a germplasm through all possible novel traits at various plant organizational setups. However, our current efforts do not address such wholesomeness.