 Training and practical demonstration on vermicomposting technology at village level by Sasya Shyamala KVK Indian Farming 4 May 2023 Basically, the bottleneck of the adaptation of vermicomposting technology to most of the farmers was the lacking of proper scientific knowledge and technical skills about composting process in respect of compost quality and productivity. In this regard, intensive extension activities of Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) regarding awareness and technical skills buildup for proper utilization of agricultural wastes by producing vermicompost make a considerable step throughout the India (Table 1). Sasya Shyamala Krishi Vigyan Kendra, RKMVERI, Arapanch, Sonarpur, West Bengal primarily assessed the scenario of the vermicomposting technology in different villages of different Blocks of South 24 Parganas district of West Bengal and took an initiative for popularizing the vermicomposting technology to the farmers of 4 villages (Moushul, Andulgaria, Shewraberia) of Bhangar I and Majherpara village of Canning II Block of the district. Through the PRA, it was identified that the requirement of compost was high but the constraint was the availability of the compost. Considering this initially a number of awareness cum training programmes were conducted. For proper dissemination of the waste utilization technologies, vermicomposting was taken as the lead technology to fulfill three objectives of demonstration- enhancing income generation, compost production and increasing crop yield with higher productivity, and reduced cost of cultivation. Different initiatives through trainings, group discussions, farm clinic etc. were taken to gear up their knowledge and skills for vermicompost production in scientific way followed by demonstration in their villages during 2019–2021. After assessing the interest and technical skills of the farmers, total 32 numbers of farmers, farm women and rural youths were selected as beneficiaries from the villages and one vermicompost unit was developed for each of them in their own household under the financial support from ICAR-ATARI and ICAR-NBSSLUP, Kolkata Regional Center during 2019 to 2021. The composting processes were regularly monitored by the expert from KVK and compost quality was evaluated. In addition, the horizontal expansion of the composting technology to the villages was also monitored to assess the success of the technology dissipation. Development of vermicompost demonstration units From the experiences of working in the field of vermicomposting, the KVK observed superiority of the Eudrilus eugeniae over commonly used sp. Eisenia foetida. For demonstration purpose, one cemented compost tank (height = 2 feet, length = 8 feet, width = 4 feet) was developed within the budget of `5000–6500 in the beneficiaries’ household. The tank floor had the internal slope of 1% with a outlet to collect the vermiwash properly. The shades of the units were developed by the beneficiaries at their own cost.