 The demand for floriculture products has increased manifold in national and international markets. Sporadic but impressive attempts to develop floriculture have begun in several states in the region. However, to realise the potential of floriculture in Northeast India, a well thought out strategy involving all stakeholders and government support is required. This paper outlines the status, opportunities and strategy for harnessing the potential of floriculture in the Northeastern states of India. The Northeastern region of India comprises eight states, namely Arunachal Pradesh, Assam, Manipur, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Nagaland, Tripura and Sikkim. This region lies between 21°57’ and 29°28’ north latitude and 89°40’ to 97°50’ east longitude and occupies 2.55 lakh km2, which is about 8% of the total geographical area of the country. Physiographically, it is divided into three divisions namely the Meghalaya Plateau, the Northeastern Hills and the Brahmaputra Valley. The NE hills alone account for 65% of the total land area, while the Brahmaputra Valley and the Meghalaya Plateau account for 22% and 13% respectively. More than 64% of the total land area in the Northeastern states is covered by dense deciduous forests. Dr M S Swaminathan, a renowned Indian scientist, described the region as a cultural and genetic paradise and a granary of mega diversity in terms of flora and fauna. Despite the wealth of natural resources and climatic diversity, economic development in Northeastern states of India is poorest from the rest of the country. Climate change, declining crop yields, poverty and unemployment are putting pressure on natural resources. As a result, natural resources in the region are under threat. Floriculture is a very important sector of Cymbidium Orchid November–December 2023 77 the horticulture industry, which is labour intensive and offers the highest profitability per unit profitability. It also creates jobs, from cultivation to post-harvest handling, marketing, value addition and retail sales of the products. Among the flower crops, high- value and low volume crops are promising for this area. In India, floriculture is a fast- growing agricultural sector that is witnessing a revolution consisting of production and marketing of high-value crops, which has made it a 100 per cent export-oriented industry. In 2020-21, flower crops were grown on about 322 thousand hectares of land, with an estimated production of 2151.96 thousand tonnes of loose flowers and 828.09 thousand tonnes of cut flowers (NHB, 2022). Subsequently, India exported 23,597.17 tonnes of floriculture products worth ` 771.41 crores/$103.47 million across the world (APEDA). Floriculture is emerging as a diversified industry with flowers and ornamental plants having significant aesthetic, social, environmental and economic value. The Indian flower business is worth an estimated $ 400 million in retail trade and about $ 100 million in international flower trade.