 CO and NOx were, however, found lower in fuel containing 20% ethanol in the blend. The study concludes that up to 38.9% of HSD fuel can be replaced by 170° proof ethanol and 1-butanol for CI engines. Electronic temperature controller fixed with a natural convection solar dryer. This is now commercially available. AGRICULTURAL ENGINEERING AND TECHNOLOGY 149 ANIMAL ENERGY Improved Animal-drawn Equipments Thirteen animal-operated zero-till-drills were fabricated and provided to the farmers of the hilly and tarai regions. Also, ten sets of matching implements of increased size, mould-board plough, disc harrow, cultivator and patela, were provided to farmers. Use of increased size implements gave 20–30% of higher area coverage with the same pair of animals. Bullock-owning farmers extensively used wedge plough for interculture operations. Wedge plough was modified and fabricated for attachment of 2 and 3 rows. Five sets of increased size bakhar blade, Nagpuri yoke, three row seed-cum- fertilizer drill, wedge plough and sweep cultivator were provided to farmers of Udaipura, Ghana and nearby villages of Goharganj Tehsil of Raisen district. They found these equipments superior to traditional ones. Under the ORP trials, the Udaipur centre provided camel-drawn matching package of implements, blade harrow, bund former, disc harrow, 3- and 5-tyne cultivator, multipurpose tool frame with seeding attachment, CIAE inclined plate planter and groundnut digger to the farmers of different villages of Bikaner and Sardarsahar in Churu district. The farmers found that these equipments gave about 30% more output than the traditional implements. IRRIGATION AND DRAINAGE ENGINEERING Artificial Groundwater Recharge through Bore-wells An underground irrigation grid system has been designed, and installed at the CIAE, Bhopal farm, for recharging groundwater using harvested water. The pipe lines were of HDPE pipes with rated pressure of 6 kg/cm2 to meet carrying capacity of 40 lps. The pipe-line was laid at 0.75-m depth. Depending upon the field requirement, risers with hydrants were provided at 66-m interval to take out water through valve-opener for irrigation. At all water sources, water meters were fitted with non-return valves in grid system for recharging the groundwater. Before non- return valve, a hydrant was provided so that water from the tube-well/open-wells could be pumped into the grid system. The pipe-line could be used for irrigation as well as for recharging groundwater. The fluctuations in water-table were measured at fortnightly interval in 3 observation wells. These indicated approximately a fall of above 10-m in water level in February in all observation wells compared to water-level in rainy season. An abandoned tube-well at the Institute farm was tested for recharging, and intake rate was found to be 8 lps, indicating a very good potential for recharging.