 Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated in farmers’ fields of Mahanga, Nischinticuil & Santpur villages of Odisha and also experimental fields of NRRI, Cuttack, Odisha for four consecutive seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details there of: A patent application (patent numbered 263/ KOL/2015 dated 10.03.2015) has been filed. 6. Benefits: Bentonite-based formulation of B. thuringiensis (TB 161) for managing rice folder has shown the remarkable response in the farmers’ field with leaf folder mortality of 79.29%. It could save from harmful effects of chemical pesticides on soil and human health. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack-753006 51 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bentonite-Based Formulation of Bt (TB261) for Managing Rice Leaf Folder 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bentonite-based formulation of Bacillus thuringiensis (TB261) is a unique biopesticide particularly for managing rice leaf folder. It has a longer shelf life (more than 8 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Bentonite-based formulation of Bt (TB261) for managing rice can be used for managing rice leaf folder. Inoculation can be done through spraying. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4. Validation and commercialization: The technology has been validated in farmers’ fields of Mahanga, Nischinticuil & Santpur villages of Odisha and also experimental fields of NRRI, Cuttack, Odisha for four consecutive seasons. 5. Whether licensed to private companies, if yes, details there of: A patent application (patent numbered 261/ KOL/2015 dt. 10.03.2015) has been filed. 6. Benefits: Bentonite-based formulation of B. thuringiensis (TB 261) for managing rice folder has shown the remarkable response in the farmers’ field with leaf folder mortality of 76.11%. It could save from harmful effects of chemical pesticides on soil and human health. 7. Contact: Director, ICAR-National Rice Research Institute, Cuttack-753006 52 M i c r o b e B a s e d T e c h n o l o g i e s D e v e l o p e d b y I C A R Bentonite-Based Formulation of Bt (TB263) for Managing Rice Leaf Folder 1. Name of the technology and its microbial constituent (Genus/ species): Bentonite-based formulation of Bacillus thuringiensis (TB 263) is a unique biopesticide particularly for managing rice leaf folder. It has a longer shelf life (more than 12 months) without loss of microbial populations and properties. 2. Target crops and delivery system: Bentonite-based formulation of Bt (TB263) for managing rice can be used for managing rice leaf folder. Inoculation can be done through spraying. 3. Target agroecological zones (if any): Eastern region of India 4.