 Further, about 1,573 disease resistance protein coding genes, and 1,533 transcription factor (TF) coding genes and 314 MIR ncRNA genes that code for 26 different families of microRNAs which regulate various genes for growth and developments of pomegranate plant were also discovered. Chromosome level assembly of Indian pomegranate cv. Bhagawa: The chromosome level assembly using HiC- chromo some conformation capture sequencing for the var. Bhagawa genome to assemble the entire genome into eight chromosomes was done. The libraries were prepared by using Genomics Proximo kit and sequenced by using Illumina NovaSeq 6000 platform. A total of 345 Mb of genome was covered having the presence of 33003 genes with 41682 mRNAs. Flowers and Other Ornamental Plants Tuberose: Arka Keerthi produces single type flowers on tall spikes, the flower buds have a green tinge on the tip with a greater number of flower buds per unit (kg). Flowers are medium in size with the matured bud weight of 1.29g. It bears more number of spikes (8.4) and bulbs (8.94) per clump per year. It has high loose flower yield (18.88 t/ha/year), field tolerant to nematode and leaf burn disease. Biotechnology Molecular linkage maps of Grape varieties: Molecular linkage maps were developed for two grape varieties. SNP marker-based linkage map developed for Carolina Black Rose consisted of 1716 SNP markers covering a total distance of 2219.96cM with an average distance of 1.29cM, whereas, Thompson Seedless consisted of 1308 SNP markers covering a total distance of 1453.46cM with an average distance of 1.11cM. QTL mapping based on SNP and phenotyping data of fifty hybrids of Carolina Blackrose and Thompson Seedless identified several QTL regions for berry weight and berry size. Association mapping analysis to identify the molecular markers linked to bunch architecture related traits identified 22 marker trait associations. SNP marker S5_4053397 on chromosome 5 showed association with bunch length, bunch width, bunch volume and berry weight. The linked markers are being validated in segregating population. Release of reference quality genome assembly of Indian pomegranate cv. Bhagawa: The assembly of the sequences resulted into a high-quality genome of pomegranate cv. Bhagawa. The reference-quality genome assembly of 346.08Mb was assembled in 342 scaffolds having an average N50 of 16.12 Mb. This Varietal signature for genetic purity of spices: The unique ISSR markers for distinguishing Pimenta dioica from Pimenta racemose were identifiedand identity of nutmeg varieties IISR Vishwashree, IISR Keralashree and Sindhushree established. The SNP based DNA barcoding of rbcL loci was done to distinguish Cinnamomum verum from C. cassia for authentication of samples from farmer’s field.