 = ATS, Demonstration field of EPN EPN applied small cardamom plantation Nematode: Infestation of nematode in cardamom is a major problem often amounting to heavy crop loss. The root-knot nematode, Meloidogyne incognita, causes severe damage to crop that is widely observed in almost all cardamom plantations, while the lesion nematode Pratylenchus coffeae and the burrowing nematode Radopholus similis are noticed in mixed plantations. Infested plants exhibit stunting, reduced tillering, reduced leaf size, yellowing of foliage, immature capsule drop and increased incidence of rhizome rot. Lecanicillium applied green capsules Lecanicillium applied dry capsules This pest was addressed through soil application of Paecilomyces lilacinus strain ICAR-NBAITI Plft5 (P155) @1kg in 50 kg FYM in small cardamom and soil application of Jeevamrutha @ 10 litre along with Azospirillum and ICAR-NBAIR-Trichoderma viride (10 g each) per plant in cardamom plantations. Before the adoption of ICAR-NBAIR technology, only chemical methods were followed and incidence of root knot nematode was 57.2% and net return %1,72,900/ha. After adoption of ICAR-NBAJR technology, the incidence of root knot nematode was only 6.5% and yield increased by 41% with net returns of %4,22,000/ ha. Root knot nematode affected plants Root knot nematode affected roots Se. 72 j ' Root knot nematode managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents Diseases of small cardamom Capsule rot/Panicle rot: This disease popularly known as azhukal which is most serious disease in cardamom. Studies on etiology of the disease confirmed that two species of Phytophthora, viz. P. meadii and P. nicotianae var. nicotianae are involved in this disease. Disease symptoms appear during the rainy season on leaves, tender shoots, panicles and capsules. On the infected leaves, water soaked lesions appear first and rotting and shredding of leaves along the veins occur thereafter. The infected capsules become dull greenish brown and rot. This emits a foul smell and subsequently shed off. Infection spreads to panicles and tillers resulting a complete decay of panicles and capsules. This disease was addressed through application of peat formulation of ICAR-NBAIR-Bacilus subtilis strain Bs and prophylactic application of ICAR- NBAIR-Pseudomonas fluorescens (2% spray) along with Indian Farming /6 March 2024 Indian Farming 77 March 2024 basal application of Glomus fasciculatum (arbuscular mycorrhizal fungi AMF) @ 50 g and ICAR-NBAIR- Trichoderma viride @ 100 g/plant at a monthly interval during the rainy season. The cost of application of ICAR-NBAIR-Bacilus subtilis is `4,400/ha as compared to regular chemical application where it costs `18,900/ha. Thus, it saves the cost of chemical application at the rate of `14,500 per ha and net returns gained per ha is `2,79,000. Capsule rot/Panicle rot disease managed through ICAR-NBAIR bio-agents Clump rot: It is otherwise called as rhizome rot occurs during monsoon period.