 Agroforestry Area in different states Melia and guava based Agroforestry system at farmer’s fileds at Sinagr, Jhansi 115 Natural Resource Management 115 ICAR-Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR - Central Research Institute for Dryland Agriculture Santoshnagar, Hyderabad - 500 059 (Telangana) ii. Name of the Director: Dr. V.K. Singh iii. Email address/ Phone No.: director.crida@icar.gov.in, 040-24530177 2. Mandate and activities • To undertake basic and applied research for sustainable and climate resilient agriculture in rainfed areas • To Co-ordinate network research for generating location-specific technologies in rainfed areas • To serve as a centre for capacity enhancement in natural resource management in drylands Activities 1. Development of system based farm production technologies 2. Designing, developing and demonstration of Climate resilient technologies 3. Rainwater harvesting and management 4. Extending agro-advisory services based on real time weather conditions. 3. Salient achievements • Developed 650 district agricultural contingency plans. • Risk and vulnerability assessment of Indian agriculture to climate change at district level as per IPCC AR-5. • Real-time contingency measures (soil, crop and water) to cope with early/midseason/terminal drought and flood. • Drought proofing action plans for 24 vulnerable districts of Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Rajasthan. • Prepared Risk Assessment and Vulnerability map of India in which 310 districts fall in ‘Very High’ and ‘High’ climate vulnerability Vulnerability of Indian Agriculture to Climate Change State of art infrastructure for Climate Change Research 116 ICAR Institutes Profile 116 ICAR-Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR- Central Coastal Agricultural Research Institute Ela, Old Goa – Goa- 403402 ii. Name of the Director: Dr.Parveen Kumar iii. Email Address: director.ccari@icar.gov.in / Phone no.: 0832-2995095 2. Mandate and activities • Researches on the field and horticultural crops, livestock, and fisheries relevant to the natural resource base of coastal India for sustainable productivity • Develop climate-resilient land use and farming systems for improved and sustainable livelihood through coastal agriculture • Act as a centre of agro-eco-tourism Activities • Conservation and management of natural resources of coastal region • Conservation and utilization of genetic resources in the coastal region • Development and validation of production technologies of major crops of coastal region • Development and validation of production technologies of livestock and fisheries • Improving livelihood security through post-harvest technologies and other agri-enterprises 3. Salient achievements • Resource mapping and characterization in coastal areas.