 • At Hyderabad in Agri‐silvi‐Horti system, among several combinations of Tamarind based system with custard apple and curry leaf as filler trees, it was noted that Tamarind + curry leaf + intercrops (such as Redgram, Jowar, Cluster bean and cowpea) were highly profitable rather than with combination of Tamarind + custard apple + crop, probably due to slightly long gestation period of custard apple than the curry leaf. • At Fatehpur – Shekhawati studies on evaluation of MPTs in systematic field design (parallel) revealed that growth performance of Azadirachta indica and Ailanthus excelsa increased with the increase in effective area per plant. • Studies conducted at Hisar centre showed that all the test crops of wheat, barley, lentil and berseem showed poor performance in association with 6 years old eucalyptus (6x2m). Wheat intercropped with eucalyptus (6x2m) required 6 irrigations compared to two www.icar.org.in 26 Research Achievements of AICRPs on Natural Resource Management irrigations in sole wheat thereby showing severe moisture competition of eucalyptus with wheat crop. • At Rahuri, among the different methods of filling of trenches of CCTs on soil water conservation and growth of Neem trees, the refilled CCT treatment, gave more plant height, collar diameter and bole height than no refilling (open trench only) trench method throughout the period of experiment. Similarly it was resulted in heighest timber volume and monitory returns. • In order to develop a sustainable agroforestry model for the high rainfall /assured rainfall areas of Karnataka state, a multicomponent agroforestry system involving sapota as a base crop (10m x 10m), five trees species viz., Eucalyptus tereticornis, Lagerstroemia lanceolata, Casuarina equisetifolia, Tectona grandis, Dalbergia sissoo were planted in sapota line at a distance of 3 m, 2m, 2m and 3m between two sapota trees at Dharwad. Guinea grass was planted along the tree line in a strip of one metre and the interspace was used for raising arable crops (11 years). In one of the longest trial (28 years), the economic evaluation was worked out by estimation of standing trees (timber, fuelwood etc,), income from fruit yield of sapota, receipt from felled trees at the end of 17 years and income from grass and crop yield. The result revealed that net returns (12% discounted interest) was higher in sapota+teak+field crop and benefit cost ratio in this treatment was 3.23:1 with a net average income of Rs. 38,977/ha/yr. • At Dapoli, the average reduction in grain yield of rice due to 14 years old tree species viz., A.auriculiformis, Eucalyptus and C. equisetifolia were 16, 17 and 28% respectively. The effect of pruning of branches of Terminalia tomentosa indicated that 100% pruning and lopping of branches which is a local practice recorded more height (6.3 m) and dbh (8.9 cm) as compared to control (5.5 m height and 7.9 cm dbh).