 During Phase III (1300−1850 CE), large-grained cereals (rice, wheat, barley) declined significantly in the macrobotanical assemblage, whereas small-grained millets (sorghum & pearl millet) dominated the agricultural produce with close to 100% relative abundance. However, the sheer abundance of Pennisetum glaucum. (n > 500,000) grains sug­ gests that the archaeological context from which they were sampled was a food storage deposit, rather than deposited in ash or refuse as was likely in previous phases. This interpretation is supported by the modest quantities of sorghum (n = 592) and mung bean (n = 10833) from the same context, which can be expected when a storage feature is reused for a few subsequent crops. As a result, interpretation of this macrobotanical assemblage is difficult, however the abundance of drought resistant millets (Pennisetum glaucum and Sorghum bicolor) in the Post-Medieval period at Vadnagar suggests a strategic shift towards of drought- resistant summer crops, resembling similar shifts seen in Indus Valley Civilisation period sites in Gujarat in response to weakening monsoon precipitation during the early 2nd millennium BCE. (Pokharia et al., 2011, 2017). As the millet macrobotanical remains are recovered from a single context in Trench YA1/92/73, we approach their interpretation with caution, however the phytolith and isotopic data in continuous sequence from Trench YA1/72/85 indicate that these changes are not confined to a single context but likely reflective of changes in crop production and processing more generally across the site. Within both Mughal and A.K. Pokharia et al. Quaternary Science Advances 13 (2024) 100155 9 Gaekwad (i.e. 16th−19th centuries CE) contexts, millet phytoliths dominate large-grained cereal types, while δ13CSOM values in the Gaekwad sub-phase shift from a minimum of −22.9‰ to a maximum of −9.27‰ (mean −12.4‰±5.25) that is the result of higher inputs C4 plants, likely being millet crops. The shift from a rice dominated agri­ culture to one dominated by millets during the Gaekwad period seems to indicate that water availability rather than seasonality was a driver of agricultural adaptation around the site. This contrasts with other regional studies that indicate more balanced shifts in the agricultural package as a response to changing climate conditions (Pokharia et al., 2020; Thakur et al., 2019). The archaeobotanical data from these later contexts also mirror the present-day cultivation practices around Vad­ nagar and indicate that the development of this current system was a comparatively recent phenomenon, taking place within the last few centuries. While this shift may be attributed to more acute arid condi­ tions associated with the Little Ice Age, Jain et al. (2022) note the disruption of patronage systems and obligations in relation to water management systems during the British colonial period in favour of revenue generating irrigation systems.