 Realizing the potential of natural farming, some countries, including India, have recently taken steps to promote its adoption. Natural farming has several advantages, yet there are still barriers to its widespread adoption. Keywords: Cow dung, Green revolution, Natural farming, Soil fertility, Sustainable agriculture I NDIA once possessed a self-sufficient socio- economic model in the pre-British era. However, colonization by the British and Western policies had a profound impact on India’s agriculture. In 1943, during World War II, the Bengal region faced a severe drought, leading to a policy failure that resulted in the loss of 30 lakh lives due to starvation in colonized India. The struggle for Indian independence was marked by significant challenges. In 1951, during the first population census, India had a population of 36.11 crore, with grain production at 50.82 million metric tonnes. This output proved inadequate to meet the nation’s food requirements. To address this shortfall, Indian leaders decided to expand agricultural land by clearing forests. Despite some improvements in grain production through the five-year action plan, it remained insufficient to meet the hunger needs of the population. In response, India sought assistance from the USA, signing Public Law 480 (PL 480) agreements to acquire low-quality wheat at market prices. Globally, agriculture is the fundamental industry for feeding humanity. In 1960, American scientist Norman Borlaug made groundbreaking contributions to farming, introducing concepts like the use of high yielding varieties (HYV), fertilizers, and pesticides. He developed short-straw, high-yielding wheat varieties from the Japanese Norin 10 and the Mexican PV 18 local variety. Recognizing the efficiency of this technology, Indian Farming 74 (03): 48-51; March 2024 Dr. M. S. Swaminathan endorsed it to meet India’s agricultural needs. In 1965, India faced a war crisis with a neighbouring country, coupled with international pressure and restricted sanctions threatening to halt supplies under PL 480. In this challenging situation, India’s strong political leadership rallied the nation with the slogan “Jai Jawan, Jai Kisan,” marking the inception of the real Indian Green Revolution. Green revolution Under the guidance of the Indian Council of Agricultural Research and Dr. M. S. Swaminathan, the Government of India initiated efforts to develop high yielding varieties, encouraged use of fertilizer, introduced pesticides, promoted mechanization, and enhanced irrigation facilites. A scientist from Punjab, Mr. Athwal, identified a variety named Kalyan, and ICAR combined it with another variety called Sona, which resulted in the high-performing Kalyan-Sona. The Indian government extended subsidies on various facets was crucial for the Green Revolution. The positive outcomes were notable, with crop yields soaring to 131 million metric tonnes in 1978.