 (d) Population data: Give classified population data of the district in terms of (as per 2011 Census) (i) Rural and Urban population (ii) Farming/Non-Farming population (iii) Total population of the district (iv) Large farmers/Smaller farmers/Marginal farmers/Hilly farmers (v) Literacy rate for the district as a whole, for rural and urban population, for males and females etc. (vi) Population of Scheduled Caste, Scheduled Tribes in the district and their percentage to total population. (e) Main occupations of the people in the district: Give more details about the type of farming, major crops and related facilities available like canals, electricity, tanks, etc. (f) Give a map of the district, indicating the location of the proposed KVK and distance from district headquarters in kms. APPENDIX I 132 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK (g) Experience of the host institution in relation to farmers’ training. (Give full details of existing training unit/centre, if any). 6. Details of the proposed KVK - Technical Programme (a) Need for the KVK. (b) Main Agricultural problems of the district. (c) Specific training needs of the farmers. (d) Identify specific training courses in the field of agriculture including livestock production based on the felt needs of the farmers at least for the first year. (e) Indicate the plan of work for the training courses referred to at (d) above. (f) Facilities, which can be made available by the host institution exclusively for the proposed KVK – land, buildings, equipment, vehicles, staff etc. 7. Facilities: (Give details of facilities required for the scheme): (a) (i) Land available for the establishment of KVK in ha. (ii) Ownership of land. (Documentary evidence to be attached) (b) Facilities, which can be shared by the proposed KVK with the host institution (free of charge). (i) List of equipment and apparatus (ii) Number of livestock (iii) Farms/dairy unit/poultry unit/piggery etc. (iv) Main building, classroom, hostel etc. (v) Laboratory and Office facilities etc. (c) Specific facilities required for the proposed KVK in terms of: (i) Staff (ii) Equipments (please attach a list of equipments with approximate cost) 1. Audio-Visual Equipment 2. Agriculture Equipment 3. Dairy Equipment 4. Home Science & Nutrition (iii) Modest buildings (iv) Vehicle etc. 8. Duration of the Scheme: 9. Staff Requirements: 10. Financial Outlay of the Scheme: 11. Abstract Certify that the scale of pay and allowance etc. proposed in the scheme are those admissible to persons of corresponding status employed under the (Name of the host organization) Signature of Head of Institution 133 Appendices (On non-judicial Stamp Paper of Rs.50/-) AGREEMENT AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE INDIAN COUNCIL OF AGRICLTURAL RESEARCH AND THE (Name of the NGO) FOR SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL COOPERATION IN THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE PROJECT OF KRISHI VIGYAN KENDRA AT..................., DISTRICT .......................... IN THE STATE OF ...............