 Office Contingencies: It includes the expenditure on stationery items, postage stamp, rents if any, printing charges, municipal taxes, maintenance of office and lab equipments, telephone bills, electric bills, repairs of furniture, annual contract for security and cleaning of the office/farm, and such other items which are necessary for the efficient functioning of the office. No expenditure should be incurred over and above the sanctioned limit. If the expenditure is incurred over and above the sanctioned limit and other than the sub-heads mentioned above then the ICAR would not 92 Report of the High Power Committee on Management of KVK admit excess expenditure. The negative balance shown under this head will not be considered while scrutinizing the AUC submitted by the KVK. 3.b. POL and repair of vehicle/tractor/two wheelers and equipments: The expenditure on petrol/diesel, oils and lubricants shall be made from this head. In addition, expenditure on repair of the vehicles/tractors/two wheelers/equipments and replacement of their parts may also be incurred from this sub-head. 3.c. Meals/refreshments for trainees: This includes the expenditure on meals/refreshments for the trainees as per prescribed norms from time to time. 3.d. Frontline Demonstrations: The expenditure may include the cost on critical inputs for the demonstration on frontline technologies as approved in the action plan either on the KVK campus under specific training course or on the farmers’ fields. Care should be taken to make reasonable expenditure on the critical inputs only. Critical inputs are those inputs like seeds, planting materials, bio-products, agro-chemicals etc., which have significant effect on the production and which are not being used/followed by the farmers in the village or area. 3.e. On-farm trials/testing: The expenditure on inputs for on farm trials may be made under this head. The expenditure should be restricted to only approved inputs in respect of approved programmes of on-farm trials as indicated in the annual action plan of the KVK. For any new on- farm trials decided in the mid of the year as a consequence of mid-term review, the expenditure may be made only with the prior approval of the Zonal Project Director. 3.f.. Maintenance of buildings: The fund provided under this head may be used for repair and bi-annual white washing of the building infrastructures created from the project fund. The budget made under this head should not be used for repair and upkeep of any other buildings, which are not used for KVK purpose. Savings under this head may also be used for the maintenance of the garden and lawns around these buildings. Apart from the above mentioned items under contingencies, expenditure can be incurred for items approved under BE/RE of the concerned year. B. Non-recurring heads: The non-recurring heads have various sub-heads under which budget allocations may be made in the scheme of KVK.