 Š Š Popularization of Biofloc based nursery rearing technology of Penaeid shrimps for better survival, growth performance, immunity and reduction of production cost is required. Š Š Promotion of Integrated Multi-Tropic Aquaculture (IMTA) as a viable option for climate smart aquaculture and development of resilient stains to combat climate change. 71 FS 6 i Name of the Applicant Society of Fisheries Technologists (India), Matsyapuri, Cochin ii Title National Seminar on Quality and Trade issues of Aquaculture in India iii Venue and Date(s) 23-24 March 2018 at ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Visakhapatnam iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 2.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction no. F.No.23(26 )/2017-Cdn(Tech) vi Recommendations: Š Š Relevant policy intervention is required to address the issues of over-capacity of fishing fleets, marine pollution etc. which are responsible for dwindling marine catches. Š Š Marine fishermen populations have to be made aware of availability of new technological advancements in fishing gears and vessel, diversification of targeted species and to catch high priced species in a sustainable manner to boost export. Š Š Mobile fish product vending carts and matsya mart has to be popularized for supplying quality fish and fish products to the consumers and also attract new fish consumers. Š Š It is very important to create infrastructure for maintaining cold chain facilities from catch to consumption, so that the harvested fish/shrimp meets the quality regulations laid by the national and international regulatory agencies. Š Š Establishment startups for high value products from fishes and utilization of fishery by- products for industrial/pharmaceutical applications will open new vistas for business opportunities in fisheries. FS 7 i Name of the Applicant ICAR-Central Institute of Fisheries Technology, Matsyapuri, Kochi ii Title 11th Indian Fisheries and Aquaculture Forum on Fostering Innovations in Fisheries and Aquaculture: Focus on Sustainability and Safety iii Venue and Date(s) 21-24 November 2017 at ICAR-CIFT, Cochin iv Amount of grant by ICAR Rs. 10.00 Lakh v ICAR's Sanction F. No. and Date F. No. 24(1)/2017-Cdn(Tech) FISHERIES SCIENCE Compendium Salient Recommendations 72 vi Recommendations: Š Š Deep sea fishing to be encouraged with scientific planning by taking into account suitable deep sea vessel designs, quality of catch, marketing and enforcement of laws. Š Š Strategies based remote sensing data on tuna fishing grounds should be popularized and disseminated to minimize searching time and fuel. Š Š In addition to focus on catastrophic diseases, other important limiting diseases like slow growth syndrome, fecal disease and Enter cytozoon Hepatopenaei (EHP) require attention. Š Š There is a need to put dedicated systems in place to ensure the quality and safety of the seafood for consumption. FS 8 i Name of the Society: College of Fisheries, Dr.