 Support under North Eastern Hill Region (NEH) During the year 2021-2022, ICAR through its scheme of Agricultural Education Division also supported the agricultural universities established in NEH Region for infrastructural development and also for new civil works with ₹3058 lakh. Among new civil works, 3 new Computer lab Smart classroom Central Instrumentation Facility Agriculture Education Division Unit Achievement No. of beneficiaries • Training/ Skill development/Capacity building program conducted Number 93 3854 • Demonstrations (FLD/OFTs) conducted Number 2677 2915 • Awareness camp/ Exhibitions /Exposure visits organized Number 8 633 • Input supplied [Planting material, intercrop input (seed, fertilizer), mineral mixture, distribution of masks, etc] - Number: 86234 kg: 17500 4987 • Other (Small farm equipment, Bio-agents, field bunding, backyard poultry, honey bee boxes, agriculture implements, etc) - Chicks: 2200 pic. Feed chick starter (50 kg): 50 bags. Feeder: 4 kg (100 pc) Water drinker: 4 litre (100 pc) 8873 Human Resource Development icar annual report 2022-23 155 student hostels, one for boys and other for girls both in Nagaland and one girls hostel in AAU, Assam; one Agri- business Incubation Centre at Medziphema; and 5 new smart classrooms were developed in various colleges of all the three AUs in NEH region. Laboratories have been modernized/upgraded and equipped with new equipment. Support was also provided for training and capacity building programs, viz. Tutorial and competitive classes, holistic development of students, library strengthening with additional print books, reference books, e-books, ICT tools and accessories and other logistics which has helped in better learning and advanced research. Execution of a major agro- ecotourism project under green initiative is underway. The process of entrepreneurship and skill development of the students was augmented through introduction of new/existing Experiential Learning Units and support for practical in form of contingency and research expenses enabling PG research and smooth conduct of practical’s in both UG and PG degree programmes. Coordination with AUs To provide an opportunity to the Vice-Chancellors of AUs to interact with each other and develop strategy for effective functioning in order to maintain quality standards in higher agricultural education in the country as well as for effective implementation of the newer initiatives, ‘The Conference of Vice Chancellors’ was held during 12-13th April, 2022 and on 1st and 2nd September, 2022. The Nodal Officers meeting was conducted at PJTSAU, Hyderabad, Telangana, on 1st and 2nd July, 2022. All the nodal officers were apprised of the recent steps and new initiatives taken by ICAR. The Education Division has identified various IT solutions and shared with the Universities in order to avail the available online options for the maximum possible components under the scheme.