5-acre FFP demonstration plot for soybean-wheat system) when the soybean crop turned out to be less profitable in and around his village. However, unlike soybean crop, rice is a heavy nutrient exhaustive crop and requires more quantity of nutrients compared to soybean. This demanded more compost to substitute 20-25% fertilizers as per his production and cost-saving strategy. Moreover, after replacing the legume oilseed crop with a cereal crop in the kharif season, yield from the succeeding wheat crop declined in his farmland. This motivated him to think about the application of vermicompost in higher quantities to ensure the availability of plant nutrients in soil for better crop yield and thus, to increase the profitability of the rice-wheat system. This demanded expansion of his composting unit and the farmer equipped himself for the new initiative by attending a one-month skill training program on 'Vermicompost Producer' at ICAR- IISS from 17 February - 18 March 2021. Thereafter, he constructed a composting unit with six permanent pits of single pit size (L ×B × H):10 × 4 × 2 ft (using bricks and cement). With a production capacity of around 1-1.2 tonnes/pit in a composting cycle of 90 days, the permanent pits generated an additional 15-16 tonnes of vermicompost annually. Production cost and compost quality In the initial years of adopting this technology, he used green gram crop as residue for composting. However, after shifting to rice cultivation, Shri Santosh started using rice straw for composting. To accelerate the decomposition of rice straw, he made use of different bio-decomposer products/microbial consortia available in the market as well as those that are produced at ICAR- IISS. Considering all kinds of cost (including family labour) the average production cost of vermicompost while using portable vermibeds is around ` 2,400/pit and that of permanent pit is around ` 3,000/pit. The farmer observed that although permanent compost pits produced more quantity of vermicompost per pit on average, the long composting cycle resulted in similar annual production from both permanent and portable systems, ranging from 3-4 tonnes. This made the annual net income per pit from portable vermibeds higher than that of permanent compost pits even though annual Indian Farming 60 November 2024 gross income was almost equal from both portable and permanent compost pits. Using the permanent as well as portable composting pits, the current annual vermicompost production in his composting unit is approximately 20 tonnes. The quality analysis of the vermicompost produced at Shri Santosh Meena’s composting unit showed that the final product has a pH of 7.2, EC of 1.32 dS/m and C:N ratio of 12:1 with plenty of nutrients such as nitrogen (2.5-3.0%), phosphorus (1.5-2.0%), potassium (1.5-2.0%), calcium (0.53%), magnesium (0.35%), zinc (467 ppm), manganese (250 ppm) and copper (26 ppm).