 of India with the Headquarters at New Delhi. It is a scientific Research & Development organization involved in scientific innovations and technology development in the field of agriculture and allied sciences through its 110 Institutes spread over the entire country. ICAR is served by about 19, 200 employees under four different categories namely Scientific, Technical, Administrative including Finance and Skilled Support Staff. Developing competency of each employee of different category as per National Training Policy - 2012 of GoI is a great challenge for an organization like ICAR. This needs concerted and focused initiatives to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of each employee through various training and capacity building programmes. Training is a pro-active systematic process of educating and developing the organizationís human resource so that they have the desired knowledge, skills, attitude and understanding needed to manage their present and future jobs/roles with enhanced individual and organizational performance (Fig. 1). Training is a very important activity for an organization, be it private or public. It is fruitful to both the employer and the employees of an organization. An employee becomes more efficient and productive if he/she is trained well through proper training and capacity building programmes. Organizations have grown to understand this over the past few decades and have started giving due attention to it, along with the required budgets. With the advent of globalization, technological and information revolution, it has become imperative for the Organizations to have a well-trained staff in order to achieve the Organizational Vision, Mission and Goals. Fig. 1: Training and its benefits 2 HRM INITIATIVES AND ACCOMPLISHMENTS OF ICAR (2014-18) Training is vital for an organization owing to following reasons (DoPT, 2016): ï In the dynamic environment and scenarios, Organizations need to update themselves continuously in order to meet ever-increasing customer demands. Many Organizations which did not change to keep up with the times have perished and turn redundant. The continuous updating requires proper training. ï Technological revolution has led to continuous pressure on the Organizationsí learning capacity. Those who adapt and welcome new technologies emerge as market leaders. Organizations can achieve this through continuous training. ï Todayís world has emerged as a global village and the entire earth has become a small place and no state or country is isolated and escapes from its outcome. Countries are constantly impacted by global economic, sociological and cultural changes and the trends in every aspect of life. The lifestyles are changing and the expectations of the customers/citizens are changing very fast. Hence, in order to meet the ever-increasing demands of the citizens, the Organizations have to continuously train their employees to improve their knowledge, skills and behaviour.