 Observations suggested that plant preparation significantly ameliorated the oxidative stress and rescued the formation of lipid peroxidation (MDA) in oxygen depleted zebrafish. Effect of BPA exposure on reproductive parameters was also studied. BPA exposure attenuated ovarian steroidogenic potential as manifested through dose-dependent decrease in cyp19a1 expression. The study indicated that congruent with significant increase in oxidative stress response, membrane damage and breakdown of hepatic anti-oxidant defence system, BPA exposure, had wide-spread negative influence on gonadal architecture, development of male and female gametes and attenuation of maturational potential in full grown follicles, thereby reducing the number of fertilizable female gametes. Enrichment of Rat BM-MSCs with a number of surface protein markers were explored. The results indicated a high expression of CD29 (99.42%) and CD54 (97.44%) for the isolated female rat BM-MSCs. A normal diploid karyotype with 42 chromosomes and no abnormal changes in chromosome structure was observed by the analysis of 10 metaphase cells. Immuno-fluorescence analysis was done to check the expression of cell surface markers in rat BM-MSCs. The majority of identified proteins were localized in nucleus, cytoplasm and extracellular and were involved in various biological processes having transporter, binding and catalytic activities. CSN1S1 gene was also characterized in Jamunapari goats and its effect on milk composition traits was observed. The goats with AB genotype had highest protein content (3.56%) followed by AA (3.50%), BB (3.26%), BF (3.03%) and AF (2.99%) genotypes. Genetic correlation between protein% and SNF% was moderate and positive. Casein genes were amplified from Beetal cross milk somatic cell, subsequently, cloned for their sequencing. Full length kappa casein encoding gene sequence was obtained from one positive clone. The full-length goat kappa casein gene sequence was submitted to GenBank. Detection of peptide biomarkers and development of synthetic anti-microbial peptide hydrogels for bovine mastitis: The lead antimicrobial peptide (AMP) molecule identified from insect secretions was chemically synthesized and tested for its activity against ESKAPE bacteria to determine the MIC and MBC. Stability at different temperature, in presence of salts and serum, toxicity in Galleria melonella larvae, mammalian cells and haemolytic activity in RBCs of different species were determined in vitro prior to therapeutic Effect of graded levels of BPA exposure (14 days) on ovarian cyp19a1 mRNA expression (left panel) and follicular damage as evident in T.S. of ovary (right panel).