 There is need to provide leadership and coordinated network research with regional KVKs to generate location and variety specific technologies and unveil new avenues for farmers. Development of Kharif chilli production technology in NEH region on the strategies suggested above is likely to improve the productivity and production of chilli. Emerging scenario and future strategies of Kharif onion production Besides other vegetables, onion, potato and tomato are the major vegetable crops in the region. There is a good prospect of cultivation of Kharif onion. The paper has explored the possibility of cultivation of Kharif onion as a substitute crop by replacing paddy with the Kharif onion in the cropping system at CHF, CAU, Pasighat, Arunachal Pradesh. Also, it has been observed that during March-September, the region faced adverse conditions due to heavy rainfall and poor communication Table 1. Agro-climatic characteristics of Northeast Hilly region Zones Altitude (m) Altitude range areas Vegetable crops Alpine zones More than 3500 Arunachal Pradesh: Gorichen, Tawang, Bumla, Sela pass areas of West Kemang District Jidu and adjoining areas of Northern Siang Sikkim: Gnathong, Chhangu, Serrathong, Thangu, Yakthan, ZemaLachen, eegyathathang, Samsinggeling, Cholemu, Lima, Nathula range. Leafy vegetables under protected structures Temperate and sub- temperate zone 1500-3500 Arunachal Pradesh: Tawang, west Kameng District, Dibang Valley, Upper Subansiri district Meghalaya: Upper Shillong, Mawphlang and Mariang of East Khasi hills district Manipur: Mao & Ukhrul and adjoining areas of east district Sikkim: Bordong, Resi, Kangdin, Melli, Param, Lachem, Laichung, Hilley, Yoksum Mizoram: Blue Mountain, Halikhan Nagaland: Tuensang and Zunhoeboto district, Vangkhong area of Wokha district, Higher areas of Mokokchung district Assam: Karbi Anglong, N.C. Hills Tripura: Chittagong Hill, Jampui, Bethliangchhip Potato, cole crops, root crops, s o l a n a c e o u s v e g e t a b l e s , vegetable pea and beans. Sub-Tropical Hill and Plain Zone 200-1500 Arunachal Pradesh: Changyak, naga and Khonsa area of Tirap district, Along in West Siang, Pasighat in East Siang, Seppa in East Kameng Meghalaya: Jowal sub-division of Jaintia Hills, part of Nongstoin sub-division, Nokret and Kailash area of west Garo Hills and Western part of east Garo Hills Sikkim: Namchi, Gayzing, Rongli, Mangan, Chanthang, Uttre, Gangtok Mizoram: Whole state except lower valley of Northern and Western parts and area adjoining Chachar district and lower parts of chhimtuipuii district Nagaland: Medziphema, Southern part of Dimapur subdivision, etc. Manipur: Imphal Valley Assam: Barak Valley Zone, Lower Brahmaputra Valley Zone, Upper Brahmaputra Valley Zone, Central Brahmaputra Valley Zone Tripura: Agartala and adjoining areas.