 Ms Rekha Singh C/o Shri Jitendra Singh Scientist, ZARS Kumharawand Farm, Jagdalpur, Bastar (Chhattisgarh) 494 005  10. Landa: It is also an alcoholic beverage. Kutki and ragi husk are takenin equal proportions. After fermenting distillation is done. Keywords: bobo, boda amat, rice amat, red ant chutney, madia pej, pej, maize gruel, ksa pani, sulfee, landa 2752 Preparation of jhol This ethnic food dish is very famous for its taste and nutritive status. This dish is prepared in every house in Mandi district of Himachal Pradesh. This dish is supposed to improve the digestion. Jhol is prepared from whey (lassi). Lassi is first boiled in a container. Coarsly crushed rice or maize is added to it. Boiling is continued till it gets properly cooked. Finally chilli and salt are added according to taste. This dish is served with saag (made of sarson) and maize rotis. This jhol is prepared throughout the hilly area of Mandi, Hamirpur and Bilaspur districts of Himachal Pradesh since time immemorial. Keywords: jhol, lassi, maize, rice Shri Yash Paul Gopalpur, Sarkaghat, Mandi (Himachal Pradesh) 171005 2753 Consumption of tapioca (Manihot esculenta) and sweet potato (Ipomoea batatas) during scarcity of food To meet the daily requirement of food, the scheduled tribe people consume this cheaply available food during scarcity period. These foods are abundant in forest and hilly areas. Tapioca roots are sometimes eaten raw. Freshly harvested or soaked roots are boiled for 15-20 minutes, peeled and eaten with salt and sugar. For domestic consumption it is used in preparation of curry. The tuber contains starch and can be stored for several weeks in a cool dry place. Sweet potato is also an important tuber crop like tapioca. It is also eaten raw and also by boiling for 15-20 minutes in water. Also the raw tubers are baked and roasted in fire for a few minutes until brown colour is obtained, and eaten after peeling. For domestic consumption it can also be used in curry or in preparation of chutney. As both the fooditems possess large quantity of starch, least amount of protein and fat and little amount of vitamins and minerals, the crops are considered poor- quality food. The roots of tapioca, if kept un- harvested for more than a year Dr Saswati Parichha Training Associate (Home Science), KVK Bhanjanagar, Ganjam, Bhubaneswar (Orissa) 761 126  contains a poisonous substance. It is present in the outer peels of the root which is normally peeled off while cooking. The poisonous substance is bitter in taste and can be easily known. It is, therefore, ot eaten raw. More than 80% families of Jayamangala village in Ganjam district of Orissa are using these food items since 20 years. Keywords: tapioca, sweet potato, scarcity of food, roots and tuber 2757 Preparation of boonthu ki bhazi from mushroom Boonthi is a wild edible, tuber species of mushroom. It is cultivated for domestic purposes. The bhazi is prepared by cutting and roasting it. It is very delicious mushroom.