 Artificial intelligence-based apple identification protocols are being developed to identify and detect apples in a real-world complex environment under different conditions of natural lighting. The developed models will be integrated into the robotic system for guiding robots to mechanically harvest apples. Ragi thresher-cum-pearler: This thresher is operated by a pair of bullocks in rotary mode. It can also be operated by a 1.0 hp electric motor. The average speed of rotation of the thresher and oscillating shafts were found to be 525 rpm and 422 rpm, respectively at bullock speed of 1.84 km/h. The average output of the thresher was 90.4 kg/h with a feed rate of 120.5 kg/h. The threshing and cleaning efficiencies were 92.18% and 92.40%, respectively. The thresher has been granted, Indian patent No.: 409589. The cost of operation was ₹0.33/ kg as compared to ₹5/kg in conventional method. MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 112 Technology is adopted in the collaboration with Odisha Livelihood Mission, Odisha and around 979 threshers have been sold and supplied in 17 districts through Odisha Millet mission. Vermi-composting unit for North-East hill region: Vermi-composting unit was developed for farm waste utilization at high altitude. A plastic based vermi- composting polyhouse unit of size 12 × 14 × 8.6 feet (W × L × H) was fabricated with CPVC pipes (40 mm and 25 mm diameter), GI anchoring pegs (32 mm diameter), CPVC pipe snap clamps (40 mm, 32 mm and 25 mm), CPVC pipe fittings with modifications and 5 layer UV stabilized polyethylene sheet (thickness 200 micron). The fabricated structure was pitched for keeping two- tier HDPE vermi-beds (size 3.6 m × 1.2 m × 0.6 m each; total 4 beds) for composting of farmyard waste into vermi-compost at high altitude cold climate. top portion as well as distance between iron rods were standardized to hold the bhusa. In this feeder, bhusa doesn’t fall in feeding tray fully by itself like in two sided feeders. However, Bhusa will fall in the feeding channel. The plastic-based hanging type feeders is suited for the field conditions where there is space constraint. It can be hanged in one side of the shelter; adequate space can be saved in already overcrowded shelter. It is portable, can Vermi-composting Polyhouse Unit Solar PV-operated ice cream hand cart for street vendor A mobile hand cart (Thela) with ice cream box (100 L capacity) operated with solar Photo-Voltaic (PV) based refrigeration system has been developed for ice cream vendors. The developed four-wheel cart consists of three panels with a rated power of 165 W each connected in parallel, a charge controller of capacity 675 VA and two batteries of 12 V, 100 Ah rated capacity. During preliminary testing under on-load condition, a fully charged battery provides the backup period for about 16 h, and is able to maintain average temperature of -18oC.