 One of the clusters identified in the analysis is “sustainable agriculture,” represented by the red color in Fig. 7. This cluster comprises nine sub-topics: food security, irrigation, sustainability, water resources, biodiversity, climate resilience, dryland agriculture, the green revolution, and water scarcity. The sub-topics within this cluster address various aspects of sustainable agriculture, such as enhancing food security, managing water resources, preserving biodiversity, and adapting to CC. The statistical information about this cluster is presented in Table 6. Most articles in this cluster underscore the importance of sustainable agriculture practices in mitigating the impacts of CC [31,32] and promoting food security. Some of the initial articles focus on the importance of climate-smart agriculture and its potential to provide farmers with advanced weather information, knowledge about resilient technology and practices, and the means to use these technologies. These articles emphasize the need for effective resource management to ensure sustainable agriculture [33,34]. They also explore the potential of solar and wind energy sources in reducing carbon emissions and increasing resilience in the agricultural sector [35]. Other articles in the collection examine specific issues related to sustainable agriculture, such as the challenges faced by marginalized farmers [36] and the use of technology to control agronomic variables in crop production [37]. They also highlight the importance of collaboration and the use of innovative technologies, such as nanotechnology [38] and ICTs [39], in building resilience and promoting sustainable agriculture practices. Some articles even underline the need to diversify crop production to include CC Fig. 6. Distribution of CCRASAI research by zone. B. Baraj et al. Heliyon 10 (2024) e29586 9 resilient crops like millets and sorghum. Lastly, the articles address the impact of agriculture-emitted black carbon on CC and the need for policies that consider nutrition, climate, and the environment in addition to maximizing production [40]. 3.8.1. Food security The loss of agricultural production due to CC is a serious concern due to the need for increased food quantity to feed the growing population. A study predicts a potential food shortage in India by 2030 due to the negative impact of CC [37,41]. Sustainability and resilience in production, processing, and trading of agricultural items are crucial to minimize greenhouse gas emissions [42]. The rise of greenhouse gas in the atmosphere might reduce the nutritional value of crops, which could detrimentally affect the nutritional status of human beings [43]. Therefore, adverse impacts of CC can lead to temporary food shortages among farming households [17,44]. The CC-induced crop loss or intensification of crop and livestock can influence food availability [45].