 Thus, there is limited information available on the SOC stocks, soil aggregation, aggregate-associated C and SOC pools under different land uses in an Alfisol of tropics, when forest land was converted to arable systems (rice-wheat, rice-vegetables and maize- wheat). Hence, the objectives of this study were: (i) to assess forest land to arable land conversion impacts on soil aggregation, aggregate- associated C and organic carbon pools under different depth layers in an Alfisol and (ii) to investigate the impacts of above-said parameters in rice-based versus non-rice-based cropping systems. 2. Materials and methods 2.1. Site characterization The sampling was conducted in April 2019 at Birsa Agricultural University, Ranchi, Jharkhand campus and its surrounding area. The soil in this area is Alfisol and the climate type is subtropical. The land uses description and the physico-chemical properties are presented in Table 1. The pictures of the land uses of the acid soil are given in Sup­ porting Information SI: Plate 1. 2.2. Chemical analysis and statistical analysis In April 2019, soil samples were collected from three different native land uses and three different cropping systems from three soil depth layers, i.e., 0–15, 15–30 and 30–45 cm. For each land use, soil samples were collected from six locations. Three soil samples were collected from each locations and these were bulked. Then the samples were air dried and sieved to pass through an 8-mm sieve. The processed samples were kept and ground in wooden mortar and pestle and passed through a 0.25 mm sieve for analysing total SOC and its pools. For analysis of the bio­ logical parameters, field moist samples were kept in − 20◦C till further analysis. Soil microbial biomass carbon was analysed through Chloroform-fumigation extraction (CFE) method (Diaz-Ravi˜na et al., 1992). Third part of the processed samples were passed through an 8-mm sieve and that was used for aggregate separation. Then the pro­ cessed samples were used for analysis of different chemical and physical properties. Determination procedures of initial soil properties can be found in Supporting Information (SI: Methods 1). The water stability of aggregates was determined by the wet sieving method (Cambardella and Elliott, 1993). Different fractions were divided as the large macroaggregates (>2000 µm) and small macroag­ gregates (250–2000 µm) which were combined to obtain macroaggre­ gates (>250 µm). Microaggregates (53–250 µm) and silt+clay (<53 µm) were also separated. Water stable aggregates (WSA) was calculated ac­ cording to USDA (1998) using the formula: WSA (% of soil) = [(weight of dry aggregates – sand) / (weight of dry soil – sand)]*100 Mean weight diameter (MWD) was calculated from the following equation (van Bavel, 1949): MWD = ∑Xi*Wi Where Xi was the mean diameter (mm) of the soil aggregate size frac­ tions and Wi was the proportion of each aggregate size with respect to the total sample weight.