 For the success of the partnership with Public Institutions and Private Organizations, identifying the strengths of the partner and the areas of complementarities are very important. With partnership between public and private sectors, the strengths of both the sectors are leveraged. On one hand, public sector has highly skilled and efficient manpower in agriculture and on the other hand, private sector has excellent managerial resources. Private extension would improve commercialization of technology and make it available at the global level. The decentralized decision-making in private sector helps in reducing time for commercialization. Key words: Piggery, Pork Processing, Zero cost farming Indian Farming 70(01): 40–42; January 2020 T HE SUCCESS story of a start- up entrepreneur who collaborated with ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig, Guwahati through PPP mode has been described here. Technology commercialization in the context of piggery and pork processing would encompass whole range of issues and activities, from stage of need identification, development of appropriate technology, demonstration, creating demand and rolling out package for wider adoption on commercial terms. The technologies may either be low cost or high cost, simple or complex, but they should be suitable for adoption on a wider scale. With rapid changes in the food habits of the people after globalization and developments in pork processing technologies and evolving export standards for pork and pork products, investments in commercial piggery and pork processing sector are bound to increase. This increase would mean different areas where public participation would be needed; some of them are as follows: new pig breed development, development of value added pork products, pork product safety, residue studies, product composition etc. Rationale and implementation strategy The North East of India is synonymous with beautiful landscapes and exotic food habits. The region and its indigenous tribes cherish their livestock for celebrations and family events. Although having the largest population of pigs in the country as a region, the pi g and pork trades are completely unorganized. Large size pig farms are non-existent, medium farms are rare, value addition and scientific meat processing was unheard of. Consumers mostly buy fresh pork and value added pork products are not yet popular in the region. Over Indian Farming January 2020 41 two million pigs were annually consumed and the only value addition happening across the region is in the form of smoking and pickling done in rudimentary conditions. The R&D Pork Processing Plant at ICAR-National Research Centre on Pig, with state-of the-art facilities, is equipped with all essential machineries required for hygienic pig slaughter and processing of value added pork products.