 In terms of food grain production, the state has achieved self-sufficiency. Only 48% of the Dakshin Dinaj­ pur district’s (West Bengal, India) geographic area is inside the research area. Because this district lacks an industrial sector, its economy is pri­ marily agrarian. The overall quantity of land in the Gangrampur subdivision is not completely fertile; just a small portion is naturally acidic. Because of this, farming is much more expensive there. Another hand, this area is vulnerable to flooding or inundation in considerable portions. The fact that 80 per cent of the land is fragmented and belongs to marginal landholding categories is a major impediment to the implementation of an enhanced and mechanised farming system (Sarkar et al., 2021). To handle the difficulties of maintaining an expanding population, sustaining agriculture, and preserving the environment, it is vital to estimate the agricultural Land Capability to make long-term improvements as the Gangarampur Subdivision of Dakshin Dinajpur is significantly harming agricultural efficiencies due to insufficient soil nutrients (Halder et al., 2020). The cognitive goal of the present study is to estimate the efficiency of applied models and the utilitarian goal is to uncover the potentially suitable sites for agriculture in the Gangarampur subdivision. 2. Description of the study area The Gangarampur Subdivision (Fig. 1) is located in the mid-eastern portion of West Bengal. Agricultural significance is enormous in the study area. Gangarampur Subdivision has historically been a major producer of paddy, wheat, pulses, and vegetables such as potatoes, on­ ions, and green vegetables. Farmers were encouraged to produce cash crops or crops that allowed them to make more money. The importance of market-oriented crops has had a significant impact on grain produc­ tion. Massive urban demand has resulted in significant growth in the production of green vegetables and seasonal fruits. In the last few de­ cades, there have been more reports of changes in agricultural output in areas near rail lines or the National Highway. However, agricultural crop production is still important in the interior. The geographical extension of the study area is a range between 25◦17′04′′ North to 25◦36′12′′ North and 88◦10′05′′ East to 88◦42′01′′ East with an elevation of 28–32 m above Mean Sea Level (Fig. 1). The district is bounded by Bangladesh on the north, the district of Malda on the south, the Balurghat Subdivision on the east, and the Raiganj Sub­ division on the west. The study area spans a total of 104,790 ha of geographical area. 3. Database and adopted methods 3.1. Data sources About 95 articles, 2 theses, and several government reports are reviewed for accurate research. The articles are reviewed based on their originality in methods.