 The micronutrient deficiency of paddy can be managed during rainy season, by spraying 5 gram of paddy sampoorna in one litre of water. Apply fertilizers in transplanted crop. Apply full doze of P, half the dose of N and half dose of Potash ie. 90 kg Factomphos and 14.4 kg Potash/ acre as a basal dose. Pest Š Š Rice case worm:- There is a chance of rice case worm in paddy field. To control this 25 kg sawdust or rice husk ash mixed with one litre kerosene (for 1 acre) can be spread after draining the field. Š Š Leaf folder:- There is a chance of Leaf folder attack in Mundakan Paddy during rabiseason. It can be controlled by using Trichogramma cards (2CC per one acre). Cut the cards in to small pieces and fix in different regions of the field. If the attack is severe, spray quinalphos @ 2ml per one liter of water. Š Š Army worm:-To control, complete flooding of field for 24 hours, wherever possible. Spraying of chlorantraniliprole @ 3 ml per ten litre of water in the field, bunds and weeds. In the fields, where transplanting is not yet undertaken, application of chlorantraniliprole granules @ 4 kg per one acre along with basal dose of fertilizers. Keep the field bunds and surroundings weed free. Š Š Brown Plant Hopper (BPH):- There is a chance of Brown plant hopper attack in rice. Spray 2 g Thiamethoxam per ten litre of water. ICAR agro-advisory for KHARIF 2022 185 Disease Š Š Bacterial Leaf blight:- In case of flash floods incidence of bacterial leaf blight may occur. To control the spread of Bacterial Leaf blight in paddy, spray 6 g of Streptocycline in 30 litre of water immediately after receding flood water from the field. Š Š Sheath Blight:-To control sheath blight disease in rice, spray 4 gram Trifloxystrobin +Tebuconazole in ten litre of water. Homestead gardens Drought management in homesteads should be undertaken through husk burial in trenches, mulch with dried coconut leaves, sow cowpea or green manure crops on receipt of pre monsoon showers in coconut basins. Manage the micro climate with intercrops like tubers, vegetables, perennial vegetables, medicinal plants, spices and banana to make each homestead as nutritional garden. Coconut Ensure proper drainage and water conservation measures in coconut gardens. In all gardens where sufficient sunlight are receiving intercropping can be done with arecanut, black pepper banana, pineapple tubers ,ginger, turmeric and medicinal plants Provide shade to the young palms. Planting of new coconut seedlings can be taken up, apply 1 kg lime and one week later, apply 25 kg organic manure and recommended dose of nutrients. Pest Š Š Rhinoceros beetle: As a prophylactic measure the grubs of Rhinocerous beetle can be controlled in cowdung pits using Metarhizium anisipliae @ 250 g per 750 ml of water per Cubic meter pit. The bio control agent should be sprinkled over the cowdung pits as well as on sides at three months interval to manage the pest. In case of severe attack applying 20 g Fipronil 0.