 Crowdsourcing varietal evaluation using farmers’ network and looping in farmers as ‘citizen scientists’ is a new concept. The programme aims at mobilizing a very large group of farmers in a short time. The integration of IT tools with mobile technology, using Android devices and uploading the data directly from the farmers’ field to the Open Data Kit (ODK) Aggregate server. Varietal evaluation linked to climate change and using genetic diversity as a tool to buffer abiotic stresses is another novel approach in this project. Community Seed Banks Bioversity works towards establishment of Community Seed Banks (CSBs) to conserve existing crop diversity in a region, supply seeds of traditional varieties not available in the formal seed systems, timely and affordable availability of seeds of improved crop varieties. Community Seed Banks are using ‘Dry Store’ storage technique by using absorbent desiccants to dry the seeds prior to storage to a very low moisture content and use of moisture proof containers to store the seeds. This technique protects against insects/ fungi damage as well as seed deterioration since low levels of moisture slows down seed deterioration. In this aspect, Training of farmers at KVK Majhgawan (Satna) on Community Seed Bank Management ICAR-CGIAR Agricultural Cooperation 14 Bioversity International with collaboration with 3 KVKs, had set up 11 community seed banks in April 2016. Capacity building of farmers and scientists on these new techniques are happening continuously and to mention a few, training workshop on the use of desiccants for seed storage in Community Seed Banks (Dec 2014), and the International workshop on Community Seed Banks and Farmers’ Rights (November 2015) which had 30 participants from 18 countries. For this purpose a model Community Seed bank in Delhi was set up for training purposes. Gene banks traditionally keep seeds under low temperatures to prolong their shelf life but this is expensive to run, and can be unreliable when power supplies are uncertain. In community seed banks, dry-storage method is used which offers a cheaper and more reliable alternative. The most serious threat to seed longevity is the high seed moisture content. This innovative solution entailing the use of desiccants (zeolite beads) to dry the seeds and use of airtight drums or polyethylene bottles for storage has been introduced by Bioversity International. There is in-depth research supporting the use of this technology and the importance of desiccated storage. The use of zeolite beads in seed drying enhances seed longevity. Since it is easy to use, it can be deployed in remote villages where power and other inputs are not easily available.