 I am hopeful that this document will benefit the staff of gaushala personnel in better management of cows and its sincere adoption by them will help addressing the important area of Animal Welfare. (H. Rahman) v Cattle population of India, the second largest in the world,represent 37.28% of total livestock wealth of India. In India cattle is a religious as well as predominant farm livestock species. Owing to religious sentiments of Indian people, slaughter of cows and its progenies is banned in majority of states of India by Law. In such circumstances large number of cows, especially those who are aged, sick, disabled and non-productive, are sheltered in gaushalas. Presently more than 5,100 registered gaushalas are functioning in the country. Scientific management of cows at gaushalas is hardly followed, therefore, it is imperative to develop minimum protocols on different aspects of cattle management for the personnel managing the gaushalas. Such protocol would help in keeping cows healthy and hearty. Keeping above in view, a manual on management of gaushalas was prepared by the Indian Council of Agricultural Research with the help of National Dairy Research Institute and Indian Veterinary Research Institute. The manual provides protocols on housing, feeding, breeding and health management at gaushalas along with emergency preparedness and emergency management. We thank the Directors and Scientists of theses institutes for timely transmission of information required to prepare this manual. We are also grateful to the Director General, ICAR and Secretary DARE and Deputy Director General (AS), ICAR for their constant inspiration and encouragement for preparing this manual. We hope and trust that this manual would help in sustainable and scientific management of cows and its progenies reared at different gaushalas in India. Editors From the Editor’s Desk  CONTENTS Sl. No. Page No. 1. Minimum infrastructure required for gaushalas of three herd size (100, 500 and 1,000 animals) 1-8 2. Identification and record keeping of animals 9-16 3. Segregation and isolation of animals 17-18 4. Feeding of different types of animals (infant, infirm, pregnant, retired etc.) 19-22 5. Veterinary care of animals including vaccination 23-30 6. Maintaining hygiene of animals as well as the gaushala and disposal of waste 31-34 7. Special needs for disabled infirm animals 35-36 8. Emergency preparedness and emergency management/ handling 37-38 9. Staffing requirement, recruitment and training of staff 39-40  1 Specification to include minimum space per animal for covered shelter, movement etc. Housing systems Housing system commonly in use for sheltering cows in India, is of two types: loose housing and the conventional closed housing system.