 The results of the Treatment of mastitis and metritis using mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) in cattle: Mastitis and metritis in dairy cattle and buffaloes reduce milk yield and fertility leading to immense economic losses. This study aimed at treating these diseases in cattle by treatment with MSCs. MSCs isolated from the adipose tissue of a cow were characterized by confirming the expression of specific markers, viz. alkaline phosphatase, CD73, CD90 and CD105 and absence of CD34, CD45 and CD79a. MSCs were injected through local and intravenous routes. All the animals were cured completely demonstrating the potential of MSCs for treatment of mastitis and metritis in cattle. (a) Before treatment of mastitis with MSCs; (b) 60 days after treatment with MSCs a b Day “0” Day “7” Anti-tick herbal acaricide: To protect crossbred animals from multi-acaricide including Ivermectin resistant tick infestations, three safe, stable and characterized flowable and natural cream formulations were developed. The efficacy of anti-tick natural formulations was validated at field level and more than 80% efficacy was reported. Surgical interventions • Intra-lesional administration of allogenic BMSCs is effective in managing neural deficits associated with non-deviating spinal cord injury in canine patients. • Hip denervation and intra-articular infiltration of stromal vascular fraction and platelet rich plasma improved gait, facilitated early return to weight bearing, reduced pain on hind limb extension and improved ability to jump in cases of hip dysplasia in dogs. • Two designs of hybrid external skeletal fixation systems for use in tibia of large ruminants were developed, tested and submitted for design registration. Diagnostic services Human samples testing for COVID-19 and genetic characterization of SARS-CoV-2 virus: As national emergency response, NIHSAD has been regularly testing samples collected by the State Health Department from different districts of Madhya Pradesh and providing timely results for SARS CoV-2 by RT-qPCR. Whole genome sequencing of SARS-CoV-2 was done for 9 clinical samples, sequences were submitted to GISAID database. Based on the GISAID phylogeny, 7 sequences belonged to Clade G (Clade B.1) while 2 sequences belonged to Clade O (Clade B. 6). Avian influenza: A total of 14,944 samples (13,152 morbid materials and 1,792 sera) from various States/ Union Territories of the country were tested as part of avian influenza virus surveillance. These included random samples (12,927), emergency samples (198) and POSP samples (1,819). Out of 198 emergency samples, 49 samples from seven states tested positive for H5N1 notifiable AIV. During screening of 12,927 routine samples (including live bird markets), 20 H9N2 viruses were isolated from Chhattisgarh (16) and Madhya Pradesh (4). Six serum samples were tested LIVESTOCK MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2020 81 positive for H9 AIV antibodies from Chhattisgarh, Kerala and Madhya Pradesh.