 Hence, it should be applied through drip irrigation (two drippers per plant and dripper capacity 8 liters per hour) @ one hour weekly, twice a week during the winter and summer seasons, respectively, and as when as requirement by plants during the rainy season until two years old plantation. When the orchard age is increased simultaneously, the water requirement also increases to 50–60 liters per day for a fully grown and fruiting plant during the summer. Fruiting load on 7 years old plant Continued from Cover II Daisy: A high-yielding... Indian Horticulture 8 Nutrient management Manure and fertilizers should be applied twice a year, as a basal dose (mid-December to mid-January) and a split dose (mid-July to August). Entire sheep manure @ 40–45 kg, phosphorus @ 500 g and micronutrients (Fe, Zn, Bo, Cu, Mn and Mo) @ 100-150g per tree should be applied as basal doses after training and pruning during January in full-grown trees. Nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium fertilizers should be applied at the rates of N-800 g, P-500 g, and K-500 g per tree, respectively, in two split parts as before flowering (February) and during fruit growth period (July-August). In addition, micronutrients should be applied after fruit setting and fruit growth period or whenever any micronutrients deficiency symptom is observed on plant. Training and pruning Training is an essential operation for developing desired canopy shape, and it is better to train trees in bushy dome shapes during July–August and December– January in the initial 3-4 years. Further, light pruning is only suggested for water sprouts, root suckers, dead or infected branches, and undesired hanging or crotched shoots because excessive pruning may lead to orchard decline. Copper-based fungicides (COC/Blue copper/ Bordeaux mixture) @ 10% for pasting and 1% for spraying must be required after pruning to avoid any fungal infestations. Flowering and fruit setting Flowering starts from the third week of February and continue till mid-March. Fruiting should be retained on a third-year-old plantation because three-year-old plants are able to produce 25–40 kg fruit. It is suggested to the farmers to avoid irrigation during initial flowering and fruit setting period, and thereafter, irrigation water should be given in minimum quantity just for maintaining moisture in the initial 15 days after fruit setting, and later on, keep a frequent irrigation schedule as per plant requirements based on age and season. Harvesting and yield Fruits are ready to harvest when they develop deep saffron orange peel colour in November (250–275 days after fruit set). Individual fruit should be harvested along with one leaf, washed, and graded for better pricing in the market. The plant produces 110–140 kg of fruit per plant from the 7th year old plantation. Plant protection Sunscald – It was observed when the outer and southern parts of the canopy exposed fruits to direct heat in the months of September and October.