 Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2790 Cultivation of local sorghum (red) variety on high slopy lands Traditional cultivation of Red sorghum- Erect head species 2791 Pajonna sorghum 2792 Telia Malle Jonna sorghum dried leaves are required to give smoke in 1 acre land. Keywords: custard apple, Vitex nugundo, earthen pot, burrows In Ihadol, settlement pattern is on hills or along the slope of hills. Tribal people are following the tradition of their forefathers in cultivation of red sorghum of dwarf nature having erect heads. Locally there are two species of red sorghum. One is of dwarf nature that bears erect heads, the second one grows tall and its heads are little bigger and bent downward. Just after rainfall it is broadcast @ 10 kg seed/ acre, and the field is slightly ploughed and planked. It requires less care and checks soil erosion. Birds do not damage it. Those who cannot afford to purchase maize and other grains prefer to consume such low-priced grain. It is good for pop preparation and is also palatable for animals. Keywords: dwarf red sorghum, erect heads, pop, palatable Pajonna variety of sorghum is grown in black and gravelly red soils with low rainfall. It gives a grain yield of 1.7-2 tonnes/ha and 1,800-2,000 bundles of fodder. The grain can be used as a diet for pregnant women and fodder for animals. Key words: Pajonna, sorghum, grain, fodder Telia Malle Jonna variety of sorghum is grown in red and black soils of northern Telangana zone of Andhra Pradesh, which mature within 120 days. It produces 1.2 tonnes/ha of grain and 1,800- 2,000 bundles of fodder per hectare. The grains of this variety do not germinate even if this Shri Nattuji, S/o Shri Phoola Mema Bari, Makarade, Jhadol (Rajasthan) Traditional cultivation of Red Sorghum- Downward bent head species Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Medak district (Andhra Pradesh) Deccan Development Society, Pasthapur, Zaheerabad (M), Dist. Medak (Andhra Pradesh) Content INDIGENOUS TECHNICAL KNOWLEDGE IN AGRICULTURE Code No. Title of the ITK Description of the ITK Name and address of the discloser/facilitator 2793 Cultivation of sorghum Erra Jonna (red) 2794 Cultivation of sorghum Rabi Erra Jonna (red) 2795 Cultivation of sorghum Pyalala Jonna (sweet variety) 2796 Traditional cultivation of kangani crop is exposed to wet spells of rainfall during the maturity time. Since its ear has the characteristic of loose spiklets, the grain is stored for longer period by mixing with neem and ash. Keywords: Telia Malle Jonna, fodder, neem It is suitable for red chalka and black soils in Medak and other districts of Telangana region of Andhra Pradesh. It comes to maturity in 120 days. It can give 1.2 tonnes grain and 2,000 bundles of fodder per hectare. The grain is good as a diet for pregnant ladies. The seeds are stored with neem leaves and ash in earthen pots, sealed on the top with mud plaster.