 The concept of the IARI designed Zero Energy ● Agro Processing Centres developed for 5 states under AICRP on PHT ● An evaporatively cooled hut type structure for oranges and potato developed at PKV, Akola Centre of AICRP on PHT ● Green chickpea shelling machine developed at JNKVV, Jabalpur Centre of AICRP on PHT ● A fluidized bed drier for mushroom developed at TNAU, Coimbatore Centre of AICRP on PHT ● A drier of 3,000 coconuts/batch capacity developed at CPCRI, Kasaragod Centre of AICRP on PHT ● A machine for production of snowball from tender coconuts developed at CPCRI, Kasaragod Centre of AICRP on PHT ● A power-operated mechanical seed extractor for pomegranate developed at MPKV, Rahuri ● A demand feeder designed at CIFA, Bhubaneshwar. ● Aqua filter system designed at CIFA, Bhubaneshwar to function as external biofilter DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2001–2002 138 Cool Chamber was used here to develop a structure of much larger capacity for use by the farmers and traders. The structure has a capacity of 1.5-2.0 tonnes, costs about Rs 15,000 and helps reducing temperature and increasing humidity for enhanced shelf-life through evaporative cooling and humidification. Evaporatively Cooled Room for On-farm Pre-cooling and Storage of Fruits and Vegetables Evaporatively cooled (EC) room (3 × 3 × 3 m) of about 2 tonnes capacity has been constructed at CIPHET, Ludhiana for on-farm storage of fruits and vegetables. It is double-walled 11.3 cm thick each of bricks with an 11.3 cm sand filled in between. Its floor is made of cement concrete, and the roof is of reinforced brick concrete. At the top of sand fill, just below the roof, a drip irrigation pipe is laid out all around and connected to an overhead PVC water tank. The water keeps dripping over sand, which, in turn, keeps the outer and inner walls wet. While evaporation from outer wall keeps the room cool, the indoor wall keeps high humidity due to evaporation. An air inlet at door bottom and air outlet at roof provides conditions for natural ventilation to minimize possible development of microbes on stored produce. The EC room costs about Rs 35,000. During preliminary trials in early January and late February kinnows, cauliflower and tomatoes were stored. Small-scale trials were conducted for a load varying from about 100 to 200 kg fruits/vegetables kept in stackable plastic trays. Trials showed a definite advantage for enhancing shelf-life of these fruits and vegetables mainly due to maintenance of high (<85%) relative humidity (RH) throughout the day inside the EC room. Compared on the basis of 10% physiological loss in weight, the shelf- life inside the EC room was 34 days for early kinnows, 23 days for late kinnows, 11 days for cauliflower and 19 days for tomatoes. It was 21, 11, 3 and 7 days, respectively for these fruits/vegetables stored in an ordinary room at the same time.