 In order to ensure quality of agricultural education and manpower development, the following initiatives were undertaken: accreditation of 16 SAUs and 3 deemed-to- be universities (DUs), completion of revision of PG curricula and syllabi, publication of accreditation-related information, provision of admission to foreign nationals in the ICAR DUs and SAUs, organization of 82 Summer/Winter Schools and Short Courses, conducting examination to provide opportunity to meritorious students for seeking education in an institution of their choice, preparation of perspective plan to strengthen agricultural education and human resource development, and awarding 201 senior research fellowships, 470 junior research fellowships and 230 national talent scholarships. Under Social Sciences and Policies, progress of watershed programmes launched in rainfed areas to improve conditions of rural poor was studied. With watershed management, water run-off rate was reduced by 34%, and groundwater recharge increased by 64%. OVERVIEW 7 03-004-01.p65\7\(28.02.03\06.03.03) Investment in agriculture must grow at 7.91% per annum to realize the target growth in agriculture. A study under the National Centre for Agricultural Economics and Policy (NCAP) Outreach Programme revealed that diversification in agriculture is necessary to improve farmers’ conditions in the western Uttar Pradesh. A method has been developed for the estimation of crop yield at the block level. Area of potato and ginger and their yields were estimated in north-eastern states. A methodology has been developed for forecasting fish production from ponds. The Agricultural Technology Information Centres (ATICs) of the ICAR institutes/SAUs are providing ‘Single Window’ delivery system for technology products, diagnostic technology services and information available in the institutes to the farmers. Under Technology Assessment, Refinement and Transfer, the Krishi Vigyan Kendras (KVKs) organized 18,461 training courses benefiting 0.43 million farmers and farm women, 3,237 vocational and skill-oriented training courses benefiting 66,000 rural youths and 1,643 training programmes benefiting 41,000 in-service personnel in various aspects of agriculture. The eight Trainers’ Training Centres (TTCs) organized 188 training courses benefiting 2,893 participants, and two more TTCs in areas of vegetables and citrus have been sanctioned. In a joint project of the Divisions of Crop Science and Agricultural Extension on multi-location trials across various crop ecologies in different parts of the country, superior yielding varieties of wheat and pigeonpea have been identified.