 In addition, participants reported health symptoms related to pesticide exposure, such as shortness of breath, chest pain, rapid heartbeat, vomiting, blurred vision, anger, diﬃculty concentrating, numbness, muscle weakness, headaches, dizziness, balance problems and eye irritation. Standardised scales were used for data collection to ensure consistency and reliability. Sample Collection The blood and urine samples were collected with the permission of the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare. To ensure the integrity of these samples, we strictly followed the guidelines of the Indian Council of Medical Research (ICMR) in the collection procedures. The blood samples were collected from the cubital median vein and immediately transferred to sodium ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid (EDTA) vacutainer tubes to prevent clotting. The urine samples were collected in sterilised containers and stored at -20 °C to ensure the stability of the analytes. To ensure reliable and accurate analysis of pesticides, dialkyl phosphate metabolites (DAP) and acetylcholinesterase (AChE) enzymes, samples were transported to the ICMR-National Institute of Nutrition following standardised protocols to prevent deterioration or contamination during transport. ng/mL, respectively. The detection parameters were determined according to the protocol of Ku- mar et al. (2022). This method enables eﬃcient, accurate and sensitive detection of pesticides in blood, fulﬁls strict analytical standards and ensures reliable results in pesticide analysis. 4.1.2. Analysis of organophosphate pesticides metabolites in urine samples The six DAP metabolites of organophosphate pesticide metabolites were analysed by LC- MS/MS as reported by Kumar et al. [ 11 ]; this analytical approach targets six speciﬁc DAP metabo- 8 D. Kumar, S.N. Sinha and K. Vasudev et al. / Data in Brief 55 (2024) 110632 lites: Dimethyl phosphate (DMP), diethyl phosphate (DEP), dimethyl thiophosphate (DMTP), dimethyldithiophosphate (DMDTP), diethyl thiophosphate (DETP) and diethyl dithiophosphate (DEDTP). In the MRM mode of the spectrometer with negative ionisation, chromatographic sep- aration is performed with a binary gradient solvent consisting of 10 mM ammonium formate and acetonitrile on a C18 column (1.8 μm, 4.6 × 150 mm) at 40 °C. A 20-μl sample of the ex- tracted urine is injected into the system so that the DAP metabolites can be separated within six minutes. The sample is prepared as follows: 200 μl of urine is mixed with 800 μl of cold ethyl acetate in a 2 mL Eppendorf tube. This mixture is then shaken vigorously for one minute. The mixture is then cooled in an ice bath for ten minutes to cause precipitation. After ten minutes of cen- trifugation at 10,0 0 0 rpm, the supernatant is separated and transferred to a 10 mL tube. It is then dried under nitrogen and reconstituted with 500 μl acetonitrile. The ﬁnished solution is transferred to a vial for analysis.