 This can be emulated for other coastal districts of the state. Once the mapping is done the same can be made available for the decision makers, at the State and Central Government levels, for the developmental purposes. b. District level planning for promotion of brackishwater aquaculture CIBA has developed a methodology for district level planning for brackishwater aquaculture development evaluated in Nagapattinam district of Tamil Nadu. This planning tool integrated the site selection criteria, the resource map of the district, the agro-climatic conditions, selection of suitable culture practice and evolves an overall District/State level planning tool for future integration in Integrated Coastal Zone Management Plans of the coastal states and union territories. The stake holders meeting was organized to discuss the issues identified in the field and possible solutions for them. Similar attempts can be envisaged for other potential districts of the state. c Horizontal expansion of successful brackish water aquaculture technologies through Public Private Partnership Mode ICAR-CIBA has developed aquaculture technologies for candidate species such as shrimps (tiger shrimp, Indian white shrimp, Exotic shrimp Vannamei), crab (mudcrab), finfishes (seabass, milkfish and etroplus) and brackishwater ornamentals ( etroplus, scatophagus, moon angels). These include hatchery production of seed, nursery rearing, formulated feeds and health management. These technologies can be spread on a larger scale through Public Private Partnership (PPP) mode in the potential coastal districts of Tamil Nadu. ICAR CIBA, State Department of Fisheries and Private farmers / entrepreneurs can jointly promote these technologies. These include: Production technology for selectively bred SPF Penaeus vannamei which tripled increased the country’s shrimp production and increased the export earnings from Rs. 4000 Cr in 2010 to Rs. 20,000 Cr in 2014-15. Here the individual farmers income from shrimp farming has been tripled from the year 2010 to 2015, by adopting the vannamei farming, made possible by the timely intervention of institutions such as CIBA, MPEDA and Ministry of Agriculture. 1. Year round breeding techniques of seabass through seed production, nursery rearing and faming technology. 525 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Indigenous shrimp feed manufacturing by compressed pelleting technology 3. Shrimp hatchery and farming technology for five potential shrimp species. 4. Production of cost effective desi feed, VannamiPlus by using the indigenous feed resources. 5. Production technology of selected microbial based shrimp growth promotor “CIBASTIM” 6. A sensitive, cost-effective and users friendly nested PCR detection kit for White Spot Syndrome Virus (WSSV) in shrimp 7. Modular hatchery and technology for fish pearlspot for homestead, SHGs and farming families 8. Production technology for crab farming in three tier or Zero stocking model 9.