 In short, such programmes have paved the way for technology popularisation and commercialisation and therefore, it is fair to state that the SAUs have now four pillars of work to address – Education, Research, Extension and Entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs incubated and funded at these SAUs and ICAR Institutions have brought out some innovative solutions to the problems faced by the communities. They may be broadly categorised into innovations around Farm Mechanisation; Agri Logistics and Supply Chain; Post Harvest Food Technology and Value Addition; Allied Agri Sectors such as Dairying, Poultry, Fisheries, Animal Husbandry; OCTOBER-DECEMBER 2022 47 Waste to Wealth and Agri Inputs; Smart and Precision Agriculture etc. Some of these incubation centres have been successful in attracting young people in creating employment avenues. However, it has been observed that non-agriculture graduates are taking early advantage of this emerging situation and more than 90% agri startups have been set up by non-agri graduates. Agriculture graduates are much behind in this endeavor and only a handful of them have been successful in utilizing their knowledge, expertise and skills towards developing entrepreneurship activities. Realizing the importance of the issue, many SAUs felt that a new mechanism may perhaps be inbuilt in the 4th year degree programme to train the UG students from 1st/ 2nd year itself so as to start an eco-system for entrepreneurship development with an objective that the students start their business enterprise immediately after completion of their graduation. National Education Policy (NEP) 2020 also emphasizeson consistent integration of skills and experiences through credit based formal system. Initiatives taken by Assam Agricultural University Realizing the need for upscaling the entrepreneurship skills in agricultural graduates, the Assam Agricultural University (AAU), Jorhat, has embarked on a plan and has developed a unique structured entrepreneurship development course. This course has been administered by the Assam Agricultural University’s Incubation Centre for Startups – NEATEHUB (North East Agriculture Technology Entrepreneurs Hub) - which is an Atal Innovation Centre of the Govt. of India and a Centre of Excellence of the Department of Agriculture’s RKVY-RAFTAAR programme. The course is spread across three years –right from the second year of UnderGrad prog upto the final year of UnderGrad. The primary objective of this course is to handhold those students who have the potential to become real entrepreneurs or initiate own startups after their graduation and provide them with industry mentors, business coaches, market linkages and access to venture funding. Likewise, AAU the passion amongst the student community to pursue their dream ventures. The goals of NEP are surely in sight with integration of such initiatives at University level.