 Habit Contents ITK—GEOGRAPHICAL INDICATIONS OF PLANT SPECIES Habit Habit Etty: An evergreen or deciduous tree, usually 13 m high and 0.9 - 1.8 m in girth, with a 3.6 - 6.0 m long, fairly straight and cylindrical bole, found throughout tropical India up to an altitude of 360 m. In favourable situations trees as high as 30 m with a girth of 2.8 m may be found. The tree occurs to a considerable extent in Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Orissa, Coromandel coast, Andhra Pradesh and Karnataka, and is most common in the monsoonal forests along the western coast. Leaves 8-15 cm long, broadly elliptic, obtuse or acute, entire, with prominent central nerves; flowers greenish white, in terminal compound cymes; berries globose, 2.5 - 5.0 cm in diameter; seeds discoid (coin-like), covered with fine and silky hair, embedded in white, bitter pulp. Gloriosa: A branched herbaceous climber, common in low jungles almost throughout India up to an altitude of 6,000 ft and in Andaman Islands. Stems slender, annual, up to 20 ft long arising from a perennial, fleshy, tuberous rhizome: rhizome cylindrical, bifurcated, usually V-shaped with the two limbs equal or unequal in length, pointed at the ends, up to 12 in. long and 1.5 inc. in diameter; leaves alternate, opposite or whorled, sessile or nearly so, ovate-lanceolate, with accuminate tips spirally twisted to serve as tendrils; flowers showy, large, solitary or corymbose with perianth segments which have wavy margins, greenish at first, later becoming yellow and finally scarlet or crimson; capsules 2 in. long, containing many rounded seeds. Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name 170 Pest management by using Cynodon Volume 2, page 142 Cynodon Bengali: durba, dubh, dubla; Hindi: dhub, hariali; Kannada: kudigarikai, garikaihallu; Marathi: haryali, karala; Punjabi: dhub khabbal, talla; Sanskrit: durva, haritali; Tamil: arugam-pullu, hariali; Telugu: gericha gaddi, harvali. Dhub grass, Bermuda or Bahama grass Cynodon dactylon Pers. Contents Active ingredients Geographical indications PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT : A decoction of the plant is diuretic, and considered useful in dropsy and anasarca. The expressed juice is astringent, and is applied to bleeding cuts and wounds. Rhizomes used in genito-urinary disorders. : A hardy perennial grass with creeping culms, rooting at the nodes and forming spreading mats on the surface of the soil. The grass grows throughout India, ascending up to 8,000 ft. H Habit Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Name of the plant used in ITK : 363 : Application of neem powder to get rid of house-flies : Volume 2, page 143 : Neem Refer to ITK Code No.