 Development of biopolymers for enhancement of seed quality and as a carrier for agri-inputs: A polymer composition comprising a viscous cross-linked polymer solution, wherein the fungal spores can be entrapped, has been developed. The polymer composition can be used as a seed coating material and carrier matrix for entrapment of agri inputs which has high entrapment efficiency. The polymer composition showed good tensile strength, improved vigour index and uniform film coating. These polymer compositions were utilized for entrapment of beneficial microbes like Trichoderma which has exhibited 20–30% improvement in productivity. The Trichoderma has long shelf-life of 24 months, a better release profile due to barrier properties of polymer matrices and seed germination of studied crops. Doubling farmers’ income through Integrated Farming Systems using low-cost interventions: A total of 8 Integrated Farming Systems suitable for 4 States namely Andhra Pradesh, Bihar, Chhattisgarh and Haryana have been refined through farmers participatory approach with low-cost interventions like diversification through high yielding varieties, balanced nutrient application, improved weed management practices, diversification with high value crops, introduction of goatary, poultry, Liquid retting accelerator ‘CRIJAF SONA’ for faster jute retting An endospores-based liquid formulation of CRIJAF SONA was developed for jute retting that has 3 times longer shelf-life (18 months) than its talc-based counterpart and is more resistant to environmental stress. In comparison to 30 kg talc-based formulation/ha, it only requires about 1,000 ml for one ha of jute retting. Jute retting can be completed within 12 days, with a 2-grade improvement in fibre quality over conventional retting. The use of a liquid formulation also lowers the cost of fibre production. The resulting jute fibre has a better fibre strength ranging from 23.6 to 27.7 g/tex. Control Starter nutrition with 25 kg CN/ha Oil palm waste biochars as soil amendments: Application of oil palm waste biochars + 100% RDF significantly improved the cured leaf yield of FCV tobacco in light textured soils. Maximum soil available potassium was recorded in oil palm empty fruit bunch biochar amended soil. Oil palm empty fruit bunches Oil palm waste biochar ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 73 CROP MANAGEMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2021-22 74 Farmer participatory refined farming system components in Kanker district of Chhattisgarh ICAR-Central Institute of Cotton Research (CICR) IFS Model for enhancing farm income Fruits Napier grass Goatary Water harvesting structure Vermicompost Poultry Vegetable Crops Forestry Rainfed monocropping systems have low yield and lead to low income. Crop diversification is a choice available to increase productivity as well as farm income. Therefore, an Integrated Farming System (IFS) model was developed at ICAR-CICR for rainfed cotton-based system for central India.