 MECHANIZATION AND ENERGY MANAGEMENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 91 Micro algae harvesting system exporting grapes due to phytosanitary requirements. New Zealand and Australia are the major importers of Indian grapes. As per phytosanitary requirements formulated by New Zealand, Drosophila suzukii is considered as an invasion insect, which causes severe qualitative and quantitative losses. Fumigation is one of the most effective ways to manage pests in stored grapes. In this regards, fumigation chamber and standardization of protocol for fumigation of grapes is needed. Keeping in view, a fumigation chamber was designed, fabricated and established. The fumigation chamber has capacity of 1.50 tonnes grapes (one pellet) at a time. The chamber is divided into two parts namely, fumigation chamber and Ante room (small room for placing the gas cylinders and gas release system), which are connected by an electronically controlled door. All the operations of the fumigation system are controlled from an electronic control panel, which is fitted outside the chamber. The parameters are displayed through LED display and controlled by a BMCS (building management and control system) program specifically prepared for this fumigation system. The chamber was tested at full load using CO2 and SO2. It was found effective by achieving complete mortality of insects. A model fumigation chamber has been established at M/s Sahyadri Farmers Producer Company Limited, A/P Mohadi, Nashik (Maharashtra). The chamber is ready for commercial exploitation, which will be useful for grape exporters. Micro algae harvesting system: Harvesting of micro- Studies on the effect of different micro irrigation systems on rice (Pusa 1121) and wheat crop production were continued in the consecutive third year (2018–19). The experimental treatments are conventional irrigation, drip irrigation, rain hose, portable sprinkler and drip irrigation plus plastic mulching. In case of rice, under conventional irrigation, all conventional cultural practices were followed, whereas in remaining treatments, cultivation practises of System of Rice Intensification (SRI) were adopted till transplanting of the crop. After transplanting, irrigation treatments were imposed. Performance of rice and wheat crops under different micro irrigation systems Rice: Analysis of data on rice crop performance under different micro irrigation systems stated highest yield of 4.70 tonnes/ha under drip irrigation. However, highest water productivity of 1.04 kg/m3 was obtained under the drip irrigation treatment plus plastic mulched rice crop. The different crop growth and yield parameters under various irrigation methods are as follows: Wheat crop: Analysis of data on growth and yield parameters of wheat crop have stated highest plant height (96.50 cm) and effective tillers (492) under drip with mulch, followed by drip irrigation and lowest under flood irrigation (86.26 cm and 380 cm). The yield attributes,viz.