 The DH lab is used by breeders for speeding homozygosity and thus product delivery in Hot Peppers and Cauliflowers. Today almost all the major players in the industry are using both MAS and DH as tools on a large scale on several crops by private sector breeders. MAS – Tomato, Peppers, Veg Brassica, Cucumbers, Melons and DH – Veg Brassica, Hot and Sweet Peppers, Sweet Corn ( a crop that has become very popular since 2003 when Syngenta introduced the hybrid Sugar 75), etc. Male sterility in vegetables The CMS system based on Ogura cms (Radish) is now routinely used in all Cauliflower, Cabbage, Broccoli breeding. This has replaced self-incompatibility-based hybrid development completely. Similarly, hot pepper hybrids are based on a CGMS system making hybrid seed production very efficient. Hybrid seed production in India India has now become not only a production hub for indigenous hybrids by the companies but also is a global hub for contract hybrid seed production in several crops-based Karnataka, Maharashtra, Gujarat and some sites in North. In several places these production plots are under protected cultivation which ensures global high standards of purity and quality seeds that are free of seed borne diseases. These efforts have improved economies in hundreds of villages and also generated huge employment potential for semi and skilled workers. Gaps and future strategies Having achieved great strides the author would like to address a few challenges that are now under consideration by the private sector and will need attention of the public sector too. Vegetable consumption per capita: As seen in Fig 11, our per capita consumption of almost all vegetables is around 20% of Chinese population. It is even in the most popular vegetables like tomato, peppers, chillies, cabbages, watermelons and melons. We are better in dry chillies and Okra and equal in Onions. The author is sure that similar will be the scenario in all other vegetables too. Hence, we need to work towards diversifying our vegetable usage as well as increase their consumption to meet the daily requirement of 400 g plus per capita. We Fig. 10. Dolichos and Cowpea hybrids using GMS system (Source: Dr Manoj Phalak, Ankur Seeds) March–April 2023 13 are at around 220 g today. This needs not only breeders attention but also extension agencies within private sector as well as government. Productivity gap analysis: In Fig 12 are presented average yields of key vegetables over four decades to see how we have progressed and to see how we have progressed vs an equally populated country like China. This table is prepared based on FAO Stats and helps us to see progress as well as key gaps that need to be addressed. In the column % over 1990 we can see the best progress in Dry Chillies to the tune of 163% and 100% in Watermelon. Okra at 91%, Eggplants at 71%, Tomatoes at 55% Cauliflower at 35% increase over 1990 are the other best results.