 IPP nets of 40 or higher mesh are effective means to control entry of most flying insects and save crop from diseases. These structures permit early planting of tomatoes, cucumber, bitter gourd, musk melon, summer squash, brinjal and chilli etc. without the risk of vectors. Insect proof net house enhances 25–35% more yield as compared to traditional methods during peak summer season. These structures can be used successfully for seed production in rainfed areas. Crops suitable for these structures include tomato, cherry tomato, cucumber, bitter gourd, musk melon, summer squash, papaya, meadow and high density orcharding of mango, guava, pomegranate and strawberry etc. besides very few flower crops. Poly-tunnel Technology Poly-tunnels are flexible transparent coverings that are installed over single or multiple rows of vegetables to enhance the plant growth by warming the air around Poly - house Source: Barton Breeze Indian Farming 8 February 2023 the plants in the open field during winter season when the temperature is below 8°C. Plastic low tunnels are often used to promote the growth of plants during the winter season. The farmers can grow different varieties of summer squash (round-fruited, long-fruited), along with cultivation of netted muskmelon varieties in place of traditional varieties. Bitter gourd and round melon are two other crops with increasing demand usually fetches very high price during off-season and can be grown successfully by using the plastic low tunnel technology. Poly-tunnel is also known as temporary or mobile micro-poly-house or row-cover and classified as low poly-tunnel, high poly-tunnel and trench poly-tunnel. Plastic mulching Plastic mulching technology, also called surface covered cultivation, largely involves mulching with polythene sheets for addressing three major issues, viz. soil and water conservation, leaching of nutrients as well as reduction of weeds and to some extent insect pest damage. Drip irrigation is an integral part of mulching technology. Mulching involves covering the soil around the plant bases with an organic or inorganic material which makes condition more favourable for plant growth and development. Organic mulches, like leaves, straw, sawdust etc. add nutrients and humus to the soil as they decompose, improving its tilth and moisture holding capacity. Synthetic or plastic mulches have various beneficial effects on crop production. The plastic mulch is available in different colours and each colour has its own significance: Transparent polyethylene mulch raises the soil temperature by soil solarization and used mainly for managing soil-borne diseases, and nematodes. This effect derives mostly from the suppression of latent heat loss through evaporation. Black polyethylene film also gives effective weed control by cutting down solar radiation by more than 90%, resulting in etiolated growth and the eventual death of weeds under the film.