 Underlying this objective are the following aims: (i) Foster research and a research culture that will use and advance the frontiers of scientific knowledge to effectively meet the present, anticipated and unanticipated problems of agriculture through various modes and critical investments in research projects; (ii) Build the capability of the National Agricultural Research System through development of wide partnerships in science through projects; (iii) Build a storehouse of advancement of knowledge in science related to agriculture and awareness of the national importance of basic and strategic research in agriculture.; (iv) To provide policy support to the decision makers for use of basic and strategic research in agriculture, and; (v) Organizations of workshop, seminars, conferences etc. to create awareness, prioritization, scientific popularization and related issues. The scheme has already funded 112 projects, mostly in consortium mode out of which 69 are on- going projects and 60 are multi-institutional in nature. Besides supporting, reviewing, monitoring and evaluation of the on-going projects during 2016-17, the NASF initiated for funding of new projects which were in the process of evaluation. A total of 996 Concept Notes (CNs) were received against the Call VI. They were scrutinized by the corresponding Deputy Directors General and Expert Committees of the ICAR. A total of 18 projects were approved by the NASF and remaining proposals are in the process of being peer-reviewed. The NASF was also engaged in creating awareness for the need and nature of the basic research for agriculture among institutions within and outside the traditional NARS, inviting new project proposals. Workshop on Animal-Human conflict: A workshop on Human - Wildlife conflict in Agro- pastoral contexts, jointly organized by Indian Council of Agricultural Research and National Institute of Advanced Studies, Bengaluru, was held from 11 to 12 December 2015 at National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, Bengaluru. Major thrust in the workshop was on wildlife conflict related to monkeys, wild boar, nilgai and elephant, that receive little attention in public discussions, yet cause enormous economic and human losses to small farmers. The workshop also deliberated to understand different dimension of human-wildlife conflict in agricultural ecosystem and way to mitigate the losses caused to agriculture by wildlife, with minimum losses to wild animal. Workshop on GM Crops: The workshop on ‘GM Crops in India-Way forward’ was held on 17 May 2016 in New Delhi. The deliberations during the workshop included regulatory aspects, biosafety issues, transgenic research for academic purpose vs product oriented research, NOC from states for field trials, need of joining hands of ICAR and DBT, need of a joint taskforce, priorities of traits and crops for GM research, trait availability within germplasm and transgenic development, and pyramiding of transgenes.