 Computational pipeline was developed to identify lncRNAs in rice plants from RNAseq data and functionally classify the potential lncRNAs. Transcriptome data was generated from the flag leaf and roots of Horkuch, a salt tolerant genotype at reproductive stage and IR- 29, a salt sensitive genotype at reproductive stage, under control and salinity stress. By applying several stringent criteria, 1626 and 2208 putative lncRNAs in root and leaf tissue, respectively, were identified and functionally annotated. Expression pattern of randomly selected lncRNAs was verified by qPCR analysis. Based upon their genomic origin, 1079, 45 and 473 lncRNAs in root tissue were categorised as lincRNAs, NAT and sense, respectively; while 1452, 67 and 6 leaf tissue lncRNAs were categorised as lincRNAs, NAT and intronic, respectively. Both root and leaf tissue lincRNAs were more evenly distributed across chromosomes. The few lncRNAs were predicted as a precursor for miRNA and siRNA molecule, while some as target mimics of known miRNAs involved in various regulatory functions. The modulated expression of lncRNAs in salinity indicated their putative role in stress response in rice. Marker-assisted breeding in sorghum Three brown midrib genes (bmr2, bmr6 and bmr12) useful for lignocellulosic biofuel production pyramided into two sorghum cultivars, CSV 20 and CSV 27.A new genic SSR marker Sb-bmr12 was developed for effective marker-assisted gene pyramiding. New epicuticular wax locus mapped in sorghum A new epicuticular wax (bloom) locus has been identified and fine mapped to the 207.89 kb genomic region on chromosome 1. A putative candidate gene, Sobic.001G269200, annotated as GDSL-like lipase/ acylhydrolase, is identified as the candidate gene involved in bloom synthesis/deposition. Cloning of RGA and sequence analysis for finger millet blast Degenerate primers specific to P-Loop and GLPL motif of nucleotide binding site (NBS) domain were custom synthesized and resistance gene analogues were amplified, cloned and sequenced from the finger millet line IE 2911. The 511 bp long sequence contained a continuous open reading frame encoding 170 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence showed internal motifs characteristic of NBS domain namely P-loop, Kinase 2, Kinase 3a and GLPL. The sequence showed maximum identity (77%) to RPS2-type RGA from Oryza sativa in BLASTP analysis. RPS2 belongs to the non-TIR subclass of NBS LRR proteins which is characterized by the absence of Toll/interlekin-1 receptor (TIR) in the amino terminus, but instead has a coiled structure. In Arabidopsis, RPS2 is involved in defense against Pseudomonas syringae. Development of a high-density intraspecific SNP linkage map of pigeonpea Pigeonpea is the second most important pulse crop of India.