 The main objective was to connect all the libraries through KOHA, installation of RFID, purchase of print book, print journals, e-books and e-journals except those available Strengthened facilities at the libraries AGRICULTURAL HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPENT DARE/ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2019–20 105 in CERA, digitization of thesis (M.Sc. and Ph.D.) and other important documents etc. The support from Council under this component, helped the agricultural universities to enrich their resources by adding about 44,973 print books, e-books, e-journals and print journals, across universities. The AUs also installed 4,539 computers other hardware including RFID and other software towards digitization. New books, e–journals, etc. helped students to improve research, formulate projects, improve in publication quality and this led to success at national and regional level competitions. Many students have succeeded in securing admission for Masters/ Doctoral studies in institutes of repute, within the country and abroad. Algorithm for duplication of works: A copy detection method based on keywords for checking the duplicity for various items in the repository was attempted. A process for detecting duplicity mechanism in the digital document based on the keywords (frequency of keyword) was visualized and algorithm process was developed. KrishiKosh is digital repository platform capable of decentralized management of content but centralized hosting and maintenance for convenience of multiple users. Each institution has its own repository with full control without botheration of maintaining hardware/ software which is centrally managed at IARI, New Delhi. This platform provides open access to institutional knowledge for the NARES system. Till date 66 AUs have uploaded 111,256 thesis titles in KrishiKosh repository. Support, upgradation and modernization of agricultural universities New student hostels (36), examination halls (16), educational museums (2) were supported across agricultural universities as a step towards strengthening infrastructure. Teaching facilities were further enhanced with support for 62 smart classrooms, especially in off campus colleges. Funding support was also provided for upgradation of laboratories and other amenities pertaining to teaching and learning. Smart classrooms, with most up to date audio visual aids, enabled effective delivery of course curriculum, ensuring enriched learning experience. Central Instrumentation facilities were encouraged and equipped preferentially across AUs. The upgradation of UG and PG laboratories improved both PG student research and practicals. Communication labs helped improved the language skills of the students as per requirement. Practical manuals were developed in various subjects. Ekikrit Krishi Shiksha Takniki Ayam (EKTA-Education Portal) Education Portal-ICAR (https://education.icar.gov.