 This ICT Roadmap envisaged short term and long-term ICT/IT activities which are needed for undertaking ICT/IT projects based on disruptive ICT technologies such as precision agriculture, dynamic decision support and advisory system, e-Governance software using AI, DL, ML, blockchain and big data analytical techniques. In order to make paperless/ environmental friendly office, e-office software has been implemented across 113 ICAR Institutes along with their Regional Stations/Sub-Stations in the country. Technology assessment, demonstration and capacity development: During the year, 12 new KVKs were established taking the total number of KVKs to 722 in the country. Besides lab to land activities for outreach, important programmes such as Farmers FIRST, Attracting and Retaining Youth in Agriculture (ARYA), Cluster Frontline Demonstration of Pulses and Oilseeds, Cereal Systems Initiatives for South Asia (CSISA), National Innovations in Climate Resilient Agriculture (NICRA), Pulses Seed Hubs, Mera Gaon Mera Gaurav and awareness creation on government schemes etc. were taken up to address various challenges of engaging youth in agriculture, bringing self-sufficiency in the production of pulses and oilseeds, sustainable agriculture, etc. Technology assessment is one of the main activities of KVKs to identify the location specificity of agricultural technologies developed by the National Agricultural Research System (NARS) under various farming systems. A total of 5,421 technologies of various crops were assessed at 13,094 locations by KVKs through 25,357 trials on farmers’ field under thematic areas, namely cropping systems, drudgery reduction, farm machineries, integrated crop management, integrated disease management, integrated nutrient management, integrated pest management, integrated weed management, processing and value addition, resource conservation technologies, seed and planting materials production, storage techniques besides varietal assessment for cereals, pulses, oilseeds, fruits, vegetable crops and commercial crops. Under livestock, 1,034 technologies interventions across 3,338 locations covering 5,156 trials on animals under the thematic areas of disease management, evaluation of breeds, feed and fodder management, nutrition management, production management, processing and value addition were taken up for assessment. The Indian Council of Agricultural Research, New Delhi initiated National Level Cluster Frontline Demonstration (CFLDs) on Pulses and Oilseeds with main objective to demonstrate the production potential of new varieties and the related technologies. A total of 17.27 lakh farmers/farm women, rural youth and extension personnel were trained on various aspects through 57,879 training programmes. KVKs produced technological products like seeds and planting materials of improved varieties and hybrids, bio-products and elite species of livestock, poultry and fish which benefited 26.37 lakh farmers in the country.