edu Textbook of Field Crops Production – Commercial Crops Indian Farming 33 April 2023 Mushroom cultivation: A lucrative agribusiness venture Jitendra Ojha* and Sumit Kumar Shukla Chhatrapati Sahu Ji Maharaj University, Kanpur, Uttar Pradesh 208 001 Mushroom farming is a potential agri-business venture for employment generation as well as raising the income of the rural poor nowadays. There are four types of mushrooms namely Oyster mushroom (pleurotus spp), Paddy straw mushroom (volvariella spp.), Milky mushroom (calocybe spp) and Button mushroom (agaricus spp.) commonly grown in different seasons in India. Button Mushroom cultivation is prevalent in northern India. Mushroom are dense with thiamine (vitamin-B-1), riboflavin (B-2), niacin, pantothenic acid (B-5), biotin, folic acid, vitamin C, D, A and K. In addition, mushrooms contains nearly 85–90% moisture, 3% protein, 4% carbohydrates, 0.3–0.4% fats and 1% minerals and vitamins. Owing to the above properties it can be treated as future food for the population. It is not only good for health conscious peoples but also create the employment opportunities for rural farmers and women as well. Keywords: Future food, Mushroom, Nutritional content I NDIAN food is primarily based on cereals and pulses, consumed as a major source of carbohydrates. Mushrooms are evolved as a supplemental source of protein to Indian diet. From the beginning of time, people have consumed mushrooms as food. Around 1630 white button mushroom (Agaricus bisporus) cultivation began for the first time in France. Mushroom cultivation in India started before a century, as the Volvariella volvacea was cultivated on paddy straw. In 1950, an attempt was made to grow the mushroom on paddy straw in Coimbatore. An attempt was also made for the first time to artificially cultivate Agaricus bisporus using wheat straw and horse dung. In the similar lines a coordinated plan was started in Solan, Bengaluru, Ludhiana and New Delhi in 1974 for cultivation of mushroom. Out of total mushroom production in India (approximately 0.13 million tonnes) white button mushrooms account for 73% of all produced mushrooms, followed by Indian Farming 73 (04): 33-35; April 2023 oyster mushrooms (16%), paddy straw mushrooms (7%) and milky mushrooms (3%). In India, per capita consumption of mushrooms is low as compared to other vegetables. Mushrooms are the eukaryotic, spore bearing fungi lacking chlorophyll, grown on the dead and decomposed matter. Mushrooms are positioned between meat and vegetables in the dietary hierarchy. They are a good source of carbohydrate, vitamins and rich in protein in comparison to cereals, fruits and vegetables. In addition, mushroom contains 9 essential amino acids that are required for human growth and development. India is suitable for the growing varieties of temperate, subtropical and tropical mushrooms because of a diverse agro-climatic, plenty of agricultural waste and human labour.