 235 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Lakshadweep Generic Advisory: As per the island guidelines for COVID-19 towards prevention and containing the spread to be adopted by all islanders is mandatory. Day to day changes in the timings for people to move outside for basic needs has been provided by the UT administration though its public information system. The islanders should firmly follow that. Apart from that personal hygiene and bio security measures at home and office premises have been informed to follow firmly to contain the spread of the pandemic. The shutdown and lockdown periods has been enforced and public have been requested to follow the same. SMS (SOAP- MASK- SOCIAL DISTANCING) are to be remembered as a mantra by the generic public and farmers to contain the pandemic. Government and private input agencies have to arrange the farm inputs together by farmer’s groups to avoid over exposure of farmers. In the island as field crops like cereals and pulses are not grown field preparation and nursery preparation are managed by farmers at their households. This has been ensured for overcrowding for procuring the inputs from different agencies. The same has been provided to the marine fishermen of the island. Strict use of hand sanitization and other COVID related protocols need to be followed at all stages of agriculture and fishing operations. Agriculture advisory: During this period farmer /households prepare their land for vegetables and fruit cultivation and few of them as intercrop in coconut gardens. Farmers ready for cultivation of vegetable and fruits have to be think about conservation of available water. Conserve water in surface and sub-surface horizons of soil which in turn address drought related issues in coconut and other crops grown in the island. Use natural mulching (locally available farm materials) for conversation of moisture. 236 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Homestead gardens: Drought management in homesteads should be undertaken through husk burial in trenches, mulch with dried coconut leaves, sow cowpea or green manure crops on receipt of pre monsoon showers in coconut basins. Manage the micro climate with intercrops like tubers, vegetables, perennial vegetables, medicinal plants, spices and banana to make each homestead as nutritional garden. Vegetables: Planting material production of vegetables can be initiated. Use grow bag, soil less medium and organic inputs for vegetable cultivation. Use drip or wick irrigation sources for assuring wetness for better growth of plants. Use soil less medium @ 5kg/bag. Coconut: Practice crown cleaning and preventing Rhinoceros beetle attack. Apply 250g neem cake mixed with equal volume of sand in the innermost 2-3 leaf axils during April-May before the onset of south- west monsoon. Ginger, turmeric, vegetables can be cultivated in coconut gardens as intercrop. Provide shade to the young palms that are planted recently.