 The primary objective was to boost domestic manufacturing of battery electric vehicles (BEVs), hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles, and other Advanced Automotive Technology (AAT) products by offering ﬁnancial incentives. By 2022, GOI managed to approve a total of 85 applications from automakers and component manufac- turers under this PLI. The National Mission on Transformative Mobility and Battery Storage (NMTMBS) was introduced in 2019 to localise EV and battery manufacturing; however, the domestic battery manufacturing capacity has not progressed much. Parallelly, multiple states have announced demand-side incentives through tax exemptions, access to ﬁnancing, pri- ority/free permits and supply-side incentives through grants/subsidies and tax waivers. There has been some dis- parity between the states regarding objectives and incen- tive structures, but overall, state EV policies have complemented the national-level policies for transitioning towards greener mobility. Besides EVs and hydrogen fuel cell vehicles, the govern- ment has recently started pushing for ﬂex-fuel vehicles to reduce import dependency on conventional crude oil and diversify portfolios to hedge energy and geopolitical risks. No speciﬁc subsidy/incentive scheme has been notiﬁed for ﬂex-fuel vehicles as of June 2023 (except biofuel policies), but this can be expected soon. While several factors discussed above have positively inﬂuenced the adoption of alternative-fuel vehicles, the overall uptake has been slow, and fossil-fuel vehicles are likely to continue to dominate the market for at least the next 1015 years. In 2016, the Government’s notiﬁcation to leapfrog from BS-IV to BS-VI emission standard by 2020 was an essential push to limit tailpipe emissions of internal com- bustion engine (ICE) vehicles through technical advance- ment. A similar push is necessary on the green vehicle front to decarbonise the transport sector and reap the maximum beneﬁts. Policies targeted towards fuel economy and alternative fuels also have a direct impact on the road transport system. After multiple notiﬁcations about the Ethanol Blending Pro- gramme (EBP) and National Biodiesel Mission (NBM) went in vain, the government announced the National Policy on Bio- fuels and mandated a phased implementation of EBP. By the end of 2017, the actual blending was far behind the target, and the deadline for a minimum of 20% blending was post- poned to 2030, which was later advanced to 20252026. The scarcity of production capacity and lack of standardised blending procedures were the key reasons. The ﬁrst phase of Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) standards in India started in 2017, followed by the second phase in 2022, limiting an automaker’s (sales-) vol- ume weighted average CO2 emission. CAFE-II and BS-VI have been complementary, and automakers have mostly modiﬁed their ﬂeets accordingly. Similar norms have been applicable for light and heavy-duty commercial vehicles as well.