 14 ICAR Institutes Profile 14 ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Bureau of Agricultural Insect Resources, P.O. Box 2491, H.A. Farm Post, Hebbal Bengaluru 560 024, Karnataka, India ii. Name of the Director: Dr. M. Nagesh iii. Email ID & phone: director.nbair@icar.gov.in, Ph. No. 080-23411961 2. Mandate and activities • To act as a nodal agency for collection, characterization, documentation, conservation, exchange, research and utilization of agriculturally important insect resources (including mites, spiders and related arthropods) and insect derived resources for sustainable agriculture. • Capacity building, development of technologies for nonchemical pest management, dissemination of technologies and forging linkages with stakeholders. 3. Salient achievements • Established National repository for preservation of insects, spiders and mites. • Established a state of art National Insect Museum facility in 2019 with 2,16,093 preserved specimens of insects, mites and spider including 349 primary and secondary type specimens, for posterity and Research & Development. • Established an Ex Situ live insect germplasm facility with 136 species, the biggest live insect repository for biological control in India. • ICAR-NBAIR identified many invasive pests for introduction of biocontrol agents time to time their management including Sugarcane wooly aphid, Eucaplyptus gallwasp fly, Papaya mealybug, Fall armyworm, Rugose spiralling whitefly, Cassava mealybug and Thrips parvispinus. • Developed: 161 technologies (including development of mass production and application protocols for insect biocontrol agents) out of which 32 commercialized with 101 licensees given to more than 20 companies and startups • Succeeded in biological Control of Sugarcane Woolly Aphid • Developed parasitoid based biological suppression of Papaya Mealybug • Developed novel insecticidal WP formulations of Heterorhabditis indica for the biological control of white grubs & other soil insect pests and EPN technology for the biological 15 Crop Science 15 control of white grubs and other insect pests was granted Indian Patent and transferred non-exclusively to 16 companies. • Waste to wealth: Black soldier fly: An alternative for waste management and feed 4. Knowledge/skill/technologies/products/other services available for different stakeholders Biological control and EPN technologies for management of insect & pests in different crops. BSF Egg BSF Larvae BSF Pupae BSF Adult 16 ICAR Institutes Profile 16 ICAR-National Research Centre for Integrated Pest Management 1. Contact details i. Postal Address: ICAR-National Research Centre for Integrated Pest Management, LBS Building IARI, Pusa Campus, New Delhi-110012 ii. Name of the Director : Dr. Subhash Chander iii. Email address : Email: director.ncipm@icar.gov.in, Phone: 011-25843936, 25843935 2.