 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference (Madhya Pradesh). About 90% of the farmers in these regions use this implement for secondary tillage of various crops (Hassan, Banagalore, Tumkur and Mandya, Karnataka). 50 Triangular harrow for breaking soil clods This implement is made up of steel, shisham wood and it has weight of 105 lbs. It is operated by two bullocks and one man by hitching yoke to the harrow along with tail. The work rate of this implement is 6 acres/day. It is used for seedbed preparation, breaking soil crust in wheat, maize and cotton and also for weeding and hoeing in wheat (All the districts, Punjab). ICAR (1960) 51 Charotahal for land preparation The plough is made up of Babool, teak and mild steel. The handle body and shoe are in separate pieces. The shoe which is made up of steel is fixed by a means of wedge. It is tied to the yoke and beam by means of a rope of loop and is kept tied by means of wooden or iron pegs fixed to the beam. It can be operated with one pair of bullocks and one man in monsoon season in pearlimillet, cotton and tobacco crops with a work rate of 1 acre/day. All the farmers in Kaira district of Maharastra use this implement which can be repaired locally and has the service life of 10 years (Kaira, Maharashtra). ICAR (1960) 52 Votti for land levelling This implement is manufactured with Babool, vengaiwood for handle and HC steel or MS for levelling board. The weight of the implement ranges 35-40 lbs and operated by a pair of bullocks and one person. It is fastened to yoke shaft either by rope or chains and is provided with wooden handle for controlling the implement. It is used after harrowing to level the field just before sowing. The implement scoops the earth at a higher level and throws it to a lower level. It covers 1.5 acre/day. The steel boards are generally made from the side plates of sugarcane’s pans for using in dry soils (Coimbatore, Tamil Nadu). ICAR (1960) 53 Leveller (suhaga) for land levelling The plank of the leveller is made of wood and shafts are made of bamboo sticks. Extra weight is added by placing stone on it or having persons ride on it. Used for levelling land (Himachal Pradesh). Verma (1998) 120 VETERINARY SCIENCE AND ANIMAL HUSBANDRY S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 216 Medicinal use of bamboo in cattle Important parts of bans (Bambusa arundinacea) used are leaf and stem containing choline, betain, nuclease, urease, cyanogeenticand glucoside. Leaf acts as emmenagogue, stimulant, astringent, febrifuge, echbolic and diuretic and acts against leprosy, tympany/bloat, diarrhoea, retained placenta, thread worm,cough, cold in horses. Flowering occurs once in ten- twelve years. The plant dries after flowering. Parabia et al. (2000) 217 Medicinal importance of zakhmehaiyat Leaf juice of zakhme is medicinally valuable containing malic, isocitric and citric acids act as styptic, astringent and antiseptic. Pulp is applied on bruised wounds insect bites.