 Increasing institutional support by providing subsidises and incentives to small and marginal farmers. 2. Labelling of organic inputs and certification mechanism for various crops. 3. Popularization of Udhyan and Krishak Cards for widespread use of government incentives/ subsidies to farmers. 4. Establishment of wood bank at Dunagiri and Shaharphatak areas to meet the present and future demand of germplasm in horticultural crops. 590 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 5. Implementation of effective and workable Nursery Act to avoid spurious or unreliable planting material in the state. 6. Ensure sustainable agriculture through more efficient utilization of land, water and other resources. 7. Compulsion of Soil Health Card Scheme, Kisan Credit Card and Crop Insurance for all farmers. Strategy 9 : Marketing and value addition in specific agro-ecological region 1. Creation of better transportation facilities with cool chain van at Block level (particularly vegetable/fruit/ floriculture). 2. Establishment of collection center of fruit/ vegetable processing unit (Tarikhet, Sult, Dhauladevi) and its direct linkage with food processing industries for better prices. 3. Establishment of strong linkages with various stack holders to furnish information on crop produce and surplus. 4. Establishment of procurement and collection centre at Nyaypanchyat level for agricultural surplus with proper labelling. 5. Installation of mini grading machines at village level. 6. Establishment of cold room in different clusters i.e Almora, 7. Deghat and Sult areas. Strategy 10: Online Management and Evaluation 1. Strengthening of internet connectivity. 2. Development of Mobile apps/ software for online management and evaluation at district level. 3. Development of e-Marketing and kiosk at district level to have information of surplus commodities at block level. 4. Organization of monthly review meeting at district to solve the problems related with farmers. 5. Promotion of use of radio, TV talks and Whatsapp etc. for effective implementation of program. Zone: C (1500-2400 m) Strategy 1: Productivity Enhancement Strengthening of traditional water storage structure 1. Creation of additional water storage tank/ polytank for particular vegetable areas of Tarikhet (Chaubatia), Hawalbagh (Shitlakhet, Kasardevi), Lamgara (Shaharphatak, Motiapathar) and Dhauladevi (Jageshwar) for lean season. 591 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 2. Promotion of rain water harvesting and drip-fertigation system in vegetable clusters in this zone in all blocks. 3. Promotion of water conservation techniques like mulch, sprinkler and drip in juvenile plants in particular vegetable growing areas viz. Tarikhet (Chaubatia), Hawalbagh (Shitlakhet, Kasardevi), Lamgara (Shaharphatak, Motiapathar) and Dhauladevi (Jageshwar) 4. Popularisation of roof water harvesting system in all villages. 5.