 Over the past few decades, research institutes working on this sector offered a number of technological options that could raise the productivity of different species if adopted area-wide. These include genetic enhancement of indigenous 262 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 breeds through crossbreeding with exotic breeds, improvement of nutritive quality of feed and fodder through biological and chemical treatments, development of vaccines against animal diseases, improved livestock management practices, and post harvest management. Karnataka government and Veterinary University’s animal health care or disease control programs as well as improved veterinary services and other farm management programs have helped mitigate animal losses, maintain disease-free status and increase the farmers income. For example, clean milk production and control of sub clinical mastitis can increase farmers income by 40% and adoption of improved breeds instead of local goats as well as supplementation with assured health care service delivery can increase the famers income by 50%. Table: Technologies Related to Livestock and Fishery for doubling the farmers’ income S. No. Technology Title Brief description Potential income increase due to technology (in percentage) 1. Clean milk production and control of sub clinical mastitis A better diagnostic and strategic control measures have been developed which reduced the occurrence of mastitis cases both in cows and buffaloes after imparting knowledge and skills on the mastitis detection and control techniques. The keeping quality of milk has also improved in both cow milk and buffalo milk. There was one lakh reduction in the somatic cell count of cows and buffaloes milk by the adoption of the practices. As a whole, the effort of multidisciplinary team in prevention and control of SCM at field conditions will help in improved production performance 40% 2. Strategic feeding regimen to boost production and reproduction in dairy animals Strategic feeding regimen of 30 kg of cereal green fodder, 5 kg leguminous green fodder 4 kg dry fodder and concentrate feed 2.5 kg for an animal yielding 10 litres of milk per day. This helps to increase in milk yield to the tune of 3.0-5.0L per animal. In addition, improvement in the quality of milk in terms of SNF and Fat encouraged the farmer to adopt the recommended feeding regimen. 25% 3. Up gradation of local goats, supplemen- tation with assured health care service delivery The improved breeds namely, Osmanabadi, Telicherry, Boer, beetel breeds of goat can be introduced for up gradation of local goats through community based groups. In addition, 250 g of concentrates may be supplemented in last two months of gestation and one month after kidding. Further, regular deworming and vaccination against PPR, HS and ET has to be carried out. It will increase in the annual income to a tune of Rs.20.000/-.