 Stem Wet Rot (SWR): This disease involves several fungal and bacterial primary and secondary invaders. The prominent symptoms consist of chocolate brown discoloration of lower whorls of leaves, leading to necrosis and progressing to younger whorls of leaves. Sudden and simultaneous death of unexpanded spear leaves. Affected internal tissues show fibrous mass, brown, yellowish or grey in colour becomes putrefied and emits a very strong odor. With extensive rotting in the center of the affected stem, usually large cavity will be formed and palm dies. Trunk surgery can be practiced by removing rotten tissues at the base or just above the ground level. After careful scraping, the entire area should be given coating with Hexaconazol (1 ml) + Monocrotophos (1 ml) + Plantamycin (2g) in 100 ml of water followed by hot coal tar. Filling of the cavity with sand and cement mixture. Stem injection of Hexaconazole or Propiconazole or Trifloxystrobin+ Tebuconazole 10 ml + 2 g Plantamycin in 100 ml of water after the surgery. Harvesting The oil content in the mesocarp which is the major economic produce of oil palm is strongly related to fruit ripeness. Bunch ripeness is identified by detachment of the fruit, change in colour, and change in fruit texture. Harvesting must take place in such a way that a bunch which is almost ready for one cycle should not be over-ripe for the following cycle. Under Andhra Pradesh conditions, harvesting round every 7-14 days give good results. Each mature palm can produce 8 to 15 FFB per year weighing about 15-25 kg each, depending on the planting material, management practices followed and age of the palm. In young palms up to a height of 8 feet, matured bunches can be harvested with the help of a sharp chisel. If palms are more than 8 feet tall, knife fitted on aluminum pole can be used, and it is extendable up to 45 feet. Two sickles DOPR-1 and DOPR-5 manufactured with stainless steel were designed and developed to harvest bunches from oil palm plantations. Two models of oil palm harvesting tools viz., backpack mounted and trolley mounted were developed and tested in oil palm plantations. Based on the initial trials, it was observed that using the backpack model, the operator could harvest comfortably up to a height of 5-6m and it has better adoptability and flexibility. The harvested bunches have to be shifted to the processing mill immediately. Environmental impact Oil palm is environmentally friendly crop. This crop has been introduced to India in 1970s as a commercial crop and since then 4.25 lakh ha has been planted in various states. In none of the states, environmental issues are reported due to oil palm cultivation. Further, with its huge biomass producing nature it acts as a great carbon sink, helping in neutralizing the impacts of climate change. In India, it is not recommended to plant oil palm by replacing the existing forest.