25 ha Maize, rice, wheat, black gram, green gram, gram, soybean; Vegetables: tomato, brinjal, coriander, chilli and okra; Livestock: 7 cows (HF cross breed), 3 buffaloes (Murrah); Poultry unit: one commercial unit (Pratapdhan); Supplementary interventions: Vermi-compost unit, Azolla unit, Milk collection centre. In 2012, he purchased 7 HF crossbred cows and 3 murrah buffalos worth Rs 5 lakh through bank loan. Since 2013, he has been participating in on and off campus trainings organized by KVK, Dungarpur. His net income has increased substantially since 2012 and presently he is earning over Rs 8 lakh per annum. 477 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 The second smallest state of Indian Union, Sikkim lies in the Eastern Himalayan Range between 2705’ and 2809’ north and 88056’ longitude. Because of geographical position, it is wholly a hilly state having varied elevation ranging from 300 to 8400 meters. The mean annual rainfall varies from 2000 mm to 5000mm with intensity from drizzling to snowing. The wealth of the state is derived from its forests, agriculture and livestock. The household income of the farmers contributed (24%) by farming, livestock (16%), non- farm activity (14%) and income from wages and salary (34%). The farm household having outstanding loans has declined over the years it is about 14% with an average of INR 14,645 per hectare. Maize, rice, wheat, millet, buckwheat, pulses and oilseeds are the major cereal crops grown in the state. The productivity of these crops is lower than both regional and national averages for all the major field crops. Agriculture, horticulture and livestock are the backbone of Sikkim’s rural economy. In recent years, rural tourism home stays are also emerging as a component of farm household income. The state is bestowed with favorable climatic conditions to grow wide variety of agri-horti crops, abundant water, and biological diversity. In addition to nature’s bounty, it has people friendly administration, state and central research and development institutions to guide and advice policy makers and executors to execute them at grass root level. The agriculture sectors needs attention with regard to enhancing production, productivity, diversification, infrastructure creation, market linkages, better breeds of livestock, production of feed and fodder and management of livestock and product processing on scientific lines. The distribution of operational holdings in Sikkim is highly iniquitous. The marginal and small farmers taken together constitute 68 per cent of total land holdings but cultivate only 28 per cent of the total land area in the state. While the holding above 4 ha form 12.5 per cent and they control more than 44 per cent of the total operated land. The average size of holdings in the state is 1.95 ha. Sikkim is a landlocked state in the north-eastern region of India.