 Farmers are advised to use low protein diet as the rate of feeding and metabolic activities decreases during winter and advised to reduce adding of organic manure such as cow dung, poultry droppings and pig dung in the pond as the rate of decomposition decreases during winter. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 240 sIKKIm General Advisory for Rabi Season: Sowing should be done within the optimum sowing time of the rabi crops. Mulching should be done through locally available biomass to conserve soil moisture for rabi crops and suppress the weed growth. Zero till cultivation of vegetable pea/toria/buckwheat can be taken up in rice fallow to utilize the residual soil moisture. Nursery should be raised for cole crops (cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli), onion, rayasaag etc. under protected condition. Nursery bed should be protected from rain (Silpauline: 45GSM) to avoid losses during unexpected rain. COVID protocol and measures to be followed while working in the field. Application of lime @ 1 t/ha 15-20 days before sowing the seed may be done for increasing availability of nutrients to the plants. For plant protection measures, spray neem-based formulation (1500 ppm) @ 0.3% as and when required to all the crops. Agricultural crops Rajsmah Sowing of Rajmash seed should be done by last week of August for getting maximum yield. Recommended varieties are – Sikkim Rajma-1, Jwala, Tripura Rajmash Selection 1 etc. Sowing of rajmash should be done on the ridge (ridge-furrow) to avoid seed deterioration due to water logging from continuation rain and proper drainage channel to be made. Apply FYM 5 t/ha + 2.0 t/ha vermicompost + 20 kg/ha biofertilizer. Seed rate of rajmash should be @ 70-80 kg/ha with spacing 30 cm x10 cm. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 241 Rapeseed Mustard Field should be prepared in the month of October-November with 2-3 times ploughing for Rapeseed and Mustard cultivation and apply well decomposed FYM @ 5 t/ha, vermicompost 2 t/ha and 100-120 kg/ha rock phosphate to get optimum yield. Sowing of Rapeseed and Mustard should be done from last week of October to December. Seed rate @ 6-8 kg/ha treated with PSB @20g/kg of seed. Recommended varieties are – Pant Pili Sarson-1, Pant Sweta and existing variety like Uttara and Benoy-9, PM-27, and PM-28 etc and Toria variety TS 36, TS 38 Buckwheat: Sowing should be done from the second fortnight of October to First week of November. Sowing should be done with the seed rate 30-40kg/ha and spacing 30 cm x10 cm Apply FYM @ 5 t/ha and vermicompost @ 1t/ ha. Horticultural crops At fruiting stage such as orange, kiwifruit utmost precaution should be taken during filed operation to avoid root damage. Ensure proper storage of harvested fruit crop to ensure better price realization like cold storage etc. Precautions to be taken for direct marketing of harvested vegetables and fruits. In orange, FYM @ 20 kg/plant should be applied in the month of April-May every year.