 Ensuring that data collected Functions of Internet of Things (IoT) Application of drones in rainfed agriculture Crop spraying and fertilizer application: Drones can deliver pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers evenly across crops, reducing waste and ensuring even coverage. Once the pest attack is identified, farmers can implement targeted pest control measures, which are more efficient and environmentally friendly than blanket treatments. They use less product compared to traditional methods, cutting down on costs. Faster than manual labor or ground-based machinery, which helps farmers cover large areas quickly. Reduces human exposure to potentially harmful chemicals. Planting and seeding: Advanced drones equipped with seed- dispersing technology can perform aerial seeding, making it possible to plant crops quickly and efficiently over large areas. This is particularly useful in rainfed agriculture for timely planting coinciding with rainfall. Mapping and field surveying: Drones can create high-resolution maps of farms which can be used to track changes in crop growth over time and make informed decisions about crop management besides regular crop health monitoring and pest detection to enable timely interventions. Drones can also be used for estimating yield and assessing crop maturity to plan harvesting schedules besides identifying areas that need soil treatment or remediation for future planting. Early warning Optimised Resource Sustainability Indian Farming 85 January 2025 by IoT devices is secure and used ethically is an ongoing concern. AI&ML solutions require large, high-quality datasets for training. In regions where data collection is sparse, these models may underperform or fail to provide accurate recommendations. Reliable predictions depend on the quality and quantity of data, which can be sparse in remote areas. Smallholder farmers in rainfed regions may face difficulties accessing these advanced technologies due to costs and lack of infrastructure. Implementing AI&ML tools requires robust internet connectivity and reliable power sources, which may not be readily available in all farming areas. Many small farmers may find it difficult to afford advanced AI tools or the connectivity needed for real-time data analysis. IoT technology and its installation can be expensive, making it difficult for small farmers to adopt. Reliable internet connectivity is crucial for IoT to function effectively, but this can be a challenge in rural and remote areas. Farmers may be hesitant to adopt new technologies due to a lack of training, understanding, or concerns about the initial cost of investment. Farmers need adequate training and support to effective use of AI based systems, IoT devices and drones. Agricultural extensionists should also be trained to use AI-powered tools.