 Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 30 Kopar, Pahata and Mai for planking It is manufactured by local village carpenters with wood and weighs about 50-120 lbs. It is operated by four bullocks and two persons by connecting the implement to the yoke by means of ropes. It is used for levelling a ploughed land, breaking the clods thereby pulverizing the soil and covering the seeds after sowing of rainy season (kharif) crops (All districts in Madhya Pradesh except Sidhi and Shahdol). ICAR (1960) 31 Clod crusher - cum-plank (Mai) It is made up of bamboo, cane and jute crops, weighing 17 lbs and operated by two bullocks and one man for clod breaking. This implement is attached to the yoke by means of bamboo, cane or ropes and covers 5.33 acres/day. The average draught is 130 lbs. The width of the implement is 8 feet (Darang, Assam). ICAR (1960) 32 Mayurbhanj for crushing clods It made up of wood, used for clod crushing and pulverising the soil by hitching to the yoke with the ropes and operated by two bullocks and one man. The weight of the implement is 51.5 lbs and has work rate of 2-3 acres/day. About all the farmers in this region use this implement as a part of land preparation (Mayurbhanj, Orissa). ICAR (1960) 33 Karah for land levelling The implement is made up of shisham or sal wood and mild steel and weigh about 88 lbs. It is used for levelling uneven fields by hitching the implement to yoke with iron hooks by chains with a pair of bullock (Karnal, Haryana). ICAR (1960) 34 Karah for land levelling It is made up of iron, shisham, and Babool wood by village artisans and weighs about 40-80 lbs. It is operated by a pair of bullocks and one man by hitching to the yoke by hooks tied to the implement for levelling the fields by pushing the earth from higher levels to lower levels. The work rate of the implement is 1 acre per day and almost all the farmers in this region use the implement for land preparation (Rohtak, Haryana). ICAR (1960) 116 FARM IMPLEMENTS S. No. Title of ITK Details of ITK and rationale Reference 35 Patela for blanking This implement is made up of shisham, Babool wood and is used with a pair of bullocks and one man for planking and clod crushing after ploughing. The plank is hitched to the yoke by means of rope and covers 4 acres/day. The weight of the implement is 80 lbs and fabricated by village artisans. Almost of all the farmers in this region use this implement as a part of land preparation for different crops (Bareilly and Muradabad, Uttar Pradesh). ICAR (1960) 36 Palli (spike tooth harrow) for land preparation This implement is made of mild steel and wood by local artisan. The harrow is attached to the wheel and yoke to the pair of bullock. The average draught in sandy soil under ploughed condition is about 60-80 lbs. It covers the area of 0.5 acre/day with a depth of penetration 2-3".