25 μg/g) exceeding their safe limits for heavy metal contamination of Ganges, the major river system of north India. Atmospheric deposition: Atmospheric deposition of pollutant aerosols is rising in many parts of the world including India. Atmospheric deposition of toxic metals could affect human health and plant performance directly or through soil and food chain associated routes. Deposition of heavy metals not only leads to multifold accumulation in tomato, eggplant, spinach, amaranthus, carrot and radish but also cause significant damage to soil microbial activity in organically amended soil. Thus, deposition of heavy metals may compromise organic farming’s ability of stabilizing soil fertility and providing toxin-free produce. Livestock resources: Livestock resources have played multifaceted roles strengthening indigenous agricultural practices and generating income and livelihoods for large masses of rural dwellers in India. However, with the advent of technology in agriculture, livestock population in our country is rapidly declining. Advent of technology in agriculture coupled with inadequate feed supply is the major determinant reducing attraction of common people towards livestock production, and thus the availability of manure even to small farm. The area under natural pasture in India is rapidly declining as a result of expanding urban and agricultural areas. For maintaining soil fertility and meeting crop nutrient demands, large quantity of organic supplements are needed and accordingly, appropriate farmscale management strategies considering cultural and socio- economic environment of farmholders are required. In particular, lack of sufficient amount of vermicompost and non-availability of biofertilizers in local market further constrain organic producers. In India, most of the crop residues are removed from the fields for use as fodder and fuel. Thus, adoption of mulch farming technique as a potential tool to conserve soil organic matter content to sustain biomass/ agronomic yield is possible if cost effective alternate sources of fodder and fuel are identified and made available at large scale. Certification: Access to certification, cost involved and a time lag of three years (conversion stage) often constrain farmers especially small land holders in India from adopting organic farming. Organic produce needs certification to ensure that all synthetic inputs are prohibited and soil building approaches are followed. The certification process aims at converting the growing area to comply with requirements of standard within a period of three years. For this reason, farmers who adopt organic management need to wait for up to three years under certification procedures that requires purging of chemical residues.