 A, Anabaena azollae (MPK-SK-38); B, Nostoc muscorum; C, Westiellopsis (C100 TR5 ST3 PA-SK); D, Oscillatoria Change in soil organic carbon with addition of NPK and farmyard manure. NATURAL RESOURCE MANAGEMENT 75 Quality Control of Cyanobacterial Inoculum through Molecular Markers Seventeen cyanobacterial strains belonging to 6 genera, viz Anabaena, Nostoc, Aulosira, Tolypothrix, Westiellopsis and Fischerella were selected and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) fingerprinting was carried out to develop potential markers. The primers OPB 09, OPG 04, OPAH 02 generated markers specific for Nostoc; OPAH 02 for Westiellopsis; OPG 01 for the acid tolerant Westiellopsis-4A 2; OPF 03 for Tolypothrix tenuis. Primers OPB 09, OPAG 03 and OPG 05 could be used for Fischerella cultures. The results suggested a marked variation among the cyanobacterial strains to different primers that could be used as molecular markers for identification of the standard strains used in preparation of cyanobacterial inoculum. Survival of Rhizobia in Plough Layers The results in a network experiments have showed that in sub-tropical soils, rhizobial populations even in fields continuously cultivated with the same legume crop are very low due to prevailing high temperature/low relative humidity in summer. The studies have reinforced the need to practise legume inoculation each year for vigorously promoting the use of rhizobial and other bacterial biofertilizers by the farmers. Comparative Evaluation of Composting Methods The vermicomposts prepared from sugarcane trash, pressmud, poultry waste and soybean straw contained 30–40% higher nitrogen compared to the compost prepared by heap or pit methods. Similarly, C : N ratio of vermicompost was, generally, lower compared to the manure prepared by other methods. Sulphur Deficiency in Soils of Gujarat Widespread deficiency of S has been reported from the soils of Gujarat with 37, 13, 50% of the 6,598 soil samples analyzing as deficient, marginal and sufficient in S, respectively. Sulphur deficiency was more than 45% in soils of Panchmahal, Bharuch, Mehsana, Ahmedabad, Saberkantha and Banaskantha; 24–36% in Bhavnagar and Surendranagar and less than 20% in Rajkot, Amreli, Jamnagar and Valsad. Soils irrigated with sulphate rich water showed adequate sulphur. Recycling of Crop Residues to Correct Zinc Deficiency A 7-year study at Pusa, has indicated that application of 2.5 kg Zn/ha only to first, crop plus 50% crop residue of every crop was as much effective as 100% crop residue alone or 10 kg Zn/ha. Rice was benefited more than wheat from crop residue incorporation. Available Zn status of soil improved progressively with increasing levels of crop residues and applied Zn. Influence of Sewage Irrigation on Heavy Metal Accumulation in Soil and Plants The continuous irrigation with sewage water around Amritsar has resulted in more accumulation of Cd, Ni, Pb, Cu, Fe, Mn and Zn in surface (0–15 cm) layer by 2.76, 1.57, 1.96, 5.1, 1.08, 1.