 139 Code Title of the ITK Reference of the ITK* Names of the plants used in ITK Names in Indian languages English name Botanical name Active ingredients 138 Herbal pesticide formulation for cotton Volume 2, page 140 Neem, tobacco, Acorus calamus, asafoetida, Sapindus emarginatus Acorus: Assamese, Bengali and Hindi: bach; Gujarati and Marathi: vekhand; Kannada: baje; Malayalam: vayampa; Tamil: vashambu; Telugu: vasa. Asafoetida: Refer to ITK No. 702 Acorus: Calamus, sweet root, sweet flag Acorus: Acorus calamus Linn. Acorus: The dried rhizomes constitute the drug calamus of commerce. In Ayurvedic system of medicine, the rhizomes are considered. The powdered drug is reported to be adulterated with siliceous earth, ground root of marsh mallow (Althaea officinalis Linn.) and cereal flours. The Contents PEST AND DISEASE MANAGEMENT Geographical indications rhizomes are used in incense sticks and dhup. The rhizome may have poisonous effect under certain conditions, causing disturbed digestion and in sever cases gastro- enteritis. The powdered rhizome is used as an insecticide for the destruction of fleas, bedbugs, moths, lice etc. It is effective in killing insect pests in stored rice and is considered to be better than chemicals for this purpose as it has no residual effect. It is used at the rate of 1 kg for 45 kg paddy. The alcoholic extract inhibits the growth of certain fungi. The rhizomes, roots and leaves yield a light-brown to brownish-yellow volatile oil known as calamus oil. Habit Acorus: A semi-aquatic, perennial, aromatic herb with a creeping rhizome, growing wild and also cultivated throughout India, ascending to an altitude of 2,200 m in the Himalayas. Rhizome horizontal, jointed, somewhat vertically compressed, spongy within, 1.25-2.5cm in thickness, pale to dark-brown or occasionally orange-brown in colour; leaves grass-like or sword-shaped, long and slender; flowers small, yellow-green, in a spadix; berries green, angular, 1-3 seeded; seeds oblong. Sweet flag thrives best in marshy and moist places. It is plentiful in the marshy tracts of Kashmir and Sirmaur (Himachal Pradesh) and in Manipur and the Naga hills. It is regularly cultivated in Kortagere taluk in Karnataka. The plant is grown in clayey loams and light alluvial soils of river banks. The field is irrigated and ploughed with green-manure before planting. The growing ends or tops of the previous year's crop are planted 30 cm apart, leaving the leafy portions well above the ground. The crop is ready for harvest in about a year. The plants are dug out, rhizomes removed, and the tops kept for the next planting. The rhizomes are cut into pieces of 5-8 cm and all fibrous roots are removed. The pieces are washed thoroughly and dried in the sun. The dried material is put into rough gunny bags and rubbed to remove the leafy scales.