50 lakh per hectare for the integration of agriculture and aquaculture activities besides providing input subsidy assistance. The major thrust exerted by the Government during the past five years has commendably reduced the demand and supply gap of fish seed production in the State. This supply gap was reduced from 8.7 Crores last year to 6 Crores during the current year. Capacity building Farm advisory services, answer to farmers’ queries, organizing mass awareness programs, fish farmers’ meets, stake holders linkage through mass media, Industry-Institute meets and Exhibitions. The University and the State Fisheries Department are conducting various training program. With the objective of planning and execution of all outreach program in close coordination with other line departments / agencies such as the Dept. of Fisheries, Tamil Nadu Fisheries Development Corporation and other Government organizations, the University is taking a coordinating role. Besides, the Fisheries University established Centre for Sustainable Aquaculture (CESA) to enhance aquaculture production in the State, at Nagapattinam with the following mandates: 1. To develop and run the production centres at outstations of the University 2. To propose and establish new stations with focus on economically important species for the development of culture technology for adoption. 3. To establish and run the farms in the strategic locations and forming platforms for the research 4. To transfer the viable technologies through demonstration and training to the stakeholders 527 State Specific Strategies for Doubling Farmers Income - 2022 The marine fishermen will be taken to neighboring states for an exposure visit to the major fishing harbors, landing centres, processing plants and fish markets and training imparted to them on the best practices being followed in those places, type of crafts and gear used, fishing methods etc. Capacity building programs conducted for 1273 fisheries officials across the country to train farmers, fishers, master trainers, officers of the public-sector units concerned with fisheries development in the State To initiate Knowledge Management (KM) activities in Fisheries and Aquaculture, the Centre for Fisheries Management, Planning and Policy (CEFIMAPP), as a constituent unit of TNFU at Chennai was established. This centre carries out the role of a knowledge aggregator, and become a clearinghouse of all data/information on existing and planned research projects and initiatives relating to Fisheries and aquaculture in the Tamil Nadu.