 yy As a general recommendation, sick animal should never be slaughter for consumption. Dead animal should be safely buried or destroyed and contact with body fluid should be avoided. yy The poultry farmers are recommended, disinfect the outer premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the poultry houses and premises. yy Grazing resources for small ruminants are not much open to assess. Therefore, arrangements for stall feeding and supply of complete feed blocks should be ensured. yy Processing of wool and pashmina should be done while maintaining safe distance between the workers and proper sanitation were ensured while shearing of wool. yy For optimum benefits of vaccination deworm your animals at least 15 days before vaccination. yy Vaccinate your healthy sheep and goats with enterotoxemia vaccine with dose 2ml via sub cut route. 41 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Uttarakhand yy In Himalayans region of Uttarakhand, stall feeding should be promoted to avoid herding of animals and shepherds. yy Local poultry farmer are advised to fed concentrate mix with local available grain in ratio of 2:1 in the diet to maintain the health and growth of poultry birds during the scarcity of quality feed yy The poultry farmers are recommended disinfect the outer premises of poultry houses with 1% sodium hypochlorite and inhibit the entry of outsiders to the poultry houses and premises. yy Farmers can opt for backyard poultry farming to cater the needs of local people rather than commercial farming at this stage of economic crises. 42 ICAR KHARIF AGRO-ADVISORY FOR FARMERS Zone-II RAJASTHAN General At present along with whole nation, Rajasthan state is also adversely affected with second wave of pandemic Covid-19. During pandemic Covid-19 first wave, Agriculture was the only sector which was least affected, and this was due to dedicated efforts of farmers, frequently issue of agro-advisory for the farmers by agricultural scientists, regularly scientists remain in touch with farmers through different social media platforms like organization of webinars, Whatsapp groups information, Face book page etc. Due to pandemic Covid-19 first wave, economy of the nation also adversely affected. Now this is the urgent need of the hour that different agricultural activities as well as different agricultural operations carried out by the farmers timely, as per frequently advised by the agricultural scientists under proper Covid-19 protocol & guidelines issued by the government time to time. At present harvesting as well as threshing operation of different rabi crops completed by the farmers and very small area under vegetables and forage crops are there on their fields.