 Bio-control production Biocontrol agents like parasitoids, predators and microbial pathogens become invaluable components in agricultural IPM system in view of high level of specificity, safety and sustainability. In addition to the natural bio control operating in many crop habitats, applied bio control can bring about a successful suppression of crop pests, disease and nematodes without disruption of the ecosystem and help us to have residue free marketable commodities. The high level of human safety, stability of control and renewable nature, make them very attractive candidates for pest management in organic farming. Organic agriculture has experienced rapid worldwide growth during the last decade. According to recent surveys, more than 31 million hectares are currently under organic management in approximately 120 Countries. In Tamil Nadu, around 28,114 acres were registered under organic farming which necessitates the need for the availability of quality bio-control agents for pest management. Under natural condition, the biological control agents available are in quantities not adequate to bring down the pest damage. Hence the practical methods of mass multiplying them and using under field conditions have been investigated and exploited on a large scale in India during the last four decades. Recently a spectacular success has achieved in the state for the management of papaya mealy bug. Paracoccus marginatus using the parasitoid A. papayee. However, availability of Biocontrol agents is often realized as a tough task at farmer’s level. In this connection, Mass Production of potential parasitoids, predators and pathogens can be taken up at village level using farmers, self help groups and unemployed youth. The farmers showing interest can be trained on the mass production of bio control agents by the Scientists of Centre for Plant Protection Studies, Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore. The trained farmer/self help group/un employed youth can initiate a Mass Production unit at village level as a small-scale cottage unit. The farmers of the village can have their own bio control agents for their crop husbandry which orient towards the bio village concept. As a pilot project the interested farmers /unemployed youth in village /self help groups shall be provided with essential facilities for establishing mass production unit with funding. The farmers who have the training on the Mass Production of bio control agents can focus initially on the production egg parasitoid Trichogramma spp., larval parasitoid Bracon brevicornis and coccinellid predator Cryptolaemus montrouzieri which will be easier and have good demand for sale. After gaining experience, they can scale up the production with addition of the bio control agents. 2. Revenue expected If an operating farmer employs his family labor for 3 to 4 hrs/day and spends Rs.