 The saving in cost and time of digging by developed equipment is 59% and 86%, respectively, as compared to manual digging excluding collection and transportation. Its cost is approximately Rs 80,000. Low heat grinding machine: A low rpm grinding machine (60–70 rpm) was developed that can be operated by a pair of bullock or single camel through rotary transmission system. It consists of main frame made of MS channel, beam and ring gear with 72 teeth, pinion with 8 teeth, driving shaft and grinding unit. Driving shaft is connected to the beam for supplying the animal power. The grinding machine is installed in a circular pit and grouted with foundation bolts. A camel is hitched to the beam to supply the power to the driving shaft and studies were conducted by using a camel weighing 505 kg for grinding wheat. The draught requirement is in the range of 600 to 680 N. The temperature of the wheat flour ranged from 21 to 24°C while the temperature of wheat flour from electric grinding machine varies from 52 to 56°C. Alert system for chaff cutters: A sensor based warning system, which alerts as soon as human limbs approach a dangerous area of chaff cutter or moving blade of the chaff cutter, was developed. The system helps in generating alert once human fingers/ hand is detected beyond danger zone. PIR Sensor is fixed on the frame in such a way that it faces the feeding chute area. The PIR sensor was tested for its efficacy and effectiveness with different subjects S1, S2 and S3 and the output in terms of digital value (ADC – analog to digital conversion) 77, 83, 80 and signal in milli volt (mV) 377.59, 408.54, 393.90 was recorded. PIR sensor based alert system for chaff cutters Finger millet thresher: Threshing of finger millet is one of the critical operations. Traditionally, the threshing of finger millet is performed by three different methods, manually beating with sticks, bullock drown stone roller and tractor drown stone roller. These methods are labour intensive with low output, uneconomical resulting low quality products. Based upon requirement of threshing and pearling action, a thresher has been designed and developed by BSKKV Dapoli Centre. The equipment was tested at different throughput capacity, concave clearance and cylinder peripheral speed. The optimum values of the feed rate, concave clearance and cylinder peripheral Improvement of visibility of tractor cabin for operators The tractor cabins provide weather protection to operator against sunshine, rainfall and other harsh conditions. It also protects operator with higher noise level especially if tractor driver is working for long working hours. A tractor cabin using the criteria of optimum space layout, was developed and fabricated with the help of a local manufacturer. The cabin was evaluated for its benefit as a safeguard against health hazards like noise, dust, ambient temperature, relative humidity, etc. for which its benefits were quantified.