 Strengthening and modernizing teaching and learning facilities in agricultural universities The support under the component ‘Development and Strengthening’ continued during the year. The ongoing new civil works, viz. one auditorium and hostels were supported along with the financial assistance for modernisation and upgradation of the infrastructure pertaining to teaching and learning. Teaching facilities have been further enhanced with additional support for 38 smart classrooms. Undergraduate and postgraduate laboratories were strengthened with necessary minor/ major equipments for enhancing the practical experience of students as well as research. European red mite infestation on apple Bean mite infestation on primrose Grievance Redressal Mechanism Grievance Redressal Mechanism in education portal is a system to address and resolve complaints, disputes, or issues raised by individuals or groups. Its goal is to ensure fair and impartial resolution of grievances in a timely manner. It is an important component for ensuring accountability and transparency in ICAR- AU system. Bioefficacy studies were standardised using different acaricides for the management of pests. Education Portal ICAR (https://education.icar.gov.in) has developed a single window platform for providing vital education information/announcements/events/schedules/ e-learning resources from AUs across the country. The portal 2.0 has functional modules such as fellowship/ internship/ scholarship demands, filling demands under schemes, i.e. Development Grant, Experiential Learning, Library Strengthening, Niche Area of Excellence, North Eastern Hill Region, Schedule Caste Sub Plan, Tribal Sub Plan, Generate/Fill UC/AUC, Generate Sanction Letters, Generate Student Unique ID, University Ranking System, University Accreditation and information related to different schemes of Education Division, ICAR. Following functionalities have been strengthened along with many new functionalities during this year: PARTH (Primary Agricultural Rural Trained Human Resources): PARTH Program has been developed in education portal to monitor the blended group to be exposed to field-level project implementation along with residential training in the Agricultural Universities led by faculty coaches. Financial Management: Nodal officers of AUs can fill and generate demand of various programmes in education portal directly. The demands under schemes are presented here. Unique Faculty ID (UFID): Education portal is incorporated with Unique Faculty Identification functionality that ensures the uniqueness corresponding HUMAN RESOURCE DEVELOPMENT ICAR ANNUAL REPORT 2023-24 137 Evidence of attribution of NAHEP grants leading to project outcomes (till October, 2023) S. N Indicators Unit of measure Baseline (2016-17) Achievement 1. Increase in AU on time graduation rate % 77 95.7 2. Increase in student placement rates % 41 61.0 3. Reduced student inbreeding % 19.2 25.3 4. Reduced faculty inbreeding % 45 54.5 5.