 Vegetable Pea: Bonneville, Azad P-3, Kashi Mattar, Arkel Carrot: Pusa Kesar, Pusa Meghali, Pusa Rudhira Radish: Pusa Chetki Onion: Pusa White Flat, Pusa White Round, Pusa Red, Pusa Ratnar ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 103 Cabbage: Golden Acre, Pusa Drumhead Brinjal: Pusa purple long, Pusa purple Cluster, Pusa Purple Round, Pusa Snowball-1, Pusa Snowball-2 Recommended seed rate and nursery raising: Tomato: 400-500 g (for Hybrid 125-150 g); Chili: 500 g (200g for Hybrid); Brinjal: 500 g (200g for Hybrid); Cauliflower & Cabbage: 400-500 g; seed required for raising of seedlings in nursery for one ha area transplanting. It is advised to adopt line sowing (keep row to row distance 5-10 cm with 0.5-1.0 cm depth) method for nursery raising for vigorous seedling production. Advised to practice seed treatment with bio-pesticides like Trichoderma @ 10g/ kg seed for the management of soil borne fungal diseases, imidacloprid 70 WP @ or Thiamethoxam 30 FS @ 7-8 g/kg seed to manage the sucking insects in nursery as well as field. Farmers are advised to adopt raised bed planting system for vegetables. It provides low risk to water lodging sensitive crops, more saving of water (about 36% water saving compared to flood irrigation), more aeration for plant roots, more stability to plants and low incidence of diseases & weeds. Drip irrigation should be adopted by all vegetable growers to get higher yield with more water saving and low risk of insect-pests and diseases. Mulching: farmers are advised to adopt mulching in raised bed planting system, mulching can be done with black polyethene sheet or rice straw, wheat straw etc. which helps in 30-50% water saving, low incidence of insect-pests and diseases. Advised to adopt balanced fertilization, should be focused on micronutrient mixture like ‘Kashi Sukshmshakti’ to get higher production due to low risk of physical disorders, diseases etc. ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 104 Advised to follow Integrated Pest Management instead of chemical dependency, the following steps should be undertaken- Cultural control: deep summer ploughing, follow 2–3-year crop rotation, timely sowing, or transplanting, use of well decomposed FYM, field should be neat and clean etc. Mechanical control: Installation of light traps for collecting phototropic insects, pheromone traps for the purpose of mass collection, mating disruption and monitoring, pheromone lures are available for tomato fruit borer, brinjal shoot & fruit borer, okra shoot and fruit borer, tobacco caterpillar etc., remove disease affected plants and destroy them to check the further spread (this practice most effective in virus affected plants), erection of bird perches @ 50-60/ha to increase predation of insects by birds ICAR RABI AgRo-AdvIsoRy foR fARmeRs 105 Biological control: Focus should be given on conservation of natural enemies and ensure regular releases of egg parasitoid Trichogramma sp.