 Recently, genotypic variation in andrographolide content is reported and their interaction with water deficit stress condition at different growth phase showed mixed response to andrographolide content in A. panicuata genotypes. In spite of increased per cent active ingredient content in some genotypes, a drastic decline in biological yield resulted in lower andrographolide yield in A. panicuata. It is believed that a medicinal plant grown in semi-arid regions has elevated concentrations of active substances, i.e., secondary metabolites. Even stimulation of drought stress during the cultivation of medicinal plants is reported to impact product quality. Stomata have a great role to play in this case. Under normal conditions, the primary metabolism is the sink of electron flow. However, under stress conditions, the sink is shifted towards the secondary metabolism. Explanation for stress-induced enhancement of natural products at anatomical level of stomata can be attributed to stress condition causing closing of stomata which reduces markedly the uptake of CO2. Integration of environmental signals and endogenous hormonal stimuli regulates the opening and closing of stomata in plants. A complex network of signalling pathways controlling stomatal movements are activated in guard cells. Abscisic acid (ABA), a hormone of sesquiterpene origin is a stress hormone causing closure of the stomata. Other phytohormones, like brassinosteroids and cytokinins also playing a role in stomatal development are involved in opening and closing mechanism in stomata. Jasmonic acid and ethylene are also involved in the stomatal response to stresses. ABA interacts with jasmonic acid and nitric oxide and this interaction results in stimulation of stomatal September–October 2023 33 chlorophyll metabolism had 30 genes with 68% of the genes upregulated in a superior genotype DGS 22. Carotenoid biosynthesis [ko00906] was characterized by a total of 18 genes with 80% of the genes upregulated in genotype DGS 22. Even though having similar Fv/ Fm, higher chlorophylls and carotenoids content, major reason behind low PN was downregulation of Rubisco small subunit (rbcS) whereas an efficient xanthophyll cycle helped better protect photosystem II (PS II) through maintaining high non-photochemical quenching (NPQ) in DGS 22. Stomata being the gateway of gaseous exchange between plant and the environment have a great role to play in deciding the photosynthesis to occur. The formation of stomata is under strict genetic control and is reviewed recently. SUMMARY The impact of climate change in medicinal plants may differ than that in main food crops. This is because in a field crop, the interest is to harvest more grain yield but, in a medicinal plant, the interest is to harvest more herbage yield having more active principle secondary metabolites.