 Backyard farming with improved breed of poultry birds and goat gave additional income. Diversification of millet-based farming should be encouraged to reach targeted productivity and profitability with support from government policies. Latest knowledge, timely input support and promotion of value- addition of millets through group approach were found to be the key elements in millets value-chain development. Keywords: Crop module, Enterprise module, Farmers’ income, Livestock module, Millets M ILLETS cultivation in India covers an area of 17 million ha with an annual production of 18.66 million tonnes (Mt). They are grown in different seasons, offering food for human consumption, fodder, feed for livestock and industrial raw material. They are climate smart, versatile and highly adaptable to harsh weather conditions. Millets are one of the cheapest sources of energy which possess higher content of digestive fibres, proteins, vitamins and minerals, popularly referred as “nutri-cereals”. They play a major role in the agricultural gross domestic product (GDP) of major growing states of Maharashtra, Karnataka, Telangana, Rajasthan, Tamil Nadu, Gujarat, Madhya Pradesh, Andhra Pradesh, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, Uttarakhand and Haryana. Millets are pre-dominantly grown by small and medium farmers which account for 90% of the sorghum and pearl millet area in the country. With the threat of climate change looming large, millet crops productivity, area under cultivation and consumption are declining due to low remunerative price, low productivity, high drudgery involved in their processing, fine cereals negative perceptions as a poor’s food and policy neglect when compared to other crops. Furthermore, sorghum productivity is low as compared to other cereals due to lack of marketing facilities, buy back assurance, reliance on monsoon rains, lack of use of soil type-based high yielding varieties (HYVs), Indian Farming 73 (01): 96-99; January 2023 non-adoption of soil moisture conservation practices and improved production technologies, and rapidly changing food habits of people. Although, lots of millets production technologies have been developed by the research organizations, there exists a wide gap between the potential yield of the improved technologies and yield obtained by the farmers in their fields due to several reasons such as lack of knowledge and skill, and input support at grass-root level, etc. Therefore, promotion of millets has a large scope to mitigate the productivity risk in agriculture unlike other food crops in drought-prone and rainfed regions. Suitable intercropping of pulse crops with these millets and allied farming is a viable option towards nutritional and economical security in sustainable way.