 Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 Source: ICAR Annual Report 2022-23 July–August 2023 27 Vertical farming of orchids Vertical farming is fast becoming a popular option available to the growers to economize on the use of arable land and to realise higher yield and income per unit area. Use of this technology can result in a change in the conventional crop production technologies. Fine tuning the existing production practices for successful cultivation on the vertigrow system needs research on aspects like the growing media, nutrition, planting density, planting system, dispensing plant protection chemicals and other intercultural operations. Orchids are one of the high value cut flowers that are imported into India to meet the domestic demand. Cultivation of orchids on vertigrow systems with suitable agro-techniques has the potential to enhance the production of cut flowers per unit area, thereby meet the domestic demand and enhance the income of the growers. V ERTICAL farming system is one of the most effective alternative models to offset the constraint of space in urban and peri-urban areas. The major advantage of vertical farming is that it meets the commercial demand as it can accommodate a greater number of plants per unit floor area. Precise nutrient and water utilization, management of light, temperature and humidity requirements can increase production, reduce input costs and enhance the farmers’ income. Vertical urban farms play an important role in nature-based solutions and ecosystem services for a city. In the face of a changing climate, progressive environmental degradation, and the related loss of agricultural land, vertical farms can be seen as an alternative to traditional cultivation practices and can create a new valuable ecological, social, and economic hub in the cities and surrounding areas. Cut flowers and potted plants of orchids are widely valued in the global floriculture trade and they rank among the top ten traded plants. In spite of the conducive climatic conditions prevailing in our country, we are largely dependent on the imports from Thailand (80.6% of orchid cut flowers). The present system of orchid cultivation in India includes pot culture, cultivation on beds, in hanging pots, in coconut husk and on mounts under shade nets, polyhouses or in the open, depending on the suitability of the genus to the prevailing conditions. Orchids planted in pots are kept on flat horizontal benches. Thus, the vertical space above and below the benches remain unutilized. These growing systems involve large scale use of land which has become a scarce commodity on account of rapid urbanization. Over the last few years, multi-storied vertical farms have been established in Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, China, Korea and the United States of America for vegetable crops, strawberry, herbs and aromatic plants and a few flower crops.