 Ready to eat bakery snacks Finger millet cookies Jowar jeera cookies Jowar choco chip cookies Multi millet cookies Zinc-rich jowar cookies Jowar almond cookies Ragi chocolate cake Ragi bread Jowar bread Multi millet bread Ragi muffins Sorghum muffins 4. Ready to eat flakes Jowar thinner flakes Finger millet roller flakes Pearl millet roller flakes 5. Ready to eat puffed snacks Jowar puffs Pearl millet puffs Barnyard millet puffs 6. Ready to serve products Sorghum muesli Sorghum khakhra Millet nutri bar 7. Milled products Multi millet rawa Proso millet rice Little millet rice Kodo millet rice Barnyard millet rice Foxtail millet rice 4. Gandhiji’s vision on importance of healthy diet “It is not only the poor, whose choice is extremely limited, who are ignorant and prejudiced, but also those who can afford an excellent diet who do not feed properly, with the result that their children suffer from malnutrition and food-deficiency diseases” (Harijan, 12-4-1942). 4.1. ICAR-IIMR innovative value-chain model of nutri-cereals We developed valued added technologies (Table 1) in the form of millet-based ready-to-cook, ready-to-eat products and delicious recipes. These technologies attract the consumers towards 129 consumption of millet products and encourage the farmers to cultivate the millet varieties. Capacity building and training along with NIMSME, MANAGE, NIRDPR to various stakeholders such as state governments and independent FPO’s, NGO’s and entrepreneurs, farmers, students on value-addition components were achieved. Cooking with millets and ignition programs on business opportunities in millets are conducted once in a month. A two months capacity building is conducted on agri-entrepreneurship for pre-incubation funding up to 5 lakhs and seed support funding up to 25 lakhs per start-up under RKVY=RAFTAAR. Currently, 400 start-ups established in five states during past four years are technologically backed-up either directly (incubation) or indirectly nurtured by ICAR-IIMR. Some of these start-ups have registered GEM so as to connect with pan India millet market’s share. More than 300 start-ups are operational in promoting millet foods and millets processing. Delicious and popular recipes from millets created revived interest in cultivation and consumption. Nutri-cereals for Food and Nutritional Security: Gandhian Principles 130 5. Conclusion Our aim is to continuously develop nutritionally superior millet varieties with higher yield in the rainfed and drought-prone ecologies. We have a strong quality seed production program to ensure the availability of superior and quality seed to the farmers and source seed to the companies. We have been creating interests in cultivation and consumption of millets. An overall impact has been visible in the consumption of millets in urban and rural consumer markets due to our constant popularization of millet products.